CHAPTER I.

WHEN" HE WAS A CHILD.

Don't say anything before the boy.'

This was one of the first things he remembered.
In the confused recollections of that
early age, he seemed to have been always hearing
it : said between his mother and his sister,
afterwards between his grandparents, even by
strangers one to another, always, ' Don't say
anything before the boy.' What it was, about
which nothing was to be said, he had very little
idea, and, indeed, grew up to be a man before,
in the light of sudden revelations, he began to
put these scattered gleams together, and see
what they meant. They confused his little
VOL. i. B

soul from the beginning, throwing strange lights
and stranger shadows across his path, keeping
around him a sort of unreality, a sense that
things were not as they seemed.

His name was John in those days : certainly
John  of that there was no doubt: called
Johnnie, when people were kind, sometimes
Jack  but John he always was. He had a
faint sort of notion that it had not always been
John Sandford. But this was not clear in his
mind. It was all confused with the rest of the
broken reminiscences which concerned the time
in which everybody was so anxious that nothing
should be said before the boy.

In those days his recollection was of a little
common-place house  a house in a street  with
two parlours, one behind the other, kitchens below,
bed-rooms above, the most ordinary little
house. There was a little garden behind, in
which he played ; and in which sometimes he
was vaguely conscious of being shut out on
purpose to play, and doing so in an abortive,
unwilling way which took all the pleasure out
of it. Sometimes he only sat down and wondered,
not even pretending to amuse himself,

until a butterfly flew past and roused him, or
his little spade showed itself temptingly at hand.
At seven one is easily beguiled, whatever weight
there may be on one's spirit. But now and then
he would stop and look up at the windows,
and see some one moving indoors, and wonder
again what it was that the boy was not intended
to know.

At this period of John's career, his father was
alive  and he was fond of his father. Sometimes
papa would be very late, and would go upto
John's little bed, and bring him down in his
night-gown only half awake, seeing the candles
like stars through a mist of sleep and wonder,
till he was roused to the fullest wakefulness by
cakes and sweetmeats, and every kind of dainty
which papa had brought. John became quite
used to all the varying experiences of this midnight
incident  the reluctance to be roused up,
the glory of going downstairs, the delight of the
feast. He sat on his father's knee, with his little
bare feet wrapped in a shawl, and his eyes shining
as brightly as the candles, munching and
chattering. He got quite used to it. He used
to feel uncomfortable sometimes in the morning,

and heard it said that something was very bad
for him, and that the child's stomach, as well as
his morals, would be spoiled. Johnnie knew as
little about his stomach as about his morals. And
he had a way of being well which greatly interfered
with all these prognostications. He was
a very sturdy little boy.

He had a consciousness through all these
scenes of his mother's face, very pale, without
any smile in it, showing serious, like the moon,
among those lights. She gave him no cake or
oranges, but it was she who wrapped up his
feet in the shawl, and took care of him in the
morning when his little head sometimes ached.
Papa was never visible in the morning. Johnnie
was sometimes a little afraid of him, though he
was so jolly in these mid-night visits. The boy
was frightened when he was being carried downstairs,
and clung very close, though he did not
say anything about his fears. Papa would lurch
sometimes on those occasions, like the steamboat
on which John once had gone to sea. The
memory of the lighted table, the father who
always made a noise, laughing, talking, sometimes
singing, always so fond of his little boy ;

but mamma dreadfully quiet, scarcely saving
anything, and the lights of the candles, not at
all like the candles we have now-a-days, but
big, and shining like stars, never faded from his
memory, even when he had grown a man.

In the day-time, it was rather dull. Susie
was five years older than he, going on for twelve,
and knowing everything. She got to saying,
1 Go away, child,' when he asked her to come
and play. As he remembered her, she never
played, but was always at her needlework or
something, almost worse than mamma  and there
would be long conversations between those two
in the winter's afternoon, while he was playing at
coach and horses, made with chairs, in the other
room, the back parlour, which was the place
where they had their meals. Sometimes when
he got tired of the obstinacy of Dobbin, who
was the big mahogany arm-chair, and who would
have his own way, and jibbed abominably, he
would catch a glimpse through the half-opened
folding-doors of those two over the fire. They
always spoke very low, and sometimes cried 
and, if he came a little near, would give each
other a frightened look and say, ' Not a word

before the boy.' Johnnie's ears got very quick
to those words  he heard them when they were
whispered, and sometimes he heard them
through his sleep. Could they be talking of
anything naughty, or what was it so necessary
that he must not know %

There came a time at last when all this confused
mystery came to a climax. There were
hasty comings and goings, men at the door
whose heavy loud knockings filled the house
with dismay, stealthy entrances in the dark:
for Johnnie a succession of troubled dreams, of
figures flitting into his room in the middle of
night, but never papa in the old jovial way to
carry him down to the parlour with its staring
candles. No one thought of such indulgences
now. If they were wrong, they were all over.
When he awoke he saw,half awake and half dreaming,
sometimes his father, though he had been
told he was away, sometimes his mother ; other
strange visitors flitting like ghosts, all confusion
and disorder, the night turned into day. He
was himself kept in corners in the daylight, or
sent into the garden to play, or shut up in the
back parlour with his toys. It seemed to

Johnnie that they must think he wanted nothing
but those toys, and never could understand
that to play without any companions, without
any wish for playing, was impossible ; but he was
a dutiful child, and tried to do what he was told.
It was at this strange and uncomfortable period
that he learned how nice it is to have a book,
after you have exhausted all your solitary inventions
and played at everything you know. The
fascination of the books; however, added to the
confusion of everything. Johnnie mixed Robinson
Crusoe with the agitating phantasmagoria of
his little life. He thought that perhaps it was
from the savages his father was hiding,  for he
was sure that it was his father he saw in those
visions of the night, though every one said he
had gone away. Then there came a lull in the
agitation, and silence fell upon the house.
Mamma and Susie cried a great deal, and were
together more than ever, but Johnnie's dreams
stopped, and he saw no more in the night
through his half-closed eyes the flitting figures
and moving lights.

Then there came a strange scene very clearly
painted upon his memory, though it was not for

many years after that he was able to piece it in to
his life. Johnnie had been left alone in the
house with the maid, the only servant the family
had, who was a simple-minded country woman,
and kind to the child, though not perhaps in a
very judicious way. She was kind in the way
of giving him sweetmeats and pieces of cake,
and the remains of dainty dishes which upstairs
were not supposed to be wholesome for Johnnie,
{ as if the dear child shouldn't have everything of
the best,' Betty said. On this day Betty was full
of excitement, not capable of staying still in one
place, she herself told him. She gave him his dinner,
which he had to eat all by himself, a singular but
not on the whole a disagreeable ceremony, since
Betty was about all the time, very anxious that
he should eat, and amusing him with stories.

Master Johnnie,' she said, when the meal
was over, ' it do be very dull staying in the
house, with nothing at all to do. Missus won't
be back till late at night. I know she can't,
poor dear. It would be more cheerful if you
and me went out for a walk.'

But how could you leave the house, Betty,
all alone by itself?' said the little boy.

It won't run away, never fear, nor nobody
couldn't steal the tables and chairs ; and there
ain't nothing else left to steal, more's the pity,'
said Betty.  We'll go afore it's dark, and it'll
cheer us up a bit : for I can't sit still, not me,
more than if I was one of the family : though
you don't know nothing about that, you poor
little darling', Lord bless you.'

Betty, it is to be feared, would have told
him readily enough, but the child was so used
to hearing that he must not be told that he
asked no questions. To go out, however,
was certainly more cheerful than to pass
another wintry afternoon in the back parlour
without seeing anyone but Betsy. He allowed
himself to be buttoned up in his little thick
blue topcoat of pilot cloth, which made him
as broad as he was long, and to have his
comforter wound round his neck, though he did
not much like that ; and then they sailed forth,
Betsy putting in her pocket the great key of the
house door. She did not talk much, being
occupied profoundly with interests of her own,
of which Johnnie knew nothing, but she led him
along past lines of cheerful shops all shining

with Christmas presents : for Christmas was coming
on, and there was an unusual traffic in the
toy shops and the book shops, and all the places
where pleasant things for Christmas were.
Johnnie stopped and gazed, dragging at her hand,
and wondered if any of the picture-books would
fall to his share. His mother did not buy many
pleasant things for him ; but if papa came back
he never forgot Johnnie ; he thought to himself
that surely for Christmas papa would come back
unless indeed the savages had got him. Buta
certain big policeman strolled by, while this
thought passed through the child's mind, and,
even at seven years old, one cannot feel that
savages are ineffectual creatures where such
policemen are. But the thought of papa gave
Johnnie a sense of mystery and alarm, since his
father had disappeared in the day-time, only
to be seen fitfully through half-shut eyes at
night.

As the afternoon wore on, and the lights were
lighted in all the shop windows, Johnnie thought
this better than ever ; but Betty was no longer
disposed to let him gaze. She said it was time
to go home, and then led him away through

little dark and dingy streets which, he did not
know, and which tired him both in his little legs
and in his mind. At last they came to a row of
houses which ran along one side of a street, the
other side of which was occupied by a large and
lofty building. Here Betty paused a moment
pondering.

Master Johnnie,' she said at last, * if you'll
be a good boy and don't say a word to anyone,
I'll take you to see the most wonderful place you
ever saw, something which you will never, never
forget all your life.'

What is it, Betty V asked Johnnie.

I Oh, you would not understand if I was to tell
you its name. But it's something that you will
always remember, and be glad you went there.
But you must never, never tell ; for if you were
to tell anyone your mamma would be angry, and
it's not known what she would do to me.'

I I will never tell,' said Johnnie, upon which
Betty gave him a kiss and called him ' a poor
darling', as knew nothing,' and knocked at the
door before which they were standing, and took
him up a long, long narrow stair. Johnnie saw
nothing of any importance when he was taken

into a little ordinary room at the top, where two
women were sitting beside a little fire, where a
kettle was boiling and the table set all ready
for tea.

This is the poor little boy,' Betty said, after
a while : and both the women looked at him,
and patted him on the head, and said, * Poor
little gentleman,' and that he must have his
tea first. He did not mind having his tea,
for he was tired with his walk, and the bread
and butter they gave him was sprinkled thinly
over with little sweetmeats, very little tiny
things, red and white, which were quite new to
Johnnie. He was used to jam and honey and
other things of this kind, but to eat bread and
butter sprinkled with sugar-plums was quite a
novelty. While he was busy in this agreeable
way, one of the women put out the candles and
drew up the blind from the window. And then
Johnnie saw the wonderful thing which he was
never to forget all his life.

Out of the little dark room there was a view
into a great hall, lighted up and crammed full of
people all sitting round and round in endless
lines. Even in church he had never seen so many

people together before. Some were seated in red
dresses quite high up where everybody could see
them, but the others were quite like people at
church. It was very strange to see all that
assembly, busy about something, sitting in rows
and looking at each other, and not a word to be
heard. Johnnie gazed and eat his bread and
butter with the sugar-plums, and was not quite
sure w r which was the most wonderful.

1 What are they doing V he asked Betty. But
Betty only put her arms round him and began
to sob and cry.

Oh, bless the child, Lord bless the child ! Oh
listen to him, the little innocent.'

He did not like to be held to Betty's breast,
nor to be wept over in that unpleasant way.
He shook himself free, and said to the other
women,

Will you tell me ? What are they doing all
staring at each other.'

1 It's a trial, my poor dear little gentleman.
They are trying a man for his life.'

1 Xo, no, not for his life : though it would have
been for his life a little time ago,' said the other.

Johnnie did not know what it meant to try a

man for his life; but he accepted the description,
as a child often does, without further inquiry
and stood and looked at it wondering. But it
did not seem to him the extraordinary thing
that Betty had said it was, and presently he
began to pull at her skirts, and asked to go
home.

That was a very dismal night for Johnnie. They
got home, and his things were taken off, and he
returned to his toys. To see him playing in his
forlorn way, all alone, with his little serious face
was too much for Betty. But he got very tired
of her caresses and attempts at consolation.
The night passed on, and bed-time came, but his
mother never came home. He sat and listened
for the steps coming along the street, and dozed
and woke up again, and felt as if all the world
was empty round him, and only he and Betty
left. He began to cry, but he felt as if he dared
not make a noise, and sat with his little head in
his hands trying to keep quiet, though now and
then breaking out into sobs. * Oh, where was
mamma ? Why didn't she come % Where was
Susie ? What had happened that they did not
come home V And then the picture-books in the

shop windows, and the great place full of people,
who sat all silent under the light in those rows
and rows of seats, and the little sugar-plums upon
the bread and butter, all circled confusedly in
his mind. And in the end he fell asleep, and
was earned up to bed by Betty, and undressed
without knowing it ; but yet even in his sleep
seemed to know and feel that there was nobody
in the house but Betty and him. Nobody but
the servant and the little boy ! What a strange,
miserable thing in a house that it should be left
alone with only the servant and the little boy.

Johnnie woke up suddenly out of his confused
and broken sleep. His little bed was in the
dressing-room that opened into his mother's bedroom.
He woke to hear a sound of crying and
miserable voices, low and interrupted with tears.
There was a light in his mother's room, and he
could see Susie moving about, taking off her
outdoor dress, while mamma lay back in the
easy-chair Jbef ore the little fire, as if she had been
taken ill. She lay there as if she could not
move, till a sudden quick pang sprang up in
the little boy's heart, and a coldness as of ice
crept over him, even in the warmth of his little

bed. Could mamma, too, be going to die ?
Mamma too ? He did not know at all what he
meant, and yet he knew that something had
happened which was more miserable than anything
that ever had been before. He lay still, and
gazed out from between the bars of his crib, and
listened to the crying. That grown-up people
should cry was dreadful to him. He wanted
to get up and creep to his mother's knee, and so
at least belong to them, rather than be left out in
this dreadful solitude : but he knew that if he did
this they would immediately stop their talking,
and tell each other that nothing must be said
before the boy. So all that he could do was to lie
still, and cry too, the silent tears dropping upon
his little pillow, the sound of the low voices,
too low to be intelligible, but not to betray the
wretchedness that was in them, coming to him
like sounds in a dream. Oh what a different
scene from the other awaking, when, half peevish,
half frightened out of his sleep, he had opened his
eyes to the dazzling of the candle, and seen papa's
laughing face bending over his ; and then to
be carried off, with his little bare feet in papa's
hands to keep them warm, even though there

might be a lurching like the steamboat, which
frightened yet made him laugh. And then the
cakes, the oranges, the sip of papa's wine, and,
best of all, papa's laugh, and his merry face.
That little vision out of the past got confused
by-and-by with the crying and the low talk
in the next room, and then with the people
sitting in the court, and the sugar-plums on the
bread and butter, till Johnnie, in a great
bewilderment of images, not knowing which
was which, at last out of that chaos once more
fell asleep.

VOL. l.

CHAPTER II.

WHEN HE WAS A CHILD (CONTINUED).

It was not very long after this, but how long
his memory could not clearly make out, when
Johnnie was sent to the country to his grandfather
and grandmother, who lived in a village
some twenty miles away. He did not recollect
being told about it, or at all prepared for his
journey, but only that one morning the old
people came in, driving in an old-fashioned little
light cart, called a shandy in the neighbourhood,
and took him away. They were old people who
were ' retired,' living in the village in a nice
little house of their own, without any particular
occupation. The old lady kept poultry, and
the old gentleman read the newspapers, and
they were very comfortable and happy, with
fresh country complexions, and kind country

ways. Grandmamma wore a little brown front
with little curls under her cap, which had been
the fashion in her day. But her husband looked
much handsomer in his own white hair. They
were neither of them very like Johnnie's mother,
who was tall and quiet and very serious, while
the old people were full of cheerfulness and
jokes. But there were no jokes on the day
when they came to carry off Johnnie. They
came in, and kissed their daughter with scarcely
a word, and then the old gentleman sat down ina
chair by the fire, with a great many curves
about his eyes, and wrinkles in his forehead 
which had never been seen there before  while
his wife dropped down upon the sofa and began
to cry, saying,

Oh that we should have lived to see this
day !' rocking herself backwards and forwards in
dreadful distress.

1 Don't cry, grand mamma,' said Johnnie,
stealing to her side, and stroking with his hands
to console her the skirts of her thick silk gown.
Susie went to the other side, and put her arm
round the old lady, and said the same thing.

Don't cry, grand mamma !' but Susie knew all

about the trouble, whatever it was. She was
not like her little brother, only unhappy and
perplexed to see the grown-up people cry.

Run away, dear, and play,' his mother said ;
and the poor little boy obeyed, very forlorn and
miserable to be always sent away. But he only
went to the back parlour, where his box of
bricks was standing on the floor, and where he
began to build a house, oh, so seriously, as if it
were a matter of life and death. The folding-doors
were half open, and he still could see
grand mamma cryiogand the wrinkles on grand-papa's
face, and hear the murmur of the talk,
very serious, and broken now and then with a
sob. They were in great trouble  that Johnnie
could easily make out : and by this time he was
as sure, as if some one had told him all about it,
that their trouble had something to do with his
father  his merry laughing father, who spoilt
him so  who was never now to be seen even in
the middle of the night through half shut eyes.
The conversation that went on was not much.
Grandpa for his part only sat and stared
before him, and occasionally shook his head, and
drew his brows together, as if it was somebody's

fault ; while grand mamma cried and sometimes
exclaimed,

1 Oh, how could he do it ? Had he no thought
of you or the children, or how dreadfully you
would feel it?'

If he did not think of himself, mother, how
should he think of me,' said Johnnie's mother,
with a sort of stern smile. ' He knew better
than anyone what the penalty was.'

He was a fool, always a fool,' said grandpa,
hastily.

1 Oh,' said grand mamma, ' when he was
young, he was very dear! There never was
anyone nicer than he was  instead of thinking
harm of his mother-in-law, as so many foolish
fellows do '

1 Hush, mother ! don't speak so that the child
can understand. I don't want him to know.'

1 How can you keep it from him ? It isn't possible.
Why, everybody knows, even the people
at the turnpike. They looked at your father
and me so pitifully as we came through.'

That for their pity !' said grandpa, with an
angry snap of his fingers, and the colour mounted
up to the very edge of his white hair.

Johnnie, peeping timidly out between the legs
of the table, thought his mother, too, was very
angry with grand mamma. She was standing in
the middle of the room, looking very tall and-grand,
enough to strike terror into any little
shrinking breast, whether it belonged to a child
of seven or to a man of seventy.

She said : * Mother ! Pity is what I cannot
bear. Let them crush us if they like. Let them
think us as bad as  but pity, never ! That I
cannot bear.*

4 Oh, my dear,' said grand mamma, ' try to be
softened and not hardened by this great trouble

These were things that Johnnie heard partially.
Sometimes a few words would get lost as
the corner of the table-cover fell down between
him and the other parlour, like a curtain in a
theatre, which was what happened from time to
time : and there would be long pauses in which
nothing at all was said, but only a little sob from
grand mamma, or the thick, t chick of inarticulate
comment which the old man made, or the mother
or Susie moving across the room. There is nothing
more terrible than those long pauses
in which those who have come to console the

Sufferers can find nothing to say, when words
are impossible, and the silence of the little company,
which cannot be broken save on one subject,
becomes more intolerable than if no consolation
had been attempted at all.

Then they had a sort of dreary dinner, to prepare
for which Johnnie and his bricks had to be
removed into a corner. They all sat down
round the table, grandpa still giving a thick,
thick from time to time and grandmamma
stopping in the midst of a mouthful to dry
her eyes. Johnnie himself was hungry, but it
was difficult to eat when everybody looked so
miserable, and when he asked for a little more
they all looked at him as if he had said something
wrong.

Poor child, he had always a good appetite,
bless him,' grand mamma said, laying down her
knife and fork with a little sob. ' What a good
thing it is that nothing matters very much at his
age.'

Johnnie did not say that it mattered very much
indeed  he had no words to use ; but his little
heart throbbed up into his throat, and he could
not eat a morsel of his second help. Oh, if anyone

had known how forlorn that little heart
was, groping among the mysteries with which
he was surrounded, which he could not understand
! All he could do was to gaze at the
grown-up people who were so hard upon him,
who did not understand him any more than he
understood them. Grandpa, though he went
on with his thick, thick at intervals, made a
tolerable meal, and thought he could taste
a bit of cheese after all the rest had
done.

Meat has no savour to people in trouble he
said, * but sometimes you can taste a bit of
cheese when you can take nothing else.'

All the same, however, he made a very good
meal.

Some time after this it was suddenly intimated
to Johnnie that he was going ' back ' with the
old people.

1 Grandpa and grand mamma are going to
take you with them,' Susie said, seeking him
out in the back parlour where he had relinquished
the bricks and taken to Robinson
Crusoe, and began again to wonder whether, in
spite of the placid policeman, the savages, after

all, might not have something to do with the
disappearance of papa.

Oh, what a lucky boy you are, Jack ! You
are going to drive back between them in the
shandy, and stay there for a change  for
mamma thinks you are not looking very well.
Oh, you lucky little boy !'

Though Susie said this as if she envied
him, Johnnie could see that in her mind she
thought it was a good thing that he should be
going away. And his poor little heart, which
was so silent, gave a great throb and cry,
1 Why do you want to send me away?'

'It is because mamma thinks you are so pale 
and that a change will do you good,' said Susie.
She said it as if it were a lesson she had learnt,
repeating the same words. * You are to make
haste and get on your things, and not keep
them waiting. You can take your book with
you if you like,' she said. And then Betty came
in with the little blue pilot cloth topcoat which
was so thick and warm, and the comforter, and
a fur cap which papa had bought for Johnnie in
old days when he used to take the little boy out
for drives. The sight of this was too much for

the child. He rushed out to the front hall
where mamma was standing watching her
mother mount into the shandy, and caught hold
of her by the skirts of her dress.

I want papa ; I want papa V said Johnnie,
flinging himself upon his mother. The cry was
so piercing that it went out into the street
where old Mrs. Sandford was arranging her
wraps round her, and making a warm seat between
herself and her husband for the child.

'Thick thick!' said the old gentleman,
standing on the pavement before the open door.
Mamma caught Johnnie in her arms and gave
him a hug which was almost fierce, to solace
him as well as to take good-bye of him, and then
she lifted him up beside his grandmother and
tucked him in.

Mind you are a good boy, and don't trouble
granny,' she said, but took no notice of his crying
or of the trouble on his little face. Looking
back as they drove away he could see her standing,
very pale in her black dress, and Susie by
her, who was waving her hand, and calling out
good-bye. Betty stood behind them, crying,
but neither his mother nor his sister seemed to

be sorry to see him go away. He looked back
at them with a dreadful choking in his throat,
and for years after saw it all like a picture  the
two figures in the doorway and Betty crying
behind. Susie smiled and waved her hand, but
his mother neither wept nor smiled. She was
all black and white, like a woman cut out of
marble, as though nothing could move her more.
And that was the last that Johnnie saw of them
for years.

The house to which he went at first was not
the place in which he grew up : for the grandparents,
it seemed, were on the eve of a removal.
Everything was new in the new house to which
they took him, and which was a very neat
little red brick house, with green shutters, like a
house in a story book. It stood in the village
street, with a little garden full of lilac and rosebushes
in front, and a large garden with everything
in it, from lilies to cabbages, behind. Nothing
could exceed the comfort, or the neatness,
or the quiet of this little place. ' There was
only one servant, as at home ; but probably she
was a better servant than Betty : and there was
a gardener besides, who did a great many odd

jobs in the house, and now and then took
Johnnie out with him upon wonderful expeditions
to the moor which lay just outside the last
houses of the village. It was the most wonderful
moor that ever was seen, sometimes golden
with gorse, sometimes purple with heather, with
wild little black pools in it, which looked as if
they went down into the very heart of the earth,
and here and there a little ragged tree, which
the wind had blown into corners and elbows,
and which stood and struggled for bare life with
every storm that raged. The wind blew on the
moor so fresh and keen that Johnnie's cheeks
got to be two roses, and his little body
strengthened and lengthened, and he grew into
a strong and likely lad without any fancies or
delicacies, or anything at all out of the way
about him. The grandparents were more kind
than words could say; that is they were not
kind, but only loved the child with all their
hearts, which is the one thing in the world
that is better than kindness. He did nothing
but play for a year or two, and then he had
lessons from the curate, and learned a great
deal, and was trained up in all the duties which

can be required from a boy. There could not
have been a happier child. He was the king of
the little house, and of the two old people's
hearts, and of Sarah the maid, and Benjamin
the gardener, and of the donkey and cart. And
in the village itself he was quite a considerable
person, ranking next after the rector's boys
and above the doctor's son, who was delicate and
spoilt.

This change of life worked a great change in
every way in the boy. He was removed altogether
from his own childish beginnings and
all those scenes which had impressed themselves
on his mind in the mists of early recollection.
He had become the son of his grandfather and
grandmother, who were old, and comfortable,
and quiet, and never stepped beyond their
routine or did differently to-day from what they
had done yesterday. The vision of his father
had gone altogether from his life, and his mother
was as much or even more lost, for her aspect
was completely changed to him. She had ceased
to be his mother and become Emily, which
was the name by which he always heard her
called, a person found fault with sometimes, discussed

and criticised, about whom there were
shaking of the head between the grandparents,
complaints that she liked her own will, and
would have her own way.

By dint of hearing her spoken of like this for
years, and hearing very little of her in any
other way, John came to have a sort of impression
that she was only an elder sister, whom
lie too might call Emily, who had been very
long away from home, and who had departed
from all their traditions. In his mind he came
to feel himself a sort of little uncle to Susie,
which, of course, being grand mamma's son, was
what he would naturally be. He fell into all
the old people's ways of thinking, feeling sorry
in a disapproving way that Emily and her
daughter never came to see them, yet feeling
this more as a fault in them than as anything
that told upon himself. Children and old people
are more near to each other than the old and
the middle-aged, and Johnnie made a far better
child than Emily, who herself was older than
her father and mother. He redressed the balance,
and by slipping, as it were, a generation, set
them right again in their parental place. But

the effect upon him was very confusing.

Emily did not write very often, and scarcely
at all to the boy. When she did send him a
letter to himself at Christmas, or on his birthday,
it was without any appreciation of the fact that
Johnnie had grown into John, and was no
longer a child : and her letters to the old people
were bulletins of life rather than familiar letters.
She told them what she was doing, and how
Susie was getting on, and what sort of weather
it was  hot or cold  and that she was quite well
in health, or else had little ailments, of which she
hoped soon to be well : but there was nothing in
these epistles to interest the boy. As a matter of
fact he was much disposed in his heart to the conclusion
that Emily was not sympathetic, and was
fond of having her own way. His way was that
of the elder world, and was quite different from
hers: and for years he had ceased to wonder why
it was that the letters were addressed to Mrs.
Sandford, and that he too bore that name.

He was so little when all these changes
happened that he was very hazy in his mind
about the circumstances, and very far from clear
that he had ever been anything but John Sandford.

As a matter of fact tie never discussed
this matter with himself. One does not naturally
enter into discussions about one's self. Even
the most strained of circumstances appear to us
all quite simple and easy when they concern
ourselves. He was quite natural, everything
about him was quite natural  he felt no mystery
in his own being or surroundings : and  whatever
might have been said or felt at the time
when he came to his grandfather's  neither did
anyone else. Indeed, in the new place where
they had settled, nobody knew anything of Mr.
Sandford's daughter, nor of their previous
history at all.

And yet at the bottom of his heart John had
forgotten nothing. Those far distant scenes
were to him like a dream, like a play he had seen
some time (though he had never been at the
theatre in his life), like a story that had been
told him, but far more vivid than any story. He
recollected those waking in the middle of the
night, and the dazzling of the candle in his eyes,
and his father's face and ho w he was carried down
to the parlour in his night-gown, and the table
in all the disorder of supper, with oranges and

cakes, and a little wine out of his father's glass
and of the other face on the other side of the
fire which would look on disapproving, and
as soon as possible bear him off again into
the darkness of bed. The look on that other
face was quite what he would have expected
from Emily, that grown-up uncomfortable child
of whom the grandparents disapproved.

The other scenes of the drama came also
fitfully to John's mind from time to time  the
back parlour where he was sent to play with his
bricks, and then Robinson Crusoe, and the
trouble in his mind lest the savages should have
got papa : and then that strange silent spectacle
of the lighted court with the judges sitting (ashe
knew now) and the little sugar-plums
sprinkled upon the bread and butter ; and then
the old people coming to dinner, and grand-mamma
crying and grandfather with his ' t chick,
thick,' and the shandy in which he was
carried away, with Betty crying and Susie
waving her hand, and mamma neither smiling
nor weeping (always so like Emily !) at the open
door; and the impression through everything
that nothing was to be said before the boy.

VOL. I. D

All this was as distinct in his mind as it ever had
been  which perhaps was not saying much : for
all was misty with childhood, imperfect in outline,
running into such wildernesses of ignorance
on either side ; but yet so very certain, never
forgotten, always at the same point. His mind
varied upon matters of every day, and he got
to see what happened last year in a different
light after passing through the experiences of
this year. But nothing changed for him those
early scenes, they were beyond the action of
experience. They were the same to him at
sixteen as they had been when they happened
misty, incomprehensible, yet quite certain and
true.

He was the son of his grandparents, as has
been said. He was like a boy who had never
had either father or mother when he set out upon
the active way of his life. And how he came to
work in that early drama of the beginning, withall
the later incidents, and how he was affected
by it for good and evil, has now to be shown
in the story of John Sandford, who was his
father's son, though he knew nothing of him,
and did not even bear his name.

CHAPTER III.

HOW HE WAS TO BEGIN LIFE.

They were all seated one evening in the parlour
round the fire. The house of the Sandfords was
like many other old-fashioned middle-class
houses. The dining-room was the principal
room in it. They would have thought it very
pretentious and as if they were setting up for a
gentility to which they laid no claim had they
called their other sitting-room a drawing-room.
The rector might do so who belonged distinctly
to the county ; but the Sandfords called their
sitting-room the parlour, without even knowing
what a pretty old-fashioned word that is, and
how it is coming into fashion again. Old Mr.
Sandford's armchair stood on one side of the fire,
and his wife's on the other. He had a stand for
the candle near him, and she had a little table.

d2

Otherwise the room was furnished according to
its epoch, with a round table in the centre,
and chairs set round the walls. On grand-mamma's
little table was her knitting, a basket
with some needle-work, and a book. She read
all through a book in a conscientious yet leisurely
way, doing a bit of needle-work, when the
light was good, and knitting when her eyes
were tired. In this way she was always occupied
and yet never fatigued by being busy too long
at one thing. The knitting was done with
large pins and thick wool. It was easy work.
It resulted in comforters, mufflers, and other little
things that were useful at Christmas, and made
the school-children and the old people in the
village happy  or as nearly happy as anyone is
ever made by presents of warm woollen things
to keep out the cold.

John sat at the table between the old people.
He had the advantage of the lamp and warmest
place. They liked to have him there, and he
had learned to do all his work in that warm
family centre, with their silent society, surrounded
by their love. The old people did not
talk very much at any time, and, when they

thought it was for the advantage of John and
his work, were capable of sitting all the evening
in a silent blessedness making little signs to each
other across him, but never speaking lest they
should disturb him. They said at other times, with
secret delight, that their John never wanted to
retire into any study, but did his work, bless
him, in the parlour, and never found them in his
way.

On this particular evening it could scarcely be
said that he was at work ; his lessons were all
prepared, and ready for next day : and John
was reading for his own pleasure in that delightful
calm of feeling which results from the sense
of duty performed. It is not always in later hie
that one is privileged to enjoy this conscious
virtue even when one's work is fully accomplished,
but at fifteen the case is different  and,
as it happened, among the books on the table,
the boy had brought down inadvertently the old
copy of Robinson Crusoe which had been so dear
to him in his childhood, and which was associated
with so many of the confused reminiscences
of that long departed past. He had taken it,
and was looking at it, before the old people

opened the conversation which for the whole
evening had been in their thoughts. John
scarcely felt it was necessary to open that book.
He knew not only what was in it, but a great
many things that were not in it, things which it
suggested before it was opened, the strange
visions of the time through which papa's image
flitted, dim now but still well remembered. He
was thinking of all this with a vagueness in
which there was no pain. There never indeed
had been any pain, only a confused sense of so
many things which he could not understand.
He might have heard, if he had taken any
notice, that the old people were simultaneously
clearing their throats, with little coughs and
hems  partly of preparation, partly to have him
see that they were about to speak, and call his
attention. But John did not take any notice,
being fully absorbed with his own recollections
and interests. Anyone who could have seen
them would have been amused to remark how
the grandfather and grandmother looked at each
other, and made little signs egging each other
up to begin, across the unconscious boy who
took no notice at all.

It was Mrs. Sandford who spoke the first after
all this pantomime. She gave her husband an
upbraiding look as much as to say that he always
pushed her to the front when anything disagreeable
had to be done. Not that it was in reality
anything disagreeable, but only exciting and
full of new possibilities. She laid down her large
pins with the knitting upon her lap, and cleared
her throat finally, and said, * John.'

It had to be repeated a second time in a
slightly raised voice, and with a touch of her
hand upon his arm before he paid any attention.
Then the boy roused up suddenly, gave himself
a little shake, pushed his ' Robinson Crusoe '
away from him on the table, and turning round,
said, briskly, * Yes, grand mamma,' coming back
in a moment out of his dreams.

We want to speak to you, my dear the old
lady said. She put her hand on his arm again,
and patted it softly. He sat, as a matter of
fact, on his grandmother's side, not exactly in
the middle ; nearer to her than to the old gentleman,
who had long observed the circumstance
not without a little kind of jealousy, but had
never taken any notice.

Mrs. Sandford was conscious of it, and secretly
proud ; but you may be sure she took no notice,
and would no doubt have shown a little surprise
had it been remarked.

We want to speak to you,' she said. ' John,
you are growing a great boy.'

Seventeen last birthday,' said the grandfather.
I had been working for myself a couple of
years when I was his age.'

'Well, my dear, but it is not John's fault.
You have always said you regretted having so
little schooling.'

The question is,' said old Mr. Sandford,
striking his hand against the arm of his chair,
1 whether the education he has been getting
counts like schooling. For, you see, he has
never been at school. I had my doubts on that
subject all along.'

Oh, yes, oh, yes, my dear,' said the old lady.
To be taught by a good man that knows a
great deal, like our curate, that is better, surely,
than being exposed to meet with bad boys and
bad influences in a strange place.'

John listened to this conversation, turning his
face from one to the other. He was quite used

to be discussed so, and thought it the natural
course of affairs  but here it seemed to him
that he might intervene in his own person.

1 Grandpa,' he said, l Mr. Cattley says Elle
and I construe much better than Dick and
Percy, though they have been so many years at
school.'

Does he really, John !' said Mrs. Sandford,
and her old eyes got wet directly with pleasure ;
but grandpa still shook his head.

I don't know much about construing,' he
said ; ' I never had time to study any outlandish
tongues, but you and Dick, as you call him, and
Percy are very different ; one's going to the
army and one to Oxford, as I hear ; but as for

you, my Johnny-boy ' Here Mr. Sandford

winked his eyes, too ; for, though he had begun
with the intention of taking his John down a
little, and showing him that he was far from
being so fine a gentleman as he thought  when
it came to the point, the old grandfather did
not himself like the idea, and felt that his John
was much more of a gentleman than any other
boy he knew.

Yes, grandfather,' said John, tranquilly. ' I

know I'm not like the others. I've got to make
my own way

Yes ; and you've got to make it without a
family behind you, and friends to push you on
as those young Spencers have  though you've
more in you than both of them put together,'
cried grandpa, with a little outburst of feeling
which John did not at all understand.

John smiled. He was used to hearing that
he was a fine fellow, and better than the others,
and he took it as a peculiarity of the doting
affection these old people had for him, and
excused it good-naturedly on that ground : but
he knew very well it was not true.

i The only thing that is wanting to Percy and
Dick is that they're not your boys, grandfather,"
said John  * yours and grand mamma's  you
would know then that they are quite as good
as me  or better, perhaps,' he added, candidly,
feeling that so far as this went there might be
reason for a doubt.

You will never make us see that,' said Mrs.
Sandford ; * but I love the boys, bless them, for
they've always been like brothers to you. And
it is saying a deal for the rector and all of them

that, though we are not just in then position,
they have never hindered it nor made any
difference, which they might have done ; dear
me, oh ! yes, they might have done it, and
nobody blamed them '

My dear,' said the old man, in a tone of
warning.

Oh ! yes, yes cried grand mamma. * I know ;

I know ' And she cried a little, and gave

a stolen look at John such as he had caught
many a day without ever understanding the
meaning of it  a look in which there was
something like pity, compassion, and indignation
as well as love, as if somebody had
wronged him deeply, though he did not know
it, and she felt that nothing could ever be too
good for him, too tender to make up for it 
and yet that nothing ever would wipe out that
wrong. All this in one glance is, perhaps, too
much to believe in ; but John saw it all confusedly,
wondering, and not knowing what it
could mean.

Mr. Sandford cleared his throat again, and then
it was he who began.

John,' he said, * we think, and so does your

mother think, that it is time to speak to you
about what you are going to do '

1 Yes, grandfather,' said John. He looked up
with a little eagerness, as if he were quite ready
and prepared, which, while it made matters
much easier, gave the old people a little chill
at the same time, as if the boy had been wanting
to get away.

There is no hurry about it,' the old gentleman
said, closing up a little and drawing back
into his seat.

But, grandfather,' said John, * I've been
thinking of it myself. Percy is going to the
University after he's finished at Marlborough :
but I can't do that. I can't wait till I'm a
man before getting to work. I know I'm not
like them. Mr. Cattley has taken us  oh, I
don't mean us : me  as far as I have any need
to go.'

Why shouldn't you say " us' John?'

1 Because Elle is a girl. She is more different
still. She says her aunt will never let her go on
when she comes back. And, it is thought, Mr.
Cattley will get a living : so that's just how it is,
grandfather. I've been thinking the very same.

As I've got to make my own way, it's far better
that I should begin.'

'Especially as the poor lad has no one behind
him,' said his grandmother, shaking her head.

1 I have yon behind me,' said John ; ' I'd like
to know how a fellow could have anything
better. And Pve all the village behind me that
know yon and know me, though I'm not so much.
"What could I have more ? I've only got to
say I'm Mr. Sandford's grandson, and, all this
side of the county, everybody knows me. The
Spencers have got greater relations, perhaps,
but what could be better than that?

He looked round upon them, first to one side,
then to the other, with a glow of brightness and
happy feeling in his cheerful young face. He
was a good-looking boy, perhaps not strictly
handsome, with mobile irregular features, honest
well-opened eyes, with a laugh always in them,
and brown hair that curled a little. He was not
particularly tall for his age, neither was he short,
but strong and well-knit. And he had the complexion
of a girl, white and red, a little more
brown perhaps than would have been becoming
to a girl. But to John the brown was very

becoming. He looked like a boy who was afraid
of nothing, neither work, nor fatigue, nor poverty,
nor even trouble, if that should have to be borne
but who was entirely confident that he never
need be ashamed to look the world in the face,
and that everything known of him, either of himself
or those who had gone before him, was of a
kind to conciliate friendship and spread goodwill
all round.

The two old people looked at him, and then
at each other. The grandfather gave his
thick, thick ' under his breath, as it were,
the grandmother under her soft white knitting
wrung her old hands. But an awe was upon
them of his youth, of his confidence, of his
happiness. They withdrew their eyes from him
and from each other with a suddenness of alarm,
as if they might betray themselves  and for a
moment there was silence. They dared not
venture to say anything, and he had said what
he had to say. After a moment, however, he
resumed. He noticed no hesitation, no tragic
consultation of looks ; for him everything was so
simple, so plain.

6 Don't you agree with me V he said.

Agree with him ! Listen to the young 'unsaid
the old man at last, with a quaver in his
voice. ' But I'm glad you take it like this, my
boy. We're old folks, and we're growing older
every day. We'd like to live just to see you
settled for yourself in the world. You've
advantages, as you say, in the village maybe,
and just a little way about, where our name
is known, though we have not spent all our
lives in this little place. But look you here.
John. You mustn't expect to be able to make
your way in the village, nor perhaps near it.
You mustn't expect the old folks will last for ever.
When you go out into the world, you'll find there
are very few that ever heard tell of your grandmother
and me. You will have to be your own
grandfather, so to speak,' grandpa said, with
an unsteady little laugh.

It was just at this moment that John, looking
down on the table with his smiling eyes, with
an undimmed boyish satisfaction in grandfather's
little jokes, contented he could scarcely call how,
saw the old ' Robinson Crusoe ' which lay there.
It lay among half-a-dozen books, in no way distinguished
from the others, but to John it was

not like any of the others. It brought a sudden
check, like the rolling up of a cloud over his
mind. The light paled somehow on his face,
as the sky pales when the cloud rolls up. It
was not that he was afraid, or that any shadow
of a coming trouble fell upon him. No, not
that. He was only recalled to the far back
childish life, like a faint vision which lay in the
distance, like an island on the other side of the
sea, half touching the line of the ocean, half
drawn up into the skies. He paused for a moment
in the shock of this idea, and said, half
to himself,

'By-the-by: I talk as if I were only your
grandson, grandfather : but there's something
that comes between  there's papa.'

There was a slight faint stir in the room.
He did not look up to see what it was, being
fully engaged following out the thread of his
own thoughts.

I remember him quite well,' he said ; ' sometimes
I don't think of him for ages together,
and then in a moment it will all come back.
I've been away from them a long time, haven't
I, to be the only son ? and though yon sometimes

speak of  mother '  he had nearly said
Emily, and reddened a little, half with horror,
half with amazement, to think of the slip he had
almost made  'you never say a word about
papa.'

John could not employ any other than the
childish name to denote his absent father. He
could not think of him but as papa. He was
silent for a little, following out his own thoughts,
and it was not till a minute or two had elapsed
that it occurred to him how strange it was that
they should be quite silent too, making no response.
He looked up hastily, and caught sight
of one of those signs which the old people would
make to each other across him, he paying no
attention. But somehow this time he did pay
attention. Mrs. Sandford was bending forward
towards the old man. Her hands were clasped
as if in entreaty. She was giving him an anxious,
almost agonized look, imploring him to do
something, to refrain from doing something 
which was it?  while the grandfather, drawn
back into his chair, seemed to resist, seemed to
be making up his mind. They both assumed
an air of indifference, of forced ease precipitous.

I. E

lately, when they saw that John was observing
them, and then the old gentleman spoke.

I'm  glad you've asked, John. It's been on
my mind for a long time to tell yon. We ought
to have done it years ago : but somehow you
were always such a happy lad, and it seemed
a pity, it seemed a pity to disturb your
mind '

Oh, John Sandford !' the old lady said. It
was not to the boy she was speaking, but to
her husband, once more wringing her hands.

Grandfather gave her a look which was almost
fierce, a look of angry severity, imposing silence ;
and then he resumed 

'Your mother left it to us, to do what we
thought best ; and we had that anxiety for you
to keep you happy that I said unless you asked
and strange it is you never asked before,
though it's not far off ten years you have been
with us. You can't remember much about
him, John.'

I do, though  I remember him quite well.
How he would come and take me out of bed
and carry me downstairs, and how jolly he was.
I don't perhaps think of him much, but when I

do, I remember him perfectly. He was ruddy
and big, and had bright merry eyes  I can see
him now '

The old lady gave a little whimpering cry.

'Poor Robert ! poor Robert ! You may say
what you like, but the boy is like him, not like
any of us,' she said.

Hold your tongue !' said her husband, peremptorily.
* Merry, yes, he was merry enough
in his time ; but it doesn't make other folks
merry that kind '

And there was again a little pause. John's
curiosity was aroused, and his interest : but yet
he was not greatly moved  for anything connected
with his father was so vague for him
and far away.

1 Well, grandfather V he said at last.

Well,' said the old man, slowly, ' there is not
very much to say ; the short and the long of it
is that  hush, woman, 1 tell you ! he is just 
dead. That is all there is to say.'

Dead !' John was startled. He repeated the
word in an awestruck and troubled tone. He
did not know what he had expected. And yet

e2



WMERsmroFumnfc

the moment he thought of it  and thought goes
so quick !  he had gone through the whole in a
moment like a flash of light, realising the long
separation, the utter silence, through which
there never came any news. Of course, that
was the only thing that was possible. He said,
after a time,

I ought to have known. It must have been
that. Never to hear of him for so many years  '

'Yes, to be sure grandfather said. 'He
didn't do well in his business, and he went abroad,
and then he died '

I ought to have known  it must have been
that,' said John.

CHAPTER IV.

JOHN'S CHOICE.

THIS conversation was interrupted by a knock
at the door, which was evidently a very welcome
sound to the old people, who displayed even more
than their usual cordiality when the door of the
parlour opened and Mr. Cattley was shown in.
Mr. Cattley was the curate. He had held that
position in the village of Edgeley-on-the-Moor
since John's childhood, having little influence,
and no ambition, and finding himself in congenial
society, which indisposed him to take any
measures for ' bettering himself ' or moving, as
perhaps he would himself have said, to a wider
sphere. As a matter of fact, if Mr. Cattley had
ever possessed any friends who would have
helped him to that wider sphere, they had forgotten
him before now ; and he had forgotten

them, having succeeded in concentrating himself
in the little rural parish as few people could
have done. Perhaps his pupils had helped to
weave that spell which bound him to the little
place. He had taken charge of all the young
Spencers in their earlier days. He had trained
both Dick and Percy for their school, in which
they had done him credit, at least, in the beginning
of their career : but Elle and John were
his favourites : and, as they had remained with
him until now, his interest in his work had remained
unbroken.

Mr. Cattley was not a very frequent visitor
at the house of the Sandfords. He was, to tell
the truth, generally so absorbed by another
friendship that he had no leisure to pay visits.
This was in fact the secret, but it was no secret,
of the good curate's life. The rector, Mr.
Spencer, was a widower, having been so for
many years, and his house was ruled and presided
over by a sister, also a widow, to whom en
tout bien et tout honneur, the curate was devoted.
Tt was such a devotion as from time to time arises
without any blame on one side or another in the
heart of a young man for a woman who is older

than himself, and whom there is not the least
possibility that he can ever marry. Such attachments
are perhaps less uncommon than people
think, and they are very warm, constant, and
absorbing. Sometimes, as everybody knows,
they do end in marriage, but that is a disturbance
of the ideal, and brings in elements less
delicate and exquisite than the tie which is
more than friendship, yet a little less than love,
and which by its nature can and ought to come
to nothing.

Mrs. Egerton was a woman of forty-five,
bright-eyed and comely, and full of interest in
everything ; but without any pretence at youth :
and the curate had ten years less of age and no
experience whatever of the world, so that the
difference between them was rather emphasised
than lessened. There was, however, one thing
which reduced this difference, which was that
Mr. Cattley had a great air of gravity, and took
an elderly kind of view in the simplicity of his
heart, whereas she was full of vivacity and
spirit, and sided always with the young rather
than the old. The curate had for this middle-aged
woman a sort of quiet worship which was

beyond all reason : all that she said was admirable
and excellent to him ; what she did was beyond
criticism. Whatever she was occupied in he would
have had her to do that ever, like the young
lover of poetry : yet hailed every new manifestation
of the variety of mind which seemed to him
inexhaustible, as if it were a new revelation. He
was sometimes foolish in his worship, it may be
allowed, and the elderly object of that devotion
laughed at it not a little. But in her heart she
liked it well enough, as what woman would not
do % Her heart was soft to the man who adored
her. But that she should adore him in turn, or
that anything should come of their intercourse
save peaceful continuance, was not only out of
the question, but was altogether beyond the
possibility of being taken into question, which is
more conclusive still.

Mrs. Egerton was at this moment absent from
the rectory, and Mr. Cattley was like a fish out
of water. He spent almost all the time he could
spare from his pupils and the parish in writing
long letters to her : but all his evenings could not
be spent in this way, and now and then, sighing
for the difference, he would come out of an evening

and visit one of the houses in the village.
The Sandfords stood very high in the little
aristocracy of Edgeley-on-the-Moor. They were
not very old residents, having come here only
about ten years before, but they had always been
very highly thought of. Mr. Cattley was received
by them with all the deference which good
Church people, to whom his visit is an honour,
show to their clergyman. They thought more
of his visit than if it had been a common occurrence.
And, though he was only the curate, it
was he that was most of a clergyman in the
parish, for the rector, though he was much liked,
was of the class which used to be called Squadron,
and was more of a country gentleman thana
parish priest. There was yet another reason
for their great pleasure at sight of this visitor,
and the warm welcome they gave him. The
conversation had come to a point which made a
break  a new incident very convenient. They
were glad to escape at that moment from John.
After a little interval it would be more easy to
resume their talk in a cool and matter-of-fact
tone.

'You will have a cup of tea, sir,' said Mrs.

Sandford. f Oh ! dear, yes, we've had our tea a
long while ago, but it is just a pleasure and a
pride to have some made fresh for you ; and
though we don't live in that way ourselves I
know many that do. We understand the habits
of gentle people, even though we may not be
gentlefolks ourselves.'

That I am sure you are,' said the curate, e in
the truest sense of the word.'

Oh ! well, sir, it's very good of you to say it,
and I hope we're not rude or rough,' said the
old lady, and she bustled out of the room to
look after the tea, which he did not at all care
for, with great satisfaction in being able thus to
leave the room for a moment. Her husband
plunged into parish talk with Mr. Cattley with
not less relief.

6 Thank God, that's got over,' he said to
himself.

As for John, he was very glad to see his tutor
also, but without any of their special thankfulness.
He did not take much part in the conversation,
which was natural. At his age a boy
is expected not to put himself forward. He sat
and listened, and through it all would now and

then feel a bitter throb of wonder and pain go
through him. Dead! He might have known
it all the time. Papa, so kind as he was, would
never have left him so long without finding
him out, without coming to see him, even if,
as he had sometimes fancied, the grandparents
did not approve. And so he was dead ! gone,
never to be seen more. It was so long, so long
since there had been any reality in the relationship
that the boy could not grieve as he would
have done had he lost anyone he knew and
loved. It was only a shadow he had lost, and,
indeed, he had not lost that, it was with him
just the same as before. And, as a matter of
fact, he had never thought of any meeting again.
The shock he had received was more a kind of
awe of dying, a kind of ache at the thought that
his fond recollections had been, as it were, vain all
this long time. He listened to the conversation,
and even would put in a word or two, and
smile at what grandfather or Mr. Cattley said.
And then the thought, the throb would again
dart through him : dead ! It was a strange
thing to feel that some one belonging to him
had actually gone over that bourne from which.

no traveller returns. This was so solemn, and
John's recollection was so far from solemn ; and
he knew that the gayest, the most light-hearted
had to die all the same, like the gravest. But
to think that some one belonging to him had
stepped across that dark line of separation, that
some one might be thinking about him upon the
other side, beyond the grave. This made John's
nerves tingle, and a shiver passed under his
hair. Dead ! it is so strange when one is young
to realise, though it is, no doubt, common to all,
yet that one individual known to one's self
should die.

Mrs. Sandford came up after a little while,
followed by the maid with a tray. She had
much too good manners to let the guest take
this refreshment by himself, accordingly there
were two tea-cups with the little teapot. And
the old lady's eyes were a little red, if anyone
had remarked it. She had been doing more
than making tea. She had run up to her own
room and cried a little there in the dark over all
the confusing troubles of the past, and over the
new chapter which was opening. She said to
herself,

Oh ! I don't approve it  I don't approve it !'
But what did it matter what she approved,
when it was certain that he (which was the
only name she ever gave her husband) and
Emily would have it their own way?

I suppose,' said the gentle curate, ' that it is
all settled, and that it is I now that am to have
holiday. I shall miss the young ones dreadfully.
I don't know what I shall do without
them. It will make all the difference in the
world to me.'

You see, sir,' said Grandfather Sandford,
who had a faint and uncomfortable feeling that
it was the want of those little payments which
had been made for John which would make the
great difference to the curate, * as it doesn't suit
us to carry him on for what you may call a
learned education, we think it's better for the
boy not to lose more time.'

Xot meaning that he ever could be losing
time with you, Mr. Cattley !'

Mr. Cattley knows I don't mean that : but
only that he has to work and make his own way.'

1 1 understand perfectly,' said the curate, ' and
you are quite right. When a boy has to go into

active life it is far better that he should begin
early. Don't think I disapprove. John and I
have been great friends, and I shall miss him
sadly. But he has really got as much from meas
I can give him  unless it were a little more
Greek : and I'm afraid there is not much practical
advantage in Greek.'

Learning anything,' said old Mr. Sandford,
in a respectful sort of apologetic tone, ' is always
a practical advantage. If you know how
to learn Greek, you'll know how to learn anything.
So the time can never be said to be
lost.'

Mr. Cattley laughed a little quietly, and made
a mental note of this as something to tell Mrs.
Egerton. It amused him very much that the
old man should patronise learning and explain
to himself how Greek could do harm : but still
there is no doubt that Mr. Sandford was quite
right from his point of view.

< I wish he had taken a little more to figures,'
said the old gentleman ; ' figures are very useful
in every way of life. I would teach more sums
than anything else if I were one that was engaged
in instructing youth.'

Mr. Cattley laughed again and said he would
have to learn them first himself.

For that was always my weak point : but
John has a very pretty notion of mathematics.
And have you come to any decision as to what
he is going to do V

1 We were just beginning to talk of it,' said
the old gentleman. ' We were going over a
few family matters, and then we were coming
to the great question.'

'I am afraid then said the curate, 'that I
came in at an unfortunate moment. You should
have told me you were occupied, and I should
have gone away.'

4 Dear, dear, I hope you don't think we are
capable of such rudeness cried the old lady,
1 and it was just this very reason, Mr. Cattley, to
see you come in was what we wished most.'

Yes, sir said her husband, ' nobody can
know like you what the boy's good for. It will
help us more than anything. I was just going
to ask him  John, my lad, what do you think
you'd like to be V

And John, though he had received that shock,
though he was so serious, still, moved by thrills

of wondering and confused emotion, laughed.
He said, ' How can I tell, grandfather, all at
once?' with that elasticity of the youthful mind
which older people find it so difficult to take
into account.

The grandparents looked at each other across
John and across Mr. Cattley. What their eyes
said was briefly this  ' Thank God that's over.'
'And he hasn't a doubt,' said old Sandford's
look, with a little brightness of triumph, to
which his wife's reply was an almost imperceptible
shake of her head. This little pantomime
was not at all remarked either by Mr. Cattley,
who knew nothing about it, or by John, who
made no remark at all. The existence of any
mystery never occurred to the boy. How should
it 1 He knew nothing about skeletons in cupboards,
and was quite ready to have sworn to it
that nothing of the kind belonged, or could
belong, to his family at least.

Well,' said the curate, ' if it is making money
you are thinking of, we all know what is the
best way and the one way  if you have any
opening : and that is business  in a London
office now, or in Liverpool or Manchester.'

Oh, the Lord forbid !' cried Mrs. Sandford,
letting her knitting drop and clasping her hands.

Her husband looked at her severely, and
breathed a hasty ' Hush !' Then after a little
pause,

1 Perhaps we're prejudiced. We have had todo
with some that have done badly in business,
and we don't take a sanguine view. You may
make money, I don't deny, but again you may
lose it. You may have to part with every
penny you've got, and there's a deal of temptation
to speculate and all that. And besides
we've got no opening that I know,' he added,
almost sharply, ' which alters the question

There had been no argument nor anything to
excite him, and yet he ended up in a belligerent
manner, as though he had been violently
contesting the views of some antagonist, and then
looked at Mr. Cattley with a sort of defiance, as
if that mild and innocent clergyman had been
pressing upon him some undesirable course.

'Nay, nay, if you don't like it,' said the
curate, ' there is nothing more to be said. I am
not much, moved that way myself. 1 had a

brother once '

VOL. I. F

 Yes V cried Mrs. Sandford, putting away her
knitting altogether, as if in the importance of
this discussion the mere touch of the work
irritated her. The old gentleman lifted a finger
as if in warning.

Don't you excite yourself, my dear,' he said.

'Poor fellow,' said Mr. Cattley. 'He was
much older than I : but he died young, brokenhearted.
He was not the resolute sort of fellow
that gets on. He got his accounts into a
muddle somehow '

Yes !' cried Mrs. Sandford again. She was
as eager as if this were something pleasant that
was being told her ; whereas the curate had his
eyes fixed, meditatively, on the fire, and spoke
slowly and with regret.

He was not much more than a boy,' said Mr.
Cattley. ' It's a long time ago, when I was a
child. I believe it never could be found out
how it was  whether he had lost the money or
spent it without knowing, or whether some one
had taken it. Nobody blamed him, but he
never got over it. It broke his heart.'

Ah !' said Mrs. Sandford, with a gasp for
breath. But she seemed a little disappointed 

as if she were sorry  though that of course
must have been impossible that the curate's
brother was not to blame.

'Things do happen like that,' said the old
gentleman, breathing what seemed like a sigh of
relief. ' And sometimes it's partly a young fellow's
fault, and partly it isn't. But my wife
and I, we've seen so much of it, living near
Liverpool at one time, which is a great business
place, that it's not at all the kind of life we
would choose for John.'

Oh, John would be all right,' said Mr. Cattle,
'but I'm sorry I have been so unfortunate
in my first shot. I don't doubt, however, that
he has a very fan* guess what he wants to be
himself.'

1 1 didn't know,' said John, ' you had any
objection to business. I should have liked an
office as well as anything, for then one could
have been upon one's own hook at once, and got
a salary, and not needed to come upon you.'

Oh, Johnnie, my boy, did we ever grudge
you anything that you say that V

Nothing, grand mamma ! and that's why I
should like to do for myself when I begin : but

f2

then I'll do nothing that wouldn't please you.
May I speak out quite what I should like?
Well, then, Mr. Cattley knows. I'd like to build
bridges and lighthouses, especially lighthouses ;
that's to say, I'd like to be an engineer.'

An engineer !' They looked at each other
again, but not with any secret communications,
in simple surprise and mutual consultation.
Nobody belonging to you ever was that
before,' Mrs. Sandford said.

 Y es, that is something quite new,' said the
grandfather. 'I thought he'd have favoured
farming, or to try for an agency, or, perhaps, the
corn-faltering trade. Well, it is none the worse
that I know of for being something new.'

The worst is that it takes a great deal of
learning,' said John, doubtfully. * Mr. Cattley
knows, grandfather. You have to serve your
time, and to work hard : but I don't mind the
work.'

1 Yes,' said the curate, < I know a good deal
about it, or at least, I could get you all the information.
I have a brother '

< Not the one,' said Mrs. Sandford, with again
a little gasp, * that broke his heart '

Oh, no,' said the curate, * my father was
three times married, and I have a great many
brothers. This was one of the first lot. He is
quite an old fellow, and he's done very well for
himself ; he never had the least idea of breaking
his heart. Indeed, I don't know he added,
with a smile  but stopped himself, and left his
sentence unfinished.  He has a great foundry,
and is in a large way of business. By the way,
John, I'm afraid he has nothing to do with
lighthouses. He is what is called a mechanical
engineer.'

1 1 suppose they are all connected,' said Mr.
Sandford, as if he knew all about it : and he
expressed himself as very grateful to Mr. Cattle,
who promised to procure him all necessary
information about the further education that
John would require to go through: and the
evening terminated with a little supper of the
simplest kind, which the curate was not too fine
to share. It seemed to bring him closer to
them, and knit the bond of long association more
warmly that he should thus have something todo
with John's future career, and on the other
hand it threw a light of respectability upon the

profession John had chosen, that Mr. Cattley's
brother should be in it. It was a very dark
night, and when the curate left them, John took
the lantern to see him home to his own house.
When the old people were alone, after accompanying
their guest to the door, they came
back to the fire, for it was cold ; but for a few
minutes neither spoke. Then Grandfather Sandford
said, with an air of relief,

1 Well, that's over, thank heaven. It's been
hanging over me, day after day, for years. But
I might have saved myself the trouble, for he
took it as sweetly as any baby, and never had
a doubt.'

Oh, John Sandford,' said the old lady, ' and
doesn't that make it all the worse to deceive
him now? We've told him the truth all his
days ; how could he doubt us ? But when he
finds it out he will think it's all a lie everything
we've ever said.'

To this the old gentleman replied with something
like a sob, covering his face with his hand,

'If you feel you can take it upon you to
break that poor lad's heart, do it ; but don't ask
me.'

CHAPTER V.

AN ADVENTURE.

The curate and his pupil trudged along in the
dark, guided by the lantern which threw a gleam
along the road and showed them the irregularities
in it, which indeed they both knew very
well, avoiding by instinct the bit of broken
causeway before the schoolhouse, and the heap
of crates and packages that were always to be
found in front of the shop. The darkness of the
village was not like the modified darkness to
which dwellers in towns are accustomed. It
was a blackness which could be felt ; without
any relief. But then both of these people knew
every step of the way. The drawback of the
darkness, however, was that one could not see
who might be listening, and had, therefore, no
guidance to tone one's voice or change the subject

when there were people passing by, to
whom one did not care to confess all one's
thoughts. This, however, very little affected
John and the curate, who knew everybody, and
had nothing in the world to conceal.

I'm very glad, John,' said the curate, as they
trudged along, speaking a little louder than
usual because of the night; for it was so heavy
and depressing that it seemed to require more
cheer than usual in the human voices, * very
glad that your grandfather and grandmother
take it so well. It's a very fine profession, the
best you can have.'

Yes, that is just what I think,' said John,
it's not a mere trade to make one's living by.
It means more than that.'

Yes, a great deal ; but, all the same, a sure
trade to make one's living by is something.
You must not be contemptuous '

'* I, sir !' said John.  I hope I'm not contemptuous
of anything ; but if you can make your
living and do something for your fellow-creatures
at the same time  like yourself,' the boy
said, lowering his voice, * though not in such a
fine way '

1 Ah, my boy,' said the curate, in a tone which
implied that he was shaking his head, ' when you're
older even you, perhaps, won't think so much
of my way of serving my fellow-creatures. It
is not very much one can do. If I were in the
East-end of London, perhaps, or on a mission 
but never mind about that. You must remember
that building lighthouses is the heroic part,
but learning to survey and to calculate, or having
to work at machinery, as you would do if
you went to my brother '

I'd like the one for the sake of the other,'
said John.

'But you might never, perhaps, get to the
other. You may have to grind for years at the
mechanical part. You must not form too high
expectations. We all have our dreams of lighthouses
 and then, perhaps, never get any further
than to make a bit of railway or to look
after the fall of the water in a lock.'

You always say,' cried the boy, ' that a firm
resolution is half the battle

1 Yes, indeed,' said the curate, and once more
there was that in his voice which sounded as if he
were shaking his head. ' Ah, yes,' he went on,

with a laugh, ' that's the greatest part of the
battle. I never said a wiser thing (if I said it)
than that. Solomon himself couldn't teach you
anything better. Stick to it with a determination
that you are going to succeed, and, unless
you are very unfortunate indeed, you will succeed.
Ah ! what is that ! Who is there % The
lantern, John.'

They had just passed the village public-house,
which was a thorn in the curate's flesh, and had
dimly perceived, by the light of the half-open
door, dim figures striding out and flitting into
the darkness ; for the hour of closing was near.
Perhaps one of the times Mr. Cattley shook his
head, it was at this headquarters of opposition
to all he was trying to do. He was not of different
clay from other men, and he hated the place,
as those who have had to contend against an
evil influence, whose headquarters they cannot
reach, are apt to do, with more vehemence than
perfect justice demands. Some one had addressed
him, as he spoke to John, with a hoarse, ' I
say, master,' out of the darkness, and there had
come along with the voice into the fresh, chill,
and wide air round them that overpowering

smell of drink which sickens both the senses and
the heart. It must have been a very bold
parishioner, indeed, who could have addressed
the curate at that stage, and it was with a voice
much sterner than usual that he said,

The lantern, John !'

John raised the lantern quickly, sharing his
master's indignation, and, the light suddenly
shifting, fell upon a figure which, happily, was
not that of a village toper. It was a tall man,
in rough clothes, with a red spotted handkerchief
tied round his neck, and a hat slouched
over his eyes. If there had been any possibility
of violence in Edgeley, the curate, who
was a slim man, and, notwithstanding his
height, not very strong, might have shrunk
from such a meeting in the dark: but he was
in his own kingdom, and there was not one
even of the worst characters in the village who
did not more or less acknowledge his authority.
And Mr. Cattley, besides, was not the sort of
man to be afraid. He said, with a voice which
changed at once from the friendly softness with
which he had been talking to the boy,

1 Who are you ! and what do you want V

His tone, John, thought, was enough to strike
terror to the most obdurate heart.

1 No offence, master said the man. ' I was
only wishful to ask if you know'd of a Missis
May, that I've been told lived about here

No. I know no one of that name said the
curate. * There is no Mrs. May in this village.
You seem to be a stranger here. Wherever
you're lodging, I advise you to go home and
go to bed. It's too late to be asking for anyone
at this hour of the night.'

'You think I'm drunk, and so do a many;
but I'm not drunk. I've only a drop of beer
on board,' said the man. 'It's a long time
since I've had the chance, and I'm a-making up
for lost time.'

Where are you lodging V said the curate, in
his stern voice.

They said they'd give me a bed there,' said
the stranger, pointing with a hand towards the
public-house ; ' but, now they've found out
about me, they say they won't. And it's dreadful
hard upon a man as has come out of his way
for nothing, as ye may say, but to do a good
turn. And that's the reason as I was asking for

Missis May ; for she'll put me up if he won't, a
good lady as her husband was my mate, and
I'm come to bring her news out of my way.'

Sir,' said Johnson of the public-house, coming
up on the other side, * he's a man as has
let out as he's fresh from Portland, just served
out his time ; and he's looking for a woman as
is the wife of another of 'em. There ain't no
such person here. I've told him over and over
again. And I've told him to move on, and be
off to the station afore the last train goes by.
But I can't get him to do neither one thing nor
the other. And I can't be expected to put up
a fellow like that in my house.'

Was it in your house he got all the drink
he has swallowed?' said the curate. ' If you
will not give him a bed to sleep it off in, why
did you give him the drink V

Oh, that's a different thing. Every man is
free to have his glass,' said Johnson, with a
growl of insolence. Then he added, ' And it
only came out in his drink who he was, and all
this bother about his Mrs. May. There's nobody
here or hereabout of that name.'

6 It's none of you or your miserable holes I

want. It's my mate's wife as 1 want,' said the
man. ' Yon tell me where she lives, or I'll 
I'll break all your windows and pull your old
barracks about your ears.'

He said this with an interlarding of many
oaths, and, swaying back and forward, finally-lost
his balance and dropped upon the roadside,
where John, changing the level of the
lantern, poured a stream of light upon him, ashe
sat up with tipsy gravity, leaning against a
low wall which bordered the path, and looking
up at the group before him with blank, lacklustre
eyes.

6 He can't be left out here in the cold, whatever
he is,' the curate said.

That's all very well for you, Mr. Cattley.
Them as hasn't got to do a thing never see any
difficulty in it,' said the master of the public-house.


I can't stand here bandying words,' said the
curate ; < if you will not take him in, I must doit.
He can't be left to be frozen to death in
the public road. Some of those fellows who
are skulking away in the dark not to face me
but I see them well enough.' Mr. Cattley

raised his voice, and terror ran through the
loiterers who had been lingering to see what
would come of this exciting incident. ' Some
of them can help me along with him to my
house. Come along, and lend a hand, before
he goes to sleep.'

I ain't a-going to sleep,' said the stranger,
haranguing from what he evidently felt to be a
point of 'vantage. * I'm as steady as a church,
and a deal soberer nor e'er a one of you. I
wants Missis May, as '11 take me in and do forme
thankful, along of her husband, as was my
mate.'

1 Come along, men,' said Mr. Cattley, sharply.
I'm not strong enough to do it myself, and you
won't leave the boy to drag him, will you, not
the boy '

If it's come to that, sir,' said the man of the
public house, * I'd rather do it nor trouble you.
After all, it's more fit for me to have him than
you. Supposing as he can't pay, I take it you'd
rather pay for him than have him in your house.
Hey, man, get up and get to bed !'

All I'm wishful for,' said the man, growing
more and more solemn, ' is for some one to direct

me where Missis May's living. It's she as will
be glad to see me wi' news  news of her man 
as was my mate

Thank you, Johnson,' said Mr. Cattley, with a
reluctance which he felt to be unjust. ' I will
certainly pay, and I'm obliged to you, which is
more. Do you want the lantern ? Then come
along, John, you've had enough of this dismal
sight

He went along the remainder of the way,
which was not long, in silence, and it was only
at his own door that he spoke.

John,' he said, * that's such a spectacle as
the Spartans, don't you remember, gave to their
boys

It was awfully cruel, sir,' cried John, ' they
made the Helots drink  and then  it wasn't the
fault of the poor brutes. 1 would rather go without
the lesson than have it like that

'And I'd rather you had gone without this
lesson. I'd rather you knew nothing about it.
But we can't abstract ourselves from the world,
and we can't live in the world without seeing
many horrible things. I wonder now whether
there was a bit of faithfulness and human feeling

at the bottom of all that ? Heaven knows ! or
it might be the reverse  an attempt to get something
out of some poor decent woman to cover
her shame. Did you ever hear the name of May
about here V

1 No,' said John, ' never;' and then he paused
for a moment. ' I seem to know something about
the name ; but I'm sure there's no one called May
here.'

1 Not down by Feather Lane V said the curate,
thoughtfully. ' I must speak to Miss Summers
about it. She will know. Now, here we are at
my door, and I shouldn't have let you come sofar.
Go quickly home, my dear boy.'

John obeyed, yet did not obey, this injunction.
He went home without lingering, but he did not
go quickly. Why there should be a particular
pleasure in lingering out of doors in the dark ina
world unseen, where there is nothing to please
either mind or eye, it would be difficult to say.
But that there is, every imaginative spirit must
have felt. The boy strolled along in a meditative
way, dangling his lantern at his cold
fingers' end, throwing stray gleams upon the

road, which gave him a fantastic half conscious
VOL. I. G

amusement but no aid, though, indeed, he did
not require that, in seeing his way. The landlord
of the ' Green Man' was still outside discoursing
upon the hardship of being compelled to take
a drunken brute fresh out of prison into his
respectable house.

'We'll maybe wake up in the morning all
dead corpses,' he said, unconscious of the warrant
of Scripture for the words, ' all along of a clergyman
as just fancies things.'

6 Put him in the barn,' said one of the loungers
about, slow spirits excited by the stir of something
happening, who had returned and hung
about the door discussing it after the curate had
passed. 'Put him in the stable, that's good
enough for the likes of him.'

I'll put him in the loft and turn the key upon
him, so as he'll do no harm,' said the landlord.
The man, as John made out with a gleam of his
lantern, was still seated on the edge of the
pathway, supported against the wall, his red
handkerchief showing in the light. He was
muttering on in a long hoarse monologue, in
which there was still audible from time to time
the name of May.

May ! John asked himself, as he went on,
how was it that he knew that name ? It seemed
to be so familiar to him, and yet he could not
recall distinctly what the association was. Then
he pondered on what the curate had said,
whether by any chance there might be what he
had called ' a bit of faithfulness and human feeling
' at the bottom of the miserable fellow's persistence.
Nobody but Mr. Cattley would have
thought of that, the boy said to himself; and
there rose before his half-dreaming eyes a picture
of some poor creature waiting for news,
blessing even this wretched man for bringing
them to her.

John had read 'Les Miserabless ' (in the original;
for Mr. Cattley knew so much! and had
taught him French as well as Latin), and a
comparison between the incidents rose in his
mind. He felt, as one feels at that age, that it
was rather grand to be going along in the dark,
thinking of Victor Hugo's great book and comparing
French and English sentiment, he who
was only a country boy ; and this feeling mingled
with the comparison he was making. Mr.
Cattley was not an ideal saint like Monseigneur

g2

Bienvenu, but neither were the English village-folks
so hard-hearted as the French ones. They
would not have left even a returned convict to
perish in the cold. This suggestion of perishing
in the cold, which made him shiver, sent John's
imagination all abroad upon shipwrecks at sea,
and tales of desolate places, the martyrs of the
Arctic regions and those in the burning deserts ;
his fancy flitting from one to another without
coherence or any close connection as thoughts
do. And then, with a sudden pang, as if an
arrow had gone into his heart, he remembered
what had been told him only this evening, that
his own father, papa, who had been a sort of god
to his infancy, was dead. How was it possible
that he could forget it as he had done, letting
any trifling incident take possession of his mind
and banish that great fact from the foreground ?
He felt more guilty than could be said, and yet,
while feeling so, his mind flitted off again in
spite of him to a hundred other subjects. The
recollection returned with a fluctuating thrill, at
intervals, but it would not remain. It linked
itself even with this question about Mrs. May.
May ! what had that to do with the revelation

which had been made to him?  that, a mere vulgar
incident seen on the roadside  the other an event
which ought to make everything sad to him.

He went on a little quicker, spurred by the
thought. His father's death had not made
everything sad to him. It was but one incident
among many which came back from time to
time; but the other incidents  he felt ashamed
to think they had interested him quite as much.
It had been altogether an exciting evening.
First that intimation, and then the talk about
what he was going to be, and the consent of his
grandparents to his plan. Either of these facts
had been quite enough to fill up an evening, or,
indeed, many evenings, and now they all came
together ; and then, as if that were not enough,
the startling scene in the darkness of the night, the
returned convict just like ' Les Miserabless,' but
so different, the ' bit of faithfulness,' perhaps, and
1 human feeling.' John said to himself that this
was a poor little outside affair, not worth to be
mentioned beside the others, but yet he could
not help wondering whether the poor fellow,
though he was so little worthy of interest, would
ever find his Mrs. May.

He got home before he expected, in the multiplicity
of these thoughts ; and when the door
was opened to him noiselessly, without anyone
appearing, he knew it was grand mamma, who
was always on the watch for him. She said, ina
whisper,

You've been a long time, dear. Hush, don't
make any noise, grandfather has gone up to bed

I was kept by a strange thing,' said J john.
Come into the parlour, and I'll tell you, grand-mamma.
Why, the fire is nearly out, though
it's so cold !'

 There's a fire in your room, my dear. You
forget how late it is  near eleven o'clock. And
what was the strange thing, Johnnie 1 There
are not many strange things in our village at
this hour of the night.'

She was wrapped up in a great white shawl r
and the pretty old face smiled over this, her
complexion relieved and brightened by it, a
picture of an old lady, beaming with tender
love and cheerful calm.

It was very strange,' said John, ' though it
seemed at first only a drunken fellow at the
door of the  Green Man." '

1 Mr. Cattley shouldn't have taken you that
way. I don't like to have you mixed up with
drunken men.'

1 How could I be mixed up V said John, with
a laugh. ' But the strange thing is that he says
he's a returned convict, and that he was calling
out and asking everyone for some woman, a
Mrs. May.'

Mrs. Sandford clutched at John with her
hand. Her lips fell apart with horror, the
colour fled from her face.

Oh, good Lord ! What is it you are saying?'
she gasped, scarcely able to speak.

You don't mean to say you are frightened,
with the doors locked and all the windows
fastened! Why, grand mamma,' said John,
laughing, 'you are as bad as the people in
Les Miserabless," that I read to you, you
know '

Oh, yes, I'm frightened !' she said, leaning
upon him, and putting her hand to her heart, as
if she had received a blow.

He felt the throbbing which went all through
the slight frame as if it had been a machine
vibrating with the quickened movement.

Why, grand mamma,' he said again. ' You
to be frightened ! He can't, if he were a demon,
do any harm to you. And shall I tell you what
Mr. Cattley said ? He said it might be a bit
of faithfulness and human feeling, his coming
to look for this poor woman, to bring her news
of her husband.'

' What had he to do with her husband V said
the old lady, almost in a whisper, turning away
from him her scared and panic-stricken face.

'Oh, he had been in the same prison with
him,' said John. ' He said her husband was his
mate  that means, you know  but of course
you know what it means. And, by-the-by,'
said the boy, ' can you tell me, grandmamma,
how it is that I seem to have some association
or other  I can't tell what it is  with the name
of May? 5

CHAPTER VI.

GRAXDMAM M A

Mrs. Sandford got up very early next morning,
some time before it was daylight. She had
scarcely slept all night. As quiet as a little
ghost, not to wake her husband, she had stolen
upstairs after dismissing John to bed : and she
stole out of her room as softly in the morning,
her heart rent with trouble and fear. It washer
habit to go out early in the summer mornings
to look after the garden, to collect the eggs
from the poultry-yard, to gather her posies with
the dew upon them, which was an old-fashioned
way she had. But in winter the old lady was
not so brave, and feared the cold as the least
courageous will do. Notwithstanding, it was
still dark when she stole out, unseen as she
fondly hoped, by Sarah in the kitchen. The

darkness of the night was just beginning to
yield to the grey-unwilling daylight. The
milkman was going his rounds. Some late
people, not the labourers, who were off to their
work long ago in the darkness, were coming out
very cold to their occupations : the shop had still
a smoky paraffin-lamp lighted, and there was
one of the same description shining through the
open door of the ' Green Man.' Except for
these points of light, all was grim and grey in
the village. The sky widened and cleared
minute by minute. It did not grow bright, but
slowly cleared. Mrs. Sandford had a thick veil
over her face, but everybody knew her. To attempt
to hide herself was vain. She had taken
a basket in her hand to give herself a countenance.
It was a basket which was well known.
It carried many a little comfort to sick people
and those who were very poor. The sight of
the little slim old lady with her fair, fresh face
and white hair, her trim black-silk gown, and
warm wadded cloak, and the basket in her
hand, was very familiar to the people in Edge-ley.
But she was seldom out so early, and her
steps were a little uncertain, not quick and

light as usual. You could generally see, to look
at her, that she was very sure where she was
going and knew every step of the way. This
morning she went up past the ' Green Man,' so
that the milkman, who was a great gossip, said
to himself,

 1 know ! She's going to that tramp as was-took
bad last night in Feather Lane.'

But when he had gone on his round a little
further and saw her coming back again, his confidence
was shaken.

1 It must be old Molly Pidgeon she's looking
for  and most like don't know as she's moved.'

But, when Mrs. Sandford crossed the street,
this observer was altogether at fault.

1 There's nobody as is ill that a- way,' he said
to the customer whom he was serving. * Whatever
is Mrs. Sandford doing out with her basket
at this time in the morning, and no sickness to
speak of about V

The woman standing at her door with the
jug in her hand for the milk leaned out too, and
stared.

There's a deal of children with colds, and
old folks,' she said.

And they both stopped to look at the uncertain
movements of the little figure. Even
curiosity in the country is slow in its operations.
They stood half turned away from the milk-pails,
which were their real point of meeting, and
stared slowly, while the unwonted passenger instill
more unwonted uncertainty flickered along.
In the meantime there had been a little commotion
at the ' Green Man,' such as was very unusual
too : for in the morning all was decorous
and quiet there, if not always so at night.
There was a loud sound of voices, which, though
beyond the range of the milkman and his customer,
attracted the attention of other people who
were about their morning's business. The postman
paused while feeling for his letters, and
turned his head that way, and the people in the
shop came running out to the door.

It'll be him as made the row last night,' they
said, in fond expectation of a second chapter.
Their hopes were so far realized that at this
moment the folding swinging-doors flew open,
and a man burst out more quickly than is the
usual custom of retiring guests. And he stopped
to shake his fist at the door, where Johnson

appeared after him watching his departure.
I promise you I'll keep an eye on you,' Johnson
cried after him, and the stranger sent back
a volley of curses fortunately too hoarse to be
very articulate.

Mrs. Sandford crossed the road again just at
that moment, and she heard better than the
observers far off. A look of horror came over
her face.

1 Oh ! my good man,' she cried, lifting up her
hand, * I am sure you don't wish all those horrible
things. "What good can it do you to
swear !'

The man looked at her for a moment. Her
little dainty figure, her careful dress, her spotless
looks made such a contrast to this big
ruffian, all disordered, squalid, and foul, with
every appearance of having lain among the
straw all night, and the traces of last night's
debauch still hanging about him, as no words
could express. He stood a moment taken
aback by her address ; probably he would have
shrunk even from appealing to the charity of a
being so entirely different and out of his sphere ;
but to have her stop there and speak to him

took away his breath. His hand stole up to his
cap involuntarily.

It do a man a deal of good, lady,' he said ;
it relieves your mind ; but I didn't ought to,'
he added, beginning to calculate, ' I know.'

'You should not, indeed,' she said; and then
added, ' You seem a stranger. Are you looking-for
work? or have you any friends about here?'

The postman, the woman at the shop, and
everybody within sight admired and wondered
to see Mrs. Sandford talking to * the man.'
This was the name he had already acquired in
Edgeley. They wondered if she could know
that he was a man out of prison. But she was
known to be very kind.

 I shouldn't wonder if that was just why she's
doing of it, because nobody else would touch
him with a pair of tongs,' an acute person said.

He seemed, it must be added, much surprised
himself; but he was a man who had been used
to prison chaplains and other charitable persons,
and he thought he knew how to get over every
authority of the kind.

Lady,' he said, ' that's just what I want. It's
work, to earn an honest living ; but, 'cause I'm

a poor fellow as has been in trouble, nobody
won't have me or hear speak of me ; but to have
been in trouble once, that's not to say ye don't
want to do no better. It's only when ye gets
there as ye know how bad it is.'

4 That may be very true,' said Mrs. Sandford ;
but a little village like this is not the place to
get work, I'm afraid ; for there is nothing to do
here.'

1 Xo, lady,' said the man ; * and it wasn't so
much work I was looking for this morning, as
to do a good turn to a mate o' mine, as was
with me, I needn't say where. Maybe ye may
know, lady, as it can be seen you're a charitable
lady. Maybe you can tell where I'll find a
Missis May '

Mrs. Sandford's little outline quivered for a
moment, but her face did not change. She
shook her head.

There is nobody,' she said, 'of that name in
this village. I know all the people, as you say.
I think there was a woman called May about here
a number of years ago, but she has removed,
and where she has gone I can't say.'

Ah, that's like enough,' said the man ; * ita

long time, and maybe she might not want the

folks belonging to her to know.'

'Was it news you were bringing her?' Mrs.

Sandford said. ' That was very kind of you 

but perhaps she would rather you didn't tell

her affairs to everybody, and that her husband

was '

I didn't say nothing about her 'husband,' said

the man, quickly.

Oh ! was it her son then, poor creature ? for
that is still worse,' the old lady said.

He looked at her keenly with the instinct of
one who, deceiving himself, has a constant fear
of being deceived ; but to see the little Lady
Bountiful of the village standing there with her
basket, her fresh face as fresh as a child's, her
limpid eyes looking at him with an air of pity yet
disapproval, and to imagine that she was taking
him in was impossible even to a soul accustomed
to consider falsehood the common-place of
existence.

It was her 'husband,' he said, sullenly, * and I
don't care much if she liked it or not. She
daughter like it if she didn't, for it was news of
him I was bringing, and I could tell her all

about him  being mates for a matter of seven
years, him and me.'

Poor woman !' Mrs. Sandford said. ' But I
can't tell you where she has gone, only that
she's not here

You wouldn't deceive a poor fellow, lady?
I've 'ad a long tramp, and that beggar there,

though it's nothing but a public he keeps,

him '

Oh,' said Mrs. Sandford, ' don't swear ! "What
good can that do you % Indeed, I am not
deceiving you. I'm very sorry for you. I will
give you something to pay your fare to the
town. You will be better off there than here.'

It's not much of a town as far as I've heard,'
he said, < and I ain't 'ad no breakfast. And my
'part's set on doing my duty by my mate. I'll
go from door to door but I'll find that woman,
blast her. She's a proud 'un, I know, and
thinks herself a lady. I'll have it out with her,
I will, afore I go.'

In that case,' said Mrs. Sandford, * I can't
give you the money which I offered you : and I
meant to give you something for your breakfast
too  and I must speak to the constable, for

VOL. I. H

we cannot have you about the village, Mr.

I don't know what your name is. To have you
here frightening all the poor people would
never do

She gave him a lofty nod of her little head,
and turned away : but the man, after all, was
not willing to relinquish present advantage for
problematical good. He made a stride after her,
which frightened her very much, and took away
all her pretty colour, but not the courage in her
heart.

'Lady he said, 'if you tell me on your
honour that woman ain't here  them folks all
said so, but I didn't believe 'em : and if you'll
give me  say ten shilling'  over and above the
fare, as you promised '

A gleam of eagerness came into Mrs. Sandford's
eyes ; but she controlled herself.

< 1 can assure you,' she said, 'the woman is not
here

She had grown quite pale, and, though she
smiled still, her countenance was drawn with
terror, perhaps, or some other feeling.

You're frightened of me, lady,' the man said,
but you hasn't got no cause. I'm rough enough,

but a lady as speaks kind and don't try to bully
a poor fellow  or go talking about the police 
and besides I couldn't do nothing' to you. The

men would be on me afore we could say Jack

And I'm pretty sure as it's the truth, and May's
wife ain't here. She's a proud one, she is. She's
maybe gone out of the country, or changed her
name, or summit. Gi' me ten shilling' and I'll
go away.'

You had better go to the clergyman,' said
Mrs. Sandford.

1 Gi' me ten shilling,' said the man.

'Oh, perhaps I am doing what is wrong;
perhaps I ought to speak to the constable. I'm
not a person with any authority, and why should
I interfere V

1 Gi* me ten shilling,' he repeated, coming-close
to her, holding out his hand.

1 AY ill you go away if I do 1 Perhaps you
had better see the clergyman. I've no right to
interpose to send you away. Will you go if I

dor

He nodded, watching her trembling hands as
she took out her purse and felt in it, pressing
very close to her, rubbing against her silk gown

h2

with his rough dress ; and, as it happened by ill-luck,
Mrs. Sandford had but a sovereign in her
purse. When he saw it he put his hand upon
hers suddenly, and crushed the little fingers
together which held the golden coin.

Gi' me that,' he said, with his hot breath in
her face, ' gi' me that, or afore any o' them can
get to ye I'll knock you down ; and they can't
do anything as bad to me.'

The little old lady stood enveloped in his big
shadow, with his hairy, villainous face close by
hers. She did not shrink, nor scream, nor faint,
but stood up, deadly pale, with her limpid eyes
fixed upon him.

I am not afraid of you,' she said, with a little
gasp. * Will you keep your word and go away?'
Some sentiment, unknown and inexplicable,
came into the ruffian's heart. He loosed his
grip of the delicate little hand that felt like
nothing in his grasp, which he could have crushed
to a jelly: and indeed he had nearly done so.
He said, ' I will ; I'll keep my word,' in a deep
growling bass voice.

It was all that Mrs. Sandford could do to
unclasp the fingers he had gripped, and to keep

from crying with the pain. She dropped the
sovereign into his hand.

Now go she said.

1 You are game he cried, with a sort of admiration,
looking at her rather than the sovereign,
though his hand closed upon that with
the eagerness of a famished beast upon a bone.
I never saw one as was more game.'

She made a gesture of dismissal with her
cramped fingers.

Oh, go, go  and God forgive you. And oh !
try to get honest work, and live decent  and
not fall into trouble again

< Good-bye, lady he said ; then coming back
a step  ' I'm sorry I hurt you

She waved to him to go away. The man still
lingered a moment, putting up his hand to his cap,
then turned, and, slouching, with his shoulders
up to his ears, took the way across the corner
of the moor to the railway-station, which was a
mile off or more.

Mrs. Sandford turned to go back to her house.
She was so pale that when she came near the
door of the shop Mrs. Box came running out to
her in alarm.

Oh, Mrs. Sandford, come in, ma'am ; come in
and rest a bit. You've not a bit of colour on
your cheeks  you that have such a fine complexion.
You're just dead with fright, and I
don't wonder at it. How did he dare to speak
to you, the villain ? and shook your nerves, poor
dear, so that I see you can't speak.'

Oh ! yes, I can speak,' said the old lady.
Her knees were knocking under her, her whole
little person in a tremble. 'I was glad to
speak to him, poor creature. He wanted someone
that used to live here by. Perhaps a
person like that, who does really wicked things,
may not be worse, in the sight of God, than
many a man who makes a fair show to the
world.'

She said this with many a catch of her breath
and pause between the words. She was very
much overdone, as anyone could see, but she
would not sit down.

If you'll give me a little milk, or some
water, to revive me, I'll be quite right in a
minute,' she said.

That may be true,' said Mrs. Box, * for goodness
knows the best of folks you can't see into

their heart ; but a man as has been in prison
ain't like any other man. They learn such a
deal of harm, even if it's not in them to begin
with. I've just made the tea for breakfast, and
here's a nice cup  that'll do you more good
than anything else  and sit down a moment and
get your breath. I said to William, " There's Mrs.
Sandford a-talking to that brute ; you go and
see that she's all right." But William, he said
to me, " If anyone can bring him to his senses
it's just Mrs. Sandford will do it." So we stood
and we watched. And what did he say to you,
ma'am ?  and dear, dear, how it's taken all the
nice colour out of your cheeks.'

Thank you for the tea. It has done me a
great deal of good,' said the old lady ; ' and now
I must go home, for Mr. Sandford will be wondering
what has become of me. Poor man, he
was very amenable, after all, when one comes
to think of it. I told him Edgeley was no
place for the like of him, and that perhaps
he might get work in the town : and you see
he has gone away. Oh, poor soul ! He was
some poor woman's boy once, that perhaps has
broken her heart for him, Mrs. Box, and never

thought to see him come to that, any more than
you or me.'

Well, that's true, ma'am,' said Mrs. Box.
We don't know what they'll come to, as we're
so proud of when they're children. Hold up
your head, Willie, do ! and ask Mrs. Sandford tolet
you carry her basket, as is always heavy
with things for the poor.'

Not this morning, Mrs. Box. I had but an
egg or two in it,' said Mrs. Sandford, opening
the lid to show that it was empty. There was
a certain suspicion, she thought, in this speech.
There is no need for troubling Willie ; but he
is a fine, good-natured boy, and always willing
to carry a parcel or run an errand. Good-morning
to you all ; you are kind folks.'

She thought the tea had saved her as she
set out again down the village street. But
her limbs still tottered, and she walked slowly,
thinking the way twice as long as usual.
They all called out how pale she was when she
got in.

It is going out,' she said, ' without a cup of
tea or anything, which was all my own fault.'

And why did you go out so early, without

saying a word,' said her husband. ' Charity, my
dear, is a fine thing ; but you should not carry it
too far. Neither that nor anything else is good
when it's carried too far.'

Mrs. Sandford only smiled and said it would be
difficult to go too far when there were so many
poor people, and pretended to make a very good
breakfast behind the tea-urn. After breakfast
she lay down a little on the sofa, saying that it
was the most ridiculous thing in the world to
be so tired for nothing, and that she must have
taken something that disagreed with her, for
the stomach was at the bottom of everything
when one grew old. It was still holiday time
with John, and he insisted upon staying with
her when grandfather went out for that daily
walk which nothing short of death in the house
would have made him leave off. John was unusually
grave. He came and sat beside the sofa
with a very perplexed countenance.

Grandmamma,' he said, ' I feel all mixed. I
am so puzzled with remembering something.
Remembering and forgetting. Wasn't I somehow
mixed up when I was a little chap with the
name of May V

CHAPTER VII.

COMRADES.

So we've got to leave off work, Jack. I don't
know how you may feel, but I don't like it at
all.'

This was what Elle Spencer said as she put
her books together in Mr. Cattley's study on a
day in January not long before that on which
the holidays, if they had been only holidays,
would have come to an end. She was sixteen
a little younger than John Sandford, hitherto
her constant companion and class-fellow. The
relations between them were even more close
than this, as the class consisted but of these two.
Occasionally there had been a little emulation
between them, even by times a keen prick of
rivalry, but Mr. Cattley had made it very distinctly
understood that, while John was more

accurate in point of grammar and all the scaffolding
of study, Elle was the one who caught the
poetry or the meaning most quickly, and
jumped at the signification of a sentence even
when she did not know all the words of which
it was composed. This was true to a certain
extent, but not perhaps to the full length to
which the curate earned it ; but it had a very
agreeable effect as between the two students,
and carried off everything that might have been
too sharp in their rivalry.

Thus Elle's part was clearly defined, and so
was John's. If by chance the girl remembered
a rule of construction before the boy on some
exceptional occasion, or the boy perceived the
sense of a passage before the girl, it made a
laugh instead of any conflict of mutual jealousy.

Why, here's Jack and Elle changing places,'
the curate would say, and no harm was done.
The link between the two was, however, a very
unusual one to exist between a boy and girl.
They were like brother and sister, they were
two comrades in the completest sense of the
words, and yet they were something more.
They were like each other's second self indifferent

conditions. Elle could not very well
imagine what she would do were she Percy or
Dick  who had strayed away from the habits of
their home, into those of public schoolboys,
members of a great corporation bound by
other laws ; but she thought she could quite
imagine what she would do were she John, or
Jack, as the young ones called him.

It did not indeed enter into Jack's mind to
realise what he should do were he Elle ; for
that is one inalienable peculiarity of the human
constitution that no male creature can put himself
in the place of a woman, as almost all
female creatures imaginatively place themselves
in that of some man. It is the one intimate
mark of constitutional superiority which makes
the meanest man more self-important than the
noblest woman. Elle knew exactly what she
would do if she were John. It was like herself
going out into the world, planning the future,
foreseeing all that was to happen. If it had
been possible for her to go out into the world
too, and have a profession, which with a sigh
of regret she acknowledged was not possible,
she would have done it just as he was going todo

it. His enthusiasm about lighthouses had
indeed been struck out by Elle, who had read
all about the Eddystone ' in a book,' as she said,
and who thenceforward had done nothing but
talk about it till she became a bore to her
brothers, and set John's congenial soul aflame.

John and she talked between themselves
about ' the boys ' with a great deal of honest
kindness, but perhaps just a little contempt 
contempt is too hard, too unpleasant a word ;
but then toleration always implies this more or
less. The boys got into scrapes : they thought
of nothing but their shooting or their fishing :
they were dreadfully bored on wet days, or
when, as they said, there was ' nothing to do.'

Jack and I can always find something to do
Elle said.

Perhaps it was after hearing one of these
speeches that Mrs. Egerton, called at the rectory
Aunt Mary, decided that Elle had carried
her studies far enough, and had better now
devote herself to feminine accomplishments, and
can on the lighter part of her education at
home. This decision coincided in point of time
with the resolution of Mr. and Mrs. Sandford to

withdraw John from the curate's charge; so
that, though it had a certain dolorous character
as a break-up. there was none of the painful
feeling on either part of being sent away from
those studies which another more fortunate was
still carrying on.

John and Elle had come together by one impulse
to remove their books. The room in which
they had worked was Mr. Cattley's study, the
front parlour of the house in which he lodged ;
for the curate being only, as it were, in the
position of a temporary inhabitant (notwithstanding
that no known inducement would have
been enough to carry him away from Edgeley)
bad no house of his own, but lodged where all
the curates had lodged within the memory of
man, in Mrs. Sibley's, whose house stood obliquely
at the end of the village street, commanding
a beautiful view of the street itself,
and everything that went on there. The street
was broad, and almost all the houses had little
gardens, which made it a very pretty view in
summer. Within a stone's throw, at the right
hand, was the ' Green Man,' which was a drawback,
especially on Saturday nights, when the

guests were a little noisy, and when Mr. Cattley
was busy with his sermon. But it had this advantage,
that the curate secured from his window
a great deal of information as to the habits
of the more careless portion of his parishioners,
and now and then was able to come down upon
them accordingly, with very crushing effect.
Beyond the ' Green Man,' at a little distance,
was the shop, and then the row of houses ran
on, sloping a little to the right hand, so that the
gable of Mr. Sandford's house in the distance,
which was old, and of a fine, mellow, red brick,
closed up the view. The church and rectory
were withdrawn among trees to the left hand,
behind the line of the village street, which had
nothing at all remarkable about it, but was
homely, and pleasant to the eyes which had
known it all their lives and knew everybody in
it. To be sure, John Sandford was seven when
he came to Edgeley  but that at seventeen does
not tell for much. Feather Lane, the low part
of Edgeley, was quite unseen from Mr. Cattley 's,
being a narrow street which sloped down to the
river, well hidden by intervening houses. Mis.
Sibley's was rather a modem house  at least, it

had additions which were of very recent date.
The window was a wide, bow window, roomy
enough to hold the curate's writing-table, and seat
his two pupils, one at each side. The other part of
the room was quite square, and not very lovely.
It had a table in the centre  a black horse-hair
sofa and chairs, and a red and green carpet
with a very bold pattern. The want of beauty
in these articles, however, had not struck anyone.
The furniture was all so familiar, associated
with so many tranquil, pleasant days, so
many little jokes and youthful laughter. It was
a dear old room,' Elle said. She looked round,
as she gathered up her books, with affectionate
regard. ' Dear old place ! To think one will
never come here again, except to ask for Mr.
Cattley, or bring him a message from Aunt
Mary !' The regret was quite genuine, but
there was a little laugh in it too.

I shan't be able even to do that,' said John.
1 shall be away.'

<Ah, but then you'll write,' said Elle. ' Writing
brings you back to a place more than merely
coming with a message. If you don't write
regularly to me, I shall come to Mr. Cattley, and

ask him, " Mr. Cattley, have you heard from
Jack ?" And then hell take it out, and read it
to me ; and so we'll all three be together again.'

Oh, I'll write fast enough,' said John, lightly,
without any sense of the privilege it was to be
permitted to write as often as he liked to Elle.
1 shall have nothing else to do.'

Elle was not at all offended by this easy statement.
She said,

Not at first ; but after, when you come to
know people, then you'll drop off, I'm sure.
Everybody does. I have heard Aunt Mary say
so often, " Oh, wait till they get among their
own friends." But keep it up as long as you
can be troubled, Jack ; for I am not going among
new friends, you know. Look here, Mr. Cattley
has papa and Aunt Mary on his mantelpiece.
He has hung papa only to keep Aunt Mary company,
I'm sure. Now, let you and me leave him
our photographs, one on each side. He'll like it,
and it will be a little surprise for him when he
comes in.'

He will like yours, I daresay,' said Jack, ' but
mine ? I am sure he can't want mine : and I've
not got one, that I know of.'

VOL. I. I

Yes, you have,' said Elle. ' This is my own :
I brought it with me on purpose ; and, of
course, Mrs. Sandford must have another copy,
and she'll give it me. Look here,' said the girl,
taking out two photographs,whichshehad placed
together in an envelope. They were not very
noble works of art. They were the production
of a travelling photographer who had been in the
village for a week, and in that time had ' done '
everybody, both gentle and simple, in Edgeley.
They represented two young, round faces, very
staring as to likeness, but without other advantage
: however, neither Elle nor John knew
any better. And there was enough in that
juxtaposition to have made the heart of a youth
beat; but John's heart remained perfectly at
ease. It seemed to him, as to Elle, the most
natural thing in the world that they should
balance each other. Nor was he at all offended
that she should give ' my one,' as she called it,
to the curate, with the intention of getting
another from his grandmother to fill the vacant
place in her room when he was aware he had
been placed beside ' the other boys.' There
was no feeling about the matter that was not

quite simple and straightforward. Elle took
them out of their envelope, and attached them
over the curate's mantelpiece with two big pins.

1 thought at one time,' she said, 'of giving
him the frames, too, but then I thought it was
better to pin them up  for if he cares for them
very much he can get frames for them, and if
he doesn't it's no great matter. All the same it
will be you and me.'

Elle stood up against the fire, reaching up
with her arms to fasten the photographs, in her
dark winter frock, which made her slim, girlish
figure more slim than ever. Her hair still hung
down upon her shoulders in half curling locks,
not very long, but very thick and shining, and
full of the wavy, long undulation of natural
curls, which have never been put in paper, or
touched with curling-irons. John, though it
had never occurred to him to admire Elle, did
think her hair very pretty, falling upon her
shoulders in that easy way. It was reddish-brown,
but more brown than red on ordinary
occasions ; only now and then, when there was
no occasion for such vanities, the red would
come out.



You've got very pretty hair, Elle,' he said,
quite simply. ' I think I never saw anyone with
such pretty hair.'

Oh, Jack, papa says it's too red, and Aunt
Mary says it's not red enough ; it's neither one
thing nor another. How can one help the
colour of one's hair, or anything else for the
matter of that ; and yet people speak as if it
was your fault ! Will that do, do you think ?
I've put you on Aunt Mary's side and myself on
papa's, because a lady and a gentleman should
always come alternately, as people sit at dinner,
don't you know. It looks very nice, quite complete.
If Mr. Cattley has any brothers or sisters,
or anything of that sort, there is no room for
them now, that is clear.'

Or fathers and mothers,' said John.

Well, he has had a long time to put them up
in, if he wanted to. We must not trouble ourselves
about them. Everybody has got fathers
and mothers, of course. But I don't remember
mamma a bit ; and you don't either, do you,
Jack?'

1 Oh ! yes, I think I do ; but there is one
thing, Elle,' said Jack, 'I remember papa; I remember

him as distinctly as if it Lad been
yesterday. He used to come and take me out
of bed, I should think in the middle of the night,
and take me downstairs to supper, and 1 had
oranges and cakes and all sorts of things sitting
on his knee.'

Oh, how bad for you said Elle, with a woman's
instinctive consciousness of maternal
responsibility. 'He must have been very
thoughtless to do that.'

Thoughtless ? well, perhaps : I never thought
of it in that light  but it seems very nice as
I look back. Can you believe it, Elle,' said
John, coming close and speaking low, ' it was
only two or three days since, when we were
talking it all over, that I heard for the first time
that my father was dead.'

Dear, dear !' said Elle, looking very grave ;
but then she added, ( I've known it a long time,
Jack. I've always heard papa say that you were
an orphan boy.'

I am not an orphan boy, my mother is living,'
said John, hurriedly. For the first time it occurred
to him that to have a mother living
whom he had not seen for ten years was strange.

It had never struck him in this light before.
But papa he added, in a softer tone, * died
many years ago. I don't know why I never
understood it. One doesn't think of things when
there is nothing to lead one's mind to them.'

I know,' said Elle. * It is just now that I
am trying to remember a little about mamma.
You know, I was only a baby when she died,
and for years and years I never even thought  '

That was like me : it all seemed so natural,,
one made no inquiry.'

We are very like each other, Jack,' said
Elle, ' now some people would have been always
inquiring : at least that is how they do in books.
You and I just took it for granted. Has your
mother, then, a large family that she has given
you quite up to old Mr. and Mrs. Sandford? I
suppose your father was their son, as you are
Sandford too.'

This puzzled John extremely. It was a question
he had not asked himself. Though he knew
that his mother was Emily, and that she was the
daughter of the old people, it had not occurred
to him to wonder why he should be called John
Sandford. It sent off his mind at an entirely

different angle of wonder and inquiry. John 
he had always been called Johnnie in those old
days. John  what ! It seemed to him a dozen
times that he was just on the eve of catching
the name, and then it went from him again ;
besides, he had not time to think of it now with
Elle looking in his face with her brown eyes, all
round and big with the inquiry. He replied to
her question,

1 1 don't think I know, Elle. It really is
very funny how little one thinks. I don't
believe there were many of us. I have a
sister Susie  but whether there are any more

Oh, no, I don't think there are any more.

My mother never comes to see us because  I
am sure I don't know why. I never asked.
Some time or other I must think it all out, and
ask grand mamma. It is absurd, isn't it, to
know so little about one's own people.'

Oh, no,' said Elle,  not when you have not
heard people talking of them. See how well we
look, over Mr. Cattley's mantelpiece. I wonder
what he will say when he comes in. He will
say, " That's Elle," I am sure. He will never
give you the credit of it.'

'And of course he will be quite right,' said
John. ' I should never have thought of such a
thing. Well, dear old place, good-bye. I shall
think of it often when I am away and working.
We have been just the same for a long time,
but we are going to be very different, Elle.
Perhaps next time we meet you won't have
anything to say to me.'

'Why?' she asked, opening wide again her
great soft brown eyes.

Because, of course, you will always be a
lady, and I shall perhaps be a rough kind of
working man.' John laughed in spite of himself
at the idea, which did not frighten him at
all. ' Mr. Cattley says one has to go and work
at the foundry like any working man.'

Likely that I shouldn't have anything to say
to you! Why, that is what I should enjoy,'
said Elle. * Have you got all your books 1
Well, then, we'll say good-bye in concert.
Good-bye, dear old place ! Of course I shall
come back to you often, but Jack most likely
will not come back for a very long time. I hope
when he does he'll be a good engineer, and be
building a new Eddystone, or something of that

kind : and I hope he will never be such a fool
as to think that people will have nothing to say
to him. We two schoolfellows will always befriends
whatever happens, and wherever we go.
You shall always tell everything to me, Jack,
just as you always did in Mr. Cattley's dear
old study. Xow, that is a promise, mind.'

1 Yes, Elle,' said John, ' but you ought to
promise the same, that you will tell everything
to me.'

'Oh, girls are different,' said Elle. They
walked out, carrying with them their burdens of
books. It did not occur to John that he should
offer to carry hers for her, or treat her otherwise
than on the footing of perfect equality which
they had hitherto occupied. Nor did she think
of it. They stood upon no ceremony with each
other. Elle's instinct told her that to promise
entire confidence was not on her side so simple,
as on his : but she was ready to promise
faithfully,' on her part, always a ready ear for
his confidences, and her best attention to any
problem he might present for her consideration.
John accepted this without further question.
He knew vaguely that girls were different.

Elle would go back to the drawing-room at the
rectory, while he went out to work at his profession.
He felt that the girls had the worst of
it, poor things.

And they walked out through the little garden
and down the side street which led to the
rectory with a little sentiment in their young
bosoms, but none that touched upon the relations
between themselves. They felt a little
sad at leaving school. They felt that one
chapter of their lives was over, and that it was
a pity, yet delightful. They were sad to leave
Mr. Cattley and their books, yet enchanted to
be on the threshold of life. John walked to the
rectory gate with his school-fellow, for company,
and then they parted, but without any tender
adieu, without even shaking hands ; for after all,
until John actually left Edgeley, they would
certainly see each other every day.

CHAPTER VIII.

A CALL FOR EMILY.

Mrs. Sandford had not been well ever since
that morning expedition of hers. There was
nothing the matter with her, she said, oh, nothing.
She was only a little tired ; perhaps she
had done too much at Christmas, what with the
flannel-petticoats and all the rest. The clothing
club had been a little trying that year.
There had been more people to satisfy, a greater
number of pence to reckon up, and garments to
choose. And Mrs. Egerton had been absent on
a visit, so that the great part of the work fell to
Mrs. Sandford's share. All these she set forth,
smiling, as reasons why she should be tired.
And then there was the reason that underlay
all these, which gave force to them  that she
was growing old. Of that there could be no

question  every birthday made it more and more
certain. She was no longer at a time of life
when people can make light of fatigue. She
was growing older every year. This smiling
plea was received by grandfather with his thick,
thick, and by John with a troubled but nevertheless
unquestioning acquiescence : for there
could be no doubt that it was true. He thought
her even older than she thought herself, and
felt that her days were over, before she had
realised that fact in her own person. She grew
older not only every year but every day as the
weeks of January went on. At first she went
out a little in the middle of the day when the
sun shone. But soon this little exercise was
given up. It did a delicate person no good,
really no good, the doctor said, to go out in that
wintry weather. It was wiser and better to
stay indoors ; and then it came to be considered
wiser that she should rise late, and lie on the
sofa when she came downstairs. She lay there
always smiling, declaring that nothing ailed her,
but as a matter of fact fading and failing day
by day.

The last time she went out with John she had

kept looking about with a little nervous glance
by all the side roads. They went as far as the
common and paused a little, looking across by
the path which led to the railway-station.

1 Have you ever heard anything more of that
man?' she said.

What man, grand mamma V

The man you once told me of, you know,
who had been a convict. The man who was
asking for somebody's poor wife '

Oh ! yes, I remember. Xo. I am sure
he has never come back again. Perhaps
he did not mean all he said. He had been
drinking '

Drink is  a terrible thing, John. Almost
everything begins with drinking. I have known
it poison more lives than anything else in the
world. If I had to choose, I think I would
rather that a child of mine should murder someone
outright than take to drink, for in that case
there is no telling how many he might murder
 all that loved him  and himself as well as
the rest

You need not tell me, grand mamma ; no one
can hate it more than I.'

'I hope so. I hope so, dear! You have
never seen anything all your life that could incline
you in any such way, have you, John ?
But remember you have never been in any
temptation  and till one is in temptation one
can never tell what may happen. I think, my
dear, we will go home.'

They had many little conversations of this
kind. The old lady would begin upon any subject,
it did not matter what, and then by degrees
she would come to this :

'I have seen so much in my life. I have
seen many young people grow up everything
that could be wished, as you have done, John ;
and then, as soon as they came into temptation,
they have gone astray. Nobody knows till he
has been tried : and it is not the disagreeable ones,
the ones that you would dislike, that go : sometimes
the very nicest, John  those that are the
kindest, the tenderest. That is a great mystery.
None of us can fathom it.'

It does seem very strange,' said the attentive
boy, listening at once out of respect and out of
the cheerful curiosity of his age, often with a
sense that he knew better, but far too considerate

and kind, as well as conscious of the fitness
of things, to let her see this. She had seen so
much : and yet to one who had begun to know
a little philosophy and a number of books, how
little it seemed that grand mamma could know.

Oh ! it's very strange,' she said. i I've lain
in bed for hours thinking of it, and I've gone
about the house for days thinking of it, and yet
I never come any nearer. Do you remember
what it says in the Bible, about the potter
making one vessel to dishonour and another to
honour ? Oh ! but, John, it seems sometimes
more than that! It seems as if He took the
vessels that had been made for honour, and
dashed them down on the ground and let them
all break into shreds and miserable fragments.
You can't think what it is to stand and look on
at that, and be able to do nothing, nothing !'

John was sitting by the side of her sofa : for
they had come in : and he saw with wonder, yet
great respect, that the tears had come to her eyes.

But, surely, grand mamma,' he said, seriously,
1 it must be their own fault.'

1 Oh ! yes, my dear, no doubt it must be their
own fault,' she said, and put up her handkerchief

to her eyes, and for a moment could not speak.
The boy sat by her side, greatly touched by
her emotion and wondering who it might be of
whom she was thinking : for he felt that it could
not be only the general question that went so
much to the old lady's heart. But he felt inclined
to speak to her seriously, and reason with
her, and say to her that no one could be forced
to go wrong, that the people who did so must
do it because they liked it, because they had no
self-control, or wanted something in their constitutions
: and that it was wrong to blame
Providence or even human nature for what was
their own individual fault. He only did not say
this because he was so respectful and kind, and
the sight of her silent crying  although, indeed,
at her age, an old lady is easily moved to tears
went to his heart.

But no one can ever tell whether they can
resist or not, till they have been tempted,' she
said. ' We think nothing would ever make us
do it, and then the next thing is that we find
ourselves doing it, some in small things and
some in great.'
To this, which was abstract, John did not

know how to make any reply ; and there was a
silence of a minute or two, after which Mrs.
Sandford said, suddenly,

1 John, I am thinking of sending for Emily.
It is a long, long time since I saw her, and
at my age, you know, one can't go on living
for ever.'

6 You don't feel any worse, grand mamma V

Oh, worse !' she said, with her pretty old
smile, ' not even ill  there is nothing at all the
matter with me. Still, I've been keeping quieter
than usual, and lying on the sofa so much makes
one feel weak. And I've been thinking that ita
long, long time since she has been here. It is
not quite natural that a daughter should be so
long without coming to see her parents, is it ? 
and she our only child. But you must not suppose
1 blame Emily  oh, no ! There were
many reasons which seemed to make it better
that she should not come  family matters which
we should have to explain to people that know
nothing about them. And in some respects,
John, though you will think it strange, it might
be a painful meeting. Still, 1 think that she
should come.'

VOL. I. K

John did not feel able to make any reply. It
seemed to have escaped Mrs. Sandford's mind
that this was his mother of whom she was
speaking, and that, if it was strange that a
daughter should not come to see her parents, it
was still more strange that a mother should not
come to see her child. The thought of her
coming brought a great sense of disturbance
into his mind. He did not feel that he had any
wish to see her. His mother had got confused
and lost in this Emily of whom he had heard so
much. They were, he supposed, the same person,
but he had a reluctance to identify them.
It was not to her but to his grandparents that
he belonged. He had no desire to have this
little world disturbed, where all was so harmonious,
by an alien presence. The wonder which
had arisen in his mind when he talked with
Elle, rose up again more painfully. How little
she must care for him never to have wished to see
him again. Perhaps she was one of those people
who do not care much for anyone. Altogether
it would be better that the family should remain
as they had always been, without the
disturbing influence of one who was so near to

them all, and yet was a stranger. An uneasy
sense that harm would come of it and that pain
would be in it filled his thoughts.

1 Yes,' said the old lady, in her soft voice,
whatever happens, it would be well that she
should come. Her father would like her to be
here. Even if he did not wish it at the time, he
would be glad of it afterwards ; for how could
he settle everything, he that has never had any
trouble about the house, by himself ? John, we
have a nice quiet time just now. It's raining,
and nobody is likely to call, and your grandfather
has gone over to Satisfied to ask
about those new strawberries. Bring your little
writing-case  that Mr. Cattley gave you on
your birthday. You can put it here on my
table. I'm too tired to write myself. Just
say what . I tell you. Are you ready, dear ?
Then, you may begin. " Dear Emily " '

1 But, grand mamma,' said John, ' how can I
say " dear Emily," when it is my mother ? I
can't write to my mother so

Dear, dear me !' said Mrs. Sandford, ' how was
it I never thought of that ? Oh, my poor boy.
It is just a confusion altogether,' she cried, once

K2

more, with tears ready to drop, ' just a confusion,
everything turned upside down, and all as unnatural
! I felt it from the first, but they

thought they knew better than me. Then you
must say, " dear mamma," John. I am glad you
reminded me of that, for I get confused too. Now
go on, my dear. " It is a long time since you
have been here, and I think it is time that you
should pay us a visit. We are getting old people,
and your dear father, though he never
complains, is not such a walker as he used to
be, and I have got a little stupid, and can't keep
him as cheerful as I could wish." Do you think
I shouldn't say as much as that ? or what do
you object to, my dear V

< Dear grand mamma,' said John, f I had better
put " Emily" at the beginning of the letter : for I
could not say that about getting old, and about
her dear father, could I  when I am only her 
sons

Mrs. Sandford said thick, thick as her husband
did ; half coughing, half crying.

e How very silly I am. Of course, you can't
put all that in if you begin " dear mamma."
This is what you must say, John, just "My

dear." That is neither one thing nor another.
Put all the rest that I have told you, and " My
dear," to begin with. " My dear," will do for
anybody. Tell her that I've been thinking of
late of a great many things I should like to say
to her : but that it tires me very much to write,
and that the only way I can think is if she would
come. Of course it will interfere with her time
and she might not be able to get leave ; but I
hope she won't grudge that once in a way to her
mother : and tell her, John  it is just a little
matter between us ; it is nothing you will understand
 tell her that the people here are very
ignorant, good sort of souls that never know
anything. They don't even read the newspapers,
and never have done so. She will know what I
mean.'

John put down all this in the best way he
could ; but it seemed sadly out of character to
him to write with his firm young handwriting,
and with all the sense of incongruity that was
in his mind, such sentences as these to his
mother. He wrote to her very seldom ; only on
great occasions, at Christmas and other anniversaries,
and very formally, as a boy writes

when he is at school. He had done this for a
long time, as a matter of course, and never
thought any more of it. But now his eyes were
opened to the strangeness of everything, to all
that was out of nature in the constitution of his
family, and it did not seem possible to him to
continue any longer in that way which till now
he had accepted without question. There was
something even in the erasures with which this
paper began  the ' dear Emily ' which gave him
a little shiver, the ' dear mamma' which was still
more incongruous  which seemed to stir up all
the smouldering questions which he was not
aware were in his mind. He had not known
anything about them, and yet, apparently, they
were all there, waiting only this touch to bring
them to light. Why was it she never came?
Why was it she had abandoned him, her child,
and then her parents 1 What was it in her life
that kept her so far apart, so unknown, in a
strange world, from which nobody ever came 
nobody who could say f I have seen her '  to
give them fuller satisfaction than letters could
afford, letters which John was now aware told

nothing but the merest surface of existence, that
all was well, that he was getting on with his
lessons, that the weather was very fine, or the
season a cold one? What are such facts as
these in comparison with the intercourse that
ought to exist between people who were each
other's nearest relations ? It gave him a great
shock as he wrote that about * your dear father.'
Was grandpa, indeed, her dear father ! and did
she think so little of him that she never came to
see with her own eyes whether he was growing
old or not ? And what was he, John himself, her
son V Oh, but other women were not so with their
sons. All this must have been in his mind, though
he had never thought of it before. He wrote
down all that his grandmother had told him, and
then he paused in his new development of feeling.
It seemed to him that he would like to
take this paper and tear it into a dozen pieces in
the exasperation of his soul.

Grandmamma,' he said, with a little quiver
in his voice, ' don't you think it would be better
for me to write from myself, and tell her this in
my own way ? I will say just what you want

to have said, but it shall be from myself. It
would be more natural. After all she is my
mother, I suppose.'

'John!' said the old lady. 'You suppose!
What should she be but your mother ? Who
should be your mother but she % Oh, my dear,
I hope you will not take things into your head
that are not true. We have enough of trouble,
enough of trouble, in our family. Don't you
begin and imagine things that are not true.'

1 don't imagine anything,' said the boy, 6 but
if you will consider, grand mamma, this is my
mother. And I know nothing about her. Fora
long time it seemed all simple. 1 never
minded. But, now I'm getting older and see
how other people are, it is all so strange. Let
me have my own way this time  let me just
write to her as it would be natural if I were
really her son.'

 Oh, my John, that you are, indeed, indeed ;
her son and nothing else. Whose son should
you be but hers ? Don't take any wrong notions
into your head. My poor Emily I Oh, if you
knew how many things she has had to bear !
And what would she do at the end of all if her

own boy's heart was cold to her ? You are her
son and no one's else  hers, my dear, and hers
alone.'

John looked with his clear young eyes, severe
yet gentle, in her face.

Isn't that too much to say, grand mamma ?
Am I not the son of my father, too ?'

The old lady looked at him with a strange,
low cry. She caught hold of both his hands fora
moment, with a grasp in which there seemed
something like terror. And then she dropped
back upon her pillow and covered her face with
her hands.

1 1 always said it. I always said it she cried.
Just then, in the pause that followed, a
heavy, familiar step, slow and steady, came
along the road, audible for some time in the
quiet of the afternoon and the house. Mrs.
Sandford dried her eyes hastily and raised
herself up again.

There is your grandfather,' she said. * Oh,
my dear, take that away, and write as you
please : but don't say anything about it, for I
have not spoken to him. And it is not as if I
were sending for her, John. I am only saying

that I should like to see her. Of course I
should like to see her, every mother wishes
that, to see her child. Write out of your own
head; but don't say anything about it, and
quick, quick, take all that away!'

CHAPTER IX,

JOHN'S LETTER.

John was allowed to sit in the parlour now that
he was almost a man, after the old people had
gone to bed. His own room was small, and it
had been agreed upon as a reasonable thing that
he should have a place in which he could sit and
read, or write  till eleven o'clock, at least. Mr.
Sandford retired to his room at ten exactly, every
night, and, since she had been so ill  no, not ill,
tired  his wife had preceded him, going upstairs
very early, in that unaccountable but quite gentle
fatigue which had come over her. x\ll the afternoon
and evening John had been very silent,
thinking  chiefly what he was to say in his letter
to his mother  but also about all the circumstances,
the strangeness of the household life
altogether, the extraordinary separation which,

now that conveyance was so easy, now that everybody
travelled, when even little Joe Hodge, who
was apprenticed in London, came home every
Christmas to see his mother, a poor widow in the
alms-houses  was more wonderful than ever. In
old times it might have been understood, when
there were no railways, in the days which the old
people remembered  but now ! It perplexed
him beyond description, when his thoughts were
fully directed to the subject. And it became
clear to him all at once, as when a landscape suddenly
becomes apparent to us on turning a corner
or coming to the top of a hill, that some
other reason must exist for this than the simple
fact that his mother lived in London and his
grandparents at Edgeley. That was no reason ;
his enlightened mind rejected it. All the afternoon
he kept turning over and over in his mind
what he was to say. He had never in his life
written an important letter, scarcely ever written
one at all which was not suggested, partly dictated
even, by the old people, who would say to
him, < You must write to Susie,' or, ' Don't you
think, John, that you ought to write to your
mother?' This was how his correspondence

had generally been conducted. He had written
a few schoolboy epistles to Dick and Percy,
but they did not count. He thought a great
deal of the importance of the letter. Phrases
for it, sentences which he polished and reconstructed,
and which he felt, with a little satisfaction,
would come very well, kept passing through
his mind in a sort of procession. Sometimes he
felt that he had put a thing very strongly indeed,
that his mother must feel herself entirely in the
wrong, and change her procedure altogether. He
was not aware that people do not like to find
themselves in the wrong, and are far from candid
in acknowledging that fact, even when it is
most apparent in the accuser's eyes.

He got out the little writing-case, of which he
was proud, as soon as his grandfather had gone
upstairs. He got out some paper, carefully inspecting
it to see that there was no infinitesimal
soil on its glossy purity ; and then he began to
write, taking a new pen, and every precaution
against blotting. All these were signs and
symbols of the importance of the act he was
about to accomplish. He lingered over the
preparations w T with a hope that they would inspire

Trim. But when all was done he did not find
it so easy to put down what he wanted to
say. He did not go to bed at eleven that night.
He sat up for two hours later, trying to shape an
epistle which should be like that of a son to his
mother, yet at the same time that of a young
man coming into full possession of his reason to
a woman who was not obeying the dictates of
that fundamental principle. He did not want
to be instructive or dictatorial, but yet he wanted
to show her that he was aware she was failing
in her duty ; and withal it was his intention to
be perfectly respectful and filial. To combine
these things was to an unaccustomed letter-writer
very difficult. His beautiful sheet of paper
which he had chosen so carefully was all scored
and interlined, and had become a mere scrawl
long before he was done. And he himself grew
hot and excited in the process : far more than
if Mr. Cattley had cut to pieces his Latin poem,
and he had been trying to do a new composition.
As a matter of fact, he had made two or three
compositions of this letter before he settled on
one that would do.

This was what he decided on sending at the
last :

1 Dear Mother '  (He had always heretofore said
Mamma, keeping the baby name, which was the
only one under which he had any real knowledge
of her. That, and Emily, he understood : but
Mother seemed a new person, some one with
whom he had no real acquaintance, whom he
must learn to know). ' Dear Mother,'  He did
not add any more for half an hour, and then he
began to write quickly for ten minutes, and put
down the most of what is copied here, though
with corrections and interlining past counting.
This was nothing but the mere draft.

'I think I am old enough to write to you from
myself, being no longer a child : for it seems so
very hard not to know you, or to understand
why it is that I have not seen you for such a
long, long time. People change very much in
such a time ; it is said that even your body
changes, and, still more, your mind, which is always
undergoing developments, and learning
more and having more experiences. Dear
mother, I am not now a little boy. I have finished

my education. Mr. Cattley thinks I have
gone as far as I need try to do, as I am not to
proceed seriously with my studies, and now it
has been settled that 1 am to begin to learn the
profession of an engineer. I had my choice between
that and going into an office, and I chose
that. I hope you will be interested in hearing
all this. Mothers are generally so, and it is hard
upon me  Please do think so !  not to know
whether you care, or if you will be pleased.
Mother, I am writing now to ask you something
something that is very much in my mind. I
do want you to come here. Consider that I
don't know you at all. It is not natural. I feel
almost as if it were wrong not to know my
mother. But it is not my fault ; and there are
poor grandfather and grand mamma whom you
have given up too. They are your parents just
as you are mine, and it is dreadful that we should
never meet. Mother, please don't think I am
saying more than I ought to say ; but do come
oh, do come. I do not feel that I can go on
longer as I have gone on all these years, knowing
nothing about myself, or about you. You
must see, if you will think, that it is very, very

hard upon me, especially now when I am old
enough to think for myself.

1 1 am, dear mother,

1 Your affectionate son,

< John Sandford.'

He had worked himself up to a very high
pitch of feeling before he came to the end. It
need scarcely be added that it was not in the
least what he intended to say. He meant to
have pointed out the hardship of his own case
incidentally, and put the force of his prayer into
his grandmother's wishes. But John found out,
like other people, that his pen ran away with
him  his thoughts ran away with him. The
stream of his eloquence all poured in one direction,
while his intentions took the other way
curious conflict of that dual nature which
nobody understands though so many people talk
of it. It is more often in doing than in saying
that we contradict our own purpose. But John
was more near to the truth in what he said, being
carried away by the fever of writing, and the
natural impulse which seized upon his pen, than
if he had discharged his commission more ex-vol.

I. L

aptly. It was only when he read his letter
over, still labouring with the emotion it had
called forth, and which gradually rose higher
and higher by the stimulus of his own eloquence,
that it occurred to him that he had altogether
left out his grandmother's message. He added,
as so many people do, in the manner which is
called feminine, the real object of his writing
in a postscript. It was very brief, and delivered
with a much decreased earnestness.

Grandmamma is not very well. She can't
do nearly so much as she did a little while ago.
It was she who first said I might write to beg
you to come, and to say that she would like to
see you. There are many things she would like
to say to you, for the people here are very
ignorant, and don't understand

John had no doubt that he had thus given
everything that was of the least importance in
his grandmother's message. He made a fair
copy  a very fair copy of the document which
was the most important he had ever had todo
with. He would not trust himself to the
opportunities of the morning, when, perhaps,
Mr. Sandford might want him to do something,

or Mr. Cattley might send for him, or
anything might happen. The fire had gone
out by this time, and the boy was very cold
and cramped, and the stillness of the dead of
night pressed upon his spirits. He took off his
shoes before he stole up the creaking stairs to
bed, with the fumes of his great intellectual
effort in his head, and all his feelings roused.
A sense of temerity, yet of pride, in the independent
step he had taken was strong within
him. Whatever might happen, at least he had
made it apparent that he was now able to act
and judge for himself.

When Mrs. Sandford came downstairs a little
later than usual next day  it was always now a
little later, so that it was hard upon any principle
of averages to say what the ' usual ' was 
she asked John about his letter, with a look and
a grasp of his hand, which showed how much
in earnest she was, and which gave him a momentary
compunction at the thought of how
little important her share in the invitation had
been made.

Did you send it away V she said to him, ashe
kissed her.

l2

Yes, grand mamma, this morning

Thank you, my dear,' she said; ' did you say
how much I wanted her, and how I hoped she
would come soon V

t Ye-es,' said John, with a less assured affirmative
; then he added, ' I said everything I could
think of. I implored her to come

She pressed his hand in hers with a tender clasp.

'Dear boy,' she said, 'you know I would
never wish you to keep a secret from your
grandfather. But unless he asks you  unless he
says something  you will not take any notice,
John f

John drew himself apart a little, squaring his
young shoulders.

4 1 think he said, ' grand mamma, that I am
old enough to write to my mother on my
own responsibility, without thinking what even
grandfather might say.'

Oh ! yes she said, looking up at him with a
woman's admiration for masculine independence,
that is quite true

'And he would be the last to think otherwise.
He would see that it was only natural
and right

I Yes,' she answered, more doubtfully ; ' but
he might think he ought to be consulted before
you took any step. And that would only be
just. What I hope is that Emily, who is so
sensible, will take it into her own hands and
write that she is coming  without saying anything
about an invitation  that would certainly
be the best way.'

I I think,' said John, * that, whether there were
an invitation at all or not, she ought to have
come long ago to see '

He paused with a curious sense of the
involved situation. Mrs. Sandford echoed his
words with a soft, little sigh.

Oh ! yes, whatever might have happened,
she should have come to see her mother, John.'

But that was not what John intended to say.

Mr. Sandford came in shortly after, full of an
interview he had just had with Mr. Cattley, who
had been corresponding with his brother, the
engineer, about John's plans.

4 It appears that Mr. Cattley 's brother is an
-engineer who has to do with machinery,' grandfather
said. ' I don't know if that is the same
thing as a lighthouse man. You will have to

go to the foundry and learn how everything
is made. It is not surveying and that sort of
thing, so far as I can hear. You will have to
put your shoulder to the 'wheel, they tell me,
and work with your own hands : but I suppose
you will not mind that, John.'

4 And where is the foundry?' asked grand-mamma,
from the sofa. ' I hope it is not too
far away.'

Well, it is not perhaps the place I should
have chosen ; but what does it matter? one
place is very like another. Anything that could
harm him would be just as likely to come to
him in any other place. It's in Liverpool, my
dear

'In Liverpool ' Mrs. Sandford raised

herself so quickly and energetically for her weak
condition that she looked as if she were about
to spring from the sofa. ' John Sandford,' she
said, ' you will never let the boy go there.'

It is not what I should have wished,' said
the old gentleman ; ' in short, it is the last
place I should have chosen. But I did not
think of that soon enough, and, after Mr. Cattle
has been so kind as to make all the inquiries

What can it matter, after all?

That or any other place. It will be just the
same. I can't think that there is any more
danger there than anywhere else. And, things
have gone so far, I don't see how we can drawback.'


Oh, John Sandford !' cried his wife, * it is
not possible. I can never, never consent.
What ! After all we have suffered, and all the
sacrifices we have made, to send him back
there !'

1 1 know, I know,' said the old gentleman,
with a deprecatory wave of his hands. ' It is
all true ; but still, what can we do ? A longtime
has passed, and he is going back without

any No, I know very well what you would

say : but if you will look at it reasonably '

How can I look at it reasonably ? And do
you think Emily will be reasonable? She will
never consent, and neither will I.'

1 But, my dear, my dear !' he said, ' it is all
settled, and how can I go back V

John had listened to this conversation with
a surprise which gradually grew into something
like indignation.

'Grandmamma,' he said, coming forward to
the sofa, ' I don't want to seem wiser than you,
or as if I knew better ; but why should you be
so afraid to trust me I I have never done anything
to make you afraid. I don't think I
want pleasure or anything that is wrong. I
will try to do my duty either at Liverpool or
anywhere else. Don't, please, think that I
shall forget everything you have taught me,
and all that I have been brought up to, the
moment I go away.'

Both the old people had their eyes fixed on
him as he spoke, and then they looked at each
other across him, with one of those looks which
he had so often caught in the passing, looks
which it had always been hard to understand.
Whatever it was, their eyes spoke to each other,
not to him, with a sort of troubled commentary
between them on what he said. Grandfather
shook his head slightly in answer to his wife's
look, and he cleared his throat as if for something
he wanted, but did not know how, to say
but in the end it was she who spoke.

1 Oh, John, it is not that, my dear. We do
trust you, both grandfather and I. It isn't

that. I'm always of a tremble when I see an
innocent boy go out into the world. Oh, yes, I
allow I am, John : and for you, because you're
so precious, most of all ; but it's not that  oh,
no, it's not that.'

What is it, then ? What is there so dreadful
about Liverpool V

That look passed between them again  but
this time there was a warning in the husband's
eyes. He turned round in his chair towards
where John stood. '

Grandmamma was always one of the nervous
ones,' he said, with a faint little laugh,
and the particular thing about Liverpool is
that we once lived near it, and knew a great
deal of what went on there. And there were
some dreadful things happened  one above all.
Oh, you need not be afraid, my dear. I'm not
going to disturb the boy's mind with any tales.
But that's how it is, John. We've seen such
things happen under our very eyes.'

1 That is no reason, grandfather,' said John,
very gravely, < that anything bad .should happen
to me.'

1 Have I not been saying so ! The best thing

is to shut your ears to all idle tales. Don't
believe half you hear, and never go inquiring
into trouble that is past. If you make up your
mind to it, and never forget your duty, and keep
steady  why, Liverpool is just the same as any
other place.'

Not to us  not to anyone connected with
us,' Mrs. Sandford said.

It was all very strange to John. He could
not think why they should distrust him, why
they should have so little faith. Keep steady !
That was a very low level of duty ; he said to
himself that he hoped he would do better than
that. Any poor workman, or poor fellow without
education or advantage of training, disgraced
himself if he did not keep steady. How
much more was required of one like himself !
He had not time, however, to express these
sentiments, for that was the night on which
Mrs. Sandford had one of her attacks. She
had never been in the way of having attacks
as so many people have. But on that evening
she was very ill, and John had to run for the
doctor, and for medicines, and was kept perpetually
in movement, not to say that he was in

deep anxiety, altogether discouraged by the
sight of her suffering, and jumping at once, as
is usual to inexperience, to the awful idea of
death. He did not know how hard that is of
coming, and how many lingering preliminaries
there are to go through. He thought that the
dread presence might push through all human
defences at once, as he does sometimes, and do
his work in a moment. And he was awe-stricken,
overwhelmed with terrible suspense. She slavery
ill all night, but in the morning began to
get better.

 We shall pull her through,' the doctor said,
'but you must see she is not worried or put
out about anything  for that in her present
state she could not bear.'

1 We are to see she is not worried. But who
except God can do that V said grandfather, still
up in the cold, blue dawn of the morning, leaning
upon John's shoulder. 'As long as she lives
she will never cease to worry : and what can I
do ? Perhaps if Emily were here '

CHAPTER X.

THE REPLY.

When John heard his grandfather breathe that
sigh of helplessness which resolved itself into a
desire for Emily  if the purposeless exclamation
if Emily were here !' could be construed into a
wish  he considered it best to tell him what he
had done. He had felt it so strange never to see
her, to know nothing of her, that he had written
to beg his mother to come. For the first instant
the old gentleman had shown displeasure and
something like alarm.

Who gave you authority to invite her here ?
What is she going to do here ? Don't you know,
sir, don't you know, sir, that I  that she  that
she  that everything depends  ' Mr. Sandford
stammered forth in wrath. And then he stopped
himself in considerable agitation, and walked

about the parlour a little, to calm himself down.
To be sure she's the boy's mother, after all,'
he said to himself, in a sort of whisper. i And
then her mother's bad  my poor old dear  she's
very bad.' There seemed a process of reasoning
going on in his mind of which those murmurs
marked the stages. Finally he put his hand on
John's shoulder not tenderly. ' You've done
it,' he said, * out of your own head. I would
not have let you do it had I known. But now
that it's done it's done, and it may turn out for
the best.'

1 Do you think she will come, grandfather V
John asked, eagerly.

1 God knows. She would, like a shot, if it
was anyone but Emily. But how can I tell
what she will do ! She was always too many
for me.'

And with a sigh the old man hurried upstairs
again  to see how She was going on.' His oldwife
had done everything for him all the long
lifetime they had spent together. But his alarm
and awkward anxiety were touching. He would
fain have done everything for her with his
clumsy, old, trembling hands and slow comprehension

of invalid needs. How should an old
man who had been used to have everything
done for him learn in a moment the arts of a
sick-room  the recollection of everything, the
softened touch, the subdued sounds'? Love
itself is not enough to teach all these. And old
Mr. Sandford had been less used to help himself
than any duke. To have your wife thereto
do everything for you, as is the habit of the
class to which he belonged, involves a far closer
service than any valet would give. The poor
old gentleman, with the best will in the world,
was quite incapable. He required her to tell
him what to do. * My dear !' the appeal of
fifty years, which had always been met on her
part by the instant response of a service which
was far more than duty, came to his lips every
moment almost with at ouch of indignation : for
if she would not tell him how could he be
expected to know ? But he could not keep
away from her. He wanted to see with his own
eyes every moment that she was getting a little
better. She had never been ill, and he did not
believe in her being ill ; but still if she should be
ill what would become of him and everything ?

His very heart seemed to stop beating at the
thought.

These two had come to that point of age and
long continuance when it is scarcely possible to
believe in an end at all. Everything went on
with such a steady, gentle routine, one day
following another, each the same as the other, a
steady succession of hours and habits, and
invariable ways. They were so accustomed toit
all : they were past the age of change : they
were so easily satisfied, wanting nothing more
than the warmth of the fireside, and their mutual
talks, and their sober, moderate meals, and to
see John growing up such a fine fellow ! That
was the one quicker, keener throb of happiness
in the midst of their well-being. That he should
go away would indeed be a wrench. But then
there was no reason to suppose that his going
away would be for anything but his good, and
it was inevitable, a thing they had always known.
And then they would have his letters, and his
visits now and then, and always themselves to
fall back upon, the inseparable pair, the two who
were one. It is true that everybody knows that
everybody else must die, but there seemed no

reason in the world why this life should not goon
for ever, so peaceful, so uneventful, doing no
harm to anybody, doing good, demanding so
little, and in itself so contented, without further
desire or expectation. Mr. Sandford had long
got over that other human sentiment which fears
its own well-being, and feels that, the more comfortable
you are, the more likely it is that fate
will come down and crush you. Fate had nothing
to do with this old pair : they were good,
religious people, who had suffered much in this
life, but to whom God had given a peace which
was very sweet. And why should it be broken
by any startling change? Why should it be
disturbed ? It was not an idea to be entertained
for a moment. Did not all experience prove
that that which hath been is the thing which
shall be ? He went upstairs, trying to make no
noise with his heavy tread, to convince himself
that every moment she was getting a little better,
and that no change was possible, except for
good.

The answer to John's letter could not come
till the second day ; as a matter of fact, it did
not come till the fourth. All these three mornings

he came down early, and was at the door
to meet the postman as he went his rounds,
which did not mean that John doubted his mother's
coming, but only that he was very anxious,
and eager to know what she would say.
Not only her answer, but what she would say.
Was it possible that her reply would be in the
old, formal tone, as to a little boy who knew no
better ? or would she now perceive that he was
at least an independent human creature, capable
of feeling, capable of knowing, and address him
as such ? John was almost more anxious to resolve
this question than to know whether she
was coming. Of course she must be coming.
Who could resist the appeal, that was at once
from her mother and from her son ! He had forgotten
by this time how very little had been her
mother's part in it, and believed sincerely that
he had said everything that had been suggested
to him. In the first pang of astonished disappointment
with which he found that there was
no letter the first day, all his calculations were
confounded, for he had never for a moment supposed
that she would not answer, and answer at
once. But then his hopes sprang up, and he
VOL. I. M

said to himself that she must be thinking it over,
and arranging how to come, and that she did
not wish to write till she could tell him exactly
the hour she would arrive. On the third day,
grand mamma was downstairs again, looking
paler, but still smiling. She took his face between
her two thin hands (how thin they had
grown, and all the veins showing), and whispered
in his ear, as he stooped over her :

< What does Emily say V

Always Emily. He could not get rid of
Emily.

There is no letter yet, grandmamma.'

Ah ! she will be waiting till she can settle
exactly which train she is to come by,' said the
old lady, and gave him a kiss, and lay smiling,
thinking, no doubt, of her daughter, who was
coming. She could not talk much, for she was
still very weak.

On the fourth morning the letter arrived.

It is for you, Mr. John,' said the postman.

Yes, yes,' cried the boy ; ' I know it is forme.'


He hurried in, and shut the parlour-door, that
no one might disturb him in reading it. At all

events, it was a letter, he could see in a moment,
and not the usual little formal note about his
health and her health, which had been enough
for him when he was a child. John's heart beat
very high as he began to read, but gradually
calmed down, and became quite still, scarcely
moving at all in his breast. For his mother's
letter was not the kind of letter to encourage
the beatings of any heart.

My dear John,

1 I have received your letter, partly
with pleasure, seeing that you write in a much
more intelligent and independent way than usual,
which I am glad to see  for at nearly seventeen
you are on the eve of manhood, and very different
things may be expected from you from those
which all your friends were content with when
you were a child. But I also read it with pain,
for there seems to me an idea in it that, if you
insist very much, you are sure to get your own
way, a sort of thing which perhaps is natural,
seeing how you have been brought up, and that
no doubt my father and mother have indulged
you very much : but which is not good for you,

m2

and will expose you to disappointment even
greater than we are doomed to by nature. How
can you know that it would be a good thing if
1 were to come ? You ought rather to understand
that, as I have not come all these years, it
is because your grandparents and I, who know
all the circumstances, have decided that it is
better I should not come. This 1 probably could
not explain to your satisfaction, but it was
settled to theirs and to mine long ago  and you
cannot expect that I should depart from a resolution
which I did not make without pain  because
you, a boy who knows nothing about it,,
have been taken with a fancy that you would
like to see your mother. It is quite natural, no
doubt, that you should wish it, though I cannot
suppose that it would make any particular difference
to you whether your wish was granted
or not. You are at an age when a mother is
not of much consequence, and, if you had been
brought up with me, you would probably be
very impatient of me, and prefer to get out of
my way, like most boys of your age. And I
am sorry to say that I don't think you would
like me much if you saw me. Your ideal of

course is my mother, and I am not at all like
my mother. If anything should happen that
would make it necessary for us to be together,
necessity will help us to get on with each other ;
but for the present, so long as there is no necessity,
it is best to go on as we are doing.
There are reasons, quite needless to enter into,
which make it out of the question, unless it
were a matter of life and death, that I should
go to Edgeley. I am sorry to disappoint you,
but it is much better you should know.

I shall always be glad to hear how you are
getting on. I am glad to know that something has
been done towards deciding what you are to do
for your living. Of course my father and mother,
who have brought you up, are the right persons
to settle that, and I approve in general, though
I should like to know what they are doing most
particularly, and to give my advice, though I
should not interfere. For yourself, pray write
to me whenever you feel disposed, and I will
answer to the best of my ability, though I cannot
always promise you to do what you desire.
1 Your affectionate mother,

1 Emily Sandford.

'Pes  I am sorry to hear that my mother is
not so strong as usual. Let us hope she will
recover her old spirits as the spring comes on.
I daresay she was a little low when she thought
it would do her good to have a talk with me.
Tell her, if she thinks a little, she will remember
that it is very doubtful whether we should either
of us like it, and, as for the people being ignorant,
the more ignorant the better, it seems tome.'


John had been palpitating with expectation
and hope when he opened this letter. He came
gradually down, down, as he read it. All
through, he felt that it was Emily who was writing
to him, a woman whom he knew a great
deal about (and yet nothing), and whom he did
not like very much  not his mother.

It seemed likely that he had no mother. The
loss of all that he had been expecting and looking
forward to, and the strangest sense of
whirling down, down, as if everything was giving
way under him, made him sick and cold.
When he had read it to the last word, he folded
it up carefully, with a very grave face, and

put it into his pocket. He was far too serious
for the angry impulse of throwing it into the
fire. He was not angry so much as crushed
and overawed. He felt himself altogether put
down from the position which he had taken.
She had acknowledged that he was no longer
a child, and yet she treated him as if he knew
nothing, understood nothing. The injury to his
pride, to his heart, to all that was individual in
him, was more than words could say.

Mrs. Sandford looked at him wistfully when
she came downstairs (always a little later). She
caught his hand when he came and stood by her
sofa looking down at her, thinking how bright
and liquid her eyes were. How large and deep
the sockets seemed, as if they had widened out,
and what a pallor had come upon her face  her
little face ! She was a small woman, but now her
face was like the face of a child, all but the widened
circle about her eyes. She put her hand upon
his, the touch felt like a feather, and looked up
at him wistfully, but without speaking. He had
gone out immediately after breakfast, half stupefied,
and taken a long walk, his chief object
being not to see her, not to give her any information.

But he was obliged to answer the
question in her eyes.

I have had a letter, grand mamma. She says
she can't come.'

Can't come, John !' The old lady kept looking
up at him, till suddenly her eyes grew dim
with two great tears. She clasped her hands
together with a low cry. He could see the
disappointment, which was so unexpected, go
over her like a flood. She could not say anymore.
Her lips quivered  it was all she could
do in her weakness not to break down altogether,
and whimper and moan like a child.
1 Can't come !' she repeated, after a time, with
little broken sobs. 

Grandmamma, don't take it like that, and
break my heart. It is my fault. I began to
write as if it was me only, and I felt it a good
deal and went on and on from myself, not from
you. She thinks it was only my letter, only I
that wanted her. She seems to have thought
that it was rather impudent of me to ask.'

She could not have done that. She could
not have done that,' said the old lady. She was
so used to mastering herself that she had by this

time succeeded in doing so, though her lip trembled
and she kept softly drying her eyes : for at
her age the eyes only get full with a dew of
pain, they do not pour forth easy floods of tears
like those that are young. John felt that she
was, like himself, cast down from a height of
expectation. She began to smile after a time
very pathetically with her quivering lips. ' We
mustn't forget,' she said,  that it's just Emily's
way.'

Oh, grand mamma,' cried John, 'can't you
understand that I don't want to think any more
of her as Emily. She is not Emily to me.'

I We must not judge her hardly, my dear.
She has always had a way of her own. She
was one that never could bear the idea of disgrace
or  anything of that kind. She would
bear a great deal, but, if anyone brought discredit
on the family, that she could not bear.
She was more like a man than a woman in that
way. A woman has to put up with everything,
John.'

I I don't see why she should, any more than a
man.'

I can't tell you the rights of it. I never was

a clever woman like Emily. From her childhood
she learned everything a great deal better than I
could ever do. She could learn anything when she
was a girl, she was so bright and clever, and I can't
tell you how proud we were of her, John ; oh ! so
proud. There seemed nothing she couldn't do.
Especially her father  he was proud of her. leant
she used to talk, and quite go beyond me.
But anything that was a discredit she couldn't
bear. I don't say but what it's unjust to expect
it of us ; but I do think it's best when a woman
just puts up with everything, as I was always
taught it was my duty to do.'

6 You speak as if there was something she
would not put up with,' he said.

Here Mrs. Sandford looked at him anxiously.

4 Oh, my dear,' she cried. ' Some day or other
everything is found out in this world. I never
put any confidence in secrets for my part.
Though they may be ever so carefully kept,
they always come out in the end.'

Is there a secret, grand mamma % I had been
beginning to fear something of the kind. And
they think, perhaps,' said John, with indignation,
that I am a child, and cannot be trusted  that

whatever it is I must not know it. But I have
always felt there was something. Whatever it
is, if it affects us, surely I ought to be told it
now.'

Mrs. Sandford had been thoroughly recalled
to herself by his words. She cast a glance of
terror round her, lest, perhaps, some one might
be within hearing.

6 Secret !' she said. ' Oh, John, what has put
that into your head ? Yes, yes ; there have been
things in the family which were very unpleasant
but they are all past and over, and what is
the use of going back upon them 1 If there
was anything you ought to know, you may be
sure Emily and her father would have told you.
As for me, I am not the one  I am not '

1 Grandmamma, you are ill again.'

1 Oh, no, I'm not ill  not anything to mind.
Never take any notice if I cry. I just cant
help it, John. I'm ill, you know, and not very
strong. I cry for nothing, because I can't help
it, because Fm old. I have grown a great deal
older, don't you think so, in the last three weeks 1
and that was why I wanted Emily, partly.
There were things I wanted to tell her. I wanted

to tell her about that  don't you remember,

that What am I saying 1 The like of him

could have nothing to do with us, nothing at
all. Emily ! Oh, I want her, I want to tell her

something  I want '

John had no more than time to ring the bell
hurriedly, to hold her in his arms lest she should
fall from the sofa, when another of her attacks
came on. He had not seen it before, and he was
very much frightened and distressed. It began
with a sort of faint, followed by violent spasms
of pain ; it was dreadful to see her, so fragile
and soft as she was, thus fighting for her life,
and the scene made John's heart bleed. But
he was pushed out of the room by-and-by, when
his grandfather, looking, oh! so haggard and
anxious, and the doctor, in his brisk, professional
way, came in. They bade him stay outside that
he might be ready to run for anything that was
wanted, which the boy understood well enough
was only to get him out of the way. Presently
the struggles grew less ; the attack went off as
the others had done. And he was allowed to
help to carry her to her bed. She gave him a
faint little smile as he laid down her head upon

the pillow, and made a slight movement as if to
put up her face to kiss him. Then she spoke
confusedly, as if her brain were not quite clear :
1 Emily, Emily,' she cried, as if to some one at
a distance. ' Oh, Emily, tell the boy: if it should
be my last word ; Emily ! tell the boy.'

CHAPTER XL

THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

Mrs. Sandford did not rise from her bed again.
She disappeared into that mystery of the death-chamber,
in which the fits of suffering that
mark the different steps of progress towards
the end, alternate with long intervals of calm,
intervals which seem so long because there is
no incident in them, and in which another series
of habits springs up as if that state also might
last for ever. The hours for medicine, the
hours for food, the little toilet so painfully
accomplished, after which the patient feels
weary but refreshed, and is said to have ' a
better colour,' a more hopeful aspect  all those
laws and rules, a perfect routine of subdued
being, were set up, and the alarm of the household
was calmed.

When John was admitted now and then to
sit by her for a little while, and hold her transparent
hand, he felt a great consolation in that
established routine of affairs. It seemed to
afford a solid framework out of which she
could not slip. She might not get better, perhaps
; but still she would remain there, which
was much. John sat down by the bedside at
first with awe and anxiety, but, soon getting
accustomed to it, lost his fears.

1 You are better to-day,' he would say, wistfully.


Oh, almost well,' said the old lady ; and he
believed it, though with a silent doubt down at
the bottom of his heart ; a doubt which was so
painful and unpleasant that he would not listen
to it, nor give any heed.

One night, about a week after the receipt of
his mother's letter, he was allowed to watch her
for part of one night, the nurse having occasion
for rest, and the grandfather, too, being exhausted
with much watching. It was the
middle of the night when John's watch began,
arid she was very quiet, asleep, and likely to
want nothing, the nurse had said.

'If you'll sit quite still here behind the
curtain, with the light shaded, most likely she'll
never stir at all : but, if she does, you must call
me ; now mind you do call me, whether it's
anything of consequence or not.'

John promised, and sat down motionless
within the shadow of the curtain. He had
never in his life been up at such an hour, and
the profound silence of the night, and the solemnity
of the occasion, at once overawed and
excited the boy. He felt as if this fading life
was in his hands. If she woke, if she wanted
anything, his action, perhaps, might save her 
who could tell % He felt, as the inexperienced
are so apt to feel, that an accident or miracle
was always possible, and that some little matter
might at any time arrest the progress of dying,
and bring a sufferer back from the verge of the
grave. But she did not stir. She was very
quiet, as the nurse had said she would be. And
then he got frightened of the stillness, and
thought that she might have died.

This oppression of quietness grew upon him
so that he moved the curtain slightly to look at

her: and then John was more startled still,
driven almost into a panic by the sight of her
open eyes, which turned to him when he moved
though she did not move her head. She was
lying back upon her pillow like a child, so
small, her little face encircled by her cap, her
eyes turned to him, two lamps of light amid the
stillness and the dimness. There was nothing
dim or still in them, they shone with all the
brightness of a life which was inexhaustible,
perhaps even with humour in them, but certainly
with a clearness and vigour more remarkable,
John thought, than he had ever seen in them before.
He faltered * Grandmamma !' in his alarm,
though he knew that he ought to have taken
no notice, that he ought to have kept perfectly
still in order that she might go to sleep again,
and not be disturbed.

She did not say anything for a moment, but
gave him a soft reply with her eyes, then feebly
put out her hand. She smiled when she felt
the touch of his hands clasping it, but for
some time did not attempt to speak. Then,
after awhile, she called him faintly.

VOL. I. N

< John !' It took some time to form her

words. 'I'm glad you're there. I wanted to
speak to you  my boy.'

Yes, grandmamma/ He had knelt down
at the bedside, where his head was on a level
with hers as it lay on the pillow. She moved
her other hand, as if to give him a caress.

'You've been a good boy. Whatever may
happen afterwards, you've been a good, good
boy to me. Always remember that, whatever
happens. John, it's about  Emily ; I want to
speak to you.'

She lay still a little and rested, and then
resumed,

Emily is not  like me. She's one that is 
more difficult to get on with. She thinks you're
like him, and you are  like him. I see it, too.
But never mind  there was good in him 
plenty of good. You mustn't  be discouraged
my boy.'

She put her left hand upon his shoulder  it
was a great effort for her  and faintly patted
him with her fingers. So faintly : like the
touch of a bird.

And she seems  harder than she is. It's her

principle. She has more  love in her  than
she knows. If you wait long enough, it will
come out. John  remember that. She will not
let  her heart speak. It's her  principle. She
has  always done that. She has never  let her
heart speak.' The old lady stirred a little in her
bed. Her voice strengthened for a moment.
Except once,' she said.  And you know how
that  turned out. She blames me, for I  was
always fond of him  John.'

Her voice was so faint he could scarcely hear
it, though every word was so precious to him,
and though it was so hard to understand.

1 Poor dear,' she resumed, * poor dear  if ever
you should see him  you can tell him  I  always
prayed for him  to  the  end.'

Who is it, grand mamma ? Oh, one word 
tell me  who is it V

The light in her eyes sickened a little. Perhaps
she did not hear him. They wandered,
fixed on his face for a moment, then strayed
uncertain to other things.

'It's about Emily,' she said, 'Emily  don't
you know, Emily ? You will think  she is hard
but, no  that's her principle. Where  where

is she? I thought  just now  she was here.
Emily !' She raised her voice a little, to call.
And then a smile came over her face. Her hand
dropped from John's shoulder. ' Yes she said ;
you are right, Emily  you always are right.
I'll talk  no more. I'll go to sleep

John remained on his knees, he did not know
how long. He was still there when the nurse
came in from her sleep.

I hope you have not been talking to her, or
crying, to excite her.'

1 She spoke to me a little ; it was not my fault.
I found her with her eyes wide open, and, when
she saw me, she spoke.'

'You ought not to have let her. This is
always the way when one of the relations interferes.
How is one to do one's nursing, when relations
interfere ? There should have been another
to take the night duty, and no amateurs here.'

May I stay V said John, who was shivering
with cold and excitement.

No  get away, please, and leave me my sick
person to myself; relations is just the destruction
of everything. Oh, get away, please.'

John went downstairs to the fire, which had

been kept up all night, and over which he
crouched to warm himself. He was overwhelmed
with wonder and sorrow. Death had come
to the house, he felt it chill and cold, chilling
him to his very heart. And what did these
wandering words mean 1 Who was it for whom
she had prayed to the end ? He had his knees
almost in the fire, and yet he shivered with cold,
and with wondering and trying to understand.
He must have dozed a little, for the voice of his
grandfather, calling him, came to him through
some sort of miserable dream, in which he seemed
to be seeking some one and unable to find them
searching through wild distances and open
wastes. He heard the call repeated two or
three times, repeated through his dream, before
he woke, with the trembling hand of the old
man on his shoulder.

John ! John ! run for the doctor. John !'
Yes, grandfather,' he cried, starting to his
feet, still in his dream. Then he saw the cold,
grey dawn of the morning about him, and the
fire, and the well-known walls, and, with a shock
and terrible sense of reality, came to himself.
4 Is she worse V he cried.

Run, run ! Tell him he is to come directly
the old man cried, with a wave of his hand.

After the doctor had come and gone again,
there was another errand for John. He had
heard for himself what the doctor said. It had
been said before them both, and they had received
it in silence, saying nothing. Mr. Sandford
was standing up, leaning against the mantelpiece,
covering his eyes with his hand. He
said, in a low voice, it might have been to himself,


'We must send for Emily, now; she must
come. She must come  now.'

Shall I telegraph, grandfather V

6 Yes ; say the time has come. Say her mother
her mother '

And then there rose, in full wintry splendour,
the day. It seemed to burst into sunshine all at
once, as John came back from the telegraph
office. It had been grey and misty before. But,
suddenly, in a moment, the sun burst out over
the top of the dark trees, in a flush and glow of
triumph, and the village street blazed from end
to end. It had rained the day before, and the
road was wet and glistening, giving back a

reflection from every broken edge and bit of
pavement. It seemed to arrest and take hold
of John in his cloud of trouble and unaccustomed
misery, and flash him all over with
light and warmth. He was astonished by it,
as if it had been some great mysterious comet,
and the suddenness of the illumination came
into his mind and memory with an aching
contrast to everything else about. It seemed
to summon him to life and all its exertions,
to hope and prosperity and activity ;
above all, it moved in his young soul an eager
desire to do something, to fling himself into
work, whatever it was; to begin in earnest.
Alas, all that he had to do was to go back to
the silent house, to meet and go through that
awful day of waiting  that day in which nothing
can be begun or done  in which all is waiting,
in which every hour seems a whole day,
although one would give one's life to prolong
that which this endless steady slow succession
of flying moments is carrying away. The two
watchers sat down sombre to meal after meal,
at which each made a pretence of eating for the
sake of the other, or rather that Mr. Sandford

made a pretence of eating, for John, poor John,
restless and unhappy, with nothing else to do,
eat almost more than usual, ashamed of himself,
yet feeling the relief of the dinner which was the
only thing he had to do, the only break to those
monotonous, endless hours.

Emily will arrive by the seven o'clock train.
You must get the cab at Johnson's, and go over
to meet her, John.'

Yes, grandfather.'

And tell her her mother is if anything a little
better. She may rally still. You will lose no
time, John.'

No, grandfather.'

This was all the conversation that passed
between them. It was repeated in about the
same words three or four times during the day.
For what was there else to say ? All was either
too trifling or too solemn. How could they talk
of her, lying upstairs upon the edge of the
eternal world? And how, she being there,
could anything else be spoken of? The day
went on like a century. Grandfather went up
and down stairs, trying to walk softly, stealing
into the room above on tiptoe, coming out again

after a while shaking his head. John downstairs
sat still and listened, sometimes dozing,
in the long strain of that expectancy, waiting,
almost wishing, for the news that would break
his heart to hear. At last the evening came,
and it was time to see after the cab at Johnson's,
and to set out to meet his mother. To meet his
mother ! How strange the words sounded ! and
yet he did not think much of them now. He
drove to the station across the edge of the
common, watching all the lights in the cottage
windows staling out into the night.

There were several people arriving by the
train, as John stood half stupefied on the platform,
still vaguely gazing, looking at the dark
figures undistinguishable, which flitted to and
fro against the background of the lights : the
flicker of the lamps in the wind, the movement,
the noise, the little crowd, confused him, even
if he had not been confused before by all the
effects of the domestic tragedy. He looked
helplessly at the moving figures, wondering
should he know her whom he sought, wondering
if she had come, wondering which could be her ?
He felt now, at this moment for which he

believed himself to have wished, that if she had
not come it would be a relief, then he could go
back all the easier, more peacefully if he went
back alone. Even as the thought passed
through his mind, one of the figures which he
had been following with his eyes, that of a tall
woman, detached itself quickly from the group
of the others, and came towards him.

You are John V she asked.

Yes,' he answered, with a gasp.

Have you a cab ? This is all I have brought.
Let us lose no time.'

She had put her hand in his as she had come
up to him. She gave him no other salutation,
no kiss ; but followed, as the boy, once more
with the sensation of falling down, down, from
he knew not what height, led the way to where
the cab was standing. She put in her bag,
stepped in hastily, motioned him to her side,
and in another moment they were driving away
together, seated there, this mother and son who
had not met for years. John felt timid, altogether
stupid, unable to say a word, his heart
one moment giving a great throb, the next like
a lump of lead in his breast.

How is my mother V she asked, ? is she still
alive?'

It was like a stab to John to have this question
put to him in so many words, though he knew
that it was a question of how long she might
survive.

I was told he said, * to tell you that your
mother was a little better and might rally.'

1 Might rally V she said, thoughtfully, ' I should
scarcely think it likely.' She was quite calm.
John seated so that he felt her breath upon
him. could scarcely help shivering with a nervous
chill which seemed to come from her. She
remarked this at once.

1 You are cold,' she said. ' Put up the window
at your side ; no doubt it is your nerves :
you have been kept on the strain all day, or
perhaps for some days. It is not a good thing
for you at your age : put up the window, I will
keep mine open ; I like the air. Have they let
you be with her V

I A little last night  not before.'

I I am glad they had so much sense as that.
She would talk to you, no doubt, and you
would be very much affected. Poor boy !'

There seemed a momentary wavering in her,
as if she might have turned to him with something
like tenderness. Her arm seemed to him
to move. He thought she was going to put it
round him, and his heart filled with a sudden
rush of warmth and softness. His mother!
But either she had never meant it, or she
changed her mind. She altered her position
only enough to change from one hand to
another the little bag she carried. And yet he
could not help feeling that she meant more
than that.

6 Did she say anything to you %  I mean
anything beyond what she would naturally
say?'

She spoke to me about you, mother.'

Once more the dark figure at his side moved.
A sort of thrill seemed to run through her. She
took a little time apparently to compose and
command herself.

< What did she say to you of me V

I did not understand it,' said John.

She turned, and seemed to look at him as if
asking herself whether this simplicity was assumed

or not. Then, with a touch of divination,
put her hand upon his arm for a moment, and
repeated,

1 Poor boy ! I can see you are half-dazed
with trouble and fatigue,' she said.

Mother !' said John, ' mother '

Again there was that faint thrill and moving
in the profile that showed against the dim
night of the further window. There was a
soft suffusion of whiteness in the air from an
unseen moon, and he could see the outline of
her face and figure against it. But, if she had
been moved by any impulse of love, she restrained
it once more.

I would rather,' she said, quickly, * that you
used that name as little as possible while I am
here. I am your mother, certainly ; but we've
been separated for a long time, and I have
my reasons, chiefly for your own sake, for preferring
not to be talked about among your
village people, or discussed who I am. I
mean no unkindness she added, after a little
pause.

Must I not call you mother?' asked the boy.

He was so tired, so dazed, as she said, so broken
down with weariness and wonder and grieving
that the sharp tone in his voice was more the
petulance of a child than the indignation which
began faintly to rise among the other emotions
that were too much for him.

'Not except when we are alone,' she said.
Is this the village % are we near V

The carriage stopped with a sudden creaking
and jar. John had not observed where they
were. He stumbled out now to his feet and
held the door for her to get out. The
door of the house was open, and his grandfather
stood in the opening. The old man came down
through the little garden slowly, shuffling
with his heavy feet. There seemed to John's
feverish eyes some change, he scarcely knew
what, in the house, as if the expectation, the
waiting, had come to an end.

Emily,' said old Mr. Sandford, ' you are too
late. Your mother is dead.'

'Dead she said, standing still at the gate.

Half an-hour ago.'

The two, father and daughter, stood facing

each other, with John behind not able to convince
himself that there was anything real in
it, that it was not all a dream.

Do you mean me to go back again, straight,'
she said, * from your door V

CHAPTER XII.

EMILY.

She came into the parlour first, where she sat
down close to the fire. She shivered as she
looked round, Mr. Sandford and John both
standing behind looking at her. There was
indeed already upon the house that air of revolution,
the cold strangeness of a place which is
no longer the centre of domestic life, but fit
only for an ante-chamber and waiting-room for
those who cannot be at the point of deepest
interest. There was an unusual chill in this
place which had always been so warm.

John could see now for the first time what
his mother was like. She did not resemble
either of her parents. Her features were
marked and high ; her complexion of an ivory
paleness; her hair quite black in original

colour, with, a thread or two of grey  altogether
a tragic woman whom nobody could
pass without a certain interest. She showed
no emotion, nothing beyond the seriousness of
aspect which was evidently habitual to her. Fora
little time even she said nothing, but held
with a shiver her hands to the fire. Her father
stood beside her leaning upon the mantel-piece,
looking down upon the hearth, and for sometime
there was not a word spoken.

Half-an-hour ago she repeated at length, ina
low voice. f Did she know I was on the
way?'

1 For twenty hours she has scarcely taken any
notice. The last was '

The last must have been what she said to the
boy,'  his mother spoke of him as if he were a
thing and not a person  ' and that was, he says,
about me, something he did not understand. I
hope there was no talk about affairs.'

'Emily, you are not softened, even by
death.'

It is not in me, I suppose,' she said, with a
sigh. Then she turned round to John. ' Why
did you not tell me that she was ill? You

YOL. I.

wrote from yourself. You said nothing about
her  or nothing to speak of. If you had told me
she was ill, 1 might have been in time.'

They both turned and looked at him, his
grand-father with heavy eyes and a blank
aspect of exhaustion and helplessness, but, with
so much expression as was left in him, reproachful
too.

And all power of self-defence, of anything but
submission and acquiescence, seemed taken from
John.

I did not think of it,' he said, giving
himself up, as he was dimly conscious, to total
misconstruction, but what did it matter ? Nothing
seemed to be of any consequence in the
subtle misery which had invaded the house.
John did not feel even that he was aware of the
cause of it. He scarcely thought of his grandmother,
dead. He knew only that where all
had been so happy and full of tenderness there
was nothing but a chill misery and desolation,
with a fault of his somehow involved, he could
not tell how.

Of course I should have come at once,' she
repeated, turning round again to the fire, with

her hands held over it. * We did not always
understand each other. We were not like each
other. How can one help it if that is so V

Children are not always like their parents,'
Mr. Sandford said.

Some are not.' She half turned towards John
again with a movement of her hand as if directing
her father's attention to him. ' There are
likenesses  that take away one's breath.'

1 Ah  yes  it may be so,' the old man said.
Then, as if waking up, ' Will you take anything ?
The house is upset  there is nobody to give any
orders. Still,' he said, looking round at the table
where a cloth was laid, ' there are meals all the
same.'

She looked up at him with a momentary
softening in her face, and put her hand on his
arm.

1 Poor father,' she said.

Yes  I'll be poor, poor enough by myself. To
begin  that sort of thing at my time of life 
after nearly fifty years '

Be thankful that you have had fifty years 
without any trouble,' she said. And then, 'I
should like to see her. No doubt she is changed,



much changed, since I saw her last. Don't stir,
father  sit down and rest  you are ready to
drop with fatigue. The boy will show me the
way.'

1 1 hope you won't think it strange. I  I
couldn't go with you, Emily.'

No. I understand it all. Sit down there in
your own chair.'

The old man seated himself with a sudden
burst of sobbing.

It's not mine, it's her chair. I like it so. I
like it so ! For fifty years ! and she will never
sit here more.'

Poor father !' she said again. Her face
softened more and more as she looked at him ;
she stooped down and kissed his forehead.
Now, come,' she said to John. To him there
was no softening. She gave him a fixed look as
she signed to him to lead the way  a look of
recognition, of stern investigation, which stirred
the boy's being. It seemed to call his faculties
together, and awake him from the torpor of consternation
and grief. He forgot almost where
he was going, and what he was to see.

They went together into the room, already all

in order, in the chill and rigid decorum of a
chamber of death. All was white and cold.
The curtains laid back, the white coverlet folded,
a fine embroidered handkerchief covering
the spot scarcely indented in the pillow where
the head lay. John went in with his light in
his hand, though there were candles on the
table, in a tumult of personal feeling, which for
the moment swept away all the natural emotion
which that scene was calculated to call
forth. He did not think of what lay there,
but of the stranger so near him and yet so
distant, so coldly serious, without any grief,
only the subdued regret of a spectator, and
with that keen observation of himself underneath,
like a spectator too, but a spectator
almost hostile. He had never known in all his
life before what it was to be judged coldly,
weighed in the balances and found wanting.
His very soul seemed penetrated by the look,
which fixed on something, he knew not what,
that was hostile in him. Her eyes, as she
followed him, searched into him, and he felt
nothing but those keen looks going through
and through his soul.

But when he came face to face with that little
waxen image which lay upon the bed, a flood of
other feelings poured through the boy's mind.
For the first time he saw that which was Something
awful and solemn, yet Nothing. Sometimes
the dead retain the looks of life, and lie and smile
upon us as if they slept ; but sometimes the
effect is very different, and, after a long illness,
the worn-out body loses all the characteristics of
identity. His mother went up to the bed, passing
him by, and, without a word, lifted the
handkerchief. When John saw what was underneath,
he gave a great cry, a cry almost of
horror ; his limbs trembled under him.

1 They've taken her away,' he said, hoarsely,
they've taken her away

The other spectator said not a word. She
knew better. Death was to her no wonder.
She had lived long enough to see it in all its
aspects. She stood looking down upon the little
body, the little, little body shrunken out of all
semblance of life ; the worn-out garment of long
living, never big enough for the soul that had
inhabited it, and cast it off as if it had never
been hers.

1 No,' she said at last ; ' they have not taken
her away. This is all she has left.'

She took the candle out of John's trembling
hand, and held it so that the light fell on the
small head surrounded by the white cap, and
the face in which no expression lingered. The
room was very strange. The white bed laid
out in rigid lines, the small and solemn thing
laid therein, the black, tall figure standing by
throwing the light down from her hand. She
was not like a woman by her mother's bed-side,
but like a solemn spectator expounding the
mysteries of life and death.

People are as different,' she said, ' in their
dying as in their living. She has taken everything
with her she could take. She wouldn't
leave even a look for me, as if she thought I
could have come, and did not. But I'll not excuse
myself here. Mother 'she stooped down,
and kissed the waxen forehead  ' good-bye.
You would have been a good mother to one
more like yourself; she has been a good mother
to you '

John said no word in reply. He had fallen
down by the bedside, with a sickening sense of

loss which was more than grief. He could not
speak, or even think. His young soul seemed
to go out in a gasp towards the nothingness that
seemed before him. He had thought she would
be dear and beautiful still in her death  as people
said  more dear, more beautiful than in life.
But this was not as people said. His heart sank
into depths unspeakable. Only last night what
words she had spoken to him from that bed.

And now, and now !

Poor boy !' said his mother, with her hand on
his shoulder, 'you have never seen death before
! Come away ; she would not like you to
stay here ; never come again. And forget that.
For once she has not thought of other people.
She has taken all she could away with her ; her
own look, as well as all the rest. Rise up, and
come away.'

John obeyed her, scarcely knowing what he
did. And so presently did all the house. She
took the command of everything instantly, as if
it was her right to do so. There was not much
conversation, as may be supposed. She sat
down by the fire, after the meal at which she
eat moderately without any look of reluctance,

and talked a little, in the same grave tone, to her
father. But there were no tears, no words of
sorrow. The old man gave a broken sort of account
of his wife's illness, subdued into a narrative
of facts by the influence of that serious, but
quite conventional, figure opposite to him ; while
John sat at the table behind, with a book before
him, which he did not read, listening in a miserable
way to every word, feeling a wretchedness
which was beyond description, but which could
not get vent in the ordinary way, because of the
atmosphere about him, which was full of the new
presence. He had been hungry, poor boy, but
could not eat, feeling that to be able to eat at
such a moment was more horrible than words
can say. And his brain was giddy for want of
sleep. Body and soul were in the same condition
of exhaustion and misery. But still the
slow exchange of those subdued voices over the
fire held him like a spell.

The next days passed slowly and yet swiftly,
every moment with leaden feet, yet, when they
were gone, looking like a dream. And everything
was done without trouble, it seemed ; in
perfect order and quiet, the whole house pervaded

by the strong, still presence of this stranger.
Tf there had been a confusion before between his
mother and the daughter of the old people, the
Emily whom he knew so well, there was no confusion
now. John's mother had disappeared into
the mists from amid which her idea had never
clearly developed itself. She had been swept
out of his horizon altogether. He saw still very
clearly in that far distant background, the father
who was dead  but not her any more. And
this was Emily, who had come to set everything
right. It was almost a difficulty for him not to
call her by that name. She was a very useful
and very powerful personality in the house; but,
as a matter of fact, no one knew what to call
her. Her name was Sandford, like her father's.
It was on her travelling-bag and her linen, and
the book or two she carried with her. E. Sandford
; no more. To the servants it was a great
problem how to address her. Mrs. Sandford it
did not seem possible she should be ; and Miss
Sandford  there was something in her which
seemed to contradict that title. Something of
youth is associated with it, a possibility of dependence,
and a secondary place. But no such

ideas were compatible with the presence of this
new-comer, of whom no one out of the house
had ever heard before. The curate even, who
was the only visitor, looked at her with a sort
of diffident curiosity, and said < your daughter,'
when he spoke of her to the old man. She
went to the funeral, supporting her father on
her arm, while John walked with Mr. Cattle
behind. A great many people, indeed, it
might be said the whole parish, attended the
funeral ; and there were many tears among the
crowd. But Emily shed no tear. She kept her
father's arm in hers, and encouraged and supported
him. The old gentleman, who had been
so strong and hale, had sunk all at once into
helplessness ; his heavy foot, that had been so
steady, became shuffling and uncertain ; sometimes
he would sob feebly, like the voluntary
crying of a child, without tears.

And more and more to John was this melancholy
period like a dream. It all fitted in, one
event with another  the meeting at the station,
the pause at the door, when he thought for a
moment that Emily would have turned back,
and gone away without entering the house ; and

then that scene upstairs, the tall figure all in
Mack, her bonnet still on, a veil drooping over
her face, holding up the light over the snow-cold
whiteness of the bed and the dead face on the
pillow. He shuddered when he thought of that
scene. It was all a dream  a dream from which
he might perhaps awake to see all these sombre
circumstances disappear, and the old, sweet life
which was real  the only real life he could
think of, with the two old faces, full of love,
beaming on him  would come back. But that,
John knew very well, it would never do. And
what was it that lay before him ?  new work, a
strange place, his old grandfather left alone and
desolate, his mother of whom he had once
dreamed disappeared into thin air, and nothing
certain in the world but Emily, who was and

was not Emily, but But now the dream

within dreams had gone. He did not believe
that she was his mother. He began to think,
in all seriousness, that his mother must have
been a younger sister, one, perhaps, about whom
there was a mystery, who had perished along
with his father, who  but that seemed very
confusing and wonderful to think of  might

have been the subject of that secret of which
his grandmother had spoken. It was all so
strange, so little clear, that this solution of the
matter took stronger form in John's thoughts.

On the evening after the funeral they were
all seated together once more like the old arrangement,
two on different sides of the fire, the
boy in the middle with his book, but, ah ! so
different. No kind looks exchanged across him,
all meaning love to him ; no interest in what he
was doing; no consciousness on his part that he
was the principal figure, the centre of their
thoughts. John was of no importance now, and
felt it. He was in the background, an insignificant
unit in the group. His grandfather sat,
saying nothing, limp in his chair, a little irritable,,
ready to watch any movement, while Emily (he
could not call her anything but Emily) sat between
the fire and the table with her work.
Presently John awoke to the consciousness that
she was talking of himself.

I should like you to tell me what you have
arranged about the boy?'

The boy ' was what she called him almost
always. And the words were never uttered

without rousing a sense of injury in John's
heart.

6 How can I tell you,' said Mr. Sandford,
about John or anything ? Do you think I'm
able to be troubled about that V

6 You must,' she said, in her steady, serious
tone, ' for in a day or two 1 shall have to go
back, and all business should be settled before I
go.'

1 Must !' said the old man, with unwonted fire ;
and then he fell again into the half whimpering
tone of complaint. ' I have never had that said
to me. I've been master in my own house, and
no one to lift their hand against me, near upon
fifty years.'

Father, you will recognise, if you think, that
I have a right to hear about the boy. You had
settled to send him to an engineer? So much I
know ; but who is it, and where ? It is far more
easy to tell me than to quarrel with me about
my right to ask.'

Mr. Sandford had already forgotten his moment
of wrath, or perhaps the good sense of
her argument had an effect upon him.

He has had all his schooling from the curate,

Mr. Cattley. You saw him, Emily. Now, Mr,

Cattley has a brother  in Liverpool.'

Her work fell from her lap.

In Liverpool  in Liverpool. I must be
dreaming. You don't mean that, father?'

1 1 remember now,' said the old gentleman,
i she thought you would object. She objected
herself, poor dear. But what does it matter,
one place or another ? It is the curate's brother
a kind man that would look after him. He
will be better there than anywhere. Mr. Cattleyy
's brother '

He shall not go there,' she said ; her pale
face coloured over a little, very little, and yet
enough to make a great difference. And she
looked her father steadily in the face as she
spoke.

Shall not ! Is it you or me that is the master?
She tried to persuade me, as a woman
may, but you, you, with your " shall not,"
your " shall not !" . . .' He rose up and began
in his wrath to walk about the room, recovering
something of his old force. ' I have never allowed
anyone to speak to me so.'

'Xot since I left home, father. You must

hear it again, for it is necessary you should.
He shall not go there. No, if there was no
other place for him in the world. There he
shall not go

What further development the quarrel might
have taken it is needless to speculate, for at this
moment John, who had been turning aimlessly
over a number of children's books, which had
been brought out of his grandfather's room, here
uttered a strange cry. What he said was,
4 Johnny May, Johnny May,' with a mixture of
trouble and satisfaction.

I knew that I had something to do with
that name he said.

The discussion stopped at once. Mr. Sandford
went back tremulous to his easy chair, and
Emily turned to the boy.

4 With that name  with your own name she
said.

1 Is it my name ?  but my name is Sandford.'

May Sandford,' she answered, fixing him
with her steady eyes.

More than that, more than that said John,
now I remember ! Papa was Mr. May. I am
Mr. May's little boy. He taught me to say that.

Now I remember everything. And my mother
would be Mrs. May, not Mrs. Sandford. Now I
know. You are not my mother. I felt sure of
it from the first,' said the boy.

Emily paled so that every shade of colour
w r went out of her face. It had been pale before,
but now it was like a stormy evening sky, of the
blankest whiteness. She looked at John for a
moment, with something like a quiver on her
steady lip. Then she turned to her father with
a singular smile and asked,

"Will you send him to Liverpool now ?'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT THE PARISH THOUGHT.

4 1 WANT to know who this woman is,' said Mrs.
Egerton. * She seems to take the control of
everything. They tell me that poor Mr. Sandford
does not venture to call his soul his own,
and John goes about as if all the life was cowed
out of him. Who is she, Mr. Cattley ! don't
you know?'

The curate was seated in the drawing-room
of the rectory, which was to him the place
most near to Paradise. It was twilight of the
wintry day, and almost dark, the blaze from the
fire dancing upon the walls and making glad
Mr. Cattley's heart. He loved, above everything
in the world, to sit and talk by that uncertain
light. Elle, who at sixteen was old
enough to have been the object of his devotion,

was sitting close against the great window
of the room, which looked upon the lawn and
waving trees, with a book in her arms. She was
making use of the very last rays of the daylight,
which were not strong enough for older eyes,
and was altogether enrapt in the book, and unconscious
of what was going on behind her,
though now and then a word would come to
her and she would return across the short distance
of several centuries to reply; for she was
deep in the ' Morte d' Arthur,' and inattentive to
everything else, except, as we have said, when
something which interested her, something upon
which she was ready with a word, came uppermost
and flashed across the keen young faculties
which found it no matter of difficulty to be in
two places at a time.

I suppose I ought to know,' said the curate,
1 for I have spoken to her three or four times.
"Whoever she is, she looks a lady and talks  with
great sense at least ; but more than that I know
nothing, not even her name.'

What relation is she to John ! I am glad
to hear she is a lady. Our dear little Airs.
Sandford, whom we all loved  yes, yes, she was

pa

true gentlewoman in her heart  but they were
what you would call bourgeois, don't you think ?
No, you must not shake your head at my French
word. There is no English word that expresses
what I mean.'

Middle-class,' the curate said.

Middle-class is such a big word, and it does
not mean the same thing. When I was young it
meant gentry, too, all who did not belong to the
very highest. Oh, yes, we are all as good gentlemen
as the King ; but I feel quite middle-class
myself, not living with duchesses, nor wishing
to do so.'

For that matter,' said Mr. Cattley, hotly,
there are very few duchesses who are worthy
to '

< Tie my shoe,' said the lady, with a laugh.
Let us take that for granted ; but middle-class is

not what I mean, exactly. And this Mrs. what

is her name '

 1 can't tell, indeed. He said "my daughter',
The servants called her Sandford, but whether
Mrs. or Miss '

Oh, not Miss, at all events. That woman has
gone through everything which is in life. I feel

sure of it. It is a handsome face, but a great deal
of trouble in it.'

'Must one be married to have that?' asked the
curate, with a little sigh.

Yes,' she replied, laughing again, for his little
sentimentalities amused her, though she did not
dislike them. ' One must have been married to
have a face with so much in it. You young ones
have your own vexations, no doubt, but not of
that kind.'

We young ones : does that mean Elle,' said
Mr. Cattley, < and me V

'You are as great innocents the one as the
other,' said Mrs. Egerton.

She was seated by the side of the fire, with a
little screen before her which shielded her face,
an ample figure in a black satin dress which
gave back a faint glimmer of reflection. The tea-table
beside her, half in light and half in shadow,
gave brighter dancing gleams, and the curate,
stooping forward with a certain tender eagerness,
saw a gigantic uncouth shadow of himself moving
with the movements of the light upon the further
wall. Behind Mrs. Egerton was the great
window, full of the fading twilight, fading quickly

into night, against which came the shadow
silhouette of Elle with her big book clasped in
her arms.

6 But this is abandoning our subject,' said
Mrs. Egerton. * The best thing is for me to
call.'

Far the best  you will make it all clear if
anyone can.'

I have not so much confidence in myself as
all that, but still I can try. It is curious to find
a sort of mystery about people one seemed to
know so well  or rather to find out how very
little we did know after all. And whose son
is John ? It never seemed necessary to inquire.
But this  lady : well, I will call her so if you like
it  seems to confuse everything. There may be
other daughters  or sons  half-a-dozen, for anything
we know.'

She spoke in the aggrieved tone natural to a
lady in the country, a semi clerical lady, entitled
through her brother to know everybody,
and finding that here was somebody whom she
did not know.

John  must be the son of a son  for otherwise
how could he be Sandford V

1 John has got a mother,' said Elle, nodding
from the window. ' He has not seen her for ten
years.'

1 Can this, then, be John's mother?' cried Mrs.
Egerton.

Oh, no said the curate, and ' Oh no,' cried
Elle, jumping up. 'I've seen them together,
and she looked at him as if she were not the least
fond of him ; so that couldn't be.'

4 She can't be very fond of him if she has never
come to see him for ten years.'

No,' said the curate, ' old Sandford was very
particular to say his daughter ; therefore she must
be John's aunt, I suppose. And aunts are not
always, not necessarily, fond of their '

'Do you hear that, Aunt Mary?' cried Elle,
placing herself in the full light of the fire with
the indifference of her age to scorched cheeks
and strained eyes.

Few people,' said Mr. Cattley, with subdued
enthusiasm, ' are so happy, Elle, as the boys and
you.'

1 My dear, it is quite true that I am not at all
necessarily fond of you  (you will make digressions
from our subject). Get up this moment,

and put aside your book till Joseph brings the
lamp. Now, Elle, do what I tell you. You will
ruin your eyes, and as for your complexion '

'Mr. Cattley, you are always flattering Aunt
Mary. She is a tyrant. She is as cruel as Nero.
She does not care for us at all.'

Hush  don't blaspheme,' Mr. Cattley said.

1 1 wish I had been here,' Mrs. Egerton resumed,
making an end of the interruption, ' to seethe
dear little woman herself before the end
came. How sad it is that one cannot be away
for two or three weeks without the chance of
finding some familiar face gone before one comes
back. No doubt she would have told me  indeed
one would naturally have asked if there
was anyone she would like to have sent for, or
wanted to see. And the daughter did not arrive
till she was gone ? How sad it all is. I will go
there tomorrow. Mr. Sandford, of course, knew
I was away.'

Everyone knows when you are away. It
makes a difference in the very atmosphere,' the
curate said.

Mrs. Egerton passed over this compliment
with a slight wave of her hand ; a smile would

have been enough, had it been possible to see it.
1 I shall go tomorrow,' she said. ' I should have
done so anyhow. And John  is anything settled
with your brother about him ? Is he going to
begin his work ? Poor boy ; he will go with an
aching heart. But he is so young.'

1 Do you think people don't feel when they are
young, Aunt Mary ? 1 think it is then they feel
most.'

Yes, Elle  and no : you feel, my dear, no one
more keenly ; but then you forget. Your heart
will be breaking, and then there will come a bright
day, a burst of sunshine, and it will spring up like
a bird in spite of you. Thank God for it. That is
the good of being young.'

6 There seems to be some hesitation now about
my brother,' said Mr. Cattley. ' This aunt, if she
is the aunt, seems to have interfered. I don't
know what is to come of it, except that the boy
is evidently unhappy.'

It is very clear,' said Mrs. Egerton, half
smiling, half serious, ' that I have been too long
away, and that I must try what I can make of it
at once.'

Oh, do ! No one ever understands like

you,' said the curate, with a sigh of relief.
And then the fireside talk floated off to other
things.

Mrs. Egerton set out next morning according
to her engagement. She was a comely woman
of forty-five, bright-eyed, grey-haired, ample, as
became her age, and making no pretensions to
be a day younger than she was. She had been
long a widow, so long that the recollection of
her married life was not much more than a
dream ; but her brother's household and children
had kept her from relapsing into any narrowness
of a celibate state, and conferred upon her that
larger and softer development of motherhood
which was not hers in fact. She was a woman in
whom a great many people had much confidence,
and who had, to tell the truth, a good deal of confidence
in herself. But she did not take herself
altogether seriously, as Mr. Cattley did. She
half laughed at the influence with which she
was credited, and laughed altogether at the
magic powers with which that one worshipper
endowed her. But still the worship had a
certain effect. Perhaps but for that she would
not have thought herself capable of unwinding

the tangled skein which had suddenly been
brought under her notice. A sense of half-fantastic
annoyance to find that the family she
knew so well was in reality not known to herat
all, which in Edgeley parish was a breach of
all custom and decorum ; and at the same time
a half satisfaction that these perplexing circumstances
had come to light while she was out of
the way, so that it was quite possible that everything
might be set right when she, the legitimate
confidential adviser of the parish, had
returned  was, in her mind, not unmixed with a
certain self-ridicule on the surface, and amusement
with herself for this certainty of setting
all right.

'How do I know they will tell me anymore
than the others V she said to herself: but
as a matter-of-fact she had no doubt whatever
that they would tell her more than the
others. She had been away for nearly a month,
and found a great many things to remark as she
walked down the village street. Perhaps she
was, as Elle had said, something of a despot  as
the benevolent head of a community, wishing the
greatest possible happiness of all, not only of

the greatest number, usually is. Her despotism
was of the benignant kind, but still here and
there it was resented by a too independent
spirit. That she should pause to put the baby
in a comfortable position in its perambulator,
and to give the young nurse a lesson as to carefulness
in driving it, was no doubt quite legitimate
; but when she stopped to say to Mrs. Box
at the shop  i I would not, if I were you, send
out the child with such a very young girl ; she
can't have sense enough to take proper care,'
Mrs. Box tossed her head a little, and said she
hoped she was as careful of her children as most
folks.

So you are, I don't doubt, yourself; but that
girl is too young, you should have some one
with more sense. I am sure you are able to
afford it,' the rector's sister said.

Mrs. Box from that day was unsettled in her
principles, and, though in the interests of trade
she made no reply, it became very clear to her
that clergy and clergy's belongings who interfered
with what they had nothing to do with, were
extremely troublesome. Mrs. Egerton, however,
walked on with a conviction that she had

said no more than was her duty, and a serene
unconsciousness of having fostered the first
flying seeds of Dissent.

She was disconcerted when, on being shown
into Mr. Sandford's parlour by Sarah  who
paused in the doorway to sniff and put her
apron to her eyes, and secure a word of sympathy
in respect to 'poor missis'  she found
the old man alone. The visit was by way of
being one of condolence to him ; but when Mrs.
Egerton looked round the familiar little room,
and saw no trace of the presence of any stranger,
she was, there could be no doubt, disappointed.
Her eye and mind took in this fact
even while she advanced to the old gentleman
with her hands stretched out, and a perfectly
genuine pang of regret and pity in her heart.
She herself missed the pretty, old, kind face
that always brightened at the sight of her. Her
eyes filled with natural and most genuine tears
as she took Mr. Sandford's hand; for a moment
something rose in her throat which hindered
her speech : and yet she was able to feel that
her visit would be a failure if this were all. She
recovered her voice after a moment, and

sat clown beside the old gentleman's chair.

4 1 hope, at least,' she said, faltering a little,
that there was not much suffering. She was
so sweet and patient. It is so dreadful to come
back and find her gone  without a word.'

1 She was always fond of you,' he said, with
that little, broken sob in his voice which was
his way of giving vent to his sorrow.

'And I was very fond of her,' cried the
visitor. ' It was a comfort always, whatever
was troubling me, to come and see her pretty,
kind face. But, though it is our loss, it is her
gain. We must not forget that. How happy
she must be now!'

So they say,' said the old gentleman ; * but
I can't very well understand for my part how
she can be so happy in a strange place. For
it will be a strange place to her without
me.'

Oh, my dear old friend, we must not think
of things in that way, as if this world were the
model of everything. It must be such a very
different life.'

4 Yes, 1 suppose it must be very different,' he
said, musing, leaning with his hand upon his

knee, * but she was old to begin in a new
way.'

But she is not old now,' said the comforter.
We may be sure of that. With such a new
beginning everything must be renewed too.'

'I suppose you must be right, Mrs. Egerton ;
but we were so used to our old ways. A little
rheumatism, a bit of a cold now and then was
all we had to disturb us. I should have been
very well pleased to put up with it. And she
too '

fc But we can't go on living for ever, Mr.
Sandford.'

Xo, 1 suppose not,' he said, though without
any conviction; but it was perhaps injudicious
of her to add, though with the best intentions,

< There is one great consolation on your side,
that it cannot be for very long : that must soften
every parting. At an advanced age '

Mr. Sandford sat very upright in his chair.

1 1 don't see the certainty of that,' he said,
with some briskness. ' It may be or it may
not be, no one can say for certain either at
seventy or at forty. Many a younger man may
die before me '

That is quite true Mrs. Egerton said, and
the strain of her condolence and consolatory
remarks was stemmed. She was silent for a
moment, and then added, ' But you are not left
quite solitary in your trouble. You have a
daughter with you, I hear.'

Yes, there's Emily,' he said.

She has not come to see you since you've
been here. I was not sure you had any children
 alive.'

Oh ! yes, there's Emily,' repeated the old
man.

And I hope she will be able to remain with
you and take care of you.'

Oh, dear, no !' he said, sitting up in his
chair. * Emily  couldn't stay. Oh, no ! It
was a chance her being able to get away at all.
She is going, I think, tomorrow.'

It must have been dreadfully sad for her 
to arrive too late V

The old man shuffled in his chair.

4 Emily  is not just like  any other person.
She is not young, you know  not like a young
girl  her eldest child is quite grown up, and 
then there is John '

'Is she John's mother, then?' cried Mrs.
Egerton, in surprise.

'Well, you know  ' said old Mr. Sandford,
and paused  ' she has been a long time away.
She is kept very close by her engagements, and
she never was a great letter-writer. My poor
wife and me were glad to know just that she
was well. What happened besides we didn't
hear much about '

'But John?' said Mrs. Egerton, quite bewildered
by this speech. There was an air about the
speaker of having explained all that was asked
him, and this confused his questioner : though
she said to herself after the first moment that
John  was not an incident that could have
passed without remark. Besides, John had
been with them all these years  presumably
before the period at which their daughter had
been withdrawn from their view.

Emily is not at all an ordinary person,' Mr.
Sandford said : and then he added, ' You have
been away a long time, Mrs. Egerton, for you.
My poor dear would have liked to say " goodbye"


She felt that he was thus directing her away

VOL. I. Q

from a dangerous subject, and she was more
than ever curious and anxious to know.

I am very sorry I happened to be absent. I
would have come home had I known how ill
she was. And probably I could have been of
use in sending for your daughter in time.'

'Don't disturb yourself about that,' he said.
She was sent for, but could not come. And
then we telegraphed, not knowing how near it
was. They must all be very glad at the rectory
to have you back

I suppose so,' she replied, carelessly. f Mayn't
I see your daughter now I am here ? I should

like to tell her how sorry, how very sorry 

I don't even know her name.'

Emily has gone out,' he said. ' She is giving
some orders for me. She is very kind trying
to save me trouble ; though I might manage
by means of John. John and I are so accustomed
to each other. We'll get on very well  when
we're alone.'

< But John is going away to begin his work,'
she said, assuming ignorance notwithstanding,
what Mr. Cattley had said.

Not at present. His m I mean, I think

it is best to keep him at home for a little longer.
Emily is going to look for something near London
 but for my part I am glad to have him at
home.'

'Your daughter seems to be making great
changes in your arrangements '

1 don't know,' said the old gentleman, somewhat
testily, ' who has so good a right. She is
all I have. I have always given a great deal of
heed to Emily. She knows most things  better
than most people. I don't know who I should
trust to advise me if it wasn't Emily ; with her
I know that I am safe.'

Oh, surely you are the best judge,' said Mrs.
Egerton, with offence. She had no right to be
offended. What he said was perfectly just, and
she had no ground whatever on which to stand
with any idea of ousting Emily. What right
could she have to oust Emily ! She felt a great
interest in John, but not enough to interfere
on his account. Nevertheless, she was more or
less indignant. It was ingratitude ; it was a
kind of insubordination. It was not often she
was told in the parish what this old man virtually
told her, that she had no right to interfere :

Q2

and there could be no doubt that she was
annoyed. She talked a little, somewhat coldly,
of ordinary topics, of the people who were ill in
the village, and that it was rather a sickly
season, and that Mr. Cattley had a great deal todo.
And then she got up to go away, much
dissatisfied, disappointed, and even a little
humiliated, feeling that she had not shown the
power which she was supposed to possess. But
it was not fated that Mrs. Egerton was to withdraw
thus uncontested. As she opened the door
of the parlour to go out, there rose before her
suddenly a tall shadow in the doorway. It was
Emily herself.

CHAPTER XIV.
MR. sandford's daughter.

4 Oh !' cried Mrs. Egerton.

This was so entirely unexpected after she had
given up all thought of it. She decided within
herself in a moment that the curate was right
when he said that the stranger looked like a lady.
Yes, she looked like it ; but  there was something
in the dress of Mr. Sandford's daughter, in
her look, in the gravity of her manners, which
gave a sudden enlightenment to the inquirer.
She wore a peculiar bonnet closely encircling
her face ; a long cloak, a black heavy gown
which was not newly got for mourning, but
evidently her habitual dress. The experienced
half-clerical lady of the parish perceived in a
moment with whom she had to do.

4 1 am so glad to have met you before you go

she said, putting out her hand, < although glad
is scarcely a word to use  in the present sad
circumstances.'

I How do you do V Emily said, with a grave
movement of her head. It was more disconcerting
than if she had reproved the undue warmth of
the visitor in so many words. Mrs. Egerton
felt herself obliged to be conciliatory, to make
herself agreeable if possible to this serious
woman with her pale handsome face.

I I may call myself an old friend she said,
with a feeble smile, ' though I have never seen
you before. I have been away, unfortunately,
during  all that has happened. I was so grieved
to hear  and that you were just too late.'

No one need be grieved to hear that suffering
is over,' said Mr. Sandford's daughter ; ' for
my part I could not but be glad. I would not
have had her suffer an hour or a moment longer,
for me '

But you might have been called sooner  before
the illness had gone so far. These, however,
are vain things to say. No doubt,' said
Mrs. Egerton, ' everything is for the best.'

To this general statement Emily made no
reply. She did not ask the visitor to sit down
again. She did not even come into the room
herself, bnt stood in the little passage outside the
open door.

1 1 am glad to see your father so well,' Mrs.
Egerton said.

1 Yes, he is very well. The health does not
suffer from distress of mind so much as people
think.'

That is true, though it is very strange to
think that it should be so.'

Oh, no, not at all strange,' said Emily, with
the calm of superior knowledge. ' The more
your mind is taken off yourself, the less you suffer
physically  except, perhaps, in the case of
actual disease, and I am not sure that the rule
does not apply there too. It is always good to
have the mind earned away from the contemplation
of itself.'

1 You have experience in such cases.'

Yes, I have great experience. I am matron
of a hospital, and see it every day.'

'Ah, that explains,' said Mrs. Egerton, who

had known this fact from the first glance. ' Of
course, with such a responsible post, you cannot
give much time to  your relations.'

I can give none,' said this calm, inscrutable
woman. * I am going away to-night.'

< To-night!'

Yes. I have been ten days here, and I think
I've arranged everything comfortably. John,
until a place has been found for him, will stay
with his grandfather.'

John  oh, I suppose your  nephew. It is, no
doubt, a good thing that he should be with his
grandfather ; but isn't it a pity he should lose a
good opening just for this ; he must leave, one
time or another.'

We did not feel, on thinking it over, that it
was a very good opening,' said Emily, with the
same unalterable gravity. ' The boy wishes to
be a civil engineer ; and this was an engine-foundry,
mechanical engineering, not what he
wants '

But it was Mr. Cattley's brother, a man who
would have taken an interest '

The interest which the head of a great
foundry can take in one of his apprentices is not

much to rely upon. We preferred that he should
not go.'

'Then there is nothing to be said, I suppose,'
said Mrs. Egerton, with something like
indignation.

It seemed so extraordinary that the Sandfordss,
or any people in their position, should not
pause, and weigh what she might have to say.
It was ridiculous, besides.

'Nothing, I think,' said this Emily, quite seriously.
' We have gone over it carefully, and
our minds are quite made up.'

She stood in the passage, without any regret
or apology, without any sign of yielding, not
impatient, and yet, perhaps, a little tired, as
might be seen in her eyes, of being thus stopped
as she came into the house.

Then, perhaps, there is nothing better for me
to do than to take my leave,' said Mrs. Egerton,
smiling as best she could, yet feeling, if truth
must be told, very little inclination to smile.

Emily made no protest, nor any effort to detain
the visitor. She turned round politely, and,
opening the door, made room for the lady in her
satin draperies to pass. And presently the rector's

sister, the chief personage in Edgeley, found
herself in the street again, feeling, she knew not
how, that old Sandford's daughter, the matron
of a hospital, a woman with a mystery about
her, a stranger unknown in the place, had overcome
and proved herself the better woman. Mrs.
Egerton felt angry, humiliated, astonished. She
felt, too, which was more remarkable, that she
was herself in fault, that her attempted interference
had been an unjustifiable intrusion, that she
had no right to thrust herself into their house
and dictate to them what they should do. Old
Sandford was a lonely old man, over whom it
might have been easy enough to domineer, but
was it possible that she had really tried to do it ?
She was angry, first with them, then with herself.
She met Mrs. Box's perambulator again,
with the baby hanging out of it, in imminent
risk of dislocating its neck; but Mrs. Egerton
was so subdued that she let the little unfortunate
pass, and never said a word. Finally, she
met the curate, whose undoubting faith in her
was her best consolation at such a moment.

I have been beaten,' she said to him, * horse
and foot  defeated all along the line.'

Meanwhile, Emily went into the parlour where
her father sat, a little tremulous, glad to be out
of it, leaving the women to struggle, if they
pleased. The voices had been quite soft, and
all had passed with the perfect decorum of good
breeding, notwithstanding that Mrs. Egerton had
been so conscious of her defeat. Mr. Sandford,
though he had been listening anxiously, had
heard no sound of any quarrel. He gave Emily
a questioning look as she came in.

I hope she was not uncivil to you, my dear ?
She seems to think I want taking care of, now
my poor dear's gone. She's a good woman, and
a kind woman, Emily, and I'm glad you said nothing
that was disagreeable to her, my dear.'

She is like many parish ladies,' said his
daughter, who was not without experience of
such. ' She thinks she should be allowed to
meddle with everything, because her motives
are good. I don't doubt that she's good and
kind in her way, but she has nothing to do with
you and me.'

1 Still she was always very nice to your
mother ; and when you are gone I may be thankful
to have her come to see me. There are

times when we have both been very glad to see
her coming in. Sometimes she would bring the
papers, or Punch, or a new book  especially in
the winter afternoons it was a pleasure  and if
I am to be left without even John '

But you are not to be left without John.
And nothing has passed that need keep her
from coming to see you. She will like to come
and be kind. It is as good a way of filling up
vacant time as any other,' said Emily, with an
experience of such matters which probably
justified a little harshness of speech.

I shall be left very lonely,' said the old man,
with the break in his voice which was his substitute
for weeping. * There is Mr. Cattley too.
He was always very kind : but now you've gone
and made me break with him  after giving him
all that trouble with his brother about the boy.'

Father,' she said, ' I thought we had settled
that question. I have never interfered with the
boy. All his life, at least since he was a child,
he has been with you : and you saw last night
what it has come to, and what ideas he has on
the subject. I don't complain  I am not saying
a word. Wait till I complain before you speak.

But so it is : there is only one subject on which
I am determined, and you know what that is too.
I will not have the past made known to him.
I will not have him find out  no, not for the
world.'

And how should he have found out by going
to Liverpool?' said old Sandford, querulously,
 a boy serving his time in a foundry, is it likely
that he would go raking up old stories in such
a very different sphere V

1 Everything is likely that we don't want to
happen,' she said.

And now,' cried the old man, ' all's undone
that was settled before she left me, my poor
dear. She has gone to heaven carrying a false
idea with her ; thinking of things that were
never going to happen. Do you call that keeping
faith with those that are gone ! I will never
be able to explain it to her, without putting the
blame upon you.'

I hope it will be long before you have to
explain it to her  and I don't mind about the
blame. I can bear it, father ; put it upon me.'

It is all very easy for you to speak,' he said,
in his broken voice, * but you put me all in a

muddle, and I'm growing old, as Mrs. Egerton
said.'

What has she to do with your age 1 You
are not old  to speak of. Most probably you
will see us all out.'

This did not seem an unpleasant consideration
at first, but afterwards he said, in his complaining
voice,

The longer I live the worse it will be forme,
if you take away all my friends

To this she made no reply, but after a while
sat down beside him, endeavouring to turn his
thoughts to other subjects.

I have settled everything I can for you,' she
said, ' it will not be so comfortable as in mother's
time. She was very comfortable, without having
any method in particular or settled ways.
If I don't make any fuss, yet I feel that all the
same. But after a while you'll fall into the new
method. Sarah's a good girl. She will do
everything for you that she knows. And
new customs creep up, and you will get
on more comfortably than you think. The
only question that there is any anxiety about is
the boy.'

You had better take him back, Emily, into
your own hands.'

1 How can I do that V Her face changed a
little out of its fixed gravity and calm. ' You
can't undo ten years in a day. By all the
habits of his mind he's your boy. It was a
risk, but you took it. I ought to have thought,
but I didn't then, that in the course of nature
I should most probably live the longest, and
that, before he was fully set out in the world,
you might '

She paused, reflecting that this was the very
contrary of what she had said a few minutes
before.

"What?' he said, fretfully. 'If you think
that in consequence of what has happened I will
make any change  of any kind  you are much
mistaken, Emily. I'll neither form new ties, nor
change in any way. Half is left to you and half
to him, as we always settled, and there shall
be no alteration.'

I was not thinking of that,' she said, gently ;
but she did not say any more. It is difficult,
unless as a matter of business, to speak to any
man of what will happen when he dies, and if

he does not care to contemplate that idea it is
so much the worse. Emily let the subject drop.
She had said he might see them all out, which
indeed might happen, as such things happen
every day ; but though she said this she perceived
with her experienced eyes that her father
was a man unlikely to live long. The loss of
the companion of his life, who had been his prop,
though his mind had never been sensible to
the fact, was not a thing likely to be got over
so easily as seemed. Though she spoke of
Sarah's faithfulness and the new ways, she had
no real faith in the apparent composure with
which he had accepted the change in his life.
In many ways this was to her a painful conclusion,
and hard to face. Something no doubt of
natural feeling had survived the long separation,
the great difference between her ways of thinking
and his. To have that house swept from
the face of the earth in which there was always
a refuge whatever might happen ; and still worse
to have on her hands a responsibility from which
she had shaken herself free ; to have it back
again with all its difficulties increased, and
every kind of new complication, was a most

unwelcome thought. But her mind was a
very clear and cool one in its peculiar way, and
she foresaw everything that could possibly occur
to make her arrangements vain, even while in
the act of making those arrangements. How
could she help seeing the extreme probability of
another visit to that little house ere long, of a
final winding up of all things, and the absolute
necessity of regulating all future movements in
her own person ? People of very tender feelings
conceal these prognostications from themselves,
and think of them, if think they must, only with
previsions of sorrow, not the clear arrangements
of a foregone conclusion. But Emily Sandford
had been separated from her parents for many
years. She was not affectionate in the ordinary
sense of the word. She was compelled to a
system of rigid plans and rules by the necessities
of her life, and she could not help giving a
serious eye to the eventualities which she felt
might be so near.

John accompanied her to the train as he had
accompanied her from the train ten days before.
It was again night, and to sit by her side during
that short drive, which still afforded opportunity

VOL. I. R

for so many things to be said, was about as exciting
to him as on the previous occasion ; but
it was a different kind of excitement. His heart
was no longer quivering on the balance between
love and opposition. It had taken strongly the
latter poise; his very ears seemed to thrill
with eagerness to hear every word she said,
which his mind instantly construed in a sense
offensive to himself. When this impulse seizes
upon us, it is astonishing how much bitterness
can be extracted from the very simplest phrases.
She had no disposition to offend the boy that
night. On the contrary, there was in her voice
a softness, and in her words a tremulous feeling
such as a week since would have gone to John's
heart. She had an appearance of emotion about
her altogether which, not even in the moment
when they stood together beside the bed of
death, had been in her before. And now it was
she who was the most ready to speak.

It is only now,' she said, ' when I am gone,
that you will settle down to your changed life
you will only realise it fully now.'

Oh ! I have realised it,' said John, < since the

first day. It will be less strange  less  when
grandfather and I are alone.'

'Less?' she said, with a question unexpressed,
i you don't leave me room to think very much of
myself.'

To this he made no reply : and there was the
faint quiver of a laugh in the air, which, the
speaker's face being unseen, was more suggestive
of pain than any other sound could
have been.

1 1 need not recommend your grandfather to
your care, John. You will be as good to him
and watchful of him as you can. He is not so
strong as he thinks he is. You will write to meat
once, if you see anything to be anxious about.'

It didn't do much good,' said John, ' writing
to you before.'

You did not tell me the true state of the
case,' she said, exercising evident control over
herself. * You wrote as if it was entirely from
yourself '

1 1 know better now,' he said, bitterly. ' You
may be sure I will never do that again.'

He turned his head away from her, and

e2

stared out of the window at the lights in the
cottages which skirted the common  lights
which twinkled at him many a time afterwards
in his dreams.

Boy,' she said, suddenly grasping his arm
with her hand, ' you don't know what you say.'

That is no fault of mine,' said John.

He would not yield even so much as to turn
his head to her. It was, indeed, all he could do
to keep himself from shaking off the hand on
his arm. She took it away after a moment, and
then resumed :

This is the last time 1 shall have the chance
of saying anything to you. John, you've set
your heart against me without any cause.'

Isn't it cause enough that you're taking both
father and mother from me,' cried the boy.
Isn't that enough % But no, I'm saying too
much, for you've given me back my mother, my
faith in a mother. I had always been thinking
you were my mother  till now.'

She gave a little, low cry as if some one had
struck her, and paused for some time to recover
herself, putting her hand up to her throat as if
she were suffocating. He never looked round

nor moved, but, with bis heart on flame, kept his
shoulder towards her, looking out fixedly into
the darkness of the night.

Well,' she said, * well, if you feel so : I  I
have nothing to say if you feel so. One thing I
would ask of your honourable feeling, John. If
it has been thought best by everyone, my
mother included, not to enter into our family
circumstances at your early age, I ask you to
respect our decision. We know better than
you. We must know better than you. Don't
try to surprise your poor old grandfather, in his
loneliness, into saying  what he will regret.
Don't try '

I'll do nothing dishonourable, I hope,' cried
the boy, ' but I'll make no promises. I'll find
out, if I can. I'll do all I can to find out '

And when you have done so,' she said, with
an audible quiver in her voice, ' what will you
discover ? Nothing that is of any consequence
to you or anyone  only that we wanted you, all
of us, to respect and reverence your family until
you were old enough to understand how things
come about. That is all. And it was my mother's
wish as well as '

Don't say that,' exclaimed John. l She died
saying, " Tell him tell him " '

This is madness,' she said, with a start, as if
she would have sprung out of the carriage : then
recovering herself. * Like every young and
heated imagination you make mountains out of
molehills,' she said, in a very slow and measured
voice. 'A mere matter of family expediency,
and you turn it into some dreadful secret. This
shows how little you are to be treated with confidence.
What a child you are still !'

He turned round upon her with all the fierceness
of boyish wrath.

< If it isn't a dreadful secret, what is it ?
You've taken my father and my mother from
me, both, both.'

She gave a little, quivering cry.

'And what am I, then she said.

The boy turned away with a sorrowful movement.
They were drawing up at the little
station, and there was time for no more.

4 You are Emily,' he said.

CHAPTER XV.

A VISIT TO THE FOUNDRY.

John was not, perhaps, very much pleased with
himself as he came home after seeing Emily
away. As soon as he said that to her, his heart
swung back like a pendulum, and he asked
himself what if he were wrong after all, what
if it were not so V He had believed her to be
his mother all his life, and what if, after all,
that idea, which up to a few days since there
had been no doubt about, what if it proved the
right one, and this new light which had burst
upon him, wrong? He shivered when this
thought came into his mind, but he would not
entertain it. Yet instinctively, involuntarily, it
would come back and back. In all that he
could recollect of his childhood there was nothing
which indicated to him a different kind of

mother. He had little recollection of caresses
or the softness of maternal tenderness. The
bright spots in his childhood were those illegitimate
moments which he knew enough to know
must have been infringements of every rule,
when he had been brought down in his nightgown
in his fathers arms. In place of all the
ordinary pleasures of childhood, he had the recollection
of those moments and nothing more ;
but of a mother, such as his grandmother had
been, nothing. All that he did remember chimed
in well enough with the image of her whom
he had called Emily, a recollection which began
to burn and sting, but which yet he justified to
himself, remembering all the years in which he
had heard her spoken of by that name, and in
which she had never come near him, never expressed
any wish to see him, as most mothers
would. He came home distracted by these
thoughts, driving back solitary in the cab 
though he had meant to walk ; and found that
his grandfather had gone to bed, and that all
was silent and miserable in the house. There
was the fire, and that was all, to give a little
cheerfulness. John was not old enough to feel

the companionship of a cheerful fire, making its
little noises, its ashes falling, its flames breaking
out, to cheer the solitary ; but he liked the
warmth in his nervous condition, and sat down
by it and thought. If by chance it should have
been to his mother that he dealt that cruel
blow ! but he would not think of a hazard so
terrible. And then he put forward his hand and
pulled out two old books from the shelf, where
all his old classics stood untouched. These were
classics too in a way, but it was not for their
rank in literature that he prized them. One
was the ' Robinson Crusoe,' which was so full
of memories ; the other, which was the one he
chiefly sought, was Mrs. Trimmers'  Robins.'
But it was not the story of Pecks and Chicks
that moved him. It was the name in a large
scrawl of childish text, Johnny May. He remembered
it so distinctly now, the name that
had come to him with such vague souvenirs,
such a familiar but long-forgotten sound. He
had never heard it since he came to Edgeley.
And why did his grandfather give him no answer
to his question when he asked what he had todo
with that name ? The wildest fancies went

circling about his brain. Why was his name
taken from him ? Who was he ? Had he indeed
lost both father and mother in those old, long-forgotten
days, or was she  the grave mother of
old, the mother who never played with him or
caressed him  was she  could she be after all 
Emily ? His heart grew sick at the thought-sick
not so much with repugnance and opposition
as with the recollection of how he must have
wounded her, insulted her, if this was so.

He tried next day to get some satisfaction
from his grandfather, but failed entirely. John
began by telling the old man that, now he had
found out his real name, he intended to be
called no longer John Sandford, but John May
words which turned Mr. Sandford livid with
horror, and for a moment dumb with passion.

You shall do nothing of the sort,' he cried,
unless you want to break at once and for ever
with me.'

But, grandfather '

There's no "but" in the matter. I'll hear
of no " buts." Dismiss this nonsense out of your
head, or else dismiss yourself out of this house.
Do you hear me, sir? Not another word of it.

It shan't be  I "won't hear of it. Silence, John !
Say another word and I'll turn you out to the
street. Cast off my name, who have been your

guardian all your life, to take up Silence,

John ! Don't say another word to me.'

John, indeed, was saying no word. He was
gazing at his grandfather with wide-open, astonished
eyes. Never in his life had such words
been said to him before. He was too much
astonished to resent them. When the old man
reproached him for his wish to cast off the name
which was that of the tender protector, the only
father he had really known, compunction came
quick to the boy's heart. That was not what
he had intended  it had never entered his
thoughts.

Grandfather, indeed you do me wrong. I 
never thought of that.'

How was it you didn't think of it ! Haven't
we done enough for you, my poor dear and me ?
What have we not done for you that heart
could desire "? And now you want to be shut
of us, to clear out, to change your name. I am
glad she's out of the way not to see it or to hear
of it. I'm glad she's out of the way.'

Grandfather ! don't, for pity's sake don't '

Pity !' said the old man  * you don't show

much for me. I'm settling down, my poor old
-dear in her grave, and the house desolate, and
Emily gone, and nobody left but you and me.
And the first day, the very first day when
everything's over, and I've got to face the
world again alone, that's the time you choose
to tell me that you're going to make a fuss and
disturbance, and take a new name, and set all
the village talking. Set' 'em talking and inquiring
and putting things together. Oh, I'll
not have it. I'll rather clear out myself and go
right away.'

Grandfather !' said John again.

4 Don't speak to me. I'll go and telegraph
for Emily back again. She'll have to find me a
place where I can have some peace ; for all my
peace will be gone here. Oh, John ! oh, John !
I am glad she has not lived to see this day.'

Don't say that, grandfather,' the boy cried.
I'll not do anything to vex you. I only wanted
to bear my own name.'

And who told you it was your own name?
Your mother is Sandford, and so are you '

'My mother?' said John, faltering  < my
mother?"

1 Perhaps,' said old Sandford, ' you're going to
deny her too '

And then there was a silence in the middle
of the storm  a silence which marked the dangerous
point beyond which these two unused to
fighting did not care to go.

1 Grandfather,' said John at last, ' I don't
want to vex you, nor to make myself as if I
didn't belong to you. But why shouldn't you
tell me ? I'm old enough to understand. If
there's any secret, oughtn't I to know it ? Perhaps
it isn't half so bad as the things I take
into my head. It would be so much better if
you would trust me  tell me. One time or other
I shall be sure to find out ; and if I've been
insulting my mother (how can I tell ?) and vexing
you, is it my fault ? It is out of exasperation
because I know there is something, and yet
what it is I'm not allowed to know.'

The old man calmed down during this speech
and perceived what his best policy was. He
said :

You loiter my poor brains with your talk

of secrets. Let alone, my boy. There's few
families that haven't got something that they
keep to themselves  but the Sandfords have
less than most. We've never been very rich or
great, but we've always been able to hold up
our heads wherever we went. I'm very shaky
this morning,' he said, relapsing into his broken
voice. ' I'd like to take the air a little ; but I've
been so long indoors I don't know if I could
keep my legs.'

'Will you have my arm, grandfather?' said
John.

Well,' said the old man, with his half sob,
* the first day we're alone it's a kind of natural
to go out together ; and we'll just look if there's
a snowdrop or two out yonder. By this time
there should be a snowdrop out.'

This altogether overcame John, who walked
with the old man leaning on his arm to the
new-made grave, which had been covered with
snowdrops, and where already two or three of
these pale, wintry blossoms, cold and pure, were
peeping out. They were followed all along
the street by many a sympathetic look. The
men took off their hats, the women gave them

half-tearful greetings. < They go unto the
grave to weep there.' These words can never
be said without moving the general heart, so
easily touched, and to some griefs so sympathetic.
That it should be an old man and a boy who
were making that pilgrimage was, the gossips
said, * more heart-breaking' than if it had been a
woman and a girl.' The helplessness of the
pair, and yet the difference between their helplessness
and that of the women who had lost
their bread-winner, has something poignant in
it. And if Mr. Sandford had exhausted all
resources in finding an expedient for calming
the mind of John, and diverting him from his
inquiries, he could not have found one that was
more effectual. The chill sweetness of the little
snowdrop upon his tender old mother's grave
quenched all the heat and fire of thought out
of the boy's heart.

But he did not forget the question which tore
it asunder. Some time after he heard that Mr.
Cattley was going to Liverpool for a day or
two to see his brother, and eagerly asked to be
allowed to go with him. The boy was looking
pale, they had all remarked without surprise,

and the curate was very willing to have him
for a companion. John managed to get his
grandfather's permission without letting him
know where they were going ; for Mr. Sandford
was pleased and proud that his boy should be the
curate's companion anywhere. It was with a
mixture of excitement and trouble that John set
out. He felt that he might be about to make
some monstrous discovery, he knew not what,
yet the sense of doing something clandestine
and forbidden contended in his mind with that
pleasure in carrying out our own desires, which
is so strong in most hearts.

It was a long journey. Mr. Cattley and he
went over the common to the station at twelve
o'clock of a brilliant, sunshiny February day,
when all the roads in their wetness reflected the
wonderful colours of the sky, and the very puddles
were strewn with turquoise and gold ; but
it was between six and seven at night, dark
and cold, when they reached the great town,
which John entered with all the natural excitement
of a country boy who has never seen
such a place before. Mr. Cattley took him to
the lodging to which he himself usually came

on his visits here; for his brother, like most
other people of his importance, lived out of
town. He took .John next morning through
a world of streets, some of which were imposing
and brilliant, but by far the greater part
mean, narrow, and unlovely, to the place where
the great foundry was, and where but for an
accident he himself might have been. The
youth went over it with a mixture of pleasure
and repulsion. The novelty, the bustle, the
feeling of a great new energy unknown to him
before, the quickened sense of living and
great creative work went to his head like a
new inspiration ; but the plunging and ploughing
of pistons and wheels, the huge monstrous
machines which looked like sentient creatures ;
the grind, and whirl, and noise, and endless
movement, in so many different senses at once,
up and down, round and round, back and forward,
contradicting each other, made the brain
of the country lad go round too, with a sickening
confusion. A touch of envy of all those accustomed
workmen, who understood, and moved
about so coolly among, this confusing round of
wheels, and at the same time a sense of thank-vol.
I. S

fulness that he was not himself to take his place
among them, was in John's mind. This was not
what had fired his imagination, or rather, had
fired Elle's imagination, and thrown a warm reflection
upon his. The lighthouses, the canals,
the civilising roads, the works that would be
good for humanity, as well as worth a man's
while, were different from all this buzzing and
plunging. Yet John was wise enough to know
that the two things were too closely connected
to be severed. He was glad, however, that he
was to be set to surveying and outdoor work
rather than to this.

Mr. Cattley was with his brother in the office,
and John was left to stray about the outskirts
of the place, after he had been shown over it, to
wait for the curate. The grimy courts, the big,
ugly buildings, sheds, all the frightful accessories
of the place were new to him. Why were such
places so ugly % Was it necessary they should
be so ugly 1 The black soil of the yard, over
which the workmen went crunching in their
heavy boots, seemed mixed up of cinders and
coal dust and mud. He was asking himself, with
a half laugh at his own simplicity, why this must

be  whether it might not be worth while to make
the surroundings of the workshops less hideous 
when his eye was caught by one of the labourers
passing between him and the grimy wall. Xo
skilled workman this, like those in the blackened
moleskins, which, at the beginning of the week,
were white, with their free step and independent
aspect. The man was one of the drudges of the
establishment, a skilless hanger-on, doing jobs as
they were wanted, carrying the great, rusty bars
of iron, bringing coals, doing all the rough work
of the place. He was dressed in the indescribable
clothes of the British labourer, who has no
sort of habitual costume, not even a blouse under
which to hide his rags, with a red cotton handkerchief
knotted about his neck. Perhaps it was
this bit of cotton that caught John's eyes : and
then it seemed to him that the face above it was
not unknown to him. It was a sufficiently villainous
face ; the features looked as if they had
been roughly shaped out of some coarse paste,
the small eyes, looking out from under shaggy
brows, with a sidelong glance, the slouching
gait, the unshaven chin, made up a very unattractive
picture altogether.

s 2

Where can I have seen him V John said to
himself. He had the keen recollection of youth,
and soon identified the unlovely figure which
had passed across his field of vision once, and no
more. The man, seeing John's gaze fixed on
him, felt it expedient to touch his cap, and claim
the recognition that was in the lad's eyes. It
might mean, if nothing more, a pint of beer.

Morning sir,' he said, as if he knew all about
him.

John was a little startled by this recognition.

You know me, too V he said.

I never forget anyone I ever sets eyes upon 
especially a young man as has little to do with
them sixpences of his, and knows as a poor man
is mostly dry.'

'And yet 1 never saw you but once,' said
John, with a laugh. He thought within himself
that this was not a very dignified acquaintance,
and yet to have remembered was something in
the fellow's favour. ' When I saw you you were
looking for some one down at Edgeley, don't
you know V

And then it suddenly occurred to John that it
was this man's inquiries which had ended in

bringing to his mind his own forgotten name 
the name of his childhood, which, for the present,
at least, he was not allowed to claim  and this
changed his countenance from its lighter aspect
to profound gravity. For was not this the object
with which he came here, to find out something
?  which he was not likely to do wandering
about the grimy yard of the foundry.

Ah !' said the man, with a sudden lighting up
of his seemingly impassive countenance, ' I have
ye now. Never forgets a face, but don't always
remember where I seen it. Edgeley, where I
went to look up my mate's wife ? But where
that mate was, I'm not a-going' to say now.' He
put his finger against his nose. f I wasn't a-
minding clown there. Bless you, I knew if I'd
a-found her, she'd a-bought me off pretty smart,
rather than let the story run that I was his mate
and where he was. But mum's the word in the
foundry. You won't peach on a poor man, that
is trying to turn a honest penny, and get back
his character  will ye, now V

I !' cried John, with great disdain. ' I know
nothing about you. I only remembered I had
seen your face '

And was so kind as to want to know if I was
in good 'earth  which the same to you, young
man said the fellow. * You would ? t give meno
help, though, then ; and ye might have done
it, and no harm.'

I couldn't have helped you ; for I knew
there was no one of the name you wanted in the
village.'

Maybe there was, and maybe there wasn't,'
said the man. ' There was them belonging to
her, if she wasn't there herself. An old lady
come and give me a sov. to go away. She did
she give me a sov.  though if it was for that,
or because she thought her blasted village

wasn't good enough for the likes of me Give

us a shilling, young master, to drink your
'earth.'

John was so unused to the magnificence of
dispensing shillings that he took one mechanically
from his pocket in answer to this appeal.
But he said before he gave it, with much
authority and wisdom,

4 You don't deserve a shilling, or anything
else  if all you wanted was to bring some poor
woman to shame.'

It was very wrong,' said the man, with a wink.
I know'cl you'd think so. But that was only my
fan, bless you  and you're sure there wasn't not
one o' that name in the village, young master !
Why, I wanted to give her news of her 'husband
as was my mate. You're sure there wasn't one
o' that name V

CHAPTER XVI.

RESEARCH.

JOHN reflected as he walked back to his lodging
on the small matters on which great effects sometimes
hang. This wretched fellow  hoping to get
something out of a poor woman whose husband
was a felon, but who was probably living indecent
obscurity somewhere, keeping this
dreadful fact from the knowledge of those about
her  had pronounced the name which the boy
had not heard for ten years, and thus, by an
accident which had nothing whatever to do
with John, had thrown a light upon the boy's
life. At this moment it was not a very comfortable
light. The gleam it had thrown had not
brought peace, but the reverse. It had awoke
difficulties, troubles which no doubt were there

and must have come into evidence some time,
though not necessarily now. John did not feel
that he had any reason to be grateful to the
returned convict who had all unawares, by
mere chance, thrown that passing gleam upon
his way. But it was very strange to him to think
how such things come about  perhaps by mere
accident, if there was such a thing as mere accident
in the world (John had touched the edge
of philosophy, and liked to think that he had
thought on such subjects), perhaps in the elaborate
arrangements of a purpose which regulates the
world in matters both small and great. It gave
him a sense of pleasure that such high mysteries
should come into his mind in connection with
his own little affairs, and yet it was no doubt
just as wonderful, nay, more so, that a sparrow
can not fall without Divine Providence noting
that infinitesimal event, than if the schemes of
heaven concerned only nations and principalities
and powers. He said to himself, following
out that line of thought (and liking himself for
the impulse to do so), that if one thing, then
another ; and that if God's pui-poses regulated
one act of human affairs, they must regulate

all, for nothing could be small or great with
Him. And whatever happened, though the
present effect of the revelation had been perhaps
more painful than pleasant it was always best
to know. He said to himself that it is always
best to know. Supposing there is anything unpleasant
in the antecedents of your family,
supposing they are less dignified, less well-off
than you may now suppose, still to know is a
great matter. He was determined to leave no
stone unturned to find out why it was that he
was not to be allowed to come to Liverpool,
and what harm it was supposed that he should
get there, and how his name, his father's name,
was connected with it, and why he was forbidden
to bear that name. These were momentous
questions, but they were not of that kind which
he could get solved by any of the ordinary
means of procuring information.

On the last morning of his stay in Liverpool,
John, being alone for an hour or two, set outwith
a distinct determination on his mind to do
something, to leave not a stone unturned. He
had already, when going about with the curate,
fixed his mind upon this. Indeed it was never

out of his mind. What had he come here for
but with the determination to find out something,
to find out everything if it were possible
1 He had gone about always on the lookout,
with his eyes open ; but there had been
nothing either said or done within his ken which
threw any light upon his subject. On the last
morning he was left alone, Mr. Cattley having
business to execute with his brother, and John
felt that now was his opportunity. He went
out about ten o'clock with all the advantage of
being by himself and unhindered by anyone else's
business. By this time he had become a little
accustomed to the place and knew his way
about. He walked along straight in front of
him, looking at all the shop windows and the
names over the doors. He did not quite see what
help was to be got out of that  but still he went
on, observing everything, hoping that perhaps
some street corner might awaken his own dormant
recollection, or something that would give
him a better guidance catch his eye. He meant
to leave no stone unturned.

Was there ever a wilder undertaking than to
try to find information about an unknown

family by walking about the streets of a great
city? When he had walked for an hour or
two, and began to feel tired, the futility of
this mode of research suddenly struck him. It
did not seem likely that he could do it in this
way, when he came to think of it. But how
was he to do it ? In what way was he to turn the
metaphorical stone under which knowledge
might be hid f

He found himself in front of the Exchange
when he woke up to this view of the question.
He went in timidly by .the archway through
which so many men were streaming, and found
himself suddenly in the midst of a sea of men,
all intent upon affairs which seemed life and
death to them, all too much absorbed in their
own business to give any attention to the boyish
stranger. Sometimes there would arise a
clamour of voices speaking together, then this
momentary storm would be over, and a lower hum
of many voices, a sound of feet, the murmur of a
crowd would be all that met his ear. And now
and then this human tide would be moved like
the sea by a wave setting in one direction, and
then would break off into eddies and sweeps of

current here and there. John was very much
interested by this sight. He had heard of such
assemblies so often  the characteristic heads,
the strange sombre important aspect of this
crowd of men, the faces full of meaning and
earnestness, affected him with mingled awe and
interest. They had the affairs of half the world
in their hands ; many of them had a look of
wealth, money written all over their substantial
persons ; and then there were the shabby ones r
more exciting still to look at, with a hungry
eagerness in their faces. The boy forgot himself
altogether and stood for a long time watching
them, pushed aside, now to one corner, now to
another by the stream. Then it suddenly occurred
to him that he was neglecting his quest.
He wondered whether if he had the courage to
call out in the midst of them all and ask whether
they knew anything of his father he might perhaps
acquire some information. But then shrank
away into a corner ashamed of himself, wondering
what all those occupied men would think of
him if he disturbed their business consultations
and arrangements with such a question. If
John had done so, no doubt the merchants would

have been delighted. It would have been a
delightful story to can home : ' To-day on
'Change the funniest thing happened. A young
fellow of seventeen or so, evidently fresh from
the country, got up suddenly and asked if anyone
was known there by the name of May !'
That is what the merchants and stockbrokers
would have told their families with great satisfaction.
But the idea filled John with shame
and sudden discomfiture. He saw for the first
time how ridiculous were his hopes, and how
impossible it was that he should discover anything
in this way.

It was half from shame, to recover from the
self-ridicule of this unaccomplished idea, that he
plunged into a great public reading-room, where
he sat down to recover himself. True, he had
not done anything to be ashamed of, but the
intention was so vivid that he felt as if he had
done it, and threw himself in to a seat in a tremor
of excitement, his heart beating exactly as if he
had carried that wild fancy into action. By-and-by,
when he recovered himself, he turned
over a newspaper or two mechanically, not
knowing what he was doing, and feeling a confused

calm in this atmosphere  the quiet which
was in the heart of the tumult, a noiseless
room within and the roar of the traffic and the
multitude without. While he thus sat in a kind
of half-dazed condition his eye fell upon a large
thick volume, which was the directory of the
town. It seemed to him that an expedient more
possible, more practicable, was here afforded to
him. He got up hurriedly, and turned it over,
finding without difficulty the name of a number
of Mays. It was a May who was the Mayor even.
If he had asked the merchants in the Exchange,
there was no doubt this was what they would
have thought he meant.

Then John went out again, and went straight
to the Town Hall, which had been pointed out
to him, and which was close to the Exchange.
He went, not knowing very well what he was
doing ; and though he was shy by nature, not
venturesome, pushed his way through the town
officers and officials, and asked to see the Mayor.
To see the Mayor ! Had he gone to Windsor
Castle and asked to see the Queen, it would have
been only a little less reasonable. What did he
want with the Mayor 1 It was only when this

question was asked him by a person of commanding
presence and still more commanding
costume, of the beadle race, that he came to himself.
What did he want with the Mayor ? To
ask him if he could give any information as to
some one of his name who ten years ago or
thereabouts had lived in Liverpool (John
supposed) and fallen into misfortune ? Poor
John made a very faltering explanation to the
beadle, and shrank away, not without raising
suspicions in that functionary, who watched
him out of sight with a look which was not
complimentary. And it was only then that the
boy perceived the foolishness altogether of that
fervent resolution of his to leave no stone unturned.
What stone was there which he could
hope to turn ? What could he do ? To appeal
to the mayor because his name was May ! He
might just as well, he said to himself, have
appealed to the ex-convict who had known
some one of the name of May in prison. The
one would really have been as sensible as the
other, which was to say that both were folly
itself. And, short of this appealing to some one,
what was he to do ?

He did, as may be supposed, nothing. When
he went to meet the curate at the foundry intime
for their train, he saw again the fellow who
had known May the prisoner, and had a shamefaced
laugh at himself as he thought of May the
mayor. What if he were to interrogate this
man, who was already his acquaintance, who
touched his cap and brightened at sight of him,
expectant of another shilling ! The one, he
said to himself, would be just as sensible as the
other, and more easily carried out. Ashen Mr.
Cattley saw the recognition that passed between
this labourer and his young companion
he looked at John with surprise.

1 Do you know that man f he asked, upon
which John entered into the story of his appearance
at Edgeley, saying,

4 Don't you remember V

1 1 think I remember something of the kind,'
said the curate, ' but I wonder you recollect
the looks of the fellow. He is not a very
attractive-looking acquaintance.'

'He brought a name to my mind said John,
that I had a recollection of  when I was quite

VOL. I. T

a child. I have been trying to find out something
about it, but I can't.'

What have you been trying to find out
about V

6 Well, that's the funny part,' said John, with
an embarrassed laugh. ' I don't exactly know.
I want to know something, I can't tell what,
about a gentleman of that name who I think
lived here, or near here, ten or twelve years
ago.'

That's vague,' said the curate.

f Yes, it's very vague. I suppose it was silly
to think I could find out anything. The mayor's
name,' said John, with a touch of pride in it, * is
May.'

Ah, the mayor. You didn't think it was he,
I suppose 1 I remember some story of a May
who embezzled or forged or something; no
doubt the one whom your friend there ' (Mr.
Cattley jerked his thumb over his shoulder to
indicate the man at the foundry) ' knew. Now,
John, look sharp. We haven't got a minute to
lose. Our train is at four.'

6 My things are all ready,' said John : and they
got their train, and there was an end of the

three days at Liverpool, in which he had hoped
to find out so much.

It was not so easy to explain his little journey
to his grandfather as he had hoped. He
tried to give vague answers to the old man's
questions, but in the end had to confess where
he had been and why he had been so desirous
of going there.

< To find out what?' Mr. Sandford cried, with
a flash of displeasure quite unusual. ' What did
you want to find out ?'

About my father, grandfather,' said John.
I have never been satisfied with what I have
been told, and now less than ever.'

'Why now? What has happened to make
you dissatisfied? What does it all mean?'

Since my  since your  since  Emily was
here.'

'How dare you call her Emily, sir? What
do you mean by it ? Do you intend to drive
me distracted in my lonely state ? Am I to be
brought to the grave with your questions and your
doubts ? Ah, you never would have taken that
upon you,' said the old man, 'while she was
here. You think you have got me at your

T 2

mercy. You think you can take every advantage
of me now that I am alone.'

No,' said John. ' Grandfather, it is you who
are hard upon me. She was going to tell me.
She would have told me if she had lived. The
last thing she said was, " Emily, tell the boy." '

Old Mr. Sandford relapsed into his broken
sobbing. It was quite genuine, and yet both
now and on other occasions it had served his
purpose.

6 What is between two women,' he said,
'nobody can know, nobody but their Maker.
And neither you nor me can tell what that was.
But she never told you, bless her soul, that you
were to insult your mother : oh no ! nor me that
have always been your support and provided for
you all your life. You think perhaps you would
have got on just as well without me, by yourself,
left upon the world V

And then he fell into such agitation that John
was full of regret and self-reproach. He tried
the best he could to make his grandfather forget
all that had been said, and to forget it himself,
and to return to their old life. But it was very
hard to do. Indeed, this period in John's life

was altogether very hard ; his lessons were
given over and he had nothing to do : and after all
the troubles and emotions of the past month or
two he had not strength of mind to begin some
study by himself, as Mr. Cattley advised and
Elle urged him to do.

'You should can on your mathematics.
Mathematics are always good for an engineer :
or even draw,' said Elle, as if that branch of industry
was very frivolous in comparison, ' that's
good for an engineer too. I am sure Mr. Cattley
would help you if you were to ask him. But, for
goodness sake, Jack, do something ; don't fall
into the same ways as all the other boys,
wandering about with your hands in your
pockets. It is better to do anything,' said Elle,
4 than to do nothing at all.'

John assented dutifully, but he neither resumed
his drawing nor his mathematics. He began
even to avoid Elle, lest she should scold him ;
and did wander about disconsolate with his
hands in his pockets, with no heart to do anything.
This pause in his life was very hard upon
him. It had been settled that his mother, or
Emily, whichever she was, should arrange

matters her own way at some engineer's office
in London, where she had hopes of getting him
taken in ; but in the meantime she made no sign,
and it did not seem possible to do anything without
her. Mr. Sandford himself would take no
trouble ; sometimes he would lament querulously
that the boy whom he had brought up wanted
to leave him and had no feeling for him : sometimes
he would say that his mother must settle
all that, that Emily was the proper person to
arrange for her son. But in any case nothing
was done, and John relapsed into idleness and
wretchedness, and did nothing, devouring his
own heart.

Whether this was a calculation of a cold-blooded
kind on the part of the woman who now
seemed to have the lives of these two, the
old mankind the boy, in her hands, as to what
would happen  or whether it was the mere
course of events quickened by any mortal
calculation  it proved at all events that Emily's
prognostic were right. Mr. Sandford never recovered
the death of his lifelong companion. He-went
out a little fitfully as the spring came on,,
and took little walks chiefly ending in a visit to

her grave to see, after the snowdrops were over,
if the primroses and then if the violets were
coming out there. He had covered the little
mound at first with all those spring flowers
which she had loved, perhaps with a dim prevision
that the sod would be displaced before
the time for the later blossoms came. And all
the long evenings he would sit with a book laid
out open upon her little table, but not reading,
gazing in the fire and twirling his thumbs.
John sat at the table in his old place near
the lamps with his books, and sometimes tried
to talk. But his grandfather was not disposed
to talk, and the hours would thus pass by
on leaden wings, so slow, so endless, so silent,
not a sound in the little parlour but the falling
of the ashes from the fire, and the ticking of the
clock, and the rustle now and then of a page
turned. But John had no new books to tempt
him, and at this turn of his life was but a languid
reader, and yielded in spite of himself to the
fascination of the strange dreary silence, and the
contemplation of the old man twirling his thumbs
by the fire.

The summer had scarcely begun when Mr.

Sandford's daughter was again summoned from
London. When she arrived she found the sickroom
in charge of John, who had learned all
that had to be done for the patient as well as
such an unlikely nurse could learn. The old
man would not suffer him out of his sight. He
would not let him go even when Emily with
her superior knowledge came and took the seat
at his bedside, and began, almost before she
came in, to alter the arrangements which the
boy-nurse had made.

He shouldn't have this and that,' she said,
they are bad for him in his present state.'

My grandfather likes it so,' said John.

We mustn't ask what he likes, but what is
best for him,' said the new-comer. She was not unkind,
but she was professional, seeing everything
from a point of view very different from theirs,
with a knowledge of what was right in the
abstract and none of that tremulous desire to
please which moves a domestic ministrant. And,
as if he had waited for that sanction to his dying,
the old man sank rapidly from the time of her
arrival. Whenever he could talk at all, his talk
was about ' the boy ' over whose head these two

earned on their discussions, taking no more
notice of his presence than if he had been a chair
or a table.

He's been used to your mother, Emily.
Your mother was very indulgent. Perhaps he
has been spoilt a little.'

A great deal, I fear, father

1 It was your mother did it. I like whatever
she did best. It was all done in love. Love is
what he has been used to.' This was on the last
night of his life. He was lying holding John's
hand, who was at one side of the bed, while
Emily was at the other. ' Oh, be kind to him,
my dear. He's a good boy. Don't let there be
any misunderstanding. When I am gone he
will have no one but you.'

I will try to do my duty to him, father. I
don't think you need have any fear.'

Your duty, Emily, yes ; but I hope it will bea
little more than that. Your own flesh and
blood wants a little more. Trust him as much
as you can, my dear. He's worthy of it. You
would never repent it. Remember that he has
no one in the world but you.'

At midnight, the two to whom these words

had been spoken stood again together over the
bed in silence more significant than words. ' He
had no one in the world but you.' The room
was cold with the awe and chill of death, and
John stood stupefied, as if his heart was dead.
No one in the world but her. Was this all he
had to look to now?

CHAPTER XVII.

MOTHER AND SOX.

They drove back together alone without a word,
sitting close together, not looking at each other
saying nothing. A few neighbours, out of ' respect,'
had attended old Mr. Sandford's funeral ;
and many hearts in the village were sore for
John. Behind the drawn blinds in the rectory,
and in many humbler houses, they spoke of the
boy with great tenderness. ' He'll find out the
difference people said. * The old people thought
there was nobody like him : but if it's an aunt,

perhaps with children of her own ' And

none of the little cortege returned with the
mourners to the house. The two were left altogether
alone.

The little parlour was in painful good order,.

the blinds drawn up, the daylight coming in as
usual, the hearth so cleanly swept, the fire so
bright, the two chairs standing one on each side.
It was all so suggestive of the old people, as if
they might have only gone out for a walk, arm
in arm, in their old way, and soon would come
in and sit down and look up smiling at their boy,
and bid him come near the fire, for it was a cold
day. This suggestion flashed to John's heart ashe
came in, and might have overwhelmed him
with sorrow and tears ; but the presence of that
tall figure in her black cloak and close bonnet
effectually put a stop to any expression. She
drew one of those chairs from the fire to the
table, without any sense of desecration, or of
disturbing any sacred image, and sat down.
Her face was very grave, but without any
harshness. She was always very serious, yielding
to no lighter impulses. She turned to John,
who stood vaguely, not knowing what he was
to do, by the table.

Now,' she said, not without feeling, ' there
are only us two  we must try to understand
each other.'

He made no reply. The movement she had

made of the chair, though perfectly simple and
quite unintended, was enough to re-awaken in
his mind all the resistance, the repulsion, which
indeed her action throughout had never suffered
to fade. For she had managed everything in a
perfectly clear, unhesitating, business way, giving
her orders with quiet and brief decision
saving everybody trouble, but leaving no place
for any consultation, for any of those faltering
conversations upon what would have been most
pleasant, or according to the ideas of the departed,
which draw together mourners in their
grief. There was no particular appearance of
grief in her at all. She was serious and pale ;
but then, she was always so, and there had been
no room for sentiment in anything she had done
or said.

Xo creature more desolate than the boy himself
at that moment ever stood by a new-filled
grave. The love which had enveloped him so
closely all his life had passed altogether away.
He felt as if there was no longer anyone that
cared for him in the world. He felt that this
familiar place, which had been his home for so
long, was not only to cease to be his home, but

to cease altogether. The jar of the chair as it

was drawn aside seemed to go through his heart.

It was only a commonplace piece of furniture

now, a common old chair to be put up at an

auction. The place seemed to be desecrated by

that simple movement. He had thought he

would keep the house just as it was, like a little

temple to the memory of the good guardians of

his childhood. He was to be their heir, he took

that for granted. He would leave everything, he

thought, and from time to time come back out

of the midst of the active life he had planned

for himself, and always find them in imagination

sitting there to meet him. No doubt John would

soon have found out the impossibility of that fond

imagination ; but this was what he thought. He

had even planned how he should put the gardener

and his wife  themselves old people for whom

it would make a provision  into the house to

keep it for him, which he had said to himself,

with tender childish pleasure, would please

grand mamma. But with the jar of that chair as

it was drawn aside, John's tender imaginations

went from him, leaving him with a sense of

astonishment and startled waking up. He had

another will to calculate with of which he had
not thought.

She kept looking at him while these thoughts
passed in a tumult through his mind, waiting for
an answer. It was but for a very short time,
yet to both of them it seemed long: and with all
her seriousness she was of a disposition which
could not brook waiting. She said, f Well ! J a
little sharply, when he made no reply.

1 1 did not say anything,' John replied.

Xo, you did not say anything  you made no
response. You look at me as if you wanted to
make a quarrel over those graves. But you shall
not make any quarrel, on that point I am resolved.
We must understand each other.'

He went and leant upon the mantelpiece and
stood looking down into the fire. Make a
quarrel ! It seemed to John that his heart
would burst with the pang this misconception
gave him. A quarrel, over their graves ! But,
though the suggestion was so abhorrent, he felt
the sense of rebellion and resistance grow
stronger and stronger. He would not even
meet her eye. He would withdraw into that
passive unyielding silence which of all things in

the world is most difficult to meet and to withstand.


She turned again towards him though she
could not see his face.

John,' she said, * don't make me feel, at a
moment when I am far from wishing to feel it,
how you have been spoiled by my father and
mother  and how wrong I was in giving you
out of my own care.'

He made a fierce gesture of denial at the first
part of her sentence, and added at the last,
with a sort of mocking echo, ' Out of your own
care !'

I have said that it is time we understood each
other,' she said, < I don't know whether it was
merely to wound me that you flung at me that
suggestion that I was not your mother.' Here
she made a pause, and he too, his attention suspended
with an excitement that took away his
breath. ' If that was the motive, it was fully
successful. It did wound me. But if you had
any real doubt on the subject '

He had, he had !' he said to himself, the blood
throbbing in his head with a giddy sense of
mounting up and up to the circles of the brain,

and yet he knew very well what she was going*
to say, and knew also that it was true.

 It seems strange that I should have to put
such an assurance into words. Who would have
borne with your alienation and your caprices,
but your mother? Many women even, in the
circumstances, would have said, Let him go. If
nature has no voice, if there are no recollections
of your childhood to move you  never mind !
Say it since you feel it. But I have not been
willing to do that. I have felt that the moment
would come  and the moment has come  when
you would have nobody but me. I have spoken
to Susie about it,' she added, with a slight tremor
in her voice.

Susie !' The name brought a new sensation 
something that touched his heart.

Your sister  your only sister  as I am your
only mother, though you have so strangely misconceived
me and denied me. I put that all
down to the circumstances, not to you. I am not
blaming you  only we must understand each
other now.'

John, leaning on the mantelpiece with his face
overshadowed by his hand, knew in his heart that
VOL. 1. U

all this was true. He made no attempt within
himself to deny it. The reality of it was too
much for him. It went into his heart like a stone
in deep water, deep, deep to the bottom, where
it lay a dead weight never to be got rid of.
He could not protest or say anything, as if he
were surprised by this sudden announcement.
He was not surprised. He felt now that he had
known it all well enough, that when he said
otherwise it had only been in the impulse of the
moment, with a frantic short-lived hope that
perhaps that might come true. Alas ! he knew
very well that it was this which was true. He
seemed to remember her now always silent,
cold, an image of reserve and gravity in the
midst of the more cheerful scenes in his memory.
It was rather from the extreme occupation of his
mind with these thoughts and recollections
which surged through it, than from any antagonistic
intention that he said nothing. But
standing there with his head bent and his eyes
lowered it was not wonderful that he should
appear to her an impersonation of silent rebellion,
a determined opponent.

You say nothing;' she spoke in a tone in which

a growing exasperation began to make itself felt.
4 It might have been less painful for me to let
you go on in your own delusion  if delusion
it was. But unfortunately you cannot be free
of me and my authority ; you are at an age when
your life has to be settled for you, and in that
as in everything else it is with me only that you
have to do.'

John changed his position a little, which, in
the high strain of emotion at which they were,
seemed to both of them like a sort of response ;
so that he was almost forced to add, < With you
only V faintly. He did not intend to say it. It
did not mean anything. It was a mere echo,
as if the air caught the words. But it had not
upon her this harmless effect. Her paleness,
which nothing else had touched, flushed high
at these words ; she made a sudden movement as
if she had received a blow.

With me only,' she repeated, with mingled
energy and irritation, as if he had suggested a
doubt. * Who else ?  do you mean to say ? do

you think V These questions came from her

hurriedly with something quite unlike her usual
gravity and calm. Then she stopped with a

u2

panting hard-drawn breath, and added after a
moment, in a tone almost of derision, * As you
are so intent on setting yourself against me,
perhaps you will tell me what, left to yourself,
you would do.'

John could not quite tell what this change of
tone meant. He was not used to the quick interchange
of argument nor was he quick to note the
significance of the inflections of a voice. He had
never known controversy at all, until he had embarked
upon this one, and the moment he withdrew
from the unintentional force of silence,
in which he had at first wrapped himself, his
ignorance and defencelessness became apparent.
He thought however that she was withdrawing
from her position, and recognising some claim in
him to know and judge for himself. He left the
place where he had been standing, and came
to the middle of the room, throwing himself into
a chair on the other side of the table.

I suppose he said, ' that all this is mine now

< What is yours V

6 1 mean : I suppose it is  all left to me ?
I could stay here, and  give no one any
trouble.'

Left to yon, my father's house and all that
he had ! Is that what yon mean ? and you
would stay here V

'I suppose so said John. 'I don't know
why. It seems natural, I thought it would
always be mine. If I was wrong, I'm  I'm
very sorry,' he cried, giving a sudden bewildered
glance round him, with a new and painful light
of possibility breaking on his mind.

And you would stay here ?' she said. ' xA.nd
do what? nothing? If you have your plans
made '

I have no plans made. I have not thought
of anything. I supposed  that was how it could
be.' He looked at her for the first time with a
bewildered appeal in his eyes. * If you knew
what it was  to change all at once from being
so  spoilt, perhaps, as you say, always understood,
never found any fault with ' in spite

of himself his voice faltered, 'to change from

that to  to and being not very old, nor

knowing very well : it makes a great difference,'
John said, feeling a sob swell upwards in his
boyish throat, and breaking off that he might
not betray himself. And he did not look at her

again to see if there was in her any responsive
feeling, but leaned his head upon his hands,
shading his countenance from the light. And
then there followed a moment of silence,  so
silent, so long  with the clock ticking loudly
through it with a sort of triumphant click-clack,
as if that ceaseless measure were the master of
all.

After a while she spoke again, with a softened
voice.

1 recognise,' she said, * all the difference :
poor boy !  it is natural you should feel it. I
am a stranger  so to speak  though I  gave
you birth, which is something, perhaps. But it
is not your fault. Tell me  you think that all
my father had to leave is yours, and that you
might continue to live here, just as before  is
that what you expect V

He made a little movement with one hand, still
leaning his head on the other. It was a movement
that looked like assent. And yet this was
not what he had expected ; for he had expected
nothing, nor had he any thought what he was
to do.

'To do nothing?' she continued, ' or to do 

-what ? To live all alone at your age  to 
the sort of life my father led ? That was
suitable enough at his time of life, but not at
all for you. To keep the maid Sarah and the
gardener, and doze in your chair of an afternoon ?
This could not be seriously what you thought.*

He started a little and cast a look at her,
half indignant, half piteous, but did not reply.

< I am not laughing at you,' she said, quite
gently ; ' you will yourself see when I put it to
you that this would be quite impossible. Xow I
must tell'you how things really are. All that my
father had is divided between you and me ; but
you aretoo young to enter into possession of your
share. It will accumulate for you till you are
twenty-one, and in the meantime the charge of
you naturally lies with me. Whatever has to be
determined is between us two. This is what I
told you when we came in ; you have nobody
but me

To describe what John's feelings were while
she spoke would be impossible; everything
seemed to swim and dissolve around him. It
was true that he had formed no definite idea to
himself of what was to come ; and yet there had

never seemed any question about this  that he
was his grandfather's heir  his natural and lawful
heir. Nothing else had occurred to him.
There had been nothing said about it ; but it
was this arrangement which seemed inevitable
to the boy. He did not think even that any
will was wanted. He, John Sandford, and no
one else, could succeed John Sandford. This
was what he had believed ; and in this inheritance
a certain sense of liberty was involved.
He had thought of various things he would do.
That about keeping up the house for one thing,
and putting in the old gardener to take care of it;
and then of the measures he would take in his own
person to learn his profession, and prepare himself
for a larger life. But in all of these thoughts
emancipation was the first article. He did not
suppose that he could have much to do with
Emily. He had shivered a little when he so
named her in his own mind, feeling a chill
shadow of doubt as to who she was. But he
had never remembered that he was only seventeen,
much under age, and that he might have
to yield to some other will instead of doing
his own. He looked at her with a sort of helpless

alarm in his eyes, feeling that everything was
going to pieces round him, and as if he were
feeling for something to clutch at in the general
whirl.

'You are surprised,' she said, 'and yet it is quite
true. You have been put, perhaps, in a false
position, John. It is not your fault, nor anyone's
; but I cannot let it go on. You are only
seventeen. Who at seventeen is fit to be his
own master ? The position would be absurd, if
it were not worse. It is sad for us both that you
have not been brought up to care for me. I never
realised how it might be when I left you in my
father's and mother's hands. I was willing that
they should have you, but not that they should
turn the heart of my child away from me.'

John's voice broke forth hoarse, not as it had
sounded in his own ears before, ' It was not
their fault.'

1 1 do not ask whose fault it was. Mine, perhaps,
for giving you up ; but that is past and
need not to be taken into account. The thing
we have to do is to get right now.'

Right ! did she call this right ! Whose doing
had it been that she had become Emily, the daughter

of the old people, in his eyes  not herself, not
his mother ? And then he gave her a furtive
look to see if, perhaps, she looked like his
mother now, and was no longer Emily. She
met his wistful look with one that was troubled
too ; but even this expression did not change
her. And whose fault was that ? He seemed to
hear the old people talking of Emily with many
unguarded comments. It was like her, they
would say. When a letter came, or when they
would ramble off into those mutual recollections
with which so often, to John's amusement, they
had traced out for him, with glimpses of the half-seen
landscape all around, the story of their lives,
that name always came in from time to time :
< Emily said  Emily did  this or that. How like
that was to Emily ! It washer way of looking at
things : for Emily never would see, don't you know

never made any allowance ' A hundred

such scenes appeared to him, like scenes out of
some play suddenly becoming visible without any
will of his. How could he help it, if his mind had
collected out of all these unconscious portraits an
image of Emily, which was more clear than anything

else he knew ! It was not their fault
Was it not she herself who was to blame if this
was how he knew her best, as the daughter
whom the old people were half afraid of, whose
probable criticism'alarmed them, whose thoughts
were not as theirs? The fear of her which
crept into his own mind was more chill, more
overwhelming  for how could he make any
stand against her if it was true that he was
entirely at her mercy, without any defence or
shield.

That little quiet parlour, the old people's room
with all its old-fashioned furniture and little
prim ornaments ! Had it ever beheld such a mute
encounter, such a strange struggle before? The
boy looked at his mother and she at him. His eyes
appealed to her, yet resisted her, while hers  but
he could not read what they meant. He was not
capable of comprehending, in his youthful inexperienced
judgment, the many things he wot not
of, the recollections, the sternness, the relenting
that were in his mother's eyes. But no more
was said. For just then Sarah came in, pushing-open
the door with the great tray in her arms

to prepare for tea  which was a thing that
-could not be intermitted, though heaven and
earth should be beginning to dissolve and drop
away.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FAREWELL.

John went up the village street towards the
rectory with a heavy heart.

It was all over  his resistance and his notion
of being able to resist, his hopes and all the
foundation for them, his fond dreams and thoughts
(so fallacious and so foolish) of independence, of
settling matters for himself, of keeping the little
house as a sort of monument to the old people
to whom it belonged. Could anything be more
vain than these visions ? It was all settled now,
and not a child in the village had less to do with
it than he. The furniture was to be sold, the
house itself to be let if it could not be disposed
of. The gardener and Sarah had received their
dismissal. They remained only till ' the family '
left, which was an event now fixed for next day.

In short, every part of John's little world had
crumbled under him. Himself was of no account
in all the changes that had been determined
upon. They were all quite reasonable, perhaps
necessary, and his childish intention had been
silly as well as vain. He understood that now ;
but how painful was the discovery *? It left him
aching body and soul, not only with the thought
of what was to come, but with the smarting
sensation of pain and shame, that overwhelming
sense of having formed ludicrous intentions
impossible to carry out, which is so terrible to
youth. He felt himself blush from head to foot
when he thought how foolish he had been, and
how impossible that which he had supposed the
most natural thing in the world. For the sting
of it was that he saw the impossibility, and how
childish it was to suppose that he could have
done it, and the futility of everything he had
imagined and planned. It was natural that she
should take all the steps she had done calmly,
without the silly sentiment into which he had
fallen. She was acting only as reasonable
people should act  but he, he had been going on
like a foolish boy.

John bad passed through a great many
vicissitudes both of mind and situation in these
past days. He bad been to his own thinking
independent, feeling very young and forlorn
indeed, but yet with a firmness of purpose and
a tenderness of feeling which had given him
confidence in himself. He had felt that he
would not abuse the old people's confidence.
He would make a man of himself to do them
credit. He would show them honour in his
keeping up of everything that had pleased them,
in his return, whenever he had leisure, to the
home in which their love had guarded him.
That had been his first phase, and it had been
full of a simple youthful dignity, and a sense of
worthiness of the trust they had placed in him.
And then there had come a revolution, a storm,
a fierce moment of fighting and resistance to the
new will, a fight which was weakened from the
beginning by the fatal conviction that it must
be lost. And now even the struggle was over,
and he had fallen  into what had he fallen ?
Into a child again  into what perhaps w r as his
natural position the place of a boy who did not
quite know what was going to be done with

him, whose fate was in other hands, who had to
wait and hear what was intended, where he was
to be placed, with a knowledge that his own
wishes had very little to do with it, and no
dignity, no freedom at all ! Could there be a
greater downfall for a sensitive, high-spirited
boy? With a certain mental elation, tempered
by sorrow, he had felt himself a man
though only seventeen, with all the tender ambitions
of a boy, to do credit to those that loved
him : now he had fallen back to the position of
a child  wistfully dependent, uncertain what
his fate was to be. In more ordinary circumstances
even, such as happen every day, a boy
who has been brought up by his grandparents,
made into the son of their old age, matured by
the constant company of people full of experience,
and the indulgence which comes with the
end of life, is apt to feel a terrible downfall when
he goes back into his own family, where his
parents, in their busy prime, think but little of
his precocious wisdom, and do not respect at all
the fictitious independence into which he has
grown, and where his brothers and sisters, a
rabble rout, knock him about in a way which is

supposed to be very muck to his advantage.

John's experiences were but a little more
painful. The disenchantment was complete. 
He was shaken out of all opinion of himself.
Perhaps even his feeling that his own will or
way was of no importance at all exceeded
reality : for he had no reason to suppose that
his mother would be . entirely indifferent to
what he wished. She had not been unkind.
She was not an emotional woman, nor given to
any effusion of sympathetic feeling ; but she was
not unkind. But John in his downfall and dismay
could not consider that. He felt himself
altogether brought low. And then his position,
so far as his mother was concerned, was so painful
and extraordinary. She was his mother ; he
could not, even to himself, set up any other
hope. He could not blind himself to the conviction
that this was she that appeared in his
childish recollections, always so silent, putting
him aside, saying that the boy was not to know.
But he could not call her * mother,' having
known her so long and seen to the depths of her
character as Emily. He said * she ' to himself,
and no more. She was the arbiter of his life.

VOL. I. X

He did not think she cared at all for him, or
minded whether he was happy or otherwise.
Secretly, perhaps, he thought that she preferred
lie should not be happy ; but that he knew, even
while he entertained the thought, was a wrong
thing to think, unkind and untrue : yet he kept
it in his mind all the same.

He was strolling along with his hands deeply
thrust into his pockets, and despondency unspeakable
in his soul, feeling that everything
that made life worth living had been taken from
him. He was going to the rectory to say goodbye.
Good-bye was what was in his heart
towards everything he looked on. Not a house
he passed but was familiar to him  the shop,
the post-office, even Johnson at the public-house,
though the old people had so disapproved
of him, and John had grown up in the idea that
he was not much better than the roaring lion,
seeking whom he might devour, of Scripture ;
they were all kind, familiar objects now. He
regretted them all, worthy and unworthy. Ashe
went along, there was some recollection associated
with every bit of the road. There, Dick
Spencer had thrown a snowball and hit him, and

made his forehead bleed ; a snowball with a
stone in it  but how sorry Dick was ! There
he had run against Percy on the way to school
and they had both come to the ground, rolling-over
each other. At another corner was the
spot where Elle used to start to run and get
before them all, with swift, light steps like a
deer, scarcely touching the ground. All the
boys had united in saying that it was not fair,
that Elle could not stay, that the slowest of them
could have beaten her in a quarter-of-a-mile ;
but, nevertheless, she had always got first whatever
they might say. He was turning over all
these old things in his heart while he strode
along slowly, languidly, his whole being in pain,
when suddenly, in the midst of his troubled
thoughts, a slap came on his shoulder from behind,
and a cheerful voice hailed him :

Why, Jack ! what are you doing here at this
time of day V

Then another voice addressed the first one
with that pleasant frankness which characterises
brothers or dear friends, and bid him for a blockhead
to remember. Whereupon the first speaker
penitently cried out :

x 2

I beg your pardon ! You know I didn't
mean to be unfeeling, Jack.'

John had scarcely the heart to turn round.
He did so, half, saying, in a tone of little
interest,

Have you fellows come back V

The fellows were two. They were older than
John. One  the nearest to him in age  was
short and of spare figure, neat and careful of
apparel ; the other was some two years older, a
person of advanced age in the estimation of his
juniors, who did not think Dick's sense was on
a level with his years. He was large and fair,
a full-grown man in person, with a moustache
which many an older man might envy, and a
careless good-humour and heartiness about him
which was very attractive to many of his fellow-creatures,
though his own immediate belongings
were a little contemptuous of them.
Both the lads were dressed with a little of that
jauntiness which characterises the University.
They came from a centre of boyish fashion;
their coats were cut on the corrected model,
and even Percy, though so much the wiser of
the two, would have died, it was evident to the

commonest observer, rather than wear anything
which he ought not to have worn. The
very canes which both of them scrupulously
carried were exactly the right kind of cane.
When John turned round slowly upon them, he
was a little overawed as he awoke to it by the
splendour of their appearance.

I didn't know you were here,' he said.

1 No, only for the day. Where are you going
to the rectory? Come along, then. That's
all right,' said Dick. ' We wanted to go and
look you up, but didn't like.'

Percy gave his brother a push aside.

I should have come fast enough ; but 1
wanted to know first  that's to say, we thought
you might have relations or something. We're
awfully sorry, you know, Jack

1 Awfully sorry,' echoed Dick, eager to make
his sympathy known.

There's nobody but my mother,' said John,
with an effort. ' We are going away tomorrow
morning.'

Going away?'

'Yes. I'm going back with my mother.
There is to be a sale and the house is to be let.'

John forced himself to say all this with an
appearance of stolid calm.

Dick thrust his arm into John's, and, half
roughly, half tenderly, led him along.

Come and talk to Aunt Mary,' he said. This
was his own idea of consolation. He could not
himself say anything that would be of any use
to a mourner ; but Aunt Mary, if anyone, could.
Dick always said that he would back her
against the world.

John suffered himself to be led along a little
more quickly than the pace at which he had
been going along the street. He was vaguely
encouraged by Dick's arm within his, and even
by Percy's little trim shadow walking along on
the other side of him. The boys had naturally
nothing to say. What could they have to say to
a comrade in trouble 1 They could only stand
by him ; grip his hand till he cried out ; hold
his arm tight in theirs ; get him a chair, as
if he had been a girl ; minister to his wants in
any way he would let them : but otherwise,,
beyond ' awfully sorry what could they say 1

6 We have made a run home to see Aunt
Mary and Elle,' said Percy, * but we can't stay

above an hour or two. It's a capital offence,
don't you know, to be out of college without
leave ; but Dick had something he wanted to
look to, and so had I. I wish we had come before
yesterday

It didn't matter,' said John.

We tried hard,' said Dick, ' and then we
thought at least you'd like to see us before '

'Are you going to town, Jack? Best thing
for you. You will be sure to get something
there. And nothing so easy as to meet one's
friends in town said Percy, briskly. Dick
was inclined to make allusions, to dwell upon
the departure from Edgeley, and repeat that he
was awfully sorry. But Percy was much morea
man of the world. It was always better, he
had heard, to speak in the most cheerful way
to fellows who were in trouble, and direct their
eyes beyond the trouble to the time when all
should be cheerful again. ' You must leave us
your address,' he said. ' We constantly run upto
town. We shall see more of you than if you
were staying here.'

I don't know if I shall have an address,' said
John. ' I  don't know where I'm going. I'm

all at sea. I know nothing. It's like a mist  '

1 know,' said Percy, soothingly : * that's how
fellows feel ; but it can't last like that. You'll
have to pick up, and go on again, don't you
know.'

Dick did not say anything, but he gave John's
arm a sort of hug, which almost threw the boy
off his feet.

f Why, there's Elle running along in her wild
way. She ought to know that she's not a child
now,' said Percy, who understood it was a good
thing to divert a fellow's thoughts from himself
and his troubles as soon as possible. ' Hallo,
Ell ! Where are you running, like a rabbit, and
never looking? and here we are, and here's
Jack.'

Oh, you have come !' said Elle, suddenly
perceiving them, with a flash of her eyes from
one to another, but holding out her hand to
John between them. ' You ought to have been
here yesterday, you know. What does it
matter coming now ? Jack, Aunt Mary wants
you. Never mind the boys. Oh, you two, why
didn't you come yesterday ? Don't tell me you
couldn't have come if you had tried !'

1 We couldn't, though,' said Percy ; while
Dick, drawing his arm from John's, stood
abashed, making no reply. 'You don't know
what a fellow old Scrymgeour is. He won't
give you leave. And to-day we came, you
know, without asking. So we've got to be
back before the gates are closed.'

I know,' said Elle, * you've come to-day for
your own pleasure ; but when there was something
serious to do, something you were wanted

for John, do run; Aunt Mary is waiting

for you, and afterwards you can see these two.
You might have had sense enough,' she added,
as John left them ; * you might have had heart
enough  the last of the two old people that
were always so nice to us  and then poor Jack.
Papa saw it,' said Elle, as if that was something
unusual, * as well as Aunt Mary and me.'

Funerals are horrible things,' said Dick,
under his breath.

 But what is the use of talking when we
couldn't manage it V said Percy, glibly. ' We
thought it better to come and see him, poor old
beggar, after. And, I say, what's all this about
a mother? Has he got a mother? and perhaps

a sister and a brother ? and no doubt a nearer
one still and a dearer one?'

How dare you laugh,' cried Elle, stamping
her foot : and ' I say, stop that !' said Dick,
with a low growl.

John did not hear anything beyond the
merest murmur of this conversation. He left
them quarrelling, explaining themselves with
that ease of brother and sisterhood which sets
all politeness at defiance, and hurried on as
Elle had directed him to see Mrs. Egerton.
Perhaps John had not the same absolute confidence
in her powers of consolation that her
nephew had, but she had always been very kind
to him, and he went with a sort of dull pleasure,
knowing that she would be even more kind
than usual to-day. She was in her own special
room, the morning-room, which looked out over
the shrubberies to the village street in the distance,
and whence she saw, more or less, all
that was going on. It was a room more useful
than ornamental, with bookshelves filled with
shabby books, which formed a sort of extra
lending library for the parish, and cupboards
full of the goods purchased for the Clothing

Club, and all sorts of parish necessities ; but it
was also very bright, with its corner windows,
one in each angle, and its air of occupation and
cheerfulness. Mrs. Egerton looked up as John
came in after a little tap at the door. She held
out her hand to him across the table, where she
was busy with the concerns of the parish, and
drew him to a chair opposite to her.

Dear boy,' she said, * how I have wanted to
see you.' Her smile was beaming warm with
kindness. It was not love, but it was the nearest
thing to it, and it warmed the chilled and famished
youth.

Well,' she said, ' I hope you were coming tome
of yourself, John.'

I was on my way,' he said.

That's right ! I thought you would not
desert your old friends. 1 told Elle to look out
for you, and, if you were not coming, to bring
you. Now tell me, my dear boy, do you go or
stay V

6 We are going tomorrow, Mrs. Egerton.'

1 To-morrow ! So soon as that ? And you
say we '

With my mother, Mrs. Egerton.'

He grew a little pale, and so, it seemed, did
she.

Is that  that lady your mother, John V

1 Yes he said, and no more.

And you knew all along that your mother
was living ? How strange that you never spoke
of her that we never heard  I hope, dear John,
I I trust '

She had meant to say, ' that she is kind to
you.' But her courage failed her in sight of his
pale, set face.

'We heard from her always regularly, but
there seemed nothing to write about. She had
given me up to my grandparents.' John had
to pause to get rid of the sob in his throat ; but
he was determined to tell all he knew, to leave
nothing to be found out. ' She has been living
in London, with little time to herself.'

It was a curiously lame story. He felt it was
so, as he told it ; hitherto it had all seemed
simple enough. He met Mrs. Egerton's look of
interest and her interrogative 'Yes?' with
sudden confusion, as if it was all a made-up tale.

Yes V she said, and paused with her eyes full
of a hundred questions expecting him to resume.

But John had told everything he had to tell,
and stopped short with no more to say. She sat
looking at him for a minute longer expecting
when he should resume. Then, as he said nothing,
she asked, as if to make a beginning
again and draw him on, ' Are there any more of
the family V

1 I have a sister,' John said.

Oh ! a sister. I am very glad to hear it. I
am extremely glad for your sake. A sister is so
near  a sister will sympathise. I have seen 
Mrs. Sandford, once : it seems so strange to say
that name and not to mean your dear old grand-mamma,
my kind, true old friend.' Mrs. Egerton's
bright eyes were moistened with tears, but
John sat stolid in the stupidity of his grief, and
made no sign. ' Did you know I had seen her
once?' she said. 'She is Mrs. Sandford, isn't
she ? and that is your name 1 She must have
married  a cousin, I suppose V

John made no reply. He felt a sense of guilt
come over him. He said to himself that she
was not Mrs. Sandford, nor was that his name ;
but his lips were sealed. He did not himself
know how it was. His discovery of his own

childish name had led to no further discoveries,
and in his own family no one had given him
any help to understand how it was. The subject
was one which now he could not enter
upon with his mother ; and he felt by instinct,
though no warning had ever been given to him,
that it was a subject he must not speak of to
others. So he made no answer, but in his heartfelt
a pang of secret guilt. He had not been
used to secrets, especially he had not been used
to concealing anything about himself: and now,
in the sting of this consciousness, he sat silent,
unresponsive, feeling himself dull and blank in
presence of the kind, genial, affectionate woman
full of curiosity, who wanted to know everything.
She wanted him to tell her everything
to confide in her : and she was disappointed
that the boy to whom she had been so kind
should close up all the avenues to his heart and
make no reply. Then Mrs. Egerton opened her
drawer and took out her present to John. She
was very liberal in the way of presents, loving
to give them, delighted to give pleasure to
others. What she had got for John was a gift
of real value, a pretty gold hunting-watch,

which was much better than the silver one
that his grandparents had given him. It was
very pretty, very nice, very kind ; but when he
took the old shabby silver one out of his pocket
which had been given him when he was a boy,
which had never gone very well, in order to
make place for the new one, he tried his best to
thank his kind friend, but he held the little
old watch in his hand and gazed at it with
troubled eyes.

You must give it away to some one,' said
Mrs. Egerton. ' It will be a pleasure for you to
give it to some good lad  Hedger's boy, perhaps,
who has been with you so long.'

He murmured an assent, but put the old
watch back again into another pocket with a
quick revolt of feeling. Give it away  to Ned
Hedger. Oh ! no, no, not for the world ! He
would keep it all his life for grandmamma's
sake.

Then there was a tumult in the room with
the entrance of all the young people, and John
did his best to allow himself to be ' cheered up '
by the boys as they intended. But he was not
cheered up, and was very glad to steal away with

Elle to go ' once round the garden,' she said, before
he went away. The rectory garden had witnessed
so many of the pleasures of his childhood.
It was big and old-fashioned, with an orchard
attached, where the children had roamed at
their pleasure. The girl and the boy set out
talking with a little show of vivacity, but, as
they strayed along the shady paths, they got
more and more silent. At the bottom of the
orchard, where the long stretch of the common
showed under the trees, and all was silent and
full of recollections, Elle suddenly thrust her
hand into his.

Oh, Jack !' she said, * how will you bear
going away? Always think of me just hereunder
the old pear-tree. Look how it is coming
out like a great white tower of blossoms. I shall
come here and think of you ; and that will keep
us near to each other. And, Jack '

< Yes, Elle V

4 If you should feel lonely or anything  if you
should miss home very much  oh, just think !
I'll come and do my algebra here, and think of
you. It will be always something  not like
your grandmother, but always something  a

little bit of a home just here under the pear-tree.'


Elle,' said John, ' will you do one thing forme
? There is nobody but you that I would ask.'

1 Yes, I will, Jack ; half-a-dozen. Tell me
what it is.'

 There are the two old chairs by the fire.
They will be sold like all the rest. I've money
enough to buy them, but nowhere to put them.
Oh, Elle !'

They shall stand in my own room. I'll
always keep them there,' said Elle, with enthusiasm,
' the two dear old chairs ! Oh ! yes, yes,
Jack ; in my own room.'

Thanks, awfully,' said John.

He grasped the little, warm hand she had put
into his, and they stood for a moment holding
each other, like two children, by the hand.

Oh, Jack ! this is dreadfully like good-bye
now !'

1 It is good-bye. Elle, you give the boys a
kiss when they go away. Won't you give me
one too ? Oh, not if you don't like ; it's only
because it seems cold, just shaking hands, after
what you have said.'

VOL. I. Y

There was no blush on John's simple face.
He meant in absolute sincerity what he said.
The girl reddened, being, perhaps, a little more
advanced in life, though a year younger than
the boy. She turned away her head for the
moment, but then turned to him again with a
steady look, and suddenly inclined her head
towards him.

Yes, Jack ; it will be like being brother and
sister really, and for good

'For good,' he repeated, touching her fresh
cheek with honest, tender lips ; and then they
went back sedately to the house, very quiet,
with a certain awe upon them. For it is a ceremonial,
and a sad one, to say that first goodbye.


CHAPTER I.

OUT IN THE WORLD.

Out in the world.

It was not so long a journey as that he had
taken to Liverpool with the curate, but how
different it was ! Then he had his home to
return to ; he had set forth curious indeed and
interested, with a hope of discovering something
about himself, but always dth the idea of going
back to the quiet of his own life and working it
out. He had his natural anchorage, his harbour
to sail back to, and no need to think of facing
by himself the storms of life. He had not been
happy then ; but even his sadness, his trouble,
even the mystery thrown into his life, his dis-vol.

II. B

quietude, all these were so different. That was
only a sort of amateur trouble, a playing at
distress. Now it enveloped him on every side.
He sat down opposite to his mother in the
railway carriage, and saw everything that he
had known gliding away from him, disappearing
into the distance. He did not know where
he Alas going, or to what. She said nothing to
him, not a word of his home, or of his new life ;
and his old had come to an end, as if he had
died.

As if he had died ! In some ways it would
have been more satisfactory to have died. Then
his name and memory, the name which he knew
best, without any mystery attached to it, would
always have remained in the same place, and
the whole village would have been sorry, and
talked of him with bated breath, shaking their
heads in sympathy. Poor boy, to have died so
young ! and Elle and the boys would have looked
after his grave. Elle at least would have
done it. She would never have forgotten.
Tears came into John's eyes when he thought
of Elle going with her flowers to his grave,
crying a little, never forgetting him. He made

a little picture to himself, in which he saw her
leaning over the turf, arranging her posy to his
memory : and his eyes moistened with sadness
which had in it an exquisite sort of melancholy
please. For after all it is not so dreadful
for the very young to contemplate dying : the
violets on the' grave breathe to them a great
consolation and the thought of the universal
sympathy ; they have not got so engrafted into
life, so determined in all its habits as their elders.
But when John turned to the other side, and
found himself facing that blank world of the
unknown  not knowing what he was to do, having,
so to speak, no say in it, depending entirely
upon what She should decide  there was no
consolation at all in it, nothing that corresponded
to the violets on the grave.

He did not know how his life was to be
shaped, where he was to go, what he was to do.
She had brought away a few things with her,
but very few  grand mamma's work-basket, in
which she had kept her knitting, and in which,
had John had his will, the last unfinished piece
of that knitting should have been kept for ever
a selection of the books which she had made

B 2

carefully, rejecting so many that grandfather
had been proud of, and which she had said were
of no use : but they would have been of use to
John : an old picture or two from the walls,
portraits with which John had been acquainted
all his life, and one little old-fashioned bureau
of carved wood, which had always stood in a
corner, which he had never seen opened, and to
which she seemed to attach great importance.
These, vith some of the old lady's boxes, were
all she brought away. And John had to come
out of the house, leaving it as if the old people
might come in from their walk at any moment.
Had it been pulled to pieces first he thought it
would have been less dreadful : but probably
had that been done, and all the old furniture
scattered, he would have thought it worse
still. Everything had the aspect of being the
worst that could happen in his present state of
mind. Mr. Cattley came to the station to say
good-bye. He was very civil to Mrs. Sandford,
but he grasped John's hand without a word.

You'll write,' he said, just as the train
glided away. And the porters touched their
hats and said ' Good-bye, Mr. John,' with a kind

recollection of sixpences past. And so the boy-disappeared
from Edgeley, and his early life
ended as if he had died, only that the severance
was still more complete.

There was very little said until they drew
near the great smoke which was London,
and which roused a little excitement in John's
fatigued bosom, as it began to stain the sky
so long before they amved. It was almost
night when they reached the great bustling
-crowded station  dusk at least, the lamps beginning
to twinkle, the air growing cold which had
been almost warm in spring brightness in the
earlier part of the day. Mrs. sandford had all
her packages collected and placed on a cab, with
little assistance from John, who was bcT-ildered
and confused by all the commotion and tumult,
people running against him on all sides,
and shrieking at each other. She was perfectly
collected, business-like, and calm, understanding
exactly what to do, and evidently accustomed
to manage everything for herself; and the
officials about seemed to recognise her, and
were particularly ready and assiduous in her
service. She made John get into the cab

before her, like a child, and told the cabman
Avhere to drive ; and it was only when they began
this last brief part of their journey that she
gave him any information as to where he was
going.

It is time I should tell you,' she said, * that I
cannot have you to live with me, John. I
should perhaps have said this before. I don't
know whether you are aware what my occupation
is, though of course you have always
addressed your letters to me at the hospital.'

John looked with quickened interest at the
close black bonnet and cloak, perceiving their
difference from other people's bonnets and
cloaks as if for the first time. It was not for
the first time. He had remarked it at once and
always, feeling the difference. But then, in her,
everything was different.

I know,' he said, ' the letters were always
addressed to the hospital.'

That is my profession,' she said ; ' I am the
matron. I had to take to that when I was left
alone. I had two children to provide for, and
myself worse than penniless. I don't say this
to claim your pity. I have always been quite

able for my work, and it suited me. An idle
woman I never could have been '

There was nothing left for him to say. He
might, perhaps, have shown a little feeling  for
he had never heard anything about working
women, and recognised it as the natural state
of affairs that they should stay at home ; but she
quenched any sentimentality of that sort at
once.

 And then my father and mother took you off
my hands,' she said, with the same composure,
so that I was perfectly free. For, of course,
Susie could go with me anywhere. I have been
in the hospital for nine years. My rooms are
very comfortable  for Susie and me : but I
could not take you there. I have got lodgings
for you close by.'

Oh,' said John. He thought it was a relief
to hear this, but then fell back upon himself
bitterly, feeling that it was a new wrong and
misery. No home, not even the semblance of a
shelter, no place that belonged to him. It
struck him with a sense of misery and shame.

It is too late to take you with me, even for
tea  the hours and rules are naturally very

strict ; but I have ordered everything for you.
You will find it quite comfortable. You will
have enough to do unpacking and settling yourself
to-night, and tomorrow at ten you may
come to the hospital. If Susie had been able,
she would have come to assist us, but this is
one of the busy days. She must have had a
great deal to do.'

Is Susan  working in the hospital, too V

She helps me. She is very good, very serviceable
 being a girl, she fits into everything,
and spares me a great deal of trouble.'

And I suppose I fit into nothing,' said John.

It is a pity you should take it up in that
way ; but it is true enough. A woman and her
daughter can go anywhere. They are sure to
be able to help each other. But a boy is quite
different, as you say.'

Nothing further was said for a time, and John
swallowed as best he could the bitterness that
filled his mind. It was like a flood which rose
and drowned every other sensation. Was he
then of no use, a mere encumbrance, he whom
everybody had looked upon as a boy who was
going to do great things ? The contrast of all

that had been, with all that now was, became
more and more bitter. He broke silence again
after two or three clearings of his throat.

I hope, though I am so useless to you, and
only a burden, that I may get something to doat
least. I  must do something. I cannot be
unpacking and settling myself all my life.'

Don't be afraid,' said his mother. ' I encourage
idleness in no one. Here we are at
your lodgings. You had better get do\Ti your
boxes yourself, with the aid of the cabman.
There is only a maid-of-all-work in the house. *

John stumbled out of the carriage in haste
and bitterness of soul. The cab had stopped
at the door of an old-fashioned red brick house,
looking small but pleasant enough, with a very
white doorstep, and a woman standing in the
doorway who smiled and nodded her much-adorned
cap at him by way of welcome. He
snatched his boxes from the cabman's hands
and carried them in himself almost with violence,
which was a little safety-valve to him, and
worked off the passionate perturbation of his
spirit. Mrs. Sandford got out too, and walked
into the little front parlour, which opened on

one side of the door. On the opposite side of
the street there was a great sombre building,
with rows of Halted windows rising high over
the level of this little row of houses, and the
only prospect visible from them. Mrs. Sandford
cast the quick look of a person in authority
round the room.

You had better take down those curtains,'
she said. ' He will be better without them ;
they are mere traps for dust, and keep out the
fresh air, I hope you have arranged everything
else as I told you.'

I've made everything as nice as I could,'
said the smiling woman ; ' and I hope as the
young gentleman will be 'happy with me.'

I hope I may have reason to be satisfied with
your treatment of him. You know, Mrs. Williams,
I have something in my power.'

Oh, la, yes, mum ! I knows that,' said the
woman, in a tone of alarm : and then she made
John a curtsey, picking up her smile again with
an air of having put it into a corner for a moment,
which would have amused him had he
been able to be touched by such light thoughts.

He had in the meantime thrust the boxes which
contained his owen property into the little bedroom
beyond, which opened with folding doors
from the parlement it was the glimpse this
afforded which had prompted the remark about
the curtains, grim articles of hard red woollen
stuff, which half covered the windows of the
inner room.

Mrs. Sandford gave another glance around
her. The table in the centre of the room was
partially covered with a cloth, and laid apparently
for that meal which is called a heavy tea.
There was a plate of ham, a quantity of waters
a pat of butter, and a little loaf, and by
the side of all this a battered old tea-tray with
the japanning half worn off, on which were the
tea things, the big cup and saucer and jug of
blue milk, familiar to the dwellers in London
lodgings. Mrs. Sandford cast a glance at all
this with apparent satisfaction.

It is not what you have been used to,' she
said ; ' but it is not bad for the kind of thing.
I hope you \\]\. be able to make yourself comfortable
here. Susie will come and see you if

she can to-night, and tomorrow at ten I shall
expect you at the hospital. I must go now.
Good-night'

She paused a moment, turned back, laid her
hand on his shoulder, and kissed him lightly on
the forehead. It was the first time she had done
so, and John had a feeling that it was because of
the presence of the spectator, who might have
made remarks upon the cold parting of the
mother and son  this thought gave him a feeling
of horror and repulsion not to be described.
He grew red, as with a sense of insult. She
had come to the place where she was known,
and Idssed him to keep up appearances. The
youth could have struck her as he drew his
cheek away.

Perhaps she too felt that what she had done
was not natural. She withdrew too with 
an angry colour rising over her features.
Motives are so mixed, and human sentiments so
complex. Perhaps it was because of the presence
of that spectator that she had kissed her
son ; and yet there were many other feelings in
her mind ; quivering of long-suppressed emotion,
and an impulse in which there were many

tender elements. But she saw what he thought,
and there was enough truth in it to make it a
new sting to her that he should have thought
so. She went away back to her cab A\athout
another word, and he stood and watched while
it crossed the street and drew up at a door a
short distance off, a side door in the great building
with its many lights. There he stood gazing-
while the cabman delivered his load of packages.
He ought to have helped, perhaps ; to have
gone with her and seen her safely landed. But
he stood instead at a distance, looking on with
unfriendly eyes, with his mother's kiss still burning
and stinging. How strange that it should
be so ! He stayed there till she had disappeared
With all her goods, and the cab had driven
away ; then returned to the little parlour of his
lodgings alone.

It was a great wonder to him to find himself
there, and to think that he was in London, in
the heart of the great place to which every
man's eyes are turned, where everything is to
be done, where all that is pleasant and gay, and
ail that is noisy and temple, are going on. He
had perhaps thought, even in his subdued state.

even under the chilling shadow of his mother's
wing, something of this kind. However subdued
one may be, however little desire one may
have for amusement or commotion, yet in London
it is inevitable that one should be amused
and excited. It comes, in spite of one's self, in
the mere clamour of so much life, in the bustle
of the streets, in the noise and riot. So he
had thought, as so many think every day. But
what had really happened to John in London
was that he had fallen into the completest stillness,
a quiet more than the quiet of the village,
a loneliness such as he had never known before.
His landlady had lighted two candles on the
table. She had drawn down the blind, shutting
out a bit of daffodil sky, the last lingering of
day in the midst of the coming night. All was
shut up, above, without  and John was alone.

What a form for novelty to take, for the first
night of London, for the excitement of a new
life ! He sank down upon the hard horse-hair
sofa, and looked round with speechless dismay.
Here he was shut up as in a box, closed in, as if
he were in a prison. In a prison it would
almost be more cheerful ; you would be aware,

at least, of a host of other minds, of other hearts
beating. Here there was nothing. A little
parlour, with a Httle bed-room behind ; a landlady,
with nodding ribbons in her cap ; a door
which shuts out the world. It was Uke waking
up after a night of fiery dreams, and finding
yourself shut in a closet, separated from everything
 the blind drawn, the door closed, the
room shut up, and the young victim all alone.

CHAPTER II.

LONDON.

He had eaten, for he was hungry, and ham and
bread and butter are not to be despised when
nothing better is to be had. Even, which was
curious to his state of mind, he had eaten largely,
putting up before him the railway book which
he had not read on his journey, and going on
unconsciously with his vigorous, youthful appetite.
This, the first act of his solitude, was by
no means so disagreeable as he had feared. It
increased his personal comfort, for he had eaten
scarcely anything all day, and the increase of
personal comfort ameliorates everything. When
he had finished, he carried one of his candles to
a small table near the window, and sat down
there and read on, finishing his book, which had
interested him. When he had closed it, and

laid it on the table, the realisation of all the
circumstances, which returned to his mind, was
not so heavy as the first time. His heart began
to spring up again, after being crushed under
the foot of fate. It began to throb and tingle
with the thought that he was in London, on the
border of everything that was most living and
desirable. The little fumes of interest of his
story increased the effect by soothing away his
personal misery. And now, as he sat in the
small, silent room, something came to him which
he had been conscious of all along, without
knowing what it was, a sound continuous, like
the far-off sound of the sea or of the wind, but
subdued, as though the storm was far off, a
sound which, now that he was free from those
claims made by his lowered bodily condition
upon his mind, became more and more apparent,
filling the air with an uninterrupted murmur.
What was it ?

He sat up and listened, and then, wth an
excitement which made his heart jump, he
recognised what it was. It was London ! Had
he not read in many a book of that great, low
volume of sound, which some people described

VOL. II. C

as the sound of many waters, and some as the
distant roar of a tempest. It was soft here in
his little hermitage, amid the strange solitude
and silence, but rolled and murmured continuous,
never ending. He perceived now that he
had noticed it from the first moment, that all
along he had wondered when it would stop,
vaguely disquieted by it without knowing what
it was ; and now he knew that it would never
stop, that it was the breath of the great multitude,
the hum of their endless going on and on.
John sat and listened to it till it went to his
head, exciting him like wine. He could not
rest. The contrast of this little prison-chamber
in which he sat, and all that was implied in that
low, continuous roar and hum of men, stirred his
imagination more and more. He got up and
opened the window, and looked out. Opposite
to him was the great mass of building dark
against the sky, which seemed to oppress and
stifle the neighbourhood, taking away the air:
but outside of that, away across the river where
the world was, the hum, the roar, the continuous
roll of sound came stronger and stronger.
It called upon the young soul which stood and

throbbed and listened. He had the habits of
his youth and innocence strong upon him  a
sort of unspoken sense of duty that restrained
him and kept him from following his own impulses.
It was not till some time had elapsed
that he began to think it possible to obey
that call  to go out and see what it was which
gave forth that mighty voice. When the thought
entered his mind it filled all his veins with excitement.
Should he go ? Why should he not
go ? No word had been said to him to bind
him to remain where he was. It was not to
waste day and night shut up in a dreary little
room that he had come to London. He looked
round upon the blank, grey walls, and found
their bondage intolerable. It was like a box
in which he was shut up. His brain and his
veins seemed to be swelling, bursting sith life
that must have an outlet somehow. No, certainly,
he could not stay there. He must have
air and room to breathe ; he must see for himself
what was meant by London. But John,
even in his excitement, was prudent. He put
away his watch  which was not the one Mrs.
Egerton had given him, but the old, dear silver

cone,

the one that had no value at all and yet so
gi-eat a value. He was aware that in London
the natural thing was to rob a countryman, to
take his watch from him. He would not expose
his treasure to such a risk ; but when he had
laid that away he felt, with confidence, that
there was nothing else to lose. They might
hustle or knock him down, if they could, but
there was nothing else they could do to him.
Nevertheless, it was with something of that
warlike exhilaration, with which a struggle is
foreseen at his age, that John buttoned his coat
and took his hat. He felt that ' they ' (though
he had not the least notion who they might be)
would not have an easy bargain of him.

He went out without even being remarked.
No * Where are you going V * When will you
come back ?' to impede his liberty. That fact
also went to his heart a little. He had felt his
loneliness very forlorn  now he felt it exciting,
exhilarating. He set his hat firmly on his head,
and drew a long breath when he felt the fresh
air of the night, so different from that of any
parlour, encircle him with its coolness and vastness.
That, too, has an intoxication in it which

everything that is young acknowledges. The
air may be sober in the morning  it is Hke wine
at night. The darkness has a mystery, a magic
in it  the lights twinkling through it  the
world made into something ideal, in which miracles
are. John stood still for a moment at the
door, realising that he was there, that he was
unshackled  his own master  and then, drawn
by the great voice that called and called him,
he turned his face towards the distant blazing
of the Hghts, and set out  to discover that new
world.

To discover London ! how many do it everyday,
-svith hearts beating high, with hopes immeasurable,
which so often collapse and come
to nothing ; but this is not the time for moralising.
John set out. His way began in the
darkness of this little street, with its little houses,
faced by the great sombre shadow of the hospital,
which shut out the air from it and the sky.
He plunged into the darkness at first, making
Lis way between rows of insignificant buildings,
with a feeble shop here and there flashing its
faint illumination, and then, with a great sweep
of fresh air seizing him, came out upon the

bridge. The sky was full of the clearness of
spring, though there was no moon. The river
flowed dark and silent below, faintly visible
further up the stream in pale streaks of reflection,
across which would rise a dark and ghostly
shadow of something floating, a barge, a heavy
blackness in the middle of the faint light ; but
lamps blazing overhead, the glare of gas, and
here and there the chill contradictory artificial
moon of the electric light ' swearing ' horribly,
as the French say, with all the yellow lamps
around. The murmur of sound grew and grew
as the boy went on; it was a rhythmic roar
as of waves beating against a shore, or the rush
of a prodigious waterfall, a great moral Niagara,
higgler than any physical falls, however gigantic.
It was made up of the sounds of carriages of
every description, of voices, the hum of the
crowd constantly broken by some shrill interruption
of a cry or shout, which gave emphasis to
the general continual, unfailing current of sound.
He hurried along, quickening his pace, led by it
as if it had been a syren's song.

On the other side of the river a noble mass of
walls and towers rose against the night. He guessed

what it was, and his heart beat high. Then
suddenly he was over the bridge, he was in it,
in the very crowd itself, among the thunder of
the carriages, the perpetual movement of the
passengers, the very heart of London  he
thought even, in awe, holding his breath  of the
Avorld. Was that Parliament ? He got as near
as he could and watched the carriages, the
heads appearing at the windows, men in whose
hands Alas the fate of the world. John felt as
if he had some hand in it all as he watched them
dashing up to the doorway, sometimes cheered,
Aath a running fire of remark volleying about
from the voices of the crowd. It Alas all so unusual,
that he could scarcely make out at first
what the people about him said ; and, when he
understood the words, he did not understand the
allusions, not knowing who the members were
or anything but that they were members, and
therefore surrounded with a halo of wonder and
interest. Presently one of the men standing
near began to perceive his ignorance and
curiosity, and to osier explanations. But John
was not so simple as that, he said to himself. He
knew that the danger of London was to listen

to people who expressed themselves benevolently
towards you, and wanted to give you information.
He withdrew accordingly from that
spot, and by-and-by, feeling that there were still
other worlds beyond, left this scene of overwhelming
interest altogether, promising himself
that he would look up all the prints in the shop
windows, and so learn to identify the members
of parliament himself.

The dark shadow to his right hand was that
of the xlbbey. He held his breath with awe,
but he was in no mood for the silence and darkness.
He followed the roar and crush of the
crowd through a dark, broad, vacant street or
two until he emerged into another kind of blaze
and din, into the tumult and bustle and noise
and commotion of the Strand. Here the shops,
the lights, the wild confusion of traffic, the
hoarse cries, the flare and glare and riot, the
wild medley of life, the wretched figures in
squalid groups, the gentlemen passing with
evening dress under their overcoats, the ragged
and shouting vendors of the newspapers, the
crowds rushing to the theatres, the other crowds
that hung upon their steps and importuned them

vdih unnecessary services, ended in turning
altogether John's young and unaccustomed
brain. He was hustled by the ceaseless stream
of people rushing past him in both ways, coming
and going, and after a while felt himself like a
straw upon a river, carried along without knowing
where he was going, tossed into a corner,
seized again by the stream, swept away breathless,
with a strange pleasure and wonder and
disgust and incomprehension. He was doing
nothing but gazing, looking on wondering where
they were all going, what they all meant, what
need there was to hurry so, to shout so ; and
yet he felt as if he too were living, as he never
before had lived all his life.

Strange illusion ; an older man perhaps
would have concluded that here was no real
life at all, but only a fantastic, half-conscious
dream. Half the people streaming along were
doing it by no will of their own, but only because
of the treadmill action of habit, which
made them fancy this way of spending the
evening the natural thing to do  and that to
go somewhere, to do something, as they said 
that is to frequent noisy places in which the

depth of dulness was touched, yet where
rampant folly extracted a strained laugh  or
to bustle out and in of swinging doors, and exchange
jests at bars, and rub shoulders with
crowds, coming and going  was life. It was
life indeed for the poor hangers-on greedy for
pence or sixpences, to the poor hawkers of
miserable merchandises, to the servants of the
crowd. To them it was fatigue, cold, disappointment,
weary waiting, miserable snatches at
recompense, eager greed, and accumulation and
gain ; bread, perhaps to poor little children in
squad rooms somewhere about, or whisky at
the street corners  at all events, a real yet
possible existence, the only one of which they
were conscious or capable. The more wretched
in such scenes have the advantage of the less.
The newspaper boy, the girl with her poor
basket of faded flowers, the hundred other
vassals of the crowd are real in their poor work
and competition. It is their masters, the lords
of unruly, who are the ghosts.

John, driven hither and thither by the currents
of passengers, happily was as unaware as a
woman of the darker and more horrible dangers

of the streets. No squalid siren smiled for him ;
he did not understand these profounder depths.
But the confusion and the noise, and the
strange contrast of pleasure and wretchedness
the carnages passing, "with pretty glimpses of
white figures bound for the theatres, the groups
of the ragged and miserable on the pavement,
the whole resounding, conflicting, moving
world gave him a sort of intoxication, so that
he scarcely knew what he was about, or where
he was.

He had got in front of one of the theatres in
the midst of a crowd more noisy than usual, the
pavement encumbered with poor and squalid
spectators, with men shrieking their wares to
sell, and pushing books of words into the carriage
windows, the confusion of cabs and carriages
greater than ever, when John was
suddenly roused out of all this phantasmagoria
to something real. As he stood gazing, his eyes
suddenly fell upon a group at the entrance of
the theatre, a man with a tall, shiny hat, and
coat buttoned up to his throat, with a woman
somewhat fantastically but poorly dressed, on
his arm. They were standing to see the people

get out of their carriages, with looks somewhat
wistful, as if envious of the pleasure the others
were about to enjoy. The man, who was tall,
inspected the ladies with a smile half patronising,
half satirical. But the wife looked pathetically,
wistfully, with an envy which was not
bitter, nor bore any trace of unkindness. They
were standing close together, rapt in that sight.
At the woman's feet was a child, holding fast
by her skirts. While the parents gazed, something
caught the eye of the little girl, a flower
which somebody had dropped out of the window
of a carriage. The little thing made one spring,
while the absorbed attention of her parents was
fixed upon the play-goers, and secured the prize
out of the mud of the street, but not before the
prancing horse of a hansom, drawn back suddenly
upon its haunches, was dashing its hoofs
into the air over her head. There was a
universal shriek and commotion, in the midst of
which the mother put down her hand instinctively
but tranquilly to grasp the child. Then,
finding it absent, she gave a wild cry, and
turned round with arms wildly waving, facing
the crowd. John took no time to think. He

was the nearest, or thought himself so, and he
was pushed forward by the sinking crowd.
He flung himself on the child, caught it, tossed
it back to some one, he could not tell whom 
but fell forward with the impetus. He felt a
sharp touch on his head like a knife, and then no
more  till he came to himself with the sensation
of a crowd round him, and of cool applications
applied to his head, which seemed to burn under
the hands of some one who was leaning over
him.

It will be nothing, it will be nothing,' he
heard some one say ; and then, ' A wonderful
escape,' * It might have killed him,' in different
tones. It seemed to John at first to be but
another scene in that bewildering phantasmagoria
through which he had been walking.
When he opened his eyes he found that he was
in an apothecary's shop, which was crowded
with people, faces everywhere filling up the
window outside, piled one upon another. Close
to him stood the man in the tall and very shiny
hat. John caught in it the reflection of the
great blue and red bottles in the window, and
burst into a feeble laugh.

Gently, gently, you're all right : but there's
nothing to laugh about,' some one said.

Where am I V said John, still fascinated by
the reflection.

*Me dear young gentleman, ye have done a
heroic action. We've behaved like a hero.
Yere saved me child,' said the man in the hat.

*Now stand back. Let him have plenty of
air. Try if you can stand,' said another voice.

John stood up, but felt faint and giddy. It
seemed ridiculous in a few minutes to change
from the robust village youth who feared nothing
to a creature whose head seemed to swim
independent of him, and who could not steady
himself. He caught at the arm of the tall man
to support himself.

That's right, that's right, me noble boy. I'll
take him home with me. The child is unhurt,
me young hero. She's waiting out o' doors Ayith
her mother, who's longing to embrace ye and
bless ye. Come, it's but a step to me humble
door.'

John was not quite clear about this address,
but he was glad of the tall man's arm, on which
he could lean, and allowed himself to be led

away in a dazed condition through the crowd,
followed by the woman and the child, who was
still crying with fright and excitement. The
mother, happily, neither embraced nor blessed
him, but he was so dazed that he scarcely knew
what happened, except that she looked at him
anxiously, with troubled eyes. He was glad of
the support of the man, who guided him very
kindly for a little way through the crowded
street, then suddenly turned down a quiet one.
Here the waft of a purer, colder air upon John's
face brought him to himself, and he would have
drawn his arm from that of his guide.

'I can go now,' he said, 'thank you. I'm
myself, now '

What, let you go like this  the saviour of
me child's life  when we're close to our humble
door ? Never !' said his new friend. ' Maria,
go first and light a candle  you've got the
key '

And presently John found himself, after stumbling
up several flights of stairs, in a room high
up, very shabbily and sparely furnished, where
there was a glimmer of fire, and where he was
not unwilling to sit down and rest, though his

senses had come back to him, and he began to
recover from the shock. While he sat looking
round him, vaguely wondering with his still
slightly clouded faculties where he was, and if,
perhaps, he might have fallen into some of the
traps he had read of, the couple talked a little
in whispers behind him. Was it of him they
were talking? Were they consulting together
what to do with him ? He smiled to himself
even while he half entertained this thought.
Then one innocent word came to his ears which
made him laugh to himself. It was ' sausages.'
John, in his most suspicious mood, in the deepest
alarms of the country lad, could not suppose
that they meant to make sausages of him. The
sound of his laugh startled both himself and the
little group behind him. The woman hurried
away, and the man came forward with the
grand air which sat so strangely on his evident
poverty.

Ye laugh, me young friend,' he said. ' Perhaps
ye overheard our consultations how to
receive ye, our young benefactor. It is not
much at present that is in Montressor's power,
but what we have is at your service to the last

SOU. I am not an ungrateful, though ye see in
me a fallen man. Did ye see the crowds at
that theatre door? Young sir, a few years ago
it was to see Montressor those crowds  and
there were more, more ! than are ever drawn
now  that those crowds flowed in to boxes, pit,
and gallery, and not a scrap of paper, but all
solid money throughout the house.'

John but dimly understood, but yet had a
glimmering of what was meant.

Are you Montressor V he said.

Montressor lifted his hands, in one of which
was still the shiny hat, to heaven  or rather to
the low, smoke-darkened ceiling which was its
substitute.

Me downfall is indeed proved,' he said, ' me
young friend, when ye have to ask that question.
Me portrait was once in all the shop

windows : but now ' The arms were raised

again, and then Montressor put down his hat
and drew a chair towards the waning fire,
which he poked gently and with precaution.
If she's to cook 'em when she comes in, we must
mind the fire,' he said, falling into a more
familiar tone, and raking together the embers
VOL. II. D

with a careful and experienced hand.  Ye find
me, young gentleman, in a small apartment that
is kitchen and chamber and hall, as the song
says. What does it matter to a lofty mind, belongs
ye find honour and a warm heart of gratitude
there V

But, indeed, I think I must go, said John,
with the timidity of his age. ' I feel all right
now. It was only just for a moment. I feel
quite steady, and I think I must go.'

Not before ye have tasted such hospitality as
I have to give ye, me heroic boy. The saviour
of me child must not go from me doors without
a sign of me appreciation  without a bit of supper,
at least. Maria ! are ye come at last ? And
here is our honoured guest that says he must go.
Come, child, and bid yer deliverer stay.'

Wait and take some supper,' said the woman,
with her pathetic look ; ' it will be a pleasure tous
both. It's not late, and you needn't fear ;
you'll get no harm.'

Harm !' said her husband,  from you, me love,
or from Montressor ? No, he will get no harm,
whatever a brutal manager or designing critics
may say. Thank God, Maria, corrupting the

young was never laid to your husband's charge,
me dear. He shall see that conscious virtue
is not ashamed of humble offices. I will prepare
the table while she makes ready our food.
There is nothing derogatory in that, me young-friend.
Look at Mrs. lontressor if you would
see one that is superior to every fortune. She
has had her cooks, her housemaids, her grooms ;
she has driven in her own carriages, and worn
silks and satins. And now ye see her preparing
to fiy the sausages. And which is the finest
office ?  the last, sir I  for she's always a lady
a perfect lady  whatever her occupation
may be.'

John did not feel called upon to make any
answer to this. He sat in a half dream of wonderment,
while all these domestic arrangements
went on in this strange little interior, where all
was so new and extraordinary to him. How
had he got there ? What sort of place was it ?
What kind of people were these ? The curious
serio-comic character of the episode did not
strike him so much as it might have done an
older spectator ; but the hissing of the sausages
on the fire, before which this unknown woman

d2

stood, her wistful eyes fixed upon the frying-pan,
while her husband, with his fine language-and
fine sentiments, laid the cloth upon the
table behind, were too strange, too peculiar, toa
ridiculous, even  for he was hungry again, and
there was a sort of warm friendliness in the air
that comforted his young, childish soul  too
comfortable, not to affect the boy. He felt a
sort of pleasurable disquietude and alarm and
embarrassment. He ought to go, he felt, but
he was shy and they were kind, and he did not
know how to get himself away. Presently the
child who was the occasion of it all, and who
had clung to her mother's skirts all the time,,
pulled a stool towards John's feet, and sitting
down by him began to pat his leg with soft
little touches.

Did it hurt much,' she said, ' that big horse's
foot? I called mamma and it was you. What
made you get hurt for a poor little girl like me V

What made him? It was God, Edie, to save
you to mother : and God bless him for it,' said
the woman, turning round.

It was a heroic action,' said Montressor, ' it
was the act of a hero, me child. Your saviour

Avill always be to us a noble youth. Me young
benefactor, as yet we do not know your honoured
name.'

John paused for a moment. He never could
tell what curious impulse possessed him. Perhaps
it was because he was in a new world of
his own discovery, with which no one else had
anything to do. He said, with the blood rushing
to his face,

My name is John May.'

When he heard his own voice, his heart gave
a great leap and throb ; but whether it was the
feeling of one who takes a false name, or of one
who for the first time claims a true one, he could
not tell. The act, which was almost involuntary,
filled him Yith. an excitement which lie
could not explain.

May !' cried Montressor  ' Maria I what did I
say? that there was something in the countenance
of this noble youth not unfamiliar. I
knew a May once  I have not forgotten him.
Me young friend, ye are like that companion
of me youth  yes, ye are like him. I felt it
from the first. He was the kindest, the dearest
but misfortune fell upon him. Ah ! may it be

that the blood of our friend runs in your veins
Montressor,' said his wife, hurriedly, *this-young
gentleman can have nothing to do with
the May sou once knew. It is not a thing to
be talked about, that connection. You know
what I mean. There is not the slightest likeness,
nor the least possibility : for goodness sake
keep your ideas to yourself, and think how impossible
 The supper is ready,' she added, in a
lighter tone. ' Come, Mr. May, a little food will
do you good, though it is neither rich nor rare.'

CHAPTER III.

SUSIE.

John did not leave his new friends till late, and
when he did so he felt quite well, nay, more
than well,, in a state of elation and satisfaction
with himself and all the world. The pain from
his wound was quite gone. It had not been
bad at any time. The shock only was what had
affected him. Now he remembered it no more,
except that his hat, when he put it on, pressed
a little upon the place, which was only half
hidden by his hair. Mrs. Montressor had assured
him that it would not show, but John did not
care whether it showed or not : he was, indeed,
rather proud of it, very willing to tell how it
came about, and the whole story of his adventure.
He had supped with pleasure upon the
sausages, and he had shared nth Montressor a

steaming drink, hot and strong and sweet, which
had made him cough, but which gradually had
brought a glow of comfort over him. He had
been a little afraid of it at first, and had not
taken much, but he was quite unaccustomed to
anything of the kind, and it mounted to his head
at once, filling him with causeless elation, satisfaction,
exhilaration.

He felt pleased with himself and everybody
round him. Montressor he thought a capital
fellow, and listened to him with admiration, and
Mrs. Montressor was awfully kind, and the little
girl (whose life he had saved  at first he had
not allowed them to say this  but now he acknowledged
the fact with pleasure) was a dear
little girl. He had never enjoyed himself more.
He was delighted with the adventure, and felt
that this was indeed life. He might have spent
a whole century in Edgeley without meeting
anything of the kind. He got away at last with
difficulty, promising to come back. That is,
Montressor endeavoured to keep him longer,
and John, to tell the truth, had been not at all
indisposed to stay. It was the woman who had
tugged his departure. She had given a great

many hints, she had, indeed, given John a
warning look when her husband got up to fetch
the kettle to make more of that steaming, odoriferous
drink. She had even whispered in his
ear to go, saying that it was time for him to goto
bed ; and half offended, yet half approving,
John had obeyed. None the less he thought
her awfully kind, and Montressor a capital
fellow.

He could not leave them his address, for the
good reason that he did not know it, though
he felt sure that he could find his way back ;
but he promised, ith enthusiasm, to return, to
keep up a friendship so auspiciously begun, to
hear more of those wonderful stories about the
theatre with which his new friend had delighted
him. With what smiles and shaking of hands,
and promises to come back he got himself away !
stumbling a little in the darkness, as he came
downstairs, getting out into the night with
that sensation of lightness and Swimming in his
head, with that elation in his mind which was
indescribable, which had come he could not tell
how. The air from the river blew in his face
again as he came out, and he paused a little

to consider, to retrace his steps ia his own
mind, and think out the best route. His conclusion
was that he must get back to the
Strand, and follow the road which had brought
him here as well as ho could, hoping to recognise
the different places he had passed, and
the bridge by which he had crossed the river.
The Strand was as tumultuous as ever, but he
paid much less attention to it. He had passed
that first and ordinary stage. The streets ! He
felt that he knew now a little more about London
life than was contained in the streets. He no
longer allowed himself to be pushed hither
and thither by the throng, but elbowed his
way in the boldest manner, like a person, he
hoped, to the manner born, with that delightful
sensation of manhood and experience and satisfaction
With himself It was as if he had wings
to his head, like a classical personage. It seemed
to soar, and float, and carry him along. He
could not help feeling that he had made a fine
iUhiit in life, and jumped over a great many
preliminaries. He was already ' in the swing,'
he felt. To be sure, his new friends were poor :
but that was a mere chance, and they might

be rich again tomorrow. Montressor was
not only a capital fellow, he was, by his own
showing, a man of genius ; and what a thing
to leap in a moment, on his first step in London,
into the intimacy of such a man ! Of com-se
he was a Bohemian, but everybody knew that
Bohemians were the most amusing class; that
all artists belonged more or less to it ; that it
was sausages and porter one night with them,
and the next truffles and champagne.

Notwithstanding the pleasurable sensations
with which John set out on his walk, it was no
small business to get home. Nothing could be
more confusing than the streets, the corners
which he seemed to recognise, and then felt
that he had mistaken, the curious windings of
the way, the impossibility of distinguishing one
from another. He seemed to himself to have
been walking for hours, much hustled and
knocked about, but serenely indifferent in his
happy state of mind, when he became aware
of the great mass of the Houses of Parliament
rising against the sky of night, which now was
full of stars and soft clearness ; and the bridge
leading away from all the noise and crowding

into darkness and quiet. He scarcely paused
this time to look at the carriages coming and
going, but passed by with a pleasant consciousness
that there were other centres of existence
almost as important as that of Parliament. He
knew nothing really about Parliament, beyond
what everybody knew, beyond what was in the
papers every morning : but his head was buzzing
with anecdotes of the great people of the
drama, the ' stars ' whom Montressor knew, and
among whom he had figured, and hoped to
figure again. The names of these distinguished
persons rustled confusedly through the boy's
brain. He almost felt that he had been supping
with them, hearing all their wit. What
a fine thing to have come so near that brilliant
sphere on his very first night in town ! And
Montressor had promised him tickets for the
first night on which he should himself assume
the leading place to which he had been accustomed.


A box, me dear young gentleman, to which
you can take the ladies of your family,' that
high-minded individual had said ; ' for ye will
never see the name of Montressor in any playbill

where the performance is not fit for a
refined female's eyes.'

John found this phrase delicious as it came
back to his mind  ' a refined female.' It was
like ' Pride and Prejudice,' he said to himself.
But at that moment he came in sight of the
great hospital looming up against the skj, and
its shadow came upon him like  like what ? 
like the shadow of death, he would have said
in a graver mood, like a wet blanket, he said in
his levity. But even the levity sank when he
perceived that the lights were very faint in the
great building, and that along the row of little
houses opposite, so far as he could see, there
was but one point of light, and that a very
feeble one. Then, for the first time, John began
to think that this new and delightful experience
of his might have a very different aspect from
another point of view. All was very still in
the little street. If he had to knock to rouse
the landlady, the echo would carry, he thought,
ever so far, would penetrate the big walls
opposite and wake the sick people, and disturb
one stern sleeper. How should he explain himself?
The first night! that which made the

experience so delightful, made it also rather
dreadful from the other side : for how could he
make it clear to her that it was the first time
he had ever essayed the adventures of the
streets? His heart failed him as he drew
near the house, and indeed he was not quite
clear about the house, among so many others
exactly the same.

His steps as he came along made a noise
upon the pavement which frightened him. He
thought confusedly of the steps stumbling
along the street in the village when the public-house
closed, and how the old people, if by
chance they were up so late, would shake their
heads. He seemed to hear the stumble, the
little interval of dulled sound when those late
passengers took the softer path along the garden
wall ; then the sudden access of noise,
when they arrived, with a swerve and lurch,
upon the bit of pavement. Good heavens !
Might people inside these houses hear his steps
and think the same ? for it seemed to him that
he, too, stumbled and swerved and scraped
along the pavement. This, however, was buta
momentary chill ; he said to himself what did

it matter ? he was all right ; there was nothing
to be said against him ; and, with an attempt to
call up the elation of mind which had nearly
worn out, and a step which was jaunty
in attempted carelessness, he went on. The
jauntiness, however, was a little marred by the
necessity of examining the houses to see which
was his own. They were so horribly like each
other ! John did not know how to make sure
which was the right one in the imperfect shining
of the few lamps, and under the shadow of
the hospital. He went past the lighted window,
and then returned again. Some one, he
thought, was looking out at the edge of the
blind ; but then no one could be looking out for
him.

A door opened softly while he was trying to
find something by which he could recognise the
house, and then a voice, more soft still,
whispered,

John John Sandford ? Is it John V

He turned back with a thrill of mingled
alarm and relief, and at the same time a quick
start of contradiction.

*I'm John  John May,' he replied, with

a sudden confused impulse.  Is this the
house?'

Oh, come in. Oh, come in ! You don't
know me ? I'm Susie. Oh, John, John, where
have you been ? I have been waiting for you
for hours. Oh, John!' She had pulled him
into the little parlour where one candle was
burning, and looked at him strangely, with a
look of terror and distress. She threw her
arms round his neck, then drew back without
kissing him, and cried again, in a tone of reproach,
' Oh, John, John !'

What is it !' he said. ' Are you Susie ?
What is it ? I went out for a walk. I did not
know anyone was coming to-night.'

She stood looking at him fixedly. He had
taken off his hat, and the plastered cut, which
Mrs. Montressor said would not show, showed,
alas ! painfully upon his forehead, though half
covered by the ruffled hair, which by half concealing
made it appear greater than it was.
He caught sight of himself at the same time in
the little glass over the mantelpiece. He was
very pale, his hair very much ruffled by the
wind, his shirt a little disordered in the dressing

of his "wound, his coat imperfectly brushed
by the Montressors, showing still some signs of
a fall  and in his eyes a sort of wildness which
he himself saw, but did not understand.

What is the matter with you, Susie  if it is
Susie. Why do you look at me so? What
have I done ? I lost my way, and I am dreadfully
tired,' he added, sitting down, suddenly
falling into despondency as great and causeless
as his elation had been before.

Where have you been ? You have been ina
 row, or something. Oh, John, John! I
came rushing, so glad, so glad to see my brother.
Oh, I've looked for you so long ! and to find you
Uke this, like this, at last !' and she covered her
eyes with her hands.

Like what V he said, feeling his lips stammer
in spite of himself, his voice thick. 'I don't
know what you mean.'

She uncovered her eyes and gave him a look
such a look  of love and pity, and horror and
dismay.

Oh, John,' she said, ' oh, John !' as if all
reproach and all tenderness, and everything
that the heart could say of blame and forgive-vol.

II. E

ness and heavenly pity, were in that utterance
of his name.

He knew nothing of that which put meaning
and misery into her cry. No one had ever
warned him, no one had enlightened him, the
facts were all unknown, yet something of the
feeling in her suddenly stricken and aching
consciousness came into his.

I don't know what you mean,' he said again.
You think I've been doing something wrong.
It isn't true. It's very, very strange, to have to
defend myself the first time I see you  the very
first night '

Yes,' she said, with an echo in her voice,
which made the words seem like the very climax
of despair, * the first night I'

She has put you against me,' said John.

She !  you mean Oh,' cried Susie, turning
upon him in sudden indignation, ' you may
think you are taking his part, calling yourself
by that name, putting yourself against us ; but
he never, never did that. He knew all along,
and always acknowledged  always acknowledged
'

It was John's turn now to question. He
asked :

Who do you mean by he T in a hurried,
choked voice.

Then Susie came suddenly to herself.

We have enough to think of without going
back to old, unhappy things,' she said. ' Oh I
John, I've had such hopes of you. I've thought
you were to make up for everything. We've
never gone near you to disturb you in your Hfe.
Mother said it was better so  to leave you with
the old people, where all was so good and quiet,
and harm was not known  that was what she
said. Oh, how often we've talked of you, John ;
and when she told me you would not have her
for your mother, she said there was nothing
else to be expected, and that it did not matter
so long as you escaped the curse, so long as you
were kept good  so long And now !'

The curse V said John, awed, confused,
overcome. Things began to come to his mind
dimly, vaguely, turning to perhaps another point
of view.

And now I suppose this is the very first time

e2

Library

diversity Of tlUWOt*

you have ever been free,' said Susie, in a tone
of despair, wringing her hands. * The first night
in London  where you came with your heart
full of grief, and no evil thoughts  Oh, none I
mother said so. But the very first time you go
out, the first time you have the chance, the first

night  oh, it is cruel, cruel ! the first night

Oh, John, John, John !'

'What have 1 done

There was no elation about him now. His
serenity of soul was gone, and all the floating
visions of pleasure, and assurance that this
was life. He half understood what she must
mean, because he felt what a difference had
taken place in him, and how ridiculous his
thoughts of half-an-hour ago began to appear.

You come in late,' she said, ' very late. You
have a cut in your forehead ; you have mud on
your coat and your knees. You've fallen somewhere,
and been hurt. You come in quite jaunty
and gay, and then, before I have said anything
almost, you sink down and don't know what ta
say.'

Almost r he said, with a scornful intonation
almost nothing meant everything that could

be said or hinted, it seemed to John. He had
never known before what domestic altercation
or fault-finding was. It was the strangest
novelty in his life. The old people, perhaps,
would have been anxious too. They would
have asked him all about it  they would not
have liked him being so late. But how different
their indulgent waiting for his explanation, from
this sudden indictment, so full of implications
which he did not understand. The Houses of
Parliament, and the bustle of the Strand, and
Montressor T\-ith his stories, might be new, but
this was newer, still more strange to him. And
yet she was so unhappy that John could not
resent it. He had gradually come back to
himself, to the boy who had never been miss
judged, of whom nobody had ever suggested
harm. His good sense returned with his recollection.
After all, he had done nothing to
be ashamed of. He thought of the steaming
hot drink which had made him evince and cough,
and then had made him feel so much at his
ease, so full of self-appreciation. If that was
wrong, then it was all that was wrong.

He collected his faculties while he sat thus

silent, looking at his sister, the sister of whole
had always thought so tenderly, but to whom
now it seemed he had brought such cruel disappointment.
How was it? The accusation
seemed to him so false and unreasonable that
he could not understand how it could be maintained.
And he was not angry ; this gave him
an immense advantage, he thought  not angry
but only astonished more than words could say.
And then he told her the whole story from
the beginning to the end, with a tone of apology
which surprised himself, but which did not convince
her, he saw. And yet there was nothing
to apologise for. It was a good thing, not a
bad, he had done. He had saved the child : if
perhaps Montressor had made too much of it,
still it was not a bad action to throw one's self
into the middle of the street to pick out a little
unknown child from under the horses' hoofs.
He had no reason to be ashamed of it. He felt
his breast swell a little with involuntary self-approval
as he went on. No, there was nothing
to be ashamed of. The cut on his forehead
began to hurt him a little as he talked of it.-
He had not taken time to think of it before-but

now, when he did think of it, it hurt, and
he felt a little pride in the consciousness. And
then there were the Montressors. Well, he did
not know anything about them, to be sure, but
they had been very grateful to him, and he had
felt shaken, not very able to walk, confused in
his head.

You should have taken a hansom and come
home,' said Susie. ' You might have known
we should be anxious. If you had done that,
all would have been well.'

And she shook her head at the story of the
Montressors, listening in silence to all he said.
John heard his voice grow more and more apologetic,
though he did not mean it. They were
kind people, they had been very good to him ;
why should he apologise for them? But yet his
voice took this tone. Ashen he had done, there was
a silence, a silence which was full of disapproval.
Susie sat with her head on her hand. She said
nothing, she did not even look at him. The
pain of his first alarm was over, but her mind
was not satisfied. After a while she rose, and,
going up to him, put an arm round him.

Promise me,' she said, * dear John ! Oh,

Johnnie, Johnnie, my little brother that I have
always longed for ! Promise me it shall not
happen again.'

What shall not happen again V He shook
himself free of her, with an irritation which was
as new to him as all the rest. * What do you
mean 1 Promise never to pick up a child under
the horses' feet ; never to make acquaintance

with anyone that is kind ; never to What

do you mean V

Oh, dear, dear boy, what shall I say ? Don't
you know what I mean ? John, it's that we're
frightened for, mother and I ; it brings everything
that's bad with it. It is destruction. Oh,
it is nothing to-night, 1 know ; it may be quite
innocent to-night : but it's never innocent, for
it's the bringing of all harm. John, it was that
which brought all our trouble upon us : and you
should be more careful than anyone, for you've
got it in your veins.'

'What?' he cried, almost with violence, in
the exasperation of his soul.

But she made no reply. She gave him a look
that was full of meaning, if he could have read
it, and, stooping over him, kissed him on the

forehead. Then-with a sigh, left that painful
subject, whatever it might be, and proceeded
to occupy herself with the little details of his
rooms and his comfort.

You have never unpacked your things,' she
said. ' Give me your keys, and I will do what
I can, though it is too late to do much to-night.
If you had stayed in, and unpacked your things,
then we should have had such a pleasant evening
together. I came over as soon as I could
get away, and, oh ! how disappointed I was
to find you gone. But never mind. You did
not think of th:ct  how should you ? Perhaps
you had forgotten Susie altogether, you were so
little when you went away.'

Why was I sent away 1 It would have been
better, far better never to have parted,' said
John ; and then he added, ' I never forgot you,
Susie. 1 think you haven't changed much. I
remember you all this time. You stood at the
door and cried when I went away.'

'And many, many a time after,' she said,
looking up, with tears in her eyes. * Oh, many
a time ; I missed you so. Oh, Johnnie, perhaps
you are right. We should have known all the

things to guard against, while grandfather and
grandmother '

No,' said John. * I am wrong ; it would not
have been better. They were happier to have
me. I ara glad they had a child till their death
to love them, not one like Emily, but me '

He stood up, looking not like the boy she
thought him, but like a young, indignant angel,
with his head raised and his nostrils quivering.
Susan took the woman's part. She began to
wonder at and admire him, and to feel herself in
the wrong, as indeed she was.

CHAPTER IV.

ON HIS TRIAL.

You were late last night, Susie.'

Yes, mother, very late. I was dth John.'

I know you were with John. And I have
no doubt you had a great deal to say to lira.
So far as I know him, he would not have much
to say to you.'

Indeed, it was the other way,' said Susie.
It was he who talked. He said he remembered
me perfectly well, and that I was not at aU
changed.'

Mrs. Sandford raised her eyes to her daughter,
interrupting her work for a moment. She had
a great deal of work. To be matron of a great
hospital is no easy thing, and there were arrears
besides to make up. She had been at work
half the night, and had not heard at what hour

Susie had stolen in. Now she looked up with
an expression which made her stern face for a
moment gentle.

It is true,' she said ; ' you have not changed.
I think better of him for perceiving that.'

You must think well of him, mother. He is
a good, kind boy. He had an accident last
night saving a child. It was nearly killed under
a carriage, and he rushed in and saved it. But
he did not escape scot-free. He has got a cut
on his head, but it is not much. I looked at it ;
you need not be anxious.'

This Susie repeated very quickly, like a lesion,
hurrying the sentences upon each other,
lest her mother should interrupt her before all
was said.

*An accident  a cut on the face  but not
anything much. Susie, what are you telling
me  already ? He went out, then, last night V

Yes, he went out. Why shouldn't he ? He's
,so young, and his first night in London. It isn't
at all exciting to us ; but think what it would
be to a boy who had never been here before.'

You are accusing him before I attack him,
Susie. The first night ! I didn't even think

of Tearing him not to go out. I thought him
all safe the first night. Oh me, oh me, has it
begun already V  what I've trembled for all his
life !'

 No, no," cried Susie with her anxious voice.
*rm sure it's not that. He went out, to be
sure. Fancy, at his age, to be in London, and
without anyone to talk to, and not to go out.
The parents of the child were very good to him,
and had his head plastered up. It was very
well done too,' said Susie, with professional
approbation. * For my part, I was quite happy
to hear that he had saved the child.'

Mrs. Sandford shook her head. She turned
back to her books again; then pushed them
aside, and put up her hands to her head.

Oh ! Susie,' she cried, * I knew how it would
be. He is your father aU over. All his ways
are his ways. I thought he was safe down in
the quiet country with the old people. If they
had lived, 1 should never have wished him to
know anything of you or me. What can we do
for him ? We can't even have him in the house
with us. Oh, how foolish I was to bring him to
London ! I might have paid some one down

there to take care of him  to keep him out of
evil;

Mother, you know that could not be. Don't
you remember how many talks we used to have
about it ? Yon can't keep a boy of his age so.
He is almost a man ; and, mother, he looks like
a man sometimes : when he rose up in indignation
against me, because I  because I '

'You thought so too? Don't conceal it from
me, Susie. You saw him come in  with all this
story about an accident  the very first night. I
knew it was in him, his father's son : and my
poor father and mother with all their innocent
tales about him ; how good he was ; never a
suspicion, not a weakness of any kind. Oh, why
did they die ? Why did I bring him away from
the country ? And why, why is it permitted
that this poison should come into a young boy's
veins, from a father he scarcely knew !'

 Oh, mother, wait till you see ; don't condemn
him unheard.'

Condemn him ! Would I condemn him? My
heart bleeds for him, Susie ; but I see all the
tortures that are in store for us : and for him
it would have been better if he never had

been born. For what can we do for him, you
andir

Oh, mother, it is not so bad as that ; it may
never be so bad !' Susie said, with tears.

Mrs. Sandford shook her head. She drew to
her the books with which she had been busy,
and resumed her work. After all, whatever
happened, that had to be done. There was nothing
in the world except work, in which there
was any satisfaction. This was the conclusion
she had come to long ago. It was morning, a
little before the time when John was to have his
audience, and this was how it was prepared.
The table was covered with books, reports, accounts,
all the records of her occupation, which
had fallen into arrears during that forced leave
she had been obliged to apply for, to bury her
father. The room was very lofty for its size,
somewhat barely furnished, with enormous windows
and the fullest blaze of daylight, not a
line or a corner of shadow anywhere. It was
fitted with great cupboards full of stores  and
constant use, constant business, was visible in
every arrangement. There was nothing for
grace or ornament, and not much for comfort 

a place not so much to live in as to work in ; but
this was suitable to a life which was all work.
When she resumed her examination of the books,
Susie withdrew to a corner, where there was a
little table and needlework, her own little place
in this chamber and temple of labour. It was
not pretty work with which she was occupied.
She was making flannel bandages or belts, hemming
down the rough edges, rolling them neatly
up, ready for use. Susie had grown up in this
atmosphere, and knew no other. She had gone
through all a nurse's training, though she had
not taken up that profession. When a more
tender hand than ordinary was wanted where all
were tender, she was called to help. She was
always at hand when the strength of the nursing
sister was overtaxed. But still she had her own
little separate place as the matron's daughter, a
sort of lay element where all were professional.
She wore a sort of modified version of their
severe black and white dress. Susie's dress was
black too, with white collar and cuffs, but these
had sometimes a line of ornament, and she wore
a ribbon at her throat, a locket, a bracelet,
a few slight marks that she was not under

the rule. She was twenty-two, very modest
and quiet sometimes looking older than her
age, yet sometimes also looking infantine in the
fulness of a life that knew no distractions,
nothing but the hospital, the service of others.
She was not strictly pretty. Her hair was
brown, her eyes brown like most people's, her
complexion generally pale, with a Httle colour
coming and going, nothing in her to be remarked
at the first glance, no beauty  but to those
who knew her a certain charm, tranquil and
pure, the beauty of a spirit absolutely free from
any pre-occupations of its own. There are
very few people in the world of whom so much
can be said, and perhaps their perfection in this
moral way means a deficiency in some others, a
want of imagination, even a defective vitality :
but the human race is not likely to err so, and
the occasional examples to be met with in the
world are always wonderful, to those who can
believe in them. Susie, as was natural, was
very imperfectly known by those about her.
She was, everybody allowed, very good, but
how far her goodness went beyond the surface,
or whether it was not partially seeming, or if
VOL. II. F

there might not be a certain sense of self-interest
in being so good (for to be sure, in the
atmosphere in which she had been brought up,
goodness is the best policy), was a point sometimes
discussed in the hospital, where, as in
other places, it was a little difficult to realise
that heavenly form of character. People
thought, even when they had no doubt of her,
that so much goodness was uninteresting, and
that they would have liked her better with a
few more faults, which probably was quite true.
But Susie's tranquil spirit was in much
commotion this morning. She had slept little
all night, and thought much. Susie was well
aware of the tragedy of the family life. There
were no secrets in it from her. And she had
been brought up in the belief that the cloud of
hereditary evil was so strong upon her brother,
that to keep him in ignorance  to keep him if
possible at a distance, where he could never
know anything of the antecedents of his family
was the best thing for him. It did not occur
to her that she herself was her father's daughter,
as much as John was his son, and that, if
the hereditary principle was true, she ought to

have shared her brother's danger. This view
of the subject was dismissed by the fact that
she was a girl, and therefore her mother's child,
an opinion very fallacious, and not to be maintained
for a moment, either by logic, reason, or
experience. But, in spite of all these qualifying
things, a foregone conclusion will always hold
its place. She, it was felt, was in no danger,
though she knew everything; but John, the
boy I For him it was expedient that all precautions
should be taken, with him there was a
kind of miserable certainty that safeguards
would fail.

This was the persuasion in which she had
been brought up. And it is impossible to
tell what hoiTor and misery the girl had gone
through, waiting for her young brother's return
on his first night in London. She had been
waiting a long time, and she had gone over in
her own mind all the dismal expectations which
an anxious woman, bitterly acquainted with
one form of dissipation, can turn over in the
dreadful suspense of a long evening spent in
watching for the return of one who comes not,
and whose absence can be accounted for only

by some catastrophe. A world of old recollections
had come rolling up before her distracted
eyes. She had seen him reeling along the
street, stumbling in, with wild eyes and a stammering
voice, with all the miserable signs upon
him of that vice which, in its beginnings at
least, is no sin, means no harm, and yet is the
most degrading and destructive of all vices.
No words can tell the tortures which a woman
goes through, to whom such vigils are habitual.
They were perhaps even more terrible now by
being purely imaginary. For fact, however
frightful, brings into action all the subtle forces
of mercy, the attempts to account for and
excuse, the natural yearnings of the heart over
the sinner : whereas in imagination there is no
alleviation, and the first fall carries with it a
tragic prophecy of utter destruction. When
John had appeared, with his paleness, with the
lingering traces of that exhilaration which
Montressor's drink had left still in his eyes, and
with the cut showing under his disordered
hair, Susie had felt for a moment as if all were
over, and the tragic conclusion, so long foreseen,
coming to pass before her eyes.

But, presently, that subduing presence of
reality began to tell upon her, and though it
was hard to shake off the sway of the anticipated,
and hard to realise that the story of the
supposed sinner was not a gloss of excuse, yet
by-and-by her mind had changed. She had not
been quite convinced up to the moment of
quitting him ; for Montressor's drink had left a
fatal odour, and there was a certain excitement
in the boy's manner and address : but as she lay
on her bed, in the dark, aod went over and over
everything that had passed, Susie's attitude
changed. 1 will not assert that the foreseen
and expected were so far vanquished in her,
that she had a calm and steady belief in her
brother. Not that ; but a passionate partisanship
sprang up in her mind. Another conclusion
rose up and did battle with the first. It
had seemed miserably certain that he would err
before, it seemed impossible but that he must
overcome now. She went over every fact of
the previous night, and explained it away to
herself as she lay gazing at the dawning light.
She made up by degrees a picture in every way
favourable  an ideal figure, an image full of

generosity, tenderness, and help. She seemed
to see him flinging himself, a heroic young
deliverer, among the crowding carriages ; probably
they had poured a little brandy down his
throat to bring him to himself (for Susie had
not advanced far enough in the new way to
understand how in all innocence, though quite
voluntarily and cheerfully, John might have
swallowed Montressor's potion), and then what
so natural as that, a stranger, he had lost his
way  He did not know that she or anyone was
waiting for him, or that he should find a friendly
voice, anyone with whom he could exchange a
word when he got back. Why should he have
hastened back? There was no reason for it.
And to think that on his first evening in London
he had saved a life ! If the excitement of it
brought a little tremor upon him, who could
wonder? Had she seen it only, what with
alarm and pride, and happiness and delight,
Susie felt that she would have trembled for
hours. He would not have been human if he
had not felt it. And the brandy must have
been given to bring him to himself. He was not
aware, how should he be, of the degrading

suspicions in her mind, and so did not explain
that. But no doubt that was how it was. She
rose up in the morning, having slept very little,
still thrilling with the anxiety, the relief, and the
pain  John's partisan and advocate. She would
have been so more or less, in any circumstances.
She was so with her whole heart now.

John came in shortly after, a little later than
the appointed hour. He came with a sense that
he was on his defence, or at least was on the
defensive, an almost more oppressive sensation :
for except that he was distrusted, and all his
doings regarded with an unfavourable eye, he
did not know any more, neither what form the
doubts and suspicions took, nor what reason
there was in them. He came reluctantly, with
nothing of the feeling with which a youth of his
age, conscious of no wrong, should go to his
mother ; no trust in her kindness, no confidence
that she would see anything which concerned
him in a good light. And the very place, the
great institution, which chilled and disheartened
him with its atmosphere of professional business,
added to this intuitive reluctance. It was the
home of Christian charity and kindness ; it was

the place in which devoted men and women
gave up their lives to the solace of the suffering,
to save lives and alleviate pain. Many a poor
creature had found ease and succour and the
tenderest help in it. But yet to John it was
cold, sending a chill to his very heart ; the great
space, the stony stairs and passages, the universal
pre-occupation were all so destructive to the
idea of anything that could be called a home.
People might live there no doubt, did live there
when they were compelled by illness, or by
duty for the help of those who were ill, but
to divell inter that vast roof which covered so
much suffering, how was that possible ? And
She had no other home, and this was the only
place in the world to which he had any natural
right to come.

Home in a hospital ! to him who had known
what a natural home was, a place you live in with
yourown,possessingit to yourself, a secure shelter
and refuge, what a chilly public place it was ! He
followed the porter of the hospital, who guided
him up the bare stairs and pointed out the way to
the matron's rooms at the end of the long, lofty
bare corridor, with a heart full of reluctance and

disagreeable anticipations. He felt sure of being
disapproved of, though he did not know what
he had done that was wrong, and great discouragement
and despondency, and a sense of
injustice and an impulse of resistance filled his
mind. It was not like a son going to his mother's
room, or a youth without a home to the centre
of domestic warmth and protection, but Hke a
clerk, or official messenger on business, that he
knocked at the door pointed out to him. He
was told to * Come in ' just as the messenger on
business might have been told, and went in, and
lingered for a moment by the door, struck by
the strange impressiveness of the place ; the
great stream of unshadowed daylight, the height
of the walls, too high for decoration, the furniture
no more than necessity required, the large
writing-table in the middle of the room, laden
with books and papers. Mrs. Sandford, after
her conversation with Susie, which had agitated
her in spite of herself, had returned again to her
work with more than ordinary absorption in it,
and put up her hand to warn the new-comer
against interrupting her in the midst of a calculation.
John's heart burned within him at this

strange welcome. He stood for a moment undecided.
It occurred to him, with a flash of
resolution, that he would turn and go, cutting
this bond, which was one of mere conventional
connection, and, rushing forth, make his way ashe
could alone in the world.

He was stopped in this sudden gleam of half-formed
intention by a soft touch upon his arm,
and a still softer touch on his cheek, and found
Susie standing by him, whom he had not seen
on coming in, looking at him with a tender
interest and pride.

I did not see you right, last night,' she said,
Johnnie dear. There was no light. Let me
look at you now.'

There is not very much to see, Susie.'

Oh, there is a great deal to see : my little
brother that I have never stopped thinking of
all my life  and just like what I thought ; but
you are not my little brother now. Mother,
here is John.'

Mrs. Sandford laid down her pen and held
out her hand.

If I had lost the thread of that account, I
should never have found it again,' she said. * My

work is in such an-ear. How are you this morning,
John ? Let us see this place on your forehead.'

It is nothing,' he said, with a flush of colour.

I must see that for myself,' she said, rising
up, and taking his head in her hands. Other
feelings came into John's heart as he felt those
hands, with their skilful touch, putting aside his
hair, examining his wound. She let him go ina
few moments, vith a slight pat which was
almost a caress. It was what she would have
done to any young patient, but this he did not
know. ' It is, as Susie said, nothing to be uneasy
about. If it does not heal in a day or two, we
must get Mr. Denton or Mr. Melville to look at
it. But I think it will heal of itself. It would
have been more prudent, John, to remain at
home instead of seeking adventures in the streets
the first night.'

It didn't look much like home,' he said.

Xo ; but it would, if you had waited for
Susie. She is very like home even here. We
cannot make a home for you, unhappily. The
only thing for it, failing that, is to find you something
to do.'

That is what I desire most,' he said. She

had seated herself again, returning to her books,
and was looking at him with the air of one who
has but a short time to spare for any other interest.
Her eyes glanced from him to the long
lines of figures she had before her.  Couldn't I
do some of that for you?' said John, with a
sudden impulse.

Mrs. Sandford started, and looked at him with
astonished eyes.

 My work?' she said, ' do you think you could
do my work?'

If it is only adding up figures, surely,' said
John.

This time she let her eyes dwell on him a
little longer, with a momentary smile, but more
of wonder at his audacity than pleasure.

That was well meant,' she said ; ' it was well
meant. Susie, I think you can be spared today.
You might go out with him, and show
him something. It is natural that he should
want to see something : and I shall have more
time this evening to tell him what I have settled.
I have heard of an engineer's in which
you can begin work. But you must take a
holiday to-day. Susie will get her hat, and be

ready at once. You will like that I suppose?'

Yes,' he said.

Susie withdrew quickly, her face brightening,
and John stood, watching his mother, who let
her eye wander over her figures, then recovered
herself with a glance towards him, in which he
could read impatience restrained, and a desire
that he should be gone. It was this, perhaps,
that inspired him with the question, which a moment
before he had never dreamed of putting
to her.

Will you tell me,' he said, ' whether there
was ever a Mr. Montressor who was a friend
of my father's V He asked this without knowing
why.

She started, and the pen fell out of her hand.
If it were possible to change from her natural
paleness, he would have said she grew more
pale. Against the merciless shining of the
great window he could see her tremble, or at
least so he thought. She did not say anything
for a moment, and when she spoke her voice
was somehow different.

I did not she said, ' know all your father's
friends; but it is a long time since all ended iu

that way. What do you know of any such
friends V

It is an uncommon name said John.

Yes, it is an uncommon name. It is the
sort of name that actors assume, and people of
that kind. Ah, here is Susie, ready. Take your
brother wherever you think he will like best to
go. Don't hurry. I shall not be anxious, as
long as you are here in time for tea.' She had
risen with a sort of uneasy smile, and went
with them to the door, touching Susie's dress
with her hand, smoothing down the little jacket
she wore. When Susie had preceded her brother
out of the room, Mrs. Sandford transferred her
touch, nervously, quickly, to John's arm. * Such
people are no friends for you,' she said, hastily.
Avoid them wherever you meet them. Avoid
them ! they are not friends for you.'

She had made no acknowledgment, and yet
she had made more than an acknowledgment.
The self-betrayal was instantaneous, but it was
complete. Then it was his father of whom
Montressor would not speak. Poor May ! What
had happened that he should be called Poor
May!

CHAPTER V.

BROTHER AND SISTER.

Susie knew her way about, and where to go
and what to see. She was not disturbed by the
noise and clangour of what she called ' The
Underground a mode of conveyance which at
first bewildered the country boy, to whom the
clash of train after train, the noise, the complication,
the crowds pouring this way and that
took away all understanding, and who felt himself
a child in the hands of his sister, who
knew exactly when the right train which she
wanted was coming, and all about it, and steered
him in her deft London way through the
tumult.

'How can you tell which is which?' John
cried, feeling the dust in his throat, the din in
his ears, and his eyes growing red and hot with

the flutter of the crowd, and of all the sights
that flashed past him, and the smoke and suffocating
atmosphere.

Oh, I can't tell. I only know,' said Susie.

she was at her ease in the midst of the commotion,
looking as calm and as modest and composed
as if she were walking in country lanes,
not afraid of the thronged stations of the Metropolitan,
the dingy platforms, the confusion of
porters shouting, and doors clanging. John
had meant to take care of his sister, but it was he
who clung to her in the midst of the bewilderment
and the noise. She knew" which train to
take, she knew when to change into another,
where to stop ; though to him they bore no distinction,
neither the stations, the names of
which he could never discover, nor the directions
for as yet, John was not even aware which
was north or south, east or west.

Under Susie's guidance, however, he saw and
learnt a great deal in that first wonderful day.
She took him from the Tower, to St. Paul's, and
then to the Abbey, to the Houses of Parliament
to the parks  as she was used to do with
strangers, with convalescent patients sometimes.

but that more gently  and Tvith their relations
and friends who would come up from the
country to see somebody in the hospital, and
then contemplate longingly the unknown world
around them, till Susie, always kind, took pity
on their ignorance. By this means she had been
trained in the duties of cicerone, and was extremely
efficient, knowing just enough and not
too much : Which is best  for a guide too
erudite is a confusion to the simple mind.

She took her brother, in the middle of the day,
to a modest place on the outskirts of the city,
which she knew by this kind of excursion, to give
him something to eat, and there pointed out to
him what he found as interesting as anything  the
young men and middle-aged men of all classes
in pursuit of luncheon, crowding every kind of
hotel and eating-house. It gave John altogether
a new view of that busy life, where there is no
time to go home for meals, but where everyone
has comfortable means of being fed with no
makeshifts or picnic arrangements, but a whole
population toiling to supply the brief necessary
repast. This, with all its immense supply and
demand, and the sight of the men about the

VOL. II. G

streets, plunging into, and being swallowed up
in the high buildings which have replaced, in
so many cases magnificently, the old shabby
offices and chambers in which London laboured
and grew rich, was as exciting to John, or perhaps
more so, if the truth must be told, than the
historical places to which Susie guided him. He
was overawed by St. Paul's, where he stood
sunder the great dome, and heard the waves, so
to speak, of the great sea of London dashing
outside with a rhythmic force : and the venerable
Abbey with all its records went to his
heart. But for a youth of his day, standing
eagerly upon the verge of life and longing to
take part himself in all that was going on, the
flood and pressure of men steadily pushing their
way along the streets, all with some object or
pursuit, pressing in crowds to snatch their hasty
meal, pouring back again into every kind of
office, in every possible capacity, that was to
him the most interesting of all. Should he himself
be like that in a day or two ? Full of business,
full of work, his mind all engaged with
something outside of himself, no time to inquire
into his own history, or discuss his relationships.

or make himself wretched, perhaps, about things
that might turn out of so Httle importance. This
was the thought that took entire possession of
his mind, as he went on.

*Do you think you'll like it, John V
 I don't know if I'll like it. That's not what
one wants to know  one wants to know how
one is to get on.'

I should think,' said Susie, hesitating a little,
1 should think  that you are sure to get on, if
you try.'

It shan't be for the want of trying,' said John.
Oh,' cried Susie,  that is the thing we'll think
of most  that you should try, John. If you try
your very best, and don't succeed, it's not your
fault. That is what mother will think of, and I,
too.'

But I mean to succeed,' said John. Many
have said it before him, and yet failed miserably.
Yet each new aspirant means to win,
and is as certain of his power to do so as those
that went before. John's purpose shone in his
eyes, and his certainty communicated itself to
his sister. She put her hand through his arm,
giving him an affectionate pressure.

g2

And oh, how I wish and pray you may I and
believe it, too. Oh, John, with all my heart !
That will do more for mother to heal her
wounds than anything else in the world.'

Do more for mother ! That was not what he
was thinking of. He drew his arm away, perhaps
somewhat coldly. The mother, who was
Emily, had but few claims upon him. If Susie
had said it for herself, if Elle had said it, that
would have been a motive. He did not feel
inspired by the one presented to him now. And
there was a pause between them, and Susie saw
that she had made a mistake, and that this was
not the spell. They went on for some time after
very soberly, without any question on John's
part or offer of information on the part of Susie,
in a sort of heavy, dispirited way. At last she
pressed his arm again, and said,

Oh, John, I wish you would have more feeling
about mother. If you only knew what a
life she has had, what a hard life ! I can't do
much, one way or another. I can only stand
by her, and do what I can to please her ; but
you, you are different. You can do so much.
Oh, John !'

It is of no use. She does not believe that I
will ever be good for anything ; sometimes I
think she  dislikes me, Susie.'

Oh, John, how can you say so, her own son,
her only son ! She has always thought of you,
always ; that I know.'

How has she thought of me ? That 1 am
sure to go wrong ? I know,' said John, with a
sudden inspiration, * that is what she expects,
that I must go wrong. She is always waiting
to see me do it. I don't know why, but I am
sure it has always been in her mind.'

She didn't know you, John,' said Susie,
eagerly, not seeing that she assented to his
suggestion, 'how could she know you? We
had never seen you since you were a child ; and
if she thought '

Why has she never seen me since I was a
child ?' the boy asked, sternly. ' Why is it I
didn't know you, Susie, my only sister, till now T

Oh, as for that,' said she, pressing his arm,
*that didn't matter, did it? You and I would
always understand each other. It is only to say
that you are John and I am Susie. We didn't
want any more.'

If sister and brother do that, shouldn't
mother and son do it?' said John; * and we
don't, you see. She expects everything that is
bad of me, and I think everything that is '

No,' she cried, * don't say that ; oh, John
don't say that. It is all that you don't know
her. Wait a little, only wait a little. She has
bad a great deal to bear. She has had to put
on what is almost a mask, to hide her heart
which has been so wounded ; oh, so wounded I
John, you don't know !'

Not by me,' he said. * I have never done
anything to her. But she has made up her
mind that I shall turn out badly. Don't contradict
me, Susie, for I know.'

Susie made no attempt to contradict him.
She patted his arm softly, and said, * Poor
mother, poor mother,' under her breath. John
was not ill-pleased that she should take his
mother's part  it seemed suitable that she
should do so, the thing that was becoming and
natural. He did not want her to come over to
his side. And then the mother was so wrong  so
ridiculously, fantastically wrong, that some one
to support and stand up for her was doubly

necessary. Poor mother ! who would not even
have it in her power to be glad, as the commonest
mother would be, when her son turned out
the reverse of all she had feared.

If you would only forget,' said Susie, ' this
notion you have taken into your mind, and goon
(as I know you will go on) well, and make
your way, mother will be beside herself with
joy. Oh, it will make up for everything that
is past, all 'she has had to bear ; and there is
nobody can do that but you.'

This appeal left John cold. He was thoroughly
determined to go on Avell  by nature in the
first place, for he felt no inclination for anything
else. And if Susie had implored him for her
own sake, or for Elle's sake, he would have responded
magnanimously, and promised everything
she pleased  but for his mother, for the
woman whose real name (if she only knew it)
was Emily, how could that affect him ? He
made no reply, and presently their attention
was diverted by some new thing which was
strange to the country lad, and they discoursed
on this subject no more. They had reached the
Strand, the scene of John's adventure of the

previous night, when Susie suddenly dropped
his arm very hastily, and with scarcely a word
of explanation, bidding him wait for her, took
refuge suddenly in a shop. He had not recovered
from his surprise, when he was accosted by
some one who came up with great cordiality,
holding out his hand, and in whom John, with
no small surprise, recognised his acquaintance,
the father of the child he had rescued, the man
who had been so grateful and enthusiastic in his
thanks, Montressor, who hailed him with a
heartiness that was almost noisy, shaking hands
violently and protesting his delight.

Is it really you in the flesh, me dear young
friend ? And I've found ye, then, in daylight,
and quite natural. You're not the good fairy
in the pantomime, nor yet the Red Cross Knight
as me Nelly says ye are. And none the worse ?
I'm proud to see ye, young Mr. May.'

Oh,' said John, ' it's nothing ; indeed it's nothing.
I hope she is all right, and that she has
taken no harm.'

She's taken no harum, sir ; but she's a young
creature of a highly nervous organisation, and
her mother and me, we are always anxious.

You'll come in and see me child, Mr. May, and
let her mother thank her deliverer. We talk of
nothing else, if ye'll believe me. Ye are a sort
of a little god, me young hero, to the little one,
and her gi-hateful parents, and ye'll not pass me
humble door.'

I can't come in to-day,' said John, blushing
a little, yet not without a sense that all this
applause was pleasant, ' for I'm waiting for my
sister who has gone into one of these shops. I
am glad I did not go after her, or I should not
have seen you ; but I will come another time to
see you and the Httle girl.'

'Do,' said Montressor. He was a person who
could not be called unobtrusive : his hat had a
cock upon his head, and his elbow against his
side, which called the attention of the passers-by.
His shaven face with its deep lines, and
mobile features, and even his way of standing
about, occupying much more than his
proper share of the pavement, aroused the
attention. John felt unpleasantly that the
people who passed stared, and that one or two
lingered a Httle, contemplating the old actor,
with that frank curiosity which the British

public permits itself to display. John, being
young and shy, did not like these demonstrations
; but they pleased the object of them, who
stood aside a little, and said to his young companion,
'They remember Montressor. Though
the managers consider me passe, sir, me old admirers,
those that have once flocked to see mein
my favourite parts, have not forgotten me.
The public makes up for the injustice of the
officials; me kind friends  me good friends I
This would be sweet to the heart of me faithful
partner, Mr. May.'

Yes, perhaps she would like it,' said John,
hesitating. But for himself, he could not disguise
that he shrank from the appreciation
of the passengers in the Strand. Montressor
was too much occupied by the pleasure it gave
himself, however, to observe this.

The public, Mr. May,' he said, ' is the best of
masters to the artist. As soon as ye can get
face to face with it, sir, the battle's done. It's
the officials, the managers, the middle-men,
those that live upon the artist's blood :  but a
generous public never forgets an old servant.'
He looked round upon the people who stared

and lingered, as if with the intention of addressing
his thanks to them, while poor John shrank
into himself.

I think I must bid you good-bye, sir said
the boy. * My sister is waiting for me. I'll come
and see you soon, and ask for  for the Httle gil."

Must ye go?  then I'll not detain ye. You're
right not to keep a lady waiting. Yes, come,
me young hero  with us you'll ever find a
grateful welcome. And I'll tell Nelly ye have
promised. Good-bye, and a father's blessing,
Mr. May.'

To John's surprise Susie came out to him
from the shop, whence she had seen everything
and heard something, looking very agitated
and pale.

You don't mean to say, John,' she said,
suddenly carrying him away in the opposite
direction, * that that man knows you by the
name of May V

I never said anything about it,' said John, in
his surprise, * but it is true, whoever told you.
That is the name he knows me by  and why
not, since it is my name.'

Oh, John !' cried Susie, with tears in her

eyes ; * when I told you it was for family
reasons, for property and that sort of thing!
Why will you be so perverse ? Do you think
it is a nice thing, do you think it looks honest
and true, to have two names V

Perhaps not said the lad, ' but then, let me
have my own that was mine when 1 was a little
child. Your family reasons, Susie, they were
never told to me.'

Then for mere pride you will make an end
of all mother has done and tried to do all her
life, because she couldn't explain to you, a
little boy that couldn't understand ; you'll expose
her to all sorts of trouble, and yourself 
yourself to '

The tears were in Susie's eyes. Her countenance,
so gentle and mild, was suffused with
angry colour, with indignation and impatience.

'Even that man,' she said, ' even that man, a

stranger, could Oh, John, will you go

against grandfather as well as the rest of us ?
He left you the most of what he had, and his
own good name, John Sandford, because he had
no son. Will you go against grandfather and
grandmother too V

No,' said John, after a pause, ' I never did,
and I never will. I suppose they wished it,
though they never said anything. But, Susie,
I'm no longer a child. All those circumstances
you speak of, that you have known for years
and years, surely may be told to me too?'

She shuddered a Httle and turned her face away.

I'll speak to mother,' she said, in a subdued
voice. Then, more boldly, ' But if you're to
be John Sandford, as grandfather said, yon can't
be  the other. Is it right to have two names ?
It is just the one thing that cannot be done.
It looks as if one were dishonest, untrue, to hide
one's name '

I have no reason to do that,' said John. ' If
you are sure grandfather intended it to be so ?
He never said anything to me. I always took
it for granted without inquiring. I had forgotten
the other. As for Mr. Montressor,' said
John,  I did it without thought. I had been
thinking over it a great deal on the way to London,
and when I saw him it was the st thing
that came into my head.'

*And how do you know Montressor?' Susie
asked.

Why, Susie, that is the man of last night I'

The man of last night ! the man whose

child And you gave him that other name ?

Oh!' She gave a little fluttering cry, then
paused, with a look of consternation growing
upon her face. She stopped short for a moment
in the streets in the extremity of her perplexed
and troubled sensations. Then she caught
John's arm again with a close pressure. ' Don't
see that man any more. Oh, promise me not
to see that man any more.'

Why V said John. ' He is not perhaps so
well-known as he thinks, but he is a good
fellow enough, and knows a lot. He is very
kind. You should see him with bis little girl ;
and then he was so kind to me.'

Oh, John, oh, John !' Susie cried. It had all
been so pleasant when they had set out, when
nothing but the ordinary incidents of living had
to be taken into account. But now they had
struck upon more difficult ground.

CHAPTER VI.

BEGINNING LIFE.

That day John's future career was determined
summarily, without any further consultation of
his wishes.

It was the career he had himself chosen, the
very same career about which there had been so
many consultations at home in the old times.
This was how he described to himself a period
so very little withdrawn from the present moment.
At home  he had no home now, nor
even a shadow of one. It was the profession he
had chosen ; Elle's trade ; the one they had
fixed upon in their youthful fervour as the best
for the advantage of the race, as well as for the
worthy work and fit advancement of the young
workman, who, in his way, was still to be a
Christian knight. To make lighthouses and

harbours for the safety of travellers at sea, and
roads and bridges for the advantage of those at
home  that was how the boy and girl had regarded
it, or rather the girl and boy ; for John
had taken the matter from the beginning more
soberly than Elle, taking satisfaction in the idea
of learning surveying and all the other necessary
preliminaries, even mathematics, at which
he had always been so much the best. But
when he was called to another interview in his
mother's room at the hospital, and with her pen
in her hand, suspended in the midst of the reports
she was writing, or the accounts she was
making up, Mrs. Sandford had given him the
letter which he was to take to a certain address,
and so begin work at once, John's heart rose
within him in resistance and indignation.

I have settled everything,' his mother said.
You will have nothing to do but to send up
your name and this note. Well, it is what I
understood you had set your heart upon ; isn't it
so? You want to be an engineer. So my
father said.'

'Yes, I want to be an engineer,' John
replied.

And they were sending you to a foundry in
Liverpool  which is quite a different thing 
when I interfered. You were not grateful tome,
though your gi-another also, I believe
had been very, very much against it. You
wanted to go there because I did not want you
to go. Wasn't that the reason ? You must
put away those childish ideas, John. Understand,
once for all, that it is your real good I am
seeking, and that it can be of no advantage in anyway
to retain this position of antagonism to me.'

I wish no antagonism,' said the boy. ' I think
everything is settled very quickly, very  summarily.
I think I might know a Httle. I am
nearly eighteen. I might be allowed something
to say.'

Be silent, Susie,' said Mrs. Sandford, ' there
is no reason why you should interfere. You
have been allowed a great deal to say. I have
followed your own lead altogether. I might
have put you into a merchant's office, which
would have been more in my way  but I have
adopted yours without a word. You could
scarcely point out to me the right people to
apply to, I suppose ? It is only so far as this

VOL. II. H

goes that I have acted for myself. But I don't
see that this conversation can do us any good,
John. Mr. Barrett is a great supporter of the
hospital, he is a very good man, and he is one
of the first in his profession. He will take you,
rather for my sake, it is true, than your own,
but that can't be helped at your age ; and, as he
takes you without any premium, that is so much
to your advantage. He will settle how you are
to begin and all about it when you go to him,
which I hope will be at once  to-day.'

John went away with his letter without saying
any more, and he carried out his mother's
orders, but without any pleasure in the beginning,
though as a matter of fact it was his own
choice. That she meant his good, that she was
doing the best she could for him, he believed,
though grudgingly ; but why should she do it so
hardly, without grace or kindness, without anything
that could make it pleasant ? How often
may such a question be asked ; how impossible to
answer it. To mean everything that is best in
the world, to take trouble to do it, to heap solid
benefits on the head of a dependant, a child, or
retainer ; and yet to do it all so as to make the

kindness an offence, almost an insult. What a
curious perversion is this of everything that is
best and tenderest ! John's mother was substantially
right as well as substantially kind.
She had chosen the best guidance for her son.
She had in no way thwarted his inclinations.
She had indeed followed their natural bent,
taken trouble to find the means of satisfying
them ; and yet ! John went away Without a
word. He obeyed her and his fate. But he
thus attained his own wish as if it had been a
hardship, and submitted as to a fiat pronounced
in entire indifference to his wishes. What he
would have liked to do as he crossed the bridge,
and felt the playful gust of the April wind in
his face, would have been to drop the letter
into the river, and go away in one of those
outward-bound ships, on one of those clanging
railways which made a black network all about,
to the end of the world. That would have
pleased him indeed ! To throw the letter into
the dark, quick-flowing tide, to disappear and
be no more heard of: and finally, years after,
to re appear prosperous and great, John May,
and bring wealth and reputation with him. His

mind dallied with this dream as he went along,
and especially as he crossed the bridge, which
suggested freedom and movement. There is
no thought that is so apt to come to a very
young mind. To go away mysteriously, suddenly,
leaving no trace, and in the future  that
future which is scarcely further off to seventeen
than tomorrow to a child  to come back triumphant
to the confusion of all prophets of
evil. Sometimes the young dreamer will carry
out his vision, bringing misery and self-reproach
to those he leaves behind, but coming back inmost
cases far from triumphant, forced by
destitution or misery, perhaps, or at best disenchanted
and dreary, dazzling no one with the
success which has ceased to be sweet. Perhaps
John, who had a great deal of sense, divined
this  at all events, he was held by those bonds
of duty which had lain on him lightly in the
past, yet had created a tradition and necessity
of obedience, which nothing he had yet encountered
was strong enough to abrogate. He felt
the temptation, but it never occurred to him as
one to which he could yield  and though his
heart was in revolt and his pride all in arms.

yet he trudged along soberly across the river
to Great George Street, where he was bound,
without any active resistance, feeling himself
under the guidance and control of an unkindly
fate.

He was received not unkindly, however,
though with great gravity, by Mr. Barrett, the
gentleman to whom his mother's letter was
addressed, and who questioned him as to his
studies, how far he had gone in his mathematics,
and whether he had made any acquaintance
with the special work of the profession he
desired to take up. Mr. Barrett was a very
serious person, indeed, in a dress that was
almost clerical, and with manners more solemn
than ever clergyman had, which is a curious
effect not unusual among lay persons who
assume the attitude of advice and exhortation,
which is supposed to be the special privilege of
the clergy. Mr. Barrett's necktie was not
white, but the grey and black with which it
was striped were faint, producing a sort of
illusion in point of colour ; and his manners
were more distinctive even than his tie.

I know your mother,' he said, ' she is an

excellent woman, a most worthy person. Her
sou ought to be satisfactory, and I hope you
will prove so ; but she has had many trials,
much more than fall to the ordinary lot.'

John did not make any reply ; at all events
nothing was audible of what he said, though
in reality he kept up a fierce fire of response.
If she has had many trials she ought to have
kept them from strangers,' was what he said
hotly within himself.

I trust you begin work with the hope and
intention of making up to her a little for all she
has had to bear,' Mr. Barrett resumed. ' She
has been for many years under my personal
observation, and anyone more devoted to duty
I never saw.'

Oh, yes,' said John to himself, ' that is like
Emily ! not because she likes to do it, but because
it's duty,' which was at once a hostile and
foolish remark.

But you must remember,' said his adviser,
that London is a place full of temptation and
danger. Everywhere it is easy to go wrong ;
so much easier unfortunately than to do right ;
but in London the devil is roaring at every

street comer, seeking whom he may devour.
You must make up your mind to struggle
stoutly against his wiles. I can't even shut out
of my office, though I try to be as careful as
possible, those who prefer the broad path to the
naiTOw ; but I hope you will not let yourself be
led away.'

I hope I shall do my duty, sir,' said John,
this time audibly enough, in a not very sweet or
genial voice.

I hope you will  that is the right way to
look at it : especially to a young man in your
position, a great deal of care is necessary.
Among my other pupils you will find some who
have less occasion, as people say, to work. I
don't myself allow that. I think every man
ought to work, and work with all his strong-th,
if not for necessity, yet for  duty, as you say.
But the sons of parents, who are well-ofi" in this
world's goods, often take a gi-eat deal of licence,
which you, Sandford, in your position, must
not take as an example. You must keep your
nose at the grindstone. It is doubly important
for you in your circumstances.'

It was all that John could do not to demand

audibly, as he did in his own consciousness:
What are ray circumstances, then, what is my
special position?' His position had been a
very good one all his life till now, the best in
the village, after the rector's family, their comrade
and associate. He never had any occasion
to think of himself as received on sufferance,
as inferior to anyone. It wounded his
pride bitterly to be compelled to look upon himself
in this way.

Your advancement will depend upon yourself,'
Mr. Barrett continued. * It is for you to
prove what you can do. After you have gone
through your course of instruction, if you
show yourself diligent, careful, and, above all,
trustworthy, you will receive our best recommendation.
But all this must depend entirely
upon yourself. We can't, of course, take you
upon our shoulders and guarantee your future.
This I hope your mother fully understands. I
am willing to stretch a point for a woman who
has acquitted herself so well under trying circumstances.
But she must understand, and you
must understand, that we don't make ourselves
responsible for you; you must in the end

stand or fall on your own merits. The fii-m
cannot can you on their shoulders about the
world '

*I hope no one expected anything of the
kind,' cried John, aching and throbbing with
wounded pride.

No, no, I hope not. I think it is always
better to make these things quite plain at first.
The premium I remit with pleasure to such
a worthy woman as Mrs. Sandford, to show
my sense of her admirable conduct under very
trying '

'I beg your pardon,' cried John. 'I don't
wish, for my part, to come in on better terms
than the others. I don't want any charity. I
have not my own money at this moment, but I
shall have it when I come of age, and I assure
you there will be no difficulty about paying the
premium then.'

Mr. Barrett looked at him with astonished eyes.
To have charity cast back in his teeth is agreeable
to no man. He stammered as he replied,
with mingled indignation and astonishment,

*I  I don't understand you. What  what
do you mean ? Are you coming to me to

propose an arrangement on your own account ?
or to complete one made by your mother?*
He regained his composure as he went on.
If this is temper, my young friend, we had
better break off at once. I don't want any
touchy people taking offence about my place.'

His tone had changed. He had given up exhortation
and good advice, and spoke sharply,
with a ring of reality in his voice which brought
John to himself.

*I beg your pardon, sir, I am, perhaps,
wrong. T don't think I am ill-tempered or touchy.
1 do want to do my duty, and learn my work,
and make my way. It was only the idea of
charity : and I had never been used to it !' John
said.

I am afraid you'll have a great deal to
struggle with in your disposition, if that's how
you take things,' said Mr. Barrett, shaking his
head. He added, quickly, * I don't know that
I've time to go into the question of your feelings.
The manager will tell you about hours and all
arrangements. I hope he will have a good
account to give of your work and progress.
Good-day.'

This was all he made by his outburst of impatience
and indignation. He left a disagreeable
impression on the mind of his new employer,
and went out himself sore, humiliated, and
injured, feeling himself in the wrong. It was
not his fault, he said to himself. It was the
different position in which he found himself, so
different from the past. That he should be of
no account, received, if not out of charity, at
least out of a humiliating kindness, because of
his mother's admirable conduct in her trying
circumstances  in what trying circumstances?
John could not believe that his father's death
had been so tremendous a grief as all these
sayings seemed to imply. And then to be no
longer consulted, no longer even told what was
going to happen to him, sent off with a note like
an errand-boy getting a place I

The pride or the humiliation of the boy who
has always felt himself to be somebody, and
suddenly discovers himself to be nobody, is not
of much consequence to the world. It is not of
much importance even to himself. In most cases
it does him a great deal of good, and he lives to
feel this, and smile at the keen pangs of his boyhood.

And yet there are few pangs more keen.
They cut like knives through the sensitive fibres
of poor John's heart, and the only refuge which
his pride could take was in imagining circumstances
in which he should vindicate himself 
tremendous accidents, in which his courage and
presence of mind should avert catastrophe, misfortunes
in which he should be the deliverer 
the most common of imaginations, the most usual
of all the dreams of self-compensation. It was
with his head full of all these new complications
that he returned  not home, which was the word
that came to his lips in spite of himself. Not
home, he had now no home. Nobody could call
Mrs. Sandford's rooms at the hospital, home, not
even Susie.

John's heart swelled as he caught himself on
the eve of using that antiquated word, that word
which had no significance any more : and then
he thought of Elle under the old pear-tree with
her algebra, thinking of him. She had told him
to think of her so. A little picture rose before
him quite suddenly. Elle under the pear-tree
with her algebra ! A smile flickered to his lips
t the thought. She would be sure to think of

hint, for she was not very fond of algebra, and,
to escape a little from those mystic signs and
symbols, Elle would be glad to take refuge in
recollections of her friend who was almost like
a brother. He thought he could see her under
the old pear-tree, with the wind in her hair, lifting
the long, heavy, beautiful locks. The pear-blossoms
would not be over yet, the sun would
make it shine like an old castle with turrets of
white. ;Mr. Cattley would still look over Elle's
algebra and shake his head. Oh, yes, he would
shake his head more than ever ; for John would
not be there to suggest a way out of those
thorny paths, and Elle would not make much of
them without that help. It gave him a sensation
of pleasure, as if he had escaped for a moment
from all the gravities of fate, into that
cheerful garden, and found a glimpse of something
like home in Elle's bright face.

You must find fresh lodgings, nearer to your
work,' said Mrs. Sandford, when she received his
report, which was given, it is unnecessary to
say, with considerable reticence, and disclosed
nothing about the Httle encounter with Mr.
Barrett on the subject of the premium, any more

than it did of that imaginary glimpse of Elle in
the rectory garden. ' I am very glad it is all
settled so comfortably; but you must find
lodgings nearer your work.'

I shall not mind the walk. After the day's
work T should like it.'

No. I should not like it for you. I don't
want you to get the habit of roaming about
London. It is not good either for soul or body.
A lodging near the office is best.'

You surely don't mean to shut me up in the
evenings,' said the boy. * You don't mean me
to stay indoors all the night V

It would be much better for you if you did
for yourself. You could find plenty to occupy
you. You might carry on your studies, or, if
you wanted amusement, you might read. Twenty
years hence you will be pleased to think that
was how you spent your nights.'

I can see no reason,' he said, ' why I could
not do all that, and yet live where I am.'

That is because you love the streets,' said
his mother. ' I know : oh, I did not require
that you should tell me. You like the movement
and the noise and the amusement.'

It is quite true,' said John, ' and is there any
harm V

Oh,' she said, ' did not I tell viii, Susie  he
is his father's son.'

CHAPTER VII.

A MAN GROWN.

After this there ensues a gap in John's life : 
no real gap, indeed, but a steady, quiet continuance
of work and training of which the
record might be interesting enough to those who
are pursuing the same path, but not perhaps to
anyone else. He was transferred to lodgings
nearer his work, almost without any will of his
own, his mother acting for him with a steady
authority against which he chafed, but which
it was impossible to resist. The lodgings might
have been the same as those from which he was
transferred, a little parlour, a little bed-room, a
red and blue cover on the table, a horse-hair
sofa, the same features were in both. And here
John settled down. He knew nobody to lead
him into the ordinary haunts of young men in
London; and perhaps the fixed prepossession

against him that he was sure to like what was
wrong, had as strong an influence as the fixed
certainty that nothing but right and honest
things could come from him, which does so
much for some favourites of nature. Human
nature is very contradictory, and no two specimens
can be guided in the same way. His
mother's stern observation of every possible
indication of weakness, and Susie's wistful
watch, enlisted perhaps the evil as well as the
good of John's nature in the cause of virtue.
His temper, and that perversity which is more
or less in every natural character, rose in arms
against the imputation that was upon him.
He said to himself that, whatever happened,
their prognostic should not be permitted to be
right : and thus aided, so to speak, by his
demons as well as by his angels, with his head
held high against all the solicitations of the
lower nature which would have proved that
injurious foregone conclusion to be a just one,
he made his way through the loneliness of those
early years  going back evening after evening
to spend the dull hours in his little sitting-room,
with a determination which virtue alone might
VOL. II. I

not have been equal to, without the aid of those
forces of pride, and opposition, and resistance
to injustice.

This austere self-restraint told upon his work,
as it always does. Temperance and purity give
wings to the mind, as they give force to the body.
He read in self-defence, to quench all youthful
longings after gaiety and brightness, and when
he had exhausted poetry and fiction, which
naturally he felt to be the best indemnifications
and solaces for his loneliness, he began to read
for work and for ambition, and soon found in
those books that dealt either directly or indirectly
with his profession, an interest more ardent,
more exciting, than even that of story. From
seventeen to twenty-one, a youth, with this
inclination for work and few distractions, can
get through an enormous amount of reading
: and John's mind gradually filled with
stores such as no student need have been
ashamed of. They were not perhaps so
classical as they might have been had he
gone to the University, but, in all probability,
even in that respect they were fully as
extensive as they would have been had John

without the stimulus of his resolution and his
solitude ' gone up ' with Dick and Percy
Spencer into the midst of the noisy young life
of their college. He would not have resisted
these cheerful influences ; he would have
done what the others did, and read as little as
was necessary. But in the unlovely quiet of
his little parlour in a little London street, with
pride and angry self-defence keeping his door,
along with more celestial guardians, he read
with enthusiasm, with passion : and as his books,
after the first juvenile frenzy for the lovelier
and lighter portions of literature, were practical
and serious, engaged with the present rather
than the past, he became by degrees a mine of
information, thoroughly equipped for all the
-chances of his work, and every region that
these might lead him to. He read travels and
books upon new and Httle known countries with
devotion. He studied every scheme for the
new development of the untrodden portions of
the earth. He had the stories of all great industrial
undertakings at his fingers' end. In
short, John got to know so very much more
than the narrator of his story, that I give up

i2

the attempt to follow him, simply adding that
though it had been done rather with the intention
of making that austere life possible, than
from any other reason, it had the most admirable
effects both on his mind and his work. Such
stores are like the miraculous gifts of the
Gospel, they cannot be hid. It soon became
apparent, both to those Who were over him and
to his fellow-pupils, that for the settling of a
disputed question, or for the geography of any
new piece of work undertaken by the firm, or
for those most essential questions about native
workmen and local government which tell so
much on enterprises like theirs, there was no
such referee as John. He was sent for before
Messrs. Barrett would settle about that railway
in Hungary. He was consulted as to the South
American business, which eventually, young
Sandford's knowledge having been overborne
by the apparent advantage of the undertaking,
was a source of so much trouble to the firm.
And, by the time he was twenty-one, John was
recognised by everybody as the most valuable
of all the young men trained in the office. He
had already been sent * abroad,' a word which

means anything from Calais to Africa, several
times. He had been in America. He was altogether
an accomplished and fully trained engineer,
capable to tackle even the lighthouses
of Elle's fancy, but perhaps not so earnest about
lighthouses as, under Elle's inspiration, he had
been in his seventeenth year.

All this time his correspondence with Elle
had never dropped : but it had become intermittent.
They had not met during these years
which tell for so much in a young man's life, and
probably even tell for more in the experience of
a, girl. How she had grown up, or whether she
had grown up at all, was a question which
John did not discuss with himself. He was
very fond of Elle, no one had ever taken her
place in his mind. He still thought of her under
the pear-tree with her algebra, as if during all
this time there had been no further development
either of herself or her studies. Elle probably
formed a clearer apprehension of the
changes that had occurred in him : but to John
she was still in short frocks, with all that beautiful
hair about her shoulders. He thought
sometimes of the serious kiss which had passed

between them in token of everlasting friendship,
of brotherhood and sisterhood, a seal of youthful
affection untinged by any of the agitations or
uneasy appropriations of love. It had brought
a little colour to Elle's cheek, but none to that
of John, who had asked for it so seriously.
The thought brought a little stir now, a little
pleasurable movement of his blood. A sister,
but not like Susie ; a friend, but holding a place
apart which no other friend could come near.
And, to tell the truth, John had not very many
friends ; his early life had been against it, and
those guardian demons of whom we have
spoken  demons without discrimination, who
kept out good as well as evil. He was friendly
with most of the people about him, but he had
not many intimates. The place in which Elle
lived supreme, and that in which even Dick and
Percy were still recognised as ' the other boys,*
was kept sacred to that early circle which had
been the closest and the warmest John had ever
known  all the more so from its contrast with
what followed, from the severe mother amid all
the cares and business of the hospital, and Susie
with her wistful, watchful eyes.

He had not paid very much attention to the
fact that his birthday was his twenty-first, and
that he was attaining his majority, though that
is so important a point in the career of many
young men. It was not particularly important
to John. He had no joyful tenantry to celebrate
it ; no happy father and mother to wish
him joy. He was already in some things much
older than his age, experienced by long encounter
with the practical, and by the habits of self-dependence
which the nature of his occupations
had forced upon him. He was rather, if anything,
disposed to smile at the importance of
twenty-one, not seeing what difference it could
make. His little property he had long ceased
to think of. At seventeen it had seemed important;
at twenty, nothing. What could it
matter? It was better, even more just, he
thought, that his mother should have it, who
was after all the natural heir of her parents :
and if it could purchase a little ease, a little
relaxation for her, John was not only generously
willing, but had a less amiable, half scornful
feeling, that to throw it back at her feet was
the only thing that he could desire to do. He

was astonished accordingly when he went by
her invitation on the evening of his birthday to
visit his mother, to find her table covered with
papers and she herself awaiting bis arrival with
a number of accounts and note-books.

I have to render an account of my stewardship,'
she said, with her usual gravity. He did
not always recognise the change in her manner
of speaking to him and regarding him, but
nevertheless there was a great change.

What stewardship V he said.

1 cease to-day to be your guardian, John,
and your trustee and manager and everything.
My father thought it unnecessary to burden
you with any of those things. He had perhaps
an excessive confidence in me. I have now to
give up my accounts '

I want no accounts,' he said : ' I want to hear
nothing about it. If I am to be acknowledged
a man, that's enough. I've been to my own
consciousness a man  and older than most
people  long enough.'

Yes,' she said, vith a little sigh, * you are a
man ; you have proved yourself one. The softest
of mothers (and I know I have never been

soft) could not acknowledge that with more
gratitude and satisfaction than L'

But a little grudge,' he said, with a laugh
He was able to laugh now, though never to
forget altogether the bitterness of being misjudged.
He no longer talked to her with
constraint, feeling himself like a child in her
presence  but even yet he was never really at his
ease vith her. ' With a grudge he said. ' You
would almost rather I had confirmed your bad
opinion, and justified you in what you expected.'

I can't hope that you will understand me 
in that respect,' she said, with a little wave of
her hand dismissing the subject. If she did not
repent of her evil expectations, she was at least
a Httle ashamed of them, and desired no recurrence
tn the subject. 'Look here,' she said,
this is an account of all my incoming and
outgoings for the last four years.'

I don't want to see them,' said John. ' I am
sure you have always done what was best for me.'

And, for the future, here is the statement of
what you have at your disposal. Surely, at
least, you will look at that.'

Mother,' said John,' ' if it is anything worth

counting, couldn't you take it, and get a little
rest ? All this upon your shoulders from year
to year, never any ease or repose, must wear
you out. Why don't you give up, and take
Susie to see a little of the world  of course 1
don't know if there's enough for that,' he added,
hastily, with momentary confusion.

Mother, didn't I tell you !' said Susie, a flush
of pleasure rising over her face.

It was not necessary for anyone to tell me.
There never was any want of generosity,' said
Mrs. Sandford, in a sort of aside. And then she
added, ' Thank yon, John. It is very good of
you to make the offer : but I'm used to the
hospital, and I'm not used to rest. I don't
think I should like it. And my father and
mother would like you to have the full enjoyment
of your own. There is not very much,
but it will always be a comfortable addition to
what you can make. There is about two hundred
a year, everything put together. And I
have as much  that is to say, Susie will have as
much as soon as she makes up her mind to do
anything independent  in the way of marriage
or  any other way.'

At this, Susie turned away with another flush
of agitation and embarrassment. Susie was
now twenty-six, a mature young woman. And
perhaps by times there had come across her
mind desires such as maturity brings, to adopt
some independent career for herself. It was
apparent even to John's eyes, which were not
by any means acute in respect to the doings of
others, that there had been moments recently
in which the idea of marriage had been in consideration
between the mother and daughter,
but he had never been told anything about it,
nor who the suitor was. And there had also
been floating ideas in Susie's head of joining a
sisterhood, and thus consecrating herself to the
service of the sick, to whom she was now a
volunteer and unofficial ministrant. But nothing
had come of that any more than the other. She
was in a state of mental commotion, awaiting
that development which nature craves, and uneasy,
feeling herself no longer a girl to be
swayed by the natural law of obedience and
submission, but old enough to decide and act
for herself : save only that she could not decide
how to act. Her mother's words seemed to her a

reproach. She turned away ; then, coming
back again with an effort, laid one hand upon
John's arm and one upon Mrs. Sandford.

Mother,' she said. * We're both honest, both
John and me. He can do for himself, and I, sofar
as I can see, will never be able to make up
my mind to do anything for myself. Why
won't you take us at our word, and take grandfather's
money, and, for the first time in your
life, rest V

The three were all very different. John,
perhaps, in his confidence of young manhood,
and that consciousness of being entirely a satisfactory
person, which cannot fail to have a
certain influence on a young man's way of looking
both at himself and others, was now the one
most like his mother  and yet he was uot like
her. While Susie, with her soft eyes, her soft
manner, her little flutter of indecision, was as
unlike as possible in sentiment, though her
features were almost identical with those of the
field-controlled and serious woman, with so many
responsibilities on her head, and so distinct a
grasp of them all, whom she was imploring to
take up that softer task, to retire, and accept

the generosity of her children and repose from
her labours. Mrs. Sandford looked the tallest
of the three, not indeed in fact, though she was
taller for a woman than John was for a man 
but certainly in nature, in sentiment, in the impression
which her still graceful, slight figure,
her head carried high, her general air of authority,
gave. She looked from one to another vith
a smile, in which there was (to Susie) indulgent
toleration of miscomprehension, to John, a little
indifference to what he might think at all.

Circumstances alter everything,' she said ;
if I were really an old woman wanting rest I
might take it from you. But I am not. I amas
able for my work as either of you. I like it,
and if you gave me your money you might
have to wait a long time before it came back to
you. All these things are against Susie's proposal.
And as for John '

He looked at her with the opposition in his
eyes which had never been quenched since the
moment they had met at the little station at
Edgeley, on the day his grandmother died.

What of John V he said.

Only that nobody at your age can say what

chances a few days may bring forth ; what
occasion there may be for the support of the
Httle fortune he has a right to, however Httle it
may be. Let us leave this subject for something
that will interest you more. John, your
grandfather's house has not been sold, though I
had thought it better to do so, had the opportunity
occurred. But, as it happens, the opportunity
has never occurred. It is yours, now, todo
what you like with it, and the tenant who
has been in it is going away. I have thought
that perhaps you would like to go  and see for
yourself what is best to be done. You have
still friends there : and you have had few holidays
 few amusements.'

There was a certain compunction in her voice
but John could not observe what there was
in her voice, for the sudden haze of recollection,
and all the old images and thoughts that came
back and enveloped him in an atmosphere so
different from this. The old house so little and
peaceful, the old couple by the fire, the garden
full of sunshine with the old gardener pottering
about, and the old lady with her tender
smile, gathering the flowers. Tt was not that

he remembered all these long past and half-forgotten
things. They returned to him as if
the sphere of living had rolled romid, and he
had come to the former times once more. How
strange out of the matron's room in this huge
London hospital, out of the engineer's busy surroundings,
the office, the plans, the succession
of big undertakings and journeys all over the
world, to return back in a moment to that tranquil
living once again ! He was roused from
this momentary realisation of the past, by
Susie's soft voice saying, with a wistful tone in
it, ' I should like to go with you, John.'

CHAPTER VIII.

A NIGHT ADVENTURE.

John walked home to his lodging full of many
thoughts. It cannot be unpleasant to anyone
to find himself in possession of something unexpected,
which can be called even a little
fortune. Two hundred a year is not much, but
it is a steady backing for a young man, bent, as
John was, on making his way as well in money
and worldly affairs as in matters of higher meaning.
He appreciated the advantage, being full
of good sense and practical faculty, and felt his
foot the lighter on the pavement, and his spirit
the more buoyant for it. Everything bore a
very different aspect to him from the day when
in his desolate boyhood he had discovered with
a pang that he had no right even to what might
eventually belong to him, nothing to do with it
all, no power to keep the old house in monumental

rest and quiet, in memory of its departed
inhabitants ; which had been his first thought.
He was aware now that nothing could have
been more foolish than such an idea, and that
the despite and despair which filled his bosom
at that time were boyish, childish, unworthy.
He felt ashamed, now that he was a man in full
independence, having surmounted all these
miseries, of the petulance, the bitterness, the
misery of the boy. He had thought then that
his grievances were beyond enduring, that
happiness was over for him, that the shadow of
the injustice and unkindness with which he had
been treated would never pass away from his
life. He could not but smile at that fond impression
as he walked home with fight elastic
step, everything so clear round him, his head full
of fine undertakings, his heart at ease. A faint
sense of shame as of having perhaps been unjust
to his mother, only subdued his self-satisfaction.
When he recollected the days in which it
had been difficult to think of her save as Emily,
a flush of self annoyance, of self-condemnation
went over him ; and yet it had been natural that
he should have that feeling. Now he had, like
VOL. II. K

everybody else, a high respect for his mother.
She filled her position with a dignity which
elevated it. She was universally respected.
He could not but feel that she was a woman
worthy of all honour : and he had the satisfaction
of knowing that she, who had begun with so
much distrust and suspicion, had been forced to
respect him. They had mutually achieved each
other's respect, and there was a certain friendliness
between them. This was the furthest extent
however to which John's domestic affections
had gone. He was fond, very fond of Susie :
she was always sweet, always nice, pleasant to
talk to, pleasant to look at, ever kind. But who
could imagine the matron's sitting-room to be
home ? It had never been home, or taken any
homelike aspect to the boy; to the man it was
the lodging of his nearest relations, just as his
rooms, wherever they might be, were his own
lodging  nothing more. Home did not exist
in his world, save in imagination and memory.
He was free of all such ties as he walked on
this particular night, which was a night in May,
from the one place of residence to the other.
His own rooms were better than those with the

horse-hair and red and brie covers of his boyhood.
They had not even any associations in
their favour, from that growing time. They
had not been the scene of those evening studies
which had made him what he was. They were
more comfortable, in a better situation, but
absolutely unconnected with anything save the
most material side of life.

His life itself was much the same as his
lodging. It was full of pleasant activity, and
exercise, and employment. He had nothing to
disturb him. He had been for some time earning
quite enough for his needs, though he was
still so young. But he did not feel young,
having been upon the world, so to speak, so
long, and having lived so much alone. His
mind was full of engineering, of calculations,
of expedients for carrying his road or his railway
over a certain difficult pass, for getting the
span of his bridge exact, for taking advantage of
the geological formations of the country in which
some special piece of work was going on, utilising
the clay to make bricks, the wood for
sleepers, to save time and the money of the
firm. With these thoughts were mingled SAvift

k2

glances at many a problem, passing gleams of
insight and understanding, but little that was
more interesting ; his heart had been quenched
in his youth, and all that belonged to it pushed
out of place. The process had been a hard
one, and he had suffered much "while it was
going on : but it had been accomplished more
than anyone would have thought possible who
had known of John Sandford's youthful life
between the two old people who loved him in
their old home. He was a man now, and as
nearly living by the mind alone, and for the
pursuits of the intelligence and reason without
any softer intermixture, as any man of his age
could be.

Yet, as he went along over the bridge with
the fresh air blowing in his face, full of plans
and purposes mostly theoretical or material, and
with that buoyant consciousness of well-being
and well-doing, of merit and the reward of
merit in his whole being, little breaks of sentiment
came in. Edgeley, which he had not
seen so long, the dear, little old house which
most likely would seem so shrunken and small,
the rectory where he had been so familiar, and

Elle  Elle who had kissed him so sedately
when he bade her good-bye. A little quiver of
silent laughter went over him now at the
thought of that simple token of half-childish
affection. It was strange to think how Elle would
receive him when he went back  not with a
kiss, that was certain. Would it be with the same
friendship as of old ? There had been changes at
Edgeley, yet not anything to make a break in
the perfection of the picture. Mr. Cattley had
lately (and against his will, John felt sure)
been promoted to a living ; and Percy was
coming as curate in his stead. Percy, the
curate ! that made him laugh within himself
once more. He wondered if Percy would be as
of old when he was one of the other boys  or
if he would think John Sandford, the young
engineer, not good enough for the close relations
of schoolboy times. John smiled at this, with
the smile of conscious worth, not likely to be
moved one way or another by what Percy might
think. But it would be curious to go back in
so different a guise and position to that old
familiar scene. He was glad to think of taking
Susie for a holiday anywhere, but perhaps

if truth were to be told he would rather have
take her anywhere else than there. With
home she had no associations. She would interfere,
even though she was too gentle, too
unassuming, to interfere consciously, with a
scene she had nothing to do with, and into
which her image had never come. And she
dismissed that mild image somewhat summarily
from his thoughts. After all, she would be no
more than a bystander. The interest of this
revival of old associations lay entirely with
himself.

He had to pass the office on the way to his
rooms. It was in Great George Street, and all
was very quiet, not very well lighted by the
lamps, silent and vacant, with scarcely a light
anywhere in the windows. There was a lamp,
however, near Messrs: Barrett's door, and he
saw, for some time before he came up, a figure
seated on the steps. What was anyone doing
there ? With a keen sense of proprietorship in
the place, and a determination to have no
loiterers about, John went up to the door. As it
happened it was not one figure but two, dimly
made visible by the lamp, one sitting half-erect

propped up against the door, the other bending
over him, calling him, shaking him occasionally.

Come along, can't ye : take my arm, you'll
soon get your legs again. Get up, don't ye 'ear
me ? This ain't a place to stay.'

Let me alone moaned the other, feebly, * 1
can go no furthered

Come along,' cried the first. * Hi, mate !
Don't you go off to sleep, it's dreadful bad for
you. Take hold of my arm and come along.
They won't let you stay quiet here.'

John came up in time to hear some murmuring
of this talk. He went forward briskly, with
distinct determination to secure public order and
quiet.

'What's the matter?' he said, in a voice
which, though it was peremptory, was too fresh
and cheerful to be terrible. ' What are you
doing here?'

It's my mate as is uneasy on his legs,' explained
a man, whose face was not visible, and
Who did not seem to have much greater command
of his legs than his mate ; and he added,
hastily, 'It ain't drink. A man that likes his
glass as well as 'ere another is my mate, but it's

strangeness like. He's '  here he turned round,
put his hand before his mouth, and whispered

hoarsely, with alcoholic breath  ' he's out o' ,

out o' quod after fourteen year. Lord bless us,
it's you !'

John, too, started a little as the blear face became
visible to him in the wavering light of the
lamp, which a brisk air was blowing about. He
had nearly made the same exclamation. He
stepped back a pace, and said, curtly,

Yes, it's me : you had better move on, you
and your mate, before the policeman comes.'

Give us a bob,' said the man, ' for the sake o'
old times. Lor', to think I should ha' seen you
so long ago, and always when I was engaged in
what ye may call a good work. Give us a bob,
sir, for luck, and because what I'm doing is
charity. He hasn't got his legs, poor beggar.
He's dazed like, and a little drop o' drink's done
for him. He couldn't get no murder. Thinks
he's got home and a-going to turn in and make
himself comfortable ; that's what he thinks.'

And there was a harsh laugh. Of all places
to be taken for home, where a man might make
himself comfortable, the steps leading up to that

securely-closed door, to the empty and dark
house in which there was nothing but business,
no human habitation, not even the possible succour
of a poor housekeeper  was about the most
terrible and extraordinary. John looked at the
almost unconscious figure of the man leaning
up against the door, gaining a certain support
from the recess it formed and the corner of the
woodwork, with a pity in which there was a
sort of derision, too. Could any wretchedness
and friendlessness be greater than that which
sought refuge in the doorway of an empty,
black, and echoing office? The poorest cottage
would have represented something more
human.

Look here,' said John, ' you know as well
as I do that he can't stop here. Can't you
get him away? Don't you live somewhere
where you can take him  if  if he's a friend
of yours V

No, I don't live nowhere,' said the man.
The likes of me don't live more one place
nor another. We likes change we do : but give
me a bob and I'll soon get him a lodging. I
don't say it'll be so easy getting him there, for

he ain't used to the streets, and he's dazed like,
and a little drop of drink, a matter of nothing, a
thimblefuFs done for him. Young chap,' added
the man, sinking his voice, * that man was born
a gentleman, talks like you do when he's himself,
and knows a lot. But when a man once goes
over the traces that don't do nothing for him,
not a bit. Young 'un, you mind what I say.'

There was a tipsy gravity about this admonition
which blended with the pity and the horror,
took away all inclination to laugh, although the
situation was miserably ludicrous too.

This is the third time I've seen you,' said
John. 'Last time you were working at a
foundry.'

For a little bit,' said the man, ' but I'm not
one to settle nowhere, that's the truth. You
see I never had no start to speak of, not like
him there. I've always been about the streets.
It don't make much difference in the end, if
once you take to them sort of ways. See,
there's the policeman coming on, marching as if
he was a whole regiment. Hi, mate ! Wake
up, there's a good fellow. Wake up, I tell you.
Ye can't go to sleep on a doorstep. Hi, mate I
1 say.'

"What's the matter, sir V said the policeman,
coining up ; and at the same time a cab, driving
along-without a fare, drew up to see if anything
which might produce a shilling or an excitement
was going on in this dark corner. The
policeman threw the light of his lantern upon
the face of the man who, half asleep, half stupefied,
leaned up against the corner of the door.
Notwithstanding the dazed condition in which
the unfortunate man was, the face was not in
the least like that of his miserable companion or
his kind. It was clear-cut in features and mild
in expression, a sort of humorous smile about
the mouth, the air as of a man taking his ease
in the attitude with which he leaned back upon
the hard support of the door. White eyelids,
which seemed to conceal large and somewhat
prominent eyes, Avdth very light eyelashes, showed
the extremely fair complexion, which exposure
had browned and reddened in the lower
part of his face. He was dressed in decent
clothes of an old-fashioned cut. Altogether, he
was much more like the victim than the mate
of the hoarse ruffian, who kept bawling in ibis
ears, and from time to time shaking him roughly
by the arm.

I can't tell yon,' said John ; ' I found the two
on the steps of the office to which I belong. I
can't have them here. What can be done?
The other man looks  respectable, don't you
think r

I say, clear out of there,' said the policeman,
whose inspection of John's first acquaintance
had not been satisfactory. * Let's have a look
at the gentleman. Well, he's had too much to
drink, sir, so far as I can see. He is not one as
I've ever seen about. He is a bit queer to look
at. Them clothes is droll, to say the least, but
decent enough so far as I can see.'

He was guarded, as became an official and
representative of the law.

'They're fourteen years old,' said the other
man, * and that makes a difference in closes an'
most other things. He's put them on to-day for
the first time for fourteen year. Look at 'im.
He's come out o' quod, poor beggar, and did not
know nobody, and happened on me. I knew
'im oust, it don't matter where. I've been taking
him about for old acquaintance sake. And
he's dazed like, and no command over his legs,
and a little drop o' drink done for him. I call

him my mate, along o' this that we've been
together in the same place. But he's a born
gentleman, as we'd see if once you heard him
talk : only not being used to it  a little drop of
drink '

You've been and hocussed him,' said the
policeman, with a sudden grasp of the man's
arm.

No, by No, my soul, if I ever '

said the fellow, pouring out a flood of ready
oaths.

The hoarse profanity, the entreaties and remonstrance
of the rude voice, which made a
clamour in the air of the night, roused the slumberer
in the doorway to a state of half consciousness.
He raised himself a little, and blinking at
the light of the lantern with large, mild, light-coloured
eyes, which were humorous and genial
even in their stupefied condition, began to
address the group around him with a smile.

It's only  Joe,' he said ; ' there's not much
harm in  Joe. He's a  a  confirmed offender
and all that. Never could get a  ticket ; but
he's faithful, faithful  not bad company  on the
whole. I take Joe  under my protection. Tea

little money. Let him have  a comfortable bed
like mine,' he added, falling back again with
a smile full of good humour, yefc not without a
touch of ridicule in it, which seemed more conscious
than the speaker was, and which touched
the little group around with a curious mixture
of feeling, subduing the tone even of the policeman,
who looked at John with a bewildered air.

I could take him to the station, sir,' he said,
paying no attention to the exclamations of Joe,
who evidently felt himself entirely rehabilitated
and restored to the good opinions of his fellows
by this strange statement : ' he'd be safe enough
there.'

It seems a pity,' said John.

It do seem a pity,' agreed the guardian of
the night. ' He don't look a bad sort, though
he's been in trouble.'

Those who have been ' in trouble ' come more
natural to policemen than to those more prejudiced
members of society who have no connection
with the criminal classes. They stood
round, looking at the unconscious, slumbering
face supported against the blackness of the
door, and lighted up still with the lingering

remains of that conscious, self-ridiculing smile.
Now John's old lodgings which he had abandoned,
as he rose in the world, were near, and
he felt a great melting of the heart over this
man, whose face was so full of better things,
yet who in all the world seemed to have only
the wretched vagrant Joe, hoarse and ragged
and miserable, to stand his friend. He was
somewhat apt to act upon impulse, though his
impulses were seldom of this reckless kind.

I know,' he said, ' a house where he might
have a lodging : but how to get him there  for
it does not seem possible to rouse him.'

*Here you are, sir,' cried the cabman from
behind, who was almost as hoarse as Joe. ' I'll
take the gentleman. If the bobby will lend usa

hand to get him into the cab '

Lor', I'll get him on his feet in a moment
cried Joe. And presently by the help of John,
the policeman affording such assistance as his
lantern could supply, the half-smiling, half-sleeping
unfortunate was got into the cab and
slowly driven away, John following as in a
dream. He had responded to Joe's hoarse entreaty
for ' a bob,' and he had bestowed another

upon the Tinsoliciting but not iinexpectant
policeman. He was glad when he shook them
all off, and found himself alone again, following
the slow movement of the cab, which crept
along keeping him within sight. What was
this responsibility he was taking upon his
shoulders ? He laughed to himself after a moment
at the curious sense of something new,
something of undefined importance to which he
was committing himself. What was it, after all,
finding a night's shelter in a decent house for a
friendless being who could not concern him
after, to whom he was but acting the part of
the Samaritan ? What more was there to say ?

CHAPTER IX.

GOING BACK.

It was with some difficulty that John persuaded
his old landlady to take in his unfortunate
protege. But the woman had a gi-eat respect
for the young man who had done so well, and
allowed herself finally to be induced to do a
charity, which was what he assured her it would
be, at a rate of payment double that which she
could have procured in the ordinary way. He
went home with a curious commotion in his
heart. The incident was quite new in his experience.
He had never been deaf to the appeals
of charity. When any of the men at the works
got hurt, when there was sickness or death
among them, John was known to be always
ready to contribute what he could for the comfort
of the sufferers or the relief of the widow.
This was almost the only manner in which it
A''OL. II. L

had come in his way to help his fellow-creatures.
To enter of his own accord into schemes of
beneficence had not occurred to him. He had
shrunk even from the undertakings which Percy
Spencer, when in London, had told him of, in
which young men were working for the poor.
John, though he was not at all humble-minded
in ordinary ways, had a certain diffidence and
modesty in this. He had not been conscious of
any capacity in himself to exercise ' a good influence.'
He knew too much and too little to
take it up in good faith as these young men
did  too much of himself, too little of the others.
What he could do to help an individual who came
in his way, or whom he knew, he did quietly,
and this chiefly in material ways ; paying rent,
sending for a doctor, helping to set up a little
shop, or buy a mangle. This he could do ; but
he could not * exercise a good influence :' or, at
all events, he was timid and did not try. He
paid doubly and beforehand for the hesitations
and alarms of his old landlady, who took in with
so much doubt this poor gentleman, who was
not in a condition to take care of himself, and
promised to make up for any damage he might

do, should she suffer b} her charity; but John
did not feel any desire to talk, or to give him
good advice.

The man was got not without difficulty to
bed. His aspect to the young man seemed
quite different from that of the ordinary sinners in
the same way, whom he had seen often enough.
He had a confused look of kindness and that
jovial good-nature which appears in the Bacchanalian
literature of the past, not like the
sodden misery of drunkenness in the present
time. Perhaps this social vice, which is so
terrible in its consequences, has changed its
characteristics, like other things. The man
seemed to have the merry twinkle in his eyes
when he opened them now and then, the
humorous consciousness as of a bizarre and
in-responsible condition which was not culpable,
which belonged to an age when indulgence was
common and supposed to be a venial fault, and
associated with all sorts of fun and good-fellowship.
Tipsiness bears no such aspect now : it is
dull, sodden, miserable, a shame to see. The
victim in the present case was as different as
possible from the brutal drunkards, the wretch



ed, pale self-conscious sinners of a higher
sphere, whom John had beheld with scorn from
his eminence of youthful virtue. His eyes
were not blear and sodden, as the eyes of such
offenders are now-a-days, the gleam of mirth in
them had no guilty look.  If you think I don't
see how ridiculous it all is, you are mistaken*"
they seemed to say.

To think that John should ever have been
moved to an almost sympathetic amusement by
the looks of a man whom he had picked up in a
state of intoxication in the street  to think that
he should have been so much touched by his appearance
as to pick the man up, to transport him
to this familiar place, to exert himself so distinctly
on behalf of an ex-convict, a criminal, a drunkard !
How was it ? he could not tell : and yet, after he
had seen the unhappy man lying quietly asleep
John Avent away with a curious emotion in his
heart. For one thing, the being to whom we
have been kind, whom we have effectually
served, always acquires an interest to the mind ;
our own consciousness of bounty, of charity
still more of mercy, throwing a favourable light
on the recipient of it. And John said to himself

that to have left a man who had at least
the remains of something better about him, who
had come out of prison perhaps with the intention
of leading a different life, in the hands of such
a coarse ruffian as Joe, was a thing which no
one would willingly do. It was found, too, by
the curiosity of the landlady, who emptied the
poor man's pockets in order that John might
see that all was safe, that he had a considerable
sum of money in his possession, which was a
very strong reason why he should not be handed
over in a helpless condition to the tender
mercies of a penniless frequenter of the streets.
John would not look over the contents of his
jyroteges pocket. He saw and counted the
money at the woman's request, but the other
things he folded away in a sealed packet, with
that high sense of the sacredness of personal
belongings which is peculiarly strong in youth.

And then he went home with the consciousness
of having done a good action, which is
also peculiar to his age, making his heart and
step still more buoyant. It was a sort of seal
to all his well-being, to his majority, to his new
and complete independence. On this first day

of perfect manhood (as he thought) to have
served a fellow-creature, to have perhaps
delivered a soul out of pressing danger, anyhow
to have secured the poor man's safety and that
of his money till he should be fit to look after
himself. Poor old fellow, what a pity I Was it
possible he could have nobody to take care
of him? And what, with that cheerful,
humorous face so full of good temper and
geniality, could he have done to merit imprisonment
for fourteen years? John, whose conscious
life was almost included in that term,
shivered as he thought of it. To be shut up in
prison for fourteen years, and then to come out
of it, and find no friendly face, no hand to meet
his, but only those of Joe !

Next day, however, John was sent away to
look after some work which was going on at
a distance, and when that was completed the
time had arrived when his leave of absence
began, and he was free to go to Edgeley. The
press of work, and then the rush of other interests
and commotion, drove the poor man whom
he had succoured out of his mind. He had intended
vaguely to go to Mrs. Bentley's to

inquire after him sullen he returned to town ;
but with the visit to Edgeley before him, and
all the rising of things new and old in his mind,
it was not wonderful if this momentary interest
failed. A vague surprise that the man himself
had taken no notice, also went across the surface
of his thoughts, but this he soon perceived
was somewhat unreasonable, since there was
little ground for thinking that he was at all
aware who his helper was, or whether in reality
anything had been done for him. John had
scarcely time indeed to think of the matter at all,
until he was travelling, in the seclusion of a 
to Edgeley, a moment in which all
the omissions and forgetfulness of an immediate
past are apt to come into our heads. But they did
not last long in John's. He was going  back.
He could not call it home, after four years 
having in the meantime no knowledge, save by
letters at long intervals, as to what the changes
-were which he might find there. Susie had
excused herself from accompanying him, but
had promised to follow in a day or two, and
John had secured for himself a lodging at Mrs.
Sibley's, where Mr. Cattley still was. The very

names gave him a thrill of feeling : to pronounce
them lightly again as everyday matters seemed
so strange. The first return after a long absence
is not like any other. When it becomes a matter
of use and wont to go and come, the mind gets
accustomed to the thought that life goes on in
many places at a time, almost entirely unaffected
by its own presence and absence. But to John
the village had been suspended in a sort of crystal
of memory since ever he left, and, although
he knew this was impossible, he half expected
he should find it so suspended, only to be restored
to the current of a progressive existence
on his return.

He travelled by night, as busy men do, and
he could almost have believed that this fancy
was real, when he arrived in the early morning
and found the houses still half asleep, opening
their eyes and shutters, awaking to life as he
came back. He had put his portmanteau on the
omnibus (which was something new ; there had
been no omnibus when he left), and walked
across the common in the early glory of the
morning, everything so fresh and sweet around
him. The hedgerow on the one side, and the

tufts of bushes and low trees on the other, were
all glistening with the early dew. There were
many fine things in London, and the trees in the
parks were looking their best and freshest in
the May weather, but John reflected that either
there was no dew there, or else it fell when nobody
knew, or  a still less poetical explanation,
it became so black with the soot in it that it
was more like ink than dew upon the leaves.
But here it was a sort of elixir of life, so pure
and glistening, every drop like a little heaven.
He walked on slowly, willing to put off the
realisation of the world he had known so well,
now that he found this world so near to him. A
thousand nameless odours seemed to be going
up to heaven : the smell of the fresh earth, of
the growing grass, of the heather that began to
push upward in strong green bushes, of the
gorse unfolding its honey blossoms, of the sweet
briar in the hedge : and along with all these an
indefinite sweetness of the morning which could
not be explained, which was partly physical and
partly spiritual, a sweetness that went into the
very soul. John could not but remember the
many times he had come along this way : but

his recollections were winterly, or tliej were
pictures of the night, when the village lights
had been shining, and the common lost in the
darkness. Above all he recollected the silent
drives he had taken with his mother to and fro,
when he had met her fur the first time, when
he had disowned her and called her Emily, a
memory which made his cheek burn and sting ;
but it was not his fault. He did not think of
her as Emily any longer. He respected her and
all she said and did : but his heart was not much
nearer to her than when he had sat by her side
with his head turned the other way, in a concentrated
still opposition to her and all her ways.

These recollections and reflections chilled him
a little as he walked along ; but soon happier
thoughts came. The scenes of his old life
began to pass before him like a succession
of pictures. Mr. Cattley's room, with all the
books lying about, and the two photographs,
her own and John's, which Elle had fastened over
the curate's mantelpiece when they ended their
lessons  would they still be there in the same
place ? and how had Mr. Cattley made up his
mind to go away? and how was it possible to

imagine Percy at the reading-desk and in the
pulpit as Mr. Cattley's successor? This thought
made John laugh. xA.nd then he seemed to seethe
rectory garden rolling out before him, and
Elle and himself coming so very quietly down
the walk after that kiss Which had been such a
solemnity. Would she recollect that, and grow
red (as John felt himself to do all alone in the
soft, uninquisitive light of the May morning),
when she met him again ? and had she remembered
what she had said about the pear-tree and
her algebra, which she was to study there ? She
was never very good at her algebra : that was
the very best thing she could have been doing
when she wanted to think of John. He came
along smiling, thinking of all that, not of the old
house and the old people, which were too sacred,
which were put off to a time when he should be
less conscious of the curiosity and amusement
and wonder of coming back to the old place,
and seeing it awake, as the ' Sleeping Beauty '
must have seen the world awake round her,
rubbing its eyes and stretching forth after years
of suspended animation, taking up once more
its natural life.

The ' Green Man ' stood open, but not with
the dissipated air, the look of tremendous wickedness
and riot which it once had borne. He
thought it an innocent-looking little village alehouse
now, with no harm about it : and Johnson,
blinking over his early pipe at the door, no
monster at all, not even bloated, but very much
like other men. Mrs. Box had finished taking
down her shutters, and the perambulator stood
at her door just as of old, and the milkman was
coming along with his shining cans, looking up
and shading his eyes from the sun, as he looked
in obedience to a question from the woman he
was serving, as to who the gentleman was who
was crossing the road towards Mrs. Sibley's.
One o' Mr. Percy's friends,' the milkman said,
by way of maintaining his character for universal
knowledge, yet not committing himself. It
was curious to John to see that nobody recognised
him, neither the porter at the station nor the postman
whom he met, and whom he felt so strong an
inclination to stop and ask for the letters as of old.
He felt pleased, and yet a little troubled and somewhat
desolate. The great difference there must
be in him he took for granted must be to his

advantage : and yet it was dismal to pass like a
stranger through a place which he knew so
well.

Mrs. Sibley, however, who expected him,
knew John, and received him with an enthusiastic
welcome, and in due time so did Mr. Cattleyy,
who hushed downstairs, half-dressed, to
grasp his old pupil by the hand.

Is it possible that it is you, John ? I doubt,
really, whether I should have known you. You
have grown a great deal, and got a very manly
look. Are you really only twenty-one ? I
should have thought you four or five years older
if I had not known.'

I've been knocking a great deal about the
world,' said John.

He was pleased to be supposed to look older,
like most lads of his age.

Yes, I know. I've always looked up on the
map where you were, to tell EUy. She likes to
see the exact place and find out aU about it.
You've not  no ; of course you cannot hav
seen Elle since you came V

I have come straight from the station,' said
John. ' I did not so much as see anyone stirring

at the windows in the rectory as I passed.'

I am surprised at that,' said the curate.
She was so anxious to be the first to see you.
She had half a mind to go to the station. But
I thought it better not, and on the whole so did
she, for Percy  that is to say, he is apt to take
fancies in his head.'

What fancy could he take into his head V
John asked, ' that could concern me 1'

The curate cleared his throat, and after a
moment changed the subject as well as he
could.

You find me still here, John, though perhaps
1 should have gone before now. For my part I
daresay I should have stayed on all miy life : but
when Percy got old enough to hold the curacy it
seemed to be thought that I should go.'

I am sure they will all miss you dreadfully,'
said John.

*Do you think sos said Mr. Cattley, with
doubt in his tone. He sighed a little, but then
cheered up again. ' Well, perhaps it is true
that I ought to go. I've been here a long time,
and perhaps, as Mr. Egerton says, if I delay
longer  but I'm a man of use and wont, John,

perhaps too much so  perhaps too much so.'
Mr. Cattley sighed softly again, the roused
himself, and added, with sudden briskness,
But you must want your breakfast  of course
after travelling all night you want your breakfast.
Mrs. Sibley, 1 hope you have been thinking
of LIr. John's breakfast  for you know he
has been travelling all night.'

It's quite ready, sir,' said Mrs. Sibley, ' and
a pleasure it is, sir, if you'll excuse me saying
it, to see him again.'

Why should 1 excuse you saying it ? It is
the most natural thing in the world to say. We
all think it a pleasure. And tell me, John,' said
the curate, * do you find this night travelling
suit you? I know business people think it
saves time, but it seems to me to knock you up
next day.'

I have been so used to it,' said John. ' I
don't mind. I can sleep nearly as well as if I
were in bed. In some places where I have been,
all the best trains go by night, and in America,
where the distances are so great, you have to
make up your mind to travel night and day.'

Dear me, what a traveller you have disown,'

said Mr. Cattley. ' It is astonishing to look at
you and to think you have been in America and
at the ends of the earth.'

John laughed a little and settled his collar,
and felt the superiority of his position.

I have been about a great deal,' he said, with
conscious modesty. He could not but feel that
he was coming back in the way he had wished
and anticipated, with colours flying and drums
beating, and the certainty of having done not
only as well as anyone could have done, but
far better than could have been expected. Mr.
Cattley unwillingly going away to his living,
and Percy stepping into the post which had
been kept thus warm for him, were fulfilling
the ordinary law of nature. But John might
just as well have done nothing in particular,
have contented himself with holding his place
and no more. He sat down at the table in the
old bow-windowed room, where all his early
education had been given him, with a still
warmer thrill of self-approval. It is so seldom
that one can feel one's self to have done more than
one's duty. The two little photographs were
still over the mantelpiece where Elle had placed

them. The room was exactly the same as it
had always been : yet in himself what a difference
! But the difference in his case was all for
the better. It was not perhaps altogether the
same with Mr. Cattley. And with the others, too,
how would it be ?

VOL. II. M

CHAPTER X.

THE WELCOME.

Hullo, Jack, is this really you?' .

The speaker was the Rev. Percy Spencer,
as completely arrayed a curate as could be
found in all the parishes of England. John
sprang up from his seat, and contemplated him
with an amused scrutiny which suddenly ended
in a burst of laughter. Percy did not refuse to
join a little, but only a little, in the laugh, conscious
of the difference between his long clerical
coat and high waistcoat, and the soft hat he
held in his hands, and those gayer garments,
resplendent ties and canes in the height of
the fashion, which had distinguished him in his
university days. John had not seen him since
he had assumed the severe simplicity of this
priestly garb, and he was willing to allow a

momentary merriment ; but he soon resumed
the Httle air of seriousness and responsibility
which became his position.

'I daresay,' he said, *you find me a little
changed ; so I am. It makes a vast difference
on a man, on his feelings as well as on his
clothes, when he becomes a priest. But, all the
same, I'm delighted to see you, and I hope
Cattley has given you a good breakfast after
your journey.'

Cattley ! John, notwithstanding that he felt
himself rather a fine fellow, had preserved, probably
because of having been so far removed
from the scene of them, all the traditions and
reverential usages of his youth, and to have
called his old tutor Cattley would have been no
more possible to him than to have thrown stones
at the old church-tower which presided over the
village. Percy, too, thought himself a fine
fellow, a much finer fellow than John, and the
young layman naturally saw the absurd aspect
of that conviction in the person of the young
priest.

I am very well,' he said, ' I have had a
capital breakfast, and everything here looks

m2

delightful and like itself even Mr. Cattley ; only
you and I have changed, I think.'

You're not so big as you promised to be,'
said Percy, with satisfaction. * I thought you'd
have grown twice that height. Dick is six
foot, don't you know. That's all very well for
one in a family, but you can't go on doing it.
I suppose you're going now to see  Aunt Mary ?
You're expected, of course. Cattley, there's a
good fellow, do put me up a little to the manners
and customs of Feather Lane.'

'If I go now will it be too early for  the
ladies' said John, * as I see you've got business
on hand.'

Oh, not at all ; no business in particular ;
only I'm taking hold of the work, and Cattley is
giving it up. Things are a little different, don't
you know, from what they were when he took
it up. I daresay I shall have to make changes
Percy said.

Every new man does that,' said mild Mr.
Cattley, * and undoes them again two or three
times probably before he finds the right way.'

I hope,' said Percy, ' I shan't be so long
about it as that ; but if you're ready, Jack, I'll

step along with you. You oughtn't find Aunt
Mary by yourself. She's busier than ever in
the parish, more busy than she has any occasion
to be ; but ladies seldom attain the juste milieu'

Mr. Cattley's eyes flashed a Httle at this, but
he only permitted himself to say,

You must give up those pretty speeches
about ladies if you mean to do much good
in the parish. Shall I see you back to dinner,
John V

'They're sure to keep him to lunch,' said
Percy, not sony to aback to *01d Cattley'
an answering prick : for the curate, in deference
perhaps to Mrs. Sibley, had always continued to
call his mid-day meal his dinner. ' Hadn't you
better come too ? Aunt Mary will want both
of you ; and then you can tel her yourself when
you are going away. I hope I can give as
good as I get,' said this young ecclesiastic, ashe
led the way out of the house. ' Old Cattley
is too much of a good thing 'udth his advices
and his prophecies, as if we had not learnt a
thing or two since his time. And he doesn't
want to go, don't you know, not a bit. fie has
hung on here years longer than he ought to

have done. My father did not mind waiting till
I was ready to step in ; but an old fellow like
that is quite out of date for a curate. I'll have
a great deal of trouble to work the parish into
what's wanted now.'

Perhaps 1 don't know what's wanted now,'
said John, with some suppressed resentment.
I always thought Mr. Cattley the model of
everything a clergyman should be.'

'That's a very nice little speech,' said the
Rev. Percy; 'but, bless your heart, he's nota
churchman at all  not a bit of him. Even
Aunt Mary sees it now. He's so much her
slave, that she has always stuck to him, but
I think even she sees it now.'

There was a little pause, and then John said,,
falteringly,

I hope Mrs.Egerton is quite wells

Oh ! she's well enough, thanks. She's grown
stout. Ladies of her age generally do. She
likes to mess about in the parish, and Cattley
has always given in to her : but I mean to put
my foot down, and make an end of that sort of
thing. I shall have it entirely in my hands, of

course ; for my father, you know, doesn't trouble
himself much to interfere.'

*And I hope the rector is  quite well?' said
John.

Oh, thanks, he's well enough.'

There was not a word of Elle on the one
side nor the other. John felt a chill, so far ashe
was concerned, which he could not himself
understand. He had been so full of her, thinking
more of her than of all the rest of the
village put together. And now he did not even
inquire for her! He walked along the road
under the fresh green of the trees, while Percy
entered more largely into all the new things
he was about to do. John did not take very
much interest in it. It would have pleased him
a great deal more to hear the simplest thing
about her whose name he had not ventured
to pronounce. It was but a short way between
Mr. Cattley's door and the rectory, but Percy
had managed to unfold a great many of his
plans, and show clearly enough that he meant
to turn the parish upside down, before they
reached the door. John, to tell the truth, gave

but a very distracted attention. His eyes were
inspecting the house, every window and opening.
It seemed so strange that she should not
at least be looking out for him somewhere,
expecting him. Elle I Why, she had been
about the same as a sister. She had been
more than his sister : she had been his comrade
and play-fellow : and to think that he had
not the courage to ask for her, and that she
did not so much as look out of a window to
see whether he was coming ! It was neither
possible nor natural that such a thing should be.
Percy's voice ran on in a sort of complacent
sing-song, while this thought took possession
of John's mind. What did he care for what
the fellow was going to do in the parish '? His
self-assurance was intolerable to John, notwithstanding
that he himself, in his way, was quite
as much disposed to think well of his own new
methods, and despise his elders, as Percy could
do. But that is a thing which looks much less
natural in another than it does in our own
case. And John's suspense and surprise were
becoming more and more highly wrought.
Could it be possible that Elle was not at home,

that she was absent just when he looked for
her, that she might perhaps never have heard
that he was coming? This thought roused a
great anger in his mind  he jumped at it vith
a flash of sudden conviction. She had never
received his letter. She had never heard

"When suddenly the door opened, and someone
came out, meeting them : a young lady
nearly as tall as John, with brown hair of a
warm shade, plaited in endless coils round the
back of her head, with a stately carriage, a long
white dress almost touching the ground ; but,
what was far better than all the rest, two hands
held out.

After all, I was the first to see you,' she
cried. ' Oh, Jack, did he tell you ? 1 Alas
looking over the garden-wall when you passed :
but you never looked up. Oh, Jack, welcome
home I'

And this was ally ! He took the hands she
held out to him, and grasped them tight, and
stared at her, but with changing looks, and the
most extraordinary revolution going on in his
mind. So this was Elle ! He felt himself grow
red, he felt himself stare ; he was speechless,

and had not a word to say. He had a kind of
certainty that he must be disappointing to her,
and that she expected him, naturally, to say
something. But he could not find a word to
say.

At last she tried to draw her fingers out of his
clasp, and grew red, and laughed.

I daresay it is my fault. My hands are not
so solid as they used to be. You  you hurt mea
little, Jack !'

He dropped them as if they had been on fire,
and burst into excuses.

How horrible of me !  how disgusting. As
if I oughtn't to have known. As if I shouldn't

have been sure ' And here John's voice

seemed to die away in his throat, and he stood,
now averting his eyes, now giving her a sudden
shame-faced glance, crimson covering his face,
and shame and perturbation his soul.

Why should he have been so much ashamed ?
and why should the sight of Elle have discomposed
him so ? Who can tell ? It was a climax,
and it was at the same time a contradiction. That
Elle ! How was he ever to suppose she would
grow to be like that ? And yet of course that

was just how she must have grown, he said to
himself  or rather, which is truer, himself said to
him  as he stood staring, lost in disappointment
and trouble, and self-disgust and delight. And
the strange thing was, that she too grew confused
and embarrassed under his gaze. She had
been, perhaps, to tell the truth, a little embarrassed
from the first, not knowing how to get
the first meeting over, anxious to get it over, and
have the new system of intercourse begun.

Well, Sandford,' said Percy, * you seem to
find my sister as much changed as you found
me? Where's Aunt Mary, Elinor? Of course
she is full of curiosity to seethe great conqueror
that is to be '

Of course she wants to see Jack, if that is
what you mean,' said Elle. She made a little
pause before his name, and gi-ew red as she said
it, which was wonderful, confusing, extraordinary
beyond measure to John, who did not know
what to make of it all, neither of himself nor of
her, nor of Percy, who called him Sandford and
Elle Elinor. Something had happened ; something
had changed in a way he had not thought
of nor anticipated : and he did not know whether

he was most happy or unhappy at the change.
He followed Elle in, looking at her, at her tallness,
her slimness, the sweep of her long dress,
her shining coils of hair, not tossing on her
shoulders any longer in those tumbled curls,
everyone of which had seemed to have an independent
life of its own, but so smooth and
orderly in endless plaits. He was not quite sure
if he was walking on solid ground or floating
after her upon the golden morning air in which
her white figure seemed to float glorified. He
had to shake himself out of this dream, as Mrs.
Egerton came out with hands outstretched,
and the rector in the background, who never
took much notice, added a word of welcome.
They were both exactly the same, the lady a
little stouter, as her nephew had said ; and the
house was the same, restoring his balance a
little by means of its steady unalterableness,
every ornament in its habitual place, nothing
changed.

So long as he did not look at Elle, John
felt the giddiness go off, and his head got
steady again. He was taken into Mrs. Egerton's
room and had to give an account of himself,

which, stimulated by her questions, he did in
great detail Elle kept a Httle behind, out of
sight, as this examination went on. Perhaps
she had guessed by sympathy or otherwise that
the sight of her made John's head go round.
Mrs. Egerton was immensely interested in John's
account of himself, but it seemed by-and-by to
pall upon Percy, who went out declaring that
he must go to his work and that ' Old Cattley '
was waiting for him, a phrase which John
thought did not please Mrs. Egerton any more
than it pleased himself. Percy added a word
to his sister as he went out.

Isn't this your day for the schools, Nell V
which that young lady did not receive with
much greater favour. There was a little pause
of joint disapproval as he disappeared. In John's
opinion Percy had grown insufferable in his new
development : my sister, Elinor, Nell  all these
names, as applied to Elle, were equally intolerable.
The pretensions of this new-made priest
were more than any man could put up with,
John felt, not being at all aware that in himself
there were elements of self-complacency very
clear to spectators too.

I suppose you are not going to the schools
to-day, Elle V Mrs. Egerton said.

*No, Aunt Mary, 1 never said 1 would go
always; and it is not every day that  Jack
comes home.'

These words were delivered with a little suddenness
and a tone as of defiance, but Mrs.
Egerton did not take up the glove.

Percy would like to keep us all to our duties,'
she said, with an ease which made the success
of that effort very doubtful, ' but we don't at
present see our way to absolute obedience.
Since you are not going to the schools, sit down,
Elle, and keep still. No doubt you distract
John's attention, fluttering about like that. I
am sure you do mine.'

John did not say anything. It distracted him
still more when she came at her aunt's order and
sat down within sight, and let him see how carefully
she was listening, and what interest she
took in his narrative  which henceforward became
a very broken affair, chiefly elicited by
questions to which he replied. He had all the
desire in the world to interest and satisfy Elle,
but his own interest in all her looks and movements

was so great, and his anxiety not to lose
a word she said, that the desire was baulked
even by its very warmth. Perhaps Mrs. Egerton
perceived the ground of the disturbance in
the young man's mind, for she came suddenly
to the present, after he began to waver in his
narrative of the past.

And so,' she said, * you have come to settle
about the old house, John? Have you been
there yet V

No,' he said, ' not yet. I did not care to goat
once. Being with Mr. Cattley was like old
times, without the pain of contrast.'

Ah ! and that's a pleasure you will not
have very long. I am glad you keep to the
"Mr. Cattley," John. I expect to hear Percy
call me Mary tout court one of these days. I
am glad some of you boys have a little sense
of what is befitting. Mr. Cattley is going, you
know.'

I am sorry, Mrs. Egerton : and yet I suppose
'

'One ought to be glad? That is just my
feeling. One ought to be glad. He never
would have  married or done anything else

that is necessary at his age, or asserted himself
and his independence, here. But come, tell me :
you are going to settle about the old house.
Do you mean to sell it, or to let it, or what do
you mean to do V

1 want to do a silly thing,' said John.

Well ! out with it. What is your silly thing ?
You young men are all so admirably sensible
and awake to your own interests. I am rather
glad to hear of anything that can be called so.'

I should like,' he said, * to keep the house in
my own hands. My sister is coming to join me
presently.'

But you couldn't stay here  at your age,
and getting on so well in your profession.'

 Oh, no ! But it used to be a dream of mine
to keep it up in the old way. Would it be very
silly ? Susie could come when she pleased, and
my mother if she pleased. It would be something
to think of and come back to.'

But then you would require to furnish it and
keep some one in it.'

John looked at Elle, and she at him. It was
almost the first time that their glances had met.
There was a flash of private communication.

confidential, charged with intelligence : and then
over both the young faces there came something
like a flame, a flush of recollection and
emotion. That had been their last interview :
and how much there was in it which it was
confusing to recall now.

What are you looking at each other for, you
two?'

'You know, Aunt Mary I' It was the first
time Elle had spoken. *The two dear old
chairs. Jack, they have been in my room ever
since. Often and often I have wondered if they
knew. I have taken such care of them. When
you take them back, it will seem like losing old
friends.'

Oh ! yes, I remember,' said Mrs. Egerton.
She looked from one to another with a slightly
roused look ; perhaps she had not been alarmed
before. She saw a Httle excitement in both
faces, an unusual colour and light in their' eyes,
which showed more feeling than was at all
necessary. And in the atmosphere altogether
there was a sort of electricity, something that
was different from the everyday calm.

The watchful family guardian was startled.
VOL. II. N

She had not thought there was any danger.
When Percy had fumed and indulged in whatever
is the clerical substitute for swearing, and
declared that he would not allow any nonsense
between that fellow and Elle, his aunt had put
him down with calm decision, and an assurance
that nothing of the kind was possible. That
look produced a change as rapid as itself in
Mrs. Egerton's frame of mind.

Do you know she said, with no perceptible
change from the maternal kindness of her previous
tone, * I think it would be rather a silly
thing. It would bind you to this little place
quite out of the way, with which you have, so
to speak, no family connection, for none of your
people have belonged here ; and you would entail
upon yourself a considerable expense, for you
can't furnish a house with two old chairs, whatever
may be their associations. I don't think I
would do it, if I were you.'

CHAPTER XL

THE OLD HOUSE.

John was not convinced, though he was a Httle
discouraged, by Mrs. Egerton's speech. To say
that none of his people belonged there when the
two, the only two who had trained and loved
him, were lying side by side, unalterable inhabitants
; and when all the associations of his
boyhood, all he knew of home, was in this
place ! He was a little aggrieved, wounded and
troubled by that phrase. They had always
been so kind. It had never been made known
to him in any way that he did not belong 
that is, that he was not one of the known and
accredited families who alone were on the same
level as the Spencers. He knew indeed that he
was not on the same level vith them  he could
remember, now he thought of it, the gratitude of

n2

his grandparents and their gratification at his
adoption into the circle of the rectory. And
there was nothing unkind in what Mrs. Egerton
had said ; perhaps she meant nothing at all ;
and, if she did mean anything, it was the kindest,,
mildest suggestion that he had perhaps no particular
right to assume a place as one of the
village aristocracy.

If she did mean that, John said to himself
that he was not going to be discouraged by
such a small matter. He was not, as a point of
fact, connected with any great family like the
Spencers. He was perhaps nobody, going to
be the architect of his own fortunes ; but why
should he have less love for the scene of his
early associations because of that? He went
away a little earlier than ,he might otherwise
have done, after the luncheon to which Mr.
Cattley came with Percy, though he had said
he should not. It was a very pleasant luncheon
; nothing could have been brighter than
the table, and the looks of the two ladies at
least. There was a little too much clerical
talk, talk about the parish ; but then perhaps
that was natural in a clerical house and under

the stimulus of a brand-new curate, just in
harness, and much enamoured of his new position
and power.

Percy was a Kttle overpowering, all-persuasive,
bringing back the conversation
if it ever strayed for a moment from the regulation
subjects, and Mr. Cattley was a little
subdued, saying little, evidently feeling the
oppression of this novelty, as well as the deepening
influence of his approaching departure.
John himself, sitting opposite to Elle, not able
to avoid looking at her, getting accustomed
to her new aspect, was not capable of a very
lively part in the conversation. But yet it was
all pleasant, and everybody was kind. He
walked away alone afterwards down the village
street, saying this to himself. Nobody could be
more kind. John had no other friends to receive
him in that way. When he had been in
America and other places far from home, holding
an important place in ' the works,' he had
been thus entertained on various occasions ; but
at home he knew nobody, and lived in his own
rooms in a very recluse fashion. To be so
familiar at any family table, to be called by

his Christian name  (though Percy said nothing
but Sandford) was an unaccustomed
pleasure, and one that he could enjoy only
here. But, nevertheless, a cloud had come 
even since the morning, since his first welcome.
Then there had not been any cloud  now it
was only to be divined from austere movements
of Mrs. Egerton's eyelids and tones of
her voice : and yet John felt that it was there.
A little place quite out of the way, with which
you have no real family connection.' That was
true enough : he understood what she meant,
though he had never thought of it, or been
moved by it before. The Sandfords were not
established in the county, like the Spencers 
they were nobodies, most likely: grandfather
and grandmother had not been on the same
level as the rector and Mrs. Egerton. It was
quite true. It was only a cloud like a man's
hand, not so much. But still it was enough to
spread a cold chill through that warm, sunshiny,
delightful air of May.

With this in his mind, John walked down the
street to see the old house. Notwithstanding
the chill, he had not in the least degree changed

his mind. If it was a silly thing, he would still
do it. He did not pretend to be wise. He would
please himself, whatever Mrs. Egerton might say;
indeed, what she had said had confirmed him in
this his intention, as sensible opposition so often
does confirm us in the silly things which our
hearts desire. And, when he got to the house,
he found, to his surprise, that it would not be so
difficult as he had supposed. It appeared that
a good deal of the simple, old furniture had not
been sold. And he felt as if it might have been
a cleaning-day,' such as some he recollected, and
that grand mamma might be in some of the other
rooms, taking refuge from the tubs and the charwoman,
who had always been called in to help
Sarah on such occasions. His heart and his eyes
filled as he went over the house. The recollections
of his childhood took possession of him,
both sad and pleasant. All the happy past of
his Hfe had been spent there. He had known no
vexation or misery there ; nothing but hallowing
grief, which is the one painfuUest thing upon
which the heart can go back without bitterness.
He thought of them going away one after the
other, and of his own desolation and the emptiness

of the house ; but how sweet these recollections
were in comparison with what followed :
and how much sweeter, tenderer, more delightful
the happiness then, than even that buoyancy
of well-being and self-satisfaction with which he
had come back I

John retraced his steps after that survey with
a subdued and softened heart ; and he met Elle
in the middle of the village street. She was
walking quickly when he perceived her first,
with her head turned towards his house, and
every appearance of having a distinct aim and
purpose in her walk. But, when she saw him,
her intention seemed to change. Her aim suddenly
failed her, her pace slackened, and an
embarrassed look of not knowing where she was
going came into her face. John did not understand
this at first, until it suddenly flashed upon
him that she might be going to meet him there.
No doubt she perceived the chill that had come
over him, and had hastened to console him. He
hurried on to meet her, but, when he did so,
found that she was turning off in another direction,
with a look which was full of embarrassment.

I thought perhaps you were coming to take

another look at the poor old place,' he said.

Oh, no,' cried Elle, but her face contradicted
her words.

I have just been going over it : the garden
looks the same as ever : they have changed nothing
; and the rooms could very easily be
restored; they were never very much, never
anything fine.'

They always seemed delightful to me,' said
Elle, simply.

'I was very presuming to ask that of you
about the chairs,' he said. ' I don't know that
I ever fully understood it before to-day. I am
sure you will consider how young I was. Miss
Spencer, only a boy '

Miss Spencer !' she cried. * Jack, is that my
name?'

'I suppose it must be,' he said. *To come
back and find you  as you are : after being so
silly as to hope that we should meet just the
same as ever, and that I should find you a child
still '

Then you were disappointed in me. Jack V
she said, in a low tone.

Disappointed I' he cried. Then after a pause:

< Of course, it comes to the same thing. You
are a young lady now ; you're not my old
schoolfellow. I aren't speak to you as I used,
or think of you as I used. Many a dreary time,
when I'd nothing else to be a little comfort, I've
thought of what you said, that you would learn
your algebra under the pear-tree and think of
me,'

John was sad enough, for all the differences
rushed upon his mind, and seemed to push him
away from her side ; and yet he could not but
smile, thinking of the algebra which Elle never
could learn. She understood him, for she smiled
too.

I gave up the algebra a long time ago,' she
said, 'almost as soon as you went away  for
how could I learn it without you to help me ?
But I still kept going to the pear-tree all the
same, and  thinking of you.'

That was very good of you, Elle.'

'Ah, come, that's something like,' she cried.
Do you think, Mr. Sandford, whatever happened,
I should ever call you anything but Jack?'

That's another thing  that's natural ; what
could I be else ? You may call me Jack, Jack,

like a dog, if you please ; but that doesn't mean
that 1 should be wanting in any respect to you

She gave him a look, half entreating, half upbraiding,
and then she said, quietly,

Were you going to the  churchyard, Jack?*

Yes.'

May I go, too ?'

Oh, will you, Elle V

That was the best way to dispel the prudery
that had taken hold upon him. He could not
be anything but natural beside their graves.
This was what Elle said to herself, knowing
very well, all the while, that his prudery, as she
called it, was the most natural of all, and that
he and she sedately walking along together to
make that sacred visit, were boy and ghi no
longer, and could not be Elle and Jack to each
other again, save in a spasmodic and artificial
way. Did not she know this as well, better
than he?  for, nati-ally, the subject was one
which presented itself in a stronger light to Elle
than it could to John. But, nevertheless, it
was agreeable to her to meet him in this way,
and get over the dangerous barrier, if not permanently,
at least for a little while. They went

to the grave, all covered with May flowers, and
kept in careful order, as John could see, and
where Elle busied herself in picking out imaginary
weeds and faded blooms leaving the young
man free to think or pray, as he pleased.

It is to be feared that John thought more of
her than of them. He gave them a momentary
thought in their stillness and calmness, so long
ago delivered out of all commotion and trouble,
and then his mind fled to matters more urgent,
to the young creature bending over them, who
was so familiar yet so unfamiliar, who woke so
many bewildering, new sensations in his heart.
John felt that it was intended to take Elle from
him, and did not know how to oppose this, yet
was determined to oppose it. It would not be
Elle's fault if she was separated from him.
What was he to do to keep hold of her, to prevent
the severance ? He was grieved at himself
that this was the foremost subject in his mind at
his grandparents' grave. But how could he
help it? and they, if they were permitted to
see, if they knew anything about it, they would
understand ; John felt that if they perceived him
standing thus over their last resting-place, as

we instinctively feel that those whom we have
lost must do, that they would not resent the
perturbation of his mind or think that it meant
neglect or forgetfulness, but would understand
entirely and without mistake ; for have they not
larger, other eyes than ours?' After awhile,
he went away and took a little turn among the
graves by himself, Elle all this time stooping
over the spot, and picking off every leaf that
marred the perfection of the flowers. When he
returned he put his hand softly upon her arm,
and called her to come away.

 Elle,' he said, ' I have something more on my
mind than these graves. They are not there.
They would not like me to give myself up to it
as if they were there.'

No, Jack,' she said.

Therefore they would not blame me, and
you shouldn't, for what I am going to say. It
was you I was thinking of, Elle. It is you that
mean home to me, it appears, and all that I care
for. Elle, there are other ways of thinking at
the rectory: they will not let it be if they can
help it.'

She trembled a little, and asked, softly,

What will they not let be. Jack f

Oh, EUy, that I should look to you so for
sympathy ; that you should be my dear friend ;
that you should be Elle to me. You allow me
to say it, but they wouldn't. And what am 1
to do without you f he said, in full sincerity and
alarm. He did not at all think of her in the
matter, which perhaps was natural enough.

Don't think of that, Jack. Call me what you
have always called me, and think of me as you
have always thought. If you give it up as if
you were frightened, that may put what you
say into their heads.'

But 1 see the justice of it,' said John. ' You
are not a little girl, but a beautiful young lady.
What right has a fellow like me, without any
recommendations, with nothing in his favour
except being very fond of you, what right have
I to call you Elle ? My judgment agrees with
theirs, though I think it will break my heart.'

I see no occasion for any judgmentjpn the
matter,' said Elle, raising her head with a
certain pride. ' If you think so, I can't help it.
But I've always been allowed to have an opinion
of my own : and since I choose to be your

friend as we have been all our lives, and to call
you Jack  and be EUy to you  let them, if they
have any objections, make them to me.*

How sweet you are and how you look ! like
a guardian angel,' cried poor John, ' but they
will not let that be, either. For they will say I
have no right to appeal to you at all, that I ought
to know better ; that I am a man and have been
about the world, and you are only a girl '

'If you think I am only a girl,' cried Elle,
with great offence, ' it can't be any matter to
you whether I stand by you or not, a thing of so
little account !'

You know that is not what I mean,' said the
boy, with a long-drawn breath that was almost
a sob. He, who was so much older than his
age, felt now what a young, helpless, impotent
being he was before all that force of opposition
and good sense and fact. * I wish,' he cried,
looking at her with a certain fond impatience,
that you were only a girl as you used to be,
with your hair waving upon your shoulders  I
wish you had put off growing up for a few years,
Elle I You are a woman now, and as good as a
queen. And it is right they should keep everything

from you that is not the best. I understand
it quite well, and I agree with it, though
it is against myself.'

Elle flushed and grew pale again while he
was making this speech : and matters had grown
very serious, for there was no telling what in his
excited condition he might say next. She
looked at him for a moment doubtfully, and
then she put her hand on his arm in a way she
had often done when they were boy and girl
together, not to lean upon him, you maybe sure,
which was not at all Elle's way, but to push him
on before her on the way which she had
determined was that he ought to go.

I don't know what is the good of talking
like this,' she said, ' making yourself unhappy
and me too. Wait till somebody objects.
What is the good of going and meeting bother
before it comes? It is time enough to stand on
the defensive when somebody attacks us. You
were always fond of making sure that something
was going to happen : and generally
nothing happened. Do you remember the time
when we upset the ink bottle over Mr. Cattley's
sermon  when you expected for a whole week

we should get into disgrace, and he only laughed
to Aunt Mary about it, and did nothing to us
at all r

I remember about the sermon and the ink-bottle,'
said John, too young, even in the excited
state of his feelings, not to be moved in the
first place to self-defence, 'but I thought it
was '

Ob, never mind what you thought  it came
all right,' cried Elle, with a Httle impatience.
But, as a matter of fact, John could not forget,
though she puzzled him for a moment by that
sudden imputation of causeless forebodings that
it was Elle who had been afraid.

VOL. 11.

CHAPTER XII.

SUSIE.

Susie arrived a few days later, having left
John time, as she believed, to resume his relations
with his old friends, and get himself received
upon such foundations as were practicable in
the change of circumstances. It was a subject
which she and her mother had talked over often
with different opinions. For it was apparent to
both that the question was very doubtful as to
how John going back, no longer a boy, but a
man, no longer an equal in the school-work
which had united him to these friends of youth,
but divorced from all their ways and traditions
in the path of practical life, would be received
by them. Mrs. Sandford had been of
opinion that the bland and patronising woman
who had attempted to fathom her own circumstances
in a ten-minutes' interview, would summarily

drop the young man, who was the son of
a matron in a hospital, and had no standing of
any kind which could place him on a level with
her family. So would the young clergyman.
Clergymen are never indifferent to social inequalities,'
she said. And it was her severe
opinion that the only way to demonstrate to
John the fact of his practical severance from all
those boyish ties was to let him return to
Edgeley and see for himself that kindness
shown to a boy was a very different thing from
friendship accorded to a man.

Mother, you are sending him there to be
wounded and trampled on,' Susie had said : to
which Mrs. Sandford had replied with a smile,
Not if you are right, Susie.'

But, nevertheless, this was most likely what
the stern woman meant, to prove to him of how
little worth was the friendship upon which
he had built, that sort of amateur motherhood
and sisterhood of the ladies at Edgeley, who had
beguiled his heart in his youth into a faith in
them which his real mother did not believe they
would ever justify. She was not aware, perhaps,
of any taint of jealousy in her own mind, any

o2

remnant of the inevitable wound which she
had shown so little, but which she had still felt
in the days when he had hotly resisted her influence,
and told her she Alas Emily. Mrs.
Sandford had been very magnanimous. She
had not punished John in any way, not even by
a taunt, for that cruel utterance of his youthful
despair ; but perhaps there had lingered in her
heart a tone of vindictiveness towards the lady
who had been so kind to him  so strangely
kind, the mother thought, but whose regard was
no doubt so artificial, so little likely to survive
the pressure of years. She was shilling that
he should find this out, that he should be undeceived.
The blow might be a keen one, but
it was necessary, she said to herself.

Susie was indignant at this intention. She
saw in it a still more cold-blooded aspect than
that which it really bore, and John had no
sooner gone than she felt herself a sort of
accomplice exposing him to a terrible ordeal for
no rational end : for to Susie's softer nature the
dispelling of John's dream, if it should be dispelled,
was in itself an evil, not, as his mother
thought, an advantage. The two days which

she had arranged to stay behind him seemed
long to her, a Hungering delay, in which harm
that she might have prevented was perhaps
being done. She was eager to start, to go to
the succour of the poor boy whose castles in the
air were perhaps cast down by this time, and
his trust betrayed. And why should his dream-castles
have been demolished? They did nobody
any harm, and they kept his heart warm,
Susie said to herself that she would like to have
somebody to believe in, of whom she could
always be sure that they liked and remembered
her. Even if they should never do
her any good, if they did not like her Cough
for any practical advantage, still to believe in
them as poor John had done in his Edgeley
friends, would be a pleasant thing. Susie's life
had not been gay. She was neither discontented
nor did she complain : neither the one nor
other were in her nature ; but she said to herself
that if she had friends like John's friends
she would take good care not to put their
devotion to any severe test. She would not try
them whether they were true or not, but would
believe they were true, and cling to that faith

as long as they took no steps to convince her
of the contrary. Some people think it is best to
know the truth at all hazards. She had no such
disastrous curiosity. She would have been
content to believe.

Susie was very anxious for her brother's first
look, which she thought would tell her more
than he was at all likely to tell in words. If she
found him depressed and subdued she would
know what had happened  that his mother's
policy had been successful, that he was disenchanted,
and his fond illusions gone. But
this was not John's aspect when she sprang
out to meet him as the train arrived, and saw
him waiting on the little platform in the
twilight of the soft evening. How silent it was,
how quiet when the train went shrieking on
into the night, and the brief bustle was over !
The air, almost dark, seemed infinite, stretching
away into the unseen across the common, full of
the breadth and freshness of the sky, and space
unbroken for miles by any obstacle. She felt
the charm of the wide atmosphere, the soft enlargement
of the darkening world about, and
the freshness and dewy look of John's eyes,.

with a sensation of refreshment and relief. He
was not disenchanted at least, whatever had
happened to him. He took her home, not
saying very much, feeling the excitement and
surprise of the home-coming in a way which
Susie, who knew nothing about it, and to whom
any house in the village was the same as any
other, could not possibly feel it. John had been
very busy re-establishing the little old house
Which had been so dear. The two old chairs
had been brought from the rectory, Elle herself
accompanying them, and he and she together
had reverently put them back in their
old place. It looked exactly as it had done
when the old people left it, as John led his
sister over the threshold. Elle and he had gone
over this little scene in anticipation with great
feeling.

Jack, you will say to her, " Welcome home :"
and when she looks round and sees everything
as it always was '

But she never knew it in the old time,' John
felt bound to say against his 411.

 Her heart will tell her,' said Elle, with high
conviction : and they looked round together and

felt for Susie  so much more than it was possible
Susie could feel.

He carried out this little programme quite
simply and fully with the greatest faithfulness.
He kissed her as he led her in, and said,
Susie dear, welcome home.'
Home,' she said, with a little start, ' is this
where you used to live V

It is where we all used to live. It is our
home, where we always were. These are
grandfather's and grandmother's chairs on each
side of the fire. Most of the things here belonged
to them. We have got no home to
speak of anywhere else. Susie, I am always
going to keep it, as I intended. It shall always
be home to come back to when we please.'

Susie looked round with astonished eyes  not
with so much emotion as they had hoped, but
with much astonishment and some pleasure, and
perhaps at the bottom of her heart a little
amusement at the impressive way in which she
was introduced into the little parlour, which did
not look anything very remarkable. But presently
her eye was caught by something she,
too, remembered ; some old article which had

belonged to the old people even in her time,
which brought a flood of associations to her
heart : and she suddenly sat down in one of the
old chairs and cried a little, thinking of
things that were further back than any clear
memory John had. How Elle had divined, he
said to himself! Her heart had told her, as Elle
said I To find how right Elle was, gave John
almost more pleasure than to feel that Susie
appreciated what he had done.

They had taken their first meal together, and
she had gone upstairs to arrange her ' things,'
that first necessity for a woman who has not a
maid to do it for her, leaving John sitting in
grave but wistful satisfaction in his familiar
place. He had been very busy for two days
past and was glad to sit still and rest and he
was happy, yet sad in a luxurious delicious
melancholy such as is the atmosphere and background
of life at a certain stage. He felt a little
pang as he looked at the two old chairs, and
half regretted for them that they had been
brought away out of EUy's room, and felt for
himself that they had a charm, a sort of perfume
hanging about them from being so long there,

and wished for Elle to tell this to  not Susie,
though she was the heroine of the evening. He
felt that he wanted to say it to Elle. He
wanted to talk to Elle, to have her there 
which was impossible. He was very fond of his
sister ; but it was Elle he wished to communicate
his thought to, and whom he longed to see
coming in, sitting down  which, as has been
said, was impossible. She had been a great
deal with him during these preparations cf his,
helping him with everything, suggesting various
little improvements, remembering even he took
pleasure in thinking, almost better than he did,
how all the things had been. He was sorry those
busy days were over  and that she would
come no more. But the melancholy of this
thought was tempered by the certainty that she
must come to see Susie, that Susie being here
he would have chances of seeing her continually
more easily and sweetly than if he had been
himself going to the rectory, Avhere Percy
for one was not very cordial. All this was
going through his mind when he heard the
outer door, an innocent village door which
opened from outside, pushed open, and someone

enter. Then Percy's voice said, *May I
come in V with a certain solemnity, John was
chilled a little in the fulness of his satisfaction by
Percy's voice.

So you really got in, and got everything
done in time,' said Percy, * and has Miss Sandford
come ? It was clever of you to get it done
in time. How you managed with the tradespeople,
I don't know.'

I was my own tradespeople,' said John, with
a laugh. ' We have got the use of our hands,
we engineers : and Elle,' he added, unguardedly,
in the warmth of the moment, * helped me so
much : it is more credit to Elle than to me.'

Before John had ended this speech he had
seen how injudicious it was, and accordingly the
second time stammered a little and hesitated
upon Elle's name.

Really,' said Percy, with a darkening brow.
And then he added, ' Sandford, I hope you
won't take it amiss : but that was just what I
wanted to speak to you about.'

To speak to me about?' said John, with an
air of astonishment : but as a matter of fact he
as not surprised. He had been sure all the

time, even when most happy and at his ease,
that this would come.

Yes : you know,' said Percy, evidently not
finding his errand an easy one, nov he had
plunged into it: 'we were all children together.
Jack.'

Yes, indeed. T am not likely to forget that ;
I shall have forgotten everything before I forget
that,' cried John.

And we've always been very good friends 
I am sure not one of us wishes anything different
 the best of friends.'

You have all been the best of friends to me,'
said John, with warmth, ' up to this time I
haven't had much in my power : but if there

should ever come a day ' The earnestness

with which he spoke made John's eyes glisten.
He felt his heart swell and glow with affection
and every kindly feeling. And yet he knew
very well that he was going to receive a blow.

No need to think of that,' said Percy, with
a little wave of his hand, ' though indeed with
the church and the gentry going down as they
seem to be in these advancing times, and the
people coming up '

John was vaguely wounded by this. To be
called of the people is not delightful to anyone
who feels himself at all above the general
crowd. Some visionaries may Hke it, but better
in their own mouths than in those of others.
Our young man was no democrat : and he felt
himself a better man than Percy, notwithstanding
his long coat.

'You may be able to save all our lives one
time or other. You may save us from the
violence of the mob, like the French Revolution,
don't you know?'

I am not a Radical,' said John. * I might require
to be saved from the mob as well as you.'

Oh, not with the same reason,' said the
curate, with an air that was insufferable. John
felt that presently he might be moved to pitch
the friend of his youth out of window, notwithstanding
Elle and notwithstanding the clerical
coat. ' Let us cling at least to the idea that you
would save us. But, I say, look here  don't
you know '

It had become very embarrassing indeed, and
difficult to can out, while John sat and looked
at him seriously and attentively, not giving any
assistance whatever.

Oh, I say,' Percy repeated, ' don't you know ?
though we all think so highly of you, and wish
you every success  oh, yes, we do, all of us, as
much as anyone can. But, Jack, now don't be
offended. Just call your good sense to your
aid, and you will see the reason in it. It is
about Elle. Most likely you know beforehand
what I want to say.'

No, not I,' said John, all the meaning having
arbitrarily disappeared from his face : and for a
moment Percy, who was not so hard-hearted ashe
made himself appear, sat before him, a very
awkward mortal, endeavouring to clear his
throat and say what he had come to say.

In the midst of this, quite suddenly the door
opened and a miracle happened, one of those that
go on happening every day, and which will continue
to happen to the end of time. It was a
miracle, yet it was a very simple fact. The door
opened, and light-footed in her slippers, which she
had gone to get, and a pretty dress, which it had
seemed to her expedient to put on at the same
time, in honour of John and his new-old house,
Susie suddenly appeared. She was twenty-six,
but she looked much younger, she looked

any age that may be supposed the perfect age.
Her pretty complexion was as sweet and fresh
as eighteen ; but in her eyes there was something
more, a sweetness of understanding and gentle
thought to which eighteen rarely attains. Her
fair hair was not so carefully arranged as usual,
and frisked a little about her temples. She
came in vith that air of perfect health, perfect
content and harmony, which made her very
appearance in the hospital so healing and tranquillising,
her eyes very clear and kind, always
with a smile latent in them, even when her
mouth was grave. She came in with the air of
having something to say, something that was
upon her lips, but made an instant's pause at
the unexpected sight of a stranger whom she
had never seen before.

That stranger, all embarrassed, startled beyond
measure, feeling as if an angel had suddenly
come in to recall him to a sense of the unfriendliness,
the Tenderness of what he was doing,
gasped and rose from his chair and stood before
her, in every line of his person and every feature
of his face submissively asking pardon, though
he could not understand how, and she had not

the slightest idea why. Had Susie been indeed
that angel passing by, coming in to ask what
unseemly words were these that were about to be
said, the young man could not have been more
confounded. He stood for a moment like a
culprit at the bar, while she paused with a
slightly startled look, which brought just a little
colour, and then a smile.

I beg your pardon,' she said. ' I thought
there was no one here.' And ' I beg your
pardon,' cried he, with far more emphasis and
meaning. There was indeed so much emphasis
in it that Susie's smile ran into a little laugh,
and she said to her brother : ' Shall I go
away V

' No,' said John, putting a chair for her. He
was a little stern, thinking still of the words that
had not been said.

Jack,' said Percy, * won't you introduce me
to your sister V There was nothing but humility
and submission in his tone, a change which was
almost ludicrous in its completeness. But he
had the clerical habit of explaining himself, of
making amiable advances, which stood him instead
in the present emergency. * I am one of

his oldest friends,' lie said, 'and I hope you're
heard of me, Miss Sandford. I'm Percy. If
Jack hasn't been a traitor to the old days, I
make bold to believe that you must have heard
of me.'

I have heard of you, often,' said Susie, a
little puzzled. She perceived now that the
conversation which she had interrupted had not
been of so affectionate a kind as might have
been inferred from this address ; and she felt
that the character of it had been entirely
changed by her appearance  a suggestion
which was not unpleasant. * I have heard so
much of everything at Edgeley/ she continued,
'that I feel as if, though I have never been here
before, I was coming home.'

I hope,' said Percy, ' that we shall succeed
in strengthening the impression. I am very
sure we shall try our best.' And with that he
sat down again with all the mild persistence of
his profession, as if he meant to remain there for
the rest of his life.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIII.

A NEW INFLUENCE.

Percy, did you talk to John V

Ob, yes. I talked to him a great deal,' said
Percy, without meeting his aunt's anxious eye.

But about the one subject ? About '

Most subjects in earth and heaven.' He
paused a little, and then resumed with embarrassment.
' If you mean about EUy, Aunt Mary
I  I didn't. That's the fact. His sister was

there, and somehow it didn't seem suitable,'

the young man said.

Of course his sister was there. You knew
she was expected : and of course you could not
speak before her : but surely there were
opportunities.'

I suppose so,' said Percy, ' but I didn't, that
is all that can be said.'

Your courage failed you at the last ? Well,
I don't wonder : indeed I like you better for it,'
said Mrs. Egerton. ' I did you injustice, my
dear boy. I thought you rather liked the commission.
That just proves how wrong we are
in forming hasty judgments.' Percy accepted
this conclusion without wincing, and, after a
moment of reflection, his aunt added, ' I am
afraid it will have to be done, though, and who
is to do it ? Your father is no good, and, as for me,
I cannot trust myself. I wonder if Mr. Cattley
but then Mr. Cattley is very fond of Jack.'

He is much fonder of you, Aunt Mary.'

Don't put it in that ridiculous way. He hasa
very strong friendship for me. Poor Mr.
Cattley I I am very glad he is going : and yet
if I were to ask him to do such a thing '

Of course he would do it. He has always
done everything you told him.'

You always go so much too far in everything,
you boys. I am sure he would try to doit,
but it would be very hard upon him. Percy,
don't you think you might get up your courage
for another time '] '

It isn't the courage he said. And then

after a moment :  ' After all, what's the use T
He's not going to stay here all his life, and
nothing can happen in a fortnight or so. Can't
YOU let it swing V

Nothing can happen in a fortnight or so !
Why, it is just the time in which everything
may happen. If he were settled here it would
not be half so dangerous, there would seem no
hurry then : whereas in a fortnight ! we may have
Elle engaged to him before we know where weare.'


Come now, Aunt Mary. Poor Jack is nobody
: that is not his fault : but he's an honourable
fellow, nobody can say anything against
his honour. He couldn't behave in an ungentlemanly
way.'

What has that to do with it V said Mrs.
Egerton, exasperated. ' Honourable ! why, in
ten years, with a good profession and getting
on so well, he may be a great match.'

Then why, in the name of heaven Oh,

I'm speaking from your point of view. To me
it would be horrid, anyhow  that fellow !  but
if you think so '

I don't want Elle to wait ten years,' said

Mrs. Egerton. ' The longer a girl like Elle
waits, the more fastidious she grows. If she
does not marry till thirty, she will probably
never marry at all.'

She will probably not have the chance,' Percy
remarked.

That is all you know. You are all brutal on
that question, you men. As if to have a chance
was all that was necessary, and every woman was
on the watch to obtain such an honour and
glory.' Having freed her mind in this way,
Mrs. Egerton resumed :  ' What is the sister
like ? Is she common ? Is she of the hospital-nurse
or of the shop-girl type ? Does he seem
fond of her ? Her appearance might do Elle
good, perhaps.'

Shop-girl!' said Percy to himself. He grew
pale with a sort of holy horror. ' You women
are dreadful,' he said. * Talk of being brutal I 1
don't know any angels myself, but I should
think she would be more like that type.'

Indeed !' Mrs. Egerton said, and stopped
and stared at him, a proceeding of which Percy
showed his dislike by turning, if not his back,
which would have been uncivil, at least the

side of his clerical coat, and shaven cheek, to his
relation's eye. This made the gaze of scrutiny
which she directed towards him innocuous, but
raised her suspicions all the more. * Dear me,*
she said,  this is a sudden enthusiasm. I was not
at all prepared for it. The mother was a strike
woman. What do you take for the
angelic type, Percy, if I may ask f

The type of Miss Sandford,' said Percy : * I
don't mean anything silly.' He spoke with an
impatience which was not habitual, for Percy
was one of those who think it the fault of the
other people when he is not immediately understood.
' You had better go and see her for
yourself  indeed, good manners demand that
you should do so, and show yourself civil, you
and Elle too.'

Mrs. Egerton looked at him for a moment
not sure whether she ought to be angry : but
policy and good humour won the day, and she
laughed.

'You lay down my duty for me very distinctly,'
she said. ' You forget that my manners
were formed before *you were born. But
1 shall certainly go and see Miss Sandford 

brought up among sick people and in hospital
duties as she has been, a little change must be
important for her.'

Women perhaps have the gift of showing a
muffled claw like this better than men. Percy
was exasperated to have the stranger spoken
of as a hospital nurse, but he had not an opening
to say a word.

Poor thing,' Mrs. Egerton added, ' it must bea
trying life. I daresay the mere sight of
people who have nothing the matter with them
will do her good. Certainly I shall go. Oh,
Mr. Cattley,' said she, as the curate opened the
door, * you have just come in time. I gave
Percy a commission last night which he has not
been able to carry out. Perhaps I might ask
you '

You know,' said Mr. Cattley, ' that what you
wish is a law to me.'

'Not that,' she said, with a faint, rising
colour, ' but this is a very delicate matter, out of
the ordinary. It is to prevent further unhappiness:
it is for the real good of two young
creatures, who are almost as dear to you, I believe,
as they are to me.'

What is it V he said. Mr. Cattley was a
Httle grey by nature, with no perceptible colour,
but he warmed slightly with the interest of this
mysterious office which was about to be conferred
upon him.

'It is about John and Elle,' Mrs. Egerton
said.

What,' cried the curate, ' have they V

with a gleam of animation, which faded, however,
when he saw that his oracle shook her
head ; but it was very evident which way Mr.
Cattley's sympathies went.

I don't know if I can trust you, after all. Mr.
Cattley, you know Jack  though he is a charming
boy, and was almost like one of ourselves as
long as he was living here  still he is not in the
same position, is he ? Not perhaps quite so well
educated and all that  not  a gentleman, as
people say.'

Yes, I am sure he is a gentleman,' said Mr.
Cattley, quietly.

In heart and in manners, oh yes. He is very
nice ; he is full of good impulses, and his
manners, for his position, are very nice. But,
Mr. Cattley, there is something more  really,

you must acknowledge something more is
necessary.'

For what V he said.

At this Mrs. Egerton's middle-aged countenance
was touched with a little colour, for
perhaps in consequence of the curate's boundless
admiration for her, she stood a little in awe
of him, and doubtless avoided in his presence
the expression of all sentiments that might
seem to him unworthy. She hesitated for a
moment.

'Mr. Cattley,' she said. 'I must first explain.
These two are at a dangerous age to be such
great friends. With boy and girl that sort of
sentiment is so apt to glide into  a warmer
feeling.'

Yes, I know ; and not only with boy and
girl.'

Well, some people condemn all friendship
between men and women on that account ; but

of course at their age it is doubly Now,

Mr. Cattley, you understand. With the greatest
regard for John Sandford, one would not, you

know, wish that Elle Her father would

never give his consent.'

I see,' said the curate. * It would not be a
very fine match for her, indeed. I should
prefer a young duke.'

Don't laugh at me. I should not prefer a
young duke : but T should prefer some one a little
above, to some one a little below. Don't you
see ''i I think in the present circumstances you
must feel there is something reasonable in that.'

Quite reasonable,' said Mr. Cattley. ' I
should like Elle to be rich and great  happy,
too.'

Yes, yes ; there is no question of her happiness.
If that were involved, of course I should
not say another word. But at present we have
not to take that into consideration. The only
danger is that both of them might get to think
they are full of poetry and stories, Elle as full
as possible. They might get to think they
were made for each other, without any sufficient
cause even in themselves, and everything
against it  everything ! in the circumstances.'

I see,' Mr. Cattley said again. ' But what
do you suppose I can do V

If you would but speak to Jack ! There is
no one he respects so much. Warn him that

it is not wise for him to see so much of Elle,.
that their old familiarity was only possible when

they were children, that for him to call her

as he does  I am sure you would know exactly
what to say. Percy was to have done it last
night : but he was entirely routed by the
appearance of Jack's sister whom he took

for ' Mrs. Egerton laughed, but continued

with mingled prudence and temerity, for Percy
looked daggers at her, ' who seems to hav
been something in the guardian angel way.'

Mr. Cattley did not take any notice of this,
but he said, meditatively,

'It 'ill be a curious thing for me to do.
And yet perhaps I am the most natural agent.
But I don't know what I shall say to him. It
may be  have you considered that ?  putting
an idea into his head which was not there.'

Oh, I fear the idea is in his head,' said Mrs.
Egerton. ' That idea never fails to get into
their heads. If it was an arrangement everybody
approved, and that we were moving
heaven and earth to bring about, then indeed 
but the moment it becomes undesirable, a
trouble, an annoyance ! I am sure when you

see him, that you will easily find what it is best
to say. And I shall be so grateful,' she cried,
giving him an affectionate glance, *for, Mr.
Cattley, I know you will be very considerate ;
you will say nothing to wound his feelings.'

Nothing more than is necessary. You don't
suppose things like this can be said without
hurting the feelings,' said the curate. * Poor
boy,' he added, after a moment, 'I would do a
great deal to get him his wishes. It seems hard
that I should be the one to say he's not to have
them.'

But you approve ? You see there is nothing
else to be done : you agree with me that it
it would be impossible to let it go on ? I am
sure, whoever else may misconceive my meaning,
you understand,' Mrs. Egerton said, with a
sudden little pressure of her hand upon his arm.

He looked at her with a kind of appeal in his
eyes.

'I think I understand,' he said, 'and I
approve, too, in a kind of way. But you will
be kind ? You will not push it too far V

I hope I am not unkind,' Mrs. Egerton said.

Thus it was that Mr. Cattley Avent, in the

afternoon of the day following Susie's arrival,
to the old house of the Sandfords. He went
somewhat against the grain ; but yet there was
sufficient justice in the commission given him.
He thought with a little sigh how entirely
natural and appropriate it would be that John
should love Eli, and Elle John. If it was so,
they would be delivered at once, in the happiness
and harmony of nature, from all the constraints
which distracted life. He himself had
loved, if he had ever ventured to think so,
amiss. He had given his affections to a woman
entirely out of his sphere, of a different development,
almost of a different generation. Any
idea of marrying her, of a house made bright
by her love, had never been possible. Many
moments of a happiness very sweet, though
always subdued, he had no doubt possessed.
She had been if impossible as a wife, yet his
dearest friend, his frequent companion, and his
years had passed very sweetly by her side.
But if it had chanced to him in his youth, like
John, to love somebody of his own age, somebody
within his reach ! If she had been young,
like Elle, and fancy-free when he was as John l

He sighed to think how many embarrassments,
how many self-denials those two young creatures
would escape in the love which had no complications
in it. And then he recollected, with
a shock, that he was going to put a stop to this
love, that he was going as the accepted
messenger of family pride and importance, of
the difference between the rector's daughter
-and an obscure young man whose pedigree
would not bear examination. Mr. Cattley shook
his head a little and rubbed his eyes ; was it
possible that this was the errand upon which he
was going? He then began to think of the
matter from the other point of view. It was
indeed very natural that it should be thought
undesirable for Elle, who might, as people say,
marry anybody, to have her affections surprised
before she knew anything of the world, or had
seen anyone, by a young man of obscure origin
and uncertain prospects. They were quite
justified in thinking so, quite right, indeed, and
in trying to save her from a connection which
was almost too natural, into which she might be
drawn by the mere force of circumstances, by
the habit of liking John, and the impossibility of

understanding the difference between liking and
love. Yes, he said to himself, Elle must be saved.
She must not be drawn inadvertently into a union
which was too natural, which seemed inevitable,
the expedient of a story. No, no! Elle, and
John, too, must be saved from drifting into that.
He carried on this controversy, which was not
really a controversy, for his heart first took one
side and then the other, and he was the partisan
of both, as he went down the street, mechanically
returning all the salutations made to him.
He said to himself that it was a strange world,
that wherever one turned there was trouble,
things not going right in the battle of life, all
for want of being put in the right way at the
beginning. His sense of all these contradictions
was possibly deepened by the consciousness
which never left him that he was going away.
He was to leave all these people whom he
knew, and whose troubles he understood, and to
leave the way of Use to which he had become
accustomed, and the sweetness of the friendship
which was his, that sweetness in his life which
replaced the wife and children of other men.
Mr. Cattley's heart rebelled a little in spite of

himself. Why had he to go away ? Not by
his own wish entirely. He would have gone on
for ever if they would let him, and nobody
would have been the worse. He was going
away to better himself, so they all said, because
at his age it was right he should be independent
and have a living of his own and settle down.

Settle down! How was he ever to settle
down ? He thought drearily of the new
rectory in which he had already spent a dreary
month or two. And now he had come back to
initiate Percy into his duties, and to take leave
of all he was most used to, and cared for most.
John ! That he should have to interfere with
Jack,  to whom everything was possible,  hein
his middle-aged desolation ! What should
he himself do ? The worst thing would be if he
were ever forced by stress of circumstances to
marry some innocent woman who might be put
in his way, and do her grievous wrong, marrying
for convenience because it would not be
possible for him to live alone. It was John who
ought to interfere, who should take his old tutor
by the shoulders and say to him  What do you
mean by it ? What right have you to yield to

external pressure ia this way and tear yourself
from all you care for in life ? If the tables were
turned on him, either by John or Elle, Mr.
Cattley felt it would be only just : but nevertheless,
holding to his consigne to the last moment,
he went on  to do her bidding dutifully, and
her business, and make an end of any dream
that might be stealing into John's imagination.
Poor John !

Mr. Cattley walked into the parlour which he
knew so well, and where he could not help feeling
the old people must be sitting, waiting to
upbraid him, for conspiring  he who had always
professed to be so proud of the boy  against
Jack's happiness. He did not pay any attention
to what the maid said in answer to his inquuy
for Mr. Sandford, but went in straight, as he
had been accustomed to do, without announcement
or preliminary. And then there occurred
to Mr. Cattley something of the same miraculous
effect which on the evening before had paralysed
Percy. There rose up as he entered, meeting
him with the honest, modest look of a pair of
eyes sincere and sweet, and that tranquil air of
home-dwelling and content which makes an
VOL. II. Q

ordinary room into a sort of palace of the soul 
Susie, not John. He looked at her in great surprise
: for, though he knew that John's sister had
come, he had not realised nor thought of her,
and for the first moment did not even comprehend
that this was she.

'My brother is out,' said Susie. * If you will
sit down, I am sure he will not be long. He
has gone up to the rectory, I think, with some
books.'

To the rectory!' said Mr. Cattley, with a prevision,
which  for the reason that it agreed withall
his wishes, yet went against all his instructions
 made his heart beat  ' I must have met
him on the way had he gone there.'

I am sure he has gone there,' said Susie, ' for
he took some books Miss Spencer had asked for.
He may have gone round some other way.'

Yes, he may have gone round,' said Mr. Cattleyy,
his face growing long, yet his heart stirring
with a sharp, acute sympathy which was almost
painful. And then he said, * You must pardon
me. Miss Sandford, for I am sure I am speaking
to Jack's sister. I should like to wait for him if
you will let me stay.*

Surely,' she said, with that smile in her eyes
-which was always there, resuming her seat : and
the curate sat down by her, with a pleasure in
this novelty, in the old associations turned into
new ones, in the unknown gentle friend who
did not know anything about his perplexities or
his position, but met him on fresh ground with
her pleasant welcoming eyes and tranquillising
presence. He Would wait for Jack : and probably
some new light as to how to treat this
matter might spring up by the way.

q2

CHAPTER XIV.

THE VITA Nova.

John had gone out for no particular reason.
He had nothing to do, which was unusual to
him, and his mind was perturbed and restless.
He was altogether out of son assiette, as the
French say, out of his natural atmosphere, exposed
to thoughts, temptations of all kinds, with
which naturally he had nothing to do. A holiday
is not always so very good a thing. When the
mind is busy with a delicate piece of engineering,
or with specifications or even estimates, it
has not time to get into mischief. But fancy
when suddenly left blank of all those occupations,
deprived of all preservatives, and left to
face the most supreme of youthful impulses
without any defence at all, is in a bad way.
John did what of course is the very worst thing

he could possibly have done. He wandered
about all day, taking long walks, and turning
over and over in his bewildered brain the same
subject  and that subject was Elle. What
else ? the only thing that he ought not to have
thought about.

He should not have done so  that was too
certain. When he felt it coming on, when she
jumped into his mind like that, without rhyme
or reason, he ought to have shut the door
sternly against her, he ought to have betaken
himself to some matter of professional difficulty
of the hardest possible sort; he should have
devoted himself to the Euphrates Canal or the
St. Goddard Tunnel. Or if he had wanted
something nearer home there was the great subject
which had already occupied him for years,
and which we may call the drainage of the
Thames valley  which is a thing waiting to be
done, and by which some engineer, and perhaps
John, might yet distinguish himself. He was
aware that he ought to do this, but he did not.
Instead of engaging in a course of thought
which would have been both laudable and useful,
he thought of Elle and nothing else  nothing

but Elle, as he walked for hours across the common
and to every village in the neighbourhood.
Susie, who had not fathomed his difficulties,,
thought these long walks very good for him.
She could not herself walk so far, but she had
always heard that exercise was the first necessity
for a man, so that, instead of opposing, as she
ought to have done, she encouraged him for the
good of his health, and because his holidays
would soon be over, to walk and think  of Elle
though she did not know anything of this
latter exercise.

Percy's interrupted remonstrances of the
previous night, which he had understood well
enough, as he had foreseen all the time that
they were coming, quickened to an almost incalculable
extent the current of John's thoughts.
It gave them a swing and energy which they
had never had before. He had known very well
it was coming! From the beginning he had
been aware that things could not go on on this
present footing, that some change there must
be ; he had foreseen it dimly when Percy said
my sister,' that the familiar name, the child's
name, might not be given over to John's lips.

How well he had perceived that I He had even,
as he now remembered, made an effort to obey.
He had tried to set things straight, to call her Miss
Spencer, to treat the old childish intimacy as a
thing of the past, if Elle would have allowed it
to be so. But she had not allowed it ; she would
not suffer it ; and now ? What was to be done ?
for something would have to be done. Even if
there were no Percy in the world, no watchful
aunt, all this would have to be altered somehow.
The course of their history could not go on as
it was going now. His thoughts quickened as
lie pushed on and on for many a flying mile.
He walked, not seeing where he went, the landscape
spinning past him as if he were travelling
in an express train. Things could not go on as
they were going now. Either all this whirling
world of passion and excitement must go back
and be stilled and relapse into the former calm,
the easy boy and girl friendship, that relation
which was entirely of the past : or else  what
else ? What was the alternative ? There was
an alternative ; but even to himself it was difficult
to put it into words.

This was what passed while Susie thought

that he was taking exercise for his health and
to take advantage of being in the country.
When he came in he brought the scent of the
fresh air with him, and a glow as of vigour and
wholesome exertion on his face, the rapidity
of his movements, and the contact of the keen,
sweet air keeping him from all appearance of
being sicklied o'er with thought  though no
philosopher could Have thought more deeply
or sought more diligently a solution of any
problem. This was how he had been engaged
on the day when Mr. Cattley came to set matters
right. He had, indeed, taken with him the
books which Elle wanted, which he had to carry
to the rectory for her, but he carried them first
for miles along the country roads, always busy
with that problem which he had to solve ; and
in all likelihood would have left them at the
rectory as he returned home without so much asa
glimpse of Elle. For, as a matter of fact, at
the time when her relatives were most alarmed,
and when the course of events seemed to be
most whirling and rapid, John had seen less and
less of Elle. They had both taken fright at the
same moment  a mutual terror had seized upon

there ; they had begun to avoid instead of seeking
each other  he walking miles about on his
way to the rectory to leave those books for her,
she restricting herself to the most limited circuit
that she might not encounter him.

Mrs. Egerton was seated in her room, which
commanded the gate of the rectory, and in
fact of the village street, waiting for Mr. Cattley
to come back, and tell her how he had sped ;
and Mr. Cattley in John Sandford's house was
sitting with a sort of vague solace and consolation
in the company of the gentle young woman
who knew nothing about him, except that
he was her brother's friend, waiting for John.
The afternoon was a little heavy, as afternoons
in the summer often are. It had been raining
all the morning, and the air was warm and damp,
and the atmosphere oppressive. EUy, who had
spent the day chiefly at home, taking her
walk round and round the garden, lingering
for a long time under the old pear-tree, had
been seized at last by one of those fits of impatience
which so often come upon us in a moment,
notifying the precautions of many days.
She felt as if there was no air, and that a run

across the common to the cottage of one of
her pensioners would deliver her from the
stifling of this oppressed and breathless
state. She knew a way amongst the gorse, a
wild little track over the moor and heather,
which nobody but herself and the village
children ever used. And she would not, she
said to herself, be half-an-hour gone. She
seized upon her little basket, which stood on the
hall table, all nicely packed with certain little
matters which made her a welcome visitor ; and
so went out, nobody seeing her, if anybody had
thought of remarking. But, indeed, it was not
for Elle, but Mr. Cattley that Mrs. Egerton was
on the watch, and no one else took any notice
of the goings and comings of the daughter of
the house. She skimmed along as light as a
bird, until she got among the gorse bushes, half
ablaze with their yellow blossoms, filling the
numerous bees with a sweet intoxication and
the air with a honeyed balm ; and there Elle
lingered, her basket hanging from her hand,
her head drooping, her mind full of thought,
which was half troublous and half sweet. She
felt the crisis, too, in every vein, but not as

John felt it. The fears, the tribulations, the
doubts of that moment were not for her. Her
honor* could never be called in question. No
one could think of her as having betrayed any
trust placed in her. Her brain was thrilling
with a suppressed excitement and wonder as to
the next step in this wonderful Httle drama of
which she was the heroine. And she was aware
that there would be blame : she was aware
that there would be a struggle ; but she was in
no ways afraid of either one or the other.
The commotion of the great new thing, the
revolution which seemed to be imminent, the
mingled reluctance and eagerness, the hesitation
and the longing, made disturbance enough
in her girlish breast.

The mossy undergrowth, so luxurious and
soft, was wet with the morning's rain, and
yielded in all its velvet inequalities and cushions
of brilliant verdure, to her feet, which made no
sound. Neither did that of the other, who was
threading the same maze, coming towards her
with the books under his arm, making his way
ten miles round to the rectory, unconscious how
near he was to the object of his thoughts.

When they came suddenly in sight of each
other round the great headland of the furze
bush, one of the giants of the common, all keen
prickles and honey flowers, Elle nearly dropped
her basket and John let fall his books. He
had to stoop to gather them up as he took
off his hat : but before even this their looks
had leaped to each other and met and made
all clear  the fright, the panic, the heavenly
content and delight flashed from one to the
other. What more could words say And
then, when the books were collected and the
basket held fast, there was a pause.

I didn't know you would be passing here,'
said Elle, with an unconscious excuse to herself,
as if something within had suddenly accused
her of coming on purpose to meet one who
was it not so ? she was a little anxious to
avoid.

*No  and I didn't mean it,' said John. He
added, after a moment,  I think it must be fate."

What must be fate ? I am going to Betty
Fairfield's cottage, where I go always every
week.'

I know,' said John, humbly ; ' you are always

going about doing good, whereas I never
think of anyone but myself

This gave Elle strength to laugh, which she
had been too much agitated (which was so
ridiculous I) to be capable of before. ' If you
call it doing good to take old Betty her tea and
sugar ! You never used to call things by such
fine names

I never understood what anything meant in
those old days,' said John, with an ah' of preternatural
seriousness. As a matter of fact, he was
in such a condition of emotion and excitement
that he could scarcely speak.

Oh, Jack ! How can you say such things ?
I think you understood far better than you do
now. You look almost,' said Elle, giving him
a succession of furtive glances, * as if you were
afraid of me. How can you be afraid  of
me ? or make fine speeches about doing good
and that, Jack, to me !'

Elle,' he said all at once, very tremulously,
I am dreadfully unhappy : if I seem strange that
is the cause.'

Unhappy !' she exclaimed, with a Kttle cry of
distress. 'Oh, Jack, why? Tell me!' And

throwing down ber basket sbe caught bis arm
-with her hands, and looked up anxiously into
bis face, ber eyes all set in curves and puckers
of sympathy and disquietude. She forgot even
for the moment all the heart-breaking of this
critical moment and thought only what could bethe
matter. What could she do to comfort him ?
Unhappy was a word of dreadful meaning to
Elle's ear.

The books tumbled once more out of John's
bold : they lay upon the mossy grass amicably in
company with the overturned basket, where old
Betty's little packets of tea and sugar peeped
out as if to inquire what was the cause of all this
commotion. John stooped over the hands that
bad caught his arm, putting down his bead upon
them. His heart was going like one of the
clanging engines with which he was so familiar.
He half forgot that Elle was the cause, in the
necessity be felt to tell ber of his trouble, and
be comforted by her sympathy. And they were so
close that Elle felt the vibration in him and was
half frightened by it, yet anxious only to soothe
him.

Obj what is it ? Tell me, tell me !' she said.

EUy, do YOU remember what I said to you
the first day? ft is all changed between us,
though you thought it need not be. I felt it

then, the first day. I had no right Do they

think I don't know that as well as they do ? I
have no right. And yet I can't give you up,
and go away, and hear of you marrying someone
else, and having nothing more to do with
me. It's not possible, it's not possible !  I can't,
EUy, let you go and give you up, and be nothing
more to you, nor you to me. Elle ! don't say
you want me to do that.'

He was half leaning his weight upon her,
quite unconsciously making her slight figure
sway and tremble.

Jack,' she said, her voice trembling too. ' Is
there nothing else that makes you unhappy but
only about you and me V

Isn't that enough V he said, with something
of the petulance of passionate feeling, raising his
head to look her indignantly in her face.

Enough for trouble,' said Elle, shaking her
head ; ' but unhappy is a dreadful word.'

Xot so dreadful,' said he, looking at her, not
as if she were the arbiter of fate, but with that

intense desire for her sympathy which seemed
now his first feeling. * Not half so dreadful as if
1 have to give up and go away V

'And who is there,' said Elle, on her side,
with a little glow of indignation too, * that can
make you give up and go away f

Then they stood for a moment and looked at
each other, far too much in earnest and too
serious to think of confusion, or blushes, or any
of the commonplaces of love-making. At last
he said, taking her hands,

No one, Elle, if you don't '

< You know,' she said, still indignantly, ' that
I shan't. Why should you give up and go
away V

Because I am not good enough for you, Elle.
That's all quite true, not half good enough.'

Of course,' she said, ' you have not any
money. Jack. But what does that matter?
You will have some, some day. We can wait.
That is nothing to be unhappy about, anyhow.'

There is to me, and there is to them. I'd
like you to have everything, Elle ; do you think
I could Hve to bring you to poverty ? It wrings
my heart to think of it ; that you, who are a lady

born, and are too good for a prince, should come
to poverty through me

Jack,' said Elle, in that mature and elder-sisterly
way with which she had always taken
the charge of him ; ' if you can't bear to leave
me and go away, and yet can't bear to keep me
and being me to poverty, what is to be done ?
You will have to bear either one or the other,
so far as I can see.'

It was not perhaps the right moment to
laugh: but it is difficult to regulate that
sense of the ridiculous, which is one comfort
in all our troubles. Something in the
sight of John's solemn face, so troubled and
serious in the clutch of this dilemma, overcame
Elle in her nervous excitement and she
burst into a wild peal of laughter  which rang
over all the damp, sweet wilderness that had
become the Garden of Eden of this primitive
natural pair.

By-and-by, they gathered up the basket and
the books, and took the tea and sugar to Betty
Fairfield, who had been grumbling that Miss Elle
was so late, and did not hesitate to tell her so.
And then they went back again, hungering across

VOL. II. E

the common, winding their devious way among
the great furze-bushes which caught at them
as they passed with prickles that left marks of
dew and a breath of honey ; and so very slowly
walked back again to Edgeley, the rectory and
the world, from which heaven knows they had
gone far enough afield. They had of course a
thousand things to say, a thousand, and a thousand
more ; and lost themselves in that fairyland
which by times is near to all of us at every
age, but nearest of all at the age of Elle
and John. But when no further delay was
possible, the sun sinking in the skies, signs of
home-going and evening rest penetrating even
to their charmed senses, they reached at last the
edge of the common, and saw before them the
everyday existence which they had forgotten,
they both awoke from their dream, and standing
still for one awful moment looked each other in
the face. Oh, it was all easy enough between
themselves, delightfully easy, needing no troublous
explanations, the very course of nature.
But beyond that enchanted common, and the
gorse bushes with their prickles ! They stood
and faltered, and Elle, who had been the

bravest, felt now for the first time her heart
sink to her shoes. John's face set into that
sternness which belongs to a forlorn hope. He
caught Elle's hand and drew it through his
arm.

We must be honest, whatever else,' he said.
Come and let us have it out at once.'

Oh, Jack !' cried the other culprit. They
were no longer the enchanted prince and princess.
Aunt Mary's face, severe as fate already,
shone terrible upon them from the window, and
there was no escape.

S2

CHAPTER XV.

A FAMILY CONCLAVE.

'Never, never, never!' cried Mrs. Egerton.
She was red with excitement and wrath. Her
matronly presence, generally so dignified and
friendly and calm, grew into that of an angry
Juno, swelling and expanding in indignation
and resentment till the passion seemed to fill the
room. And this all the more that no one shared,
or at least appeared to share, her agitation.
John stood before her humble enough, red too,
with pain and mortification, yet not giving
way ; a culprit, but defending himself. Elle
stood at the back of her aunt's chair, astonished,
not sufficiently recovered from her surprise
at her reception to have yet taken her part in
the controversy. The two other persons present
were Percy and Mr. Cattley, who had both

"been there when the lovers, in the flush of their
first happiness and pain, with all the solemnity
the occasion demanded, came in to make their
confession. Percy, at least, it might be supposed,
would have been on his aunt's side : but, instead
of standing by her as he ought, he had turned his
back upon her and stood gazing out of the T\nn-
dow at nothing, with a degree of trouble and
embarrassment in every line of that back which
would have awakened a thousand apprehensions
in the bosom of Aunt Mary, had she at that
moment had any eyes for him, or been aware of
anything except the demand just made upon
her, which had carried her altogether out of herself.


Mr. Cattley sat near her, vith his eyes
cast down and a very serious face, twiddhng
his thumbs with great gravity. It is not to
be supposed that intimate as he was, and having
been so long a constant visitor at the rectory,
he had not seen Mrs. Egerton angry before.
But it was a sight he did not like, and especially
the present cause of her anger was distressful
to him. He had just come from Susie, and the
atmosphere of peace which was around her,

and he was fond of John, and his heart rebelled
against this summary denial of a young love,
which was a thing he respected from the bottom
of his heart.

'Never, never, never!' cried Mrs. Egerton,
how can you ask it ? How could you ever think 
you, a boy I have always been so kind to  Too
kind ! I have made you like one of our own

boys. And now you come and ask me for

Who are you, John Sandford? What does anyone
know about you or your family ? No, I am
not saying a word against his grandparents.
They were dear old people and I was very fond

of them, but not, not And they would

have been as indignant as I am. What ! John,,
their boy, to put himself on the same level, and
think  actually think  that he would be accepted
by the rector's daughter ! Oh, Jack ! I
never expected anything of the kind from you.'

'I feel all that,' said John, 'I know it all.
What you say is quite true.'

It is a fine thing to say that  when you come
and do it all the same. Who are you, to propose
for Elle ? What do we know about you, or your
means, or your family.'

Upon this Elle started from the shelter of Mrs.
Egerton's chair.

His family I' she said, as all girls do in the
same circumstances. 'We know himself: and
that is of more consequence than all the families
in the world.'

I say, Elle, shut up,' said her brother, turning
half round.

Mrs. Egerton turned to him who offered this
succour with eagerness.

Percy understands,' she said, ' he has more
interest in it than anyone except myself, and he
knows the world and that such things can't be.
They can't be. Ask anybody. Ask your own

connections. Jack; ask Mr. Cattley.' She

made a little pause before she said this, and
gave a glance at the curate seated there with
downcast eyes. Her voice faltered a little, but
not with trouble this time. It was a sort of half
smile which fluttered across the current of her
speech. ' He is romantic,' she said, ' but even
he Avill tell you such connections can't be.'

I will not shut up,' said Elle, ' I am the
person most interested. If you send Jack away,
if he is such a fool,'  something in the freedom

of sisterhood was still in her feelings towards
her lover. ' If you get the better of him, if you
bully him or over-persuade him to go away, who
is it that will suffer ? Not you, Aunt Mary, nor
Percy, nor anybody but me. Jack and I have
always been the two who stood together,' cried
the girl, the tears glistening in her eyes like
dew under sunshine. ' You know, Mr. Cattley !
The others went away, they fell into their
mannish, stupid Oxford ways, but Jack and I
have always stood fast. Jack ! if you let them

master you, if you let them send you away '

She raised her hand, clenched into a small,
rosy, but not powerful fist, threatening fate in
general, and the evil ways of the world. Love
had only come, in Elle's mind, to strengthen the
partnership, the comradeship that existed before.
If he could be driven to desert her, if he could
be such a fool ! She could not help taking the
tone still of the one girl among these boys, the
girl whose standard of what was right and true
was more absolute than theirs  less modified by
possibility or circumstance  and who flamed
with instant wrath upon any who would betray
or fall away from that uncompromising rule.

My dear Elle,' said Mr. Cattley, ' that's a very
different matter. That was when you were at
school.'

To be sure,' said Mrs. Egerton : ' and Jack
was a boy who might have been anyone's companion.
Oh, so he is now, do you think I doubt
that ? But, when boys and girls grow up, other
questions come in. You can only marry in your
own class. It is no rule of mine : it is a settled
principle. Nothing but trouble ever comes of it
when you marry out of your own sphere.'

John had borne all the discussion well. He
had stood firmly enough, not shrinking, while he
was torn to pieces and defended and defied.
Now he spoke.

Perhaps I am wrong,' he said, * but all that
one reads and sees seems to show that for a
settled principle that's not so strong as it once
was. If a man is well off, people make a
difference.'

If you mean to say that I am thinking of

a mercenary marriage for Elle ' said Mrs.

Egerton.

John took no notice of this interruption. He
went on with what he was saying.

Now, I mean to be well off,' he said. ' I am
doing well already, and I mean to get on.
What does it matter what my grandfather was,
if I am able to live as gentlemen do, and to think
as gentlemen do, and to maintain  those who
belong to me.' He would not say ' my wife  '
but he held his head high, as if with the pride of
having done so, and looked at Elle ; and one
quick, bright flash of happiness and consciousness
went over both faces at the same moment.
'I am only an engineer,' he said, 'but it's a
fine profession, and when one succeeds one
grows rich. And I mean to succeed. My
grandfather was not one to be ashamed of, whatever
he was. And if it is said that I'm not a
gentleman,' said John, with another darker flush
of self-assertion, ' it's an insult to Mr. Cattley,
and even to this house where I have been
allowed to come, and where such an idea was
never hinted at before.'

Oh, Jack !' cried Mrs. Egerton horrified, clasping
her hands in deprecation. * 1 never said that.
T never thought it. It is only that you are not
in the same sphere.'

Would you say so if I were at the head of

my firm V said John, ' if I were making thousands
a year ; if I had works going on all over
the world? I shall be if youT\dll give me time.
Would you say then that I was not of the same
sphere V

Yes,' said Elle, quick as lightning, taking the
words with fine scorn out of her aunt's mouth ;
for, of course, it would not be Hkely then that
you would come to a poor little "village to ask
for a country girl like me.'

Percy had been standing all this time with his
back to the belligerents, looking fixedly out of
the window. His back was as uncertain and
embarrassed a back as ever man had. It gave
his aunt no support at all. There was something
in the aspect of his shoulders shrugged up to his
ears, and his elbows sunk with the plunging of
his hands into his pockets, that took all courage
out of her. Percy, who had been so much more
strenuous on this question than Aunt Mary herself,
who had undertaken to speak to John!
And now, here he stood, taking no notice, gazing
out of the window ! When it came to this point,
however, he turned round, not looking at anyone,
his eyebrows pulled down over his eyes.

 I say,' he remarked, slowly, ' what is the
good of all this now ? It's gone too far to be
stopped like this. You should have made an
end of it long ago. I warned you when he came
first. You had no call to have him here. It was
folly to begin with, and it's nonsense now. You
wouldn't let him marry Elle if he could, and he
couldn't if you did let him. What's the good of
going on? It's all true that both of you saj-.
If he was rich enough you'd have him like a
shot. But you can't have him now, and he
knows it, and so do we all. Why, even my
father would make a stand. It's a pity they've
had this talk, but it can't be helped now. The
best thing for him to do is to go right away.'

Away !' cried Elle and John in a breath,
making a simultaneous step towards each other.
Percy was the little one of the family. He was
much shorter than John, and even than Elle,
whose female garments and hair upon the top
of her head gave her the advantage. He came
drifting between them, still with his hands in
his pockets.

I like good family and that sort of thug,'
said Percy, * but I never said it required that to

make a gentleman. Handsome is as handsome
does. There are things a fellow can do, and
things he can't do,' said this young man.

I know what he means, Ells,' said John
'and I believe he's right, though I never thought
Percy would stand my friend. I'll go, Mrs.
Egerton : he's right. I'll not even hold Elle
to what she has said  (though I know the sky
will fall before she'll desert me,' he exclaimed,
in an aside). ' But I'll not say another word.

I'll go.'

The ladies looked at him with a Httle grasp of
surprise, Elle standing with her lips apart as if
she had begun to speak and stopped herself,.
Mrs. Egerton drawing a sudden long breath.
She was astonished by the sudden quick turn
this youthful argument had taken. Percy, her
champion, her inspirer even, had seemed to take
the other side, and yet had routed the enemy.
It was altogether amazing and incomprehensible,
almost disappointing ; for Mrs. Egerton
had felt that John Avould take a great deal of
arguing with, and she had some belief in her
own powers. The scene was a curious one.
Percy, standing between the two with his hands

in his pockets and his head down, looked more
as if some wind had blown him there than as if
he had been taking an active part in such a controversy.
Mr. Cattley, still sitting passive near
Mrs. Egerton's table, had now Hated his head and
was looking on, while John, all firm and strong
in his new resolution, had become the centre of
the group.

I thought I might have had a week more,'
said John, with a touch of pathos which went
to the hearts of both the ladies, ' after all these
years! But I won't, Elle. I won't waste
another moment. What do I want with holidays
when there's you at the end ? Mrs.
Egerton, good-bye. You've been awfully kind
to me. And I know you're right. I'm not a
match for her. I'll never be good enough  but
I'll be rich enough one day, please God.'

John, you take away my breath. Why
should you go off like this, like a flash of lightning?
 and there's your sister just arrived.
Dear me,' cried Mrs, Egerton, 'just give this
nonsense up, it will be far more reasonable, and
take your holiday out.'

Must you go, Jack?' said Elle, quite subdued.

If it is only your sister that would detain
you,' said Air. Cattley, clearing his throat. ' She
will find friends, I am sure. We shall all be glad
to do our best for her, if she chooses to stay.'

Oh ! went look after that. We'll see to Miss
Sandford,' Percy said. '

Mrs. Egerton's under lip dropped with an
almost awe of the miracle happening before her
eyes. Mr. Cattley even, her own particular
slave ! She gave him a look and then turned to
Percy : then went ofi" suddenly into an unexpected
and, as appeared, quite uncalled-for laugh.

Elle,' she said, ' the gentlemen are taking it
all into their own hands '

And she who had so much good-humoured,
affectionate contempt for the gentlemen, who
had followed her lead with such docility for
many a day I She did not recover from her
astonishment even when John shook hands
with her hastily, and hurried off as if he meant to
begin collecting those thousands this very day.
She had not spirit enough even, save very
feebly in a scarcely audible voice, to call back
Elle, who hurried after him and who paid no
attention to that faint call. She did nothing

but stare at the two curates as the sound of the
quick young footsteps went downstairs and
died away, and then became audible again,
going out and through the garden, the gate
swinging and choking after them. Then she
said, ' Elle has gone with him !' in an appeal
and protest to earth and heaven.

It can't be helped,' said Percy, with a wave
of his hand.

Elle followed John out without saying a word,
going after him quite solemnly : the colour had
gone out of her face, her steps were subdued as
if in subjection to his. No fear had been in Elle's
mind. She had been accustomed to find most
things yield to her, and she did not see in this
new event so great an additional gravity that she
should have been brought to a stop in her life, or
made to contemplate the idea of failure. Even
now she would have fallen back upon the supreme
consciousness of her importance in the house,
and her father's incapability of resisting anything
she desired, had not that short but most
conclusive colloquy between John and Percy
confused all her ideas and silenced the words
on her lips. Aunt Mary, it is true, was more

strenuous in her resistance, more determined
than Elle had any idea of ; but the girl, who
knew the ways of her own race and kind, knew
well that even Aunt Mary, after a great deal of
impassioned argument, going over and over
again every feature of the case, would end by
exhausting everything against it, and coming
round to the conviction that there was nothing
so interesting in Hfe as the young pair and
their hopes, and that, however she might shake
her head over it, her happiness was involved in
Elle's. That was the strong point of which
Elle was quite conscious. Her own happiness
was a matter too important to the household to
be permanently risked in any way.

But a few words from Percy, for whom she
had no veneration, whom she rather scorned in
his new sacerdotal assumptions, had changed all
this ! Elle was confused by the suddenness of
the revolution, and did not understand it, nor did
she quite understand the hasty, resolute step
\vith which John went on, not observing,
apparently, that he was walking out before her.
Not that she minded that ; it seemed, on the
contrary, quite natural. She liked him to forget

VOL. II. S

that he needed to stand on any punctilio with
her. The wonderful thing was that Percy had
done it all, and that a change had been wrought
in John himself by that little curate. There
was, then, a freemasonry among them, too.
She walked on beside her lover, breathless, finding
it a little difficult to keep up with him ;
and at length, when her mind began to get into
working order again, broke the silence with a
question.

Jack, what are you going to do V

Whereupon he stopped all at once, and turned
round upon her.

Elle ! to think that I should have been thinking
so much of you as almost to forget you
Averse there ! Percy's right, that's the truth. I
must go away. I couldn't be such a hound as
to upset you and put you out with them, when
there's nothing more possible for the moment.
I've got to go and work it out.'

To work what out  to go away when you
might stay a week longer ? Aunt Mary is not
everybody. I will speak to my father,' cried
Elle, in the light of a new impulse. It was not
at all a usual thing for anyone to think of going

directly to the rector, but yet in a great emergency
it might be done.

No,' said John. ' Now that Mrs. Egerton
knows, and all of them, it's honest, EUy ; that's
all I want. Don't let us ask anything more.
They shall never say I bound you to a nobody
when you might have done so much better.
You're free, Elle ; but you'll stick to me all the
same I know.'

Till I die  and after,' she said, raising her
face, which was a little pale, but ennobled with
great and solemn feeling. She added after a
moment, falling back to a more natural level,
But I can't understand, all the same, why you
should hurry off like this  why, for something
that Percy said, Percy ! you should change all
in a moment and go and leave me'

'I'm going after you,' said John. * You're
perhaps a long way off, Elle, but the road's
clear, and I shall be a little bit nearer to you
every step I take. I'll be a little bit nearer
every day, please God. I've got the ball at my
feet, Elle. I've never had time to tell you
about it, to show you. There's all the plans and
calculations made out. Perhaps it needn't be so

s2

very long. I am not going to lose a day, not a
day.'

< What is it, Jack ? Something like what we
used to talk of? oh, how silly we were ! about
the lighthouse V

It's not a lighthouse, but the biggest job 
Elle, it was you who put me up to it from the
very first. It's your work as well as mine, and
it's for you. And I've got the ball at my feet
and the road's clear.'

CHAPTER XVL

SUSIE'S SHARE.

Susie had never been so much made of, so
watched over and attended to, all her life.

She did not quite know what to make of it
all. First there was John arriving like a whirlwind,
rushing upstairs to pack up his things,
telling her he was going away at once, with Elle
following, wistful, not quite understanding, it
seemed, yet full of suppressed excitement.
Susie suspected how it was, though she had not
been told, and she had all a young woman's
interest in her brother's love-story, and did not
see any incompatibility as Percy and Mrs.
Egerton did, but thought it very natural, as
they had known each other all their lives. She
was too kind to question Elle when she came
into the parlour while John wished upstairs.

The girl it was evident was much excited, sitting
down one moment, getting up again, turning
over the books on the table, looking out of the
window, distracted, and not knowing what todo
with herself, listening to the sound of his
movements upstairs. Susie felt that he must be
throwing his things into his portmanteau in the
most dreadful confusion, and longed to run up
and pack them for him, but did not venture to
leave her visitor, or indeed to interfere. And it
was not till some time had passed, and the
tramping overhead became more and more
lively, as if John was stamping upon his portmanteau
to get it to close (which was exactly
what he was doing) that Susie took it upon her
to inquire.

I Wonder why he is going away in such a
hurry. Do you know, Miss Spencer, if he has
had any telegram, any news ?  if he is wanted
at the office V

Oh, Susie,' said Elle, bursting forth all at
once, * don't call me Miss Spencer. I'm going
to marry him as soon as we can : and it is
because of that and Aunt Mary that he is going;
away.'

Because of that; but 1 should have thought  '
Here Susie paused iu some perplexity, and looked
her young companion in the face.

You should have thought he would have
stayed longer, instead of hurrying away ? Oh,
so should I ! but boys understand each other, it
appears, just as you and I would do. It was
Percy who said something to him. Percy is nota
bit clever; and it was slangy and only
half intelligible to me. " There are some things
a fellow can do, and some he can't," that was
all Percy said ; and Jack just jumped up as if
he had been stung and darted away. Aunt
Mary was scolding, indeed,' said Elle, glad
of the opportunity of burdening herself; ' but
what of that ? she would have come round intime.'


Perhaps he thought they did not like it,'
Susie said. -

What of that?' said Elle, 'when I tell you
they would have come round in time I' Then
she cried, ' Oh, forgive me, Susie, if I am not
civil. I am so mixed up ! So happy one
moment, and then so perplexed, and not knowing
anything about it. I thought I had it all in

my own hands. So I have, with a little time.
Papa never resists me long, and as for Aunt
Mary, she was coming round even when she was
making the most fuss. When all at once this
thing happens between the boys, and Jack pays
no more attention to me.'

With this she began to cry a little, merely
by way of distraction to fill up the time, for
Elle was not at all given to crying. There was
a sound in the midst of it as if John were coming
downstairs, and then Elle immediately cried,

Hush !' as if Susie had been the guilty person,
and dried her eyes. But John did not come
downstairs. He was still to be heard stamping
and moving about overhead. And presently
Elle resumed.

He must be making a dreadful mess of hia
things,' she said, with a tone of resignation.

So does Dick when he packs for himself, but
Percy never. Percy is always neat  and yet to
think it was he who said that!' There was
again a little pause, both listening to every
sound upstairs, Susie, puzzled and disturbed, not
knowing what to say, while Elle, altogether
absorbed in this new relationship, which was at

Once authoritative and subject, could neither
think nor speak of anything but Jack. There
was not much of the confused rapture of a newly-developed
love about her. Even at the first
moment there had been something of the familiar
sway of a sister in Elle's treatment of John, and
now she was anxious, bewildered, not knowing
what to make of him, feeling that he had
gone out of her ken into a region influenced
by a man's motives, not a woman's, which
are different. Elle gave presently a glance
at the clock, and took out her watch and compared
it, then gave a sigh of relief.  He is too
late,' she said, * thank goodness, for this train.
He must wait till night now,' whereupon she
became more composed, and her excitement
calmed down.

But Susie did not know what to say in this
curious position of affairs. To take this pretty
young stranger into her arms and talk to her of
all John's excellencies, and kiss her and cry over
her with pleasure, as is the wont of a young
man's admiring and sympathetic sister With his
love, seemed out of place T\-ith Elle, whom she
scarcely knew, who seemed to know John better

than she did, and. who, in place of the emotional
stage, was in the anxious one, rather regarding
John as a wife does who is concerned about ho w
her husband is going to act in a certain position
of affairs which affects their well-being, than asa
rapturous girl ready to find everything her
lover does half divine. There was care instead
of ecstacy on Elle's brow, and that little conflict
of opinion which must take place sometimes
between all properly endowed minds, even in the
closest relationship, was in full force. She
resumed after a time the discussion in which
Susie could not take an active part.

Don't you think,' she said, ' that instead of
starting off like this, to make his fortune  as if
a fortune could be made in a day !  it would have
been more sensible to wait and give them a little
time V

 1 am sure I don't know,' said Susie,
diffidently. 'You are so young. You didn't

mean to to marry all at once, even if your

papa gave his consent.'

Oh, no,' cried Elle, with a blush and a laugh.
Oh, no ; why, Jack's only just come of age.'
Susie accepted this information meekly.

The, he had got your consent V she said.

Oh, yes,' cried Elle, with fervour, ' of course
he had that all the time.' And then the girl was
seized with a little fit of that laughter which is
so near tears. She grasped Susie suddenly by
the arm. ' Do you know,' she cried, flaming
celestial rosy red, * what happened when he
went away ? We kissed each other ! I was
only sixteen. It was four years ago. And 1
have sometimes thought that he never understood
what had happened. But, of course,

after that, when Jack asked me ' She

could not grow more crimson than she had done
before, and her eyes filled with that golden dew
of happiness and tears which makes the dullest
eyes swim in fight. This lovely softening and
revolution in the girl's face touched Susie.
She put her arms timidly round her and kissed
her cheek, to which Elle replied by flinging herself
upon the consorting bosom of this new
friend to whom she had now a right.

We're sisters, don't you know,' she said.
I've only had Aunt Mary till now, and Aunt
Mary's so much older. Yes, of course, of course,.
be had my consent.'

Then what did he want more V said Susie, in
her ear. ' Dear, I'm of Mr. Percy's opinion too.
He has got to go away and do what he can to
make it agreeable to your people. That is the
only thing he could do  unless he had kept away
altogether,' Susie added, ' which would perhaps
have been the wisest way.'

At which EUy sprang up, and, seizing her
comforter by both arms, shook her, first with
wild indignation, then bursting again into the
agitated laughter which belonged to her state.

Oh, you cruel  oh, you barbarous ' she

cried, and kissed her between. Then they
started apart and turning round appeared demurely,
seated close to each other in silence and
attention, when John came in hurriedly with a
bag in his hand pushing open the door.

It was of no use, however, as he was obliged
to acknowledge. The night train which did
not pass till midnight was the only one possible.
As a matter of fact he did not go till next
morning, subdued in his ardour of departure by
a whole afternoon spent in the society of Elle,
with whose freedom for that day nobody interfered.
And indeed the afternoon was passed in a

somewhat strange way, in the parlour which was
so cod acted with all the associations of John's
youthful life, where he and she bending over
the table with their heads close together went
over the plans, of which John made a sketch for
Elle's benefit, of the great scheme which he was
convinced was to make his fortune. It was,
let us say, the drainage of the Thames valley,
than which there is no more urgently wanted
piece of engineering, nor one which would bring
a young man more fame and money.

John drew rude plans and diagrams of all
kinds, while Elle looked on. He became enthusiastic
in his descriptions, laying out everything
before her, the manner in which the waste
was to be carried away so as to do good and
not harm, how floods were to be prevented, how
the low-lying lands near the river were to be
protected and utilised. John's eyes glowed ashe
set it all forth, and Elle said, 'I see !' ' I understand,'
with sympathetic emotion and many a
lyric of praise ; but whether she did really see so
clearly as she said, remains, perhaps, open to
doubt. She believed, at all events, which comes
to the same thing, and -ithout being at all

humbled or troubled by her inability to fathom
the expedients or comprehend the calculations.
At sixteen she would not have given in so easily.
She would have worked out the diagrams,
and compelled herself to know what it was all
about. But now she saw, after a sort, through
John's eyes and was satisfied. He got perhaps
more applause than was good for him from Elle,
who he honesty believed followed all his elucidations,
and from Susie, who understood none of
them, and did not pretend to know anything
save that he was very clever, the cleverest of
engineers, a conclusion which, with deprecations,
John was not perhaps altogether unwilling to
accept. In this way they spent a few hours
of such happiness as comes but rarely in youthful
life. It was better than the more emotional
rapture of the young lover's paradise, for it had
so many finer elements in it to their own happy
consciousness. Their life was to be built upon
this grand work, which was a work which would
save life, which would increase comfort, which
would make wealth, not only to themselves but
to others. It was the plan which had ' pleased
their childish thought.' It was Elle's dream,

which she had transferred with all her srirYB
enthusiasm to the steady working brain, full of
impulses more lasting than hers, and a training
infinitely stronger, which had made that suggestion
into a reality.

Thus the personalty of each was flattered and
charmed with the scheme that seemed to be in
some sort the production of both. And Susie,
who could not possibly claim any share, sat by
and admired and applauded. She was as much
delighted as they were. She had the additional
advantage of being able to feel how clever they
both were, how good it was that John was to
have a wife who understood him, who would go
with him in everything. Susie sat and beamed
upon them from the heights of unselfish enthusiasm
and delight, not with any effort to understand.
Her mind had no need of that. Her
part was to admire and love, which was easy,
and suited her best.

Susie made no objections about remaining
behind, when John thus rushed away. She was
pleased with the village, the quietness, the retirement,
the new friends ; and, as has been said,
she had never been so much made of, never met

with SO many attentions all her life. The old
gardener and his wife whom John had managed
to pick up again, and instal as guardians of
the house, according to his old dream, were in
the first place her devoted servants, telling her
all manner of stories about her grandparents,
which were very pleasant to Susie ; and then
she had visits from everybody to comfort or to
explain to her. Mrs. Egerton came, full of
anxiety, appealing to her as a person of sense to
say whether she did not think her brother far
too young to take the serious engagements of
life upon him  whether it was not a pity for a
young man to tie a millstone round his own
neck  whether she had ever seen an engagement
turn out well that had been formed so indefinitely,
where there was no likelihood of a
conclusion to it for years ? This was the tone
Mrs. Egerton had now taken up : and indeed she
was too much of a gentlewoman at any time to
have troubled Susie with any hint of the inequality
in family and circumstances, which she
had pointed out so distinctly to John. And then
Elle would come with her letters, to ask what
news Susie had, and to talk about Jack and herself

 herself and Jack, and what they had done
when they were ' young,' and what now they
meant to do.

Percy too had got a habit of ' looking in ' when
he came in from his rounds in the parish. He
tried to interest Susie in parish Avork, and, indeed,
did get from her a wonderful deal of information
and help in the matter of the cottage hospital
which he and the parish doctor were so anxious
to get up  Percy, in order to get the sick poor to
some small extent provided for, the doctor T\ath
perhaps the less virtuous motive of studying
disease. She gave him a great deal of help, but
that did not altogether account for the constant
visits he paid her, nor the deferential tone in
which he spoke, and the respect with which he
received all her little opinions. On the subject
of hospitals, it was true, Susie knew more than
anyone else in the whole parish : but on others
her opinions were timid and not at all self-assured.
Yet with what respect this young
maj who put aside EUys much more convinced
and enlightened views, listened to the little
which Miss Sandford had to say! He almost
frightened Susie by the earnestness of his attend

II. T

tion, frightened her, flattered her, in the end
amused her very much, and made her laugh to
herself in private at the new position she held,
quoted and looked up to as in all her life she
had never been before. Susie could not tell
why. She was older than he was, and she
understood his kind better than he understood
hers, and had not in reality as much reverence
for the type of curate as he had. But yet he
came every day, and told her more about himself
and his own life and thoughts than any one
else knew, and brought her books which he was
anxious she should read and tell him her opinion
of, even going so far as to mark passages, in the
eagerness of his desire to know what she thought
on this and that point. It was not possible that
Percy should refrain from all remark about John
in these many and prolonged interviews, but
the tenderness with which he treated Susie's
brother was very different from the uncompromising
views he had held on that subject before
Susie appeared at Edgeley. He gave her to
understand that if he interfered at all it was
wholly in John's interest.

'They would never be allowed to marry now;

indeed, I don't suppose they ever thought of
that ; and it seemed best for them not to let him
lose his time here, and disturb his mind don't
you think so. Miss Sandford ? A fine fellow Uke
Jack, with everything before him

But they say,' said Susie, in her modest
way, * that nothing is so good for a young man.
It gives him something to look forward to, and
a motive in his work. John is so much younger
than I am. I feel more like a mother to him  '

And so do I to Elle,' said the young man,
With great gravity, ' Who is just like that, much
younger than I. And next to our own family I
take an interest in Jack. He has done so
well, and will do still better, I feel sure. And
then he will understand what I meant. Miss
Sandford, won't you come to the edge of the
common and see the sunset ? It is going to be
glorious. I'll bring you home afterwards, and
then, perhaps you will give a look at this which
I brought to show you. I should so much like
to know what you think.'

Sometimes Susie assented to this proposal,
and would walk out pleasantly in the light of
the declining sun, to see the sky all golden and

T 2

purple over the common, and all those peaceful
sights of a country life, which are so wonderful
and delightful to town-bred folk. She had no
lack of companions, of escorts, of attendants at
any time, and the air, that was so sweet and
fresh, blowing over miles of green and blossoming
country, and the friendly life of the village,
and the tranquillity of the little house, and its
sweet old-fashioned garden, was a refreshment
to her beyond anything that heart could conceive.
She thought regretfully of her mother,
going on all the time with that stern routine
which was all charity and succour yet at the
same time business of the severest and most uncompromising
kind. But Susie knew that the
sweet rest she was taking would not be a possibility
to her mother, and that the hospital was
what suited Mrs. Sandford best. And she could
not but think of John, whose name was on
everybody's lips, and who had gone off with
such an impulse of energy and faith in himself
and his future : but afterwards returned again
with a great deal of pleasure to the life around,
which breathed so full of quiet and friendliness,
and every pleasant thing.

She had another frequent visitor whom she
received with almost more please and sense of
grateful esteem than any, and that was Mr.
Cattley, who had not half so much to say as
Percy, and yet seemed to feel in Susie's parlour
the room which he had known so well in other
times, when it was full of the ways of the old
people, but which now was Susie's parlour as if
it never had belonged to anyone else  something
of the same sweet calm and refreshment
which the \411age life and quiet brought to her.
Mr. Cattley knew the village as well as Susie
knew the hospital : he wanted something more
to refresh his spirit : and on the eve of going
away from Edgeley, and breaking up all the
old habits which had been his life for year?, this
new habit and association were more pleasant to
him than it was easy to believe anything could
be. He liked to sit and watch her, moving
about, or sitting at work, or perhaps only looking
up With a little interchange of simple talk.
He told her when he got more familiar how long
he had been here, and how little inclination he
had to go away ; and then he told her of his new
parish, and its great unlikeness to this, and how

reluctant he was to plunge into it, feeling as if
he were about to plunge into a new world.

It will not seem so when you get used to it
Susie would say.

No, most likely not. It is the getting used
to it that is the difficulty,' he would reply : and
looked at her in an anxious way, as if the sight
of her made a difference. He did not himself
understand yet what the difference was.

When Percy came and found Mr. Cattley
there, the new curate made it apparent in his
manner that he thought the old one very much
out of place. He would say,

Oh, I thought this was your day for the
schools : but, of course, it is not important to
keep that up now you are going away ;' or ' I
thought you said 3'ou would take the almshouses
this evening. If I had known you
were not going I should have gone, for the old
people don't like to be disappointed :' which
was half-amusing to Mr. Cattley, but not
pleasant, as the pupil's attempts to instruct his
former master seldom are. But what the old
curate felt most of all was Ashen the young man
said to him : * I thought you had some business

with Aunt Mary ! I know she was looking for
you.'

When this was said, Mr. Cattley took up his
hat and rose from his chair, giving Susie a
glance which she did not understand  and perhaps
neither did he: and Percy would settle
himself in his chair to remain, while Mr. Cattley
went away.

CHAPTER XVII.

JOHN'S RESOLUTION.

John's feelings as he returned to town were very
different indeed from those with which he had
left London. Everything then was enveloped in a
vague pleasure of expectation, a delightful doubt
which was not fear. He did not know what he
was to meet, how he was to be received, what
changes had passed upon his old home and surroundings.
All that was unascertained, in every
way doubtful, making his heart beat with uncertainty,
with expectation, and a pleasant mist of
possibilities. But since then all had become clear
so clear! dazzling even in the distinctness of the
light : and he himself had been suddenly liftedfrom
youthful obscurity, and compelled, as he felt, to
distinguish himself, to bring out all his powers
without delay, to prove what he was. He was

not afraid of this compulsion : it exhilarated him
rather with the delightful consciousness that he
was equal to the undertaking, able for all that
was demanded from him ; proud and glad to be
forced to the front where he knew he could hold
his place. But still it was a tremendous change
one that subdued him with its greatness even
while it exhilarated and inspired him. Life
had altered altogether. It had become a thing
laid down on grand and noble lines, much
greater and firmer than anything he had thought
of, yet perhaps, by reason of being no longer
vague, not such an altogether splendid and
dazzling possibility. He saw before him what
he was going to do. He was not going to conquer
kingdoms, to deliver princesses, to subdue
the nations like an old knight of romance,
which is what in the mists of the morning every
ambitious youth still feels possible, though the
nineteenth century makes it expedient for them
to laugh at all such fancies. John too had seen
visions in which he enacted the part of St.
George and encountered a modern dragon, with
Elle looking on ; and the dream had been sweet.
But he saw things differently now. He was

going to slay no dragon. There was not indeed
any monster to slay. What he had to do
was to mature as rapidly as possible his plans,
the great scheme which had occupied so much
of his thoughts for months past, which he had
been working out on paper, and building his
future upon. It was, after all, the slaying of a
dragon in the only practicable nineteenth century
way ; and perhaps the mediaeval dragon meant
nothing more than a great public danger which
the knight-errant had to face and subdue and
kill, or reform into an amiable and sociable
monster, as could be done to the great river,
which, a tyrant and destroyer sometimes, was at
others the delight and help of man. All these
ideas passed through his head as the train
plunged along, with little interludes of lover-like
dreaming and surprises of softer thoughts.
He would recall to himself EUy on the
common, as she looked when she had given
herself to him, and next moment would be
running over long lines of calculations in his
mind, calculations made over and over again,
which it was a satisfaction to prove and reprove,
lest there should lurk any weak points in them.

How to perfect them in every final detail, to carry
them to the firm, to demonstrate the gi-neatness
of the undertaking, the impossibility of failure 
which, indeed, would at once be plain and evident
to those skilled eyes, was to be his occupation
now. After that everything would be plain
sailing enough, he felt. He had meant to delay
a little, to wait until he was himself a little more
matm-e. But what did that matter, after all ?
He was only all the more adapted to superintend
and carry out the work for being so young ashe
was. Young as he was he was a fully trained
engineer, and already works of some importance
had been committed to his hands. He was
equal to any fatigue and any exertion in the
carrying out of this, and there could be no doubt
that he was the only fit person to work his own
plan to completion. As a matter of fact he had
no doubt about anything, either in the plan itself
or his capability of executing it, or its instant
and entire acceptance by those who had so long
been looking for something of the kind.

He had thus so much to think of, that when
the quickening of speed, the suburban stations
whirling by, and all the signs which announce a

near arrival at the end of a journey, made it
clear that London was at hand, he was half
sorry, and felt that he had not had half time
enough for all he had to think about. He
gathered up the two primary subjects of his
thoughts as he did the books and newspapers
which he had not read, being concerned with
more pressing matters, and jumped out of the
carriage with his bag in his hand with the sense
that he had not a moment to lose. It was a long
train, and there were a great many passengers,
porters running about after the luggage, a crowd
of cabs waiting ; and in the hurry John strode
along, intending to mount up upon the knife-board
of an omnibus which passed the end of
the street in which his lodgings lay. But it was
not fated that he should do this so simply as he
intended.

As he made his way through the crowd he
met with an unexpected interruption. Someone
called him two or three times in a voice
which he remembered at once as somehow
familiar, though he did not understand it for the
moment. It was like a voice in a dream calling
to him, though not by his own name ? Was it

not his own name ? With a slight start he remembered
it and what it meant.

Mr. May  John May !' cried the voice which
became breathless with the hunting of its owner
towards him. John looked round, and saw close
to him a figure which he had not seen for a longtime
; a tall man, taller than ever in consequence
of his increased leanness and meagi-eness, with
a tall hat, more shiny than ever by reason of
extreme wear and shabbiness, and the glaze of
poverty. John had seen very little of Mon-treason
since the time when he had first made
his acquaintance, on his arrival in town. From
time to time a chance meeting in the streets had
made it apparent to him that the poor actor's
hopes that his affairs would take a turn and that
fortune once more would favour him, were not
likely to be realised, as also that there were
agencies at work which were Hkely to keep him
down more than any spite of fortune. John, in his
studious boyhood, keeping himself clear from all
distraction, was not likely to be tolerant of any
moral weakness of that description, and he had
avoided the chance acquaintance who had come
so suddenly into his life, but yet had never failed

when a meeting occurred to greet him kindly, and
to ask after the child whom he had saved from
injury. Now and then when Montressor's face
looked more gaunt, and his clothes were more
poverty-stricken and his talk more big than usual,
John Avould send a present to the little girl,
which he could see was eagerly accepted. There
were times even when he would meet the poor
actor two or three weeks in succession lingering
about the end of the street where his lodgings
were, and John had an understanding that the
wolf was at the door, and that the five shillings
he sent to buy little Edie a doll were probably of
use for more serious needs : then perhaps for
months or an entire year he would see the
shabby figure in that hat which was always
shiny, and the clothes which were always
threadbare, no more.

For one thing, John, in his serious young
manhood, had altogether outgrown the boyish
petulance which had induced him to call himself
May. Whatever had been the cause of his
mother's abandonment of that name, he felt sure
it must have been a just cause. He had gradually
grown into a respect which was not either sympathy

or filial feeling for his mother and her
decisions, and the hot boyish opposition to all
she desired, which once boiled in his veins, was
there no longer. In the gravity of twenty-one,
which felt Hke ten years more after his studious
and serious youth, he was willing to confess
that he had been very foolish at the moment of
grief and passion when he had left home and the
tender care of the old gi'andparents, to enter
upon life. And the sight of Montressor, and his
appeal to him by the name which he had
assumed for that moment only, always brought
an acute pang of recollection and shame.

And yet he had never informed the actor that
his name for ordinary purposes was not May.
Something withheld him from any such confession
 indeed, for that and other reasons he made
his interview with the actor as brief as possible
when he met him, and was glad to buy him off
with that five shillings for Edie, though hehadnot
always been rich enough to spare it easily. Today
he felt the call after him of * Mr. May  John
May,' more disagreeable than ever. There was
no telling who might hear the respectable John
Sandford addressed by that name, and explanations

are always difficult. He turned sharply-round
upon his doubtful acquaintance, raising his
hand to stop the call.

Do you want mew he said, in a tone which
perhaps was somewhat sharp, too.

Me young friend, I am delighted to see you,'
said Montressor ; ' it is ages since we have met.
Let me help to carry your things, me excellent
young hero  for such ye are ever to me. The
child is well, and always remembers her
deliverer  in her prayers, me dear May, in her
prayers.'

Poor little Edie ! I am very glad to hear she
is well, and I hope you are as busy as 1 am,'
said John, with an uneasy smile. *I scarcely
have a moment I can well call my own,' a statement
which was largely influenced by his desire
to get away from any prolonged interview now.
To tell the truth, Montressor, gaunt and shabby
in his shiny hat, was not the sort of person with
whom a highly respectable young man would
Dare to be seen standing amid the crowds of a
railway station in London, in what was still the
full light of day.

Ah, me dear young fellow, ye're got a solid

occupation by the hand, thank yer stars for it ;
not a sHppeiy standing upon the slopes of Art ;
be thankful for it,' said Montressor, with the air
of consoling one of the inferior classes for his
disadvantages. ' In me own profession, though
ye may mount up to the skies, ye are likewise
exposed to all the tricks of fortune, that jade :
and malice and spite may drive ye down to the
depths, where, alas ! Montressor is now.'

I am very sorry,' said John, * but you had an
engagement V

I had  an engagement : but the conspiracy
that's pursued me from me youth has once more
coiled its meshes about me feet. Ah !' cried
Montressor, with a sort of hissing through his
teeth, ' if I could but hold the heads of that
hydra in me hands and crush them forever
! But let us not speak of that,' he continued,
with a fling over his shoulder of some
imaginary burden. ' Let's not speak of that : it
disturbs the pleasure of this friendly meeting
and does no good, John, when, me dear young
friend, it's a please beyond telling among all
our own troubles to see an example of success
and prosperity in you.'

VOL. II. U

Yes, I have got on very well,' said John, half
mollified, half impatient ; ' but I have a great
deal to do. I am rushing home now to see
after some plans.'

I'll walk with you,' said Montressor, * for
though I'm not the well-known man I once was,
me young friend, to be seen with Montressor
will do ye no harm.'

*rm not going to walk  further than the
omnibus.'

Then I'll go as far. It's not friendship
moves me this time, me young friend, though
for friendship to my child's deliverer I'd go
further still. I told ye I knew a man of
your name, a poor fellow that got into trouble
long ago. He's been in seclusion, poor man, for
his country's good, don't ye know ? Poor devil !
and he's what the French call a good devil, too,
poor wretch  a kind creature  one that would
give ye a share of his last crust  ay, and do a
thing for any man that asked him, without considering
if it was according to the law or not.'

That's awkward,' said John, ' a man should
draw the line at that. It doesn't do to go
against the law.'

*No, it doesn't do  that's what it is. The
case may be as bad as ye please, hard or unjust

or but ye mustn't go against it. That's

what poor May can't be got to see, poor devil :
and he is terrible poor, and he's got no friends.'

 1 am very sorry, Mr. Montressor : but I don't
see that I can do any good.'

Xo, but being of the same name you might
find a way. Me young friend, t' would be a real
charity. For the thing is he has a family, but
don't know where to find 'em. It's a pitiful
story : and you're of the same name. Now give
me a little of your attention, me young benefactor,
for that ye are and always have been.
It isn't much that's in Montressor's power now.
But, look ye, if I could find this poor devil's
friends and put him in kind hands, I'd be happy
with the sense that I'd done one good action :
and, me dear May, oh, me dear young May !'

What does it mutter,' said John, ' that I'm of
the same name ? What can I do ? I could give
you a few shillings for him, that's all I could
do.'

'The shillings,' said Montressor, 'are not
wanted yet. There's money enough as yet.

But if his own friends were to take him back he
might be kept from harm, and where he is he'll
be in trouble again before a month's out. Me
dear friend, among the Mays ye belong to isn't
there one that's gone wrong ? Isn't there one
that's disappeared out of ken. Think, me boy,
me dear boy, it's the saving of a fellow-creature,
it's the delivering of a soul !'

The actor stood still in the middle of the
pavement to say this in his most impressive
tone, and John perforce stood still with him, his
bag in his hand, his coat on his arm, and confusion
and annoyance in his face.

No,' he said, ' I know nobody. I've  no
relations of that name. Pray let me go. I've a
tremendous evening's work before me. I can't
really, so far as I'm aware, be of the least use to
your friends

Think it over,' said Montressor, ' think it
over. We've too good a heart not to help if ye
can. Think it over, me dear May. I will tell
me wife and me child I have seen ye, which is
what they always hear with pleasure  with
pleasure,' he said, with emphasis.

The actor looked very poor, very thin, very

bare of everything. His appearance suddenly-struck
John as they stood side by side in the
crowded street. The omnibus was ah-lady insight,
bearing down upon him with its freight of
men. John was very eager to escape, to get to his
own business, to plunge into the plans which
he so confidently expected were to bring him
fame and fortune. But it suddenly occurred to
him what a contrast to his own confident youth
was this poor man at the other end of life, who
had made his try and failed : and who out of the
depths of his poverty and downfall, was pleading
for another who had failed more bitterly than
himself. The pathos of it struck John in the
midst of his impatience to escape from it, and
his natural youthful disinclination to have painful
matters which he had nothing to do with,
thrust upon him like this. He hated it, he was
impatient of it, he longed to escape and feel
himself in face of his own success which he held
to be so certain ; but a certain glistening wistfulness
in the actor's eye, and his reluctance to
be left behind, and the shabbiness of his garb
and aspect altogether, moved John's heart in
spite of himself. The young man adopted that

expedient which is so general, with which most
of us are so willing to buy off distress and free
ourselves from the sight of misery. He took out
one of his few sovereign  for though he was
sufficiently well off he did not abound in money
from his waistcoat pocket.

I have not seen Edie for a long time,' he
said, ' and she must want much bigger dolls now
than the one she used to be so fond of. Will you
give her this for me, and tell her to buy something
with it. And I'll come and see her soon.
Here's my omnibus. I am sorry I can't do anything
for your friend. Good-bye.'

God bless ye,' said the actor. * Ye're always
the same fine fellow. Edie will bless ye, me
brave boy. But think over the other case that
I've told ye of. Think it over, and good-bye,
and be sure ye come. We'll look for ye, and
Edie Good-bye. Good-bye !'

John did not care that even the people on the
omnibus should see the shiny hat which was
waved to him with so much enthusiasm. But
there was nobody he knew, and presently, as he
bowled along, his former thoughts came back
to him and he himself forgot this interruption

which was only momentary. Month ensor's fiend,
whose name was May, attracted but little his
preoccupied mind. There had, indeed, been a
time when it might have excited him, when he
had been so anxious about the mystery of his
childhood that anyone bearing that name would
have roused his attention. But that phase was
altogether over. If he ever thought of his
boyish visit to Liverpool, and the mayor whose
name was May, and all the anxiety he was into
affiliated himself somehow, it was with a smile
of mingled self-ridicule and shame. Nothing-now
could make him anything but John Sandford,
which was as truly his name as any name
could be, which he had made known as that of
a young man sure to rise, one who had the ball
at his foot and before whom the way was clear.
He was doomed to interruptions, however,
that evening. He had just settled down to his
work after a hearty meal, laying out his papers
upon the table and disposing himself to a last
inspection of all his calculations and diagrams,
when his landlady, a woman who had the greatest
respect for John, tapped seriously, with a tap
that evidently meant something, at the door.

She came in, when John bade her enter, with a
grave face.

Mr. Sandford,' she said, 'there has been two
men here asking for you as are not your sort at
all. One is like a poor gentleman as has got
into trouble, and the other's no better than a
rough off the streets. They've been here twice
asking to see you. I don't know if they've anything
to do with the works. Once they was
both the worse for liquor. I don't like to have
such folks seen at my door.'

 I know nothing about them,' said John. ' I
certainly expected no such visitors. Did they
say what they wanted V

They wanted the gentleman as lived here.
When I asked if it was Mr. Sandford, the old
gentleman, he gave a sort of a cry, but he was
that weak on his legs he could not be very clear
in his head, I don't think : and then they commenced
again, and they said as you'd been kind
to them, and they wanted to see you. And if
you'll peep out of the window behind the curtain
you'll see them coming along the street. And
kind or not kind, Mr. Sandford (though I know
you're a good-hearted young gentleman), the''

ain't the sort of folks, take my word for it, to becoming
to a respectable house.'

John glanced from the window, as he was
told: and there he saw approaching the two
men whom he had encountered on the steps of
the oflSce the night before he went to Edgeley 
the tramp whom he had already come in contact
with several times before, and the man who had
gone to sleep against the closed door, and whom
he had rescued and taken to safe lodgings for
the night. He had forgotten the adventure in
the press of other thoughts, but now it came all
fresh to his mind.

Oh, these men,' he said. ' Yes, I do know
them, though I don't know who they are. If
they want to see me, let them come in, Mrs.
Short, for once.'

'If I were you, sir, I'd send them half-a-crown,
and say as you were too busy, and better they
should come no more.'

Well, I am very btisy,' said John. He hesitated
for a moment, looking at his papers, thinking
the half-crown would be well expended : and
then another sentiment moved him which he
could not explain to himself, a curiosity, a melting

of the heart. Here was some other direful
failure; a crash still worse than Montressor's and
Montressor's friend while he, John Sandford,
was so strong in youthful success. 'No,' he
said, 'poor souls, I'll see them. Let them come
in, this once.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

A PHILOSOPHER.

The two men came in, the first with a somewhat
downcast shamefaced au', the other with the
impassiveness of the man who cannot be less
thought of than he is, and who has neither pretensions
nor hopes ; yet it was Joe who was the
first, and who encouraged his apparently uncongenial
companion to enter.

Don't you funk it,' said Joe, * if any onely
help you, he'll do it. This gentleman,' he added,
addressing John, who was looking at them
across the table covered by his papers, with a
slightly impatient look, 'is my mate, sir, as I
told you on ; him as you was so kind to, t'other
night. He wanted for to thank you for all your
kindness: and there's there's another thing or
two '

*I suppose he can tell me himself what he
wants,' said John.

The other man stood crnshinghis hat between
his hands, looking at John with deprecating
eyes, in which there lurked a smile, as though
he was conscious how ludicrous it was that he
should be thus introduced under the patronage
of this strange companion. He said now,

That might be a little hard. But I can at
least thank you, sir, for the kindness of the other
night.'

It was nothing,' said John, confusedly.
Won't you sit down ? It was very surprising
to see a  a person like you '

In such circumstances and such company,
you would say ? For the circumstances  yes ;
but, for the company, it's the best this world can
give any man, the company of a faithful friend.
Joe's not very polished, and if he's clever it's
perhaps not in a laudable way : but he's
faithful. 1 believe he'll never forsake me, sir.
He's as faithful as if I were a prince and he a
knight. A poor pair of nobilities we'd make.
You needn't say so. 1 can see it in your
eyes.'

I hope he is as faithful as you think,' said
John, * but '

 But me no buts,' said the stranger, * if I
give up Joe, I give up everything. I have
nothing but Joe to trust to. Oh, yes, he's faithful
: for if he weren't I should sink into ruin
altogether. Don't say anything against him 
he's all I have.'

The speaker gave John a look  which he
thought more pathetic than anything he had
ever seen, and which went at once to his heart
a look which betrayed a knowledge of Joe
and of all that was in John's mind concerning
him, and of the unstable foundation on which
his confidence reposed. The pathos and the
wistfulness and the humour that were in it
betrayed to .John's mind the existence of a sort
of passionless self-conscious despairing, such as he
had never glimpsed at before, or believed in the
possibility of. Joe was this poor wretch's only
prop, but in his heart he knew Joe better than
anyone else, and was half-amused in the depths
of his desolation that he himself should still be
capable of this human changing to the only
being who stood by him. This was what his

eyes said to John's. Joe's faithfulness was a
sort of woeful jest to him, yet his poor sheet-anchor,
too.

Have you no relations V John said ; he could
not tell why, for what right had he to question
this, unfortunate man ?

Relations,' said the other, ' are not fond of a
man in my circumstances. You know where
Tve come from, I believe, sir, and what I am.
May I ask you what made you so kind to me 
the other night?'

John looked at Joe, who stood behind looking
on, his eyes prowling round in a sort of hungry
investigation. The other had drawn a chair to the
table, and seated himself, but Joe stood looking
about him, like a predatory animal examining if
perhaps there might be something to devour.

Would your friend mind,' said John, * if 1
were to ask him to step into the hall V

The stranger gave a keen glance towards the
door.

If there is nothing of value there,' he said,
quickly ; then, with a change of his tone, * Joe,
my good fellow, take a little walk outside. I
seem to want to have a sentinel or I can't

rest. Just go and walk about a bit outside.'

Joe gave another predatory glance around,
and then with a nod of his head withdrew.

I'll come back,' he said, ' in 'als an 'our. If I
walks about, some bobby or other will be after
me. They don't never let a poor fellow alone

The stranger gave John one of his humorous
looks.

Such is the effect of prejudice,' he said.

It was impossible that any position could be more
strange. This unknown criminal, this discharged
convict, of whom all that John knew was that
he was a convict, and had no friend but Joe,
seated himself opposite to the young man familiarly
at John's own table, with a twinkle in his eye
and a grotesque sense of all that was ludicrous in
his own circumstances which was entirely bewildering
to a young man not used to mental
phenomena of any kind. The man was dressed in
clothes of an old-fashioned cut (most likely such
as had been quite fashionable and appropriate,
John thought, in the days when he was shut up
in prison), but still perfectly correct and respectable,
and there was in his aspect nothing of that
familiarity with comfort and decency which

was evident in his companion. This person
drew in his chair to John's table with the ease
and freedom of one to whom a tidy bourgeois
parlour was usual and natural. Perhaps he might
have been accustomed to better places  certainly
not to worse. How the episode of the prison
had affected him, John wondered vaguely, but
at all events there was nothing visible of that
association. He was able to make a good-humoured
joke of it  a joke which concealed,
was it philosophy, was it despair ? He settled
into seriousness, however, as the door closed
upon Joe, though the smile was never far from
his eyes  and repeated, with a slight curiosity,

You were very kind  that night. To find
myself in a decent house, in a soft bed, was
wonderful. I couldn't help wondering why you
should take such an interest in me.'

The eyes which were so expressive gave a
wistful, almost imploring look in John's face, as
if the man had some suspicion, or rather hope,
that John's motive was other than that of mere
charity. The young man was bewildered by this
look, and by a something, he could not tell what,
that was sympathetic and familiar in the air of

the stranger. Sympathetic I and he was one of
the criminal class, a returned convict ! John's
mind was full of confusion, perplexed beyond
measure by the influence which he felt to affect
him in spite of himself But, though he was
angry with himself for yielding to it, he could
not resist his strange companion's eyes.

It does not seem becoming in me, at my age,
to speak so to a man of yours,' he said. ' But
when I saw you, helpless, with no one but that
ruffian '

The twinkle lit up again in the eyes of the
other; he put up his hand in deprecation.

Be gentle,' he said, ' with poor Joe.'

How was it possible to maintain the air of a virtuous
superior with this smiling criminal V John
was more and more abashed and embarrassed.

I thought,' he said, * that if you had time to
look out  for your real friends '

It was simple charity, then?' said the man,
with a faint sigh : and then he smiled again. ' At
least it was a kind thought. You wanted to
deliver me from the evil connections into which
you thought I had fallen, in coming out, for
lack of better. It was a very kind thought.'

VOL. 11. X

John felt himself draw a long breath, almost a
gasp of astonishment and relief and utter confusion
of mind. He had felt himself the benefactor,
doing indeed a very kind action, something that
perhaps not many men would have done : and
he was altogether taken aback by this generous
appreciation of his good motive.

You were right enough,' said the other,
quite right if I had been a more hopeful subject.
But you're too young to know all the ins
and the outs of it. I have no real friends. Joe
may, or may not, be faithful, poor fellow, but
he's the only human creature who sticks to me,
and I am used to him. It was a kind thought
on your part, but one that couldn't come to anything.
I partially divined it, so I left the place.
I could not enjoy the clean sheets and the tidy
room under false pretences ; no less thanks to
you, my young friend.'

But ' said John, ' you are not surely

going to let yourself sink ? you, a man evidently
of education, of sense, of understanding '

Sink  to what ? Can one sink any deeper ?
I had all these things when I went  wrong, as
people say. If they did not prevent me then,

how do you think they are going to stop me
now V

John could do nothing but gasp and draw
his breath, and stare at this calm statement.
The speaker, after a moment's pause, looked at
him closely, and said,

You knew nothing at all about me then, what
I had done or where I had been V

How should I V said John.

The other laughed a little.

How should you indeed ? but I had a kind of
a hope you might. You don't even know what
I did to get myself into such a scrape ? It was
nothing brutal like poor Joe's.'

I wish,' said John, * you would not tell meany
more : if I can help you to work to keep out
of the mire, I will do it ; but if it is only how
you fell in to it, why should I know ? I don't
want to know.'

Why, indeed V echoed the stranger, * and
yet one has a sort of desire to tell. After all,
you know, after thinking it over in every
possible light for fourteen years, I cannot seethe
absolute sin there is in writing another
man's name. On the face of it, it's no great

x2

thing  not so much as telKng a He, which anybody
does without thinking. It's only a more
formal sort of a lie. Offences against the person
are evident crimes ; to injure another man, to put
him in danger of his life, to give him pain, that I
can understand ; or to rob him of what is perhaps
his children's bread. But to write his name instead
of your own ! T have had a great deal of
time to think of it. I cannot see, after all,
the criminality of that.'

It's one of the worst of crimes,' said John,
'it strikes at the root of everything. Why,
forgery '

Yes, give a dog an ill name,' said the other
dispassionate thinker, ' call it forgery, and it becomes
a bogey and frightens everybody. And
yet, after all, apart from the motive, it's the
simplest action. Then there's the other thing,
drink  which is so often the first step (I hope
you have no leanings that way, though I seem
to excuse it  for, right or wrong, it's ruin)  well,
there's no sin, you know, in that. Wine's not
vice, nor even whisky. No one will tell me that
to take two, three, or indeed any number of
glasses of anything is vice.'

Excess is vice,' cried John. He felt himself
redden with indignant fervour. The idea that
any man could sit by him calmly and look him
in the face and defend the indefensible  take up
the cause of vice and criminality : he could not
believe his ears. The criminal generally (sofar
as he was aware, especially the drunkard, of
which kind the young man had seen in the way
of his work some fine examples) is too apt to
be unctuous in his repentance and quite uncompromising
in his denunciation of his vice.
To hear a man in this calm and apparently
reasonable way discuss it as an open question
was entirely new to him.

Excess is  excess,' said this philosopher,
very bad for you, in whatever way you consider
it ; for the stomach and the constitution, also for
your prospects in life, to which it is destruction ;
that's indisputable. But how far you can be
said to break the moral law  To be sure you
may take higher ground or lower ground. You
may say that whatever obscures your brain and
makes you incapable of reflection and thought,
which is the spiritual side of the question; or, on
the other hand, whatever visibly interferes with

your comfort and destroys your career  But
that last is mercenary,' he added, with a wave of
his hand, ' and things that are mercenary and
based on self-interest belong to a lower class of
motives altogether ; not what we were discussing
at all

There is nothing to discuss that I can see,*
cried John. ' All that you say is a mere confusion
of plain right and wrong. To forge another man's
name is to sin against your neighbour ; and
drink is a sin against  yourself, and everything
that's sane and rational. You own yourself it's
ruin ; and it's degradation and misery and everything
that's dreadful. I have seen it among the
men '

I never said anything about the penalties,'
said the other, waving his hand again. ' They're
innumerable : but they're irrelevant. The penalties
are enormous. Drinking is not in the
decalogue at all, you'll acknowledge that. But
if you consider consequences (which, however,,
I protest are irrelevant), there's nothing, not
even murder, that is punished so. It makes a
wreck of everything  a young fellow's looks, and
his health, and all he stands upon. He pays for his

glass with everything he has in the world. You
may even steal without being caught for years :
but if you drink you lose everything : there's no
escape for you and no hope. All that is true.
Still it isn't the sin that lying is, or cheating, or
bearing false witness. These things are all in
the commandments, but not drinking. So far
as I can see, and I have had a great deal of
time to think, we're paid out for that in the
present world. It's not left over like the
rest for  the other place, sir, the other
place.'

If you'd seen what I've seen,' cried John,
with honest, youthful fervour ; ' the harm it has
done  oh, not to the brute himself, I don't care
a farthing for that ! but to the helpless wife and
children,  you would know better than to
hesitate for a moment as to whether drinking is
a sin.'

If I'd seen what he's seen !' cried his strange
companion, with that wonderful twinkle in his
eye. The humour in it was tinged with the profoundest
tragedy, though John, in his indignation,
failed to see it. He began to laugh low to
himself with a curious quiver of sound in his

throat. * I've done more than see it. I've done
it,' he said : ' broken the hearts of everybody I
cared for in the world. You don't know what
I am. I am a man that have had a wife and
children, and perhaps have still, for aught I know.
I made them pay for my whisky, God knows I
did : and myself, too  but that's neither here
nor there. As for the brute himself, as you say,
who cares a farthing for him ? I took it out of
them and made them pay for it. But now
they've shaken me off, glad perhaps to get shut
of me. And if they're living or dead I don't
know, and where they are I don't know. That's
one of the penalties. I should know all about that,
if any one does : I'm no neophyte  I'm a man
well instructed. But all these are consequences,'
he added, slowly. ' They're irrelevant. They
don't touch the principle. What you say I've
gone over a thousand times. It's juvenile, it's
elementary: it doesn't touch the question at
all : on which he thinks, bless us all  though he's
scarcely out of swaddling clothes  that he
knows more than I !'

John was daunted, and he was impressed by
the terrible story thus lightly glanced at. He

did not know what to say. What he faltered
forth at last was the question of a child in the
midst of an exciting story.

And don't you know where they are ? and
can't you seek them out V

If the stranger's feelings had been affected
before, he seemed to have got the better of his
emotion now.

Do you remember,' he said, ' in the Sermon
on the Mount, how the unkind children say it is
Corban, a gift, and so get rid of the old people ?
That's how they've done with me. It is Corban,
a gift. I'm not penniless, though I'm friendless.
There was a sum of money waiting for me when
I came out : and that was all.'

But you could inquire ; you could search for
them : you could '

John felt his sense of right and wrong confused
by this narrative. Suspicion, offence,
indignation, righteous anger at all these sophistries
had succeeded each other in his
mind. Now there came over him a great wave
of pity. In every such story he had ever
heard of (he did not realise that he had never
heard such a story at first hand) there had

always been some devoted wife or sister or child
waiting to receive the miserable offender, some
sorrowful home ready to take him in. That was
always the most pathetic situation, the saddest
picture. But the dead blank of this  a sum of
money waiting for the unhappy man and no
more, no one to take him by the hand or give
him hope, was tragedy indeed. It made his
heart sick, and filled him with a confused relenting
and compunction and eagerness to do something
 to help, where no help was.

Why should 1 V said the man, with his strange
smile. * I daresay she has brought them up
very creditably, poor children. I should like
to know something about my little boy : but it
would be no advantage to him, would it, to
find his long-lost father in me ? No, I've got
below that, or above it, if you please. I content
myself with Joe  poor Joe,' here he broke into
a tremulous laugh,  whose truth you don't believe
in, but who's always been faithful, after his
sort, to me.'

John was greatly moved, more moved than he
could have thought was possible out of mere
sympathy and pity.

Oh,' he cried, ' don't content yourself with
Joe. I've no right to give you my advice, but
since you've come to me and told me all this 
When I took you to those lodgings that night, it
was because I wanted to try to get you to
thinJc  to get free of such company. Don't be
content with Joe ; you will only fall into  you
will only be led into '

Drink,' said the other. ' Very Likely : and
that's all right. I should have been dead long
ago if I hadn't been kept from it by force
for years. Now I'm old, comparatively, as the
newspapers say. And it will make short work.
All the better. That's the only thing I'm good
for now.'

Don't say that,' said John, with moisture in
the comers 'of his [eyes. * You are not an old
man yet. Do something better than that.
Work at something. I'll help you if I can 

I'll ' He paused, for this was a tremendous

thing to say, and such a risk to run as took away
the breath of [a young man so absorbed in his
own pursuits and determined on succeeding.
He paused, and the flush of a sudden struggle
came all over him, a rush of blood to his brain,

a conflict of thoughts which filled his head and
his ears with a clamour as of armies meeting,
and then he continued, with a vehemence which
was not in his ordinary nature, a burst of generous
youthful impulse unlike the ordinary wisdom
and self-restraint of his sober youth, ' I'll be a
friend to you instead of Joe !'

The convict  for he was a convict, however
he might explain his offences away  gave John
a smile which was like sunshine, and lit up all
his face. But then he shook his head.

'I am not going to accept that,' he said.

No, no  I am no friend for you. But it's true
the money will not last for ever  and I ought
to do something if I am to go on living. I don't
know what, though. They taught me a trade
down yonder, but ' he broke off with a smile.

I don't know what I am good for otherwise.'

I'll tell you,' said John, in his fervour. * You
shall come and copy these papers for me. I am
out all day, and you can do it here. I can
show you what I want in half-an-hour. They
are plans I have been making out : I've done
them on all sorts of scraps, and they must
be clearly copied. I hope they'll make my

fortune,' he said, after a moment, with a touch
of boyish simplicity, * and then perhaps Til be
able to do something more, something better for
you.'

He did not observe in the warmth of his interest
that Joe had come in while he was speaking, after
a faint knock at the door. Joe entered softly, still
with that hungry look in his eyes. He had been
more than half-an-hom- gone, and he was
very anxious to know what those two had
been talking about all this time. The words he
caught as he came in raised this curiosity to the
fever point.

They'll make his fortune,' he repeated to
himself, looking at the table and all the papers
with his wolfish, predatory eyes.

CHAPTER I.

THE GREAT SCHEME.

John's imagination, though it was so full of
other matters, was affected more than he could
understand by his strange visitor. He felt himself
going back a hundred times in the course
of the evening to this man, and those curious
sophistries which he produced, always with that
half smile in his eyes, as if he himself saw the
absurdity in them, and as if morals and reason
were something outside of himself to be treated
with entire impartiality.

John wondered how far he believed or disbelieved
what he had been saying, and whether
these dispassionate discussions of what was

VOL. iir. B

formally right or wrong took away from a conscience,
which could not be very delicate or
sensitive, anything of the burden. They set him
thinking too, following the career of such a being,
trying to understand. Drink  was not in the
decalogue, as his visitor had said : and John had
seen enough even in his short life to know with
what facility, with what innocence of evil
meaning, the first step may be taken in that
most general, most destructive of all vices  the
one which leads to so many other developments,
and which involves, as that philosopher had
allowed, consequences more terrible, and penalties
more prompt and inevitable than any other.
John was very strenuous against it, almost
bitter, having seen, as everyone has seen, its
disastrous effects upon both body and soul. And
yet, perhaps it was true what the other had
said. Perhaps there were sins which brought
no immediate evil consequences, which yet were
blacker in the sight of heaven.

He felt himself wondering, with an indulgent
feeling which was strange to him, how it was
that a man who had nothing in him of the
criminal air, a man full of thoughtfulness and

humorous observation, and a knowledge of the
workings of the mind, should have fallen into
crime, and should have sunk into those depths
and abysses of misery where he had no friend
but Joe. A man must have reduced all the
motives of human Hfe to their elements, he
must have banished all consideration of the outward
and visible, all thoughts of the alleviations,
the consolations, the comforts and stays of
existence before he could have sunk contentedly
to the bottom, and cynically, stoically, smilingly,
despairingly, made himself believe that
his brutal * mate ' was as good as any other,
being all that remained to him.

And what, John asked himself, could remain
for dj convict whose world for so many years
had been limited to the interior of a prison, and
Who in the course of working out his sentence
had lost everything? What remained? One
would suppose the poor wretch's family, somebody
who belonged to him, some wife or sister, or
daughter. And then came his story : It is Corban
a gift. John felt his own heart bleed at the
mere thought of this hopeless, succourless, yet uncomplaining
misery. A man who could manage

b2

still to smile in the face of all that, to maintain
still the attitude of a thinker, of an observer looking
on at his own entire destitution with impartial
eyes, with that calm and full understanding and
humorous despair  the young man shuddered in
the midst of his own success and prosperity, and
love and hope. Could there be a more complete
and absolute contrast"? It was so great that
his heart seemed to stand still as he contemplated
it  a distance as of heaven from hell.

The evening was spent in very close work ;
for he found that a great many details had to be
filled in and made clear before the plan, worked
out in his own brain, could be made presentable
to the experienced and critical eyes to
which he meant to submit it. And he was at
his writing-table again early in the morning,
arranging his papers so as to make the
copying easy, with much question in his own
mind whether his new protege would really
come, whether he would prove capable of such
work. John thought that in all likelihood the
man would not come, and was giving up with
a regret which seemed even to himself quite uncalled
for  regret as for a pet project which he

gave up most unwillingly  the plan of active
charity which he had so hastily adopted  when
his "visitor of the previous day suddenly appeared.
He came alone, trim and well-brushed,
but with a shaking hand, and eyes which were
red and muddy, and made his excuses with a
deprecating smile.

Vm late,' he said, * you must make allowance
for bad habits. And I've had to get up as other
people pleased for so long that I can't help indulging
a little now ; but I work quickly and
I'll soon make it up.'

There is no hurry,' said John : which was not
exactly true, nor what he would have said to
anyone else. And they worked together for the
greater part of the day, not talking much,
though John's secretary now and then paused,
leaned back upon his chair, raised his eyes to
the ceiling, and seemed on the eve of resuming
the philosophising of last night. But John was
too busy to take any notice, and his companion
presently would fall to work again.

He had no special knowledge of John's
subject, but he had a great deal of intelligence,
and asked reasonable questions and led John

into explanations which were very useful to
him, showing him how to recommend and
elucidate his plan. They had their chop together
in the middle of the day, and John
found his companion more and more agreeable.
There was something natural, familiar, in the
relations into which they fell. John was a
young man not too easy, as his fellow-workers
knew, to ' get on with.' He was very exacting
in the matter of attention to work. He was apt
to conceive a contempt for the people who didn't
care for what they were employed on  and the
young men who did just what they were compelled
to do and no more, found no favour in his eyes.
But even those periods of idling which occurred
in the work of this grey-haired secretary did not
produce that effect upon his young employer.

A gentleness of feeling, little habitual to him,
stole over John. He did not feel critical  he
felt friendly, oh, so compassionate, afraid even to
think anything that could add a pang to this
man, so forlorn and miserable, denuded of all
things. The less he made of his own wretchedness
the more profoundly did John feel it. He
kept thinking, as he gave him his instructions,.

of all that this clear intelligence must have
suffered shut up in the strait routine of a prison.
He could not copy a page or make a calculation
without some little running-over of remark,
something that brought a smile, that betrayed
the lively play of a mind unsubdued by the
most tremendous burdens, by all the heavy and
horrible experiences of such a life. How could
he have borne that, day by day and year by
year ? A sort of awe, and almost reverence of
the tragedy that this humorous, light-hearted
being must have lived through, rose in John's
musing soul.

It was not until they were finishing their little
meal together that the absence of one very
natural and usual explanation between them
struck the young man.

*By-the-by,' John said, suddenly  he was
making corrections in one of the papers and did
not raise his head  < By-the-by, it seems very
absurd. I don't even know your name.'

There was a moment's silence, and then John
looked up. He found his companion's eyes fixed
upon him with his usual half smile of observation,
and dubious humorous uncertainty. When

John met his eye he changed his position a little
with a momentary laugh.

*I have been so long out of the habit of
thinking a name necessary,' he said. * My name
is ' He paused again, and once more looked
at John, in whose face there was no suspicious
anxiety, but only a friendly alertness of
interest. Something mischievous and mirthful
lighted up in the stranger s eyes : * My name is
March,' he said.

'And mine is Sandford,' replied John.

The mischievous light went out of the other's
look. His face grew serious ; he nodded his
head two or three times with gravity.

I know that,' he said. * It is a name that I
have had a great deal to do with in my life ; but
1 don't suppose you ever heard of me.'

John shook his head. He cleared away with
his own hand the last remnants of the luncheon,
over which enough time had been expended.

*Now we'll get to work again if you are
ready he said.

He knew nothing of any March. He was
not aware that he had ever heard the name.
And then they set to work again together

pleasantly, cheerfully ; John finding something
inspiriting in the companionship for all the rest
of the afternoon.

Next day the young man presented himself at
the office, though his leave was not yet exhausted.
But he did not go naturally to his own desk, to
look if there were letters or special orders for him.
He marched straight to the door within which
the younger partner, the son of the Mr. Barrett
who had received him into the office, and whom
John had always found severe, had his throne.
The younger Mr. Barrett was far more favourable
to the young man than his father had ever
been, and never spoke to him of the hospital, or
the duty which lay upon him to repay his
mother for her kindness, which was what the
elder invariably did. It is not a subject which
is agreeable even to the most dutiful of children.
Repay your mother for all that she has done for
you! Who could bear that odious advice?
John was not angelic enough to be pleased by
it. And when he had the choice it was to Mr.
William Barrett that he betook himself He
found that personage in a very cheerful condition,
and delighted to see him.

You are the very man I want. You must
go off at once to those works at Hampstead.
They've got into a mess, and no one can clear it
up better than you. I was just wishing for
you. But your leave is not out : how is it you've
come back before your time V

Then John explained that he had been privately
working for a long time at a scheme of
Which his mind was very full. And he gave on
the spot an account of it which made the
junior partner open his eyes.

If you've done that, my boy, you've made
your fortune, and ours too,' he said, listening
with great attention to John's exposition.

That's what I hope, sir,' the young man said,
with all the confidence of youth.

Mr. William Barrett listened half-bantering,
half-believing. To think of so young a man
having hit upon an expedient which had baffled
so many older brains, seemed to him half-incredible,
and he laughed and rubbed his hands
even while he seriously inclined to hear all the
details of the scheme.

It all depends upon whether it's practicable,*
he said. ' Do you know the lie of the country ?

Have you calculated the cost even of what will
be required as a basis of operations V

I have calculated everything,' said John,
with that enthusiastic conviction which is sa
contagious. Mr. Barrett looked in his face with
a laugh, half-sceptical, half-sympathetic.

I like young men to think well of their own
schemes,' he said ; ' and I like them to plan big
works even if they should never come to anything.
Show me your papers '

I am having them copied out. I am making
the statement as clear as possible. I will bring
them as soon as they are ready.'

Oh, they are not ready, then !' Mr. Barrett
cooled perceptibly. ' You should not have said
anything about it until they were in a state to
be inspected  copying was not necessary  the
rough notes are what I should have liked to see.
You had better go off to Hampstead at once, and
when you have finished that job you can bring
me your plan, if it is ready then. There may be
something in it  one can never tell.'

John felt that this was a very summary dismissal
after the gleam of favour with which he
had been regarded. He felt as if the plan which

had been so much in the forefront of his imagination
had been cast all at once into the
background, which discouraged him for the
moment : all the more that his own judgment
agreed with what his chief said, and he felt now
that it would have been better to place the scribbles
of his rising invention before the experienced
eyes which could see at a glance what was
practicable in them, instead of the fair copy
written out in a strange hand, which his impulse
in favour of poor March had alone moved
him to make. However, he set out at once for
Hampstead, according to his orders, and there
forgot his discouragement, and even, for a time,
his great scheme, in the counter excitement of
bringing order out of chaos. There is a certain
satisfaction in finding that a piece of business
has been horribly mismanaged, when sone feels
that one can put it all right. For some days
John was fully occupied with this work, with
scarcely time even to think of anything else.
He got home at night late and very tired with
his day's work, feeling able for little more than
to give a glance at what March had been doing
and to feel the comfort and satisfaction of

having an amanuensis who arranged his papers
so carefully and copied so neatly, in a handwriting,
which, John remarked With surprise,
was very like though better than his own.
Everything was carefully arranged in the most
orderly manner, the scraps of calculation in their
proper succession, and the work going on, though
slowly. It was indeed going on very slowly,
and John never found his secretary at work
when he returned : but he reflected that in all
likelihood that philosopher, left to himself, took
things easily ; and there was no hung : and he
was too tired in the evenings when he came
back from his work to give his full attention
to anything else.

The Hampstead work occupied him for
about a fortnight. On the morning after its
completion he got up with a new start of energy,
and with a revival of interest and enthusiasm betook
himself to his great scheme. To his surprise,
however, he found the little collection of calculations,
sketches, and estimates, in the very same
condition in which he had placed them in
March's hand, all very neatly arranged and in
proper order, but without a trace of the fair copy

for which he had given instructions. John was
exceedingly startled, and did not know what to
think. Had it not been done at all ? had the
patience of the unfortunate amanuensis or his self-control
given way, and the work been thrown
up ? But then John had seen a considerable part
of it completed. He had even, as has been said,
looked over a portion of it, and remarked that
March's handwriting was like his own. What
could this mean 1 An alarm which he felt to be
absurd, at least excessive, most likely altogether
uncalled-for, took possession of him. He called
his landlady and asked her if Mr. March had
said anything, if he had left any message, if he
had been at work the day before ? John's landlady
was the impersonation of respectability :
she did not lose her temper or break forth into
abuse. But her air was that of an offended
woman, and she immediately replied that she
had been about to speak to him on the subject,
that she could not have such persons in her
house.

'Persons?' John said, with surprise, and then
Mrs. Short, keeping her composure with difficulty,
informed him that she had nothing

to say against * the old gentleman,' who she
allowed was pleasant-spoken, and looked respectable,
though she much feared he liked a
drop : but that the other was the one as she
could not abide.

John learned with some annoyance that Joe
had come daily while he was absent, and had
made his way into the room where March sat at
work  but that for the last two days neither of
them had appeared at all.

And very glad I was : for I couldn't have
stood it another day, not another day, !Mr. Sandford,
much as I think on you, sir. A fellow like
that slouching in as if the place belonged to
him: and who could tell what he oughtn't
bring  disease, or vermin, or dirt : dirt sure
enough, for Jane did nothing but sweep up
after him. Glad was I when they both went
away.'

The day before yesterday V said John, * and
no message, not a word to explain.'

Tho old gentleman came in the morning.
He had the papers out as usual, and was a-going
to begin : and then the other one came for him,
and they both went away.'

All John's questions could elicit nothing
more than this. He said to himself that March
must have taken something to finish at home ;
that perhaps he might have fallen into one of
those paroxysms of drinking with which John
was acquainted among his men. He was angry
with himself for the apprehensions that stole
into his mind. If this man had not been what
he was  a convict, a man without a character,
John said to himself, it never would have
occurred to him to fear. Joe , indeed, was not
to be trusted with spoons or even great-coats or
anything portable ; but what could Joe know
about the value of his papers ? It was ridiculous
to think of any theft. No doubt the easiest explanation
was the true one  that March had
taken the papers to complete at home. With
this he tried to content himself, and, with the
idea that after all he was but doing what he
ought to have done at once, gathered up his
own rough notes and calculations, and set out
for the office. There seemed a slight excitement
there at his appearance, or so he thought.
The vague uneasiness in his own mind no
doubt gave a certain aspect of curiosity and

commotion to the clerks in the outer office, who
looked up at him as he came in.

'Mr. Barrett, I think, was looking for you,
Sandford. You will find them both in Mr.
William's room,' said the principal of the outer
office.

John walked in, not without a growing sense
of trouble to come ; he did not know what it
might be, but he felt it in the air. Some
thunder-bolt or other was about to fall upon his
unaccustomed head.

VOL. ir.

CHAPTER II.

MR. SANDFORD'S secretary.

This was what had happened in the meantime,
while John had been about his other work. The
man whom he had so readily taken up, knowing
nothing of him except harm, had begun with
quite an elan of sympathetic industry while the
young man was with him. It was his nature so
to do ; had John remained with him all the time
he would have continued so, with a generous
desire to second and carry out all his wishes.
But, when left alone to his work, his interest
flagged. He settled everything in the most neat
and orderly way, for he was always orderly,
always ready to arrange and keep a certain
symmetry in his surroundings, a kind of gratifying
occupation which was not work.

When he had spread out his ink, his pens, his

pencil, and ruler, his blotting-paper, and all the
scraps he had to copy on the table before him,
he began his work, and wrote on for half-an-hour
at least with the air of a man who knew
no better pleasure. But when he got to the
conclusion of the page he laid down his pen
and began to think. He had a quickly working
mind, readily moved by any suggestion, taking
up a cue and running on from it in lines of
thought which amused him sometimes with a
certain appearance of originality, enough to
impose upon any chance listener, and always
upon himself. This led him into mental amplifications
of the text that was before him,
and gave him a certain pleasure at first
even in his work of copying. He thought of
two or three things which he felt would be
great improvements upon John's plan as he
went on, and at the end of each page he mused
for an hour or so upon that and a hundred other
subjects into which it ran. And then he roused
up suddenly and turned the leaf and wrote a
few sentences more : and then it occurred to
him that it was time to eat something, as his
breakfast had been a very light one.

c2

He went out accordingly, having still money
in his pocket, to get his luncheon, and lingered
a little to wash down the hot and savoury
sausage which was agreeable to a stomach not
in very good order, and met Joe, who was hanging
about on the outlook for his mate. Joe
returned with him to pilot his friend safely
through the little-known streets to the room in
which John, in his simplicity, had believed his
protege would be safe from all such influences,
and went in with him to bear him company.
Then, after March had rested from these fatigues,
his comrade aroused his interest not unskilfully.

I 'card him say,' remarked Joe, ' as them
papers would make 'is fortin.'

So he thinks, poor lad ; and I hope they
may, for he's a good lad and has been very kind
to me.'

Droll to think you can make a fortin' by
writing' on bits of paper,' said Joe, touching John's
notes with his grimy hand (and indeed that
opinion is shared by many people), ' is it story-books
or wot is it !'

Mr. March laughed with genuine enjoyment,
leaning back in his chair.

No, you ignoramus he said ; ' don't you see
its figures, calculations, things you can understand
still less than story-books ? It's a great
scheme, Joe, my fine fellow, for turning the
water out of the river and making the floods
into dry land.'

You're laughing at a poor fellow, guv'nor.
I aunt no scholar. And that'll be done with
the land ? Will he farm it, or build on't, or
that'll he do vdth it, when he's got it ? Down'
away with the river would be Utile good, as I
can see

Joe, you are a donkey,' said his mate ; ' don't
you know there's floods every year, and water
in the houses, and water on the fields, and destruction
everywhere. And this young fellow
is an engineer, and means to put a stop to
that.'

Oh I' said Joe. Then, after a pause, he added,
* It 'ud be the landlords o' them places that
would get the profit o' that.'

'Landlords and everybody; it would be a
great advantage to the country, and would make
our young man's fortune, as he says.'

If I was you,' said Joe, ' I'd go on ahead with

that. If it's you that's writing it out, you'll go
shares in the profits, 1 reckon.'

March resumed his pen at this incentive and
began once more to write.

No,' he said, shaking his hand, ' not shares ;
for I have really nothing to do with it except to
copy it : but I've no doubt he will pay me, and
pretty well too '

I daresay,' said Joe, ' if he's that sort of a
cove for finding out things, as he has a many
more in his head as well as this.'

*I should think most likely,' said the elder
man. * He's got a good brain  and plenty of
energy, and fond of his profession  which is a
good thing, Joe. Neither you nor I have been
fond of our professions, unfortunately for us.'

I ain't got one  not even a trade. I was
brought up to hang about, and do odd jobs. I
never had no justice in my bringing-up.'

Ah, that was a pity,' said his companion ;
perhaps, however, it wouldn't have mattered
much. Hanging about is the trade of a great
many men, Joe, more successful men than you
and me.'

It depends on the nature o' the jobs you gets,'

Joe remarked. He drew his chair a little nearer
to the writing-table. ' I'd get on "with that there
work, guv'nor, if I was you,' he said, nth a
nudge ; ' if there's a fortune in it for one, there
might be a fortune in it for two.'

March looked at him hazily with an afternoon
look of drowsiness and languor; but he was
tickled by the advice thus given, and resumed
the so-easily-relinquished work. Joe, so to
speak, sat or stood over him all day, encouraging
and stimulating. The work went on slowly,
as John remarked in the evening, but still it
went on. The next day and the next passed in
much the same way, except that Joe, ' hanging
about ' as usual, managed to meet his comrade
on his way to instead of after luncheon, and
so secured a clear head and less drowsy condition
for the afternoon. At last, chiefly by the
exertions of this very unusual overseer, the work
was concluded, and then Joe spoke his mind
more clearly.

It's you as has had most part of this work,
guv'nor, but it's he as'll get the pay.'

That's the way of this world, Joe,' said his
comrade. But he added after a moment, vith a

magnanimous air, * Not in this case, however 
for I have only copied, I have not invented 
though I may have given a few hints

He had given these hints only to himself,
various suggestions having occurred to him in
the course of his copying, which in some instances
he had inserted with the wildest ignorance
of practicability in his text.

I make no doubt,' said Joe, ' as the best of it
come out o' your head, guv'nor. You was
always the one as had the brains ; and it's you
as should profit by it. A young fellow like
that's got no occasion to make his fortune at his
age. It ain't good for him. When you make
your fortune like that right off, it puffs you up
with pride, and it stops you doing more.
Ain't that true ? Why, you knows it is ;  chaplains
and parsons and all that sort say so. It's
good for you to be kep' down when you're
young. It would be a thousand pities to spoil
a young fellow's life like, with getting everything
that he wants first thing afore he's had
any experience. That's what has always been
said to me.'

There is some truth in it, no doubt,' said March.

A deal of truth, guv'nor. I suppose, now,
you've just got to take them papers to somebody
as deals in things like that, and get money for
'em down on the nail V

He will take them to some great engineering
firm said the other. 'And probably he would
not part with them for a sum " down on the
nail," as you say. Such a scheme as this he'd
be sure to have some share in it. He would
superintend the carrying out of his plans, if you
understand that. It might be years of work for
him, and the most excellent beginning. I should
think he deserved it, too,' said John's amanuensis,
looking round approvingly, ' for there is every
evidence that he's a fine fellow, and I know he
has been very kind to me.'

And you might be very kind to 'im, in that
way,' said Joe.

I could be  kind to hiui ' I don't think
I've very much in my power one way or other,'
said March, with a smile and a sigh.

Guv'nor,' said Joe, 'you never was one as
took things upon you. Give up to other folks,
that was allays what you would do. But
what's the good? You don't get no thanks for

it. If 1 was in your place  as I'm a donkey,
and good for nothing, but you ain't, and could
do a lot if you liked  I know what I'd do.'

March smiled benignantly enough upon the
poor dependent, whose flatteries were not unpleasant
to him.

And what would you do, if you were me,
which is not a very likely change V he said.

No, it ain't likely. Them as is born asses,
dies asses  and t'other way too. It ain't for me
to tell a clever man like you, and that has got
a fine education, and born a gentleman.'

Alas !' said March, shaking his head ; ' alas !
it hasn't come to much, has it ? Your mate, my
poor fellow, and one without a friend but you,
or a chance in the wide world '

Don't say that, guv'nor. Here's a chance,
if I ain't more of a born ass than ever I thought
a chance for a fortune, and for doing the
young fellow a good turn. How's he, at his
age, to show up a big thing like this? There's
nobody as would believe it of him. They'd say,
*' Oh, get along, you boy." They'd never take
him in earnest at all.'

'I do him a good turn! I, a broken man.

without character or anything ; without a friend I
and he a fine, respectable young fellow, well
thought of, and clever, and knowing more than
I ever knew at my best. That's nonsense,
Joe.'

Xot if you'll think a bit, guv'nor ; I hear
him say them papers is my fortune  and then I
hears him 'eave a sigh. He's not one of the
pushing ones, he isn't. He knows as they're
worth a deal, but he hasn't the face to say
"Look here, you give me so much for this."
Guv'nor, I know you're a man as will do a deal
for a friend. Why don't you take 'em just as
they lies there, and take 'em to some person as
deals in that sort of thing, and just up and ask
'em that'll they give for this ? " There's a
young un," says you, " as understands everything
about it and is just the man to work 'em
out." If I were in your place, guv'nor, that's
what I would do.'

But, my good fellow,' said March, ' those
papers belong to the young man here, not tome.'


Guv'nor,' said Joe, ' I don't doubt as the best
that's in that long story as you're writing out

there comes out o' your own 'eat. It stands to
reason as you know more about it than a young
feller like 'im

The philosophical gull, who never learned wisdom,
was touched by this in the most assailable
point.

It's true,' he said, ' Joe,  though how you've
found it out I can't tell  that I have carried out
a suggestion or two, and put in something that
seemed to me the logical consequence of what
he said. But nothing practical, for I don't
understand the practical part. And how does
that sort of thing give me any real claim V

Guv'nor,' repeated Joe, ' you needn't tell
me. I know you, and how you're always
giving up to other folks. It's half yours and
more, I'll be bound. And the best you could do
for the young 'un is just what I tells you. I'm
practical, I am. If it was anything in my way,
I'd do it like a shot : but it ain't in my way.
The outsides o' things has a deal of power in
this world. You in your fine respectable suit,
sou can go where you please like a prince.
But me, it's *' Be off with you  get along with
Job ;" they won't say nothing of that sort to you.

And you'll just make the young man's fortune,
that's what you'll do. Say as he's the very one
to look after the works and knows all the practical
part. They ought to settle something
handsome on you at once as your share and
take him on as foreman, or whatever it is ; and
in that way you'd both get the best of it and
all done well.'

The convict philosopher shook his head. He
rose up from the table and put the papers away.
He admired the neatness of his own manuscript
extremely, and he was of opinion that he had
done John a great deal of good by the suggestions
which he had worked out and the additions
which he had made. It was possible that Joe
might be right, and that the best thing he coidd
do for his young employer was what the poor
faithful fellow had suggested. He had himself
a great admiration, after having been deprived
of it so long, of his respectable suit and appearance,
and there was a great deal of plausibility,
he thought, in what the man said. But it was
still clear to him that John might not think so.
He was not very rigid himself upon any point of
morals, after his long practice in thinking everything

over, and blurring out to his own satisfaction
the lines of demarcation between right and
wrong ; but he could understand that the young
man, not having his experience, might think
otherwise : and he had even a sympathy for his
want of philosophical power in that respect. So
he put everything aside very tidily, and put his
hand upon Joe's arm and drew him away, shaking
his head, but not angry at the good fellow's
insistence. There was something in it  and it
might doubtless be under certain circumstances
the most kind thing that could be done for the
young man. Still there was the difficulty that
the young man might not see it in that light.
And Mr. March accordingly put up the papers,
and taking Joe by the arm, with a benevolent
smile and a shake of the head, led him away.

It has been said that John's rooms were in
Westminster, not far from Great George Street,
where the offices of Messrs. Barrett were, and
where, as the reader needs not to be informed,
various other engineers' offices are to be seen.
March's eye caught the names involuntarily as he
passed by. It was not that he was trifling with
temptation, for he did not consider Joe's suggestion

as temptation. He was only turning over
the possibilities in his mind, and merely as a
matter of amusement, an exercise of fancy, just
as he might have counted how many white
horses passed in the street, or which windows
were curtained and which not, he read over to
himself the names on the doors. Messrs.
Barrett's was one which he weighed but afterwards
rejected, as not liking the sound of it.
Another quite near had a name that pleased him
better  Messrs. Spender and Diggs. What a
ludicrous combination ! He laughed to himself
at it, as it caught his eye. Spender and Diggs
it was highly suggestive, which was a thing
dear to his mind at ease. It clung to his
memory. He turned it round the other way to
see how it would sound. Diggs and Spender :
that was still more absurd.

And all the time Joe's voice was running on
with arguments, the form of which, simple and
subtle and couched in that language of the
rough Which is always more or less picturesque,
amused his companion much. Joe had penetrated
sufficiently into the mind of his mate to know
how to address him. And that mind began to

work upon the matter, with the amusing addition
of the name of Spender and Diggs thrown in,
and a great deal of pleasurable occupation in a
question entirely characteristic and full of the
difficulties he loved.

The result was that March appeared in the
morning as the landlady had said, and spent a
short time, but only a very short time in John's
sitting-room. The copy was completed, carefully
folded up, and put in a large envelope.
All John's notes, the originals, were scrupulously
left in their place, and in perfect order. For in
some points his conscience was of scrupulous
nicety, and John's notes were certainly his own
and not to be tampered with. As he was going
out with the large envelope in his breast pocket,
John's landlady appeared with the remonstrance
which had been on her lips for some days.

You, sir, I've got no objections  a gentleman
that's pleasant spoken and respectable even if he
ain't my lodger, but only a friend, that's a different
thing : but your that man '

My servant V said March, with a quick sense
of the comicality of the situation.

Well, sir,' said the woman, with hesitation ;

'I wouldn't keep on a man like that in my
service if I was you.'

He is not as bad as he seems,' the philosopher
said, with a twinkle in his eye, ' but I foresaw
your objections, and you shall never see him
more.'

If that's so, of course, there isn't another
word to be said.'

That's so ; you may calculate upon it as a
certainty,' the pleasant spoken gentleman said ;
and with a wave of his hand and a chuckle of
enjoyment he went away.

The events thus described will explain the scene
which John to his consternation and amazement
encountered when he stepped into Mr. William's
room at the office, and found himself confronted
by both members of the firm.

VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER III.

JOHN ON HIS TRIAL.

Both the partners were together in Mr. William's
room. They had been having some sort of a
consultation, it was evident, and both looked
very grave. When John walked in at his ease,
though a little anxious, they both turned round
upon him with very serious faces  the younger
man with a grieved air, the elder one rigid and
solemn, like a judge before whom a criminal
has appeared, whose conviction has been pre-accomplished,
and who has come up for judgment.
Mr. William Barrett had the air of hoping
that some more evidence might be discovered
which would possibly exonerate the accused, but
his father's face showed no such hope. On the
contrary, something of the ' I always knew how
it would be ' was in his look, as he turned
sharply round at the opening of the door.

John was greatly surprised : but still more indignant
at this reception of him. He walked
up to the table at which Mr. Barrett sat. Mr.
William stood with his back to the dusty fireplace
close by. Neither of them spoke, but
looked at him with that overwhelming effect of
silent observation which makes the steadiest
footstep falter, and conveys embarrassment and
awkwardness into the most self-controlled being.
John said * Good-morning,' and they both
acknowledged it ; Mr. William by an abrupt nod,
his father by the most solemn inclination of his
head. The young man did not know what to
say. He stood and looked at them, wondering,
indignant, taking his little packet of papers out
of his pocket. What had he done to be so regarded
?  or had he perhaps come into the midst
of some consultation about other matters with
which they were preoccupied ? He said,

Is there anything the matter V at last, saying
to himself that it was impossible he could bethe
cause of such concentrated solemnity, and
looking at the younger partner with a half smile.

There is a great deal the matter,' said Mr.
Barrett.

d2

Yes,* said his son ; ' it's rather a grave business,
Sandford. 1 don't see it in quite the same
light as my father. Still, it's at least a great
want of confidence, a strange slur upon us, whoso
far as I know, have nothing to reproach ourselves
with in respect to you.'

Certainly not, sir,' said John : * you have
always been very kind and given me every
opportunity ; but I hope on my part 1 have not
done anything to make you suppose I am ungrateful,
or have not appreciated my advantages.'


We have nothing to complain of so far as the
works are concerned. I think, sir, I may say
that r

It is a point on which I should not like to
commit myself,' said the senior partner. ' These
works at Hampstead, so far as I hear '

They went wrong when he was away. He
can't be blamed for that : he came back before
his time and went over at once, and made everything
shipshape again. He can't be blamed for
that. Whatever went wrong was after his leave
began.'

'An engineer,' said the elder gentleman, in

his rigid way, ' who means to do justice to his
profession, doesn't want leave. The works are
his first interest  he has no occasion to go away
to amuse himself.'

Oh, come, father! you're making that a fault
which is no fault  and we have a ground of
offence which is real enough. Sandford, you
came here the other day and told me of a
scheme you had for draining the Thames valley.
You may say I was disposed to pooh-pooh it a
bit ; but I didn't say more than one does naturally
with a young fellow's first ideas, which are
always so magnificent. Do you think there
was a reason in anything I said for transferring
the papers as you've done to another firm?'

I transfer them to another firm V cried John,
you must be dreaming. 1 have them here.'

You have them there ? Then what do
Spender and Diggs mean by spreading it abroad
that they have had such a scheme sent to them
by one of the pupils in our office, but which we
had not enterprise to take up V

Spender and Diggs I' John was so well acquainted
with the name of the rival firm that it
raised no sense of humour in his mind ; but something

quite different, that sense of rivalry which
is so strong between the pupils and partisans of
different schools. He made a little pause, staring
at his younger employer. And then he said,
I don't know the least in the world what you
mean.'

There is no ambiguity at all about my
meaning. I say that Spender and Diggs are
putting it about everywhere that a great
scheme, worked out by one of our pupils, for the
draining of the Thames valley, has been offered
to them.'

John's countenance grew pale with horror and
dismay. He cried out, sharply,

Good heavens ! Why, it cannot be Jorrocks
or Green V

Don't add slander to your other sins,' said
Mr. Barrett, severely, ' or endeavour to take away
the character of young men who are quite
incapable '

So they are,' said John, in all good faith,
quite incapable. That is true, sir ; but I could
not help thinking for a moment that I might have
left some of my papers about, and that they

might have picked them up  but you're right, sir;
they couldn't do it  that is a great relief to my
mind.'

The young manwasso undisguisedly relieved
and so perfectly straightforward in the whole
matter, that William Barrett began to doubt.
He cast a glance at his father, who, however, sat
rigid and showed no relenting.

Sandford,' said the younger man, ' you seem
to speak very fair ; but there's this fact against
you  no one supposed it was anyone's scheme
but yours ; you are the only man in our office
capable of anything of the sort ; we all know
that. And it's no crime ; but it is a home thing-all
the same  a caddish, currish sort of thing 
to abandon the people who have trained you
and done you every justice, and carry what I
have no doubt you believe would be profitable
work to another house.'

I  carry work to another house ! It is quite
impossible that you should believe that of
me. I might have thought it if you had said
I had killed somebody said John, with a faint
smile of ridicule, * for that's a thing that might

be done in a moment's passion  but carry work
to another house ! You cannot believe that of
me.'

What has believing to do with it,' said Mr.
Barrett, * when there are the facts that can be
proved? Don't lose time bandying words, Will.
Sandford must see that after this there can be
no further connection between us. He knows,
of course, that his place at Spender and Eggs'
is safe enough. Let him have what is owing to
him and let him go. I took him without a
premium for his mother's sake, and for the same
reason  for Mrs. Sandford is a very worthy
woman  I've given him every advantage,
although I expected something of this sort all
along.'

Why should something of this sort have
been expected from me? What have I done?
I have done no wrong  I have all my papers in
my pocket. You said you would rather have
the rough notes. Here they are, every one,'
cried John, taking out the papers from the
envelope and throwing them done on the table ;
here are all the calculations, diagrams, and
drawings, and all. And now, Mr. Barrett, there

is the question to settle which you've just
mentioned, which you raised long ago,' said the
young man, with a flush of pride and anger.
That wretched premium ! It shall be paid
before the banks close to-day. That, at all
events, I can settle at once. You have flung
it in my teeth more than once when I was
powerless. Now I have it in my own hands.
Your premium, of which you have thought so
much, shall be paid to-day.'

Stop there, Sandford,' said the younger
partner. ' Father, I beg don't say anything
more  let us understand the more important
matter first. You say you have brought us all
your papers here. x\nd yet I am informed from
Spender and Diggs that they have your scheme,
all carefully written out and elaborated '

Ah I' cried John, With a keen and quick
sensation as if he had been startled and could
not draw his breath.

Of course the information doesn't come
direct from them. They wouldn't be likely todo
anything so friendly. Prince heard all
about it from one of their men. We can have
him in, and you can ask him any questions you

like. Even if I hadn't known by what you told
me, I should have felt sure it was you who had
done it said William Barrett, secure in his own
command of the situation. Then he added to
the man who answered his bell, ' Ask Mr.
Prince to step this way.'

Mr. Prince had stepped that way ; he had
walked up to Mr. Barrett's table, in his precise
little manner, smiling ingratiatingly when he
met his master's eye, and had told his story
before John said anything more. He stood a
little behind Prince, so startled that he could
scarcely understand what was being said, though
he heard it all  recalling his recollections and
making it plain to himself what had happened.
He had not been in the habit of doing rash
things, nor was he one who gave his confidence
and trust easily ; but as he stood in the office,
hearing the clerk's glib story  and feeling himself
like the spectator of the strangest little
scene on the stage, instead of standing, so to
speak, on his trial, and listening to the evidence
of the principal witness against him  a rush of
suggestions was going through John's head.

The extraordinary fact which never had

seemed at all strange to him before, that he had
taken into his house and into his confidence a
man of whom he knew nothing, except that he
was a returned convict, showed itself all at once
to him in the clearest light. Even in his
suddenly awakened consciousness of what had
happened, he felt that to call the man whom he
had thus trusted a returned convict, hurt himself
as if it had been a stab. It was on this
ground he had made acquaintance with him,
because he was a man who had been punished
for crime, and might fall into crime again if
he were not bolstered up by friendly help and
saved from temptation. This was what John
had attempted to do, and, lo, here was the
result. He came gradually to himself through
the hot and painful confusion of this critical
moment, and put a few questions to the clerk
which left no doubt on the subject. When Mr,
Prince's examination was over, William Barrett
turned to the young man, his natural good
nature and friendliness modified by the triumph
of having gained a complete victory.

Sandford,' he said, ' I don't pretend to understand
your conduct one way or another. You

came back from your holiday before your time,
to tell me of this scheme of yours. I neither
said nor did anything to discourage you, more
than one does naturally to a young man. You
were engaged in our work, and bred up in our
office : that should have been reason enough
against going to any other firm.'

It is a thing which never entered into my
mind.'

But it did into your actions, apparently,'
said the junior partner, with a not unnatural
sneer.

It is what r have expected all along,' said
Mr. Barrett, piously folding his hands. ' It is
what his mother expected, an excellent, much-tried
woman, for whose sake '

Prince, you may go, said William Barrett,
and, for heaven's sake, father, stick to the question.
Don't bring in other things which have
nothing to do with it.'

John had a great struggle with himself. The
foregone conclusion against him with which he
had so often been confronted was the one thing
which overcame his good sense and self-control.
Ever since his grandfather's death it had been

intolerable to him, and it was all he could do to
suppress the boiling-over of passionate resistance
to this systematic injustice ; but with a great
effort he restrained himself. He stopped the
departing witness with a wave of his hand.

Let Prince stay,' he said, in a choked voice.
I think I perceive how all this has occurred.
Look here, did your informant say who took the
papers to Spender and Diggs ? Did he say it
was I V

1 don't know,' said Prince, ' that he knew
you.'

I have not the least doubt that you asked
him who it was. If he did not know me, he
must at least have known something about me.
Did he say it was T V

Well,' said the witness, somewhat unwillingly,
' he didn't know who it was. He said he
thought it was an elderly man ; but there are
many people always coming and going about
the office, and he couldn't be sure.'

Do you think it likely,' said John, * that I
could have gone to Spender and Diggs' office
without being recognised V

Sandford, this is all quite unnecessary,' said

William Barrett.  I did not accuse you of going
to Spender and Diggs' office. You might have
employed any agent ; such a thing is not necessarily
 indeed, it's not at all likely to be done by
the principal himself.'

Then this is what I'm accused of,' said John.
I came and told you of my scheme, for as much
as it's worth. You did discourage me, Mr.
William, but good naturedly, telling me to goto
Hampstead in the first place. 1 obeyed you,
and finished that work last night. This morning
I come to you with my papers in my pocket,
ready to submit them to you according to your
own instructions; and I am met with accusations
like a criminal. Is it likely that between hands
I should have gone to Spender and Diggs? Why
should I come here now with my original papers
if I had in the meanwhile sent a copy elsewhere ?
Do Spender and Diggs say they refused them ?
What are they supposed to have said ? Why
am I supposed to have come, the first moment I

was free, back here V

Were you told they were refused V
'No, sir,' said Prince. *0n the contrary, they
were taken into consideration, and thought to

have something in them. That was what was
reported to me.'

Why, then,' said John, ' should 1 come back
here?'

There was a momentary pause ; and then
William Barrett broke forth again.

What's the use of talking of motives and
reasons and why you did it? Evidently you did
do it, and there's an end of the matter.'

And of our connection,' said his father. ' A
young man that's so false to his employers can
have no more to do in our works or our office.'

As you please, sir,' said John. He had made
a pause of indignation, staring at his accusers,
dumb with the passion of a thousand things he
had to say  but what was the use ? He shut
his hips close, growing crimson with the strong
effort of self-restraint. ' I am sorry this should
be the end,' he said, controlling himself desperately,
' but, of course, if that is your opinion, I
have nothing to say. Good-bye, sir,' the young
man cried, unable to keep back that Parthian
arrow, ' it must be a pleasure to you that I have
justified your certainty, and gone to the bad at
the end.'

Sandford !' said William Barrett, as John
hurried out ; but the young man was too much
excited to pay any attention. The junior
partner followed him to the door of the office
calling after him, ' Sandford  I say Sandford 
Sandford !'

But John paid no attention. He rushed downstairs
two or three steps at a time, and over the
threshold which he had crossed so often with the
familiarity of every day life. His feet spurned
it now. He seemed to be shaking the dust
from him as the rejected messengers were to do
in the Gospel. No better servant had ever been,
no more dutiful pupil, and he was conscious of
this. He had never been without a thought
indeed of advancement in his own person, of
carrying out a work of his own : but all his
knowledge, the knowledge acquired out of their
limits in the privacy of his own self-denying and
studious youth, had been at the service of his
masters and teachers unreservedly at all times.
He had never thought of sparing himself, of doing
as little as was possible, which was the way
of many of his fellow-pupils. He had done always
as much as was in him, freely and with

devotion. And as the climax of so many faithful
years, he had brought to them this firstfruits
of his maturing thought, this plan so
long cogitated, which had been to him what
a poem is to a poet  the work in which
all his faculties, not only of calculation and
practical reason, but of thought and imagination
had been concentrated. It was to be the
climax, and now it was the end. Instead of
sharing his honours with them and bringing
them substantial profit, as he intended, he was
sent forth with shame as a traitor, a false servant,
a disloyal man. John's heart burned
within him as, holding his head high, and spurning
the very ground, he marched out of that
familiar place.

The sting of injustice was sharp in his soul.
He said to himself that he would offer no
further defence, that he would not attempt
to prove the deception that had been put
upon him, or how it was that he had been
robbed at once of his scheme and honour. If it
could be believed for a moment by people who
had known him for years that he was so guilty, he

VOL. m. K

would make no attempt to explain. If ever an
accusation was unlikely, unreasonable, inconsistent
with every law, it was this.

CHAPTER IV.

DEFEATED AND WRONGED.

He had walked a long way before he came to
himself out of those whirling circles of thought
in which the mind gets involved when it is
suddenly stung by a great wrong, or startled
by a poignant incident. With this strong pressure
upon him, he had gone right away into
the Strand, and along that busy Hue of streets
into the din and crowds of the city, feeling, like
a deaf man, that the noise around made it more
possible to hear the voice of his ovn thoughts,
and to endure the clangour of his heart beating
in his ears. He walked fast, not turning to the
right nor to the left, straight through the bewildering
throng in which every man had his own
little world of incident, of sentiment, and reeled





OHWERsmr Of line

ing undisturbed by the contact of others on
every side.

At first it had been the keen tooth of that
wrong, the undeserved disgrace that had fallen
upon him, vihich had occupied all his sensations.
But by degrees other thoughts came in. He
had left Edgeley in haste to strike his blow for
fortune and reputation, though he was so young,
to qualify himself for a new phase of life, to put
himself nearer at least to the level of Elle, to
justify his own pretensions to her. The scene
in Mrs. Egerton's room suddenly flashed before
him as he walked, adding another and yet
sharper blow to that which he had already
received. He had said that he would succeed,
that he should be rich, that he had the ball at
his foot. This morning when he came out of
his lodgings he had felt the ball at his foot.
How could it be otherwise? He knew the
value of his own work. It was a work
much wanted, upon which the comfort of a
district, the value of the property in it, and
the lives of its inhabitants might depend.
And he felt convinced that he had hit upon
the right way of remedying this fault of nature

which had given so much trouble and cost so
much suffering. What hours and hours he had
thought of it and turned it over ! What quires
of paper he had covered with his calculations !
It did not perhaps seem romantic work ; but all
the poetry in John's nature had gone into it It
had been EUy's work, too, though EUy could
not have done one of all those endless mathematical
exercises. It had occupied his mind for
two at least of those early lovely years in which
imagination is so sweet : and his imaginations
had been sweet, though they had to do, you
would have said, with things not lovely, cuttings
and embankments, and drawings, and
figures upon figures, armies of them, calculations
without end. His very walks and the
exercise he took, the boating which was his
favourite recreation when he had any time, had
all been inspired and accompanied by this.
While he waited outside a lock, he was busy
calculating its fall, and the weight and force of
the water and studying the banks high or low,
for his pui-pose. He had grown learned in the
formations of the district, in its geology and its
productions with the same motive. He had marked

unconsciously where wood could be got at and
bricks made for the future works, and when his
eye travelled over the river flats to the line of
cottages with dull lines upon their lower storey,
showing the flood-mark to which the water had
risen, there rose in him a fine fervour as he
thought that by-and-by all such dangers should
come to an end. Thoughts frivolous and unworthy,
the light and trifling mental dissipations
that beguile young minds, and the insidious
curiosities and temptations with which they
play, were all crowded out by these imaginations,
which were so practical, so professional,
so enthusiastic, so full of the poetry of reality.
This was the way in which many months had

been occupied. And now !

It was a long time before John had sufficiently
calmed himself down, and got the mastery of
those whirling circles of ever-recurring thought
which almost maddened him at first, to face the
situation as it now stood. At first, and for a
long time, it appeared to him that ruin as complete
as it was undeserved had overwhelmed
him ; his good fame seemed to be gone, and the
bitterness of the thought that people who knew

him, and knew him so well, and who had years
of experience of his integrity and faithful service,
should have at once believed him guilty of
such treachery, seemed to drown him in a hopeless
flood : for how should he convince strangers
of his honour if they had no faith in it ? or how
attempt to clear himself professionally when
two of the chief authorities in his profession
believed him to have behaved so ? Would it
be the best way, the only way, to shake the dust
from off his feet and rush away to the end of
the world where a man could work, if ifc were
the roughest navvy work, and be free from false
accusation and the hon-or of seeing himself
falsely condemned. But, then, Elle I John
plunged again deeper than ever into that blackness
of darkness. He had boasted in his self-confidence
of the success which was awaiting
him, of the certainty of his prospects. He remembered
now how Mrs. Egerton had shaken
her head. And now here he stood with his
success turned into failure, his confidence into
despair ; the people who knew him best refusing
to hear him. He had no fear that Elle would
refuse to hear him : but who else would believe ?

They would not, indeed, believe that he had
been treacherous, or played a villain's part, as
the Barrettss did ; but they would think that he
had mistaken his own powers, that he was not
what he imagined, that his account of himself
was a boy's brag, and not a sober estimate of
what he knew he could do. And how convince
them, how remedy the evil ? Was it possible
that any remedy would ever be found ?

He had gained a little calm when he began to
ask himself this question. Out of the whirl of
painful thoughts and passionate entanglement of
all the perplexities round him, he suddenly came
to a clear spot from which he could look behind
and after. He found himself on the
bridge crossing the river, having got there he
scarcely knew how, coming back in the direction
of the office and of his lodgings after a feverish
round through all the noise of London. As he
walked across the bridge, there suddenly came
to him a recollection of his first beginning  how
he had paused there with the letter in his hand
with which he had been sent to the Messrs.
Barrett by his mother. He had paused, angry
and wounded and sore, and looked down upon

the outward-bound ships, and for a moment had
thought of forsaking this cold, unkindly world
in which he had no longer any home or anyone
who loved him, of tossing the letter into the
river and going his own way, and taking upon
himself the responsibility of his own life. He
had not carried out that wild resolution. He
had swallowed all his repugnance, his pride,
his rebellious feelings, and accepted the more
dutiful way : and till now he had never repented
that decision. He paused again, and before him
lay the same great stream leading out into the
unknown, the same ships ready to can him
thither, into a world all strange, where nobody
would know John Sandford had ever been
accused of falsehood. The repetition of this
scene and suggestion gave him a certain shock,
and brought him back sharply to himself. John
Sandford, John May  he had not then been
sure which he was  his heart had risen against
the woman who was his mother, who had distrusted
him and taken from him his father's
name. Now he was more or less ashamed of
the boyish rashness which had set him against
her decision in this respect. He was John

Sandford now, beyond any question. What if,
perhaps, this fever of indignation and despair
which was in his veins might die down and
pass away, as the other had done ?

This brought him back to more particular
questions. He had felt no doubt from the first
moment as to what had really happened : that
the man whom he had so foolishly trusted,
whom he had no reason to trust, had played
him false, and carried off the copy which John
had given him to do, out of what had appeared
to him pure benevolence, Christian charity 
to the rival firm. That was perfectly clear to
him, though in his indignation and fury he
would not pause to explain. If it was explained
ever so, it would not restore the scheme thus
betrayed to its original importance, or place it,
as he had intended, in all its novelty and originality
and ingeniousness, in the hands best able
to carry it out. In any case, his secret was
broken, his ideas exposed to curious and eager
competitors who might, and probably would,
take instant advantage of them. John still felt
that he was ruined, however it might turn out.
And yet he might clear his honour at least, and

show how he had been himself betrayed. He
had begun to acknowledge this possibility, to
breathe more freely, to feel the fumes of passion
dispersing, and the real landscape, chilled and
grey with all the rosy illusions of hope disappearing,
yet still real and solid under his feet,
once more coming into his sight, when he became
suddenly aware of an approaching figure,
very unwelcome, most undesirable to meet at
such a moment, yet not to be ignored. Why
should he turn up precisely now, that chance
acquaintance to whom John had committed
himself in the impatience of his boyhood, and
with whom he had a sort of irregular, fictitious
intercourse, more congenial to Montressor's profession
and ways than to his own ? It brought
a sort of ludicrous element into his trouble to
meet this man, to whom he was not himself but
another, a being who had never existed save for
that one night on which he had enacted a sort
of little single-scene tragic-comedy as John
May. Montressor was not a person to be eluded :
he came forward with his hands stretched out,
his shiny hat bearing down over the heads of
the other passengers upon John, as if it had

been a flag carried aloft, with the directed and
straightest impulse.

Me dear young friend he said, ' me brave
boy ! how glad I am to see ye.'

Montressor was a little better dressed than
usual. The shiny hat was new, or almost new,
though it had somehow caught the characteristics
of the old one. His coat was good, his
well-brushed aspect no longer giving so distinct
an accentuation to his shabbiness. He put his
arm within John's in the fervour of having much
to say.

Fate's been good to me,' he said, * and when
it's so in great things 'tis also in small. Here
have I been watching for ye, wondering would
ye pass hereabouts, to tell ye, me young friend,
that once again good luck has come Montressor's
way.'

I'm glad to hear it,' said John ; but what he
felt was only a sort of dull half pang additional,
a, sense that good luck might now come in anyone's
way save his, which was closed to it forevermore.


That I'm sure of,' said the actor, * it isn't
very much we've seen of ye, John May, and I

don't even know where to find ye. To tell the
truth, in me shabbiness and me poverty I didn't
care to know : for meeting you in the street is
one thing and pursuing you to your lodgings
another. No. Montressor was not one to
shame his friends, even though 'twas virtuous
poverty. But rejoice with me, me young friend
that phase is over, never, I hope, to come me
way again.'

Have you got an engagement V asked John,
wondering and reflecting upon the shabbiness
which was as pronounced as ever one short week
before.

Better than that,' said the actor. He put his
hand to his eyes with a mixture of fiction yet
reality. * Me eyes are full and so's my heart.
Pardon me, young man. Once you saved her
fife  never knowing that small thing was the
future Rachel, the future Siddons. Me dear
friend ! it is Edie that has an engagement. Edie,
me child !'

Edie !' cried John, and then he laughed
aloud at the thought. Edie, that baby, to
whom he had sent something the other day to
buy a doll.

Indeed, 'tis Edie, no one else. Ye haven't
seen her for a great while. Ye don't know that
she's sixteen or near it, and a genius. She hasa
right to it, sir. It's hers by inheritance. My
child, and her mother's  who under the name
of Ada Somerset took leading parts for years 
I don't grudge it to her, me dear May. She has
had devoted care. She has had a training, me
dear sir, that began in her cradle  and now !'
He laid his hand upon the heart that no doubt
was as full of real emotion as if he had not had
a word to say on the subject. ' And she is a
good girl, and the ball at her foot,' he added, ina
tremulous tone, with water standing in his
eyes.

The ball at her foot,' said John, with a harsh
laugh. * So had I yesterday  or, at least, so I
thought.'

'There's something happened to you, me
brave boy ?

Nothing's happened : at least, nothing that's
wonderful or out of the way. I'm supposed to
have broken trust and disgraced myself. It's
like the things that happen in your stage plays.
I'm condemned for something I never thought

of, and robbed by one to-strom I tied to be
kind. Go home and take care of Edie. Never
let her try to be kind to anyone,' John said,
it's fatal ; it's nothing less than ruin.'

Me dear boy, open your mind to me, and relieve
it of that perilous stuff. It is the best way.
Come, tell me. Montressor has but little in his
power even now, but what he can do is always
at his friends' disposal ; and, if there's a villain to
be hunted down, trust me, me brave boy  I'll
hunt him to the death !'

Why should I trouble you with my vexations
?' cried John. But in the end he yielded
to the natural satisfaction of recounting aU that
had happened to a sympathetic  almost too
sympathetic  ear. Montressor's was no indifferent
backing of his friend. He threw himself
with his whole soul into the wrongs of the
unfortunate young man. Indeed, so entirely
did he enter into John's case that John felt himself
restored to hopeful life, half by the sympathy,
and perhaps a Httle more than half by the
genial absurdity that seemed to gode into
everything from Montressor's devoted zeal.
The light came back to the skies more completely

in this humorous way than if some
happy incident had restored it. He began to
see through the exaggeration of his friend's
feeling, that after all there was something
laughable in his own despair, and that a man
is not ruined in a moment in any such stagy
and artificial way.

While this change began to operate, and
while John poured forth his tale, he pursued
the familiar way to his lodgings instinctively,
leading the sympathetic Montressor with him
without question asked. The actor had never
before penetrated so far. It had not occurred
to John to invite him, especially as he had never
informed him of his real name. The fact that
he had been so foolish as to call himself May to
this early acquaintance had raised a barrier
between them more effectual than any barrier
of prudence or sense that such a friendship was
not one to be cultivated. But in the fervour of
his confidence, and in the enthusiasm of Mon-treason's
sympathy, the consolation of it and the
ridicule of it, everything else was forgotten.
And John found himself at his own door with
his faithful sympathiser before he was aware.

He had opened it and bidden his friend to enter
when his eye was suddenly caught by a slouching
figure on the opposite side of the street
which aroused another set of feelings altogether.
John thrust Montressor in, calling on him to sit
down and wait, and then turning with a bound
rushed across the street in the direction of this
lounger, who, suddenly taking fright, had turned
too, and was hun-king along as fast as a wavering
pair of legs would carry him. The legs
were unsteady, and Httle to be depended upon,
though sudden panic inspired them, and they
were worth nothing in comparison with youth
and hot indignation now suddenly set on their
track. The chase lasted but a minute. John
made up to the fluttering, retreating figure, and
was just about, with outstretched hand, to seize
him, when the pursued suddenly tuned round,
meeting him with a rueful, deprecating, yet
woefully smiling face, in which the same ridicule
which had been rising in John's mind
towards himself was blended with a sort of
helpless despair and insinuating prayer for mercy.

Stop,' cried his amanuensis, the traitor who
had ruined him, with that rueful smile, * I'll go

VOL. III. F

with you anywhere  take me where you please.
I  I can't defend myself.'

What have you done with my papers?' cried
John, trembling with hurry and rage, yet subdued,
he could not tell how.

I'll tell you,' said the other. ' I'll tell you
everything. Take me somewhere and let me
tell you.'

The young man laid his hand upon the old
man's arm, and led him back, feeling somehow
his heart melt towards the unresistant sinner.
Montressor stood at the door watching this
pursuit and capture. He waited for them as
they came forward, his face expressing a sort of
stupefaction of wonder. John only remembered
the spectator when he reached the door with
his prisoner, and found this startled countenance
confronting him.

Why, May !' cried he, turning from one to
another. ' Why, May !'

CHAPTER V.

THE CULPRIT.

John's amanuensis, whom he had so rashly
trusted, had earned away his copy of John's
scheme with, in reality, Httle or no idea of cheating,
and none at all of injuring John. His
faculties were confused by long courses of meditative
sophistry, such as had been his amusement
in the years when he had no other, and by the
criminal atmosphere in which he had lived, in
which the deception or spring of your neighbour
was the most natural matter, the best sign
of talent and originality, at once the excitement
and the amusement of the perverted mind. The
man who called himself March had a more than
usual share of that confusion which so often
accompanies breaches of the moral law. He

f2

had gone through far more than usual of those
mental exercises by which all but the most
stupid and degraded attempt to prove themselves
right, or at least not so far wrong, in
those offences which to the rest of the world
are beyond excuse. And his mental ingenuity
was such that he could make a wonderful plea
to himself in favour of any course which fancy
or temptation suggested. In the present case
the effort had not been at all a difficult one.
He had really meant no harm to John. He intended,
in fact, to recommend John warmly, to
put a good thing in his way. In all probability
the young man would not prove a good advocate
for himself. He might be shy of pushing
his own interests : most inventors Averse shy and
retiring, easily discouraged : and what he meant
to secure would not in reality be more than a
percentage on the trouble he would take in recommending
John. A percentage  that was
what in reality it would be  and well earned :
for had he not been at the trouble of copying,
and indeed adding something of his own to the
young man's dry plans and calculations, besides
the service he would do him in carrying his

goods as it were to market and securing a sale
for them, and a profitable job for their inventor.
Nothing could be more self-evident than this.
At the end he came to be quite sure that
he was doing his young benefactor a real service,
and that nothing in his conduct wanted
excusing at all.

He was a little shaken, however, by his reception
at the oflSce of Messrs. Spender and Diggs,
and by their instant recognition of John's name,
and then curious questions on the subject. Had
the plan been rejected by Barrettss, they asked
and he did not even know what ' Barrettss '
meant. He was still more dismayed when he
found (though he ought to have known very
well it must be so) that no answer would be
given him on the subject till the papers were
examined, and that it would be necessary that
Sandford should come himself to elucidate and
explain them. There was quite a little excitement
in the office, evidently, about Sandford's
work and its presentation there. The partner
who seemed to him to be Diggs (he could not
tell why, from his appearance), came and looked
over the shoulder of the partner who must

be Spender, and one or two others were called
into the council and questions asked as to
whether young Sandford had left Barrettss,
whether there had been a quarrel, what had
happened. The ignorance he showed about all
this, brought suspicious looks upon him, looks
which disturbed all his calculations : for it had
never occurred to him that any suspicion could
attach to him in respect of a document written
in his own hand, and which by that very fact
surely belonged to him, more or less. He was
glad at last to get away, feeling a certain distrust
involved in the questions that were addressed
to him, and beginning to wonder what
they could do to him if it were discovered to be
without John's permission that the papers were
brought here. Pooh! he said to himself, but
only when he had got away  nothing could be
done to him ; it was no wrong to John or anyone.
He had a right, a moral right, to the work
of his own hands : and it was in kindness he
had done it ; kindness qualified by a percentage
which is what the very best of friends demand.
But if he was disturbed and troubled by this
contretemps, Joe, Who was really throughout the

matter his inspiring influence, was much more
so. He was angry and disappointed beyond
description. He had expected, being so much
more ignorant than his principal, money immediate,
a sum down, for the papers which young
Sandford had said were his fortune. He was
furious with the feebleness of his ' mate,' who
had left those papers without getting anything
for them.

I'd not a' bin such a blooming fool,' said Joe,
whose adjectives are generally left out in this
record. ' I'd a' up and spoken. Money down
or ye gets nothing' from me. Lor, if I had a
'anson coat to my back like you, and could
speak like as them swells would listen to me,
d'ye think I'd a' come back empty-handed like
that r

March was still more confused by this vituperation.
It was in vain, he knew, to convince
Joe that such a rapid transaction was impossible
in the nature of things, for neither Joe nor his
kind know anything of the nature of things.
They know that when they have anything to
sell, money is to be got for it, and that is all.
Joe made his patron and dependent (for the

poor man was both) very uncomfortable on this
subject : and other things too made him uncomfortable
; the necessity for communicating with
John, and informing him that he must see Spender
& Diggs, and explain his scheme to them ; and the
necessity for going back to Spender & Diggs,
which Joe had pressed upon him, incapable of
hearing reason. What was he to do ' The poor
man hung about the street in which John lived,
half hoping for an encounter which might clear
up the matter one way or other. When he saw
John his heart gave a jump of pleasure and
relief in the first instance, and then the instinct
of the offender came upon him and he turned
and fled. But what was his flight worth before
the pursuit of the active and impassioned youth
who could have outstripped his swiftest pace ina
stride or two ? And then the fugitive said to
himself that he was not really guilty, that he
had done nothing to be afraid of. Kindness,
qualified by a percentage. The rueful smile
which was in his eyes when he turned to John
was half conciliatory and half made up of self-approbation
and amusement at the success of
that phrase. Naturally, John was aware of

neither of these sentiments. He pushed his
prisoner before him into his sitting-room, taking
no heed of the exclamations of Montressor. It
was a trouble to him at all times to hear that
name of May from the actor's lips, but it was
his own fault, and he could blame nobody. He
thrust the culprit into his sitting-room, and
pushed him into a chair without saying a word.
He was breathless, not with the exertion so
much as with the tumult in his mind, the eagerness,
and passion. He had not expected to find
thus the means of exonerating himself so soon,
nor could he help a certain blaze of wrath
against the man who had done him so ill a
turn.

There !' he said, waving Montressor aside
with his hand. ' Tell me first why you did it.
What induced you to steal my papers and try
to ruin me ? Was not I kind to you ?  was I
not '

Steal your papers !' said the offender, with a
look of surprised innocence. ' I stole none of
your papers. The copy which I had myself
made at your request was surely by all laws of
reason mine in the first place, and not yom-s.'

John gazed at him with a gasp of astonishment
at this extraordinary doctrine, but for the
first moment found nothing to say.

I allow,' said the culprit, with a certain magnanimity,
' that had I been engaged by you at,
let us say, so much a day to make this copy,
with a full understanding that it was to be your
property, your question might be justified ; but,
as a matter of fact, no stipulations of the kind
were made. You suggested to me that I should
come here and copy your papers  with the
benevolent intention of keeping me out of mischief
 I suppose out of the company which you
did not think good for me, of my faithful Joe.'

He had changed his position in the chair to
a more easy one, and leaned forward a little,
speaking, demonstrating slightly, easily, with his
hand. John, in his sudden fury, and in the
darkness of his distress, felt the current of his
thoughts arrested, and his mind standing still
with wonder. He gasped, but the words would
not come.

But there was no engagement,' resumed the
speaker, with a smile ; ' nothing was said about
so much a day. My labour was not put to any

price, nor was there any time mentioned when
it should be finished or anything said about its
ultimate destination. You will see that I am
quite exact when you think over the circumstances.
Isn't it so ? Well, then, by all laws
of logic, the copy was mine, and 1 had a right
to do what I liked with it ; put it in the fire if I
liked '

< But not to offer my scheme, my work, my
ideas to to  another firm,' cried John, in his
confusion : ' to an opposition  to a '

He saw he had made a mistake, but in his
excitement could not tell what it was.

Oh,' said March, ' I see ! Now I understand ;
it is a question of rivalry : they're competitors 
they're on the other side ? Certainly that wasn't
at all what I intended : and now I understand.'

It was John's impulse to seize him by the
collar, to shake the sophistry out of this bland
usurper of his rights. But he did not do so.
He restrained himself with a strong effort, and
recovered the thread of reason which had been
snatched for a moment out of his hand.

We might go into that,' he said, * if you had
the least right to take from me what was my

work, and not yours. But you are too clever
not to see that this is quite a secondary question.
Whatever you may say, you copied those
papers for me, by my orders, for payment.
Bah ! what is the use of arguing about such a
matter ? You know it as well as I do. You
know my papers are stolen, that you have tried
to make a profit of them, that you have taken
them from me, to whom they belonged '

John's aspect in spite of himself was threatening
: his countenance flushed, he changed his
position, he clenched his hand. He was a powerful
young man and the other was feeble and
limp if not very old. Montressor, with his stage
instinct, found it time for him to interfere.

May,' he said, ' old friend, I have always
stood up for you, though I know you've done a
dark deed. I've spoken for you even to this
brave boy. He's your own name, and may-be
for aught I know he's your own flesh and blood.
Oh, me old friend ! there used to be a deal of
good in you, though weak. How could you
find it in your heart to do a wrong to a young
beginner ? That wasn't like what ye used to be,
me old May '

John had listened with a stupefied air to this
speech. May! what did Montressor mean? He
caught him by the arm.

The man's name is March,' he said.

This brought, what all other accusations
had not done, a faint colour to the culprit's
face.

One month's as good as another he said,
with a feeble laugh, ' and begins with the
same letter. So it's you, Montressor. I didn't
notice who it was : the outer part of you is in
better trim than when I saw you the other day.'

The actor replied, with a wave of his hand,

What has to be thought upon at present,' he
said, ' is you and not me.'

This was not the policy of the man who was
on his trial.

*I suppose,' he said, *it's the fortune of war.
The other day I was able to help you as an old
friend, and now it's you that patronise me.'

*May,' said John. He could not get beyond
that point. What they said between themselves
was nothing to him. He paid no attention to
what they said. May! There swept into his
mind a quick passing recollection of the feverish

anxiety he had once felt to identify somehow
and find out his relationship with some one of the
name, and the Mayor of Liverpool, whom he
had almost disturbed in his state to ask. Do you

know anyone ? But he never met anywhere

an individual who bore that name till now.

Ye see before ye,' said Montressor, embarrassed,
* me young friend, the unfortunate man
that I was trying to recommend to you the last
time we met. He says true, he was better off
at that moment than I was ; but that makes no
difference. Yes, me noble boy. This is the
May I told ye of. I have thought there was a
likeness in some things between ye ; but me
wife would not hear me say it, for, John May, ye
have the heart of a king : and me poor friend
there, though he's named the same '

The man, who had not been listening anymore
than John had listened to the private conversation
between his two companions, here
woke up from his own thoughts with a slight
start.

Who,' he said, ' are you calling John May ?
My name is Robert, not John at all  if it is me
you mean. My father's name was John, an

honest worthy man. I always made up my
mind to call the boy after him. What do you
know about John May ? that's not my name, not
my name at all. I'm rather in a weak state of
health and 1 can't bear very much. You
wouldn't speak of such things if you knew
that they threw me into a tremble all over,
which is very bad for me. Who do you mean
by John May?'

The three men looked at each other in a
tremulous quiver of excitement, like the flashing
of intense heat in the air. They gazed at each
other saying nothing. Montressor, though he
had hitherto been calm, was growing agitated
too, he could not tell why. There was a suppressed
excitement in the very air round them
which none of the three could fully understand.
At this moment there was a knock at the door,
which they all heard, as if they heard it not,
without an attempt to make any reply. The
world outside was for the moment blank to
them ; they had something more important than
anything outside to settle among themselves.

CHAPTER VI.

A CRISIS.

It had been about noon when John left Messrs.
Barrettss' office. It was now between three and
for in the afternoon. His long walk, his talk
with Montressor, the agitation and excitement
of the catastrophe had made the time go as
upon wings. But it had not gone upon wings
at the office, where there was a great deal of
commotion and discomfort, the pupils saying
among themselves that for Sandford to go away
in such a way was next to impossible ; that little
Prince, the little sneak, had told some lie -just
like him ; that the bosses, or the governors, or
whatever other name for the heads of the office
happened to be current at the moment, had
made a howling mistake, and that the whole

affair was nothing but a proof of the general
stupidity of those teachers and overseers whom
it is the mission of youth to dethrone. This
agitation of feeling was not confined to the
pupil-room or the outer office. It entered in,
with the most serious results, to the very sanctuary
of the establishment, Mr. Barrett's own
room, where Mr. "William had a controversy with
his father, which nothing but the decorum necessary
between the heads of such a government
could have kept within bounds.

Mr. Barrett was a pessimist by nature, and
one who always expected to be deceived and
wronged. He had heard, he forgot what, that
had led him to expect evil of John, and to that
idea he had clung during the period of the
young man's training with the purest faith. He
had to confess from time to time that John had

done very well so far, but He never forgot

to shake his head and add that but. Xow he
was, if it is permissible to say so of a good man,
delighted that his prophecies were justified. He
told his son that he had always expected it,
from something his mother told me,'  though
in the course of years he had forgotten what
VOL. in. G

Mrs. Sandford had told him, which was not
much.

William Barrett, however, was of another
mind. He had Heed John  he had put full
faith in him, he had appreciated his practical
abilities, and the good work he did, and his
power of managing men, and had been disposed
to look indulgently upon any theories or plans
he might have. This was all the length his
mind had gone when John spoke to him first
of that scheme for draining the Thames Valley.
He had smiled at it very good-humouredly  he
had said to himself that when boys do take up
an idea it is generally a magnificent one, but
that it is better even to plan something on a
ridiculously gigantic scale than to think of nothing
at all. He was prepared, indeed, to get
some amusement out of John's Thames Valley.
Perhaps there might be something in it, some
idea which a maturer brain could work out.
There was no telling, but at all events it would
be worth looking at for the fun of it, if nothing
more : a youth of that age, with no experience
to speak of, tacking a business which had
baffled the wisest ! But it was like a boy to do

so. Fools rush in  or at least pupils rush in 
where engineers sometimes fear to tread.

So he looked forward with amused expectation
to the production of John's scheme. But
when Prince told him that story of Spender &
Diggs, the scheme took a different aspect in Mr.
William Barrett's eyes. It gained an importance,
a reality which nothing else could have
given it. He did not smile at the idea of this
absurd youthful plan as presented to the rival
office. It became immediately a serious matter ;
a project of the greatest importance. All at
once it became possible, very likely, that the
other firm, who had nothing to do with John,
might be about to reap all the benefit of him,
and to enter upon the greatest engineering
work that had been attempted for years, through
this boy at whose plans ' Barrettss ' had smiled.
William Barrett had no inclination to smile now.
It was deadly earnest by this time : and he
could not but feel sure in the natural certainty
of events that this scheme which he had pooh-poohed
would be seen in its true light by the
others, and would make the fortune of Spender
& Diggs.

g2

This thought had made him severe to Johriy
though not so severe as his father : and more
open to conviction. His mind was at all times
more open to conviction than that of his father :
and when John had burst out of the office, in
the first rage of his indignation, refusing to
defend himself, Mr. William, as has been said,
followed him to the door, calling him back, with
a compunction which he could not get rid of.
This compunction did nothing but go on increasing
in the blank which followed that fiery
scene. And the atmosphere in the pupils room
affected Mr. William, too, though he was not
aware of it. He had a consciousness that the
lads were saying among themselves, in the
slang of which all elder persons disapprove,
that the bosses had made a thundering mistake.
Had they made a mistake "? He was, in his
heart, of the same opinion as the pupil-room.
He did not think that John Sandford had done
this thing. Now that the flurry of discovery
was over, he asked himself was it likely ? had
the young fellow ever done anything that looked
the least like it ? Had he not always been
as steady as a rock, always honest and true,

never neglecting his employers' interests, carrying
out their orders, as good a worker as could
be ? Was it likely he should turn round all at
once ? This thought worked in his mind silently,
while those boys entertained each other with
saying that the bosses had made a mistake :
and it was greatly stimulated by the exasperating
suggestion that Spender & Diggs might
reap all the profit, and might go far ahead of
Barrettss in the struggle for fortune and fame.
"Would they go ahead of Barrettss? He began
to remember John's start of sui-prise, his question
as to who it was that had carried his
papers to the other office, his look of enlightenment.
 If they had been stolen from him, and
the papers which he had flung down on the
table, were, as he had said, his original scheme,
Spender & Diggs might not find it so easy to
shoot ahead of Barrettss. On the whole, thinking
it over, it was more Hkely that Spender &
Diggs had cheated than John. It would not bethe
first time. They might have put one of their
men up to it, to find out what the young fellow
was working at. Of course it soon got abroad
among the lads what one was doing  and what

more likely than that the rival firm, old hands
at that sort of thing, people far more used to
picking the brains of other people's pupils than
to developing talent among their own, what if
they had secured possession of the copy of
John's scheme by one of the underhand ways
with which they were familiar ? On the whole,
that was really more likely than that Sandford,
a lad against whom nobody had a word to say,
who had always behaved well, should have gone
over, without rhyme or reason, to the enemy.

By dint of long-continued reasonings like this,
William Barrett worked himself up by the
time he left the office to seek another interview
with John. He said to himself that he
would put his pride in his pocket, and go after
the young fellow, who no doubt was miserable
though he had so much pluck he would not
show it. His heart smote him that he had not
taken all these things into consideration before,
and he had visions of young Sandford's misery
and despair, which affected even the middle-aged
imagination of a man quite unused to
anything heroical. He felt that his father had
been unkind to John, which gave him at once

an impulse and a motive for seeking the young
man out  for, though he respected his father,
the junior partner was generally more or less in
opposition to him. All these things together
made him determine to go after John, and have
it out with him. He got his address almost
stealthily, as not wishing anyone in the office
to know until he saw what would come of it,
and set out from the office a little earlier than
usual that no time might be lost. He found the
door open when he came to the house, and being
himself somewhat excited, and beyond the
rule of common laws, went in Tvathout ringing
the bell ; and, hearing voices in the first sitting-room
he came to, knocked at the door. He was
thus brought into the very midst of the agitated
group which we have attempted to set before
the reader at the climax of their excitement.
The voices ceased, after a moment, but no attention
was paid to Mr. Barrett's knock. Something
of the excitement that was in the air communicated
itself to him.

Sandford,' said William Barrett, putting his
head in at the door.

They were all silent, staring at each other

full of confused trouble, suspicion, and uncertainty.
Even John felt vaguely, when the
original question rose up before him in the
sudden apparition of Mr. WilKam Barrett's
grave face, that another matter had since arisen
which swallowed up the first. The intruder
who came in without invitation, feeling somehow
that here was a crisis above conventional
rules found that the interest centred like the
high light in a picture in the countenance of
the man. who sat at the table, leaning on it, his
whole person quivering with a tremulous movement
like palsy, his face turned, pale, with a
half-anxious, half-fatuous beseeching smile upon
it to the other man standing opposite to him,
who on his side looked from John to the newcomer
and back again with a look of amazement
and confusion. Johnhimself stood half-stupefied
between them, giving no more than a glance of
recognition to his employer, occupied with more
urgent affairs ; and yet Mr. Barrett had good
reason to know that his own mission to this
youth who was so strangely daring his fate, was
in one sense life and death.

Whom do you mean by John May ? John

May's not a common name, neither is Sandford.
Montressor, you're stirring up all my life, and
sou know it. Most things I can bear well
enough. IVe gone through a great deal. I'm
hardened to most things  but not  not  to my
little boy's name. You've got a child of your
own, and you ought to know. I've not seen
that little chap for fourteen years. I don't
know where he is now, if he's living or if he's
dead, and yet once he was the apple of my eye.
lontressor, what do you mean with your playacting
and your stage tricks, bandying about
what was the name of my little boy?'

john Sandford stood listening to these
words which came out, with pauses between,
in a voice which was full of real feeling,
a voice so different from the easy sophistry,
the humorous self-contempt the confused
philosophy which were its usual utterance 
with sensations indescribable, and something-like
a moral overturn of his whole being: vague
recollections, suggestions from the past, horrible
fears, doubts, certainties, confusion, rose up in
him, enveloping him like a mist. He cared no
more for William Barrett than if he had been

an office-boy ; he forgot all the question about
the Thames Valley. These things, though
he had felt them half-an-hour ago to bethe
most momentous in the world, departed
from him as if they had never been. He stood,
scarcely able to see for the haze of feverish excitement
that had got into his eyes, staring
blindly, with all his faculties concentrated in
that of hearing, listening for what would come
next.

Sir,' said Montressor, ' ye do me wrong. The
drama is the drama, and I love it ; but stage
business is not, as ye say, for common life. Me
own name I don't deny, if all were laid bare, is
perhaps not Montressor. But the poor player
is likewise a man. Had I any stage effect in
me mind when I told ye there was one of your
own name I would recommend ye to ? here he
stands, and a young fellow any man might be
proud of. The first time I set eyes on him he
saved me child's life  judge if I was likely to
forget his name. This, me poor friend, is John
May.'

That's nonsense as I can testify,' said William
Barrett, breaking in bluntly. * 1 don't know

who your friends are, Sandford, and perhaps I
ought to beg your pardon for interfering : but
you're very young though you're not perhaps
aware of it. Come, gentlemen, if you've got
any hold upon this young man I shall be glad
to answer your questions about him, and let
him attend to his business. He is in fact my
pupil, and it's not to my interest his mind should
be disturbed from his work. Whatever stories
you may have heard I must know more about
him than you do. His name is Sandford. He
was placed by this mother in our hands.'

Sir,' said Montressor, with dignity, ' these
are me friends, both the young man and the
old. I do not turn to strangers to ask for information
concerning me friends. Ye may be
well meaning, but ye are ignorant  and I find
ye intrusive,' said the actor, turning away with
a wave of his hand.

Sandford I' cried William Barrett. Capitals
could not do justice to the injured majesty of
this cry. Intrusive ! In the rooms of a pupil
taken without a premium (that even he remembered
in the shock of the indignity), such a
word to be applied to him !

But John said nothing. He was stupefied, or
mad, or drunk, which was it? He scarcely
gave his employer a look. The colour had disappeared
from his face, his eyes seemed to have
a film over them, his lips trembled. He said at
last, almost inaudibly, looking straight before
him at vacancy,

'My real name is John May  that was my
name when I was a child  the other  sis my
grandfather's name.'

Then the man who had injured John, who
had taken his plans from him and robbed him,
and made him appear a traitor, rose up tottering,
supporting himself by the table.

If it's your grandfather's name,' he said,
and you were Johnnie May when you were a

child God help us all, it's fourteen years

ago. Are you my little chap, my little man,
that I used to take out of your bed in your
nightgown, with your bonny bright eyes shining?
Oh, God in heaven, I'm not fit to be any
good lad's father. Are you my little boy ? Are
you Johnnie May ?'

The room and all that was in it swam in dark
circles of confusing mist in John's eyes. He

grasped a chair to support himself, to defend
himself: the floor seemed to give way under his
feet.

I'll I'll come back presently,' he said.

Mr. BaiTctt thought more and more, with a
grieved heart, that the young fellow must have
been drinking, as with a sudden rush he gained
the door, and clung to that again for a moment,
like a man who has no control of his limbs or
movements. There he paused, and, looking at
them, said,

Wait : wait here : till I come back '

Mr. Ban-sett followed him quickly, afraid of
what might follow. He found John ghastly
and helpless, sitting on the step of the outer
door. The young man gave a little nod of his
head.

Wait,' he gasped, * I'll be better  in a moment
 I want a little air.'

Sandford, what is the matter '? Something
has happened to you : what are you going todo?'


John did not answer for a minute. He sat
with his mouth open taking long breaths, as if
the air had been a cordial which he was gulping

down ill mouthfuls. The street was very quiet,
there was nobody in sight, and the air of early
summer was fresh and a little chill in afternoon
greyness. Presently the young man rose and
smiled faintly at his companion.

'I'm better,' he said. 'I'm fit now for what
I've got to do.'

'Tell me, Sandford, what is it you are
going to do ? Nothing desperate, I hope. I
came to tell you I was ready to hear any explanation
 '

John waved his hand with an air of almost
derision.

Do you suppose I'm thinking of that '? It's
gone far beyond that.'

'What can be beyond that?' cried the employer,
with exasperation. Then he seized the
young man by the arm. ' What are you going
to do V

I am afraid I must have a cab,' said John,
with his confused look, 'for quickness ;-besides
that I couldn't walk. All my strength's gone
out of me.'

But what are you doing ? What has happened
? Where are you going now?'

John looked at his chief, the friend of so
many years, with a piteous smile.

I am going to find out  if there's any hope
for me  what's to become of me he said.

CHAPTER VII.

MRS. SANDFORD S VIEW.

Mrs. Sandford sat in her matron's room in the
light of the bay windows, making up her accounts
as usual. She was regulating the lists
of linen in the hospital, the surgical appliances,
the provisions of all kinds. Her round of the
wards had been made. The nurses had given
their reports, the special cases had been visited.
Her day's work, so to speak, was done. The
afternoon was the time for rest. She was occupying
it, as she often did, in this necessary but
not ostentatious work, upon which so much of
the comfort of the little community devoted to
healing and merciful service, depended. Mrs.
Sandford was known to be a great administrator
: nothing was ever wanting, nothing to seek,

under her management ; her stores never ran
out. But she was so used to this work of
regulation and oversight that she did not find it
very interesting. Sometimes she would lay down
her pen, sometimes even lean back in her chair,
which was not, however, a seductive lounge,
but an ample, comfortable Chippendale, in which
you sat upright very much at your ease, but
had no encouragement to loll. She had things
to think of apart from the hospital. A letter
lay on her table among all her lists and account-books,
which was from Susie, and there were
things in it which made this mother, who, after
all, though perhaps of sterner fibre than most,
was still of the same stuff from which ordinary
mothers are made  both smile and sigh. Susie's
life was undergoing new developments. A certain
commotion was in it of new forces awakening,
and new thoughts. Perhaps, under the
most favourable circumstances, Susie was not
likely to make such revelations as would justify
any critic in saying that she was ' in love ' ; but
there were in her letter indications, little eddies
which proved how the current went, straws
that showed how the wind was blowing. For
VOL. III. H

one thing, she kept up a continual comparison
between two unknown persons, of which she
herself was evidently unconscious, but which
her mother perceived gradually by dint of repetition.
'Mr. Percy Spencer tells me'  'but
Mr. Cattley says :'  she had told her mother at
first all about her visitors, and how these two
came and went, and talked of John. Susie had
a great deal to say, too, of EUy, and had made
her mother aware of all that had gone on in that
respect, and also of Mrs. Egerton and her opposition,
which by times extended to Susie and
by times ebbed away altogether, as circumstances,
or humour, or the weather moved the parish
queen in one way or another. Those reports
were always quite simple, and often amusing,
for Susie had a quiet way of telling a story,
very circumstantial and clear, which sometimes
gave her readers a more luminous and humorous
view than she was herself aware of. Bit
Susie made no comparison in respect to the
ladies of Edgeley. Their intercourse with her
was simple. It was her visitors of the other sex
who evidently produced this effect of balance
and comparison in her mind.

Mr. Percy gave me his view of it ; he takes
very strong views ; but Mr. Cattley tells me '

This was always the position in which these
two appeared  Percy bringing forward all kinds
of opinions, decisive of many matters, social and
otherwise ; but Mr. Cattley always adding a
criticism or comment, something that changed
the issue. Mrs. Sandford, for the fiftieth time,
leaned back in her chair, and put down her pen,
and asked herself, with a faint, lingering smile,
which softened her stern face, what Susie meant.
Susie was her own child, to whom her heart
was soft, her companion, the sharer of all
her thoughts. The sternness which she had
shown to John had never touched his sister.
Susie knew her mother entirely, knew what she
meant, and what her past life had been. There
were no secrets between these two. Of many
things in his own antecedents, John was ignorant,
but Susie knew everything. All Susie's
ways of thinking had grown under her mother's
eye. She had never thoroughly known her son,
but she knew Susie through and through. This
made the greatest difference in their mutual
relations. Mrs. Sandford was to her daughter

both tender, and soft, and gentle. Susie knew
how to make her laugh, to bring tears to her
eyes, whereas to John there was no laughter in
her. All this, and even the contrast with John,
who was in no such position, drew the mother
and daughter more closely together. And it
was with all the mingled sympathy and alarm,
and tender prescience and pleasure, and regret
of that relationship, that she saw the moment
coming when the child would find some one
else to be nearer to her, more a portion of herself
and her life than even her mother.

Mrs. Sandford felt, with that exquisite fellow-feeling
which is like divination, almost before
Susie did, the development of a new affection in
Susie's soul And she leaned back in her chair
between happiness and sadness, pleased to see
her girl ' respected like the lave,' though already
conscious of the desolation that desirable and
good thing would bring with it  asking herself,
almost with amusement. Which would it be ? It
was a mood more soft than was at all usual
with her, and, notwithstanding the darkness that
must come with the fulfilment of those dreams,
it was a happy mood. That her mild Susie

should have, not one but two suitors flattered
and amused her. Which would it be? Mr.
Cattley, in his mild, middle age, or Percy, the
young priest, who had never intended to yield
to the weakness of love-making ? This was the
subject of Mrs. Sandford thoughts : and other
matters more painful, if any painful matters
were at that moment within the possibilities of
her life, had floated away like clouds from the
languid sweetness of the afternoon sky.

There was something, however, in the sound
of the hurried step she heard approaching which
roused her. It rang along the unoccupied passages,
quick, eager, hurried, yet with a little
stumble of weakness in it, as of excitement gone
too far, and losing hold of itself She listened,
and instantly sat upright in her chair, and put
Susie's letter away under a bundle of papers. It
was perhaps something very bad brought into
the accident ward, or the man in No. 4 had been
taken with another attack, or Then something
made her start a little.

It is his step,' she said to herself : and lie
was John, the boy as she always called him in
her heart.

He pushed open the door without knocking
and saying hurriedly, ' May I come in,' came in
without waiting for permission. Her experienced
eye saw at once that he had received a
great shock. Either in body or mind he had
been shaken violently. His hair hung in damp
masses on his forehead. He was without coloury
save when in speaking he suddenly reddened
and then was pale again. A touch of personal
disarrangement made this agitation of his appearance
more remarkable. His tie had got
loose, and he had not perceived it. Such a
simple matter of external appearance seems to
set a seal upon the profoundest commotions of
life.

She cried out, ' What is the matter V before
he could speak a word. Then, starting suddenly
with that instinctive alarm which moves
us for those we love, added quickly, ' Susie !
You have had some bad news.'

Not of Susie,' he said, in a breathless way.
Mother, I have come for you. Come with me
instantly, for God's sake !'

What is the matter, John ? I can't go out
like this, you know. I have to make arrangements.

What is it ?  for heavens sake tell me
what it is.'

I may never in my life ask such a thing
from you again. Most likely I shall never
want it. If you have any feeing for me, for
God's sake come with me. To me it is life or
death.'

She put her hand upon his arm, and drew him
towards her, looking in his face, feeling with a
professional touch his hands and the throbbing
of his pulse.

Something has gone amiss,' she said. ' Your
hands are cold, and yet your pulse is high.
You have had some shock.' She got up as she
spoke, and made him sit down in her chair, and
put her hands upon his head. ' Tell me what is
the matter,' she said, in that tone of mild determination
with which she overawed her patients.
You are not fit to be flying about.'

There was something in the touch, in the
maternal authority  though that was scarcely
more individual to him than to any other 
which touched the poor young fellow in the
feverish crisis of feeling in which he was. It
was a relief to sink down into the chair, to feel

even its wooden arms giving him a sensation
of support. And to have some one to fall back
upon at such a moment was the best thing in
heaven or earth. He had never wanted such a
prop before. It was against all the principles
of his life to look for it, and yet there was the
profoundest consolation in it. He closed his
eyes for a moment, and the heat and the horror
of his thoughts relaxed a little. He had
meant to seize upon her, to carry her away ina
whirlwind of passionate haste and anxiety, to
confront her with him, the stranger who had
possession of John's rooms, and seemed to claim
possession of his life. That had seemed at first
the only thing to do : to carry her off without
warning, to bring her face to face with that
unthought of, unsuspected apparition, and
demand of her, ' Who is this V Perhaps there
had been in it a gleam of personal vengeance
too, the desire to recompense with a keen, swift
stroke of punishment the deception put upon him,
and all the mysteries now suddenly let loose
upon his head. But the touch of his mother's
hand, the anxiety in her voice, the kindness 
though perhaps no more than any patient at

the hospital would have called forth  overturned
all these intentions in a moment. He
was wound up to such a passion of feeling that
everything told upon him, and the revulsion was
great. He leaned back, touching her shoulder,
laying his head upon it.

Mother,' he said, like a child, with a pathetic
voice of reproach, ' why did you tell me he was
dead V

John I' she started so violently that the pillow
of rest on which he had leaned seemed to
reject as well as fail him. ' John !'

He turned round upon her suddenly, and
caught her hands in his.

Mother,' he said again, 'is it true Mother,
is it true? I have never understood. God
help me, was this what it meant all the time V

Mrs. Sandford, who was so self-controlled and
so strong, trembled and quivered in his hold.
She said, in a hoarse whisper,

What has happened ? Tell me what it is.'

He held her hands fast, and would not let her
go, swaying a little backward and forward as if
he were shaking her, though he had no such
meaning.

I have never understood,' be repeated. * I
must have been told what was not true. Now
I know : you ought all to have seen that I must
be told sooner or later. Is that true ?'

She was a woman of great resolution, and she
freed herself from him, though his hold was so
close. She came round to the other side of the
table, and stood looking at him, with the steady
look which had daunted many a rebel. She said,

You are ill ; you don't know what you are
saying. I should not wonder if you had had a
slight sunstroke. You must go to Susie's room,
which is cool and fresh, and lie down.'

And then there ensued a moment's parley,
but not with words  with keen eyes looking
into each other across the table. She stood as
steady as a rock, as if she were thinking of nothing
but the accidental illness of which she
spoke. But John saw that the lighter part of
her, the edge, so to speak, the line of her black
gown, the turn of her elbow, had a quiver in
them. He saw this without knowing that he
saw it, as we do in moments of emotion.

Mother,' he said, * it's no mistake ; it's not
illness. It's what I tell you. Come with me

and see him : and if you can say then that it is

not true Ah !' he exclaimed, with a sharp

tone of distress, 'you can't. I see it in your face.'

Mrs. Sandford did all she could to steady
herself still.

To see whom V she said. ' To see '

Then, with a long-drawn breath, 'You are
tryuig to frighten me. 1 know  no one of
whom you can be speaking.'

Then why are you afraid V he said.

She kept standing, gazing at him for a moment
more. Then a sort of shivering seized
her, and in a moment all her defences seemed
to fail. She gave him a look of agonised appeal,
then came to him like a child flying from a
suddenly realised danger, and dropped down by
the side of his chair.

Oh, John,' she cried, changing to him, * save
me. I cannot see him  oh, no, no ! You don't
know what you ask. Say I am dead. Say I

am Kill me rather, kill me I It would be

kinder. Oh, no, no, no, no ! I cannot, I cannot.
I'll rather die. Save me, John !'

A horrible dismay crept through and through
him as he bent over her, exclaiming, ' Mother,

mother !' trying to soothe her  but above alla
profound, all-subduing pity. He had his
answer : there was no possibility of misunderstanding
what this meant : but the sight of the
convulsed and broken figure clinging to him in
utter self-abandonment penetrated to his very
heart. He clasped with his own the hands that
held his arm. He put down his head to the
face which, full of mortal terror and misery,
looked up to him imploring his protection. His
protection ! for her so strong, so self-sufficing,
so immovable. To see her at his feet was more
than he could bear.

Mother, I will ; as far as I can, by every
means I can. I will, I will  mother, it breaks
my heart to see you. Then it is true, all true V

And on the other side there seemed to rise
before him another picture : the man with his
smile arguing the question, persuading himself
that anything he had done was, if not wholly
right, at least far from being wrong, that it was
the thing most natural to be done  with his
air of mental confusion, yet satisfaction, his
amiability, his conciliatory looks, his humorous
self-consciousness, the subtle semi-intoxication

Tvhich seemed to have got into his character.
These things had made John smile a short lime
ago : they had filled him with a sort of compassionate
kindness, an amused toleration of all the
ways of this strange specimen of what human
nature could come to. He was not amused or
tolerant now. He thought with shrinking of
this new, never-realised, impossible agent who
had come into his life, impossible, yet, alas ! real,
never to be ignored again. But the first thing
was his mother, his mother who, their positions
reversed in a moment, clung to him with that
face full of panic and anguish, flinging herself
upon his protection. She, who was so strong,
the embodiment of self-penance and authority,
to see her as weak as water, as weak as any
poor woman, imploring her son to save her !
He had never in his life till now given her
more than the conventional kiss which their
relationship seemed to demand when they met
and parted. But now he held her close and
kissed over and over again the white, agonised
face which was pressed against his arm. Presently
he raised her up tenderly and restored
her to her seat  where gradually her panic

calmed down, and she was able to speak. But
it was very terrible and strange to John that
she asked no questions, but took the miserable
fact for granted, as if it were a thing that
must have happened, that she had expected
sooner or later, something inevitable in her
way.

The only thing is,' he said, with a sigh of
subdued impatience, ' why did you not tell me,
mother. Why didn't I know V

His question brought the shivering back, but
she replied, with an effort,

'How can I tell you? We thought it was
better so. I would not have you exposed to
that knowledge. You were so young  and
then it might never have been necessary  it
might never have come '

You mean that he might have died  there ? '

It would,' she said, bowing her head, ' have
been better so.'

 Without anyone to stand by him or say a
word, without love or succour,' he cried. Was
there not another side to the question ? He
thought she drew herself away from him with a

renewed movement of alarm, and he rose from
her side, too pitiful to be indignant, his heart
wrung with contending thoughts.

She held out her hands to him with another
outcry of terror.

Don't go ! I have no one. Don't forsake
me, don't leave me alone ! John, John !'

I must,' he said, ' if I am to defend you, to
save you, as you say. And then,' he added,
there is more than that : to take care of  him.
He cannot be ignored, mother : at least he has
claims upon me.'

Oh, John ! Stay with me, don't go. It has
not been for myself I have feared most, but for
you. It was always for you that I have feared,
lest he might get an influence, lest he might

John, stay with me ! Have I not the best

right to you ? I that have '

Distrusted me always, mother. I don't blame
you, but you know it has been so.'

She covered her face with her hands.

I am but a feeble, prejudiced woman. I
claim no exception. I do wrong trying to do
right, like all the rest, John. I feared, God forgive

me, that you might turn out  I thought

you were '

The son of my father,' he said, with a mingling
of sweetness and bitterness which gave
something keen and poignant to the sound of
his voice. * And so I am  and so I must prove
myself now.'

CHAPTER Vii

THE CONVICT.

When John rushed away in the manner that has
been described, Montressor and the other were
left together looking at each other blankly. They
said nothing so long as the sound of voices without
betrayed that he was still there. They sat
listening, looking at each other, in silence, till the
sound of his footsteps had died away upon the
stony pavement, and the quiet street had relapsed
into its usual stillness. The look which they exchanged
was Hke that of two convicted criminals
waiting breathless till the steps of the avenger had
died away. Montressor, at least, had done the
young fellow no wrong, but he felt that he had
somehow unconsciously, involuntarily, been the
means of bringing trouble upon him. He felt
VOL. III. I

like a culprit whispering to his fellow-conspirator
when he said,

May,* in a low voice, as if he might be overheard,
' what does it all mean V

May looked up at him from where he sat by
the table, leaning his forehead upon his hands.
He shook his head, but he did not make any
reply.

May, we're old friends. I never turned me
back upon ye, though many did. I've always
felt an interest in where ye were, and how your
time was running on. I hadn't much in me
power, but many didn't do that.'

Nobody did it,' said May. ' I'm like a martyr,
a saint, in that, if in nothing else, Montressor ;
everyone'forsook me. I had not a soul to inquire
whether I was living or dead, but you.'

Hush, May, me poor fellow !  your wife and
family '

'Do you know what they did? They disappeared,
and left no sign of themselves anywhere.
They must have changed their name ;
they sent a sum of money for me, but not a word.
I came out not knowing if anyone belonging tome
was living or dead, or where they were, or

what had become of them. My wife may be at
the end of the world for anything I know

May be dead,' said the other, ' that's more
likely.'

The convict shook his head.

It must have been she who sent me the
money. I had a mind not to take it at fii-st.
Like a bone to a dog to keep him from following
you. I thought for half-an-hour I wouldn't
take it : but after all,' he said, with a low laugh,
money's not a bad thing in itself. It's a makeup
for many things  when you can get nothing
else.'

Me poor soul ! if you've sinned you've suffered,'
said Montressor, with a sigh of sympathy.

The other laughed again.

There's something to be said on both sides.
"VMiat's sin? It's a thing that takes different
aspects according to your point of view. And
you may say what's suffering too ? That is a
pang to one person which would be the course
of nature to another. My friend Joe never
expected to have any welcome on the other side
of the gates at Portland ; not he. He was content
to get out of it, to go where he pleased, to

i2

get drunk comfortably next night with nobody
to interfere. He had no ridiculous expectations.
What you call suffering to me was bass to Joe.'

Montressor did not know what to reply ;
nothing in his own life, and not all the expedients
of the theatre could furnish him with a fit
answer. He tried to thi-ow into his face and the
solemn shake of his head, something which he
ought to feel.

All other things are according to your point
of view,' the other went on; 'but money's
absolute. It's always a good thing in its way.
I took it, and I consoled myself that on the whole

that on the whole But children have a

droll sort of hold upon you,' he said, quickly,
with a broken laugh. ' I always felt I'd give a
great deal to know what had become of my
Httle boy.'

Montressor stretched out his hand, and took
hold of May's across the table. Both nature and
the theatre helped him here.

Me poor friend !' he said.

He was a delightful little chap. It might
be because I was partial, you know  but I think
there never was a finer little chap. I used to

go upstairs, when I came in late, and fetch him
out of his bed, out of his sleep, his mother said,
and looked death and destruction at me  but it
never did him any harm. I shouldn't wonder if
he remembered it now. I think I see him in
his white nightgown, with his two eyes shining,
his hair all ruffled up, his little bare feet.' His
voice ran ofi' in a low, sobbing cough. ' I never
saw such a little chap :  never a bit afraid,
though I wasn't very steady sometimes when I
carried him downstairs.'

There was a pause. Montressor had no stage
precedent before him to teach him how to act in
such an extraordinary crisis : but Nature began
to make a hundred confused suggestions, which
at first he could scarcely understand. The stillness
seemed to throb and thrill around them,
when this monologue ceased, demanding something
from the actor, he could not tell what ;
some help which he did not know how to give,
scarcely what it was.

Me poor friend !' he said once more. ' You've
done wrong, but wrong has been done to you.
And this Httle chap, ye think ye're foimd him ?
Ye think he's turned out to be this  this noble

young fellow here ? If ye have an interest in
him one way, I've got an interest in him in
another, for he saved the life of me child  of
me Edie,' the actor added, as in the theatre he
would have said these touching words, ' who is
the prop of me old age, and the pillar of me
house.'

May, who had been roused out of his musings
by the question, fell back into them as Confessor
prolonged his speech, and now made no
reply. The other continued :

Me interest in him is strong. I'd save him
any trouble, or disturbance, or distress  anything
that was to humble him, or to shame him,
or to put a stop to him making his way. ' I'd
do that, whatever it might cost me  that I
would, for me child's sake.'

'Your child!' said May, with an imitation
of the actor's pronunciation, which Montressor
scarcely perceived, but which tickled the speaker
in the extraordinary lightness of his heart or
temper. He laughed, and then took up the
conversation, changing his tone.

A child's a strange thing. It's yourself in a
kind of way, and yet it's nicer than yourself

The naughtier it is, the nicer it is. It's endless
fun. I don't know,' he said, with a wave of
his hand, ' what the relationship is when it exists
between you and somebody that, so to speak, is
as old as yourself.'

Me poor May ! but that's a thing that can't
be.'

Myself, for instance,' continued the philosopher.
' I'm father to a child, not to a man.

My little chap, if he had lived, would be

I don't know,' he added, after a pause, *that I'd
be very sorry to hear he had died.'

'Hush, May!' said the other, with an outcry
of dismay. ' I wouldn't believe ye. Ye can't
mean it, whatever ye may say.'

Why can't I mean it ? My little chap belongs
to me, whatever happens. He had always
a smile and a kiss for his father ; he was never
afraid of me ; he never looked at me stem, Hke
his mother. Now, if he should happen to have
grown into  something Hke this young fellow
here '

Ye would be a lucky man, not a luckier man
in aU England : a brave boy of whom any father
might be proud.'

'Ah!' said the vagrant, with a long-drawn
breath, which ended in a faint laugh, 'and
would he, do you think, be proud of me ?'

There was another silence, for Montressor was
daunted, and felt once more that even the
resources of his profession failed him ; and May
went on, after the telling interval of that pause.

A yoimg fellow that is the pink of respectability,
that never took a drop too much, nor
went an inch out of the way in all his life !
Lord, Montressor, think what it would be to beset
down for Hfe, to be overlooked by a fellow
like that ! to see in his eyes what he thought of
you ! I'm a poor wretch that can't live without
a laugh. I couldn't, you know, if I were,
as people used to say, within the ribs of death.
I've made the best of things, and reasoned them
out, and got a Httle fun out of them wherever I
was. I know what would happen well enough.
When I talked to him the other day, I was a
sort of a strange beast to him that he was very
sorry for. It nearly brought the tears into his
eyes to hear me talk. I could almost tell you
what he was thinking. " Poor beggar !" he
was thinking, " it's all wrong and horrible, but

if it gives him a little consolation in his misery
'* He was awfully kind.'

'He's the kindest heart I ever came across,'
cried the actor, with an exaggeration which was
very allowable in the circumstances, * and liberal
as the day, and never forgets a friend.'

This May dismissed again with a wave of his
hand as something outside of the question.

 He was awfully kind. It looked like what
you call the voice of nature on the stage, Mon-treason.
One doesn't often come across it anywhere
else. Do you know he picked me up

dr well, as the policemen say, a little the

worse for liquor  in the street 'f Think of it, a
young man that is the flower of respectability 
that never consorted with the Wicked. And
after seeing me unadorned like that, and knowing
where I came from, which Joe did his best
to pubHsh, taking me in, establishing me here,
and giving me his papers to copy ! By the way,
I'm a Httle sony about these papers,' he went
on. ' Perhaps it was stretching a point to take
them away  convey the wise it call  though
they weren't his, strictly speaking, you know ;
he hadn't paid for them or made any bargain ;

but still a Puritanical person might say It

was all that sophist Joe, a casuist born, though
he doesn't know a rule of logic. And then the
ridiculous name of those engineer people caught
my fancy. Spender & Diggs, don't you know ;
it's grotesque. That tempted me. But, perhaps,
after all, it was stretching a point  the
jury might say it was a breach of trust. I think
I'll go and get them back.'

Me friend !' cried Montressor, ' there I see yeas
I always Heed to see ye  generous, whatever
else.'

Yes,' said May, with some complacency, ' I
flatter myself I always was that ; but few people
knew the line to take with me. The talk has
always been about justice. As if justice was a
thing to be defined ! If every man had his
deserts, which of us would be uppermost, I wonder
? Not those fellows in scarlet that sentence
other men, or the pettifogging shopkeepers on a

jury that know about as much of justice I

think I'll go and get those papers back.'

Come on ; I'll go with ye  I'll stand by ye
in a righteous cause !' cried Montressor, starting
to his feet.

Gently,' said May, looking at him vnih. mild
eyes, leaning back in his chair'. ' It's too late
to-day. I'll go to-moiTow as soon as I'm up ;
and as for that old casuist Joe '

What's Joe, or any other man,' said ,
'in comparison with what's generous,
me friend, and kind ? Here's a young man, and
as fine a young man as ye'll see, that's been
good to ye  even if there's nothing more in it.'

Even if there's nothing more in it,' said May,
in his mellow, melting voice. ' And there maybe
more in it, Montressor. There may be Httle
Johnnie in it, God bless him, my nice little chap I'

'Me friend,' said Montressor, with enthusiasm,
there may be Httle Johnnie in it, grown up to
be a credit to all that belongs to him, to be the
prop of yom old age and the blessing' of your
life, like me own Edie  to thank ye for saying
him from latin, to bless ye '

Hold hard I' said the other. ' Montressor, my
good fellow, yom eloquence is canning you
away. Thank me for saving him from ruin ! It
was hauling me up for stealing his papers that
he was thinking of '

But not,' cried John's advocate, ' not since

lie knew  not since it began to dawn upon him,
poor boy '

The convict put out his hand  and the actor
stopped short in his appeal. They sat silent
once more, looking at each other with thoughts
that were too deep for speech. It was May who
took up the broken sentence at last.

Ay,' he said, ' when it began to dawn upon
him, poor boy, that the man he had picked up
out of the streets, the man he had been so
charitable to, the man he had trusted and that
had betrayed him, the convict from Portland,
was his father! Good Lord! Think of this
happening to a proud, virtuous, self-conceited,
right-minded, well-behaved young prig like
that !' He burst into something that sounded
like a laugh, and yet was more miserable than
any outcry of despair. ' Think of that, Mon-treason,'
he said again, after a moment. ' That's
stranger than any of your stage effects. Poor
young beggar ! all made up of pride and honour
and rectitude, and all that, and as ambitious as
Alexander to boot.' He got up for a moment
and stood by the table and looked round him.
I think I'll go away. I think I'll go right

away and take myself out of the boy's road.
AVliat would be the good of torturing him,
and making him try to be respectful to his
father ? He'd be respectful  and awfully disagreeable,'
he added, with a Halter laugh. ' I'll
not wait for him any longer. I'll go right
away.'

*Me noble friend! it's your true heart that
speaks !' cried Montressor, seizing him by the
arm. * Me house is open to you. May, and me
heart  come dth me.'

May looked round upon the room, the fire of
his sentiment dong out, the habitual twinkle
coming back to his eye.

It's a dreadfully respectable little place,' he
said. ' Tidy  not a thing out of order. Could
you imagine a comfortable pipe and glass here '
And I know how he would look at me. It
makes a difference when it's a relation. A poor
man ofi the streets is the sort of thing you can
be kind to without derogation  but not a 
father. I'm not the sort of father for a man.
A little boy like my little chap wouldn't mind ;
but a fine, respectable young man ! And women
don't mind so much  that is, some women. How

old is your Edie, Montressor, and what sort of a
girl?'

Sixteen, and an angel,' said the actor, ' and
dances like one: and she's the prop of me
house.'

Sixteen  you must take me to Edie. Sixteen's
too young to ask many questions : and
when it dances besides ! But you've got a
-vifer

She's an angel too. May.'

It's you that are lucky, Montressor. I wonder
if I've still got a wife ? She was a sort of
an arch-angel, don't you know, too high-minded,
too grand for the like of me. I wonder if she's
alive. Yes, she must be alive-nobody but she
would have sent me that money without a
word. Perhaps, Montressor, it's her he's gone
to consult.'

Never mind, me friend. Let's think no more
df them. Let's go away.'

'It will be so,' said May, as if speaking to
himself; 'his mother  that master of his said.
Confound all jealous masters, he will cause mea
deal of trouble getting those things back.
Ay, the mother I she'll tell him everything, she'll

not spare the old riotous good-for-nothing  his
father!' Here the voice changed. 'A father
Hke me,' he added, 'isn't for a young man,
Montressor ; you're right in what you say. I'd
do for a boy, a little fellow like my own Httle
chap. He and I could go away together where
nobody ever heard of us. Get a Httle farm in
the country, perhaps, and a spade, and  that
sort of thing : and the poor Httle beggar would
never know. But for a man that is respectability

itself, and all that No, no, you're

right, Montressor. Take me to yom angel that
dances, and the other one  what does she do ?
perhaps she sings.' He burst forth into a
tremulous, broken laugh. ' Two angels  instead
of my own Httle chap. You're right, Montressor.
Don't let us wait for the poor boy that's coming
back broken-hearted. Who knows, if I weren't
such a good-for-nothing, if I weren't such a
reckless fool, I might be broken-hearted too.'

Me poor friend !' the actor cried, ' as long as
I have a roof over me head, come ; it's but a
poor place, but ye'll be welcome. Montressor's
door is never shut against trouble and son-ow.
And when ye see me Edie dance  and she'll

dance to ye as if ye were a crowned head  ye'll
forget everything.'

Ah, I'll forget everything,' said the other ;
he added, musing, ' I'll do that easy, whether or
no.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE FIRST SHOCK.

John left the hospital, he scarcely knew when,
and could not tell how. He had forgotten,
though he never could for a moment forget,
that he had left waiting for him the two menthe

man who Remember him !  it seemed

to John an impossibility that ever again, even
if he lived a hundred years, he could forget
what had been revealed to him that day, or
the look of the man's face, who suddenly ina
moment had lifted the veil of his own childish
life, and made the playful, sweet recollection
which had never died out of his mind an
instrument of torture.

He was conscious when he came out from
under the shadow of the great building in

VOL. III. K

which his mother's life was spent, and found
himself on the bridge with the clear vacancy of
the river on each side of him, that the afternoon
had waned, that the sun was going down, and
that a sentiment of the coming evening, with
its rest and quietness, was already in the air.
But that a long time had elapsed since in hot
haste and excitement he had crossed that
bridge, going to demand from his mother an explanation
of this horror, he could not tell. It
was a moment, an age, he could not tell which.
Despair had been in his soul, mingled with a
passionate determination that this thing should
not be, when he went: but he was still and
silent as he returned. He had not received
either explanation or proof. His mother's panic
was proof enough on one side, as were the few
words that he had said on the other. These
words alone were unanswerable, unforgettable.
If the convict had vanished from his eyes unnamed,
John felt that his fond recollection of
that child in his night-gown was enough to
have proved all the terrible story. For who
could know it but himself and one other, himself
and his father ?

His father ! What a name that was, full of
tenderness, full of honour, a name that could
neither be obliterated nor transferred, nor lost
in forgetfulness. A man's father is his father
for ever, whatever circumstances may arise.

John, the son of : is not that the primitive

description, the first distinction of every man,
the thing which gives him standing among his
fellows ? The mother may or may not have
a name of her own, a reputation of her own 
what does it signify ? John, the son of Emily
Sandford  oh no, that was not his natural
description. He was John, the son of Robert
May. And Robei-t May was the convict whom
he had picked up in the street, of whom he had
been so kindly indulgent, so contemptuously
tolerant.

John did not follow this train of thought. It
gleamed before him as he went along, that
was all ; and once more he paused on the
middle of the bridge, remembering how he had
done so before at the different crises of his life.
How he had smiled not so many days ago, on
his birthday, when he passed over it and thought
of his own boyish despair at seventeen, and the

impulse he had felt to rush away, and cut all
the ties that bound him, and go off to the ends
of the world to struggle out a career for himself
all alone. At twenty-one he had looked out
over the same parapet, on what seemed the
same outgoing sails, and had laughed to himself
in high self-complacence and content at that
foolish petulance of his youth. It was not yet
three weeks ago  but then he had felt himself
the master of his own fate with prosperity and
hope in every circumstance of his life  the ball
at his foot as he had said. Not three weeks
ago ! and now here he stood a ruined man,
crushed by disgi-ace and humiliation, and made
to appear as if in his own person he deserved
that doom  the son of his father !  doing what
he had always been expected to do, betraying
those who trusted in him. John grasped the
stony parapet and looked oh no, with no idea
of self-destruction  that was an impossible as it
was a contemptible mode of escape : but with
a bitter indignant persuasion that his early plan
would have been the best, and that to have
gone away beyond the knowledge of any who
had over heard his name  away into the unknown,

fatherless, motherless, friendless  would
have been after all the most expedient for him,
the only wise thing to do.

A convict : a convict ! He went on afterwards
setting his teeth, saying this to himself.
It was not a thing that could be thought over
calmly : his thinking got into mere repetition to
himself of these words, which seemed to circle
about him like the flies in the air as he walked
on. A convict ! There was not the slightest
reason to doubt it : it proved itself : no man but
one could have held in his imagination and
recollection that old innocent picture which had
been John's so long. The pretty innocent Httle
picture that might have come out of a child's
book, "smith its little spice of innocent wrongness,
the baby disorder, the mutinous please
of it ! It had been sweet to his memory for
years  and now all at once it became horrible,
a thing his heart gi-ew sick to think of.

John felt that to few people could it be so
horrible as it was to him. Honors and integrity,
and noble meaning, and a high scot of everything
base had been the very air he breathed.
He had stood on this foundation as some people

stand on wealth, and some on family and connections.
The other pupils in the office had in
many cases possessed a foundation of that other
kind : but, as for John, he had always stood high
on those personal qualities, on the fact that no
reproach could be brought against him, and that
whatever records were brought to light he never
could be shamed. That very morning when he
set out to go to the office, puzzled about the loss
of the copy, but fearing nothing, feeling in all
heaven and earth no shadow of anything to fear,
with his papers in his pocket, there was not so
much as that cloud like a man's hand to warn him.
And yet he had been on the eve of in-execrable
and ruinous disgrace. Only to think of it 
this morning with a spotless reputation and
every prognostic in his favour : and now  a convict's
son !

When the soul is overcome in this way with
sudden trouble, how constantly does the sufferer
feel that the blow has been administered skilfully
in that way of all others which cuts most
deeply. There were many other kinds of suffering
which John could have borne, he thought,
patiently enough  but this ! Shame ! It was

the defeat of all his efforts, the keen and poignant
contradiction of all he had striven after.
And he was wise enough to know that the fu'st
impulse of indignant resistance and that cry of
despair with which a man protests that he cannot
and Tvdll not bear what has befallen him 
were alike futile. There it was, not to be got
over ; and bear it he must, whatever ensued.

In this maze of di-dreadful thought, he came
home to the little rooms in which his virtuous
and austere young life had been passed, not
knowing in the least what he was going to do,
feeling only that he must acknowledge the 
man  the conflict  acknowledge him, and thus
give him more or less the command of his life.
John had been in a fever of excitement and suspense
when he went away. He was now calm
enough, quite quiet and resolute, though he had
as yet no plan of action. He walked quickly,
absorbed in himself and the consequences to
himself, without thinking of what might have
happened on the other side ; not able, indeed,
without a sinking sensation, to think of the other
side at all  and pushed open the door which was
unlatched. Probably he had left it so when he

went out, he could not tell. He did not remember
indeed anything about how he had
come out. Mr. Barrett's appearance and every
secondary circumstance had disappeared from
his mind; yet he woke, as he felt the door
give way under his hand, to the idea that
he must have left it so. It is not a thing todo
in London, not even in a quiet little street
out of the way. Probably he had done it in his
madness in the first shock of his dismay.

It gave him an extraordinary check in the
height of his concentrated self-control, to find
everything empty when he came in. There
was no trace even that anyone had ever been
there. The respectable little sitting-room looked
exactly as it had done ever since he knew it
the chairs put back in their places, the
Standard carefully folded upon the table where
he had left it in the morning, no appearance
anywhere that anything had happened since
then. He stood still for a moment with a gasp
of dismay, wondering whether he had only
dreamt all this, if it had been a mere nightmare, a
feverish vision. Could he but persuade himself
that this was so, that he was the same John

Sandford he had been in the morning, with the
ball still at his foot ! For the moment a wild
hope gleamed across him ; but it was only for a
moment. He sat down and stared about him,
wondering to see everything the same. All the
same ! yet altogether changed, as no external
convulsion could have changed it : an earthquake
would have been nothing in comparison.
If a bomb had suddenly exploded upon the
decent carpet among the inoffensive furniture,
and shattered the innocent house to pieces, what
would that have been in comparison ? These
were the ridiculous thoughts that came across
his mind, and almost made him laugh in the
first revulsion of feeling, which was disappointment
and relief, and yet was nothing at all.
For what did it matter ? The thing had been,
and could not be waved out. It existed and
could never be swept away. Ignore it if he
could, forget it even if he could, there all the
same it would be. He could not be rid of it
ever, for ever. He sat silent awhile realising
this, and then rose and went to ring the bell :
but, before he could touch it, he was startled by
a tap at the door.

It was only his landlady who came in  but
she had her best cap on, and looked as if she
had something to say. She was embarrassed,
and turned round and round on her finger a
ring which was too big for her.

If you please, Mr. Sandford ' she began.

'Yes'? I left two  people here. Do you
know where they have gone V

That's why I made so bold as to come in,
Mr. Sandford. I don't like saying of it, sir.
You have always been a gentleman as I've been
glad to have in my house.'

Yes. What message did they leave 'i Where
have they gone? I came back expecting to
find them here.'

1 never was fond of young gentlemen,' said
Mrs. Short, taking out her handkerchief. ' They
pay well, as a rule, and they don't give much
trouble, being out all day : but I've always been
afraid of them. They're chancy-like  you don't
know what they may do, or who they may
bring.'

'Another time,' said John, 'if you've anything
to say to me  but at present I want to

kiiow what message Did they say where

they were going?'

The gentlemen said nothing to me, nor to
no one. They just scuttled out of the house
leaving all the chairs about. I thank my goodness
gracious stars that I can't see nothing-gone
: but, Mr. Sandford  I've a great respect
for you, su', as a gentleman that can take care
of yourself when many can't, and always tidy,
and keeps no bad company, leastways never did
till now '

John only half understood Avhat she was saying,
but he caught at the words bad company,
and replied, with a faint laugh,

I've been very particular about that, have I
not?' he said.

Yes, sir : to do you justice, you've been very
particular. And that makes me feel it aU the
more. Do you know, Mi*. Sandford, who's been
out and in of my house aU these days, sitting in
my parlour, like he was the master? Oh, don't
tell me, su*, as you knew aU the time I A man
as has just come out of prison, a man as has
just served out his time, and that was foi-teen

years. Mr. Sandford, don't tell me as you
knew !'

Yes,' said John ; * I knew ; but T didn't

know ' here he stopped and gazed at her,

quieted he could not tell by what sentiment,
and feeling as if the words hung suspended in
the air which he ought to have said. ' I didn't
know he was  my father '  that was what he
had intended to say.

I'm very sorry, sir,' the woman said. 'You've
always been most regular, paying to the day,
and always civil, and a pleasure to serve you ;
but I can't do with that sort of visitors in my
house. I can't, sir ; I've got my character to
think of. I've told Betsy, if they come again, to
shut the door in their face. And, Mr. Sandford,
it's a week's notice, please, sir. I don't doubt
but you can easy suit yourself. There are folks
that think nothing of their character so long's
they get a good let: and except for this I
haven't got a word, not a word, to say against
you.'

John stared at her blankly, taking her meaning
with difficulty into his mind : then gradually
perception came to him.

You want me,' he said, ' to go away V

*Yes, sir, that's what it's come to,' the
woman said, clearing her throat.

John kept his eyes upon her  trying to intimidate
her, she thought ; in reality, trying to
fathom her, to make out what she meant  then
he burst into a sudden laugh.

'To go away  for what? Because I am 
in trouble, because my life is not so happy as it
has been. Well, it is a good reason enough.
Yes, Mrs. Short, I'U go.'

You  in trouble, sir !' The woman's voice
rose into a sort of shriek. ' Oh, Mr. Sandford,
what have you done ? you that were always so
respectable. Can't you put it right ? Oh, Mr.
Sandford, I never thought of that. How much
is it ? Tell your ma, sir, and, whatever it costs
her, she'll set it right.'

John found himself strangely amused by all
this. It came into the midst of his misery like
a scrap of farce to reeve his strained bosom
by laughter. He knew well enough, too, the
phraseology and ways of thinking of his landlady,
and he tried to understand the idea he
had suggested to her imagination ; and half to

keep up the joke, tlioiigli it was a poor one,
half because he was incapable of explanations,
he made no other reply.

Oh, Mr. Sandford,' she cried again, coming
np to him, laying her hand on his arm, ' excuse
me if I make too free ; but tell your ma, sir, for
the love of God. She'll not let you come to
shame for a bit of money. Oh, no, no, no ! I
scan tell by myself. I never breathed a word of
it to any mortal, but my Tom was once  he
was once  I never knew how it could have
been, for a better boy never was. It was some
temptation of the devil, sir, that's what it was.
I saw the boy was miserable, but I couldn't get
a word out of him  till at last one night I went
down on my knees, and I got hold of him where
he was sitting with his head in his hands, and
forced it from him. It was a good bit of money,
sir. I'll not say but it kept me low a longtime
: but what was that in comparison with
my Tom's credit, and his situation, and his
whole life ? He would have fled the country
next day, if I hadn't got it out of him that
night. Now, Mr. Sandford haven't I a right

to speak? Oli, for God's sake, go out before
you sleep and tell your ma I'

'Mrs. Short, you are a good woman. It's
not what you think. I am not in debt, nor is
it money that troubles me. And my mother
knows ; I've told her. Thank you for speaking.
I'll go as soon as I have found another
set of rooms, or perhaps I may go abroad.
But, anyhow, I'll clear out 's\'itliin the week
since you wish it.'

Yom mother knows V said Ii's. Short, with
a tremble in her voice.

Yes  everything,' said John, with a smile
and a sigh.

And about these  men ? If so be as she
knows  and you'll promise to see them no
more '

I can't give any promise,' said John, shaking
his head. But he looked her in the face,
in a way, Mrs. Shoi-t thought, that those who
are falling into bad company and evil ways
never do. He was not afraid to meet her eye.
She shook her head standing over him, feeling
that the problem was one which it was above

her power to solve. She said at last, in a
subdued tone :

If you've told your ma  she wouldn't countenance
what was wrong. Oh, Lord, I wish I
knew what to do for the best. Mr. Sandford,
if it's really true that your ma knows, I'll take
back my warning, sir, and we'll try again. But
oh, you're young, and you don't know how
quick things go when you take the wrong road.
Oh, Mr. Sandford, though you've had so much
of your liberty, you're very young still !'

'Do you think so?' said John, with a faint
smile. He felt a mundi-ed : there seemed no
spring of youth or hope left in him. Then he
said suddenly, with an almost childlike appeal
to human kindness : * I've had no food all day.
Go and get me something to eat like a kind
soul. I've had no dinner or anything.'

No dinner !' she said, with an outcry of distress.
This seemed something so dreadful, such
a breach of all natural laws, that it swept away
every lesser emotion. And John, too, though he
had said this not because he was hungry, felt a
little quiver in his own hp as he realised the
extraordinary fact. He had had no dinner I

Such a thing had perhaps never happened before
in his whole life.

In the evening, when he sat alone with no
company but his lamp, having eaten and refreshed
himself (and to his own great wonder he was
quite hungry when food was set before him,.
though he did not think he could have tasted a
morsel), John heard a soft step pass two or three
times close to his window. The street was very-quiet
after dark, and there was so much significance
in the persistent re-passing, so close as if
the passer-by meant to look in at the sides of his
blind, that his attention was roused. He looked
out cautiously, but saw no one. His heart began
to beat high  who could it be but one person ?
John recollected suddenly the soft tread, the
cautious, carefully-poised foot, as of one used
to moving about steadily, to wearing shoes such
as indoor dwellers wear. It came over him-u-ith
a sickening sensation that a tread so soft would
be useful to those who Heed by preying upon
others : and then a bitter self-reproach seized
him : for the unfortunate who had suddenly become
so interesting to him, was not, he said to
himself, after all a common thief that he should

VOL. III. L

think such horrible injurious things of him.
While he was watching, listening, he heard all
at once a ring at the door. The stealthy visitor
had made up this mind at last. John stood
waiting, breathless, in a miserable confusion of
feeling, not knowing how he was to meet with,
how he was to speak to the man who was his
father, when the door opened. But it was not
May who came in ; it was a figure more unexpected,
more startling, the tall dark shadow of a
veiled woman, who, putting back part of the
shade from her face as she entered noiselessly,
presented the grave countenance of his mother,
disturbed by unusual excitement to John's
astonished eyes.

CHAPTER X.

MOTHER AND SON.

Mrs. Sandford looked round upon the tidy little
sitting-room, but with eyes of alarm that sought
in the cm-pains and shadows for some apparition
she feared, and not as a woman looks at the
dwelling-place of her child. She had never been
here before. Susie had visited him from time to
time with a woman's interest in his soundings,
but his mother never. It was all strange
to her as if he had been a stranger. She gave
that keen look round which noted nothing except
what was its object, that there was nobody to
be seen.

'Is he here?' she said, in a low voice of
alarm, without any greeting or preface. Caresses
did not pass between these two either

L 2

at meeting or at parting, and there was no time
to think even of the conventional salutation
now.

No, he is not here.'

She sat down with a sigh of relief, and put
back altogether the heavy gauze veil which had
enveloped her head.

Is he coming back ? Are you Tell

them to admit no one, no one ! while I am here.'

I do not think you need fear ; he is not coming
back.'

She leaned back in her chair with relief. It
was the same chair in which the other had been
sitting when J john had left the room in the afternoon.
This recollection gave him a curious
sensation, as if two images, which were so
antagonistic had met and blended in spite of
themselves.

I don't know what I said to you this afternoon
; I was so taken by surprise : and yet I
was not surprised. I  expected it : only not
that it should have happened to you. It is
better,' she continued, after a pause, 'that it
should have happened to you.'

Perhaps,' said John ; ' I may be better able

to bear it  but why did I have no warning that
such a thing could be.'

Oh, why V said she, with a quick breath of
impatience  rather as demanding why he should
ask than as allowing the possibility of giving
an explanation. She loosened her long black
cloak and put it back from her shoulders, and
thus the shadows seemed to open a Httle, and
the Hght to concentrate in her pale, clear face.
It is but rarely, perhaps, that child-en observe
the beauty of their mothers, and never, save
when it is indicated to them by the general
voice, or by special admiration. John had
never thought of Mrs. Sandford in this light ;
but now it suddenly struck him for the first
time that she had been, that she was, a woman
remarkable in appearance, as in character, with
features which she had not transmitted to her
children, no common-place, comely type, but
features which seemed meant for lofty emotions,
for the tragic and impassioned. She had not
been in circumstances, so far as he had seen
her, to develop these, and her lofty looks had
fallen into rigidity, and the austereness of rule
and routine. Sometimes they had melted when

she looked at Susie, but no higher aspect than
that of a momentary softening had ever animated
her countenance in his ken. Now it was
different. Her fine nostrils moved, dilating
and trembling, with a sensitiveness which was
a revelation to her son ; her eyes shone ; her
mouth, which was so much more delicate than
he had been aware, closed with an impassioned
force, in which, however, there was the same
suspicion of a quiver. Her face was full of
sensation, of feeling, of passion. She was not
the same woman as that austere and authoritative
one whom he had all this time known.
When he returned from giving the order which
she asked, that nobody should be admitted, he
foimd her leaning back in her chair with her
eyes closed, which seemed to make the rest of
her face, which was all quivering with emotion,
even more expressive than before.

 I thought that I had not told you enough 
that you deserved explanations, which, painful,
most painful as they are, ought to be given to
you now. I suppose I told you very little today


Nothing, or next to nothing,' he replied.

I suppose  I wanted to spare myself,' she
said, with a faint quiver of a smile.

'Mother,' cried John, 'I will take it for
granted. Why should you make yourself
wretched on my account ? And, after all, when
the fact is once allowed, what does it matter ?
I know all that I need to know  now.'

'Perhaps you are right, John. You know
what I would have died to keep from yom*
knowledge, if it were not folly and nonsense
to use such words. Much, much would be
spared in this world if one could purchase the
extinction of it by dying. I know that very
well : it is a mere phrase.'

He made no reply, but watched with increasing
interest the changes in her face.

It was thought better you should not know.
What good could it have done you ? A father
dead is safe; he seems something sacred, whatever
he may have been in reality. / thought, I don't
shrink from the responsibility, that it was better
for you ; and my father agreed with me,
John.'

'Grandmother did not,' he said, quickly;
now I know what she meant.'

Then,' she said, ' now that you know, you
can judge between us.'

She made no appeal to his affection. She
was not of that kind. And John Alas sufficiently
like her to pause, not to utter the words that
came to his lips. He seemed once more to see
himself in his boyhood, so full of ambition and
pride and confidence. After awhile he said,

It is much for me to say, but I think I approve.
If it is hard upon me as a man, what
would it have been when I was a boy?'

I am glad,' she said, ' that you see it in that
light;' and then she paused, as if concluding
that part of the subject. She resumed again,
after a moment : ' I took every precaution.
We disappeared from the place, and changed
our name. My father and mother changed their
home, broke the thread  I left no clue that I
could think of.' She stopped again and cleared
her throat, and said, with difficulty, * Does he
think he has any clue V

John could not make any reply. How his
heart veered from side to side !  sometimes all
with her in her pride and passion, sometimes
touched with a sudden softening recollection of

the man with his sophistries, his self-reconciling
philosophy, his good humour, and his almost
childish, ingratiating smile.

I don't see how he can have found out anything.
I have never lost sight of him  that was
easy enough. He has had whatever indulgences,
or alleviations of his lot were permitted. 1 left
money in the chaplain's hand for him when the
time came for his coming out. I did not trust
the chaplain even with any clue.'

The balance came round again as she spoke,
and John remembered how, in this very room,
the same story had been told to him from the
other side, and he had himself cried out, indignantly,
' Could you not find them ? Was there
no clue V

He said now, breathlessly, ' Did you think that
right V

Eight !' She paused with a Httle gasp, as if
she had been stopped suddenly in her progress
by an unexpected touch. ' Could there be any
question on the subject V

Did Susie think it light V

Susie !' She paused again with impatience.
Susie is one of those women who are all-forgiving,

and who have no judgment of right
and wrong.'

And you never hesitated, mother I'

Never,' she said, a faint colour Hke the reflection
of a flame passing over her pale face.
Why should I hesitate ? Could there be a
question'? Alas! Fate has done it instead of
me : but could I  I, your mother, bring such
a Avrong upon you of my own free will ? Don't
you think I would rather have died  to use that
foolish phrase again  I use it to mean the
extremity of wish and effort,  rather than have
exposed you to know, much less to encounter  ?
Don't let us speak of it,' she said, giving her
head a slight nervous shake, as if to shake the
thought far from her. ' Upon that subject I
never had a doubt.'

And yet he was a man, like other men : and
his children at least were not his judges. Most
men who have children have something, somebody
to meet them after years of separation.'

Did he say that f

He did not blame anybody. Knowing nothing
about it but that he was a wretched poor
criminal, and that this was his story, I, who was

one of the offenders without knotting, was very
indignant.'

 You were very india-nant !'

Yes, mother ; I thought it cruel. My heart
ached for the man ; fourteen years of privation
and loneliness, and not a soul to say " Welcome '*
when he came back into the cold world.'

'He had money, which buys friends  the kind
of friends he liked.'

She had changed her attitude, and sat straight
up, her eyes shining, the lines of her face all
moving, rising up enraged and splendid in her
ovm defence.

It seemed to have gone to his heart  the
abandonment  and it went to mine, merely to
hear the story told.'

I bow,' she said, ' to the tenderness of both
yom* hearts I I always felt there was a certain
likeness. I act on other laws :  to being a convict
back into my family, to shame my young,
high-minded, honourable son, whose path in life
promised no difficulty ; to shame my gentle
child who has all a woman's devotion to whoever
suffers or seems to suffer ; I don't speak of
myself. For myself, I would die a hundred

times (that phrase again !) rather than be

exposed No, no, no  nothing, nothing

would have induced me to act otherwise. You
don't know what it is  you don't know what he
is. Fate, I will not say God, has baffled my
plans ; but do not let him come near me, for I
cannot bear it. I will rather leave everything
and go away  to the end of the world.'

John had in his heart suffered all that a proud
and pure-minded young man can suffer from
the thought of what and who his father was :
and he had felt his heart sicken with disgust,
turning from him and loathing him. But when
his mother spoke thus a sudden revulsion of
feeling arose in him. He could not hear him
so assailed. A sudden partisanship, that family
solidarity which is so curious in its operations,
filled his mind. He felt angry with her that
she attacked him, though she said no more than
it had been in his own heart to say.

He replied, with some indignation in the calmness
of his words :

I think you may save yourself trouble on
that account. I have not seen him again. When
I came back he was gone. They had not waited

for me. They left no message. I don't know
where to find him.'

Gone V she said. * Gone T

Yes, mother. He delivered me from the difficulty,
the misery in which I was coming back,
with the intention of saying  what it is so hard
to say to a man who  may be one's  father.'
John gi*ew pale, and then gi-ew red. The word
was almost impossible to utter, but he brought
it forth at last. ' But he did not wait for my
hesitation or difficulties. He relieved me. They
were gone without leasing a sign.'

Who do you mean by they V

*He had a friend,' John answered, faltering,
a friend who is my friend too. An actor,
Monti-essor.'

Montressor I' said Mrs. Sandford, with something
Hke a scream. Then she covered her eyes
suddenly with her hand. * Oh, what scenes,
what scenes that name brings back to me !
they were friends, as such men call friendship.
They encoui-aged each other in all kinds of evil.
Montressor ! and how came he to be a friend of
yours?'

It is an old story, mother : I daresay you

have forgotten. It was entirely by chance.
Susie knows. I will make a confession to you,'
he said, with a sudden impulse. ' I was very
unhappy, and full of resentment towards ever-body
'

Towards me,' she said, quietly, ' I remember
very well. That was the time when you said I
was Emily, and would not have me for your
mother.'

She smiled at the boyish petulance, as a
mother thus outraged has a right to smile : and
perhaps it was natural she should remember it so.
But it was not the moment to remind him. He
smiled too, but his smile was not of an easy
kind.

I was altogether wrong,' he said, ' 1 confess
it. When I met this man, I called myself
by the name which seemed to come uppermost
in that whirl of trouble. I said I was John
May.'

She was silent for a time, not making any
reply, her anger not increased, as he thought it
would be : for, indeed, her mind was too full to
be affected by things which at ordinary times
would have moved her much.

And so she said, after a time,  that was
how he found you out. I Avill not call it fate 
it seems like God. And yet, for such a childish,
small offence, it was a di-dreadful penalty. Poor
boy ! you thought to revenge yourself a little
more on me  and instead you have brought
upon your ovn head  this '

In the silence that followed  for what could
John reply?  there came a slight intrusion of
sound from the house. Some one went out or
came in downstairs, a simple sound, such as in
the natural state of affairs would not even have
roused any attention. It awakened all the
smouldering panic in Mrs. Sandford's face. She
started, and caught John by the aiTQ.

What's that ? What's that ? It is some one
coming  he is coming back,'

No, mother. It is the people below.'

Where is he?' she cried, huskily, recovering
herself, yet not loosing John's aiTQ. 'Where is
he ? Where does he Hve ?  not here, don't say
he is here.'

I don't know where he Ives. He has never
told me, and he left no message, no address.'
'No address,' she said. 'You don't know where

he lives, to stop him, but he knows where you
live, to hold you in his power. I will meet him
in the face when I go out from yom' door.'

The horror in her looks was so great that
John tried to soothe her.

There is no reason to fear that. He went
away, though I had asked them to wait. Perhaps
he will come no more.'

Do me one favour, John,' she cried, grasping
his arm closer ; ' do this one thing for me.
Before he can come home again, before he can
find you out, this very night, if you are safe so
long, leave this place. Find somewhere else to
live in. Oh ! you shall have no trouble. I will
find you a place ; but leave this, leave it now
at once. Leave him no clue. What ? he has
left you none, you say? Why should you
hesitate ? Come away with me, John. For the
love of God ! and if you have learned to feel
any respect or any pity for your mother  for
the poor woman whom once you called

Emily John, think what it was to me

that you should call me Emily, that you should
refuse me the name of mother. And yet you
were my boy, for whom I had denied myself

that you might take no harm. Oh, if you have
anything' to make up to me for that, do it now.
Come away with me to-night, leave this place,
let him find no clue, no clue I'

Something of this was said almost in dumb
show, her voice ging way in her passion of
entreaty. She lead clasped his ann in both her
hands as her excitement grew. Her breath was
hot on John's cheek. There was something in
the clasp of her hands, in the force of her
passionate determination, that made him feel
like a child in her hold.

Mother,' he said, ' what would be the use ?
Do you think I could disappear ? If ever that
was possible, it isn't now. Whoever wants to
find me, if not here, will find me at the office,
or wherever I may be working. I can't sink
down through a trap-door into the unknol ;
that might be on the stage but not in real life.
How could one like me, -ith work to do for my
having, and employers and people that know me,
disappear ?'

A remnant, perhaps, of John's own self-esteem,
which had been so bitterly pulled dovn
by the incidents of this day, awoke again. It

VOL. III. M

was only the insignificant who could obliterate
themselves and leave no clue. For him to do it
was impossible. It was but a melancholy pride,
but it was pride still.

He will not go to the office after you. He
knoAvs none of your friends. If you leave this,
and give no address, he will perhaps not seek
for you, for that would be a great deal of
trouble. He never liked trouble. We should
gain time at least to think what should be done.
John, do what I ask you ! Come aMay with
me to-night. I will manage everything. You
shall have no trouble. John !'

Mother,' he cried, taking her hands into his,
at the end, when all is said that can be said,
he is our father, Susie's and mine. We can't
leave him alone to perish. We can't forsake
him. Mother, now that I know the truth, I
know it, and there is an end. I can't put it out
of my mind again. I thought my father was
dead, but he is not dead, he is alive. It can
never be put out of sight again. It may be
bitter enough, temple enough, but we can't put
it out of our minds. There it is  he is alive.

He is my business more than anything else.
There can be no choice for Susie and me.'

She had been trying to free her hands while
he spoke. She stung them out of his hold
now, thrusting him from her.

I might have known,' she said, trembling
\'ith anger and misery, ' I might have known I
Susie, too. What does it matter that I have
protected you, saved you, guarded you ? I am
not yom business, 1 or my comfort  but he 

he What Wll you do with him? where

will you take him ? If he comes here, the
woman of this house will not bear it long, I
warn you. What vnW you do, John ? Will you
take him to your village among the people you
care for? Where vdW you take him? What
Yi\]. you do with him, John?'

'My village?' John said. And there came
over him a chill as of death. His face grew
ashy pale, his limbs refused to support him
longer ; he sank into the vacant chair, and leaned
his head, which swam, on his two hands, and
looked at his mother opposite to him with eyes
wild with sudden dismay and hoiTor: all the

M 2

day long amid his troubles he had not thought
of that. His village ! And must he tell this
dreadful story there'? and unfold all the new
revelations of failure, betrayal, disgrace and of
how he had no name, and only shame for an
inheritance '? Must he tell it all there ?

CHAPTER XL

SUSIE AND HER LOVERS.

Susie had been nearly a month in Edgelev, and
a new faculty had developed in her  a faculty
that Hes doiTaant for a life long with many
people, and that is impossible to others  the
faculty of Hvinginthe country. She had never
known what that was. Not only in town, in
the midst of London, but in the strange, nid,
conventional, severely-regulated life of the gi-eat
hospital, she had spent all the most important
years of her life, and thought she knew no other
way. Had she been interrogated on the subject,
Susie would have said that the country
might be very good for a change  it was, as
everybody knew, the very place for convalescents;
where people ought to be sent to get

well : but for those who were well to start Avithy
oh no ! This she would have said in all good
faith, in that serene acquaintance with what
lie rejected, which is the panoply of the simple
mind.

But when she got to the country, almost the
first morning Susie woke up in the quiet, in the
clear air, and kind, mild sunshine which beamed
out of the skies like a smile of God, and had no
stony pavement to rebound from and turn into
an oven  with a soft rapture such as all her life
she had never known before. She had thought
she liked the crowd, the stir, the perpetual call
upon her, and what people called the life, which
was nowhere so vigorous, so intent, so full of
change, as in town. But in a moment she became
aware that all this was a mistake, and that
it was for the country she had been born. This
had been a delightful revelation to Susie. And
there had followed quickly another revelation,
which never is unimportant in a young woman's
life, but which in her peculiar existence had
been somehow eluded : and this was her own
possession of that feminine power and influence
of which books are full, but which Susie had

not seen much of in ordinary life. Sometimes,
indeed, there had happened cases in which a
young doctor had somehow been transported
beyond the Hne of his duties, by some one, perhaps
a sister, most probably a young lady on
probation, or one who was playing at nursing,
as some vi]l. And this had been at once \a-ong,
which gave it piquancy as an incident, and
amusing. But such incidents were very rare ;
people in the hospital being too busy to think
of anything of the kind. Susie had been, without
knowing, the object of one or two dawning
enthusiasms of this description. In one case she
had perhaps vaguely suspected the possibility :
but Mi'S. Sandford gave neither opportunity nor
encouragement, and the thing had bloT\Ti over.

Now, however, it had fully dallied upon her
that she herself, tranquil and simple in early
maturity, no longer a gil, as she said to herself,
nor in the age of romance, had come to that moment
of sovereignty which sooner or later falls
to most women, notwithstanding all statistics 
the power of actually affecting, disposing of, the
life of another. It does not always turn out to
be of profound importance in a man's Hfe that

he has been refused by a certain woman. But
for the time, at least, both parties feel that it is
of great importance : and the result of acceptance,
colouring and determining the course of
two lives, cannot be exaggerated. Susie discovered,
first with amusement, afterwards with
a little fright, that the visits of Percy Spencer
and of Mr. Cattley were not without meaning.
The two curates, who were so different ! Their
position gave them a certain right to come, and
her position as a stranger and a temporary inhabitant
exempted her, so far, at least, as she
was aware, from the remarks and criticisms to
which another young woman living alone might
have been subject. But Susie had nobody to
interfere, no duenna, not even a well-trained
maid to say not at home. These visitors came
in with a little preliminary knock at the parlour
door without asking if it was permitted  without
any formality of announcement. The door
of the house was always open, and Sarah in the
kitchen would have thought it strange indeed
to be interrupted in her morning work by anyone
ringing at the bell.

A month is a long time when it is passed in

this land of intimacy. Snsie was asked frequently
to the rectory, not always with Mrs.
Egei-ton's free will  bnt there are necessities in
that way which ladies in the country cannot
ignore : and it Alas very rarely that a day passed
Without a meeting in the village street, if no
more  at some cottage where Susie had made
herself useful, but most frequently in her own
little sanctuary, in the parlour so familiar to
both these gentlemen, so much more familiar to
them than to her. At first they were continually
meeting there, and their meetings were not
pleasant. For Percy did his best to exasperate
Mr. Cattley by a pretended deference to his old
age and antiquated notions, or by the elevation
of his own standard of churchmanship over the
mild pretensions of the clergyman who did not
call himself a priest. And Mr. Cattley would
retaliate by times With a middle-aged contempt
for boyish enthusiasms, by assuming his young-friend
that by-and-by he would see things in a
different light.

After a while, however, they fell into a
system, arranging their comings and goings
A\-ith a mutual and jealous care in order that

they might not meet. And they both gave
Susie a great deal of information about themselves.
She sat, and smiled, and listened, not
without a subdued pleasure in that power which
she had discovered later than usual, and which
even this mutual antagonism made more
flattering. Percy was full of schemes in which
he demanded her interest.

Everything has gone on here in the old-fashioned
way,' he said, 'in the famous old let-alone
way. Aunt Mary has pottered about : she is the
only one that has done anything. My father
never had any energy. He would have let anyone
take the reins out of his hands. And she
has done it ; and she has always had old Cattley
under her thumb. He has not dared to say his
soul was his own. To see him sit and stare and
worship her used to be our fun when we were
boys. Jack must have told you.'

No, never. John saw nothing that was not
perfect. He worshipped all of you, I think.'

Some of us too much, perhaps  not me, 1
am certain,' said Percy. 'But old Cattley
was the greatest joke. Miss Sandford. How
you would have laughed I' (Susie, however.

did not laugh at all at this suggestion, but sat
as gi-ave as a judge, with her eyes bent on her
sewing.) ' But nothing could have been more
ecclesiastical,' Percy continued, recovering
his gravity. ' It was the first thing I had to do
in getting the parish into my hands. Aunt
Mary had to be put down.'

Has she been put dovn?' said Susie, laughing
a Httle in her turn.

I flatter myself, completely,' said the young
man. ' She has learned to keep her own place,
which ' is everything. My father gives no
trouble ; he sees how things have been neglected,
and he is quite willing that I should have it
all in my ovn hands. I hope, especially if I
have your help, Miss Sandford, to have the
cottage hospital and all the improvements of
which we have talked carried out. If I might
hope that you would set it going '

But would not that be like your ait's interference
over again, with no right at all,'
Susie said.

No one can have any right  save what is
given them by the clergy. And you are not
my aunt  very different ! How I should love

to delegate as much as is fit of my authority to
you !' He paused a moment, with a sigh and
tender look, at which Susie secretly laughed,
but outwardly took no notice. Then he added :
*Ait Mary would have no delegation. She
interferes as if she thought she had a right todo
it  a pretension not tenable for a moment.
But to entrust the woman's part  to find an
Manilla Domini, dear Miss Sandford, in you !'

Mr. Cattley was not so lively as this. He
would sit for a long time by the little worktable
which had belonged to old Mrs. Sandford,
and say very little. He would sometimes relate
to Susie something about her grandparents, and
talk of the pretty old lady with her white hands.

They were here when I first came,' he would
say. ' I was a little lonely when I came. I
was one of the youngest of an immense family.
My people were glad to get rid of us, I think,
especially the young ones, who were of no great
account. And my mother was dead. Edgeley
Alas very pleasant to me. I was taken up at the
rectory as if I had been a son of the house. And
nobody can tell what she  what they all  were
to me."

Mr. Cattley coughed a Kttle over the lie, to
make it look as if it were a mistake, changing it
into they.

Mrs. Egerton,' said Susie, A\'ith a directness
which brought a little colour to the old curate's
cheek, ' must have been very pretty then.'

To me she is beautiful now,' he said, fervently,
' and always will be. I am not of the opinion
that age has anything to do with beauty. It
becomes a different kind. It is not a ghTs or a
young woman's beauty any longer, but it is just
as beautiful. You ll forgive me, Miss Sandford
'

I have nothing to forgive,' said Susie, but
she said it vdth a little heat. * I like people to
be faithful,' she added, perhaps indiscreetly.

Mr. Cattley did not answer for some time.
And then he said :

'I am going away now, and another life is?
beginning. I have been rather a di-eager all
my life, but I must be so no longer. I begin to
feel the difference. I think, if you will not be
offended, that it is partly you who have taught
me '

I !' cried Susie, with something like fright.
I don't know how that couki be '

*Nor I either,' he said, with a smile which
Susie felt to be very ingratiating. ' You have
not intended it, nor thought of it, but still you
have done it. There is something that is so
real in you, if I may say so  a sweet, practical
truth that makes other people think.'

You mean,' said Susie, with a blush, ' that I
am very matter-of-fact V

'No, I don't mean that. I suppose what I
mean is, that I have been going on in a kind of
a dream, and you are so living that I feel the
contrast. You must not ask me to explain. I'm
not good at explaining. But I know what I
mean. I wish you knew Overtop, Miss Sandford.'


'Yes,' said Susie, simply, 'I should like to
know it  when do you go V

He smiled vaguely.

That is what I can't tell,' he said. ' I should
be there now. When do i/ou go, Miss Sandford
f

'I don't know that either,' she said, with a
blush of which she was greatly ashamed. ' I

suppose I ought to go uow : but the country life
is pleasant, far more than I could have thought,
after living so long in town.'

You have always lived in town T

As long as I can remember,' said Susie.

That is perhaps what makes one feel that
you are having through and through. It must
quicken the blood. Now I,' said Mr. Cattley,
am a clodhopper born. I love every thing that
belongs to the country, and nothing of the toTi

except ' he said, and laughed and looked

at her with pleasant, mild, admiring eyes.

You must make an exception,' said Susie, ' or
you will seem to say that you dislike me.'

He shook his head at that vnih a smile  as if
anything so much out of the question could be
imagined by no one. It was all very simple,
tranquil, and sweet, nothing that was impassioned
in it, perhaps a Httle too much of the middle-aged
compose and calm. But Susie Eked the
implied trust, the gentle entire admiration and
appreciation. It might not be romantic, perhaps,
but she had a feeing that she might go to
Overtop or anywhere putting her hand in that
of this mild man. If there was a little prick of

feeling in respect to Mrs. Egerton, who had been
so long the object of his devotion, that was
soothed by the natural triumphant confidence of
youth in its own unspeakable superiority over
everyone who was old : and to Susie at twenty-six
(though that, she was willing to allow, was
not very young) a woman of forty-eight was
a feminine Methuselah, and certainly not to be
feared.

Nothing more had been said ; and these two
were tranquilly sitting together ; she at her
Avork, he close to her little table, in a pleasant
silence which might have been that of the profoundest
calm friendship, or the most tranquil domestic
love. And it might have ended in nothing
more than was then visible  a great mutual
confidence and esteem : or it might end at any
moment in the few words which would suffice
to unite these two lives into one for all their
mortal duration. But as they sat there silently,
in that intense calm fellowship, the ears of both
were caught by the sound of hied footsteps
approaching, so quick, so precipitate, that it was
not possible to dissociate them from the idea of
calamity.

Mr. Cattley lifted his head and looked towards
the door ; Susie involuntarily put down her
work. She thought of an accident, in the semi-professional
habit of her thoughts, and her
niind leaped nati-ally into the question where she
could find bandages and the other appliances?
while he, whose duty took another tm-n, instinctively
felt in his breast-pocket for the old well-worn
Prayer-book, from which he was never
separated. Then there was a clang of the open
door, pushed against the wall by some one
entering eagerly. And the next moment the
parlour door burst open, and Elle appeared  Elle
with her eyes very-side open and shining, her
mouth set finn, a wind of vigorous and rapid
movement coming in with her, disturbing the
papers on the table. The cm-ate jumped up in
alaiTQ, with a cry : 'Elle, what is the matter?*
and a changing colour. Susie thought the same
as he did  that something must have happened
at the rectory, and rose up, but not with the
same eagerness as he.

Oh, you are here, Mr. Cattley,' said Elle,
with an impatient wave of her hand. She was
breathless, scarcely able to get out the words,

VOL. III. N

which ran off in a sort of sibilation at the end.
Then she sat down hastily, and paused to take
breath. 'It was Susie,' she went on, with a
gasp, 'that I wanted to see.'

I will go away,' said the curate, ' but tell me
first that nothing is wrong  that nothing has
happened.'

EUy took a minute or two to recover her
breath, which she drew in long inspirations,
relieving her heart.

Since you are here,' she said, ' you may stay,
for you have known everything. Nothing
wrong ? Oh, everything is wrong. But nothing
has happened to Aunt Mary, if that is what you
mean.'

Mr. Cattley grew very red, and cast a glance
at Susie, who on her part sat down quickly,
silently, without asking any question, which had
its significance. Perhaps she only felt that, as
there was evidently no need for bandages she
could not have much to do with it, either ; perhaps
 but it is unnecessary to investigate further.
For EUy added, immediately,

I have got a letter from Jack, which I don't
understand at all.'

She had recovered her breath. There was an
ah of defiance and resolution upon her face.
She drew her chap into the open space in front
of Susie, and challenged her as if to single
combat.

'I Avant to know,' she said, ' from you  I don't
mind Mr. Cattley being there, because he knows
us both so well, and has been in it all along. I
want to know, from you  is there any reason,
any secret reason, that he could find out and did
not know before, that could stand between Jack
and me V

Susie looked at her with an astonished face,
her mouth a little open, her eyes fixed in wonder.
She did not make any reply, but that was comprehensible,
for the question seemed to take her
altogether by surprise.

I don't think you understand me,' said Elle,
plaintively, ' and I'm sm-e I don't wonder. You
know, Mr. Cattley, at least ; Jack went away full
of his great scheme which was to make him rich,
which was to make Aunt Mary's opposition as
much contrary to prudence as it was to  to good
sense and  everything,' cried Elle, ' for of comes
the only drawback in it, as everybody must have

n2

seen \vith half an eye, was that I was not good
enough for him, a rising engineer, with the finest
profession in the world ! However, we were engaged
all the same. People might say not, bnt
we were  in every sense of the word  I to him
and he to me !'

Her face was like the sky as she told her tale,
now swept by clouds, now clearing into full and
open light. She grew red and pale, and dark
and bright in a continued succession, and kept
her eyes fixed with mingled defiance and appeal
on Susie's face.

Now tell me she said, ' for you must know
is there anything that Jack could find out that
would change all that in a moment 1 What is
there that he could find out that would make him
think differently of himself and of every creature 
Can't you tell me, Susie ? You are his only sister
; you must know, if anyone knows. What is
it ? What is it ? Mr. Cattley, her face is changing
too. Oh, for goodness sake, make her tell
me ! If I only knew, I could judge for myself.
Make her say what it is !'

The clouds that came and went on EUy's face
seemed suddenly to have blown upon that wind

of emotion to Susie's. After her first look of
wonder, she had given the questioner a quick
suspicious troubled glance. Then Susie picked
up her work again and bent her head over it, and
appeared to-withdraw her attention altogether.
She went on working in an agitated way a
minute or two after this appeal had been made
to her. Then she suddenly raised her head.

What could he have found out ? How should
I know what he could find out ? AYhat was
there to find out V

These are the questions I am asking you,'
cried Elle. ' Here Ls his letter. I brought it to
show you. It is a letter,' cried the girl, ' which
anybody may see, not what anyone could calla
love-letter. I suppose he has foimd out, after
having spoken, that he did not  care for me ashe
thought.'

Elle,' said the curate, ' I know nothing about
it  but I am sure that is not true.'

Oh, you should see the letter,' she cried, with
a faint laugh. The clouds with a crimson tinge
had wrapped her face in gloom and shame.
Then she paused and put her hands to her eyes
to hide the quick-coming tears. ' Why should

one be ashamed V she said. ' I was not ashamed
before. It was I who insisted before ; for I was

quite sure  quite sure And now what am I

to think 1 for he has given me up, Susie, he has
given me up !'

Susie kept her head bent over her work.

Because,' she said, ' of something he has found
out V

Because of  yes  eyes. Read it, if you like 
anyone may read it. Because he thought his
father was dead and he finds out now that he is
alive ; but what is his father to me ? No father
can make a slave of Jack, for he is a man.
What have I do with his father, Susie V

Susie's work served her no longer as a shield.
It dropped from her hands : she was very pale,,
everything swam before her eyes.

Oh, what is it  what is it  what is it T cried
Elle, clapping her hands together with a frenzy
of eagerness and anxiety and curiosity, which
resounded through the silence of the house.

CHAPTER XII.

JOHN'S LETTER.

The letter which had been received that morning,
and had thrown the rectory into the deepest
dismay ran thus :

Dearest Elle,

After all that we have said and
hoped, I am obliged to come to a pause. What
I have to tell you had better be said in a very
few words. I have always believed that my
father was dead, that he died when I was a
child. 1 have suddenly foimd that he is alive.
His existence makes an end at once of all the
hopes that were as my life. I must give you up,
first of all, because you are more precious than
everything else. Whatever may happen to me ;
whatever I do ; whether I succeed, as is very

little likely, or fail, which is almost sure now,
I never can have any standing-ground on which
to claim you. I must give you up. This revolution
in my life has been very sudden, and I dare
not delay telling you of it  for nothing can
over bridge over the chasm thus made. I will
explain why this is, if you wish it, or if anyone
wishes it : but I would rather not do it, for it
is very, very painful. All is pain and misery 
I think there is nothing else left in the world.
Elle, I aren't say a word to you to rouse your
pity. I ought not to try to make you sorry forme.
I ought to do nothing more than say God
bless you. I never was worthy to stand beside
you, to entertain such a wild dream as that you
might be mine. I can never forget, but I hope
that you may forget, all except our childhood,
which cannot harm.

'J. M. s;

'Now what,' said Elle, facing them both
defiantly, ' what does that mean V

Susie had read it too, at last, though at first
she had refused to read it. Did she not know
in a moment what it meant? For her there

could be no doubt. Since she had gi-own a
woman ; since she had learned how things go
in this world, and how difficult it is to conceal
anything, there had always been a dread in Susie's
mind of what would happen when John foimd
out. This had only come over her by moments,
but now, in the shock of the discovery, she
believed that she had always thought so, and
always trembled for this contingency. She said
to herself now that she had always known it
would happen, which was going further still 
always known  always dreaded  and now it
had come. She did not need to read the
letter, but she had done so at last, overwhelmed
by anxiety and fear. She gave it
back to Elle without a word. Of com-se she
had known what it must be. Of course, from
the first moment, she had known.

Susie,' Elle said again, ' tell me, what does
it mean V

You know him well enough,' Susie said, falteringly
; 'you know he would not say what
was not true.'

But if this is true,' said Elle, ' then he has said
before what was not true. What can it be to me

that his father is hviug? I do not mind  his
father is nothing to me. I don't want to hurt
you, Susie, but if his father swept the streets, if
he  oh, I don't want to hurt you !'

You don't hurt me,' said Susie, with the smile
of a martyr. ' Oh, Miss Spencer, let us leave it
alone. You see what he says. He will explain,
if you insist, but he would rather not explain.
Don't you trust him enough for that V

Trust him !' said Elle. ' I trust him so much
that, if he sent me word to go to him and marry
him tomorrow, I would do it. I trust him so
that I don't believe it, oh, not a word,' the girl
cried. And then she threw herself upon Susie,
clasping her wrists as she tried, trembling, to
resume her work. ' Oh, tell me, what does he
mean  what does he mean ? What can his
father be to me V

Elle,' said Mr. Cattley, ' don't you see how
hard you are upon her ? Take what Jack says,.
or let him explain for himself. I will go to him
and get his explanation, if you wish  but why
torture her

Elle shot a vivid glance from the curate to
Susie, who sat with her head bent over her

work, her needle stumbling wildly in her trembling
hands.

You think a gi-eat deal of sparing her, Mr.
Cattley. Aunt Mary says '

Elle was in so great distress, so excited, so
crossed and thwarted, so uncertain and unhappy,
that to wound some one else was almost a relief
to her. But she stopped short before she shot
her dart.

I am sm'e she says nothing that is unkind,'
said the cm-ate, firmly ; but his very firmness
betrayed the sense of a doubt. Mrs. Egerton
had been his idol all this time, and was he
going to desert her? Could she by any possibility
think that he was desei-ting her ? His ovm
mind was too much confused and troubled on
his own account to be clear.

hJusie kept on working as if for life and death,
not meeting the gul's look, tacitly resisting the
clasp of her hands, grateful when Mr. Cattley
distracted Elle's attention and relieved herself
from that urgent appeal, yet scarcely conscious
whence the relief came or what they were saying
to each other to make that pause. Her
needle flew along wildly all the time, piercing

her fingers more often than the two edges
which she was sewing together: and in her
mind such a tumult and conflict, half physical
from the flutter of her heart beating in her ears,
making a whirr of sound through which the
voices came vaguely, carrying no meaning.
EUy's appeal to her, though so urgent, was but
secondary. The thing that had happened, and
all the questions involved in it : how he had
come to light again, that poor father whom
8usie had been brought up to fear, yet whom
she could not help loving in a way ; how John
had found out the family tragedy; what it
would be to her mother to be brought face to
face with it again, and to know that he knew
it, whom it had been the object of her life to
keep in ignorance. To think that all this had
happened, and nobody had told her ; that she
had not known a word of it till now, when that
intimation was accompanied by this impassioned
appeal for explanation. Explanation !
how could Susie explain? The very suggestion
that another mode of treatment was possible
from that which her mother had adopted,
and that, instead of concealing it at any risk.

John was setting it up between him and those
he loved most, identifying himself vrith it, even
offering explanation if necessary, was appalling
Susie.

It was only when she had a moment of
silence to consider, that it all came upon her.
She did not know what they were saying, or
desire to hear. She felt by instinct that some
other subject had been momentarily introduced,
and was gi-hateful for the moment's relief to
think. But how could she think in the shock
of this unexpected revelation, and with all that
noise and singing in her ears? She came ta
herself a little when the voices ceased, and she
became aware that they were looking at her,
and wondering why she did not say anything 
which was g'i'ing up her own cause as much as
if she confined the tnith. She looked up with
eyes that were chi and dazed, but tried to
smile.

1 cannot tell you what John means,' she
said ; ' how could I, when I don't know what
he means ? He has  very high notions : and
he thinks  nothing good enough for you. We
have no  pretensions  as a family.'

Susie tried very hard to smile and look as if
John were only very scrupulous, humble-minded,
feeling himself not Elle's equal in point of birth.

We've gone over all that,' cried Elle, with
-an impatient wave of her hand. 'And what
does it matter  to anybody, now-a-days ? It is
all exploded ; it is all antiquated. Nobody
thinks of such a thing now. And Jack knows
well enough. Besides, it is ridiculous,' cried
the girl ; ' he is  well, if you must have it, he is
conceited, he is proud of himself, he is no more
humble about it than if he were a king. Do
you think I'm a fool not to know his faults ?
I've known them all my life. I like his faults !'
Elle said.

And then there was again a pause. Nobody
spoke. It became very apparent to both these
anxious questioners  to Elle, when the fumes
of her own eager speech died away, and to Mr.
Cattley, who was calmer  that Susie did not
wish to make any reply, that she knew something
of which this was the natural consequence,
something which she was determined not to tell,
something which was serious enough to justify
John's letter, which showed that it was no fantastic

notion on his part, but a reality. Susie herself
was dimly aware, even though she had her eyes
on her work as before, that they were looking
at her with keen examination, and also in her
mind that they were coming to this inevitable
conclusion : but what could she do ?

Every family,' she said, faltering, ' has its
little secrets, or at least something it keeps to
itself. I don't know that there is more with us

than with other people ' But her voice

would not keep steady.  The only thing,* she
went on, shapely, feeling a resource in a little
anger, ' is that people generally  keep these
things to themselves ;  but John, it seems that

John ' And here she came to a dead stop

and said no more.

Elle had grown graver and graver while
Susie spoke. Her excitement and impatience to
know, fell still, as a Hvely breeze will sometimes
do in a moment. Her eyes, which Susie could
not meet, seemed to read the very outHne of
the drooping figure, the bent head, the nervous
stumbling hands so busy with work which they
were incapable of doing. Elle's face settled
into something very serious. She flung her

head back with the air of one taking a definite
resolution.

In that case,' she said, Hungering a little over
the words in case they might call forth an answer,
' in that case, I think I had better go

Mr. Cattley, much perplexed, went with her
to the door. He went np the street with her,
his face very grave too, almost solemn.

Don't do anything rash, Elle,' he said. ' We
know Jack. I  I can't think he is to blame.'

To blame !' Elle said, with her head high, as
if the suggestion were an insult. Then she
added, after a moment, ' Yes, he's to blame, as
everybody is that makes a mystery. Whatever
it is, he might have known that he could trust
me ; that is the only way in which he can be
to blame.'

Susie had thrown away her work in the ease
of being alone. It was an ease to her, and the
only solace possible. She put her arms on the
table and her face upon them, and found the
relief which women get in tears. It is buta
poor relief ; yet it gives a sort of refreshment.
Her burning and scorched eyelids were softened
and the sense of scrutiny removed, and freedom

to look and cry as she would, was good.
But the thronging thoughts that had been kept
in check by that need of keeping a steady front
to the world, which is at once an appalling
necessity and a support to women, came now
with a wilder rush and took possession altogether
of her being. How was it that he had
appeared again, that spectre whom she had
feared since she was a child, yet for whom by
moments nature had cried out in her heaii;.
Papa ! She, like John, only knew the child's
name for him, only remembered him as smiling
and kind ; though she had learned, as John
never had learned, that other aspect of him
which appeared through her mother's eyes.
Susie knew something, embittered by the feeling
of the woman who had gone through it all,
of the long and hopeless struggle that had filled
all her own childhood, and of which she had
been vaguely conscious  the struggle between
a woman of severe virtue, and an uprightness
almost rigid, and a man who had no moral
fibre, yet so many engaging qualities, so much
good humors ease of mind, and power of
adapting himself, that most people liked him,
VOL. III.

though no one approved of him : the kid of
father whom little children adore, but whom his
sons and daughters, as they grow up, sometimes
get to loathe in his incapacity for anything
serious, for any self-restraint or self-respect.


His wife had been the last woman in the
world to strive with such a nature, and perhaps
the horror that had grown in her, and which
she had instilled unconsciously into Susie's mind,
was embittered by this knowledge. Susie knew
all the terrible story. How the woman had
toiled to keep him right, to convince him of the
necessity of keeping light, to persuade him
that there was a difference between right and
wrong : and she knew that this always hopeless
struggle had ended in the misery and horror of
the shame which her proud mother had to bear,
yet would not bear. All this came back to her
as she lay with her head bowed upon her arms
in the abandonment of a misery which no
stranger's eye could spy upon. And he had
come back ? and how was mother to bear it ?
And how had John found it out 1 And why

did he not hide in his own heai-t, as they
had done, this dreadful, miserable secret ?
She, a girl, had known it and kept it a secret,
even from her oti thoughts, for foi-teen years.
Day and night she had prayed for the unfortunate
in prison, but never by look or word
betrayed the thing which had changed her life
at twelve years old, and sundered her from
others of her age, more or less completely ever
since. It had separated her so completely that
till now Susie had never Heed in entirely natural
easy relations with other girls, or With men of her
own age. There had always been a great gulf
fixed between her and youthful friendship, between
her and love. This had been somehow
bridged over here in this innocent place  and
now ! Oh, how would mother bear it ? Oh,
how had John found it out ?

She was in the midst of these confused yet
too distinct and cei-tain trains of recollections
and questions, when her solitude and ease of
self-abandonment were suddenly disturbed. She
had not heard any step, any token of another's
presence until she suddenly felt a Hght touch



upon her bowed head, and on her arm. Susie
had given herself up too completely to her own
thoughts to be capable of considering the plight
in which she was. She started and looked up,
her face all wet with her weeping. She thought,
she knew not what  that it was he perhaps,
the teiTor of the family, though she remembered
nothing of him but kindness ; or John, it might
be John, come to fetch her, to claim her help in
these renewed and overwhelming troubles. She
started up in haste, raising to the new-comer
her tell-tale face. But it was not John, nor her
father. It was Mr. Cattley who was standing
close by her with his hand touching her arm.
He had touched her head before, as she lay
bowed down and overwhelmed. His eyes were
fixed upon her, waiting till she should look at
him, full of pity and tenderness.

Oh, Mr. Cattley !' she cried, in the extremity
of her surprise. He only replied by patting
softly the arm on which his hand lay.

Tell me,' he said, ' what is wrong. Tell me
what is wrong. The secret, if it is a secret,
will be safe with me : but you cannot bear this
pressure ; you must have some relief to your

mind. Susie  I will call you what Elle calls
you for once  do you know what I was going
to say to you when she came V

Susie raised her tear-stained face to his with
a little sm-prise, and said no.

So much the worse for my chances,' he said,
with a faint smile. ' You might have divined,
perhaps ; yet why should you ? I was going to
tell you a gi-eat many things I \-ill not say

now  to explain ' Something like a blush

came upon his middle-aged countenance. ' This
is not the time for that. I was going to ask
you if you would many me. There : that is
all. You see by this that I am ready to keep
all yom secrets, and help you and sei'\e you
every way I can. It is only for this reason that
I tel you now. Will you take the good of me,
Susie, without troubling yourself \T.th the
thought of anything I may ask in return?
There, now! Poor child, you are worn out.
Tell me what it is.'

Oh, Mr. Cattley,' she cried, and could say no
more.

'Never mind Mr. Cattley: tell me what
troubles you  that is the first thing to think

of. I guess as much as that it is something
which poor Jack has found out, but which you
knew. I will go further, and tell you what I
guessed long ago  that this poor father has
done something in which there was trouble and
shame.'

He had seated himself by her and taken her
hand, holding it firmly between his, and looking
into her face. Susie felt, as many have
felt before her, that here all at once was a
stranger to whom she could say what she could
not have said to the most familiar friend.

We hoped,' she said, in a low voice  ' we
thought  that nobody knew.'
'Not John r

Oh, John last of all ; that was why he lived
here ; that was why we left him, mother and I,
and never came, and let him think that he was
nothing to us. He thought we had no love for
him. He said to mother once that she was not
his mother. Ah !' cried Susie, with a low cry
of pain at that recollection, ' all that he might
never know.'

And now he has found out : how do you
think he can have foimd outs

Susie shook her head.

The time was up ; we knew that, and we
were frightened, mother and I, though there
seemed no reason for fear, for we had left no
sign to find us by. Oh, I am afraid  I was
always afraid  that to do that was unkind. He
was papa after all ; he had a right to know, at
least; but mother could not forget all the
dangers, all that she had gone through.'

*I suppose, then,' said Mr. Cattley, with a
Kttle pressure of her hand, ' his name was not
your name?'

Susie looked at him vith something Hke
terror. Her voice sank to the lowest audible
tone.

His name  om real name  Ls May.'

The cm-ate had great command of himself,
and was on his guard ; nevertheless she felt a
thrill in the hand that held hers : Susie sensitive,
and prepared to suffer, as are the unfortunate,
attempted to di-aw hers away  but he held it
fast ; and when he spoke, which was not for a
minute, he said, with a movement of his head,

I think I remember now.'

The gi-ave look, the assenting nod, the tone

were all too much for her excited nerves. She
drew her hand out of his violently.

Then if you remember cried Susie, ' you
know that it was disgi-ace no one could shake
off. You know it was shame to bow us to the
dust ; that we never could hold up our heads,
nor take our place with honest people, nor befriends,
nor love, nor marry, with such a weight
upon us as that ; and now you know why John,
poor John, oh, poor John !'

She hurried away from the table where the
curate sat, regarding her mali that compassionate
look, and threw herself into her grandfather's
chair which stood dutifully by the side
of the blank fireplace where Elle and John had
placed it. Her simple open countenance, which
had hid that secret beneath all the natural candour
and truth of a character which was serene
as the day, was flushed with trouble and misery.
Life seemed to have revealed its sweeter mysteries
to Susie only to show her how far apart
she must keep herself from honest people, as she
said. And her heart cried out  almost for the
first time on its own account. Her thoughts had
chimed in with her mother's miseries, but had

not felt them, save sympathetically ; now her
own time had come  and John's  John's, who
knew nothing, who must have discovered everything
at one stroke ; he who was not humble,
nor diffident, but so certain of himself and all
that he could do. What did it matter for anybody
in comparison with John i

Mr. Cattley did not disturb her for some time.
He let that passion wear itself out. Then he
went and stood Tvith his back to the fireplace,
as Englishmen use, though it was empty.

And now,' he said, * that we understand, let
us lay oui' heads together and think what can
be done.'

There is nothing to be done,' said Susie.
Oh, Mr. Cattley, go away, don't pity me. I
can't bear it. There is only one thing for me todo,
and that is to go home to mother and John.'

1 do not pity you,' he said, ' far from that.
You have got the same work as the angels
have. Why should I pity you ? It hm-ts them
too, perhaps, if they are as fair spirits as we
think. But I am going \'ith you, Susie : for
two, even when the second is not good for
much, are better than one.'

She clasped her hands and looked up at him
with a gaze of entreaty.

Don't,' she cried, * don't mix yourself up
with us ! Oh, go away to the people who are
fond of you, to the people who are your equals.
What has a clergyman to do with a man who
has been in prison ? Oh, never mind me, Mr.
Cattley. I am going to my own belongings.
We must all put up with it together the best
way we can.'

Susie,' he said, softly, * you are losing time.
Don't you know there is an evening train V

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DARKNESS THAT COULD BE FELT.

John rose late next morning to a changed
world. It no longer seemed to be of any importance
what he did. For the first time in his
life he got up in the forenoon and breakfasted
as late as if he had been a fashionable young
man with nothing to do. He was not fashionable
indeed, but there was no longer any occupation
that claimed him. He had nothing todo.
He flung himself on his sofa, after the
breakfast, which he had no heai-t to touch, had
been taken away. What did it matter what he
did now ? He had not slept till mouthing. He
was fagged and jaded, as if he had been travelling
aU night. Travelling aU night ! that was
nothing, not worth a thought. How often had

ke stepped out of a train, and, after his bath and
his breakfast, rushed off to the office with his
report of what he had been doing, as fresh as if
he had passed the night in the most comfortable
of beds ! that was nothing. Very, very different
was it to He all night tossing, with a fever swarm
of intolerable thoughts going through and
through your head, and to rise up to feel yourself
without employment or vocation, to see the
world indifferently swinging on without you,
when you yourself perhaps had thought that
some one train of things, at least, would come to
a dead stand without you. But there was no
stoppage visible anywhere. It was he who had
stopped like a watch that has run down, but
everything else went on as before.

He had written his letter to EUy on the previous
night. Thus everything was crammed
into one day  his bad reception at the office, his
discovery of the man who had thus injured him,
who had injured him so much more sorely by
the mere fact of existing ; and the conclusion of
his early romance and love-dream. He had not
sent the letter yet. He had kept it open to read
it in the morning, to see whether anything

should be added or taken away. So may
words rose to his Hps which appealed involuntarily
to EUv's love, to her sympathy and he
did not want to do that. He wanted to be
quite imperative about it, as a thing on which
there could be no second word to say. Elle
could not call a convict father. She must
never even know of the man who was
John's destroyer, though he was at the same
time John's father. He shuddered at the words
notwithstanding that a great melting and softening
was in his heart towards the strange, loosely-knitted
intelligence which seemed to drift
through everything  life, and morality, and
natural affection  without feeling any one influence
stronger than the other, or any moral
necessity, either logical or practical. To lee
brought thus in all the absolutism of youth, and
in all the rigid rightness of young respectability,
face to face with a man to whom nothing was
absolute, and the most fundamental principles
were matters of argument and opinion, gave
such a shock to John's being as it is impossible
to estimate. It seemed to cut him adrift from
everything that kept him to his place. Had the

discovery been uncomplicated by anything at
the office, John might have felt it differently. It
would, in any way, have taken the heart out of
him, but it would not, perhaps, have interfered
with his work. But now everything was gone.
He flung himself down on the sofa, and lay
like a man dead or disabled ; like a man, he said
to himself, who had been drunk overnight, who
had come out of dissipation and vice with eyes
that sickened at the light of day. And this
was John Sandford, who never in his life before,
having unbroken health and an energetic disposition
and boundless determination to get on,
had spent a morning in this way. He almost
believed, as he threw himself down on the sofa
and turned his eyes from the light, that he
actually had been drunk (using the coarsest
word, as if it had been of one of the navvies
he was thinking) overnight.

And yet his heart was soft to the cause of it
all. A feeling which had never been awakened
in him, even when she was most Ind, by his
mother, which seemed out of the question sofar
as she was concerned, stole in with a softening
influence indescribable, along with the

image of that disgi-aced and degraded man, insensible
as he seemed to his ovm (hsgi-ace.
That easy smile of cheerful vagabondage was
the only thing that threw a Kttle light upon the
unbroken gloom. It had amused John in the
vagi-ant soul which he had taken under his
wing ; it was awful and intolerable to him in his
father : yet unconsciously it shed a sort of faint
light upon the future, from which all guidance
seemed removed. What was he to do in that
changed and temple future, that new world in
which there was no longer any one of all the
hopes that had cheered him ? Elle was gone,
as far as the poles apart from him and his ways,
and so were his ambitions, his schemes. There
remained to him in all the world nothing lout
his mother and sister, who had deceived him,
and whom he could now serve best by going
away out of then* ken for ever : and this poor
criminal, abandoned by all  the convict who
had no friend but Joe, who had wi-longed and
cheated John, and brought him to the dust, but
who yet was the only living creature that belonged
to him and had need of him now.

He was roused from his first languor ot

despair (though that was a condition which
could not have lasted long in any circumstances)
by the entrance of the little maid to
lay the table for another meal. Another meal !
Was this henceforward to be the only way in
which his days should be measured ? But no,
he said to himself, jumping up with a sort of
fury from his sofa, that could not be, for there
would soon be nothing to get the meals with in
that case : at which thought he laughed to himself.
Laughing or crying what did it matter,
the one was as horrible as the other.

Missis said as she thought perhaps you
would be wishing your dinner at 'one to-day,*
said the maid, startled by his laugh.

Oh, it doesn't matter,' said John ; but, when
the food came with its savoury smell, he found
out, poor fellow, that he was hungry, very
hungry, having eaten nothing for  he did not
recollect how long, weeks it seemed to him, since
that peaceful breakfast before anything had
gone wrong. At twenty-one a young man's
appetite cannot be quenched by anything that
may happen. He ate, he felt enormously,
eagerly, and afterwards he was a little better.

When that was over he drew himself together,
and his thoughts began to shape themselves
into a more definite foiTQ.

In his profession, young as he was, he had
already seen something of emigration, and had
contemplated it more familiarly than is usually
the case. He had been in America. He knew
a little of the works that were going on in
various distant regions, and he had that confidence
which belongs to a skilled workman in
every class, that he must find employment
wherever he went. Anyhow, wherever he might
decide to go, the world would be a different
world for him. He would be cut ofi" from
everything with which he was acquainted or
which was dear to him, as much in London as
at the Antipodes. Therefore, the wiser thing
was to go to the Antipodes, and make life outside
at once as strange as the life within.

It would, perhaps, ease the horrible annihilation
of every hope if everything external were
changed, and he could imagine that it was
Australia or New Zealand, and not some awful
fate that had done it. And now henceforth he
would have one companion  one poor company

VOL. III. P

ion from whom lie could never cut himself free
liis father ! who would have to stand to him
in place of a family, in place of Elle, over
whom he would have to watch, whom he must
never suffer to steal from his side, whom perhaps
he might guide into some little tranquil
haven, some corner of subdued and self-denying
life where he might wear out in safety. But,
alas ! John recoiled with a thrill of natural
horror, first at the circumstances, then at himself,
for building upon that. His father was not old
as fathers ought to be. He was not more than
fifty, and, though this is old age to persons of
twenty-one, the young man could not so far
deceive himself as to see any signs of failing
strength or life drawing towards its close in the
man whom the austerity of prison life had preserved
and purified, and whose eye danced with
youthful elasticity still. He was not like an
old father of seventy or eighty, the conventional
father whom fiction allots to heroes and heroines,
and who is likely to die satisfactorily at the end,
at least, of a few years' tenderness. No. May
would live, it might be, as long as his son. This
was an element of despair which it was impossible

to strive against, and equally impossible to
confess ; even to his own heart John would not
confess it. It lay heathy in the depths of that
heart, a profound burden, like a stone at the
bottom of a well.

Yes,' he said to himself, with a little forlorn
attempt to rouse up and cheer himself on, ' to
the Antipodes !' where perhaps there might be
something to do, of as much importance, or more,
than draining the Thames Valley : where the
primitive steps of cessation had yet to be made,
and he might be of use at least to somebody.
That was one thing to the good at least, to have
decided so much as that. And then he seized
his hat and went out. There was still one preliminary
more important than any other, and
that was to find the cause of all this ruin, the
future object of his life. Everything else must
go ; his scheme  he had thrown down all his
papers on the office-table, and left them therefor
what was the good of them now ? his love ?
He took up finally the letter to Elle, and with
his teeth set dropped it into the box at the first
post-office he came to. Having done this he
stood all denuded, naked, as it were, before fate,

pand

went forth to seek him who was the cause of
it all  his father the convict; the man whom
it would be his duty to serve and care for, who
was all that was left to him in life.

Perhaps, if it had not been for this failure in
respect to his work, for the betrayal of which he
had been the victim, and the prompt discovery
and consequent abandonment of him by his employers
which had followed, John would not
have been so certain of his duty. He never could
have taken his mother's advice and altogether
forsaken the father whom he had so unfortunately
discovered. But he might have been induced
to conceal May's existence, and to make some
compromise between abandoning him altogether
and burdening his life with the perpetual charge
of him, as he now intended. The conjunction
of circumstances, however, had narrowed the
path which lay before him. Never, in any case,
could he have kept EUy to the tie, which as yet
was no tie, when he discovered the disgrace
which overshadowed his family ; and vith both
his great motives withdrawn  this love and his
ambition  what did there remain for John ? To
enter with his reputation as a social traitor the

service of Spender & Diggs ? As soon would
a soldier in the field desert to the enemy. And
what, then, remained for him to do ? Australia,
where there was a fresh field, and where not
only he but the poor burden on his life, the soiled
and shamed criminal, would be unknown, and
might begin again.

The first thing, however, was to find him ; but
John had not much doubt on that point. After
a Httle pause of consideration he set out for
Montressor's lodgings, feeling convinced that the
actor would at least know where he was to be
foimd. The Montressors, notwithstanding then*
retm-n to fortune through the success of Echo,
were still in the old rooms in one of the streets
ofi" the Strand, up three pain's of stay's, the same
place in which John had supped upon hot
sausages on his first night in London. How
strange it was that an incident so trial should
have altered the colour of his whole life I For
had he not, in his boyish folly, called himself"
John May to that chance friend, it might so have
been that this discovery never would have been
made. It was with a sigh that John remembered,
shaking his head as he went up the long dingy

stairs, that after all this had nothing to do within
and that it was something more uncalled-for still,,
an accident without apparently any meaning in
it, which had brought him directly in contact
with his father, on the first night on which that
contact was possible. The very first night ! He
had to break off nth a sort of satirical smile at
tins accidental doom, when the door was opened
by Mrs. Montressor, who looked at him with a
startled expression, and not the welcoming look
nth which on his rare visits she had always met
him.

Oh, Mr. May !' she said ; then paused and
added, hurriedly, ' Montressor is out, and I am
just going to fetch Edie from the rehearsal. I
am so sorry I cannot ask you to come in.' He
thought she stood against the door defending it,
and keeping him at arm's length.

It does not matter,' he said. ' I had  no
time to come in. I wanted to find out from
Montressor the address  of a friend.'

What friend V said the woman, quickly.

He must have told you, Mrs. Montressor, of"
the discovery we made : that his friend May 

was  my father : no more than that : though it
had been kept from me and I didn't know.'

Oh, no, Mr. Sandford,' cried Mrs. Montressor,
'that was a mistake, I am sm*e. You see I
know yom real name. I found it out long ago,
but I never told Montressor. No, no, Mr. Sandford,
it is all a mistake. He is no relation of
yours.'

A sudden gleam of hope lit up John's mind,
but faded instantly.

He is my father,' he said, ' there can be no
mistake.'

Oh, no, no,' said the woman, beginning to
cry. * It can't be, it shan't be ; there is none of
that man's blood in you.'

Hush,' said John, * he is my father. Tell me
where I can find him ; that is the best you can
do for me, Mrs. Montressor.'

I can't, then,' she said, * I don't know. I will
tell you frankly he has been here, but I would
not have him ; I know him of old : and where he
is now I don't know.'

But Montressor knows.'

Very likely he does. I can't tell you. He

is out. I don't know Avhere he has gone. I'll
give yon no information, Mr. Sandford, there !
If he has the heart of a mouse in him, he will
never let you know.'

And what sort of a heart should I have if I
let him elude nef said John. *No, if you
would stand my friend, you must find him out
for me. 1 am going abroad. I am leaving
England  for good.'

Is it for good f said Mrs. Month ensor. < Oh,
I'm afraid it's for bad, my poor boy.'

I hope not,' said John, steadily, ' at all events
it's all the good that is left me. And I cannot
go without him. Tell Montressor, for God's
sake, if he wants to stand my friend, to bring
my father to me, or send me his address.'

It took him some time to convince her, but
he succeeded, or seemed to succeed, at last.
And he went away, not at all sure that the
object of his search was not shut up behind the
door which Mrs. Montressor guarded so carefully.
He resumed his thoughts where he had
dropped them, as he went down again the same
dark and dingy stairs ; they seemed to wait for
him just at the point at which he had left off.

The very first hight I he almost laughed when
he thought of it : and then he began to account
to himself for that meeting, following up the
course of events to the time of his first acquaintance
with Joe. He went back upon this carelessly
enough, remembering the man in the
foundry at Liverpool, and before that, before

that John started so violently that he

sipped down half-a-dozen steps at the bottom of
the stay's, and a sort of stupor seized his brain
till he got into the open au' and walked it off.

There came before him like a picture the
evening walk with Mr. Cattley, the tumult outside
the ' Green Man,' the half-drunken tramp
who wanted some woman of the name of May.
Good God ! was he so near the discovery then,
and yet had no notion of it I He remembered
the very attitude of the man sitting with his
back against the wall, maundeiiog on in his
hoarse tones, half-diimk, muddled yet obstinate,
about his mate's wife and the news he was
biting. Could it be his mother  Ms mother !
the fellow was seeking all the time : and had he
got thus closely on the scent from some vague
information about the change of habitation

made by his grandparents? How strange all
seemed, how impossible, and yet how natural !
And to think of the boy going gravely by, disgusted
yet half-amused, with his lantern, looking
down from such immense heights of boyish
immaculateness upon the wretched, degraded
creature who played the helot's part before him,
and called forth his boyish abstract protest against
the cruelty of the classic moralists who thus
essayed to teach their children by the degradation
of others. It all came before him, every
step of the road, the aspect of everything, every
word almost that had passed between Mr.
Cattley and himself". And all this time it was
himself whom Joe was seeing, and at last 
at last  his message had come home ! He
seemed to be gazing at the village street,
and that first act of the tragedy played upon it,
with a smile to himself at the strange, amazing,
incredible, yet still and always so natural  oh,
so natural  sequence of events  when all of a
sudden his heart seemed to turn that other corner
under the trees, and, with a rush of misery,
it came back to him that Elle, Elle, was and
could be his Elle no more.

He never knew very well how it was that he
spent the rest of this long afternoon and evening.
He walked about, looking vaguely for
some trace of his father, or Montressor, or Joe,
but saw nothing of them, as may be supposed ;
and then he went from shop to shop of the outsiders,
where emigrants are provided with all
they want on their voyage : and finally went
back to his rooms, and, in the blank of his
misery, went to bed, not knowing what to do.

And thus, in the changed world, in the darkened
life, the evening and the morning made
the first day.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE VALLEY OP HUMILIATION.

Another followed ; and then another morning
after that.

Night and day were much the same to John
in this dreadful pause of existence. Sometimes
he dozed in the day, in utter weariness and
sickness of heart, after coming in from an unsuccessful
search for some trace of any one of
those three men who had so changed the course
of his life ; often lay awake through the slow
and terrible night, in which all manner of miserable
thoughts came crowding about him like
vultures, so that he did not know which was
most insupportable, the night or the day. The
wondering looks of the people in the house, the
shaking of the head of his landlady, Mrs. Short,

who saw all her fears realised, and made no
doubt whatever that John had been tempted,
and had fallen, and had been dismissed by his
employers with oblique, did not affect him, for
he was unconscious of them. He sought no
comfort from his mother, who was the only confidant
he could have had  indeed, he sought comfort
nowhere. He did not recognise the possibility
of any succour existing for him at all.

Again he had slept late on the morning of the
third day. By that means he seemed to cheat
time of one little bit of its tedious, soul-consuming
power. The day was a little less long
when he thus managed to steal an hour
from it, and this habit, which the troubled and
sorrowful share with the idle and dissipated,
easily steals upon those who are unemployed
and unhappy. He felt that he hated the light,
as so many have done before him. To turn his
face to the wall, to close his eyes upon it, to
push as far from him as possible the new day,
in which there could be nothing but evil, was
a little gain in the dearth of all comfort. John
was roused with a start by some one knocking
at his door, to bid him make haste and come-downstairs,

where two ladies were waiting for
him.

Missis wants to know if she's to send up
breakfast for them V the serving maiden inquired.

John, in his consternation, did not answer the
question. Two ladies ! After a while, he said
to himself, while he completed his dressing
hastily, that no doubt his mother had sent for
Susie, and that together they had come to plead
with him to abandon the unfortunate, to keep
everything secret. John smiled at himself in
his glass at the thought. Abandon him ! The
poor culprit, the convict, the deserted father
had been more magnanimous than they were,
and had fled from him not to shame him. So
much the less could his son abandon him. He
prepared himself to tell them his resolution ashe
finished his dressing. Susie would cry, perhaps,
but neither of them would care much:
why should they care ? He had never entered
actively into their lives. It would be nothing
to them to lose him. They might, indeed, have
been proud of him, had he come to be, as he
believed he should so short a time ago, a successful
and famous engineer. But pride and

love were two different things. They might
plead as they pleased, but he w-ould not give into
them. What, preserve this hideous secret,
cheat the world into supposing them an honourable
family ? That might have been, perhaps,
had John been entering upon a successful career,
accompanied by the plaudits of the office, and
with many things depending upon him. But
now when nothing depended upon him, when he
was considered to have justified all prejudices
against him (of which now he knew the cause)
and to be himself a traitor  now that he should
shrink from doing his duty ! No, no I His
father after all was everything that belonged to
him, as he was the only thing that belonged to
his father.

He went through all this with himself as he
prepared to go downstairs. And he threw himself
into then* thoughts. He fancied how, as
they heard his step coming down, they would say
over to each other the arguments it would lee
best to use, and the mother might perhaps
suggest to Susie to be more loving than usual to
vin him. It was very likely that she would do
that. And when John opened the parlor* door

and found himself in a moment caught in someone's
aims, the first flush of consciousness in his
mind was that to the letter the programme was
being carried out.

But that flush of consciousness was very brief.
The next was different, it was rapture and
anguish mingled together. For the arms that
were flung about him, the face that was put close
to his was not his sister's but EUy's  Elle's!
Good heavens !

'Don't!' he cried, putting her away from him,
putting away her hands from this shoulders.
Don't ! for the love of God.'

Jack !' she cried, ' Jack !' and kissed him determinedly,
openly, without a blush, flinging off
those deterring hands.

Oh, Jack, my boy, what does all this mean?'
said another voice behind. Had he gone mad,
or was he still in a dream ? For this mocking
spirit seemed to speak with Mrs. Egerton's voice.
The whole world seemed to swim in his eyes fora
moment, and then things settled back into
their place, and he found himself standing in his
parlour with two ladies indeed, but the ladies
were Elle and her aunt. Mrs. Egerton was

seated in the only easy-chair in the room, the
one which May the convict had preferred, and
Elle stood all eagerness and life, like a creature
made out of light, in the full shining of the
morning sun which came in at the end window,
and which, had caught and translated itself
bodily to her hair.

John stood apart, like the shadow of this lovely
group, which was of the Hght, as he said to
himself, and could not have too much shining
upon it, while he was of the dark and could do
nothing but retire into the gloom. He turned
towards Mrs. Egerton Tvdth a trembling which
he could not disguise.

Why,' said he, ' did you come here ? Why
have you let her bring you  Why have you
brought her here V

Jack,' said Li's. Egerton, ' what does it all
mean? Do you think anyone who cared for
you as we do could be satisfied vrith. what you
said

'But you didn't much care for me,' he
said, feeling stupefied and unable to face
the real issue. She made a Httle gesture of
impatience.

VOL. III. Q

I know you have some reason to speak. I
was against you : but that's a very different thing
from this. Do you think your friends could give
you up when you were in trouble, my poor Jack 1
Oh I no ! no '

*0h no, no, no,' echoed Elle. 'Not even
papa. He said that we must come and see '

Yes,' cried Mrs. Egerton, ' my brother himself.
He said what of course anybody would say,
that to let you go off and make a martyr of yourself
for some unknown reason was out of the
question. He would have come himself, but you
know he never goes anywhere.'

'-And Mr. Cattley offered to come,' said Elle,
but we felt that we were the right people to
come. Jack.'

He stood stupefied listening to the alternation
of the voices, both so soft in their different
tones, both  in view of him, and in the ease
and everyday circumstances of his lodging, and
his appearance, which was little changed  beginning
to feel at their ease too, and as if nothing
could be so terrible as they had supposed.
It relieved their minds beyond description
to see everything in the usual order of a

place in which people were King. No man
could be in the depths of a catastrophe who
had his breakfast-table neatly set out and the
Standard folded by his plate. 'He has given
us a fright for nothing,' Elle had said. The
appearance of John indeed gave them a moment's
pause, for he was very pale, and his eyes
had a worn and troubled look which it was
impossible not to remark. But two days' illness,
or the failure of his scheme, or any other
trifling (as these ladies thought) matter, would
have sufficed to do that. As he did not say
anything, being too much confused and disturbed
and miserable and (almost) happy, to do
so, ]Mrs. Egerton went on, in her calm voice, the
voice of one who was accustomed to no infringement
of the happy ordinary com-se of
life,

Now that we are here, don't you think you
might give us some breakfast. Jack ? We have
travelled most part of the night.'

He went and gave the necessary orders dth-
out a word  which, however, was not necessary,
for Mrs. Short herself met him in the passage,
bringing up the 'things.' The sight of these

q2

visitors had at once set John right in his landlady's
mind. Mrs. Sandford, who was his
ma, was a dig-nified functionary, and worthy of
every respect, but she was still only Mrs. Sandford
of the hospital : whereas the ladies who
thus arrived with then travelling-bags in the
early morning were ladies to their finger-tips,
and had every sign of belonging to that class
of the community, more respected than any
other by the masses, which has nothing to do.
And before he could remark upon the extraordinary
position, the horror and the ridicule
of it, John found himself sitting down to table
With his cheerful guests, who were delighted to
see that there was really nothing much to
make any fuss about, and put off the explanation
till after breakfast with the greatest composure,
making themselves in the meantime very much
at home.

EUy pried about at all his treasures,
found out her own photograph in the place
from which he had not removed it, shut up in a
little velvet shrine  and opened his books, and
took out a rose-bud from among the little knot
of flowers which one of John's pensioners

brought him regularly. She gave him a
bright glance of love and sauciness, and put the
rose into her bodice. Poor John ! How happy
it Twould have made him a week ago : what
an aggravation of misery it was now : an
anguish made more poignant by this mingled
sweetness, which broke the poor fellow's heart.

They breakfasted, almost gaily, making even
John for a moment or two forget himself. And
then when the meal was over the examination
began.

Jack,' said Mrs. Egerton, ' it has been a great
comfort to see you  though you wrote in such
a solemn tone  looking fairly well upon the
whole. Tell us, what made you do so, now V

Elle sat down beside lion, leaning against his
chap'.

Yes, tell us. Jack,' she said.

She was smiling, almost laughing, at his
paleness, at his trouble, with not the faintest
notion what it was, or indeed that it could be
anything worthy, she would have said, of ' the
fright he had given them.' Her attitude, her
smile, the way in which she looked at him, so
tender, so saucy, so frank, overwhelmed poor

John. He got up hurriedly, leaving her astonished,
deserted in the place she had taken, and
confronted them both in an access of self-controlled,
yet impatient misery, with his back to
thewall.

I will tell you,' he said, hoarsely, * if you
insist upon it. I said so in my letter. It
would have been kinder to let me go away,
and take no notice. But if you insist I must
explain.'

Insist ! Explain !' said Mrs. Egerton. ' How
is it possible not to insist when you speak as you
have done. Did you expect us really to let you
break off everything and disappear without a
word T

'Mrs. Egerton,' said poor John, 'you said
there was no engagement to be allowed between
Miss Spencer and me.'

Elle got up at this amazed, and went and
stood by him, and touched his arm with her
hand. * Oh, Jack !' she said, with a reproach
which went to his heart.

'Well,' said Mrs. Egerton, 'that is true. I
said I would not hear of it ; but that is very

different from suddenly breaking it off on the
man's side, without a word.'

Oh, very, very different !' cried Elle. ' Aunt
May, he never, never could intend to use me
so;

It was all a sort of sweet trifling to Elle,
a sort of quarrel to be made up, though without
any of the harshness of a quam-el  a little
misunderstanding that could only end in one
way.

And he stood leaning up against the wall
facing them, with his sad knowledge in his
heart, knowing that it was no trifle that stood
between them, but a great gulf which neither
could cross. He stood and gazed at them fora
moment, his eyes and his heart and every
member of him thrilling with insupportable pain.

1 will tell you if you wish it,' he said. ' I
don't want to tell you, but if I must, I must. I
told you that I always believed my father to be
dead. He was nothing but a vision to me. I
remember him only as a child does. I believed
he was dead.'

*Yes,' said Mrs. Egerton, interested, but

mildly, while Elle continued to look np, smiling
into his face.

I remember, too,' she said, ' how he used to
come in and take you out of bed.'

The unfortunate young man shuddered. It
was so dreadful to think of this now, and to
think that the cause of all his trouble remembered
it too, as the one distinct thing when so
much was blank. And to see the untroubled
curiosity in their faces, so expectant of the
thunderbolt which was about to fall !

The reason he has been out of sight so long
is  that he has been in prison for forgery for
fourteen years. He came out about a month
since, and 1 found him the first night, but without
knowing who he was. He is a convict, and
has been in prison for fourteen years.'

Mrs. Egerton uttered a low cry as if somebody
had struck her. As for Elle, she did not
understand, but looked at him again with growing
wonder, as if she knew only from his face,
not from what he said.

It is easily explained, isn't it f he said, with
a strange smile ; ' not much trouble, that is
how it is. I knew nothing, no more than you

did, or I should be inexcusable. Now you have
heard it, take her away. Oh, Mrs. Egerton,
now you know  spare me, and take her away.'

Jack ! God bless you, my poor boy. Oh,
Jack, I never dreamt of this. God help you,
my poor boy.'

Yes, I hope He will : for nobody else can.
It is like that in the prayer-book  "Because
there is none other that eightieth for us." Take
her away. She can't understand. Oh, Mrs.
Egerton, for God's sake, take her away.'

'Yes, Jack; yes, 1 will; that is, I will if I
san. Elle, do you hear him? He does not
want us ; not now, not at this dreadful moment.
Oh, my poor, heart-broken boy ! Oh, God help
you, my poor Jack !'

Mrs. Egerton got up, as if she intended to go
away ; but then she stopped and held out her
hands to him, and finally drew him to her, and
gave him a kiss upon his pale cheek, bursting
out into crying as she drew him, resisting, into
her aiTQS.

Oh, my poor boy ! oh, my poor boy I how
are you to bear it V she cried.

Oh, if he could but have put his head on her

motherly bosom, and cried like a child, as even
a man may do, like one whom his mother comforted
! But John, with Elle on the other side
of him, resisted, and would not do this. He
said, hoarsely :

I can't bear it  I must bear it : only take
her away.'

'Elle  Elle! do you hear? We make it
worse for him. You and I must not make anything
worse for him. Elle, let us go away.'

It seems as if I had nothing to do with all
this,' said Elle, with trembling lips. ' Yet I
thought it was me you loved, and not anyone
else. I thought '

Oh, Elle !' Mrs. Egerton cried, weeping,
don't you see you are torturing him '? Oh, I
wish I knew what to do ! Elle, don't you see
you are breaking his heart ? Come away, and
leave him to himself. It is perhaps the kindest
thing we can do.'

Elle did not move. She did not cry, though
her lips quivered. She stood up straight by his
side, as if nothing would ever alter her position.

You may go,' she said, ' Aunt Mary. You
are not so very near a relation : but I am not

going, not a step. "What, just \-hen lie wants
me ? Just when it is some good to have someone
to stand by him. I shall not move, not a
step. I am in my proper place. Is that all you
know of Elle, Jack V

There had been a faint tapping for some time
at the door, which in the excitement and agitation
of the little company within had gone on
without notice. They were all too much absorbed
to be conscious of it, or, if conscious, to
think of it as appearing in any way to them.
To John it had been a faint additional irritation,
a something which penetrated through all
the rest like a child crying or a door swinging,
nothing that affected himself or made any call
upon him. At this point, however, the patience
of the applicant outside failed, the door was
opened softly, and first a head put in, and then
the entre person. It was Mrs. Egei-ton whc
first caught sight of this intruder. She died
her eyes homely and looked, with a hasty
attempt to recover her composure, at the wistful
but still cheerful countenance, with a smile
upon it like the smile of a child who has been
punished for some fault, but comes back propitiatory,

with looks intended to conciliate, and
a humble yet not complacent consciousness
of being good, and ready to make amends. A
child in such a frame of mind is always amiable,
and so was, to all appearance, the man Who
stepped softly in, with his hat in one hand and
a bundle of papers in the other He was
scarcely young enough for the pose, or for the
look, or the desire to please and to be forgiven,
and to make all up again, which was in every
line of his face. But to Mrs. Egerton the face
was a pleasant one, with a good, innocent expression,
which made her feel that this conciliatory
personage could not be a very gi-eat
offender. He made her a little bow when he
caught her eye, and seemed to take her into his
confidence as he stood there deprecating, smiling.
John did not perceive him till he had
come into the room, and in the same deprecating
manner closed the door behind him. Then he
made a step forward, holding out the papers in
his hand.

Here,' he said, and the ladies, watching with
sudden interest, were startled by the bound
John made at the sound of this unexpected

voice. ' Here are your papers  Mr. Sandford.'
He made a little pause before the marche. ' I
had no right, I believe, to take them away, but
at the moment it did not occur to me in that

light. I thought ah !  no, no, that is all 

nonsense. Don't think of it any more.'

For John had darted towards him, caught
him by the arm, and said ' Father I' in the midst
of the little speech he was making.

No, no,' he repeated, ' that is all nonsense.
Nothing of the sort, nothing of the sort. Here
are your papers, which is the only thing to
think of. I have brought you  your papers.
That is all. I didn't intend to disturb you in
the midst of your friends.'

He would have slid out again, or at least he
made a semblance of wishing to slide out,
though in reality his eyes were full of curiosity
respecting John's friends, who on their side
gazed at him with an almost ludicrous dismay.
This, at least, was the feeling of Mrs. Egerton,
who stood with a helpless gasp of incredulity
and amazement gazing at this criminal, this
tragical, terrible apparition of whom she
had been thinking a moment before with horror

in which no mitigating circumstance had any
part.

'I did not think,' said the culprit, with his
deprecating look, ' that you would have been at
home at this hour. I thought I would find the
room empty when I got here. I had these back
from Spender & Diggs last night. I intended
only to leave them  not to disturb you among
your friends.'

John's mouth was so dry that he could
scarcely speak. He took May by the arm and
almost forced him into a chair.

I did not seek you, he said, ' God knows.
It would be better for us if you had been dead
as I thought. But you cannot go away now on
any pretext of disowning who you are. This is
my father, Mrs. Egerton. I have told you who he
is and what he is  there's no more to say. As
for Miss as for  for Elle Oh, my God !'

He stood holding his father by the arm, but
with the other hand he covered his face. Such a
cry of anguish could find no words except in the
inevitable universal appeal which human nature
takes its final refuge in, whatever its misery
may be.

Even at this moment, however, the comic
element, which mixes with almost every tragedy,
came in when it ought least to have shown
itself. May struggled against the detaining
hold with a look of injured amiability and innocent
amazement.

I'm not used to be kept by force,' he said,
turning to the elder lady with that look of
taking her into his confidence.  He giips me
like  like a policeman. I don't Ivqow what he
wants to do with me : to expose me to ladies

who don't know me : to make you think

If I've made a mistake, why, there's your papers
again, and aU's right between us. Let me go.'

Elle stole round to the other side of the
prisoner's chap'.

Oh, sir,' she said, ' I don't know who you
are : bat you must stay if Jack wishes you to
stay. He is unhappy, do not cross him now. If
you are his father, we are your friends as well
as his.'

May's countenance changed. He looked at
her with an anxious, furtive pucker of his
eyelids.

Young lady,' he said,  who are you ? are

you  Susie f with a shade of sudden gravity on
his face.

No,' said EUy, casting at John a glance of
radiant defiance, unable even at that moment
to take his rejection seriously. ' I am  engaged
to Jack

The man who had brought such dismay and
misery with him had no lively sense of shame,
but he had occasional perceptions as keen as
they were evanescent. He looked for a moment
at the group round him and divined all it
meant. It was not easy for the quickest wit to
find a remedy.

Madam,' he said, turning to Mrs. Egerton,
this young man has been working too hard,
and he is off his head. Take care of him. Ita
common thing among inventors ; take care of
him.'

He settled himself on his chair as if he were
about to enter on a long, peaceable explanation ;
then, in a moment, with the skill which is learned
among criminals, he snatched his arm from
John's grasp and was gone. The clang of the
door as it closed behind him was almost the
first notice they had that he had escaped.

John was weakened by the sufferings of the
past days, and altogether taken by surprise.
He was thrown against the wall, and, for a
moment, stunned by the shock. Mrs. Egerton,
half disposed to think the respectable visitor was
right and the young man crazed  half alarmed
by that sudden exit, not knowing what to do 
held his hands in hers and chafed them, bidding
some one fetch a doctor, send for his mother, do
something  she knew not what.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

THE FATHER AND CHILDREN.

Mr. Cattley had quietly taken possession of
Susie and her arrangements from the moment
of the agitating conversation which followed
John's letter to Elle. It could scarcely be said
that he had intended to make a declaration of
love to her  though for some time it had been
apparent to him that this was the solution of all
the difficulties of that disruption in his life
which he had not himself done anything to bring
about, yet which was natural and necessary,
and a change which he could neither refuse nor
draw back from when it came. The sudden
rending asunder of all the bonds that had
fashioned his existence for years had been very
painful to the curate. To keep them up unnaturally,

in defiance of separation and distance,
was all but impossible, and yet to cut himself
finally adrift was an operation which he knew
not how to perform. Susie had given him unconsciously
the key to all these difficulties. Had
he remained at Edgeley, leading a somewhat
pensive and unfulfilled, yet happy life, his
devotion to Mrs. Egerton would have been in
all likelihood enough for his subdued and
moderate spirit. It was as much out of the
question that she should marry him as that the
sky and the fields should effect a union, or
any other parallel unconscionable things : but
there was little occasion for any attempt at such
an alliance, considering that the terms on which
they stood, of tenderest and most delicate
friendship, were enough for all requirements.
It is delightful to keep up such a .tie when circumstances
permit, and no more strenuous sentiment
breaks in  but to break it is a thing full of
embarrassment and difficulty. Scarcely any
woman is so unnaturally amiable as to behold
the defection of her servant and knight without
a certain annoyance ; it is difficult altogether to
forgive that self-emancipation and disenthral-

b2

ment ; and on the other hand the very delicacy
and romantic sentiment in the mind of the man
which makes such relations possible fills him
with trouble and awkwardness when the moment
comes at which more reasonable and natural
ties take the place of the Platonic bond.

Mr. Cattley had felt the crisis deeply ; he had
not known how to detach himself, or what to do
with his life when the disruption should have
been made. Susie's sudden appearance had
been an inspiration and a deliverance to him.
He had felt in her the solution of all his doubts.
And now the sudden trouble which had come
upon her, and which in his interest and long
affection for John it was so natural he should
share, came in like what he would himself have
called ' a special providence,' to make his way
more easy. That he should take her, so to
speak, into his own hands, guide her, take care
of her, aid her in everything that could be done
for the family at such a crisis, was natural,
most natural to a man of his character, most
convenient in a general crisis of affairs. That
he should step into the breach, that he should
defend and help all who were likely to suffer,

that he should manage matters for any distressed
family, and specially help John, and help
everybody, was what all the world expected
from Mr. Cattley. It was his natural office.
So that not only Susie but Susie's troubles
came With the most perfect appropiiateness
into his life, and afforded him the opportunity
of T\athdi'awing and emancipating himself on the
one hand and seeming his own happiness on
the other, as nothing else could have done.

This is not to say that the communication
Susie had made to him about her father had
been received by the curate Txnith indifference.
It had, on the conti-mary, given him a gi-eat shock.
A convict I That he should connect himself
svith such a person  he, a clergyman  a man
placed in a position where all his connections
and relationships were exposed to scrutiny 
was a thought which gave him a momentary
sensation, indescribable, of giddiness and faintness
and heart-sickness ; but the result of this
shock was an unusual one. It made him instantly
commit himself  identify himself sith
the sufferer ; take her up, so to speak, upon his
shoulders and prepare to can her through life.

and save her from all effects of this irremediable
misfortune. This was not the effect it would have
had on ordinary men ; but it was so with Mr.
Cattley. The first thing to be done seemed to
snatch up Susie, not to let it hurt her  not even
to let her feel for a moment that it could hurt
her. A convict ! He remembered the story
faintly when he heard the name, how it had
a certain interest in it, in consequence of the
character of the man, whom everybody liked,
although the forger had ruined his family, and
plunged all belonging to him into misery. And
to think now, after so many years, that he himself
was to be one of the people plunged into
trouble by this criminal of a past time ! The
shock went through his nerves and up to his
head like a sudden jar to his whole being. But
there was perhaps something in his professional
habit of finding a remedy for the troubles
brought under his eye, the quick impulse of doing
something, which becomes a second nature
with the physicians of the spirit as well as with
those of the body, which helped him now. And
then it afforded him the most extraordinary and
easy opening out of a difficult conjunction of

affair's ; that had to be taken into account  as
well as the rest.

The result was that Ii-. Cattley took Susie to
London to her mother, and at once, without anything
 or at least very little more  said, took
his place as a member of the family, threatened
With, great shame and expose through the
return of the disgraced father, whom some of
them had hoped never to see again, and some
had no knowledge of. Nobody but a clergyman
could have done this so easily, and even Mrs.
Sandford, sith all her pride and determination
to share the secret with no one, could not refuse
the aid of a cool head and sympathetic mind
in the emergency in which she found herself
placed. She was too much pre-occupied by her
great distress to have much leisure of mind to
consider this sudden new arrival critically as
Susie's suitor. At an easier moment that
question would no doubt have been discussed in
all its bearings  whether he was not too old for
Susie ; whether he was not very plain, very quiet ;
whether they had known each other long enough;
whether they suited each other : all these matters
would have afforded opportunity of discussion

and question. But in the present dreadful
emergency there was no time for any such
argument.

Susie has accepted me for her husband,' Mr.
Battle said (which, indeed, Susie had scarcely
done save tacitly), ' what can I do to help you V
There seemed nothing strange in it. It was his
profession to have secrets confided to him, to
help all sorts of people. Even Mrs. Sandford
could not resist his quiet certainty that their
affairs were his, and that he could be of use.
And he had all the strength and freshness of a
new agent, impartial, having full command of
his judgment. He had none of John's stern
and angry Quixotism and determination not to
lose hold again of the father who was a disgi-ace
to him, that fiercest development of duty 
neither did he share the horror and loathing of
the wife for the man who had betrayed and disgraced
her. He was of Mrs. Sandford's mind
that the culprit should be kept apart, that no
attempt should be made to reinstate him in the
family ; and he was of John's mind that May
could not be abandoned. He agreed and disagreed
with both, and he was sorry for all  at

once for the family driven to horror and dismay
such a sudden apparition, and for the unfortunate
criminal himself, thus cut off from all the
ties of nature.

Susie took no independent action in the matter.
She left it now to him, as she had left it
all her life to her mother, feeling such questions
beyond her, she who was so ready and so full of
active service in the practical ways of life. She
left the decision to those who were better able
to make it, but with an altogether new and
delightful confidence such as she had never
known before ; for Mr. Cattley was far more
merciful than anyone who in Susie's experience
had ever touched this painful matter. Mrs.
Sandford had desired nothing so much as never
to hear the name of the husband through whom
she had suffered so many humiliations and
miseries again ; but Mr. Cattley would not permit
the nati-al right to be shaken off, or the
claims of blood abandoned. Susie turned to
him with a gratitude which was beyond words
in her mild eyes. Her mother's panic and
loathing were cruel, but he was ever kind and
just. She looked at him with that sense that he

was the best of created beings, which it is sa
expedient for a wife to possess. Even love does
not always carry this confidence with it, but
Susie was one of the women who will always, to
the last verge of possibility, give that adoration
and submission to the man upon whom their
affections rest. And happily she had found oneby
whom, as far as that is possible to humanity,
they were fully deserved.

They set out together in the morning sunshine,
after many arguments and consultations
with Mrs. Sandford, to seek John in his lodgings
and settle if possible upon some common course
of action. But, though so many painful questions
were involved, these two people were able
to dismiss them as they walked along together.
They seemed to step into a land of gentle happiness
the moment they were alone with each
other, though in the midst of the crowded
streets. They went across the bridge making
momentary involuntary pauses to look at the
traffic on the river, forgetting that they ought
not to have had any attention to spare for such
outside matters. Though Susie was entirely
town-bred, they looked what they were henceforward

to be  a country pair, a rural couple
come up from their vicarage to see the world.
There ought not to have been so much ease,
so much sweetness in the morning to May the
convict's daughter : and yet she could not help
it, there it was. And to Mr. Cattle, who had
always been accustomed to a somewhat secondary
place, the sensation of being supreme was
strangely delightful. A woman who can give
that unquestioning admiration, that boundless
twist, is always sweet. It is not every woman
that can do it, however godlike may be the
man : and the curate did not believe that he
was godlike. But yet it was very delightful
that she should think so. It was a surprise to
him to receive this tender homage ; but it was
very sweet.

They had reached the quiet street in which
John's rooms were, when Susie was suddenly
roused out of this heavenly state by the sight of
some one coming hastily out of her brother's
door. They were still at a sufficient distance to
see that he came out half-running, as if pursued,
and that he looked round him with alarm
as he came towards them, stumbling a Httle

with uncertain steps. Something perhaps it
was in this somewhat wavering movement
which roused old recollections in her mind 
and her father, but for that temporary lapse into
personal blessedness had been very much in
the foreground of her imagination.

She let go Mr. Cattley's arm with a shock of
sudden awakening, with a cry of ' Papa !' She
recognised him in a moment. He was in reality
very little changed, far less changed than she
was, the austerity of his prison life having
preserved the freshness of early years in his
face.

'Papa,' she said, and stopped and reddened
with sudden emotion, ashamed to look at him
who she thought must stand abashed before
her, and for the first time fully apprehending
this tragedy, which no one could smooth away.

'Eh!' he cried, and gave her a hurried
look. ' I am in a great hurry. I can't speak
to you now :' then he stopped reluctantly,
for the first time realising what she had said.
No, it was not shame; he was not afraid of
meeting her eye : but a look of curiosity and
interest came into his face. ' What's that you

are calling me ? Do you knoAv me? "Who are
you? Are you ? is this Susie V he said.

Oh, yes, papa, it is Susie. Don't go away.
We were coming to look for you, to ask  don't
go away from us. You are not at all changed,'
she said, putting out her hands to detain him,
'you are just the same. Papa, oh, where are
you going ? Don't go away.'

You think so ? Not changed ! I might befor
you are changed, Susie, and so is the
world ; everything's changed. Don't stop me, 1
must go ; your brother, if that is your brother 
and if you are Susie '

'Have you seen John, papa?'

John,' he repeated, with a half smile ; and,
though he had been in such haste, he stopped
now at once with every appearance of leisure.
He may be John, but he's not Johnnie, my little
boy. He's like a pohcemau,' he went on, in a
tone of whimsical complaint, rubbing his arm
where John had grasped him ; ' he clutches in
the same way. My little chap would never
have behaved Hke that. And so you're Susie ?
I see some Likeness now. You were your
mother's pet, and the boy was mine. Ah ! well*

it comes to the same thing in the end. You're
both of you ashamed of me now.'

Oh, papa,' cried Susie, with tears, ' don't
say so ; don't think so ! John '

Yes, I know : he wants to get hold of me, to
keep me in some family dungeon where I can't
shame him. I know that's what he wants. No,
child, I'm going away. Do I want to disgrace
you ? I'll go, and you shall never hear of me
more.'

'Papa,' cried soft voiced Susie, 'come back
and let us talk all together like one family.
Come back to poor John's lodgings. We are
all one family, after all. We are all friends.
Oh, come back, come back, papa !'

He has got ladies there  the girl he is going
to marry. Never, never ! I'm not going to
have anything to do with him. I'm glad to
have seen you, Susie. God bless you, you've
got a sweet face. You're like a sister of mine
that died young. If you ever see your mother 
I suppose you see your mother sometimes ? 

you can tell her  Well, perhaps I gave her

reason to hate me and give up my name. You can

tell her she'll never be troubled any more with me.'

Oh, papa I' Susie drew a long breath and
held him firmly by the arm. ' Here is John.
You must speak to John.'

John had come hurriedly up to the other side,
having followed from his house, and now put his
hand also upon his father's arm.

1 can't let you out of my sight,' he said,
breathlessly. ' We must understand everything,
we must settle everything now.'

Oh, listen to him, papa : it's not his fault ;
let us consult together ; we are all one family.
Surely, surely we are all friends,' Susie cried.

slay stood between his children with a sullenness
unusual to it coming over his face. He
shook off John's hold pettishly.

I told you he clutched like a policeman,'
he said. 'I don't mind you, Susie, you're
natural. If I had you with me, I might perhaps
But it's no use thinking of that.

You can tell your mother that whatever happens
she shall never be troubled with me.'

Father,' said John, with a shudder at the
word, ' we none of us want to neglect our

duties. Now that you are here, you can't disappear
again. We belong to each other
whether we wish it or not. You have a claim
upon us, and we  we have a claim upon you.
Come back. Susie, get him to come back.'

A look of panic came upon May's face. He
shook them off from either hand.

Don't let us have a row in the street,' he
cried. ' You'll bring all the policemen about.
And when a man has once been in trouble they
always think it's his fault. Let me go.'

Not without telling us where to find you, at
least,' said John.

Oh, papa, papa !' said Susie. ' Don't go,
don't go.'

We'll have all the policemen in the place
about,' May said, looking round him with alarm.

Mr. Cattley had stood by all the time saying
nothing. He came forward now, and drew John
aside.

Jack, will you leave it in my hands V he
said. ' I know everything, more perhaps than
you do. And you're not in a condition to judge
calmly. You know you can trust me.'

And who may this be now V said May, in a

pettish and ofFended tone. He turned to the
new speaker with a rapid change of front :
but changed again as soon as he perceived
what the new speaker was. He had known
a great many chaplains in his time, dud
had never found them unmanageable. ' I see
you're a clergyman,' he said, in his usual
mild tones : * and you have a good countenances
he added, approvingly. * There's some
little questions to settle between me and
my family. I don't mind talking of our
affairs T\dth such a  vith such a  respectable
person. So long as no attempt is made
on my personal freedom.' He paused a
Httle, and then laughed with his usual perception
of the ludicrous. ' I'm very choice
over that,' he said, 'it's been too much tampered
with already.' He looked from one to
another as he spoke, with a faint expectation of
some smile or response to his pleasantry : some
sense of the humour of it in Susie's deprecating
anxious face or the stem misery of John. The
want of that reply chilled him for a moment, but
only for a moment. Then he stepped out briskly
from between his irresponsive children.
VOL. iir. s

Lead on  as Montressor would say  I'll follow
with my bosom bare  or at least with my
heart open  which comes to the same thing, I
suppose,' he said.

This transaction took place so rapidly that
John, in his confused state, and even Susie,
scarcely understood what was taking place till
they found themselves alone, watching the two
other figures going quickly and quietly along
the street. To Susie it seemed as if in a moment
everything had come right. Mr. Cattley carried
off her anxieties with him, to be solved in what
was sure to be the best way. She came close
to John's side and put her arm within his, supporting
him with her confidence and certainty
that all would now go well, supporting him
even physically with the soft backing-up which
he wanted so much. They stood together
silent, watching the other two disappear along
the street. How it was that John gave in so
easily, and let the matter be taken out of his
hands, no one ever knew ; the secret was that
he was worn out with misery and unrest. Body
and soul had become incapable of further exertion,
even of further suffering. The only solution

possible to bis strained nerves and strength
was this  that some cue else should do it for
bim. For be was incapable of anything more.

S2

CHAPTER XVl.

THE GREAT SCHEME.

And yet there was something for which the
poor young fellow was capable still.

While this strange meeting had gone on, a
telegraph boy  that familiar, common-place
little sprite of the streets  had made his way
to John's door ; and, unnoticed by the agitated
group, had been directed by Mrs. Short putting
out her head and shaking it sadly all the time
by Away of protest  to where John stood. This
little bit of side action had been going on for a
minute or two without anyone observing it ;
and it was not till the group had broken up and
John and his sister were standing together, incapable
of speech and almost of thought, watching
the others as they walked away, that the

telegraph boy came up and thi-iist Lis message
into John's hand. It seemed a vulgar interruption,
breaking into the tragic scene; and
John stood with the envelope in his hand, with
a sense that he was as much beyond the reach
of any communications which could reach him
in that way, as if he had come to himself in
the land beyond the grave. But Susie felt
differently ; the interruption was to her a Welcome
break.

Look at it,' she said, holding his arm close
with a woman's keen interest in a new event
It may be something of importance.'

There is nothing of any impoi-tance,' he said,
in the deadly languor of exhaustion. * Nothing
can make any difference to us now.'

-' But open it,' said Susie.

He gave her a look of reproach. What cid it
matter? If the telegram had been from the
Queen, it could have made no difference. Nothing
could alter the fact that he was his
father's son.

But open it, Susie said again.

He tore it open in a languid way, hoping
nothing, caring for nothing, in the blank of

despondency and helplessness. Even the words
within did not rouse him. He read and crumpled
it up in his hand.

What is it, John V

Nothing very much. They want me  in the
office,' he said.

hi the office ! That makes me think  Johiiy
why are you here at this time of day V

If you mean why am I not there I

haven't been there for three days. I have left
the office,' said John, in the carelessness of his
exhausted state.

she caught his arm again with an almost
shriek of dismay.

Left the office ! when it is all you have to
look to. Oh, John, John !'

What did it matter ? They were very unjust
: they made a false accusation : and then
I discovered him. I found out why they suspected
me, why I have been suspected all my
life  even by you and  my mother, Susie.'

Oh, no, John. Oh, no, no, dear John. Never,
never!' cried Susie, vehemently. 'Mother has
suffered a gi-eat deal : she can't forget : she can't

forgive even as we do. Wt do, John, don't we ?
We do, we do !'

Forgive whom ? The people that had always-doubted
me for a reason I didn't even know V

His face grew stern. He could say nothing of
the other, whom it was both easier and harder
to forgive. Susie did not dare to enter upon
that subject. She gave his arm a little pressure,
and said, softly,

Since they send for you, you will go, John ?
Oh, go I You must not throw everything away,
because '

Because  it does not matter to anybody,
least of all to me. Ill go away to America, or
somewhere, and take that poor wretch, that
high-hearted wretch '

Oh, John, he is your father.'

I know : can you say anything worse ? are
you trying what is the hardest thing you can
say?'

Oh, John !' said poor Susie, and began to cry.
Her confusion, and trouble, and anxiety, not

unmixed with a little exasperation, too, were
not to be expressed in any other way.

He relented a little at the sight of her tears.

I think there's no heart left in me,' he said.
1 make everybody that cares for me unhappy.
You, out here in the street, and there, inside 
Elle.'

*Elle!'

Susie's astonishment was so great that she
would not find another word to say.

She does not cry,' said poor John. ' She has
come to stand by us. She is braver than I am.
She's so innocent, Susie, she doesn't know. If
she knew better, if she knew the world, she
wouldn't come to me, a poor, shamed, and ruined
man, a convict's son.'

Oh, John !' There being no answer to make
to this, Susie recurred to the former subject.
He had still the telegram crushed in his hand.
That is not about ruin and shame,' she said.
John, tell me, what does it say T

< I scarcely know what it says,' he answered,
with an impatient sigh. And then suddenly, ina
moment, by some strange miracle of the nerves
and brain, he seemed to see the message glow
out in big letters of flame quivering through
the air, obliterating the shabby walls and long

lines of the pavement, throwing a strange light
upon everything  till they got inside his very
soul, and obliterated everything else that was
there. Words which were not divine, nor even
very elevated that they should have moved him
so. * Scheme very promising, your presence indispensable.'
What did that mean ? He knew
very well what it meant  that all was not (ever,
as he thought, that life and hope still remained.
What did he care about such empty, impotent
things ? But so it was. All was not over,
though he insisted within himself that it was so.
The story of May and his little boy might, after
all, be but a fairy-tale that had no sequence or
meaning. And he was John Sandford, and the
]pall was at his foot once more.

John scarcely knew how he got to the office
on that eventful morning ; but somehow, by
force or sweet persuasion, or something that
drew him in spite of himself, he went, leaving
the ladies still in his parlour, where, in the sickness
of his heart, he could not see them again.
The sight of Elle was more than he could bear.
It was easier to face the Barrettss, and anything
they could say to him, than to look at Elle in

her ignorance and certainty, in her all confident
love and courage. She to stand by him ! who
would not be permitted to soil her gentle name
and stainless record by the most distant contact
with his shame and wretchedness. Elle ! her
very name gave him a sick pang of mingled
sweetness and misery. To think she should be
ready to do all that for him  and to think that
in honour and justice he ought never to see her
again !

He found the Barrettss, father and son, awaiting
him with apparent anxiety. They both
looked up eagerly when he opened the door,
and Mr. William came forward, holding out his
hand.

Sit down, Sandford. My father and I wish
to have a little talk with you. We are all sorry
for the misunderstanding that occurred when
you were here last.'

'I don't think there was any misunderstanding.
Mr. Barrett told me that I was doing what he
always expected, Ashen I behaved like a traitor
and liar.'

It was all a mistake, Sandford. I give you

my word it was all a mistake. Father, you had
better speak for yourself.'

 I withdraw what I said, if I said that,' said
the old gentleman. ' Perhaps I have been prejudiced.
My opinion is that children are what
their parents make them : but circumstances
alter cases. And I hear from WilKam '

The fact is,' said the junior partner, laying
his hand upon the papers on the table, ' that
this is a most remarkable-scheme of yours,
Sandford.'

In whatsoever depths a man may be, to have
his work or his invention praised will make his
heart jump. Suddenly it seemed to John as if a
great cloud, which had enveloped the world,
opened and rolled aside, and out from behind it,
in all the splendour of day, appeared for a moment
the smiling blue. He thought that cloud
and darkness had been the shadow of his father ;
but that it was not this alone was evident suddenly
now  if only for a moment. He did not
say ans-thing in reply, but drew a long breath.

Spender & Diggs,' continued Mr. William
Barrett, 'Hke idiots as they are, tell Prince that

they can't make head or tale of it: that it's
mixed up with clever things and nonsense ; and
that they have sent it back.'

The man,' said John, with a stammering in
his voice which his late masters thought was due
to some sense of delinquency ; ' the man who
copied my papers, and who took them without
my knowledge, went for them yesterday and
demanded them back.'

Ah, that explains  ! Well, Sandford, most
likely we were wrong altogether. I find a great
deal that is admirable in your scheme. We see
business in it,' said Mr. William, rubbing his
hands. ' We see money in it. We see our way
to making a great thing of it ; that's the fact,
Sandford. We never meant you to take our
remonstrance as bitterly as you did, you know :
never. Things looked bad. It looked like an
ugly piece of business  it looked like '

Put it in plain words,' said John, roused to
all his old indignation, and using involuntarily
the words his navvies might have used. ' You
thought it as mean a dirty trick as ever Alas
played V

Mr. William Barrett paused a little and then

he burst into a laugh which carried off a good
deal of annoyance and something like shame.

We needn't quam-el about words,' he said,
but I never believed it in my heai-t. I looked
for some explanation from you that would clear
it up at once, for I Iniew you were not the man
to do a chrty trick. But I could get nothing out
of you, not even when I went to your rooms
that time, and found you evolved deeper and
deeper.'

When did you come to my rooms V said
John, looking at him blankly.

'Sandford,' said the younger Barrett, 'look
here, my good fellow, you're young and you
must be careful. Whatever you have been dong,
it must have been worse than an ordinary
spree.'

John stared at him for a moment-without
comprehending : and then he answered; vrith. a
kind of smile,

Yes, it was much worse than an ordinary 
spree.'

If it were not that I never knew you to do anything
of the kind before Yes, I was there;

you had two men with you, and I didn't like the

looks of them. Now, look here : I didn't understand
then, and I don't inquire now, what was
the matter ; you've always been a steady fellow
so far as we have known ; you'll have to be so
more than ever, mind you, if you go into this big
thing. The thing's so big that it will make your
fortune  with the help our experience can give
you  and if it's accepted, as I have little doubt
it will be. But you'll have to be careful. Bad
company and bad hours, and that sort of thing,
will never do for a rising man.'

John made no reply. Bad company ! yes, it
had been bad company. It was hard to sit
quietly under an imputation which Avent so
entirely against all the traditions of his life, but
it was better perhaps that they should think so
than that they or anyone should know the
truth.

The elder Mr. Barrett shook his solemn head
like a wise old sheep, with his white hair and
beard.

Depend upon it,' he said, ' without good
principles, no man ever did anything. Clever
notions are all very well, but without good
principles '

It's well to have the notions and the principle
too,' said the junior partner, interrupting
hastily. 'Here are some sittings 1 have put on
paper, Sandford. You can run your eye over
them. That's what, in case your plan should
be accepted, we would propose. You had better
think it well over and consult your friends : and
in the meantime make use of any assistance you
want in the office to put it all in right form. If
you A\ll take my advice, you will lose no time.'

John looked over the paper put into his hand
with a dimness in his eye and a throbbing in
his head, as if all the machinery that would be
wanted in the work had suddenly been set
going in his brain. It clanged, and whirred,
and rang as if all the great wheels were going
and the pistons falling, and every motive power
in action ; and then there suddenly rolled out
before him like a panorama the future life
which he had planned and hoped, the great
works in which his mind should be the directing
force, and all the industries that depended
thereupon. It was not, perhaps, what the
youthful dreamer would ordinarily think a
romantic picture. He seemed to see all the

great workshops, the men in the foundries in
the glare of their red furnaces, the brickwork,
the regiments of excavators on the soil, a whole
busy world of men, with plenty and prosperity
around them. He saw all this in one lightning's.
This was what had set his imagination
soberly aflame when he was a boy. This was
the lighthouse that Elle had shaped among the
boundless possibilities of life in Mr. Cattley's
study. Elle ! Ah ! that drove away his dream
in a moment, and brought him back to himself,
standing in a great confusion of being in Mr.
Barrett's office, studying the paper  the paper
which was only half visible to him, which made
fortune and favour sure.

I'll take to-day,' he said. ' I don't think I
can settle to anything to-day.'

They shook hands with him, even the old
sheep, looking out with his white locks with an
immovable face still distrustful of John, yet
compelled to that complaisance ; and he went
out with that in his pocket  that which proved
his early dreams to be real, which was the test
and touchstone of his value in the eyes of those
who had been his masters, and were best able

to judge. He went out, forgetting everything
else that had happened, taking up for the moment
his Hfe where he had dropped it a week
before. A week ago he would have taken that
paper to the family at the rectory and the
humbleness of his origin  his origin, which was
so respectable, yet not on the level of the
Spencers  would have been forgotten. Again
for one moment more the elation of his success
got into John's brain. Again he trod on air.
He thought, his brain all dizzy-with, the sudden
rapture, of showing it all to Elle, making her
understand. She would not understand, but
she would think she did, in her heart, if not in
her brain, and would jump to the delight of it,
and all that would follow. They would say to
each other that this was the Lighthouse, the
first idea that had stick their youthful fancy,
Elle's lighthouse, which had caught John's
imagination in its earliest dawning, and flashed
at last into this great thing.

The young man in his misery had a revelation,
a vision of overpowering sweetness and
delight. Without that spark of divine light
from her, he said to himself, it would never

VOL. III. T

have been, this great work, which he knew
would bring comfort and well-being over a
whole district, and make his name famous, and
bring many a blessing : Its name ; but they
should know, everybody should know that by
himself he never Avould have thought of it, that
it was Elle who had been the first. How could
he let the world know that it was Elle who was
the first  not, indeed, to think of the Thames
Valley and its drainage, or how to make an end
of the floods, she who could not, God bless her,
manage her algebra even, or work out a problem
to save her life  but only to light up the
thoughts that were good for that sort of thing,
to light the first divine beacon of which all
lighthouses were only the development? He
was very young in spite of all his maturity and
experience ; and for one blissful moment, nay
hour, this elation and rapture took possession of
his soul, and made him forget the horrible passage
through which he had gone, and all the
bitter realities around him. He floated once
more into a world of light and brightness, and
boundless hope and enthusiasm. All the more
heavenly, for the depth of despair in which he

had been dwelling, was the glory of this, the
confidence, the anticipation of everything that
was best both in work and in life, the happiness
of carrying it all out, the delight of talking
over with Elle, explaining it all to her day
by day. She would not understand, not a bit,
he said to himself, with tears of pleasure in his
eyes ; but it would come to the same thing :
for she would understand him and what he
wanted, and it Avould be her work as well as
his  Elle's lighthouse, of which the foundations
were laid in Mr. Cattley's study long ago.

When suddenly, in the midst of all these delightful
thoughts, John felt himself struck down
as if by a great stone, as if it were some falling
meteor, compounded of infernal elements, though
coming from the skies. It came down, down
with the straight and cruel velocity which is
given by natural laws, down to the very bottom
of his heart. Suddenly there seemed to appear
before him old Barrett shaking his head, and
his own mother, with her suspicious, troubled
eyes, watching him, looking for evil : and the
reason of it all. The convict's son ! with the
whole world watching to see when the leaven

twould

break out in him, his father's nature, the
instincts of the criminal  and even his friends
standing apart in horror and pity, brokenhearted,
yet holding his shame aloof. What
could they do but hold him aloof? And EUy,
Elle, who wanted to stand by him, who had
come to give him her support, to be his champion,
his stainless white protector ! He heard
himself laugh in the street like a madman, laugh
aloud with misery, he who had been nearly
weeping with pleasure. God help him, for what
could man do for him ; or woman either, or fool,
or angel  for was not she all these together,
she who could dream of the possibility of standing
up for him still, standing by him, and he his
father's son ?

CHAPTER XVII.

elle's pledge.

Mrs. Egerton and EUy were aware, but vaguely,
that something was happening outside while
they sat half frightened, bewildered, not knowing
what to think, in John's little parlour, dismayed
by the sudden appearance and disappearance
of the man who was his father, who
had looked at them with that deprecating, good-humoured
face, unlike a criminal, and who yet
was  something that they shuddered to think
of. They sat there silent, Hastening, waiting for
John to come back ; but they forgave him that
he did not come back. Everything was so
disorganised, so out of gear, that all the ordinary
laws seemed suspended, and even Mrs.
Egerton forgave, indeed scarcely thought of,
this breach of all the rules of courtesy. Poor

boy ! whatever he had done, she would have
forgiven him. She was sorry for him, sorry to
the bottom of her heart. And fortunately they
neither of them knew that Susie had been there,
and had fled, afraid to meet them, not knowing
what to say to them. Both pride and honour
had kept them from looking out, from spying
upon John, or watching what he was doing.
They had sat, as it were, behind a veil, and
only known vaguely and half by instinct that
another scene in this painful little drama was
going on outside. And then silence had come,
the sound of the voices had died away, and they
had still sat looking at each other with everything
stopped and arrested round them, not
knowing what to think. It was some time
before they made up their minds to go, leaving
the address of the house in which they were in
the habit of staying when they came to town to
see the pictures or do a little shopping such as
ladies from the country love. But all these
pleasant visages were forgotten in the excitement
of this crisis.

Tell Mr. Sandford we shall expect him as;
soon as he can come to us.'

Ob, I mil, ma'am, I mil,' cried Mrs. Short,
for he have need of his friends, that I'm sm-e of.
He do have need of his true friends.'

Mrs. Egerton was too much subdued and
anxious even to take advantage of this opportunity
to inquire into John's habits and mode of
life-which for a lady accustomed to manage a
parish was wonderful, and showed how serious
the emergency was. And then they got into
their cab and drove away.

These two ladies had come to London in a
flush of tender impulse and kindness, even Mrs.
Egerton, who was an impulsive woman, forgetting
all her objections  which, indeed, from the
beginning her heart had fought against. And
the thought of John in what seemed an abyss of
despair which had roused EUy to a swift determination
to suffer no more interference, to go to
him, stand by him, many him even in spite of
himself, and whether he wished it or not, had
also swept all prudential sentiments out of the
warm heart of her aunt. They had rushed like
a couple of doves flying to save some wounded
eagle, like a couple of generous, inconsequent
women, determined that there was nothing in

heaven or earth that could not be overcome by
then support and love. He had been met by
some sudden obstacle, perhaps, to the success he
had dreamt of  good heavens, what did that
matter 'i And as for his father, Jds father, what
could he have to do with it ? Even now,
when they knew all, though the elder woman
had met the revelation with a shriek of dismay,
Elle remained stolidly, stupidly unconscious of
any force in it. It did not affect her intelligence
at all : if it was anything, it was a reason for
standing more determinedly, more constantly,
by Jack, who wanted support  that was all. It
was not even that she would not permit herself
to see the force of it: she did not, actually.
It passed by her intelligence, and did not touch
her. The more reason to stand by Jack ! that
was all that Elle saw.

But as they drove along in the dingy cab,
through the endless shabby streets, in the
silence which Alas rendered more complete by
the din and tumult of London round them, a
better understanding came to both  even Elle
began to find a tremor seize her. Her mind
began to Avork in spite of herself. The moment

that came comes near, "within the circle where
honour has been always a foregone conclusion,
and any infringement of the law a thing impossible,
is a moment unspeakable, indescribable.
It is bad enough when vice shows itself among
all the pure traditions of an honourable family :
but crime  something that cannot be excused
by the force of temptation, that cannot be wept
over as affecting the sinner only, who is nobody's
enemy but this own  but a breach of
honesty, a crime against the law and against
the rights of others I There are sins which area
thousand times more deeply guilty than theft
or even forgery, but they are in a different
category. Trial, conviction, the contamination
of a prison, the felon's obliteration from personalty
and right, make up a horror and shame of
the actual, undeniable, matter-of-fact kind,
which the dullest feel, and which affect the
innocent nth. a sensation like a nightmare.

In the silence of their long drive Mrs. Egerton
repeated now and then to herself, ' A convict
I' A\'ith a shudder. Anything but that ; if
the father thus suddenly discovered had been a
beggar, if he had been a poor broken-down

clriuikard, a reprobate ! There are drunkards
and reprobates, alas ! everywhere, whom the
best of families have to put aside into some corner,
and veil with silence or with pitiful excuses,
with abandonment or sacrificing love. But a
convict cannot be hid. A man may live the
purest life, he may win everything that energy
and even genius can secure, but at the end of
all the meanest may rise up and say, ' Behold
the convict's son,' and cover even a hero with
shame. Imagination could not go so far as that
in picturing the evils that are possible. Poor
Jack ! Poor boy ! with his father a convict  a
convict I The horror of it was so great and
terrible that nothing was possible, save to say
over and over these words of shame.

And Elle felt it still more deeply in her way.
It seemed to ache all over her, this consciousness
which she could never shake off, never
forget. She took it for her own without doubt
or question, embraced it, drew it close to her,
with all the ahcmdon of youth. It seemed to
Elle that nobody would ever forget it, that it
would be blazoned on Jack, and all who belonged
to them, on their name, their dwelling.

and, above all, on those great things that he
was to do. And, of course, he could not give
up his father ; he must hive with them, be their*
daily companion, this man who had spent years
and years in a prison. She was silent, too, with
a chill upon all her thoughts. No idea of deserting
him ever came into Elle's mind. She
accepted the misery as for her too. And all
the accounts she had ever heard of the cruelty
of the world in visiting disgrace upon the innocent
came into her mind. Could they live it
down? she asked herself, or must Jack, poor
Jack, dear Jack, with only her to console him,
live under this shadow, this awful, undeserved
shadow, all his Hfe ?

Things were better when they got to their
rooms, where all was quiet, as quiet as a
London street can ever be ; and where, as they
sat down facing each other with nothing to do,
the irrepressible controversy broke forth :

Your father will never, never hear of it,'
Mrs. Egerton said. ' Never ! Even I myself,
Elle A convict  how could we let you connect
yourself with a conduct ? And your father
and brother both clergymen ! Percy would

die first. 1 am sure he would see you die first.
And even your father: your father  can be
very decided when he takes a thing into his
head.'

You said so before, Aunt Mary. You said
you never would consent ; but you talk now as
if you would have consented ; as if you had
consented.'

Ah, that was very different !' Mrs. Egerton
said. And in her heart Elle felt that it was
different, oh, how different ! So different, that
even Elle herself felt with a shudder that something
was before her quite other than love
and happiness. There would still be love,
oh, more than ever ! but bitter with pain and
shame.

It was the afternoon when John came to
them. They perceived at once, with their
quick, feminine habit of reading the face and
its expression, that some change had occurred
since the morning. Elle rushed to meet him,
when he entered, with both her eager hands
held out, but John turned from her, shaking
his head with sorrowful self-control. He came
and sat down opposite Mrs. Egerton. And there

followed a moment iu which no one spoke. Mrs.
Egerton lifted up her hands, and clasped them
together with the natural eloquence of restrained
emotion.

Oh, Jack,' she said, shaking her head, ' oh.
my poor boy !'

Pity, tenderness, reluctance, the inexorable
impossible were in her looks. It could not be,
it could not be ; and yet it broke her heart to
say so ; in such moments there is little need of
words.

I want to tell you,' he said. ' I want to

show you ' He took Mr. Barrett's paper

from his pocket, and spread it out before them :
the figures on it were like hieroglyphics in the
women's eyes. ' This is what I hoped for,' he

said, 'when I left Edgeley that day I

don't know how long ago, it might be a century.
My gi-eat scheme, that I had all my heart
in, is to be earned out. It sall bring me a
fortune : it is a great work, a work any man
might be proud to do. I have got my foot on
the ladder, sure. It is not mere hope any
longer, but sure, as sure as anything that is
mortal can be.'

Oh, Jack !' cried Elle, rushing to his side
once more.

I am very glad, Jack,' said Mrs. Egerton,
with a trembling voice, ' very glad, very glad,
for you  but, oh, my poor boy '

I know,' he said. ' Are you glad, indeed '?
that's very good of you. I'm not glad, not a
bit. It doesn't matter. I'll work at it all the
same, but I don't care. It's the same thing tome
whether it goes on or whether it stops.
You need not shake your head, for I know  I
know it makes no difference. But I thought I
must come and tell you. I am going to make
my fortune : but it does not matter to anyone
in the wide world, and I don't care.'

Jack,' said Elle, standing by his side, ' have
you made up your mind that you will pay no
attention to what I think or what I say V

He looked at her in such a bewildering
passion of misery and hopelessness that all expression
seemed to have gone out of his eyes.

Yes,' he said, ' I can't, I can't  even if you
would.' Then he paused, drawing a breath
which was half choked by something hysterical
in his throat. ' But 1 had to come and tell you.

It's what we used to talk of long ago. It's 
it's the lighthouse, Elle !' he cried, with a sudden
sob which all the manhood of twenty-one
could not restrain, and buried his face in his
hands.

She flung her arms round him, lent down
over him, holding his bowed head to her
breast. She was half-sister, half-mother, protector,
guardian, as well as his love. Tender,
domestic affection, unabashed, as well as the
strong passion of the woman, shone in the eyes
with which she turned to the weeping
spectator.

Do you think you or anyone will ever part
me from Jack ?' she said.

Oh, children, do not break my heart ! Your
father will never, never consent  and Percy 
and everybody who knows. Jack, for pity's
sake, tell her, tell her ! She will listen, perhaps,
to you.'

It was a minute at least, a long, long time,
before John raised himself, detaching those dear
arms.

Elle,' he said, ' I am my father's son. People
have distrusted me all my life, and I never

knew why. They may distrust me yet, and I
will know the reason, and God knows what it
may make of me. No, I know that yom father
will not consent.'

'And a girl's oAvnmind is nothing,' she cried,
indignant, ' I know yon all think so, whatever
yon may say.'

John turned to Mrs. Egerton with a piteous
look.

It is you that must tell her,' he said, ' how
can I do it ? I'm young, too. I only know you
mustn't decide, EUy, at your age. Yon don't
know the world; you don't know what you're
doing. If everything had been straightforward
with me, you are still above me, gentlefolks,
while I am nobody. You said so '

Oh, Jack, Jack !' said Mrs. Egerton, as if
this was a reproach.

'Everything is straightforward with you,'
said EUy. She had drawn away from him with
a little movement of pride. ' But,' she said,
it is true enough. I don't know the world,
and neither do you. Perhaps we are too
young. If you say that, or if Aunt Mary says
that, I will not make any objection, Jack  show

should I ? I don't Avant to force you to  to
have me before the time '

The extreme youth of both gave them a simplicity
of words and good faith which elder
lovers could not have ventured on. He accepted
what she said in all seriousness and
humility.

But there's more than that,' he said. < Oh,
Elle, I can't deny it, I can't disguise it, there's
more than that. If it was only that we were
too young I But everything is against us. And
how could I, loving you all my life, owing
everything to you as I do '

You owe me nothing, nothing. Jack ! It is
all the other way.'

Ah, don't say that, for I know better. I was
just thinking it's all you, Elle. I should have
gone into an office, or wherever they pleased to
put me. I should not have minded. It was aU
your Lighthouse. And to think,' said Jack, as
if that furnished him with a new argument,
'that I should bring you to shame! Never,
Elle; I would rather die.' He paused a
moment and shook his head. 'It's no good
talking of djmg, is it, at my age ? I'd rather 

VOL. III. U

live alone as I've always done, and do my
work the best I could, and agree that there was
nothing more for me in this world.'

Jack r cried Elle. with a kind of shriek of
exasperation and tenderness and contradiction.;
and then she turned from him, her eyes flaming
bright under the dew of tears, her cheeks like
two deep roses, her mouth quivering, smiling,
touched with fine scorn. She wanted some one
to vent her loving wrath, her disdain of all mean
arguments, her boundless, fiery indignation
upon. ' Aunt Mary,' she cried, ' how dare you
to say so, or to think it ? My father is a gentleman
! He may not be much as a parson  it's
not for me to say : but he's as fine a gentleman
as Chaucer's knight. Say all the bad things
you please, you two, I know what's in papa !
He will no more forbid me to marry John than
he would turn against the poor boy himself for
what's no fault of his. But I won't do it now,'
Elle added, magnanimously, breaking into a
laugh, which much resembled crying. 'Not
now. I'll wait till I'm one-and-twenty. And
then I'll do it with my father's full consent,
whatever you may do or say, you two !'

With which defiance fling at them, Elle
majestically marched out of the room, leaving
them to conclude the conference together.
What she did after, whether she did anything
but retire to her room and cry, burying her face
in the coverlet of her bed where she had thrown
herself, no one can say ; for nobody ever knew
from Elle what torrents of tears came after that
thunderstorm, nor how she trembled, and wondered,
and doubted if papa were really so noble,
so good, so fine a gentleman as she had asserted
him to be.

They will never consent,' said Mrs. Egerton,
after the girl had gone, ' Oh, Jack, 1 wish 1

could believe as she does, that my brother

But I will not deceive you. Jack. He will
never, never consent. He is a proud man,
though she does not know it  there are no such
proud people as these simple people. I wish, I
wish I could think as she does : but I can't, I
i-an't. Jack I'

'Do you really wish it, Mrs. Egerton,' said
John, taking her hand and kissing it. ' I could
not have expected that. It is more than I had
any right to hope.'

u 2

Did I say I wished it? I can't tell. She and
you draw the heart out of my breast. I ought
not to wish it. Oh, Jack, my poor Jack, this is
a dreadful thing to bear.'

He let her hand go with a deep sigh. ' Who
can feel that as I do V he said.

You ; oh, but it is different with you. The
man (I am sure I beg your pardon) is your
father. It is your duty to put up with him :
it is not for you to bring up his sins against
him. But we that have nothing to do with him
Jack, oh. Jack, the cases are different ! and
you say yourself that Elle ought not  that she
knows nothing of the world.'

It was ungenerous to appeal to what he had
himself said. But he consented with a melancholy
movement of his head.

The rector has always been very kind to me.
Oh, yes, I know that's a different thing altogether.
It is not like giving me Mrs.

Egerton, I think I had better go away, for what
is the use of talking. He is my father, it is true.
It is my business to put up with it, to bear it  to
bear everything that follows from it  but it is
hard. You can't say but what it is hard.'

Oh, Jack, my poor boy ! She took his hand
ill both of hers, and, that not being enough,
bent forward and kissed him in the anguish of
her sympathy. ' But what can I say to you ?
I can't deceive you. I know they vdU never,
never consent.'

John went away, not kno'ing where he
went, as if he were following his oti funeral.
He felt Hke that, he said to himself, sadly  the
funeral of all his hopes. He had his work, but
what would that be, what could it matter if he
made his fortune, without Elle ? And then he
went on reflecting, as many a man has done
before him, on the spite of fate. If this had
all happened before he went to Edgeley, how
much less would the misery have been ! It
would have been bad enough, but he could
have thrown it off, and perhaps in time have
forgotten it : for then Elle was but a Hght of his
childhood faint and far-off, and had not become
a necessity of his life. Why was he
permitted to go and see her again, to discover
all that she was to him, only to lose
her for ever ? For Elle had been right in what
she had said in her indignation, 'A gifts

own mind is nothing.' Even John, though he
had perfect trust in her, though for a moment
he had been carried away by the flash of
her resolution and certainty, did not take
much comfort now from EUy's pledge. She
did not understand (how should she 1) what
thing it was that so lightly, so easily, she made
up her mind to take upon herself. Poor
John put that aside in the deep despondency
that overwhelmed him. And, when his mind
recited to his momentary triumph of the
morning, it but added a pang the more. To
think that this success had secured the only
thing that had been needed a little while ago ;
and, now he had got it, it was nothing. He
went slowly, slowly away, following (he said
to himself again) his own funeral, not able t(v
hold up his head.

CHAPTER Xviii.

A SUSPENDED SOLUTION.

It seemed to matter very little to John that
Mr. Cattley met him in the evening with what he
thought good news. In the absence of anything
better, it was good news. May had been very
amiable, as was the manner of that hopeless but
good-humoured and philosophical unfortunate.
He declared that nothing on earth would induce
him to injm-e his children by attaching himself to
them : he had come back to John's room only to
return those papers which he had taken with
the intention of disposing of them on his son's
account, meaning no harm. He had never
meant any harm. He had intended, perhaps, to
secure to himself a share of the profit, but
never to harm the boy. * Though he's sadly

changed, if ever he was my little chap,' he said.

Mr. Cattley did not tell Jack, but he confided
to Susie that he had offered to take that smiling
and gentle-mannered reprobate to live with
us ' in the new parish where nobody would
have known. But May would not listen to any
such proposal. He was very wise and foreseeing,
and full of consideration.

There is no saying who might turn up,' he
said ; ' at the last, everything gets known ; and
perhaps a parson's house would be too much
for me,' he had added, with a twinkle in his
eyes. ' I don't know that I'm good enough for
that. I might fall into temptation, don't you
know ! And I couldn't live with a blunderbuss
always at my head, which would be the case if
I were with that son of mine  if he is my son.
And Susie would be worse, with her eyes. I
remember her eyes long ago  they were harder
to meet than all her mother's talk. They're all
very good, Mr. Cattley. A man might be very
happy among them ; but not my kind. I'm not
worthy of such company. No, I've got a plan
of my own.'

This plan, when it was stated, was to the

effect that May had made up his uiind to
emigrate. He thought he would go to the far
West of America, or to California.

I don't want to go to a place where there's no
fun,' he avowed, candidly. ' I want to see a
little Hfe. If I stay here, I'll get into mischief.'

Mr. Cattley (against his own wishes) had
done his best to persuade him to depart from
this determination, but in vain : and finally he
had been authorised to treat with the family
for the passage-money of the two travellers, for
Mr. Cattley had found the faithful Joe in attendance,
and had not been able to persuade May
that this was not a fit companion for him.

He has been all the company I've had.
Perhaps he's not fit for respectable society,' said
May, looking at the slouching ruffian with eyes
that were almost affectionate, 'but I'm not
respectable myself, and why should I pretend
to be better than he is ? I'm not better, I'm
worse, if the truth was knoai ; for of course I
know a great deal better, and ought to have
avoided what was wrong, if anything is really
wrong or right in this world. It depends so
much on your point of view.'

'But why should you not be respectable
f the curate had said. ' There is a home
waiting for you, and better company than
Joe.'

The unteachable, the never-to-be-convinced,
shook his head. ' Joe will suit me best he
said. And thus the bargain was made. He was
to have a moderate allowance, his passage-money,
and his outfit. He was shipped off with
his friend, decently clothed, well fitted out ashe
desired, and disappeared into the West.
When his children, half-glad, half-miserable,
went to see him off, he bade them be cheerful
and not fret. ' For there is no telling when the
fancy may take me, and I may turn up again,'
he said. The hearts of Susie and John sank
within them at this last blessing which he flung
at them over the side of the ship, which was
already beginning to churn the water on her
passage outward-bound. They did not see the
twinkle in his eye, nor know that he meant it
for a joke in the humorous simplicity of his
heart.

Susie married her curate shortly after, very
quietly, without any fuss, in London, an event

which caused much excitement in Edgeley, but
none where it took place. The Rev. Percy
Spencer never mentioned it at all, or allowed
that he knew of it. But he spoke of ' that fool
Cattley,' and was so Violent about the lat
curate's mismanagement of the parish that even
the mild rector, who never made any appearance
save in extremity, took up the cudgels on behalf
of the absent.

It 411 be well for you if you do half as much
for the parish in your day as Cattley did in his,'
the rector said ; and his son aghast at this unexpected
defence ventured to say no more.
Mrs. Egerton treated the matter in the contrary
way. She made, perhaps, too gi-eat a
joke of it, telling to everybody on the subject.
Such a good thing for him,' she said, ' going
into a new place : and a good little nonentity of
a wife who will adore him, which is what our
good Mr. Cattley was little used to.' But she
sent the pah a wedding present, and was
what Susie called very land. This marriage-was
no help to EUy, however, in the arduous
piece of work which she found she had before
her when she got home. It made matters a

little worse. It turned Percy into an open and
violent foe, and it shook a little the wavering
sympathy which Mrs. Egerton always accorded
her. And as for the rector, whom Elle had
declared her faith in, he did not respond as she
had hoped. He was a true gentleman, he was
as good as Chaucer's ' very parfit gentle knight '
he was all his daughter had claimed for him
to be. But he, too, shuddered at the name of
the convict. Like all the older people, he remembered
May's story, and all about him : and
to permit his daughter, the quintessence of the
family excellence and pride, the flower of all the
kindred, to connect herself with such a race was
more than Mr. Spencer's generosity, or his kindness,
or even Elle's influence could bring him
to. He retired into that stronghold of silence
which is so redoubtable. He would not argue
nor give his reasons ; he would not enter into
the abstract question. He acknowledged, or at
least he did not contest, the merits of John. But,
when all was said that Elle's fervid eloquence
could say, the rector remained responsive and
unshaken.

One light as well try to get an answer out

of a stone wall,' Elle cried, in hot exasperation
to her aunt.

Oh, my dear, didn't I tell you so ? I told
poor Jack so and he believed me, but you
would not believe me. He will never, never
consent.'

Then he shall never, never be asked anymore
!' cried Elle, in her indignation.

But this was a thing which it Alas not practicable
to carry out. He was asked again and
again, and continued to be asked until the time
when Elle should come of age, and then she
was determined to take her own way.

I am disappointed in papa,' she wrote to
John, ' but it is not out of his heart he does it.
He has not a word to say for himself, len I
have showed him the question in a just light,
and proved that all then objections are prejudice
and nonsense, he just goes back to where
he was at first and shakes his head. But never
mind. In two years' (in a year and a half  in a
year  according as time went on, for this
formula was repeated on several occasions) ' I
shall be of age. You cannot say that I don't
know the world or that I am too young then ;

;and they all know what 1 am going todo.'


John could not refuse to take comfort from
this repeated and unwavering pledge. He had
plunged into the preliminaries of his work without
a moment's delay, and very soon, at an age
when in England most young men are only beginning
to wonder what they shall do, he foiuid
himself at the heads oneof the greatest undertakings
in the country, the centre of endless activity.
Such advancement perhaps, everything favouring,
comes sooner in his profession than in any
other. But nobody, except those who had seen
him grow up, suspected how young Mr. Sandford
really was, and even those who did know
it could scarcely believe in the accuracy of their
own memory. He had always been older
than his years, and the great shock he had
received in the discovery of his father threw
him so far apart from all the thoughts and
occupations of youth, that it seems to John himself
like half-century, that age of doubt and of
misery, when everything was at its lowest ebb,
before the springing of new hope. That grave
youth matured under the fire of suffering into

something like a precocious middle-age, or at
least the steadiest, sternest manhood. He gi-ew
to be both respected and feared before he was
five-and-twentj. And, what was curious, the
resemblance to his father, which had been
chiefly, perhaps, in the imagination of the
elders, died completely away. He became like
Mrs. Sandford in these days of strong activity and
doubtful hope : not severe to his men, the multitude
of work-people of all classes who now
laboured under him, a whole little world of clerks,
engineers, artisans, and labourers in every gi-ate.
He was not severe ever : it was said indeed that
he took circumstances into consideration and
tempered justice with mercy when any fault
was pointed out at the office or among the men,
far more than most masters do, and was slow to
lose patience sith any young culprit ; but he
looked severe, which is the same thing  nay, is
better as a detriment. The people under him
were afraid of the stem look of his youthful unimpeachable
virtue : whereas, if he had been as
severe in fact as in looks, a natural antagonism,
the protest of nature against harshness, would
have speedily evolved itself.

There are some things, however, which John has
not been able to do, notwithstanding his great success.
He has never been able to move his mother
from the position in which she has so firmly
placed herself. Mrs. Sandford spoke no more
of her husband than was inevitable ; she never
recurred to the subject with John, never mentioned
it to Susie except on that one morning
when Mr. Cattley was first introduced to her :
but she took upon herself all the arrangements
that were made by Mr. Cattley for May's comfort,
not permitting either son or daughter to
interfere. Susie was proud of this fact, while
John with a grudge understood it at least  that
the proud woman could speak more freely to a
stranger than to her children, of the man who
had been the ruin of her own life. She would
not see her husband, however, and never spoke
of him, nor gave the least indication of any knowledge
on the subject. If she was aware of the
time of his departure, she made no sign of
looking it. There was no relenting in her, no
affection, only a horror beyond words. And she
would not allow John, when he began to grow
rich, to remove her from the laborious post

which it seemed no longer night that the
mother of a rising man, with plenty of money
at his disposal, should continue to hold. She
smiled at the suggestion, and dismissed it with
a wave of her hand. To retm-n to the little
house at Edgeley among all the village people,
which was what John in youthful ignorance,
notwithstanding his precocious middle-age,
would have liked her to do, was indeed impossible.
What would she have done there {
unless, indeed, the cholera had broken out, or
some tremendous epidemic, when she could have
organised hospitals. John, however, here let us
allow, with a gi-eat want of perception, was
annoyed that she should not have accepted this
proposal of his, and retired and given herself
repose after her hard-working life. But Mrs.
Sandford was not one of the people who long
for rest. * The wages of going on ' was what
pleased her most, and work, and her own way.
John was not pleased ; it would have soothed
him to thinly that his mother was resting and
doing nothing in that little house, which he
kept up always with an obstinate determination
that it should be, if not a grateful retirement
VOL. III. X

for anyone, at least the shrine of departed innocence
and peace.

We will not conceal from the reader that
Elle is now twenty-one and more, but that the
marriage has not yet taken place. There has
been sickness and trouble at Edgeley, and the
only daughter of the house has not been able to
withdraw from the post of duty : but since she
became of age she and her betrothed have
corresponded fully. She knows everything
that goes on at the works, and all the new steps
John is taking, and received telegrams three or
four times a day when that dreadful catastrophe
occurred which everyone has read of, when the
machinery broke down and the water poured
back into the old channels, and for a moment
everything seemed in jeopardy. John dragged
her into that as if she had been his head clerk :
he demanded her sympathy at every moment,
clamouring in her ears with his telegrams, in a
way which excited all the village. Indeed,
there has been no political convulsion, no contested
election, no crime or accident for fifty
years, which has thrilled through Edgeley like
that supposed collapse of the works in the

Thames Valley. When all was right, the whole
community began to breathe again. Dick, who
was at home on furlough, trudged backward and
foi-ward between the rectory and the post-office
for several days, too impatient to wait for the
telegraph boy : and when it was all over he was
the man who electrified the rectory and all
the community by saying, ' This will never do.'
Dick was a man of few words, like his father ;
an easy-going man who let other people
manage most of his affairs for him ; but when
much enforced he would say a word of weight
all the more startling from its rarity. He
said these words one evening after dinner in the
midst of the family, suddenly when nobody expected
it. He brought down his hand upon the
table, not roughly, but TNith sufficient sound to
call attention, and he said,

'This will never do. This business about
Elle and Jack. He is a better man than any of
us. What does it matter who was his father ?
He's his own father, and all his relations. And
that Mrs. Cattley's a sweet Httle woman. Don't
let's have any more nonsense about it,' said
Dick.

The rector gasped, and Mrs. Egerton fell a-
crying, and Percy rose and left the table. But
Elle held out her hand to her big brother, and
the thing was as good as settled from that day.

Let it be a comfort to all virtuous young
persons in a similar position that, as long as they
hold out and are firm and constant, some one
will always arise at the end and face all obstructions
with the verdict of good sense and
honest sympathy, saying in face of all unnecessary
objections, whether of birth or of money :
This will never do.'

But with all his success, and with the happiness
which is about to come, one great cloud
remains on John Sandford's life, a fear which
sometimes takes his breath away and makes his
heart sick, the fear that some day when he
suspects nothing, some sweet day  it might be
his marriage morning, it might be any happy
anniversary  there will suddenly appear round
a corner a stumbling, shambling figure, never
without a certain attractiveness even in its
degradation, a sort of charm of careless innocence
in the midst of guilt. Sometimes when
he goes through the works with perhaps a little

elation in the greatness of his undertaking and
the consciousness of the crowd which looks upto
him as master, surrounding him with that
veiled obsequiousness which makes the head of
great industrial enterprises like a little king 
the sight of some shadow in the distance will
take all the strength and courage out of him.

There is no telling when the fancy may take
me.' These words come back to his ears with
a meaning far more than was ever intended.
But as a matter of fact there is cause enough to
fear. For May never meant anything steadily
or for long all his life. And when the fun to
which he looked forward is exhausted  which
is a thing that soon happens on the shady side
of life  who can tell that the fancy may not
take him to bring the remnants of his worn-out
existence home ? Poor wretch, for whom love
and honour do not exist, but only fear and pity I
the good man, the prosperous and happy, who
has deserved his prosperity, as well as the other
deserved his misery, is still the Son of His
Father, and still bound for ever in this world at
least, wretchedness to well-being, honour to
shame.

There is, however, one way in which this
piece of personal history may be safely made to
end like a fairy-tale. Susie and her curate went
home to their new parish like a pair of doves to
their nest. And these two lived happy ever
after, if ever any pair did so in this troubled
yet not always miserable world.

