Chapter 11.

The Warings lead been settled at Bordighera
almost as long as Frances could remember. She
had known no other way of living than that
which could be carried on under the painted
roofs in the Palazzo, nor any other domestic
management than that of Domenico and Marius
She herself had been brought up by the
latter, who had taught her to knit stockings and
to make lace of a coarse kind, and also how to
spare and save, and watch every detail of the
5pe5(3  the weekly or daily accounts  with an
anxious eye. Beyond this, Frances had received
very little education : her father had taught her
fitfully to read and write after a sort ; and he
had taught her to draw, for which she had a
little faculty  that is to say, she had made little
sketches of all the points of view round about,

which, if they were not very great in art, amused
her, and made her feel that there was something
she could do. Indeed, so far as doing went, she
had a good deal of knowledge. She could mend
very neatly  so neatly, that her darn or her
patch was almost an ornament. She was indeed
neat in everything, by instinct, without being
taught. The consequence was, that her life was
very full of occupation, and her time never hung
heavy on her hands. At eighteen, indeed, it
may be doubted whether time ever does hang
heavy on a girl's hands. It is when ten years
or so of additional life have passed over her
head, bringing her no more important occupations
than those which are pleasant and appropriate
to early youth, that she begins to feel
her disabilities ; but fortunately, that is a period
of existence with which at the present moment
we have nothing to do.

Her father, who was not fifty yet, had been
a young man when he came to this strange
seclusion. Why he should have chosen Cordillera,
no one had taken the trouble to inquire.
He came when it was a little town on the spur
of the hill, without either hotels or tourists, or

at least very few of these articles  like many
other little towns which are perched on little
platforms among the olive woods all over that
lovely country. The place had commended itself
to him because it was so completely out of the
way. And then it was very cheap, simple, and
primitive. He was not, however, by any means
a primitive-minded man; and when he took
Domenico and Mariuccia into his service, it was
for a year or two an interest in his life to train
them to everything that was the reverse of their
own natural primitive ways. Mariuccia had a
little native instinct for cookery such as is not
unusual among the Latin races, and which her
master trained into all the sophistications of a
cordon heu. And Domenico had that lively
desire to serve his padrone '' hand and foot," as
English servants say, and do everything for him,
which comes natural to an amiable Italian eager
to please. Both of them had been encouraged
and trained to carry out these inclinations. Mr
Waring was difficult to please. He wanted
attendance continually. He would not tolerate
a speck of dust anywhere, or any carelessness of
service ; but otherwise he was not a bad master.

He left them many independence, which suited
them, and never objected to that appropriation
to themselves of his house as theirs, and assertion
of themselves as an important part of the
family, which is the natural result of a long
service. Frances grew up accordingly in franker
intimacy with the honest couple than is usual
in English households. There was nothing they
would not have done for the Signorina  starve
for her, scrape and pinch for her, die for her if
need had been ; and in the meantime, while
there was no need for service more heroic,
correct her, and improve her mind, and set her
faults before her with simplicity. Her faults
were small, it is true, but zealous Love did not
omit to find many out.

Mr Waring painted a little, and was disposed
to call himself an artist ; and he read a great
deal, or was supposed to do so, in the library,
which formed one of the set of rooms, among
the old books in vellum, which took a great deal
of reading. A little old public library existing
in another little town farther up among the hills,
gave him an excuse, if it was not anything
more, for a great deal of what he called work.

There were some manuscripts and a nmnler of
old editions laid up in this curious little hermitage
of learning, from which the few people
who knew him believed he was going some day
to compile or collect something of importance.
The people who knew him were very few. An
old clergyman, who had been a colonial chaplain
all his life, and now 'took the service" in the
bare little room which served as an English
church, was the chief of his acquaintances. This
gentleman had an old wife and a middle-aged
daughter, who furnished something like society
for Frances. Another associate was an old
Indian officer, much battered by wounds, liver,
and disappointment, who, systematically neglected
by the authorities (as he thought), and
finding himself a nobody in the home to which
he had looked forward for so many years, had
retired in disgust, and built himself a little
house, surrounded with palms, which reminded
him of India, and full in the rays of the sun,
which kept off his neuralgia. He, too, had a
wife, whose constant correspondence with her
numerous children occupied her mind and
thoughts, and who liked Frances because she

never tired of hearing stories of those absent
sons and daughters. They saw a good deal of
each other, these three resident families, and
reminded each other from time to time that
there was such a thing as society.

In summer they disappeared  sometimes to
places higher up among the hills, sometimes to
Switzerland or the Tyrol, sometimes " home."
They all said home, though neither the Durante
nor the Gaunts knew much of England, and
though they could never say enough in disparagement
of its grey skies and cold winds.
But the Warings never went "home." Frances,
who was entirely without knowledge or associations
with her native country, used the word
from time to time because she heard Taste
Durant or Mrs Gaunt do so ; but her father
never spoke of England, nor of any possible
return, nor of any district in England as* that
to which he belonged. It escaped him at times
that he had seen something of society a dozen
or fifteen years before this date ; but otherwise,
nothing was known about his past life. It was
not a thing that was much discussed, for the
intercourse in which he lived with his neighbours

was not intimate, nor was there any
particular reason why he should enter upon
his own history ; but now and then it would
be remarked by one or another that nobody
knew anything of his antecedents. '' What's
your county, Waring ? " General Gaunt had
once asked ; and the other had answered with
a languid smile, " I have no county," without
the least attempt to explain. The old general,
in spite of himself, had apologised, he did not
know why ; but still no information was given.
And Waring did not look like a man who had
no county. His thin long figure had an aristocratic
air. He knew about horses, and dogs, and
country-gentleman sort of subjects. It was impossible
that he should turn out to be a shopkeeper's
son, or a bourgeois of any kind. However,
as has been said, the English residents
did not give themselves much trouble about
the matter. There was not enough of them
to get up a little parochial society, like that
which flourishes in so many English colonies,
gossiping with the best, and forging anew for
themselves those chains of a small community
which everybody pretends to hate.

In the afternoon of the day on which the
encounter recorded in the previous chapter had
taken place, Frances sat in the loggia alone at
her work. She was busy with her drawing 
a very elaborate study of palm-trees, which she
was making from a cluster of those trees which
were visible from where she sat; A loggia is
something more than a balcony; it is like a
room with the outer wall or walls taken away.
This one was as large as the big alone out
of which it opened, and had therefore room
for changes of position as the sun changed.
Though it faced the west, there was always a
shady corner at one end or the 'other. It was
the favourite place in which Frances carried
on all her occupations  where her father came
to watch the sunset  where she had tea, with
that instinct of English habit and tradition
which she possessed without knowing how. Mr
Waring did not much care for her tea, except
now and then in a fitful way; and Mariuccia
thought it medicine. But it pleased Frances to
have the little table set out with two or three
old china cups which did not match, and a
small silver teapot, which was one of the very

few articles of value in the house. Yeiy rarely,
not once in a month, had she any occasion for
these cups ; but yet, such a chance did occur
at long intervals ; and in the meantime, with
a pleasure not much less infantine, but much
more wistful than that with which she had
played at having a tea-party seven or eight
years before, she set out her little table now.
She was seated with her drawing materials
on one table and the tea on another, in the
stillness of the afternoon, looking out upon the
mountains and the sea. No ; she was doing
nothing of the sort. She was looking with all
her might at* the clump of palm-trees within
the garden of the villa, which lay low down
at her feet between her and the sunset. She
was not indifferent to the sunset. She had
an admiration, which even the humblest art-training
quickens, for the long range of coast,
with its innumerable ridges running down from
the sky to the sea, in every variety of gnarled
edge, and gentle slope, and precipice ; and for
the amazing blue of the water, with its ribbon-edge
of paler colours, and the deep royal purple
of the broad surface, and the white sails thrown

up against it, and the white foam that turned
up the edges of every little wave. But in the
meantime she was not thinking of them, nor of
the infinitely varied lines of the mountains, or
the specks of towns, each with its campanile
shining in the sun, which gave character to the
scene ; but of the palms on which her attention
was fixed, and which, however beautiful they
sound, or even look, are apt to get very spiky
in a drawing, and so often will not " come " at
all. She was full of fervour in her work, which
had got to such a pitch of impossibility that
her lips were dry and wide apart from the
strain of excitement with which she struggled
with her subject, when the bell tinkled where
it hung outside upon the stairs, sending a little
jar through all the Palazzo, where bells were
very uncommon ; and presently Tasie Durant,
pushing open the door of the scone, with a
breathless little "Permesso?" came out upon
the loggia in her usual state of haste, and with
half-a-dozen small books tumbling out of her
hand.

Never mind, dear ; they are only books for
the Sunday-school. Don't you know we had

twelve last Sunday ? Twelve !  think !  when
I have thought it quite large and extensive to
have five. I never was more pleased. I am
getting up a little library for them like they
have at home. It is so nice to have everything
like they have at home."

Like what ? " said Frances, though she had
no education.

"Like they have  well, if you are so particular,
the same as they have at home. There
were three of one family  think ! Not little
nobodies, but ladies and gentlemen. It is so nice
of people not just poor people, people of education,
to send their children to the Sunday-school."

New people ? " said Frances.

"Yes; tourists, I suppose. You all scoff at
the tourists ; but I think it is very good for the
place, and so pleasant for us to see a new face
from time to time. Why should they all go to
Mentone ? Mentone is so town, quite a big
place. And papa says that in his time Nice
was everything, and that nobody had ever
heard of Mentone."

Who are the new people, Tasie ? " Frances
asked.

"They are a large family  that is all I know;
not likely to settle, more's the pity. Oh no.
Quite ivell people, not even a delicate child,"
said Miss Durant, regretfully ; " and such a
nice domestic family, always walking about together.
Father and mother, and governess and
six children. They must be very well off, too,
or they could not travel like that, such a lot of
them, and nurses  and I think I heard, a courier
too." This, Miss Durant said in a tone of some
emotion; for the place, as has been said, was
just beginning to be known, and the people
who came as yet were but pioneers.

I have seen them. I wonder who they are.

My father " said Frances ; and then stopped,

and held her head on one side, to contemplate
the effect of the last touches on her drawing ;
but this was in reality because it suddenly
occurred to her that to publish her father's
acquaintance with the stranger might be unwise.


"Your father?" said Tasie. "Did he take
any notice of them ? I thought he never took
any notice of tourists. Haven't you done those
palms yet ? What a long time you are taking

VOL. I. c

over them ! Do you think you have got the
colour quite right on those stems ? Nothing
is so difficult to do as palms, though they look
so easy  except olives : olives are impossible.
But what were you going to say about your
father ? PajDa says he has not seen Mr Waring
for ages. When will you come up to see us ? "

It was only last Saturday, Tasie."

Week," said Tasie. " Oh yes, I assure

you ; for I put it down in my diary : Saturday
week. You can't quite tell how time goes,
when you don't come to church. Without
Sunday, all the days are alike. I wondered
that you were not at church last Sunday,
Frances, and so did mamma."

Why was it ? I forget. I had a headache,
I think. I never like to stay away. But I
went to church here in the village instead."

Frances, I wonder your papa lets you do
that ! It is much better when you have a headache
to stay at home. I am sure I don't want
to be intolerant, but what good can it do you
g-oino; there ? You can't understand a word."

"Yes, indeed I do  many words. Mariuccia
has shown me all the places ; and it is good to

Ah, dance ! " said Tasie, with a little sigh.
"You know there is never anything of that
kind here. I suppose you never was at a dance
in your life  unless it is in summer, when you
go away ? "

I have never been at a dance in my life. I
have seen a ballet, that is all."

Frances, please don't talk of anything so
wicked ! A ballet ! that is very different from
nice people dancing  from dancing one's own
self with a nice partner. However, as we never
do dance here, I can't see why you should say
that about our church. It is a pity, to be sure,
that we have no right church ; but it is a lovely
room, and quite suitable. If you would only
practise the harmonium a little, so as to take
the music when I am away. I never can afford
to have a headache on Sunday," Miss Durant
added, in an injured tone.

'* But, Tasie, how could I take the harmonium,
when I don't even know how to play ? "

I have offered to teach you, till I am tired,
Frances. I wonder what your papa thinks, if
he calls it reasonable to leave you without any
accomplishments ? You can draw a little, it is
true ; but you can't bring out your sketches
in the drawing-room of an evening, to amuse
people ; and you can always play "

"When you can play."

Yes, of course that is what I mean  when
you can play. It has quite vexed me often to
think how little trouble is taken about you ;
for you can't always be young, so young as you
are now. And suppose some time you should
have to go home  to your friends, you know ? "

Frances raised her head from her drawing
and looked her companion in the face. " I
don't think we have any  friends," she said.

Oh, my dear, that must be nonsense ! " cried
Tasie. " I confess I have never heard your
papa talk of any. He never says ' my brother,'
or ' my sister,' or ' my brother-in-law,' as other
people do  but then he is such a very quiet
man ; and you must have somebody  cousins at
least  you must have cousins ; nobody is without
somebody," Miss Durant said.

Tasie looked at her with the look of one who
would say much if she could  wistfully and
kindly, yet with something of the air of mingled
importance and reluctance with which the bearer
of ill news hesitates before opening his budget.
She had indeed no actual ill news to tell, only
the burden of that fact of which everybody felt
Frances should be warned  that her father was
looking more delicate than ever, and that his
friends " ought to know. She would have
liked to speak, and yet she had not courage
to do so. The girl's calm consent that probably
she must have cousins was too much for anyone's
patience. She never seemed to think that
one day she might have to be dependent on

these cousins ; she never seemed to think

But after all, it was Mr Waring's fault. It was
not poor Frances that was to blame.

"You know how often I have said to you

that you ought to play, you ought to be able
to play. Supposing you have not any gift for
it, still you might be able to do a little. You
could so easily get an old piano, and I should
like to teach you. It would not be a task at
all. I should like it. I do so wish you would
begin. Drawing and languages depend a great
deal upon your own taste and upon your opportunities
; but every lady ought to play."

Tasie (or Anastasia, but that name was too
long for anybody's patience) was a great deal
older than Frances  so much older as to justify
the hyperbole that she might be her mother ;
but of this fact she herself was not aware. It
may seem absurd to say so, but yet it was
true. She knew, of course, how old she was,
and how young Frances was ; but her faculties
were of the kind which do not perceive differences.
Tasie herself was just as she had been
at Frances' age  the girl at home, the young
lady of the house. She had the same sort of
occupations : to arrange the flowers ; to play
the harmonium in the little colonial chapel ;
to look after the little exotic Sunday-school ;
to take care of papa's surplice ; to play a little

in the evenings when they "had people with
them " ; to do fancy-work, and look out for such
amusements as were going. It would be cruel
to say how long this condition of young-babyhood
had lasted, especially as Tasie was a very
good girl, kind, and friendly, and simple-hearted,
and thinking no evil.

Some women chafe at the condition which
keeps them still girls when they are no longer
girls ; but Miss Durant had never taken it into
her consideration. She had a little more of the
housekeeping to do, since mamma had become
so delicate ; and she had a great deal to fill
up her time, and no leisure to think or inquire
into her own position. It was her position,
and therefore the best position which any girl
could have. She had the satisfaction of being
of the greatest use to her parents, which is the
thing of all others which a good child would
naturally desire. She talked to Frances without
any notion of an immeasurable distance
between them, from the same level, though
with a feeling that the girl, by reason of having
had no mother, poor thing, was lamentably
backward in many ways, and sadly Ijlind,

though that was natural, to the hazard of her
own position. What would become of her if
Mr Waring died ? Tasie would sometimes
grow quite anxious about this, declaring that
she could not sleep for thinking of it. If
there were relations  as of course there must
be  she felt that they would think Frances
sadly deficient. To teach her to play was
the only practical way in which she could
show her desire to benefit the girl, who, she
thought, might accept the suggestion from a
girl like herself, when she might not have
done so from a more authoritative voice.

Frances on her part accepted the suggestion
with placidity, and replied that she would
think of it, and ask her father ; and perhaps if

she had time But she did not really at all

intend to learn music of Tasie. She had no
desire to know just as much as Tasie did,
whose accomplishments, as well as her age
and her condition altogether, were quite evident
and clear to the young creature, whose
eyes possessed the unblessed and distinct
vision of youth. She appraised Miss Durant
exactly at her real value, as the young so

constantly do, even when they are quite submissive
to the little conventional fables of life,
and never think of asserting their superior
knowledge ; but the conversation was suggestive,
and beguiled her mind into many new
channels of thought. The cousins unknown 
should she ever be brought into intercourse
with them, and enter perhaps a kind of otherworld
through their means  would they think
it strange that she knew so little, and could
not play the piano ? Who were they ? These
thoughts circled vaguely in her mind through
all Tasie's talk, and kept flitting out and in
of her brain, even when she removed to the
tea-table and poured out some tea. Tasie
always admired the cups. She cried, " This
is a new one, Frances. Oh, how lucky you
are ! What pretty bits you have picked
up ! " with all the ardour of a collector. And
then she began to talk of the old Savona
pots, which were to be had so cheap, quite
cheap, but which, she heard at home, were
so much thought of.

Frances did not pay much attention to the
discourse about the Savona pots ; she went

on with her thoughts about the cousins, and
when Miss Durant went away, gave herself
up entirely to those speculations. What sort
of people would they be ? Where would they
live ? And then there recurred to her mind
the meeting of the morning, and what the
stranger said who knew her father. It was
almost the first time she had ever seen him
meet any one whom he knew, except the
acquaintances of recent times, with whom she
had made acquaintance, as he did. But the
stranger of the morning evidently knew about
him in a period unknown to Frances. She
had made a slight and cautious attempt to
find out something about him at breakfast,
but it had not been successful. She wondered
whether she would have courage to
ask her father now in so many words who
he was and what he meant.

As it turned out, Frances had not the courage.
Mr Waring strolled into the loggia shortly after
Miss Durant had left her. He smiled when he
heard of her visit, and asked what news she had
brought. Tasie was the recognised channel for
news, and seldom appeared without leaving
some little story behind her.

I don't think she had any news to-day,
except that there had been a great many at the
Sunday-school last Sunday. Fancy, papa, twelve
children ! She is quite excited about it."

That is a triumph," said Mr Waring, with a
laugh. He stretched out his long limbs from the
low basket-chair in which he had placed himself.
He had relaxed a little altogether from
the tension of the morning;, feeling; himself
secure and at his case in his own house, where

no one could intrude upon him or call up ghosts
of the past. The air was beyond expression
sweet and tranquillising, the sun going down ina
mist of glory behind the endless peaks and
ridges that stretched away towards the west,
the sea lapping the shore with a soft cadence
that was more imagined than heard on the
heights of the Punto, but yet added another
harmony to the scene. Near at hand a faint
wind rustled the long leaves of the palm-trees,
and the pale olive woods lent a softness to the
landscape, tempering its radiance. Such a
scene fills up the weary mind, and has the
blessed quality of arresting thought. It was
good for the Breathing too  or at least so this
invalid thought  and he was more amiable than
usual, with no harshness in voice or temper
to introduce a discord. "I am glad she was
pleased," he said. " Tasie is a good girl, though
not perhaps so much of a girl as she thinks.
Why she goes in for a Sunday-school where
none is wanted, I can't tell ; but anyhow, I am
glad she is pleased. Where did they come from,
the twelve children ? Poor little beggars, how
sick of it they must have been ! "

'' A number of them belonged to that English
family, papa "

I suppose they must all belong to English
families," he said, calmly ; " the natives are not
such fools."

But, papa, I mean  the people we met  the
people you knew."

He made no reply for a few minutes, and then
he said calmly, "What an ass the man must
be, not only to travel with children, but to send
them to poor Tasie's Sunday-school ! You must
do me the justice, Fan, to acknowledge that I
never attempted to treat you in that way."

No ; but, papa  perhaps the gentleman is a
very religious man."

And you don't think I am ? Well, perhaps
I laid myself open to such a retort."

"0 papa ! " Frances cried, with tears starting
to her eyes, " you know I could not mean that."

'' If you take religion as meaning a life by
rule, which is its true meaning, you were right
enough, my dear. That is what I never could
do. It might have been better for me if I had
been more capable of it. It is always better to
put one's self in harmony with received notions

and the prejudices of society. Tasie would not
have her Sunday-school but for that. It is the
right thing. I think you have a leaning towards
the right thing, my little girl, yourself."

"I don't like to be particular, papa, if that is
what you mean."

Always keep to that," her father said, with
a smile. And then he opened the book which
he had been holding all this time in his hand.
Such a thing had happened, when Frances was
in high spirits and very courageous, as that she
had pursued him even into his book ; but it was
a very rare exercise of valour, and to-day she
shrank from it. If she only had the courage !
But she had not the courage. She had given
up her drawing, for the sun no longer shone on
the group of palms. She had no book, and
indeed at any time was not much given to
reading, except when a happy chance threw a
novel into her hands. She watched the sun go
down by imperceptible degrees, yet not slowly,
behind the mountains. When he had quite
disappeared, the landscape changed too ; the
air, as the Italians say, grew brown ; a little
momentary chill breathed out of the sky. It

is always depressing to a solitary watcher when
this change takes place.

Frances was not apt to be depressed, but for
the moment she felt lonely and dull, and a great
sense of monotony took hold upon her. It was
like this every night ; it would be like this, sofar
as she knew, every night to come, until
perhaps she grew old, like Tasie, without becoming
aware that she had ceased to be a girl.
It was not a cheering prospect. And when
there is any darkness or mystery surrounding
one's life, these are just the circumstances to
quicken curiosity, and turn it into something
graver, into an anxious desire to know. Frances
did not know positively that there was a
mystery. She had no reason to think there
was, she said to herself. Her father preferred
to live easily on the Kiviera, instead of living
in a way that would trouble him at home.
Perhaps the gentleman they had met was a
bore, and that was why Mr AVaring avoided all
mention of him. He frequently thought people
were bores, with whom Frances was very well
satisfied. Why should she think any more of
it ? Oh, how she wished she had the courage

to ask plainly and boldly, Who are we ? Where
do we come from ? Have we any friends ?
But she had not the courage. She looked
towards him, and trembled, imagining within
herself what would be the consequence if she
interrupted his reading, plucked him out of the
quietude of the hour and of his book, and
demanded an explanation  when very likely
there was no explanation ! when, in all probability,
everything was quite simple, if she
only knew.

The evening passed as evenings generally did
pass in the Palazzo. Mr Waring talked a little
at dinner quite pleasantly, and smoked a cigarette
in the loggia afterwards in great good-humour,
telling Frances various little stories of
people he had known. This was a sign of high
satisfaction on his part, and very agreeable to
her, and no doubt he was entirely unaware of
the perplexity in her mind and the questions
she was so desirous of asking. The air was
peculiarly soft that evening, and he sat in the
loggia till the young moon set, with an overcoat
on his shoulders and a rug on his knees, sometimes
talking, sometimes silent  in either way

a very agreeable companion. Frances had never
been cooped up in streets, or exposed to the
chill of an English spring ; so she had not that
keen sense of contrast which doubles the enjoyment
of a heavenly evening in such a heavenly
locality. It was all quite natural, common, and
everyday to her ; but no one could be indifferent
to the sheen of the young moon, to
the soft circling of the darkness, and the reflections
on the sea. It was all very lovely, and
yet there was something wanting. What was
wanting ? She thought it was knowledge,
acquaintance with her own position, and relief
from this strange bewildering sensation of being
cut off from the race altogether, which had
risen within her mind so quickly and with so
little cause.

But many beside Frances have felt the wistful
call for happiness more complete, which
comes in the soft darkening of a summer night ;
and probably it was not explanation, but something
else, more common to human nature, that
she wanted. The voices of the peaceful people
outside, the old men and women who came out
to sit on the benches upon the Punto, or on the

VOL. I. D

stone seat under the wall of the Palazzo, and
compare their experiences, and enjoy the cool
of the evening, sounded pleasantly from below.
There was a softened din of children playing,
and now and then a sudden rush of voices,
when the young men who were strolling about
got excited in conversation, and stopped short
in their walk for the delivery of some sentence
more emphatic than the rest ; and the mothers
chattered over their babies, cooing and laughing.
The babies should have been in bed, Frances
said to herself, half laughing, half crying, in a
sort of tender anger with them all for being
so familiar and so much at home. They were
entirely at home where they were ; they knew
everybody, and were known from father to son,
and from mother to daughter, all about them.
They did not call a distant and unknown country
by that sweet name, nor was there one among
them who had any doubt as to where he or she
was born. This thought made Frances sigh, and
then made her smile. After all, if that was all I
And then she saw that Domenico had l)rouo;ht
the lamp into the alone, and that it was time
to go indoors.

Next morning she went out between the early
coffee and the mid-day breakfast to do some
little household business, on which, in consideration
that she was English and not bound
by the laws that are so hard and fast with
Italian girls, Mariuccia consented to let her go
alone. It was very seldom that Mr Waring
went out or indeed was visible at that hour,
the expedition of the former day being very
exceptional. Frances went down to the shops
to do her little commissions for Mariuccia. She
even investigated the Savona pots of which
Tasie had spoken. In her circumstances, it was
scarcely possible not to be more or less of a
collector. There is nobody in these regions
who does not go about with eyes open to anything
there may be to "pick up." And after
this she walked back through the olive woods,
by those distracting little terraces which lead
the stranger so constantly out of his way, but
are quite simple to those who are to the manner
lorn  until she reached once more the broad
piece of unshadowed road which leads up to the
old town. At the spot at which she and her
father had met the English family yesterday.

LfBRARY

Universal OF IIUN0

she made a momentary pause, recalling all the
circumstances of the meeting, and what the
stranger had said  "A fellow that stuck by
you all through." All through what ? she
asked herself. As she paused to make this
little question, to which there was no response,
she heard a sound of voices coming from the
upper side of the wood, where the slopes rose
high into more and more olive gardens. "Don't
hurry along so ; I'm coming," some one said.
Frances looked up, and her heart jumped into
her mouth as she perceived that it was once
more the English family whom she was about
to meet on the same spot.

The father was in advance this time, and he
was hurrying down, she thought, with the intention
of addressing her. What should she
do ? She knew very well what her father
would have wished her to do ; but probably for
that very reason a contradictory impulse arose
in her. Without doubt, she wanted to know
what this man knew and could tell her. Not
that she would ask him anything ; she was too
proud for that. To betray that she was not
acquainted with her father's affairs, that she

Miss Waring, Miss Waring I " he cried as he
approached, " how is your father ? I want to
ask for your father," taking off his straw hat
and exposing his flushed countenance under the
shadow of the green-lined umbrella, which enhanced

all its ruddy tints. Then, as lie came
within reach of her, he added hastily, " I am
so glad I have met you. How is he ? for he
did not give me any address."

Papa is c[uite well, thank you," said Frances,
with the habitual response of a child.

Quite well ? Oh, that is a great deal more
than I expected to hear. He was not quite
well yesterday, I am sure. He is dreadfully
changed. It was a sort of guesswork my recognising
him at all. He used to be such a
powerful-made man. Is it pulmonary ? I suspect
it must be something of the kind, he has
so wasted away."

Pulmonary ? Indeed I don't know. He
has a little asthma sometimes. And of course
he is very thin," said Frances ; *' but that does
not mean anything ; he is quite well."

The stranger shook his head. He had taken
the opportunity to wipe it with a large white
handkerchief, and had made his bald forehead
look redder than ever. " I shouldn't like to
alarm you," he said  " I wouldn't, for all the
world; but I hope you have trustworthy advice
? These Italian doctors, they are not much

to be trusted. You should get a real good
English doctor to come and have a look at
him."

Oh, indeed, it is only asthma ; he is well
enough, quite well, not anything the matter
with him," Frances protested. The large
stranger stood and smiled compassionately
upon her, still shaking his head.

Mary," he said  " here, my dear ! This is
Miss Waring. She says her father is quite
well, poor thing. I am telling her I am so
very glad we have met her, for Waring did
not leave me any address."

How do you do, my dear ? " said the stout
lady  not much less red than her husband 
who had also hurried down the steep path to
meet Frances. ' And your father is quite
well ? I am so glad. We thought him looking
rather  thin ; not so strong as he used to
look."

But then," added her husband, "it is such
a long time since we have seen him, and he
never was very stout. I hope, if you will
pardon me for asking, that things have been
smoothed down between him and the rest of

the family ? When I say ' smoothed down,' I
mean set on a better footing  more friendly,
more harmonious. I am very glad I have seen
you, to inquire privately ; for one never knows
how far to go with a man of his  well  peculiar
temper."

Don't say that, George. You must not
think, my dear, that Mr Mannering means anything
that is not quite nice, and friendly, and
respectful to your papa. It is only out of
kindness that he asks. Your poor papa has
been much tried. I am sure he has always
had my sympathy, and my husband's too.
Mr Mannering only means that he hopes things
are more comfortable between your father

and Which is so much to be desired

for everybody's sake."

The poor girl stood and stared at them with
large, round, widely opening eyes, with the
wondering stare of a child. There had been
a little half-mischievous, half-anxious longing
in her mind to find out what these strangers
knew ; but now she came to herself suddenly,
and felt as a traveller feels who all at once pulls
himself up on the edge of a precipice. What

was this pitfall which she had nearly stumbled
into, this rent from the past which was so great
and so complete that she had never heard of it,
never guessed it ? Fright seized upon her, and
dismay, and, what probably stood her in more
stead for the moment, a stinging sensation of
wounded pride, which brought the colour burning
to her cheeks. Must she let these people
find out that she knew nothing, at her age 
that her father had never confided in her at all
that she could not even form an idea what
they were talking about ? She had pleased
herself with the possibility of some little easy
discovery  of finding out, perhaps, something
about the cousins whom it seemed certain,
according to Tasie, every one must possess,
whether they were aware of it or not  some
little revelation of origin and connections such
as could do nobody any harm. But when she
woke up suddenly to find herself as it were upon
the edge of a chasm which had split her father's
life in two, the young creature trembled. She
was frightened beyond measure by this unexpected
contingency ; she dared not listen to
another word.

Oh," she said, with a quiver in her voice,
I am afraid I have no time to stop and talk.
Papa will be waiting for his breakfast. I will
tell him you  asked for him."

"Give him our love," said the lady. "Indeed,
George, she is quite right ; we must hurry
too, or we shall be too late for the table d'hdte.''

But I have not got the address," said the
husband. Frances made a little curtsey, as
she had been taught, and waved her hand as
she hurried away. He thought that she had
not understood him. " Adhere do you live ? "
he called after her as she hastened along. She
pointed towards the height of the little town,
and alarmed for she knew not what, lest he
should follow her, lest he should call something
after her which she ought not to hear,
fled along towards the steep ascent. She could
hear the voices behind her slightly elevated
talking to each other, and then the sound of
the children rattling down the stony course of
the higher road, and the quick question and
answer as they rejoined their parents. Then
gradually everything relapsed into silence as
the party disappeared. When she heard the

voices no longer, Frances began to regret that
lie had been so hasty. She paused for a
moment, and looked back; but already the
family were almost out of sight, the solid
figures which led the procession indistinguishable
from the little ones who straggled behind.
Whether it might have been well or ill to take
advantage of the chance, it was now over. She
arrived at the Palazzo out of breath, and found
Domenico at the door, looking out anxiously
for her. " The signorina is late," he said, very
gravely; "the padrone has almost had to wait
for his breakfast." Domenico was quite original,
and did not know that such a terrible
possibility had threatened any illustrious personage
before.

CHAPTEK IV.

It was natural that this occurrence should take
a great hold of the g-irrs mind. It was not the
first time that she had speculated concerning
their life. A life which one has always lived,
indeed, the conditions of which have been
familiar and inevitable since childhood, is nota
matter which awakens questions in the mind.
However extraordinary its conditions may be,
they are natural  they are life to the young
soul which has had no choice in the matter.
Still there are curiosities which will arise.
General Gaunt foamed at the mouth when he
talked of the way in which he had been treated
by the people " at home " ; but still he went
home " in the summer as a matter of course.
And as for the Durants, it was a subject of
the fondest consideration with them when they

could afford themselves that greatest of delights.
They all talked about the cold, the
fogs, the pleasure of getting back to the sunshine
when they returned ; but this made no
difference in the fact that to go home was
their thought all the year, and the most salient
point in their lives. " Why do we never
go home ? " Frances had often asked herself.
And both these families, and all the people
to whom she had ever talked, the strangers
who went and came, and those whom they
met in the. rambles which the Warings, too,
were forced to take in the hot weather, when
the mistral was blowing  talked continually of
their county, of their parish, of their village,
of where they lived, and where they had been
born. But on these points Mr Waring never
said a word. And whereas Mrs Gaunt could
talk of nothing but her family, who were scattered
all over the world, and the Durants met
people they knew at every turn, the Warings
knew nobody, had no relations, no house at
home, and apparently had been born nowhere
in particular, as Frances sometimes said to herself
with more annoyance than humour. Sometimes

she wondered whether she had ever had
a mother.

These thoughts, indeed, occurred but fitfully
now and then, when some incident brought
more forcibly than usual under her notice the
difference between herself and others. She did
not brood over them, her life being quite pleasant
and comfortable to herself, and no necessity
laid upon her to elucidate its witnesses. But
yet they came across her mind from time to
time. She had not been brought face to face
with any old friend of her father's, that she
could remember, until now. She had never
heard any question raised about his past life.
And yet no doubt he had a past life, like every
other man, and there was something in it 
something, she could not guess what, which
had made him unlike other men.

Frances had a great deal of self-command.
She did not betray her agitation to her father ;
she did not ask him any questions ; she told
him about the green grocer and the fisherman,
these two important agents in the life of the
Riviera, and of what she had seen in the
Marina, even the Savona pots ; but she did

not disturb his meal and his digestion by any
reference to the English strangers. She postponed
until she had time to think of it, all
reference to this second meeting. She had by
instinct made no reilly to the question about
where she lived ; but she knew that there would
be no difficulty in discovering that, and that
her father might be subject at any moment to
invasion by this old acquaintance, whom he
had evidently no desire to see. What should
she do? The whole matter wanted thought.
Whether she should ask him what to do ;
whether she should take it upon herself;
whether she should disclose to him her newborn
curiosity and anxiety, or conceal them in
her own bosom ; whether she should tell him
frankly what she felt  that she was worthy to
be trusted, and that it was the right of his
only child to be prepared for all emergencies,
and to be acquainted with her family and her
antecedents, if not with his,  all these were
things to be thought over. Surely she had a
right, if any one had a right. But she would
not stand upon that.

She sat by herself all day and thought, putting

forward all the arguments on either side.
If there was, as there might be, something
wrong in that past  something guilty, which
might make her look on her father with different
eyes, he had a right to be silent, and she
no right, none whatever, to insist upon such
a revelation. And what end would it serve ?
If she had relations or a family from whom
she had been separated, would not the revelation
fill her with eager desire to know them,
and open a fountain of dissatisfaction and discontent
in her life if she were not permitted
to do so ? Would she not chafe at the banishment
if she found out that somewhere there
was a home, that she had " belongings " like
all the rest of the world? These were little
feeble barriers which she set up against the
strong tide of consciousness in her that she
was to be trusted, that she ought to know.
Whatever it was, and however she might bear
it, was it not true that she ought to know ?
She was not a fool or a child. Frances knew
that her eighteen years had brought more experience,
more sense to her, than Tasie's forty ;
that she was capable of understanding, capable

of keeping a secret  and was it not her own
secret, the explanation of the enigma of her life
as well as of his ?

This course of reflection went on in her mind
until the evening, and it was somewhat quickened
by a little conversation which she had in
the afternoon with the servants. Domenico
was going out. It was early in the afternoon,
the moment of leisure, when one meal with all
its responsibilities was over, and the second
great event of the day, the dinner, not yet
imminent. It was the hour when Mariuccia
sat in the ante-room and did her sewing, her
mending, her knitting  whatever was wanted.
This was a large and lofty room  not very
light, with a great window looking out only
into the court of the Palazzo  in which stood
a long table and a few tall chairs. The smaller
ante-room, from which the long suite of rooms
opened on either side, communicated with this,
as did also the corridor, which ran all the
length of the house, and the kitchen and its
appendages on the other side. There is always
abundance of space of this kind in every old
Italian house. Here Mariuccia established her-vol.

I. E

self whenever she was free to leave her cooking
and her kitchen-work. She was a comely
middle-aged woman, with a dark gown, a white
apron, a little shawl on her shoulders, large
earrings, and a gold cross at her neck, which
was a little more visible than is common with
Englishwomen of her class. Her hair was crisp
and cmly, and never had been covered with
anything, save, when she went to church, a
shawl or veil ; and Mariuccia's olive complexion
and ruddy tint feared no encounter of the sun.
Domenico was tall, and spare, and brown, a
grave man with little jest in him ; but his
wife was always ready to laugh. He came
out hat in hand while Frances stood by the
table inspecting Mariuccia's work. "I am
going out," he said ; " and this is the hour
when the English gentlefolks pay visits. See
that thou remember what the padrone said."

What did the padrone say ? " cried Frances,
pricking up her ears.

"Signorina, it was to my wife I was speaking,"
said Domenico.

"That I understand; but I wish to know as well.
Was papa expecting a visit? What did he say?"

"The padrone himself will tell the signorina,"
said Domenico, " all that is intended for her.
Some things are for the servants, some for the
family ; Mariuccia knows what I mean."

"You are an ass, 'Menico," said his wife,
calmly. " Why shouldn't the dear child know ?
It is nothing to be concerned about, my soul
only that the padrone does not receive, and
again that he does not receive, and that he
never receives. I must repeat this till the
Ave Maria, if necessary, till the strangers
accept it and go away."

"Are these special orders?" said Frances,
or has it always been so ? I don't think that
it has always been so."

Domenico had gone out while his wife was
speaking, with a half-threatening and wholly
disapproving look, as if he would not involve
himself in the responsibility which Mariuccia
had taken upon her.

Carina, don't trouble yourself about it. It
has always been so in the spirit, if not in the
letter," said Mariuccia. "Figure to yourself
Domenico or me letting in any one, any one
that chose to come, to disturb the signer padrone

! That would be impossible. It appears,
however, that there is some one down there in
the hotels to whom the padrone has a great
objection, greater than to the others. It is no
secret, nothing to trouble you. But 'Menico,
though he is a good man, is not very wise.
Che! you know that as well as I."

''And what will you do if this gentleman will
not pay any attention  if he comes in all the
same? The English don't understand what it
means when you say you do not receive. You
must say he is not in ; he has gone out ; he is
not at home."

Che ! he ! he ! " cried Mariuccia ; " little
deceiver ! But that would be a lie."

Frances shook her head. " Yes ; I suppose
so," she said, with a troubled look ; " but if you
don't say it, the Englishman will come in all
the same."

He will come in, then, over my body," cried
Mariuccia with a cheerful laugh, standing square
and solid against the door.

This gave the last impulse to Frances'
thoughts. She could not go on with her
study of the palms. She sat with her pencil

in her hand, and the colour growing dry,
thinking all the afternoon through. It was
very certain, then, that her father would not
expose himself to another meeting with the
strangers who called themselves his friends 
innocent people who would not harm any one,
Frances was sure. They were tourists  that
was evident ; and they might be vulgar  that
was possible. But she was sure that there was
no harm in them. It could only be that her
father was resolute to shut out his past, and let
no one know what had been. This gave her
an additional impulse, instead of discouragement.
If it was so serious, and he so determined,
then surely there must be something
that she, his only child, ought to know. She
waited till the evening with a gradually growing
excitement ; but not until after dinner,
after the soothing cigarette, which he puffed so
slowly and luxuriously in the loggia, did she
venture to speak. Then the day was over. It
could not put him out, or spoil his appetite,
or risk his digestion. To be sure, it might
interfere with his sleep ; but after consideration,
Frances did not think that a very

serious matter, probably because she had never
known what it was to pass a wakeful night.
She began, however, with the greatest caution
and care.

Papa," she said, " I want to consult you
about something Tasie was saying."

'' Ah ! that must be something very serious,
no doubt."

Not serious, perhaps ; but she wants

to teach me to play."

"To play! What? Croquet? or whist, perhaps
? I have always heard she was excellent
at both."

' These are games, papa," said Frances, with
a touch of severity. "She means the piano,
which is very different."

'* Ah ! " said Mr Waring, taking the cigarette
from his lips and sending a larger duff of smoke
into the dim air ; " very different indeed,
Frances. It is anything but a game to hear
Miss Tasie play."

She says," continued Frances, with a certain
constriction in her throat, " that every
lady is expected to play  to play a little at
least, even if she has not much taste for it.

She thinks when we go home  that all our
relations will be so surprised "

She stopped, having no breath to go further,
and watched as well as she could, through the
dimness and through the mist of agitation in
her own eyes, her father's face. He made no
sign ; he did not disturb even the easy balance
of his foot, stretched out along the pavement.
After another pause, he said in the same indifferent
tone, "As we are not going home, and
as you have no relations in particular, I don't
think your friend's argument is very strong.
Do you?"

papa, I don't want indeed to be inquisitive
or trouble you, but I should like to
know ! "

What ? " he said, with the same composure.
If I think that a lady, whether she has any
musical taste or not, ought to play ? Well, that
is a very simple question. I don't, whatever
Miss Tasie may say."

'rit is not that," Frances said, regaining a
little control of herself " I said I did not
know of any relations we had. But Tasie
said there must be cousins ; we must have

cousins  everybody has cousins. That is true,
is it not ? "

In most cases, certainly," Mr Waring said ;
and a great nuisance too."

I don't think it would be a nuisance to have
people about one's own age, belonging to one 
not strangers  people who were interested in
you, to whom you could say anything. Brothers
and sisters, that would be the best ; but cousins
I think, papa, cousins would be very nice."

I will tell you, if you like, of one cousin you
have," her father said.

The heart of Frances swelled as if it would
leap out of her breast. She put her hands
together, turning full round upon him in an
attitude of supplication and delight. "
papa ! " she cried with enthusiasm, breathless
for his next word.

Certainly, if you wish it, Frances. He is in
reality your first-cousin. He is fifty. He is a
great sufferer from gout. He has lived so well
in the early part of his life, that he is condemned
to slops now, and spends most of his time in an
easy-chair. He has the temper of a demon, and
swears at everybody that comes near him. He

is very red in the face, very bleared about the
eyes, very "

papa ! " she cried, in a very different tone.
She was so much disappointed, that the sudden
downfall had almost a physical effect upon her,
as if she had fallen from a height. Her father
laughed softly while she gathered all her strength
together to regain command of herself, and the
laugh had a jarring effect upon her nerves, of
which she had never been conscious till now.

I don't suppose that he would care much
whether you played the piano or not ; or that
you would care much, my dear, what he
thought."

For all that, papa," said Frances, recovering
herself, "it is a little interesting to know there
is somebody, even if he is not at all what one
thought. Where does he live, and what is his
name ? That will give me one little landmark
in England, where there is none now."

"Not a very reasonable satisfaction," said her
father lazily, but without any other reply. " In
my life, I have always found relations a nuisance.
Happy are they who have none ; and next best
is to cast them off and do without them. Asa

matter of fact, it is every one for himself in
this world."

Frances was silenced, though not convinced.
She looked with some anxiety at the outline of
her father's spare and lengthy figure laid out in
the basket-chair, one foot moving slightly, which
was a habit he had, the whole extended in perfect
rest and calm. He was not angry, he was
not disturbed. The questions which she had
put with so much mental perturbation had not
affected him at all. She felt that she might
dare further without fear.

When I was out to-day," she said, faltering
a little, " I met  that gentleman again."

"Ah!" said Mr Waring  no more; but he
ceased to shake his foot, and turned towards
her the merest hair's-breadth, so little that it
was impossible to say he had moved, and yet
there was a change.

"And the lady," said Frances, breathless.
I am sure they wanted to be kind. They
asked me a great many questions."

He gave a faint laugh, but it was not without
a little quiver in it. " What a good thing
that you could not answer them ! " he said.

Do you think so, papa ? I was rather unhappy.
It looked as if you could not trust me.
I should have been ashamed to say I did not
know ; which is the truth  for I know nothing,
not so much as where I was born ! " cried the
girl. "It is very humiliating, when you are
asked about your own father, to say you don't
know. So I said it was time for breakfast, and
you would be waiting ; and ran away."

"The best thing you could have done, my
dear. Discretion in a woman, or a girl, is
always the better part of valour. I think you
got out of it very cleverly," Mr Waring said.

And that was all. He did not seem to think
another word was needed. He did not even
rise and go away, as Frances had known him
to do when the conversation was not to his
mind. She could not see his face, but his
attitude was unchanged. He had recovered
his calm, if there had ever been any disturbance
of it. But as for Frances, her heart was
thumping against her breast, her pulses beating
in her ears, her lips parched and dry. " I
wish," she cried, "oh, I wish you would tell
me something, papa ! Do you think I would

talk of things you don't want talked about ? I
am not a child any longer ; and I am not silly,
as perhaps you think."

On the contrary, my dear," said Mr Waring,
I think you are often very sensible."

'' Papa ! oh, how can you say that, how can
you say such things  and then leave me as if I
were a baby, knowing nothing ! "

My dear," he said (with the sound of a smile
in his voice, she thought to herself), " you are
very hard to please. Must not I say that you
are sensible ? I think it is the highest compliment
I can pay you."

papa ! " Disappointment, and mortification,
and the keen sense of being fooled, which
is so miserable to the young, took her very
breath away. The exasperation with which we
discover that not only is no explanation, no
confidence to be given us, but the very occasion
for it ignored, and our anxiety baffled by a
smile  a mortification to which women are so
often subject  flooded her being. She had herd
ado not to burst into angry tears, not to betray
the sense of cruelty and injustice which overwhelmed
her ; but who could have seen any

injustice or cruelty in the gentleness of his tone,
his soft reply ? Frances subdued herself as best
she could in her dark corner of the loggia, glad
at least that he could not see the spasm that
passed over her, the acute misery and irritation
of her spirit. It would be strange if he did not
divine something of what was going on within
her : but he took no notice. He began in the
same tone, as if one theme was quite as important
as the other, to remark upon the unusual heaviness
of the clouds which hid the moon. ''If we
were in England, I should say there was a storm
brewing," he said. "Even here, I think we
shall have some rain. Don't you feel that little
creep in the air, something sinister, as if there
was a bad angel about ? And Domenico, I see,
has brought the lamp. I vote we go in."

Are there any bad angels ? " she cried, to
give her impatience vent.

He had risen up, and stood swaying indolently
from one foot to the other. " Bad angels ? Oh
yc," he said ; " abundance ; very different from
devils, who arc honest  like the fiends in the
pictures, unmistakable. The others, you know,
deceive. Don't you remember ? 

How there looked him in the face
An angel beautiful and bright ;
And how he knew it was a fiend,
That miserable knight.' "

He turned and went into the alone, repeating
these words in an undertone to himself. But
there was in his face none of the bitterness or
horror with which they must have been said by
one who had ever in his own person made
that discovery. He was quite calm, meditative,
marking with a slight intonation and movement
of his head the cadence of the poetry.

Frances stayed behind in the darkness. She
had not the practice which we acquire in later
life ; she could not hide the excitement which
was still coursing through her veins. She went
to the corner of the loggia which was nearest
the sea, and caught in her face the rush of the
rising breeze, which flung at her the first drops
of the coming rain. A storm on that soft coast
is a welcome break in the monotony of the clear
skies and unchanging calm. After a while her
father called to her that the rain was coming
in, that the windows must be shut ; and she
hurried in, brushing by Domenico, who had
come to close everything up, and who looked

at her reproachfully as she rushed past him.
She came behind her father's chair and leaned
over to kiss him. " I have got a little wet, and
I think I had better go to bed," she said.

"Yes, surely, if you wish it, my dear," said
Mr Waring. Something moist had touched his
forehead, which was too warm to be rain. He
waited politely till she had gone before he wiped
it off. It was the edge of a tear, hot, miserable,
full of anger as well as pain, which had made
that mark upon his high white forehead. It
made him pause for a minute or two in his
reading. " Poor little girl ! " he said, with a
sigh. Perhaps he was not so insensible as he
seemed.

Chapter V.

It is a common impression that happiness and
unhappiness are permanent states of mind, and
that for long tracts of our lives we are under
the continuous sway of one or other of these
conditions. But this is almost always a mistake,
save in the case of grief, which is perhaps
the only emotion which is beyond the reach of
the momentary lightnings and alleviations and
perpetual vicissitudes of life. Death, and the
pangs of separation from those we love, are
permanent, at least for their time ; but in
everything else there is an ebb and flow which
keeps the heart alive. When Frances Waring
told the story of this period of her life, she
represented herself unconsciously as having
been oppressed by the mystery that overshadowed
her, and as having lost all the ease

of lier young life prematurely in a sudden
encounter with shadows unsuspected before.
But as a matter of fact, this was not the case.
She had a bad night  that is, she cried herself
asleep ; but once over the boundary which
divides our waking thoughts from the visions
of the night, she knew no more till the sun
came in and woke her to a very cheerful
morning. It is true that care made several
partially successful assaults upon her that day
and for several days after. But as everything
went on quite calmly and. peacefully, the
impression wore off. The English family found
out, as was inevitable, where Mr Waring lived,
without any difficulty ; and first the father
came, then the mother, and finally the pair
together, to call. Frances, to whom a breach
of decorum or civility was pain unspeakable,
sat trembling and ashamed in the deepest
corner of the loggia, while these kind strangers
encountered Mariuccia at the door. The scene,
as a matter of fact, was rather comic than
tragic, for neither the visitors nor the guardian
of the house possessed any language but their
own; and Mr and Mrs Mannering lead as little
VOL. L F

understanding of the statement that Mr Waring
did not " receive " as Frances had expected.

"But he is in  e in casa  e ix?" said the
worthy Englishman. " Then, my dear, of course
it is only a mistake. When he knows who weare
 when he has our names "

Non riceve oggi" said Mariuccia, setting
her sturdy breadth in the doorway ; " oggi non
riceve il signore " (The master does not receive
to-day).

"But he is in?" repeated the bewildered
good people. They could have understood
"Not at home," which to Mariuccia would have
been simply a lie  with which indeed, had
need been, or could it have done the padrone
any good, she would have burdened her conscience
as lightly as any one. But why, when
it was not in the least necessary?

Thus they played their little game at cross-purposes,
while Frances sat, hot and red with
shame, in her corner, sensible to the bottom
of her heart of the discourtesy, the unkindness,
of turning them from the door. They
were her father's friends ; they claimed to have
stuck by him through thick and thin ; " they

were people who knew about him, and all that
he belonged to, and the conditions of his former
life ; and yet they were turned from his
door !

She did not venture to go out again for some
days, except in the evening, when she knew
that all the strangers were at the inevitable
table d'hote; and it was with a sigh of relief,
yet disappointment, that she heard they had
gone away. Yes, at last they did go away,
angry, no doubt, thinking her father a churl,
and she herself an ignorant rustic, who knew
nothing about good manners. Of course this
was what they must think. Frances heard
those words, '' Non riceve oggi" even in her
dreams. She saw in imagination the astonished
faces of the visitors. " But he will receive
us, if you will only take in our names ; "
and then Mariuccia's steady voice repeating the
well-known phrase. What must they have
thought? That it was an insult  that their
old friend scorned and defied them. What else
could they suppose ?

They departed, however, and Frances got
over it : and everything went on as lcfore ;

her father was just as usual  a sphinx indeed,
more and more hopelessly wrapped up
in silence and mystery, but so natural and
easy and kind in his uncommunicativeness,
with so little appearance of repression or concealment
about him, that it was almost impossible
to retain any feeling of injury or
displeasure. Love is cheated every day in this
way by offenders much more serious, who can
make their dependants happy even while they
are ruining them, and beguile the bitterest
anxiety into forgetfulness and smiles. It was
easy to make Frances forget the sudden access
of wonderment and wounded feeling which had
seized her, even without any special exertion ;
time alone and the calm succession of the days
were enough for that. She resumed her little
picture of the palms, and was very successful 
more than usually so. Mr Waring, who had
hitherto praised her little works as he might
have praised the sampler of a child, was
silenced by this, and took it away with him
into his room, and when he brought it back,
looked at her with more attention than he had
been used to show. " I think," he said, " little

Fan, that you must be growing up," laying his
hand upon her head with a smile.

I am grown up, papa ; I am eighteen," she
said.

At which he laughed softly. " I don't think
much of your eighteen ; but this shows. I
should not wonder, with time and work, if 
you oughtn't be good enough to exhibit at
Mentone  after a while."

Frances had been looking at him with an
expression of almost rapturous expectation.
The poor little countenance fell at this, and a
quick sting of mortification brought tears to
her eyes. The exhibition at Mentone was an
exhibition of amateurs. Tasie was in it, and
even Mrs Gaunt, and all the people about whoever
spoilt a piece of harmless paper. "
jDapa ! " she said. Since the failure of her late
appeal to him, this was the only formula of
reproach which she used.

"Well," he said, 'rare you more ambitious
than that, you little thing ? Perhaps, by-and-by,
you may be fit even for better things."

It is beautiful," said Mariuccia. " You see
where the light goes, and where it is in the

shade. But, carina, if you were to copy the
face of Domenico, or even mine, that would be
more interesting. The palms we can see if we
look out of the window ; but imagine to yourself
that 'Menico might go away, or even might
die ; and we should not miss him so much if
we had his face hung up upon the wall."

* It is easier to do the trees than to do
Domenico," said Frances; "they standstill."

'rand so would 'Menico stand still, if it was
to please the signorina  he is not very well
educated, but he knows enough for that ; or
I myself, though you will think, perhaps, I am
too old to make a pretty picture. But if I
had my veil on, and my best earrings, and the
coral my mother left me "

"You look very nice, Mariuccia  I like you
as you are ; but I am not clever enough to
make a portrait." 

Mariuccia cried out with scorn. "You are
clever enough to do whatever you wish to do,"
she said. " The padrone thinks so too, though
he will not say it. Not clever enough !
Magari ! too clever is what you mean."

Frances set up her palms on a little stand of

carved wood, and was very well pleased with
herself; but that sentiment palls perhaps
sooner than any other. It was very agreeable
to be praised, and also it was pleasant to feel
that she had finished her work successfully.
But after a short time it began to be a great
subject of regret that the work was done. She
did not know what to do next. To make a
portrait of Domenico was above her powers.
She idled about for the day, and found it
uncomfortable. That is the moment in which
it is most desirable to have a friend on whom
to bestow one's tediousness. She bethought
herself that she had not seen Tasie for a week.
It was now more than a fortnight since the
events detailed in the beginning of this history.
Her father, when asked if he would not like a
walk, declined. It was too warm, or too cold,
or perhaps too dusty, which was very true ; and
accordingly she set out alone.

Walking down through the Marina, the little
tourist town which was rising upon the shore,
she saw some parties of travellers arriving,
which always had been a little pleasure to her.
It was mingled now with a certain excitement.

Perhaps some of them, like those who had just
gone away, might know all about her, more than
she knew herself  what a strange thought it
was !  some of those unknown people in their
travelling cloaks, which looked so much too
warm  people whom she had never seen before,
who had not a notion that she was Frances
Waring ! One of the parties was composed of
ladies, surrounded and enveloped, so to speak,
by a venerable courier, who sAvept them and
their possessions before him into the hotel.
Another was led by a father and mother, not
at all unlike the pair who had "stuck by" Mr
Waring. How strange to imagine that they
might not be strangers at all, but people who
knew all about her !

In the first group was a girl, who hung back
a little from the rest, and looked curiously up at
all the houses, as if looking for some one  a tall,
fair-haired girl, with a blue veil tied over her
hat. She looked tired, but eager, with more interest
in her face than any of the others showed.
Frances smiled to herself with the half-superiority
which a resident is apt to feel : a girl must
be very simple indeed, if she thought the houses

Oil the Marina worth looking at, Frances thought.
But she did not pause in her quick walk. The
Durants lived at the other end of the Marina,
in a little villa built upon a terrace over an olive
garden  a low house with no particular beauty,
but possessing also a loggia turned to the west,
the luxury of building on the Eiviera. Here
the whole family were seated, the old clergyman
with a large English newspaper, which he
was reading deliberately from end to end ; his
wife with a work-basket full of articles to mend ;
and Tasie at the little tea-table, pouring out the
tea. Frances was received with a little clamour
of satisfaction, for she was a favourite.

Sit here, my dear." " Come this way, close
to me, for you know I am getting a little hard
of hearing."

They had always been kind to her, but never,
she thought, had she been received with so much
cordiality as now.

Have you come by yourself, Frances ? and
along the Marina ? I think you should make
Domenico or his wife walk with you, when you
go through the Marina, my dear."

"Why, Mrs Durant ? I have always done it.

Even Mariuccia says it does not matter, as I aman
English girl."

Ah, that may be true ; but English girls are
not like American girls. I assure you they are
taken a great deal more care of. If you ever
go home " /

"And how is your poor father to-day,
Frances ? " said Mrs Durant.

Oh, papa is very well. He is not such a
poor father. There is nothing the matter with
him. At least, there is nothing nev the matter
with him," said Frances, with a little impatience.

No," said the clergyman, looking up over
the top of his spectacles and shaking his head.
Nothing neu the matter with him. I believe
that."

If you ever go home," resumed Mrs

Durant ; " and of course some time you will go
home "

'' I think very likely I never shall," said the
girl. " Papa never talks of going home. He
says home is here."

"That is all very well for the present moment,
my dear; but I feel sure, for my part,
that one time or other it will happen as I say ;

and then you must not let them suppose you
have been a little savage, going about as you
liked here."

I don't think any one would care much, Mrs
Durant ; and I am not going ; so you need not
be afraid."

"Your poor father," Mr Durant went on in
his turn, " has a great deal of self-command,
Frances ; he has a great deal of self-control. In
some ways, that is an excellent quality, but it
may be carried too far. I wish very much he
would allow me to come and have a talk with
him  not as a clergyman, but just in a friendly
way."

I am quite sure you may come and talk with
him as much as you like," said Frances, astonished
; " or if you want very much to see him,
he will come to you."

Oh, I should not take it upon me to ask
that  in the meantime," Mr Durant said.

The girl stared a little, but asked no further
questions. There was something among them
which she did not understand  a look of curiosity,
an air of meaning more than their words
said. The Durants were always a little apt to be

didactic, as became a clergyman's family ; but
Tasie was generally a safe refuge. Frances turned
to her with a little sigh of perplexity, hoping to
escape further question. "Was the Sunday-school
as large last Sunday, Tasie?" she said.

Oh, Frances, no ! Such a disappointment !
There were only four ! Isn't it a pity ? But
you see the little Mannerings have all gone
away. Such sweet children ! and the little one
of all has such a voice. They are perhaps coming
back for Easter, if they don't stay at Some ;
and if so, I think we must put little Herbert ina
white surplice  he will look like an angel 
and have a real anthem with a soprano solo, for
once."

I doubt if they will all come back," said Mr
Durant. "Mr Mannering himself indeed, I
don't doubt, 07i business ; but as for the family,
you must not flatter yourself, Tasie."

'she liked the place," said his wife; "and
very likely she would think it her duty, if anything
is to come of it, you know."

Be careful," said the clergyman, with a
glance aside, which Frances would have been
dull indeed not to have perceived was directed

at herself. " Don't say anything that may be
premature."

Frances was brave in her way. She felt, with
a little rising excitement, that her friends were
bursting with some piece of knowledge which
they were longing to communicate. It roused
in her an impatience and reluctance mingled
with keen curiosity. She would not hear it,
and yet was breathless with impatience to know
what it was.

Mr Mannering ? " she said, deliberately 
that was the gentleman that knew papa."

"You saw him, then?" cried Mrs Durant.
There was something like a faint disappointment
in her tone.

He was one of papa's early friends," said
Frances, with a little emphasis. " I saw him
twice. He and his wife both ; they seemed kind
people."

Mr Durant and his wife looked at each other,
and even Tasie stared over her teacups. " Oh,
very kind people, my dear ; I don't think you
could do better than have full confidence in
them," Mrs Durant said.

And your poor father could not have a truer

friend," said the old clergyman. "You must
tell him I am coming to have a talk with him
about it. It was a great revelation, but I hope
that everything will turn out for the best."

Frances grew redder and redder as she sat a
mark for all their arrows. What was it that
was a "revelation"? But she would not ask.
She began to be angry, and to say to herself
that she would put her hands to her ears, that
she would listen to nothing.

"Hey !" said Mrs Durant, "who is it that
is premature now ? "

I am afraid I can't stay," said Frances, rising
quickly from her chair. " I have something
to do for Mariuccia. I only came in because 
because I was passing. Never mind, Tasie ; I
know my way so well ; and Mr Durant wants
some more tea."

Oh but, Frances, my dear, you really must
let me send some one with you. You must not
move about in that independent way."

And we had a great many things to say to
you," said the old clergyman, keeping her hand
in his. " Are you really in such a hurry ? It
wdll be better for yourself to wait a little.

and hear something that will be for your
good."

It cannot be any worse for me to run about
to-day than any other day," said Frances, almost
sternly ; '' and whatever there is to hear, won't
tomorrow do just as well ? I think it is a little
funny of you all to speak to me so ; but now I
must go."

She was so rapid in her movements that she
was gone before Tasie could extricate herself
from the somewhat crazy little table. And then
they all three looked at each other and shook
their heads. "Do sou think she can know ? "
"Can she have known it all the time?" "Has
Waring told her, or was it Mannering ? " they
said to each other.

Frances could not hear their mutual questions,
but something very like the purport of
them got into her agitated brain. She felt sure
they were wondering whether she knew  what ?
this revelation, this something which they had
found out. Nothing would make her submit
to hear it from them, she said to herself. But
the moment was come when she could not be
put off any longer She would go to her father.

and she would not rest until she was informed
what it Alas.

She hastened along, avoiding the Marina,
which had amused her on her way, hurrying
from terrace to terrace of the olive groves.
Her heart was beating fast, and her rapid pace
made it faster. But as she thought of her
father's unperturbed looks, the calm with which
he had received her eager questions, and the
very small likelihood that anything she could
say about the hints of the Durants would move
him, her pace and her excitement both decreased.
She went more slowly, less hopefully,
back to the Palazzo. It was all very well to
say that she must know. But what if he would
not tell her? What if he received her questions
as he had received them before ? The
circumstances were not changed, nor was he
changed because the Durants knew something,
she did not know what. Oh, what a poor piece
of friendship was that, that betrayed a friend's
secret to his neighbours ! She did not know,
she could not so much as form a guess, what
the secret was. But little or great, his friend
should have kept it. She said this to herself

bitterly, when the chill probabilities of the case
began to make themselves felt. It was harder
to think that the Durants knew, than to be
kept in darkness herself.

She went in at last very soberly, with the
intention of telling her father all that had
passed, if perhaps that of itself might be an
inducement to him to have confidence in her.
It was not a pleasant mission. Her steps had
become very sober as she went up the long
marble stair. Mariuccia met her with a little
cry. Had she not met the padrone ? He had
gone out down through the olive woods to
meet her and fetch her home. It was a brief
reprieve. In the evening after dinner was the
time when he was most accessible. Frances,
with a thrill of mingled relief and disappointment,
retired to her room to make her little
toilet. She had an hour or two at least before
her ere it would be necessary to speak.

VOL. I. G

CHAPTER VI.

When one has made up one's mind to reopen
a painful subject after dinner, the preliminary
meal is not usually a very pleasant one ; nor,
with the tremor of preparation in one's mind,
is one likely to make a satisfactory dinner.
Frances could not talk about anything. She
could not eat ; her mind was absorbed in what
was coming. It seemed to her that she must
speak : and yet how gladly would she have
escaped from or postponed the explanation !
Explanation ! Possibly he would only smile
and bafEe her as he had done before ; or perhaps
be angry, which would be better. Anything
would be better than that indifference.
She went out to the loggia when dinner was
over, trembling with the sensation of suspense.
It was still not dark, and the night was clear

with the young moon already shining, so that
between the retiring day and the light of the
night it was almost as clear as it had been two
hours before. Frances sat down, shivering a
little, though not with cold. Usually her
father accompanied or immediately followed
her, but by some perversity he did not do
so to-night. She seated herself in her usual
place, and waited, listening for every sound 
that is, for sounds of one kind  his slow step
coming along the polished floor, here soft and
muffled over a piece of carpet, there loud upon
the parquet. But for some time, during which
she rose into a state of feverish expectation,
there was no such sound.

It was nearly half an hour, according to her
calculation, probably not half so much by common
computation of time, when one or two
doors were opened and shut quickly and a
sound of voices met her ear  not sounds, however,
which had any but a partial interest for
her, for they did not indicate his approach.
After a while there followed the sound of a
footstep but it was not Mr Waring's ; it was
not Domenico's subdued tread, nor the measured

march of Mariuccia. It was light, quick, and
somewhat uncertain. Frances was half disappointed,
half relieved. Some one was coming,
but not her father. It would be impossible
to speak to him to-night. The relief was
uppermost ; she felt it through her whole being.
Not to-night; and no one can ever tell what
tomorrow may bring forth. She looked up no
longer with anxiety, but curiosity, as the door
opened. It opened quickly ; some one looked
out, as if to see what was beyond, then, with a
slight exclamation of satisfaction, stepped out
upon the loggia into the partial light.

Frances rose up quickly, with the curious
sensation of acting over something which she
had rehearsed before, she did not know where
or how. It was the girl whom she had remarked
on the Marina as having just arrived
who now stood looking about her curiously,
with her travelling-cloak fastened only at the
throat, her gauze veil thrown up about her
hat. This new-comer came in quickly, not
with the timidity of a stranger. She came out
into the centre of the loggia, where the light
fell fully around her, and showed her tall slight

figure, the fair hair clustering in Lier neck, a
certain languid grace of movement, which her
energetic entrance curiously belied. Frances
waited for some form of apology or self-introduction,
prepared to be very civil, and feeling
in reality pleased and almost grateful for the
interruption.

But the young lady made no explanation. She
put her hands up to her throat and loosed her
cloak with a little sigh of relief. She undid the
veil from her hat. " Thank heaven, I have got
here at last, free of those people ! " she said,
putting herself sans wagon into Mr Waring's
chair, and laying her hat upon the little table.
Then she looked up at the astonished girl, who
stood looking on.

Are you Frances ? " she said ; but the
question was put in an almost indifferent
tone.

Yes; I am Frances. But I don't know "

Frances was civil to the bottom of her soul,
polite, incapable of hurting any one's feelings.
She could not say anything disagreeable ; she
could not demand brutally, Who are you ? and
what do you want here ?

I thought so," said the stranger ; " and,
oddly enough, I saw you this afternoon, and
wondered if it could be you. You are a little
like mamma.  I am Constance, of course," she
added, looking up with a half-smile. "We
ought to kiss each other, I suppose, though we
can t care much about each other, can we ? 
Where is papa ? "

Frances had no breath to speak ; she could
not say a word. She looked at the new-comer
with a gasp. Who was she ? And who was
papa ? Was it some strange mistake which had
brought her here ? But then the question,
"Are you Frances?" showed that it could not
be a mistake.

''I beg your pardon," she said; "I don't
understand. This is  Mr AVaring's. You are
looking for  your father ? "

Yes, yes," cried the other impatiently ; "I
know. You can't imagine I should have come
here and taken possession if I had not made
sure first ! You are well enough known in this
little place. There was no trouble about it. 
And the house looks nice, and this must be a
fine view when there is light to see it by.  But

where is papa ? They told me he was always
to be found at this hour."

Frances felt the blood ebb to her very finger-points,
and then rush back like a great flood
upon her heart. She scarcely knew where she
was standing or what she was saying in her
great bewilderment. "Do you mean  my
father ? " she said.

The other girl answered with a laugh : " You
are very particular. I mean our father, if you
prefer it. Your father  my father. What does
it matter ?  Where is he ? Why isn't he here ?
It seems he must introduce us to each other. I
did not think of any such formality. I thought
you would have taken me for granted," she said.

Frances stood thunderstruck, gazing, listening,
as if eyes and ears alike fooled her. She
did not seem to know the meaning of the words.
They could not, she said to herself, mean what
they seemed to mean  it was impossible. There
must be some wonderful, altogether unspeakable
blunder. " I don't understand," she said again,
in a piteous tone. '' It must be some mistake."

The other girl fixed her eyes upon her in the
waning light. She had not paid so much attention

to Frances at first as to the new place and
scene. She looked at her now with the air of
weighing her in some unseen balance and finding
her wanting, with impatience and half contempt.
" I thought you would have been glad
to see me," she said ; " but the world seems just
the same in one place as another. Because I
am in distress at home you don't want me
here."

Then Frances felt herself goaded, galled into
the matter-of-fact question, "Who are you?"
though she felt that she would not believe the
answer she received.

Who am I ? Don't you know who I am ?
Who should I be but Con ? Constance Waring,
your sister ?  Where," she cried, springing to
her feet and stamping one of them upon the
ground  " where, inhere is papa ? "

The door opened again behind her softly, and
Mr Waring with his slow step came out. " Did
I hear some one calling for me ? " he said. 
*' Frances, it is not you, surely, that are quarrelling
with your visitor?  I beg the lady's
pardon ; I cannot see who it is."

The stranger turned upon him with impatience

in her tone. " It was I who called," she
said. " I thought you were sure to be here.
Papa, I have always heard that you were kind
a kind man, they all said ; that was why I

came, thinking I am Constance ! " she added

after a pause, drawing herself up and facing him
with something of his own gesture and attitude.
She was tall, not much less than he was ; very
unlike little Frances. Her slight figure seemed
to draw out as she raised her head and looked
at him. She was not a suppliant. Her whole
air was one of indignation that she should be
subjected to a moment's doubt.

Constance ! " said Mr Waring. The daylight
was gone outside ; the moon had got behind
a fleecy white cloud ; behind those two
figures there was a gleam of light from within,
Domenico having brought in the lamp into the
drawing-room. He stepped backward, opening
the glass door. " Come in," he said, " to the
light."

Frances came last, with a great commotion in
her heart, but very still externally. She felt
herself to have sunk into quite a subordinate
place. The other two, they were the chief

figures. She had now no explanation to ask, no
questions to put, though she had a thousand ;
but everything else was thrown into the background,
everything was inferior to this. The
chief interest was with the others now.

Constance stepped in after him with a proud
freedom of step, the air of one who was mistress
of herself and her fate. She went up to the
table on which the tall lamp stood, her face on
a level with it, fully lighted up by it. She held
her hat in her hand, and played with it with a
careless yet half-nervous gesture. Her fair hair
was short, and clustered in her neck and about
her forehead almost like a child's, though she
was not like a child. Mr Waring, looking at
her, was more agitated than she. He trembled
a little ; his eyelids were lifted high over his
eyes. Her air was a little defiant ; but there
was no suspicion, only a little uncertainty in
his. He put out his hand to her after a minute's
inspection. '' If you are Constance, you
are welcome," he said.

I don't suppose that you have any doubt I
am Constance," said the girl, flinging her hat
on the table and herself into a chair. "It is

a very curious way to receive one, though,
after such a long journey  such a tiresome
long journey," she repeated, with a voice into
which a querulous tone of exhaustion had come.

Mr Waring sat down too in the immediate
centre of the light. He had not kissed her nor
approached her, save by the momentary touch
of their hands. It was a curious way to receive
a stranger, a daughter. She lay back in
her chair as if wearied out, and tears came to
her eyes. " I should not have come, if I had
known," she said, with her lip quivering. " I
am very tired. I put up with everything on

the journey, thinking, when I came here

And I am more a stranger here than anywhere
! " She paused, choking with the half-hysterical
fit of crying which she would not
allow to overcome her. "She  knows nothing;
about me ! " she cried, with a sharp accent of
pain, as if this was the last blow.

Frances, in her bewilderment, did not know
what to do or say. She looked at her father,
but his face was dumb, and crave her no suggestion
; and then she looked at the new-comer,
who lay lack with her head against the back

of the clair, her eyes closed, tears forcing their
way through her eyelashes, her slender whitethroat
convulsively struggling with a sob. The
mind of Frances had been shaken by a sudden
storm of feelings unaccustomed ; a throb of
something which she did not understand, which
was jealousy, though she neither knew nor intended
it, had gone through her being. She
seemed to see herself cast forth from her easy
supremacy, her sway over her father's house,
deposed from her principal place. And she
was only human. Already she was conscious
of a downfall. Constance had drawn the interest
towards herself  it was she to whom
every eye would turn. The girl stood apart
for a moment, with that inevitable movement
which has been in the bosom of so many since
the well-behaved brother of the Prodigal put
it in words, " Now that this thy son has
come." Constance, so far as Frances knew,
was no prodigal ; but she was what was almost
worse  a stranger, and yet the honours of the
house were to be hers. She stood thus, looking
on, until the sight of the suppressed sob,
of the closed eyes, of the weary, hopeless attitude,

were too much for her. Then it came
suddenly into her mind, if she is Constance !
Frances had not known half an hour before
that there was any Constance who had a right
to her sympathy in the world. She gave her
father another questioning look, but got no
reply from his eyes. Whatever had to be
done must be done by herself. She went upto
the chair in which her sister lay and touched
her on the shoulder. " If we had known you
were coming," she said, "it would have been
different. It is a little your fault not to let
us know. I should have gone to meet you ;
I should have made your room ready. We
have nothing ready, because we did not know."
Constance sat suddenly up in her chair and
shook her head, as if to shake off the emotion
that hid been too much for her. "How sensible
you are ! " she said. " Is that your character
?  She is quite right, isn't she ? But I
did not think of that. I suppose I am impetuous,
as people say. I was unhappy, and I
thought you would  receive me with open
arms. It is evident / am not the sensible
one." She said this with still a quiver in her

lip, but also a smile, pushing back her chair,
and resuming the unconcerned air which she
had worn at first.

*' Frances is quite right. You ought to have
written and warned us," said Mr Waring.

Oh yes ; there are so many things that one
ought to do."

"But we will do the best we can for you,
now you are here. Mariuccia will easily make
a room ready. Where is your baggage ? Domenico
can go to the railway, to the hotel,
wherever you have come from."

*'My box is outside the door. I made them
bring it. The woman  is that Mariuccia? 
would not take it in. But she let me come
in. She was not suspicious. She did not 'say,
If you are Constance.' " And here she laughed,
with a sound that grated upon Mr Waring's
nerves. He jumped up suddenly from his
chair.

I had no proof that you were Constance,"
he said, " though I believed it. But only your
mother's daughter could reproduce that laugh."

'has Frances got it?" the girl cried, with
an instant lighting up of opposition in her

eyes; *for I am like you, but she is the
image of mamma."

He turned round and looked at Frances, who,
feeling that an entire circle of new emotions,
unknown to her, had come into being at a
bound, stood with a passive, frightened look,
spectator of everything, not knowing how to
adapt herself to the new turn of affairs.

"By Jove!" her father said, with an air of
exasperation she had never seen in him before,
"that is true! But I had never noticed it.
Even Frances. You've come to set us all by
the ears."

"Oh no ! I'll tell you, if you like, why I
came. Mamma  has been more aggravating
than usual. I said to myself you would be
sure to understand what that meant. And
something arose  I will tell you about it after
a complication, something that mamma insisted
I should do, though I had made ujj my
mind not to do it."

"You had better," said her father, with a
smile, " take care what ideas on that subject
you put into your sisters head."

Constance paused, and looked at Frances with

a look which was half scrutinising, half contemptuous.
" Oh, she is not like me," she said.
"Mamma was very aggravating, as you know

she can be. She wanted me But I'll tell

you after." And then she began : "I hope,
because you live in Italy, papa, you don't
think you ought to be a medieval parent ; but
that sort of thing in Belgravia, you know, is
too ridiculous. It was so out of the question
that it was some time before I understood. It
was not exactly a case of being locked up in my
room and kept on bread and water ; but something
of the sort. I was so much astonished
at first, I did not know what to do ; and then
it became intolerable. I had nobody I could
appeal to, for everybody agreed with her.
Markham is generally a safe person ; but even
Markham took her side. So I immediately
thought of you. I said to myself. One's
father is the right person to protect one. And
I knew, of course, that if anybody in the world
could understand how impossible it is to live
with mamma when she has taken a thing into
her head, it would be you."

Waring kept his eye upon Frances while this

was being said, with an almost comic embarrassment.
It was half laughable ; but it was
painful, as so many laughable things are ; and
there was something like alarm, or rather timidity,
in the look. The man looked afraid of
the little girl  whom all her life he had treated
as a child  and her clear sensible eyes.

One thinks these things, perhaps, but one
does not put them into words," he said.

"Oh, it is no worse to say them than to
think them," said Constance. " I always say
what I mean. And you must know that things
went very far  so far that I couldn't put up
with it any longer ; so I made up my mind all
at once that I would come off to you."

And I tell you, you are welcome, my dear.
It is so long since I saw you that I could not
have recognised you. That is natural enough.
But now that you are here  I cannot decide
upon the wisdom of the step till I know all
the circumstances "

Oh, wisdom ! I don't suppose there is any
wisdom about it. No one expects wisdom from
me. But what could I do ? There was nothing
else that I could do."

VOL. I. H

"At all events," said Waring, with a little
inclination of his head and a smile, as if he
were talking to a visitor, Frances said to herself
 "Frances and I will forgive any lack of
wisdom which has given us  this pleasure."
He laughed at himself as he spoke. "You
must expect for a time to feel like a fine lady
paying a visit to her poor relations," he said.

Oh, I know you will approve of me when
you hear everything. Mamma says I am a
Waring all over, your own child."

The sensations with which Frances stood and
listened, it would be impossible to describe.
Mamma! who was this, of whom the other
girl spoke so lightly, whom she had never heard
of before? Alas it possible that a mother as
well as a sister existed for her, as for others,
in the unknown world out of which Constance
had come ? A hundred questions were on her
lips, but she controlled herself, and asked none
of them. Reflection, which comes so often
slowly, almost painfully, to her came now like
the flash of lightning. She would not betray
to any one, not even to Constance, that she
had never known she had a mother. Papa

might be wrong  oh, how wrong he had been !
but she would not betray him. She checked
the exclamation on her lips ; she subdued her
soul altogether, forcing it into silence. This
was the secret she had been so anxious to
penetrate, which he had kept so closely from
her. Why should he have kept it from her?
It was evident it had not been kept on the other
side. Whatever had happened, had Frances
been in trouble, she knew of no one with
whom she could have taken refuge ; but her
sister had known. Her brain was made dizzy
by these thoughts. It was open to her now
to ask whatever she pleased. The mystery
had been made plain ; but at the same time
her mouth was stopped. She would not confuse
her father, nor betray him. It was chiefly
from this bewildering sensation, and not, asher
father, suddenly grown acute in respect
to Frances, thought, from a mortifying consciousness
that Constance would speak with
more freedom if she were not there, that
Frances now spoke. " I think," she said, " that
I had better go and see about the rooms.
Mariuccia will not know what to do till I

come ; and you will take care of Constance,
papa."

He looked at her, hearing in her tone a
wounded feeling, a touch of forlorn pride,
which perhaps was there, but not so much
as he thought ; but it was Constance who
replied : "Oh yes, we will take care of each
other. I have so much to tell him," with a
laugh. Frances was aware that there was reo



lief in it, in the prospect of her own absence,
but she did not feel it so strongly as her father
did. She gave them both a smile, and went
away.

So that is Frances," said the new-found
sister, looking after her. " I find her very
like mamma. But everybody says I am your
child, disposition and all." She rose, and came
up to Waring, who had never lessened the
distance between himself and her. She put
her hand within his arm and held up her face
to him. "I am like you. I shall be much
happier with you. Do you think you will
like having me instead of Frances, father ? "
She clasped his arm against her in a caressing
way, and leant her cheek upon the sleeve of his

velvet coat. " Don't you think you would like
to have me, father, instead of her ? " she said.

A whole panorama of the situation, like a
landscape, suddenly flashed before Waring's
mind. The spell of this caress, and the confidence
she showed of being loved, which is so
great a charm, and the impulse of nature, so
much as that is worth, drew him towards this
handsome stranger, who took possession of him
and his affections without a doubt, and pushed
away the other from his heart and his side with
an impulse which his philosophy said was common
to all men  or at least, if that was too
sweeping, to all women. But in the same moment
came that sense of championship and proprietorship,
the one inextricably mingled with
the other, which makes us all defend our own
whenever assailed. Frances was his own ; she
was his creation ; he had taught her almost
everything. Poor little Frances ! Not like
this girl, who could speak for herself, who could
go everywhere, half commanding, half taking
with guile every heart that she encountered.
Frances would never do that. But she would
be true, true as the heavens themselves, and

never falter. By a sudden gleam of perception
he saw that, though he had never told her
anything of this, though it must have been a
revelation of wonder to her, yet that she had
not burst forth into any outcries of astonishment,
or asked any compromising questions, or
done anything to betray him.

His heart went forth to Frances with an infinite
tenderness. He had not been a doting
father to her ; he had even  being himself what
the world calls a clever man, much above her
mental level  felt himself to condescend a little,
and almost upbraided Heaven for giving him
so ordinary a little girl. And Constance, it
was easy to see, was a brilliant creature, accustomed
to take her place in the world, fit to
be any man's companion. But the first result
of this revelation was to reveal to him, as he
had never seen it before, the modest and true
little soul which had developed by his side
without much notice from him, whom he had
treated with such cruel want of confidence, to
whom the shock of this evening's disclosures
must have been so great, but who, even in the
moment of discovery, shielded him. All this

went through his mind with the utmost rapidity.
He did not put his new-found child away
from him ; but there was less enthusiasm than
Constance expected in the kiss he gave her. "I
am very glad to have you here, my dear," he
said more coldly than pleased her. " But why
instead of Frances ? You will be happier both
of you for being together."

Constance did not disengage herself with any
appearance of disappointment. She perceived,
perhaps, that she was not to be so triumphant
here as was usually her privilege. She relinquished
her father s arm after a minute, not too
precipitately, and returned to her chair. " I
shall like it, as long as it is possible," she said.
'' It will be very nice for me having a father and
sister instead of a mother and brother. But
you will find that mamma will not let you off.
She likes to have a girl in the house. She will
have her pound of flesh." She threw herself
back into her chair with a laugh. " How quaint
it all is ; and how beautiful the view must be,
and the mountains and the sea ! I shall be very
happy here  the world forgetting, by the world
forgot  and with you, papa."

CHAPTER VII.

She lias come to stay," Frances said.

"What?" cried Mariuccia, making the small
monosyllable sound as if it were the biggest
word in her vocabulary.

She has come to stay. She is my sister ;
papa's daughter as much as I am. She has come
home." Frances was a little uncertain about
the word, and it was only "a cast'' that she
said  " to the house," which means the same.

Mariuccia threw i\ her arms in astonishment.
Then there has been another signorina all the
time ! " she cried. " Figure to yourself that I
have been with the padrone a dozen years, and
T never heard of her before."

"Papa does not talk very much about his
concerns," said Frances in her faithfulness.
And what we have got to do is to make her

very comfortable. She is very pretty, don't you
think ? Such beautiful blond hair  and tall.
I never shall be tall, I fear. They say she is
like papa ; but, as is natural, she is much more
beautiful than papa."

"Beauty is as you find it," said Mariuccia.
Carina, no one will ever be so pretty as our
own signorina to Domenico and me.  What is
the child doing ? She is pulling the things off
her own bed.  My angel, you have lost your
good sense. You are fluttered and upset by this
new arrival. The blue room will be very good
for the new young lady. Perhaps she will not
stay ver) long ? "

The wish was father to the thought. But
Frances took no notice of the suggestion. She
said briskly, going on with what she was doing,
She must have my room, Mariuccia. The blue
room is quite nice ; it will do very well for me ;
but I should like her to feel at home, not to
think our house was bare and cold. The blue
room would be rather naked, if we were to
put her there to-night. It will not be naked
for me, for, of course, I am used to it all,
and know everything. But when Constance

wakes tomorrow morning and looks round her,
and wonders where she is  oh, how strange it
all seems !  I wish her to open her eyes upon
things that are pretty, and to say to herself,
What a delightful house papa has ! What a nice
room ! I feel as if I had been here all my life. "

*constans  is that her name? It is rather
a common name  not distinguished, like our
signorina's. But it is very good for her, I have
no doubt. And so you will give her your own
room, that she may be fond of the house, and
stay and supplant you? That is what will
happen. The good one, the one of gold, gets
pushed out of the way. I would not give her
my room to make her love the house."

I think you would, Mariuccia."

No ; I do not think so," said Mariuccia,
squaring herself with one arm akimbo. " No ;
I do not deny that I would probably take some
new things into the blue room, and put up
curtains. But I am older than you are, and I
have more sense. I would not do it. If she
gets your room, she will get your place ; and
she will please everybody, and be admired, and
my angel will be put out of the way."

''I am such a horrid little wretch," said
Frances, " that I thought of that too. It was
mean, oh, so mean of me. She is prettier than
I am, and taller ; and  yes, of course, she must
be older too, so you see it is her right."

Is she the eldest ? " asked Mariuccia.

Frances made a puzzled pause ; but she would
not let the woman divine that she did not know.
* Oh yes ; she must be the eldest.  Come quick,
Mariuccia ; take all these things to the blue
room ; and now for your clean linen and everything
that is nice and sweet."

Mariuccia did what she was told, but with
many objections. She carried on a running
murmur of protest all the time. '' Ashen there
are changes in a family; when it is by the
visitation of God, that is another matter. A
son or a daughter who is in trouble, who has
no other refuge ; that is natural ; there is nothing
to say. But to remain away during a dozen
years, and then to come back at a moment's
notice  nay, without even a moment's notice 
in the evening, when all the beds are made up,
and demand everything that is comfortable.  I
have always thought that there was a great deal

to be said for the poor young ignoring of whom
the priest speaks, he who had always stayed at
home when his brother was amusing himself.
Carina, you know what I mean."

I have thought of that too," said Frances.
But my sister is not a prodigal ; and papa has
never done anything for her. It is all quite
different. When we know each other better,
it will be delightful always to have a companion,
Mariuccia  think how pleasant it will be always
to have a companion. I wonder if she will like
my pictures ?  Now, don't you think the room
looks very pretty ? I always thought it was a
pretty room. Leave the persian open that
she may see the sea ; and in the morning don't
forget to come in and close them before the
sun gets hot.  I think that will do now."

Indeed I hope it will do  after all the
trouble you have taken. And I hope the young
lady is worthy of it.  But, my angel, what shall
I do when I come in to wake her ? Does she
expect that I can talk her language to her ?
No, no. And she will know nothing ; she will
not even be able to say ' Good morning.' "

I hope so. But if not, you must call me

first, that is all," said Frances cheerfully. 
"Now, don't go to bed just yet; perhaps she
will like something  some tea ; or perhaps a

little supper ; or I never asked if she had

dined."

Mariuccia regarded this possibility with equanimity.
She was not afraid of a girl's appetite.
But she made a grimace at the mention of the
tea. 'rit is good when one has a cold ; oh
yes," she said ; " but to drink it at all times,
as you do ! If she wants anything it will bea
great deal better to give her a sir op, or a
little red wine."

Frances detained Mariuccia as long as she
could, and lingered herself still longer after all
was ready in the room. She did not know how
to go back to the drawing-room, where she had
left these two together, to say to each other, no
doubt, many things that could be better said
in her absence. There was no jealousy, only
delicacy, in this ; and she had given up her
pretty room to her sister, and carried her indispensable
belongings to the bare one, with the
purest pleasure in making Constance comfortable.
Constance ! whom an hour ago she had

never heard of, and who now was one of them,
nearer to her than anybody, except her father.
But all this being done, she had the strangest
difficulty in going back, in thrusting herself,
as imagination said, between them, and interrupting
their talk. To think that it should be
such a tremendous matter to return to that
familiar room in which the greater part of her
life had been passed ! It felt like another world
into which she was about to enter, full of unknown
elements and conditions which she did
not understand. She had not known what it
was to be shy in the very limited society she had
ever known ; but she was shy now, feeling as
if she had not courage to put her hand upon
the handle of the door. The familiar creak and
jar of it as it opened seemed to her like noisy
instruments announcing her approach, which
stopped the conversation, as she had divined,
and made her father and her sister look up
with a little start. Frances could have wished
to sink through the floor, to get rid of her own
being altogether, as she saw them both give
this slight start. Constance was leaning upon
the table, the light of the lamp shining full

upon her face, with the air of being in the
midst of an animated narrative, which she
stopped when Frances entered ; and Mr Waring
had been listening with a smile. He turned
half round and held out his hand to the timid
girl behind him. " Come, Frances," he said,
"you have been a long time making your preparations.
Have you been bringing out the
fairest robe for your sister ? " It was odd how
the parable  which had no signification in their
circumstances  haunted them all.

"Your room is quite ready whenever you
please. And would you like tea or anything?
I ought to have asked if you had dined,"
Frances said.

Is she the housekeeper ?  How odd !  Do
you look after everything ?  Dear me ! I am
afraid, in that case, I shall make a very poor
substitute for Frances, papa."

"It is not necessary to think of that," he
said hastily, giving her a quick glance.

Frances saw it, with another involuntary,
quickly suppressed pang. Of course there
would be things that Constance must be warned
not to say. And yet it felt as if papa had

deserted her and gone over to the other side.
She had not the remotest conception what the
warning referred to, or what Constance meant.

I dined at the hotel," Constance went on,
with those people whom I travelled with. I
suppose you will have to call and be civil.
They were quite delighted to think that they
would know somebody at Bordighera  some of
the inhabitants.  Yes, tea, if you please. And
then I think I shall go to bed ; for twenty-four
hours in the train is very fatiguing, besides the
excitement. Don't you think Frances is very
much like mamma ? There is a little way she
has of setting her chin.  Look there ! That
is mamma all over. I think they would get on
together very well : indeed I feel sure of it."
And again there was a significant look exchanged,
which once more went like a sting to
Frances' heart.

Your sister has been telling me," said Mr
Waring, with a little hesitation, " of a great
many people I used to know. You must be
very much surprised, my dear ; but I will take

an opportunity " He was confused before

her, as if he had been before a judge. He gave

her a look which was half shame and half gratitude,
sentiments both entirely out of place between
him and Frances. She could not bear
that he should look at her so.

Yes, papa," she said as easily as she could ;
'' I know you must have a great deal to talk of.
If Constance will give me her keys I will unpack
her things for her." Both the girls instinctively,
oddly, addressed each other through their
father, the only link between them, hesitating
a little at the familiarity which nature made
necessary, but which had no other warrant.

"Oh, isn't there a maid who can do it?"
Constance cried, opening her eyes.

The evening seemed long to Frances, though
it was not long. Constance trifled over the tea
which Mariuccia made with much reluctance 
for half an hour. But she talked all the time ;
and as her talk was of people Frances had never
heard of, and was mingled with little allusions
to what had passed before,  " I told you about
him ; " " You remember, we were talking of
them ; " with a constant recurrence of names
which to Frances meant nothing at all,  it
seemed long to her.

VOL. I. I

She sat down at the table, and took her
knitting, and listened, and tried to look as if
she took an interest. She did indeed take a
great interest ; no one could have been more
eager to enter without arriere-pensee into the
new life thus unfolded before her; and sometimes
she was amused and could laugh at the
stories Constance was telling ; but her chief
feeling was that sense of being entirely " out of
it"  having nothing to do with it  which makes
people who do not understand society feel like
so many ghosts standing on the margin, knowing
nothing. The feeling was strange and very
forlorn. It is an unpleasant experience even
for those who are strangers, to whom it is a
passing incident ; but as the speaker was her
sister and the listener her father, Frances felt
this more deeply still. Generally in the evening
conversation flagged between them. He
would have his book, and Frances sometimes
had a book too, or a drawing upon which she
could work, or at least her knitting. She had
felt that the silence which reigned in the room
on such occasions was not what ought to be.

It was not like the talk which was supposed
to go on in all the novels she had ever read
where the people were nice. And sometimes
she attempted to entertain her father with little
incidents in the life of their poor neighbours,
or things which Mariuccia had told her ; but
he listened benevolently, with his finger between
the leaves of his book, or even without
closing his book, looking up at her over the
leaves  only out of kindness to her, not because
he was interested ; and then silence would
fall on them, a silence which was very sweet
to Frances, in the midst of which her own little
stream of thoughts flowed on continuously, but
which now and then she was struck to the
heart to think must be very dull for papa.

But to-night it was not dull for him. She
listened, and said to herself this was the way to
make conversation ; and laughed whenever she
could, and followed every little gesture of her
sister's with admiring eyes. But at the end,
Frances, though she would not acknowledge it
to herself, felt that she had not been amused.
She thought the people in the village were just

as interesting. But then she was not so clever
as Constance, and could not do them justice in
the same way.

'rand now I am going to bed," Constance
said. She rose up in an instant with a rapid
movement, as if the thought had only just
struck her and she obeyed the impulse at
once. There was a freedom about all her
movements which troubled and captivated
Frances. She had been leaning half over the
table, her sleeves, which were a little wide,
falling back from her arms, now leaning her
chin in the hollow of one hand, now supporting
it with both, putting her elbows wherever
she pleased. Frances herself had been trained
by Mariuccia to very great decorum in respect
to attitudes. If she did furtively now and
then lean an elbow upon the table, she was
aware that it was wrong all the time ; and as
for legs, she knew it was only men dio where
permitted to cross them, or to do anything
save sit with two feet equal to each other
upon the floor. But Constance cared for none
of these rules. She rose up abruptly (Mariuccia
would have said, as if something had stung her),

almost before she had finished what she was
saying. " Show me my room, please," she
said, and yawned. She yawned quite freely,
naturally, without any attempt to conceal or
to apologise for it as if it had been an accident.
Frances could not help being shocked,
yet neither could she help laughing with a
sort of pleasure in this breach of all rules.
But Constance only stared, and did not in
the least understand why she should laugh.

'where have you put your sister?" Mr
Waring asked.

I have put her  in the room next to yours,
papa ; between your room and mine, you know :
for I am in the blue room now. There she
will not feel strange ; she will have people on
each side."

That is to say, you have given her "

It was Frances' turn now to give a warning
glance. "The room I thought she would like
best," she said, with a soft but decisive tone.
She too had a little imperious way of her own.
It was so soft, that a stranger would not have
found it out ; but in the Palazzo they were
all acquainted with it, and no one  not even

Mariuccia  found it possible to say a word after
this small trumpet lead sounded. Mr Waring
accordingly was silenced, and made no further
remark. He went with his daughters to the
door, and kissed the cheek which Constance
held lightly to him. " I shall see you again,
papa," Frances said, in that same little determined
voice.

Mr Waring did not make any reply, but
shrank a little aside, to let her pass. He
looked like a man who was afraid. She had
spared him ; she had not betrayed the ignorance
in which he had brought her up ; but
now the moment of reckoning was near, and
he was afraid of Frances. He went back into
the alone, and walked up and down with a
restlessness which was natural enough, considering
how all the embers of his life had
been raked up by this unexpected event. He
had lived in absolute quiet for fourteen long
years : a strange life  a life which might have
been supposed to be impossible for a man still
in the heyday of his strength ; but yet, as it
appeared, a life which suited him, which he
preferred to others more natural. To settle

down in an Italian village with a little girl
of six for his sole companion  when he
came to think of it, nothing could be more
unnatural, more extraordinary ; and yet he
had liked it well enough, as well as he could
have liked anything at that crisis of his fate.
He was the kind of man who, in other circumstances,
in another age, would have made himself
a monk, and spent his existence very
placidly in illuminating manuscripts. He had
done something as near this as is possible to
an Englishman not a Eoman Catholic, of the
nineteenth century. Unfortunately, Waring
had no ecclesiastical tendencies, or even in
the nineteenth century he might have found
out for himself some pseudo-monkery in which
he could have been happy. As it was, he had
retired with his little girl, and on the whole
had been comfortable enough. But now the
little girl had grown up, and required to have
various things accounted for ; and the other
individuals who had claims upon him, whom
he thought he had shaken off altogether, had
turned up again, and had to be dealt with.
The monk had an easy time of it in comparison.

He who has but himself to think of
may manage himself, if he has good luck ; but
the responsibility of others on your shoulders
is a terrible drawback to tranquillity. A little
girl ! That seemed the simplest of all things.
It had never occurred to him that she would
form a link by which all his former burdens
might be drawn back ; or that she, more wonderful
still, should ever arise and demand to
know why. But both of these impossible
things had happened.

Waring walked about the alone. He opened
the glass door and stepped out into the loggia,
into the tranquil shining of the moon, which
lit up all the blues of the sea, and kindled
little silver lamps all over the quivering palms.
How quiet it was ! and yet that tranquil nature
lying unmoved, taking whatever came of good
or evil, did harm in a far more colossal way
than any man could do. The sea, then looking
so mild, would suddenly rise up and bring
havoc and destruction worse than an army ;
yet next day smile again, and throw its spray
into the faces of the children, and lie like a
harmless thing under the light. But a man

could not do this. A man had to give an
account of all that he had done, whether it
was good or whether it was evil,  if not to
God  which on the whole was the easiest, for
God knew all about it, how little harm had
been intended, how little anything had been
intended, how one mistake involved another,
if not to God  why, to some one harder to
face ; perhaps to one's little girl.

He came back from the loggia and the moonlight
and nature, which, all of them, were so
indifferent to what was happening to him, with
a feeling that the imperfect human lamp which
so easily got out of gear  as easily as a man
was a more appropriate light for his disturbed
soul ; and met Frances with her brown
eyes waiting for him at the door.

Chapter Vii

"It is not because of this only, papa  I wanted
before to speak to you. I was waiting in the
loggia for you, when Constance came."

'what did you want, Frances? Oh, I quite
acknowledge that you have a right to inquire.
I hoped, perhaps, I might be spared to-night ;
I am rather exhausted  to-night."

Frances dropped the hand which she had laid
upon his arm. " It shall be exactly as you
please, papa. I seem to know a great deal 
oh, a great deal more than I knew at dinner.
I don't think I am the same person ; and I
thought it might save us all trouble if you
would tell me  as much as you think I ought
to know."

She had sat down in her usual place, in her
careful little modest pose, a little stiff, a little

prim  the training of Mariuccia. After Constance,
there was something in the attitude of
Frances which made her father smile, though
he was in no mood for smiling ; and it was
clear that he could not, that he ought not to
escape. He would not sit down, however, and
meet her eye. He stood by the table for a few
minutes, with his eyes upon the books, turning
them over, as if he were looking for something.
At last he said, but without looking up,
'there is nothing very dreadful to tell; no
guilty secret, though you may suppose so.
Your mother and I "

Then I have really a mother, and she is
living ? " the girl cried.

He looked at her for a moment. " I forgot
that for a girl of your age that means a great
deal  I hadn't thought of it. Perhaps if you

knew Yes ; you have got a mother, and

she is living. I suppose that seems a very
wonderful piece of news ? "

Frances did not say anything. The water 
came into her eyes. Her heart beat loudly,
yet softly, against her young bosom. She had
known it, so that she was not surprised. The

surprise had been broken by Constance's careless
talk, by the wonder, the doubt, the sense of impossibility,
which had gradually yielded to a
conviction that it must be so. Her feeling
was that she would like to go now, without
delay, without asking any more questions, to
her mother. Her mother ! and he hadn't
thought before how much that meant to a
girl  of her age !

Mr Waring was a little disconcerted by having
no answer. Of course it meant a great
deal to a girl ; but still, not so much as to
make her incapable of reply. He felt a little
annoyed, disturbed, perhaps jealous, as Frances
herself had been. It was with difficulty that
he resumed again ; but it had to be done.

Your mother and I," he said, taking up the
books again, opening and shutting them, looking
at the title-page now of one, now of another,
did not get on very well. I don't know who
was in fault  probably both. She had been
married before. She had a son whom you
hear Constance speak of as Markham. Markham
has been at the bottom of all the trouble.
He drove me out of my senses when he was a

boy. Now he is a man : so far as I can make
out it is he that has disturbed our peace again
hunted us up, and sent Constance here. If
you ever meet Markham  and of course now
you are sure to meet him  beware of him."
Here he made a pause again, and looked with
great seriousness at the book in his hand,
turning the leaf to finish a sentence which
was continued on the next page.

I beg your pardon, papa," said Frances ; '' I
am afraid I am very stupid. What relation is
Markham to me ? "

He looked at her for a moment, then threw
down the book with some violence on the table,
as if it were the offender. "He is your step-brother,"
he said.

My  brother ? Then I have a brother
too ? " After a little pause she added, " It
is very wonderful, papa, to come into a new
world like this all at once. I want  to draw
my breath."

"It is my fault that it comes upon you all

at once. I never thought You were a

very small child when I brought you away.
You forgot them all, as was natural. I did

not at first know how entirely a child forgets ;
and then  then it seemed a pity to disturb
your mind, and perhaps set you longing for 
what it was impossible for you to obtain."

It surprised him a little that Frances did
not breathe a syllable of reproach. She said
nothing. In her imagination she was looking
back over these years, wondering how it would
have been had she known. Would life ever bethe
same, now that she did know ? The world
seemed to open up round her, so much greater,
wider, more full than she had thought. She
had not thought much on the subject. Life in
Bordighera was more limited even than life in
an English village. The fact that she did not
belong to the people among whom she had
spent all these years, made a difference ; and
her father's recluse habits, the few people he
cared to know, the stagnation of his life, made
a greater difference still. Frances had scarcely
felt it until that meeting with the Mannerings,
which put so many vague ideas into her mind.
A child does not naturally inquire into the
circumstances which have surrounded it all its
life. It was natural to her to live in this

retired place, to see nobody, to make amusements
and occupations for herself  to know
no one more like herself than Tasie Durant.
Had she even possessed any girl-friends living
the natural life of youth, that might have
inspired a question or two. But she knew no
girls  except Tasie, whose girlhood was a sort
of fossil, and who might almost have been the
mother of Frances. She saw indeed the village
girls, but it did not occur to her to compare
herself with them. Familiar as she was withall
their ways, she was still a forester  one of
the barbarous people, English, a word which explains
every difference. Frances did not quite
know in what the peculiarity and eccentricity
of the English consisted ; but she, too, recognised
with all simplicity that, being English,
she was different. Now it came suddenly to
her mind that the difference was not anything
generic and general, but that it was her own
special circumstances that had been unlike all
the rest. There had been a mother all the
time ; another girl, a sister, like herself It
made her brain whirl.

She sat quite silent, thinking it all over, not

perceiving lier father's embarrassment  thinking
less of him, indeed, than of all the wonderful
new things that seemed to crowd about her.
She did not blame him. She was not thinking
enough of him to blame him ; her mind
was quite sufficiently occupied by her discoveries.
As she had taken him all her life
without examination, she continued to take
him. He was her father ; that was enough.
It did not occur to her to ask herself whether
what he had done was right or wrong. Only,
it was all very strange. The old solid earth
had gone from under her feet, and the old
order of things had been overthrown. She
was looking out upon a world not realised 
a spectator of something like the throes of
creation, seeing the new landscape tremble
and roll into place, the heights and hollows
all changing ; there was a great deal of excitement
in it, both pain and pleasure. It
occupied her so fully, that he fell back into
a secondary place.

But this did not occur to Waring. He had
not realised that it could be possible. He felt
himself the centre of the system in which his

little daughter lived, and did not understand
]how she could ignore him. He thought her
silence  the silence of amazement, and excitement,
and of that curious dictatorship  was the
silence of reproach, and that her mind was full of
a sense of wrong, which only duty kept in check.
He felt himself on his trial before her. Having
said all that he had to say, he remained silent,
expecting her response. If she had given vent
to an indignant exclamation, he would have been
relieved ; he would have allowed that she had
a right to be indignant. But her silence was
more than he could bear. He searched through
the recesses of his own thoughts ; but for the
moment he could not find any further excuse
for himself. He had done it for the best. Probably
she would not see that. Waring was well
enough acquainted with the human mind to
know that every individual sees such a question
from his or her own point of view : and he was
prepared to find that his daughter would be unable
to perceive what was so plain to him. But
still he was aware that he had done it for the
best. After a while the silence became so irksome
to him that he felt compelled to break it

VOL. T. K

and resume his explanations. If she would not
say anything, there were a number of things
which he might say.

It is a pity," he said, " that it has all broken
upon you so suddenly. If I could have
divined that Constance would have taken such

a step To tell you the truth, I have never

realised Constance at all," he added, with an
impulse towards the daughter he knew. " She
was of course a mere child : to see her so independent,
and with so distinct a will of her own,
is very bewildering. I assure you, Frances, if
it is wonderful to you, it is scarcely less wonderful
to me."

There was something in his tone that made
her lift her eyes to him ; and to see him stand
there so embarrassed, so subdued, so much
unlike the father who, though very kind and
tender, had always been perhaps a little condescending,
patronising, towards the girl, whom
he scarcely recognised as an independent entity,
went to her heart. She could not tell him not
to be frightened  not to look at her with that
guilty, apologetic look, which altogether reversed
their ordinary relationship ; but it added a pang

to her bewilderment. She asked hastily, byway
of concealing this uncomfortable change, a
question which she thought he would have no
difficulty in answering  " Is Constance much
older than I am, papa ? "

He gave a sort of furtive smile, as if he had
no right to smile in the circumstances. " I don't
wonder at your question. She has seen a great
deal more of the world. But if there is a minute
or two between you, I don't know which has it.
There is no elder or younger in the case. You
are twins, though no one would think so."

This gave Frances a farther shock  though
why, it would be impossible to say. The blood
rushed to her face. " She must think me  a
very poor little thing," she said, in a hurried
tone. " I never knew  I have no friend except
Tasie  to show me what girls might be." The
thought mortified her in an extraordinary way ;
it brought a sudden gush of salt tears  tears
quite different from those which had welled to
her eyes when he told her of her mother.
Constance, who was so different, would despise
her  Constance, who knew exactly all about it,
and that Frances was as old, perhaps a few

minutes older than she. It is always difficult
to divine what form pride will take. This was
the manner in which it affected Frances. The
same age ! and yet the one an accomplished
woman, judging for herself  and the other not
much more than a child.

You do yourself injustice," said Mr Waring,
somewhat rehabilitated by the mortification of
Frances. " Nobody could think you a poor
little thing. You have not the same knowledge
of the world. Constance has been very differently
brought up. I think my training a great
deal better than what she has had," he added
quickly, with a mingled desire to cheer and
restore self-confidence to Frances, and to reassert
himself after his humiliation. He felt
what he said ; and yet, as was natural, he said a
little more than he felt. " I must tell you," he
said, in this new impulse, " that your mother is
a much more important person than I am.
She is a great deal richer. The marriage was
supposed to be much to my advantage."

There was a smile on his face which Frances,
looking up suddenly, warned by a certain change
of tone, did not like to see. She kept her eyes

upon him instinctively, she could not tell why,
with a look which had a certain influence upon
him, though he did not well understand it either.
It meant that the unknown woman of whom he
spoke was the girl's mother  her mother  one
of whom no unbefitting word was to be said.
It checked him in a quite curious unexpected
way. When he had spoken of her, which he
had done very rarely since they parted, it had
been with a sense that he was free to characterise
her as he thought she deserved. But here he
was stopped short. That very evening he had
said things to Constance of her mother which
in a moment he felt that he dared not say" to
Frances. The sensation was a very strange one.
He made a distinct pause, and then he said
hurriedly, " You must not for a moment suppose
that there was anything wrong ; there is
no story that you need be afraid of hearing 
nothing, neither on her side nor mine  nothing
to be ashamed of."

All at once Frances grew very pale ; her eyes
opened wide ; she gazed at him with speechless
horror. The idea was altogether new to her artless
mind. It flashed through his that Constance

would not have been at all surprised  that probably
she would have thought it " nice of him "
to exonerate his wife from all moral shortcoming.
The holy ignorance of the other brought
a sensation of shame to Waring, and at the
same time a sensation of pride. Nothing could
more clearly have proved the superiority of
his training. She would have felt no consternation,
only relief at this assurance, if she had
been all her life in her mother's hands.

"It is a great deal to say, however, though
you are too inexperienced to know. The whole
thing was incompatibility  incompatibility of
temper, and of ideas, and of tastes, and of fortune
even. I could not, you may suppose,
accept advantages purchased with my predecessor's
money, or take the good of his rank
through my wife ; and she would not comedown
in the world to my means and to my
name. It was an utter mistake altogether.
We should have understood each other beforehand.
It was impossible that we could get on.
But that was all. There was probably more
talk about it than if there had been really more
to talk about."



Frances rose up with a little start. " I think,
perhaps," she said, " I don't want you to tell meany
more."

*' Well  perhaps you are right." But he was
startled by her quick movement. " I did not
mean to say anything that could shock you. If
you are to hear anything at all, the truth is
what you must hear. But you must not blame
me over-much, Frances. Your very impatience
of what I have been saying will explain to you
why I thought that to say nothing  as long as
I could help it  was the best."

Her hand trembled a little as she lighted her
candle, but she made no comment. " Goodnight,
papa. To-morrow it will all seem different.
Every thug is strange to-night."

He put his hands upon her shoulders and
looked down into the little serious face, the face
that had never been so serious before. " Don't
think any worse of me, Frances, than you can
help."

Her eyes opened wider with astonishment.

Think of you, worse But, papa, I am not

thinking of you at all," she said, simply; " I am
thinking of it''

Waring had gone through a number of depressing
and humbling experiences during the
course of the evening, but this was the un-kindest
of all  and it was so natural. Frances
was no critic. She was not thinking of his
conduct, which was the first thing in his mind,
but of It, the revelation which had been made
to her. He might have perceived that, or
divined it, if he had not been occupied by this
idea, which did not occupy her at all  the
thought of how he personally had come through
the business. He gave a little faltering laugh
at himself as he stooped and kissed her. " That's
all right," he said. " Good night ; but don't let
It interfere with your sleep. To-morrow everything
will look different, as you say."

Frances turned away with her light in her
hand ; but before she had reached the door,
returned again. 'I think I ought to tell you,
papa, that I am sure the Durants know. They
said a number of strange things to me yesterday,
which I think I understand now. If
you don't mind, I would rather let them
suppose that I knew all the time ; otherwise,

it looks as if you thought you could not
trust me."

I could trust you," he said, with a little
fervour,  " my dear child, my dear little girl 
I would trust you with my life."

Was there a faint smile in the little girl's
limpid simple eyes? He thought so, and
it disconcerted him strangely. She made no
response to that protestation, but with a
little nod of her head went away. Waring
sat down at the table again, and began to
think it all over from the beginning. He
was sore and aching, like a man who has
fallen from a height. He had fallen from
the pedestal on which, to Frances, he had
stood all these years. She might not be
aware of it even  but he was. And he had
fallen from those Elysian fields of peace in
which he had been dwelling for so long.
They had not, perhaps, seemed very Elysian
while he was secure of their possession. They
had been monotonous in their stillness, and
wearied his soul. But now that he looked
back upon them, a new cycle having begun,

they seemed to him like the very home of
peace. He had not done anything to forfeit
this tranquillity ; and yet it was over, and he
stood once more on the edge of an agitated
and disturbed life. He was a man who could
bear monotony, who liked his own way, yet
liked that bondage of habit which is as hard
as iron to some souls. He liked to do the
same things at the same time day after day,
and to be undisturbed in doing them. But
now all his quiet was over. Constance would
have a thousand requirements such as Frances
had never dreamed of; and her brother no
doubt would soon turn up  that step-brother
whom Waring had never been able to tolerate
even when he was a child. She might even
come Herself  who could tell?

When this thought crossed his mind, he
got up hastily and left the scone, leaving
the lamp burning, as Domenico found it next
morning, to his consternation  a symbol of
Chaos come again  burning in the daylight.
Mr Waring almost fled to his room and locked
his door in the horror of that suggestion.

And this was not only because the prospect
of such a visit disturbed him beyond measure,
but because he had not yet made a clean
breast of it. Frances did not yet know all.

Frances for her part went to the blue
room, and opened the persian, and sat
looking out upon the moonlight for sometime
before she went to bed. The room was
bare ; she missed her pictures, which Constance
had taken no notice of  the Madonna that
had been above her head for so many years,
and which had vaguely appeared to her asa
symbol of the mother who had never existed
in her life. Now there seemed less need for
the Madonna. The bare walls had pictures
all over them  pictures of a new life. In
imagination, no one is shy, or nervous, or
strange. She let the new figures move about
her freely, and delighted herself with familiar
pictures of them and the changes that must
accompany them. She was not like her father,
afraid of changes. She thought of the new
people, the new combinations, the quickened
life : and the thought made her smile. They

would come, and she would make the house
gay and bright to receive them. Perhaps
some time, surrounded by this new family
that belonged to her, she might even betaken
" home." The thought was delightful
notwithstanding the thrill of excitement in
it. But still there was something which
Frances did not know.

Chapter IX.

What is this I hear about Waring ? " said
General Gaunt, walking out upon the loggia,
where the Durants were sitting, on the same
memorable afternoon on which all that has
been above related occurred. The General was
dressed in loosely fitting light-coloured clothes.
It was one of the recommendations of the
Eiviera to him that he could wear out there
all his old Indian clothes, which would have
been useless to him at home. He was a very
tall old man, very yellow, nay, almost greenish
in the complexion, extremely S23are, with a fine
old white moustache, which had an immense
effect upon his brown face. The well-worn
epigram might be adapted in his case to say
that nobody ever was so fierce as the General
looked ; and yet he was at bottom rather a mild

old man, and had never hurt anybody, except
the sepoy in the Mutiny, all his life. His head
was covered with a broad light felt hat, which,
soft as it was, took an aggressive cock when he
put it on. He held his gloves dangling from
his hand with the air of having been in too
much haste to put them to their proper use.
And his step, as he stepped off the carpet upon
the marble of the loggia, sounded like that of an
alert officer who has just heard that the enemy
has made a reconnaissance in force two miles
off, and that there is no time to lose. " What
is this I hear about Waring ? " he said.

Yes, indeed ! " cried Mrs Durant.

"It is a most remarkable story," said his
Reverence, shaking his head.

But what is it ? " asked the General. " I
found Mrs Gaunt almost crying when I went in.
What she said was, ' Charles, we have been
nourishing a viper in our bosoms.' I am not
addicted to metaphor, and I insisted upon plain
English ; and then it all came out. She told
me Waring was an impostor, and had been taking
us all in ; that some old friend of his had
been here, and had told you. Is that true ? "

''My dear!" said Mr Durant in a tone of
remonstrance.

"Well, Henry! you never said it was to be
kept a secret. It could not possibly be kept
a secret  so few of us here, and all so intimate."

"Then lie is an impostor?" said General
Gaunt.

"Oh, my dear General, that's too strong a
word. Henry, you had better tell the General,
your own way."

The old clergyman had been shaking his head
all the time. He was dying to tell all that he
knew, yet he could not but improve the occasion.
" Oh, ladies, ladies ! " he said, " when
there is anything to be told, the best of women
is not to be trusted. But, General, our poor
friend is no impostor. He never said he was
a widower."

"It's fortunate we've none of us girls "

the General began ; then with a start, " I forgot
Miss Tasie ; but she's a girl  a girl in ten
thousand," he added, with a happy inspiration.
Tasie, who was still seated behind the teacups,
give him a smile in reply.

Poor dear Mr Waring," she said, " whether

he is a widower or lias a wife, it does not
matter much. Nobody can call Mr Waring a
flirt. He might be any one's grandfather from
his manner. I cannot see that it matters a bit."

"Not so far as we are concerned, thank
heaven ! " said her mother, with the air of one
whose dear child has escaped a danger. " But
I don't think it is quite respectable for one of
our small community to have a wife alive and
never to let any one know."

I understand, a most excellent woman ;
besides being a person of rank," said Mr Durant.
It has disturbed me very much  though,
happily, as my wife says, from no private
motive." Here the good man paused, and gave
vent to a sigh of thankfulness, establishing the
impression that his ingenuous Tasie had escaped
as by a miracle from Waring's wiles ; and then
he continued, " I think some one should speak
to him on the subject. He ought to understand
that now it is known, public opinion requires
Some one should tell him "

There is no one so fit as a clergyman," the
General said.

That is true, perhaps, in the abstract ; but

with our poor friend There are some men

who will not take advice from a clergyman."

"0 Henry! do him justice. He has never
shown anything but respect to you."

I should say that a man of the world, like
the General "

Oh, not I," cried the General, getting up
hurriedly. " No, thank you ; I never interfere
with any man's affairs. That's your business.
Padre. Besides, I have no daughter : whether
he is married or not is nothing to me."

"Nor to us, heaven be praised!" said Mrs
Durant ; and then she added, "It is not for
ourselves ; it is for poor little Frances, a girl
that has never known a mother's care ! How
much better for her to be with her mother, and
properly introduced into society, than living
in that hugger-mugger way, without education,
without companions ! If it were not for Tasie,
the child would never see a creature near her
own age."

"And I am much older than Frances," said
Tasie, rather to heighten the hardship of the
situation than from any sense that this was
true.

VOL. I. L

'decidedly the Padre ought to talk to him,"
said the Anglo-Indian. " He ought to be made

to feel that everybody at the station Wife

all right, do you know? Bless me! if the wife
is all right, what does the man mean ? Why
can't they quarrel peaceably, and keep up appearances,
as we all do ? "

Oh no  not all ; ive never quarrel."

Not for a long time, my love."

Henry, you may trust to my memory. Not
for about thirty years. We had a little disagreement
then about where we were to go for
the summer. Oh, I remember it well  the
agony it cost me ! Don't say ' as we all do,'
General, for it would not be true."

"You are a pair of old turtle-doves," quoth
the General. "All the more reason why you
should talk to him. Padre. Tell him he's come
among us on false pretences, not knowing the
damage he might have done. I always thought
he was a queer hand to have the education of a
little girl."

"He taught her Latin; and that woman of
theirs, Mariuccia, taught her to knit. That's all
she knows. And her mother all the time in

such a fine position, able to do anything for
her ! Oh, it is of Frances I think most ! "

"It is quite evident," said the General, "that
Mr Durant must interfere."

I think it very likely I shall do no good.
A man of the world, a man like that "

"There is no such great harm about the
man."

And he is very good to Frances," said Tasie,
almost under her breath.

I daresay he meant no harm," said the General,
" if that is all. Only, he should be warned ;

and if anything can be done for Frances

It is a pity she should see nobody, and never
have a chance of establishing herself in life."

"She ought to be introduced into society,"
said Mrs Durant. "As for establishing herself
in life, that is in the hands of Providence, General.
It is not to be supposed that such an idea
ever enters into a girl's mind  unless it is put
there, which is so often the case."

The General means," said Tasie, " that seeing
people would make her more fit to be a companion
for her papa. Frances is a dear girl ; but
it is quite true  she is wanting in conversation.

They often sit a whole evening together and
scarcely speak."

She is a nice little thing," said the General,
energetically  " I always thought so ; and never
was at a dance, I suppose, or a junketing of any
description, in her life. To be sure, we are all
old duffers in this place. The Padre should
interfere."

If I could see it was my duty," said Mr
Durant.

I know what you mean," said General Gaunt.
*' I'm not too fond of interference myself. But
when a man has concealed his antecedents, and
they have been found out. And then the little
girl "

Yes : it is Frances I think of most," said
Mr Durant.

It was at last settled among them that
it was clearly the clergyman's business to
interfere. He had been tolerably certain to
begin with, but he liked the moral support
of what he called a consensus of opinion.
Mr Durant was not so reluctant as he professed
to be. He had not much scope for
those social duties which, he was of opinion,

were not the least important of a clergyman's
functions ; and though there was a little excitement
in the uncertainty from Sunday to
Sunday how many people would be at church,
what the collection would be, and other varying
circumstances, yet the life of the clergyman at
Bordighera was monotonous, and a little variety
was welcome. In other chaplaincies which Mr
Durant had held, he had come in contact with
various romances of real life. These were still
the days of gaming, when every German bath
had its tapis vert and its little troop of tragedies.
But the Eiviera was very tranquil,
and Bordighera had just been found out by
the invalid and the. pleasure-seeker. It was
monotonous : there had been few deaths, even
among the visitors, which are always varieties
in their way for the clergyman, and often are
the means of making acquaintances both useful
and agreeable to himself and his family. But
as yet there had not even been many deaths.
This gave great additional excitement to what
is always exciting, for a small community  the
cropping up under their very noses, in their
own immediate circle, of a mystery, of a discovery

which afforded boundless opportunity
for talk. The first thing naturally that had
affected Mr and Mrs Durant was the miraculous
escape of Tasie, to whom Mr Waring
might have made himself agreeable, and whose
peace of mind might have been affected, for
anything that could be said to the contrary.
They said to each other that it was a hairbreadth
escape ; although it had not occurred
previously to any one that any sort of mutual
attraction between Mr Waring and Tasie was
possible.

And then the other aspects of the case
became apparent. Mr Durant felt now that
to pass it over, to say. nothing about the
matter, to allow Waring to suppose that
everything was as it had always been, was
impossible. He and his wife had decided this
without the intervention of General Gaunt ;
but when the General appeared  the only
other permanent pillar of society in Cordillera
 then there arose that consensus which
made further steps inevitable. Mrs Gaunt
looked in later, after dinner, in the darkening
; and she, too, was of opinion that something

must be done. She was affected to
tears by the thought of that mystery in their
very midst, and of what the poor (unknown)
lady must have suffered, deserted by her husband,
and bereft of her child. " He might at
least have left her her child," she said, with
a sob ; and she was fully of opinion that he
should be spoken to without delay, and that
they should not rest till Frances had been
restored to her mother. She thought it was
a duty " on the part of Mr Durant to interfere.
The consensus was thus unanimous ;
there was not a dissentient voice in the entire
community. " We will sleep upon it," Mr
Durant said. But the morning brought no
further light. They were all agreed more
strongly than ever that Waring ought to bespoken
to, and that it was undeniably a duty
for the clergyman to interfere.

Mr Durant accordingly set out before it was
too late, before the mid-day breakfast, which is
the coolest and calmest moment of the day, the
time for business, before social intercourse is supposed
to begin. He was very carefully brushed
from his hat to his shoes, and was indeed a very

agreeable example of a neat old clerical gentleman.
Ecclesiastical costume was much more
easy in those days. It was before the era of
long coats and soft hats, when a white tie was
the one incontrovertible sign of the clergyman
who did not think of calling himself a priest.
He was indeed, having been for a number of
years located in Catholic countries, very particular
not to call himself a priest, or to condescend
to any garb which could recall the soutane
and three-cornered hat of the indigenous
clergy. His black clothes were spotless, but of
the ordinary cut, perhaps a trifle old-fashioned.
But yet neither soutane nor henrietta could have
made it more evident that Mr Durant, setting
out with an ebony stick and black gloves, was
an English clergyman going mildly but firmly
to interfere. Had he been met with in the
wilds of Africa, even there mistake would
have been impossible. In his serious eye, in
the aspect of the corners of his mouth, in a
certain air of gentle determination diffused
over his whole person, this was apparent.
It made a great impression upon Domenico
when he opened the door. After what had

happened yesterday, Domenico felt that anything
might happen. " Lo, this man's brow,
like to a title leaf, foretells the nature of the
tragic volume," he said to Mariuccia  at least
if he did not use these words, his meaning
was the same. He ushered the English pastor
into the room which Mr Waring occupied as a
library, with bated breath. " Master is going
to catch it," was what, perhaps, a light-minded
Cockney might have said. But Domenico was
a serious man, and did not trifle.

Waring s library was, like all the rooms of his
suite, an oblong room, with three windows and
as many doors, opening into the dining-room
on one hand, and the ante-room on the other.
It had the usual indecipherable fresco on the
roof, and the walls on one side were half clothed
with bookcases. Not a very large collection of
books, and yet enough to make a pretty show,
with their old gilding, and the dull white of
the vellum in which so many were bound. It
was a room in which he spent the most of his
time, and it had been made comfortable according
to the notions of comfort prevailing in these
regions. There was a square of carpet under his

writing-table. His chair was a large old fauteuil,
covered with faded damask; and curtains,
also faded, were festooned over all the
windows and doors. The persian were shut
to keep out the sun, and the cool atmosphere
had a greenish tint. Waring, however, did
not look so peaceful as his room. He sat with
his chair pushed away from the table, reading
what seemed to be a novel. He had the air
of a man who had taken refuge there from
some embarrassment or annoyance ; not the
tranquil look of a man occupied in so-called
studies needing leisure, with his note-books at
hand, and pen and ink within reach. Such a
man is usually very glad to be interrupted in
the midst of his self-imposed labours, and
Waring's first movement was one of satisfaction.
He threw down the book, with an
apology for having ever taken it up in the
half-ashamed, half violent way in which he got
rid of it. Don't suppose I care for such rubbish,
his gesture seemed to say. But the aspect
of Mr Durant changed his look of welcome.
He rose hurriedly, and gave his visitor a chair.
You are early out," he said.

Yes ; the morning, I find, is the best time.
Even after the sun is down, it is never so fresh
in the evening. Especially for business, I find
it the best time."

That means, I suppose," said Waring, " that
your visit this morning means business, and not
mere friendship, as I had supposed ? "

"Friendship always, J hope," said the tidy
old clergyman, smoothing his hat with his
hand; "but I don't deny it is something more
serious : a  a  question I want to ask you, if
you don't mind "

Just at this moment, in the next room there
rose a little momentary and pleasant clamour
of voices and youthful laughter; two voices
certainly  Frances and another. This made
Mr Durant prick up his ears. "You have 
visitors ? " he said.

Yes. I will answer to the best of my
ability," said Waring, with a smile.

Now was the time when Mr Durant realised
the difficult nature of his mission. At home in
his own house, especially in the midst of the
consensus of opinion, with everybody encouraging
him and pressing upon him the fact that

it was " a duty," the matter seemed easy
enough. But when he found himself in
Waring's house, looking a man in the face
with whose concerns he had really no right
to interfere, and who had not at all the air
of a man ready to be brought to the confessional,
Mr Durant's confidence failed him.
He faltered a little ; he looked at his very
unlikely penitent, and then he looked at the
hat which he was turning round in his hands,
but which gave him no courage. Then he
cleared his throat. " The question is  quite a
simple one," he said. " There can be no doubt
of your ability  to answer. I am sure you
will forgive me if I say, to begin with "

One moment. Is this question  which seems
to trouble you  about my affairs or yours ? "

Mr Durant's clear complexion betrayed something
like a flush. "That is just what I want
to explain. You will acknowledge, my dear
Waring, that you have been received here 
well, there is not very much in our power 
but with every friendly feeling, every desire to
make you one of us."

 ' All this preface shows me that it is I who

have been found wanting. You are quite
right ; you have been most hospitable and
kind  to myself, almost too much so ; to my
daughter, you have given all the society she
has ever known."

"I am glad, truly glad, that you think we
have done our part. My dear friend, was it
right, then, when we opened our arms to you
so unsuspectingly, to come among us in a false
character  under false colours ? "

"Stop!" said Waring, growing pale. "This
is going a little too far. I suppose I understand
what you mean. Mannering, who calls
himself my old friend, has been here ; and ashe
could not hold his tongue if his life depended
upon it, he has told you But why

you should accuse me of holding a false position,
of coming under false colours  which was
what you said "

Waring ! " said the clergyman, in a voice of
mild thunder, " did you never think, when you
came here, comparatively a young, and  well,
still a good-looking man  did you never think
that there might be some susceptible heart 
some woman's heart "

Good heavens ! " cried Waring, starting to

this feet, " I never supposed for a moment "

Some young creature," Mr Durant continued,

solemnly, " whom it might be my duty
and your duty to guard from deception ; but
who naturally, taking you for a widower "

Waring's countenance of horror was unspeakable.
He stood up before his table like a little
boy who was about to be caned. Exclamations
of dismay fell unconsciously from his lips.
*' Sir ! I-never thought "

Mr Durant paused to contemplate with
pleasure the panic he had caused. He put
down his hat and rubbed together his little
fat white hands. "By the blessing of Providence,"
he said, drawing a long breath, " that
danger has been averted. I say it with thankfulness.
We have been preserved from any
such terrible result. But had things been
differently ordered  think, only think ! and be
grateful to Providence."

The answer which Waring made to this
speech was to burst into a fit of uncontrollable
laughter. He seemed incapable of recovering
his gravity. As soon as he paused, exhausted,

to draw breath, he was off again. The suggestion,
when it ceased to be horrible, became
ludicrous beyond description. He quavered
forth " I beg your pardon " between the fits,
which Mr Durant did not at all like. He sat
looking on at the hilarity very gravely without
a smile.

I did not expect so much levity," he said.

'' I beg your pardon," cried the culprit, with
tears running down his cheeks. " Forgive me.
If you will recollect that the character of a gay
Lothario is the last one in the world "

*' It is not necessary to be a gay Lothario,"
returned the clergyman. " Really, if this is to
continue, it will be better that I should withdraw.
Laughter was the last thing I intended
to produce."

It is not a bad thing, and it is not an
indulgence I am given to. But I think, considering
what a very terrible alternative you
set before me, we may be very glad it has
ended in laughter. Mr Durant," continued
Waring, "you' have only anticipated an explanation
I intended to make. Mannering is
an ass."

"I am sure lie is a most respectable member
of society," said Mr Durant, with much gravity.

So are many asses. I have some one else
to present to you, who is very unlike Mannering,
but who betrays me still more distinctly.
Constance, I want you here."

The old clergyman gazed, not believing his
eyes, as there suddenly appeared in the doorway
the tall figure of a girl who had never been
seen as yet in Bordighera  a girl who was very
simply dressed, yet who had an air which the
old gentleman, acquainted, as he flattered himself,
with the air of fine people, could not
ignore. She stood with a careless grace, returning
slightly, not without a little of that
impertinence of a fine lady which is so impressive
to the crowd, his salutation. "Did
you want me, papa ? " she quietly asked.

The revelation wliicli thus burst upon Mr
Durant was known throughout the length
and breadth of Bordighera, as that good man
said, before the day was out. The expression
was not so inappropriate as might be at
first supposed, considering the limited society
to which the fact that Mr Waring had a
second daughter was of any particular interest
; for the good chaplain's own residence
was almost at the extremity of the Marina,
and General Gaunt's on the highest point
of elevation among the olive gardens ; while
the only other English inhabitants were in
the hotels near the beach, and consisted of a
landlady, a housekeeper, and the highly respectable
person who had charge of the stables
at the Bellevue. This little inferior world
VOL. I. M

was respectfully interested but not excited
by the new arrival.

But to Mrs Distant and Tasie it was an
event of the first importance ; and Mrs Gaunt
was at first disposed to believe that it was
a revelation of further wickedness, and that
there was no telling where these discoveries
might end. '' We shall be hearing that he
has a son next," she said. They had a meeting
in the afternoon to talk it over ; and it
really did appear at first that the new disclosure
enhanced the enormity of the first 
for, naturally, the difference between a widower
and a married man is aggravated by the
discovery that the deceiver pretending to have
only one child has really "a family." At the
first glance the ladies were all impressed by
this ; though afterwards, when they began to
think of it, they were obliged to admit that
the conclusion perhaps was not very well
founded. And when it turned out that
Frances and the new-comer where twins, that
altogether altered the question, and left them,
though they were by no means satisfied, without
anything further to say.

While all this went on outside the Palazzo,
there was much going on within it that was
calculated to produce difficulty and embarrassment.
Mr Waring, with a consciousness that
he was acting a somewhat cowardly part, ran
away from it altogether, and shut himself up
in his library, and left his daughters to make
acquaintance with each other as they best
could. He was, as has been said, by no means
sufficiently at his ease to return to what he
called his studies, the ordinary occupations of
his life. He had run away, and he knew it.
He went so far as to turn the key in one
door, so that, whatever happened, he could
only be invaded from one side, and sat down
uneasily in the full conviction that from
moment to moment he might be called upon
to act as interpreter or peacemaker, or to
explain away difficulties. He did not understand
women, but only his wife, from whom
he had taken various prejudices on the subject
; neither did he understand girls, but
only Frances, whom, indeed, he ought to
have known better than to suppose, either
that she was likely to squabble with her

sister, or call him in to mediate or explain.
Frances was not at all likely to do either of
these things ; and he knew that, yet lived
in a vague dread, and did not even sit comfortably
on his chair, and tried to distract
his mind with a novel  which was the condition
in which he was found by Mr Durant.
The clergyman's visit did him a little good,
giving him at once a grievance and an object
of ridicule. During the rest of the day he
was so far distracted from his real difficulties
as to fall from time to time into fits of secret
laughter over the idea of having been in all
unconsciousness a source of danger for Tasie.
He had never been a gay Lothario, as he
said; but to have run the risk of destroying
Tasie's peace of mind was beyond his
wildest imagination. He longed to confide
it to somebody, but there was no one with
whom he could share the fun. Constance
perhaps might have understood ; but Frances !
He relapsed into gravity when he thought of
Frances. It was not the kind of ludicrous
suggestion which would amuse her.

Meanwhile the girls, who were such strangers

to each other, yet so closely bound by nature,
were endeavouring to come to a knowledge
of each other by means which were much
more subtle than any explanation their father
could have supplied ; so that he might, if he
had understood them better, have been entirely
at his ease on this point. As a matter
of fact, though Constance vas the cleverer
of the two, it was Frances who advanced most
quickly in her investigations, for the excellent
reason that it was Constance who talked,
while Frances, for the most part having nothing
at all interesting to say of herself, held
her peace. Frances had been awakened at
an unusually late hour in the morning  for
the agitation of the night had abridged her
sleep at the other end  by the sounds of
mirth which accompanied the first dialogue
between her new sister and Mariuccia. The
Italian which Constance knew was limited,
but it was of a finer quality than any with
Which Mariuccia was acquainted ; yet still they
came to some sort of understanding, and both
repudiated the efforts of Frances to explain.
And from that moment Constance had kept

the conversation in her hands. She did not
chatter, nor was there any appearance of loquacity
in her ; but Frances had lived much
alone, and had been taught not to disturb her
father when she was with him, so that it was
more her habit to be talked to than to talk.
She did not even ask many questions  they
were scarcely necessary ; for Constance, as was
natural, was full of herself and of her motives
for the step she had taken. These revelations
gave Frances new lights almost at every
word.

You always knew, then, about  us ? " Frances
said. She had intended to say " about me,"
but refrained, with mingled modesty and pride.

Oh, certainly. Mamma always writes, you
know, at Christmas, if not often er. We did
not know you were here. It was Markham
who found out that. Markham is the most
active-minded fellow in the world. Papa does
not much like him. I daresay you have never
heard anything very favourable of him ; but
that is a mistake. We knew pretty well about
you. Mamma used to ask that you should
write, since there was no reason why, at your

age, you should not speak for yourself; but
you never did. I suppose he thought it better
not."

I suppose so."

I should not myself have been restrained
by that," said Constance. " I think very well
on the whole of papa ; but obedience of that
sort at our age is too much. I should not
have obeyed him. I should have told him
that in such a matter I must judge for myself.
However, if one learns anything as
one grows up," said this young philosopher,
"it is that no two people are alike. I suppose
that was not how the subject presented
itself to you ? "

Frances made no reply. She wondered
what she would have said had she been told
to write to an unknown mother. Ought she
to do so now ? The idea was a very strange
one to her mind, and yet what could be more
natural? It was with a sense of precipitate
avoidance of a subject which must be contemplated
fully at an after-period, that she
said hurriedly, "I have never written letters.
It did not come into my head."

Ah ! " said Constance, looking at her with a
sort of impartial scrutiny. Then she added, with
a sequence of thoughts which it was not difficult
to follow, " Don't you think it is very odd that
you and I should be the same age ? "

Frances felt herself grow red, and the water
came to her eyes. She looked wistfully at the
other, who was so much more advanced than
she felt herself to be. " I suppose  we ought
to have been like each other," she said.

"We are not, however, a bit. You are like
mamma. I don't know whether you are like
her in mind  but on the outside. And I am
like him. It is very funny. It shows that
one has these peculiarities from one's birth ;
it couldn't be habit or association, as people
say, for I have never been with him  neither
have you with mamma. I suppose he is very
independent-minded, and does what he likes
without thinking ? So do I. And you consider
what other people will say, and how it will look,
and a thousand things."

It did not seem to Frances that this was the
case ; but she was not at all in the habit of
studying herself, and made no protest. Did

she consider very much what other people
would say? Perhaps it was true. She had
been obliged, she reflected, to consider what
Mariuccia would say ; so that probably Constance
was right.

It was Markham that discovered you, after
all, as I told you. He is invaluable ; he never
forgets ; and if you want to find anything out,
he will take any amount of trouble. I may as
well tell you why I left home. If we are going
to live together as sisters, we ought to make
confidants of each other ; and if you have to go,
you can take my part. Well, then ! You must
know there is a man in it. They say you
should always ask, ' Who is She ? ' when there
is a row between men ; and I am sure it is just
as natural to ask, ' Who is He ? ' when a girl
gets into a scrape."

The language, the tone, the meaning, were all
new to Frances. She did not know anything
about it. When there is a row between men ;
when a girl gets into a scrape : the one and the
other were equally far from her experience.
She felt herself blush, though she scarcely knew
why. She shook her head when Constance

added, though rather as a remark than as a
question, "Don't you know? Oh, well ; I did
not mean, have you any personal experience,
but as a general principle ? The man in this
case was well enough. Papa said, when I told
him, that it was quite right ; that I had better
have made up my mind without making a fuss ;
that he would have advised me so, if he had
known. But I will never allow that this is a
point upon which any one can judge for you.
Mamma pressed me more than a mother has
any right to do  to a person of my age."
But, Constance, eighteen is not so very old."
Eighteen is the age of reason," said the girl,
somewhat imperiously ; then she paused and
added  "in most cases, when one has been
much in the world, like me. Besides, it is like
the middle ages when your mother thinks she
can make you do what she pleases and marry
as she likes. That must be one's own affair.
I must say that I thought papa would take my
part more strongly, for they have always been
so much opposed. But after all, though he is
not in harmony with her, still the parents'
side is his side."

Did you not like  the gentleman ? " said
Frances. Nothing could be more modest than
this question, and yet it brought the blood to
her face. She had never heard the ordinary
badinage on this subject, or thought of love
with anything but awe and reverence, as a
mystery altogether beyond her and out of discussion.
She did not look at her sister as she
put the question. Constance lay back in the
long wicker-work chair, well lined with cushions,
which was her father's favourite seat, with her
hands clasped behind her head, in one of those
attitudes of complete abandon which Frances
had been trained to think impossible to a girl.

"Did I like  the gentleman? I did not
think that question could ever again be put tome
in an original way. I see now what is the
good of a sister. Mamma and Markham and
all my people had such a different way of looking
at it. You must know that that is not the
first question, whether you like the man. As
for that, I liked him  well enough. There
was nothing to  dislike in him."

Frances turned her eyes to her sister s face
with something like reproach. "I may not

have used the right word. I have never spoken
on such subjects before."

I have always been told that men are dreadful
prudes," said Constance. " I suppose papa
has brought you up to think that such things
must never be spoken of. I'll tell you what is
original about it. I have been asked if he
was not rich enough, if he was not handsome
enough, if it was because he had no title : and
I have been asked if I loved him, which was
nonsense. I could answer all that ; but you I
can't answer. Don't I like him ? I was not
going to be persecuted about him. It was
Markham who put this into my head. ' Why
don't you go to your father,' he said, 'if you
won't hear reason ? He is just the sort of
person to understand you, if we don't.' So,
then, I took them at their word. I came
off  to papa."

"Does Markham dislike papa? I mean,
doesn't he think "

I know what you mean. They don't think
that papa has. good sense. They think him
romantic, and all that. I have always been

accustomed to think so too. But the curious
thing is that he isn't," said Constance, with an
injured air. '' I suppose, however foolish one's
father may be for himself, he still feels that he
must stand on the parents' side."

"You speak," said Frances, with a little
indignation, " as if papa was likely to be against
his children ; as if he were an enemy."

Taking sides is not exactly being enemies,"
said Constance. " We are each of our own
faction, you know. It is like Whigs and Tories.
The fathers and mothers side with each other,
even though they may be quite different and
not get on together. There is a kind of reason
in it. Only, I have always heard so much of
papa as unreasonable and unlike other people,
that I never thought of him in that light. He
would be just the same, though, except that for
the present I am a stranger, and he feels bound
to be civil to me. If it were not for his politeness,
he is capable of being medieval too."

"I don't know what medieval means," said
Frances, with much heat, indignant to hear her
father thus spoken of as a subject for criticism.

Perhaps lie liacl criticised him in her time, as
children use  but silently, not putting it into
words, which makes a great difference. And
besides, what one does one's self in this way is
quite another matter. As she looked at this
girl, who was a stranger, though in some extraordinary
way not a stranger, a momentary pang
and impotent sudden rage against the web of
strange circumstances in which she felt herself
caught and bewildered, flamed up in her mild
eyes and mind, unaccustomed to complications.
Constance took no notice of this sudden passion.
It means bread and water," she said, with
a laugh, " and shutting up in one's own room,
and cutting off of all communication from without.
Mamma, if she were driven to it, is quite
capable of that. They all are  rather than give
in ; but as we are not living in the middle ages,
they have to give in at last. Perhaps, if I had
thought that what you may call his official
character would be too strong for papa, I should
have fought it out at home. But I thoucrlit heat
least would be himself, and not a conventional
parent. I am sure he has been a very

queer sort of parent hitherto ; but the momenta
fight comes, he puts himself on his own side."
She gave forth these opinions very calmly,
lying back in the long chair, with her hands
clasped behind her head, and her eyes following
abstractedly the lines of the French coast. The
voice which uttered sentiments so strange to
Frances was of the most refined and harmonious
tones, low, soft, and clear. And the lines
of her slim elastic figure, and of her perfectly
appropriate dress, which combined simplicity
and costliness, carelessness and consummate
care, as only high art can, added to the effect
of a beauty which was not beauty in any demonstrative
sense, but rather harmony, ease,
grace, fine health, fine training, and what, for
want of a better word, we call blood. Not that
the bluest blood in the world inevitably carries
with it this perfection of tone ; but Constance
had the effect which a thoroughbred horse has
upon the connoisseur. It would have detracted
from the impression she made had there been
any special point upon which the attention
lingered  had her eyes, or her complexion, her

hands, or lier hair, or any individual trait, called
for particular notice. But hers was not beauty
of that description.

Her sister, who was, so to speak, only a little
rustic, sat and gazed at her in a kind of rapture.
Her heart did not, as yet at least, go out towards
this intruder into her life ; her affections
were as yet untouched ; and her temper was
a little excited, disturbed by the critical tone
which her sister assumed, and the calm frankness
with which she spoke. But though all
these dissatisfied, almost hostile sentiments
were in Frances' mind, her eyes and attention
were fascinated. She could not resist the influence
which this external perfection of being
produced upon her. It was only perhaps now
in the full morning light, in the abandon of
this confidence and candour, which had none
of the usual tenderness of confidential revelations,
but rather a certain half - disdainful
self-discovery which necessity demanded, that
Frances fully perceived her sister's gifts. Her
own impatience, her little impulses of irritation
and contradiction, died away in the wondering

admiration with which she gazed. Constance
showed no sign even of remarking the effect
she produced. She said meditatively, dropping
the words into the calm air without any apparent
conception of novelty or wonder in them,
I wonder how you will like it when you have
to go."

VOL. I.

Chapter XL

Within the first few days, a great many of
these conversations took place, and Frances
gradually formed an idea to herself  not, perhaps,
very like reality, but yet an idea  of the
other life from which her sister had come. The
chief figure in it was "mamma," the mother
with whom Constance was so carelessly familiar,
and of whom she herself knew nothing at all.
Frances did not learn from her sister's revelations
to love her mother. The effect was
very different from that which, in such circumstances,
might have been looked for. She came
to look upon this unknown representative of
the parents' side," as Constance said, as upon
a sort of natural opponent, one who understood
but little and sympathised not at all with the
younger, the other faction, the generation which
was to succeed and replace her. Of this fact
the other girl never concealed her easy conviction.

The elders for the moment had the
power in their hands, but by-and-by their day
would be over. There was nothing unkind or
cruel in this certainty; it was simply the course
of nature : by-and-by their sway would be
upset by the natural progress of events, and
in the meantime it was modified by the other
certainty, that if the young stood firm, the
elders had no alternative but to give in. Altogether,
it was evident the parents' side was not
the winning side ; but all the same it had the
power of annoying the other to a very great
extent, and exercised this power with a selfishness
which was sometimes brutal. Mamma, it
was evident, had not considered Constance at
all. She had taken her about into society for
her own ends, not for her daughter's pleasure :
and, finally, she had formed a plan by which
Constance was to be handed over to another
proprietor without any consultation of her
own wishes.

The heart of Frances sank as she slowly
identified this maternal image, so different from
that which fancy and nature suggest. She tried
to compare it with the image which she herself
might in her turn have communicated of her

father, had it been she who was the expositor.
It frightened her to find, as she tried this experiment
in her own mind, that the representation
of papa would not have been much more satisfactory.
She would have shown him as passing
his time chiefly in his library, taking very little
notice of her tastes and wishes, settling what
was to be done, where to go, everything that
was of any importance in their life, without at
all taking into account what she wished. This
she had always felt to be perfectly natural, and
she had no feeling of a grievance in the matter ;
but supposing it to be necessary to tell the
story to an ignorant person, what would that
ignorant person's opinion be ? It gave her a
great shock to perceive that the impression
produced would also be one of harsh authority,
indifferent, taking no note of the inclinations
of those who were subject to it. That was how
Constance would understand papa. It was not
the case, and yet it would look so to one who
did not know. Perceiving this, Frances came
to feel that it might be natural to represent the
world as consisting of two factions, parents and
children. There was a certain truth in it. If

there should happen to occur any question 
which was impossible  between papa and herself,
she felt sure that it would be very difficult
for him to realise that she had a will of her
own ; and yet Frances was very conscious of
having a will of her own.

In this way she learned a great many things
vaguely through the talk of her sister. She
learned that balls and. other entertainments,
such as, to her inexperienced fancy, had seemed
nothing but pleasure, were not in reality intended,
at least as their first object, for pleasure
at all. Constance spoke of them as things
to which one must go. " We looked in for an
hour," she would say. "Mamma thinks she
ought to have half-a-dozen places to go to every
evening," with a tone in which there was more
sense of injury than pleasure. Then there was
the mysterious question of love, which was at
once so simple and so awful a matter, on which
there could be no doubt or question : that, it appeared,
was quite a complicated affair, in which
the lover, the hero, was transferred into "the
man," whose qualities had to be discovered and
considered, as if he were a candidate for a publie

office. All this bewildered Frances more
than can be imagined or described. Her sister's
arrival, and the disclosures involved in it, had
broken up to her all the known lines of heaven
and earth ; and now that everything had settled
down again, and these lines were beginning
once more to be apparent, Frances felt
that though they were wider, they were narrower
too. She knew a great deal more ; but
knowledge only made that appear hard and unyielding
which had been elastic and infinite.
The vague and imaginary were a great deal more
lovely than this, which, according to her sister's
revelation, was the real and true.

Another very curious experience for Frances
occurred when Mrs Durant and Mrs Gaunt, as
in duty bound, and moved with lively curiosity,
came to call and make acquaintance with Mr
Waring's new daughter. Constance regarded
these visitors with languid curiosity, only half
rising from her chair to acknowledge her introduction
to them, and leaving Frances to
answer the questions which they thought it
only civil to put. Did she like Bordighera ?

Oh yes ; well enough," Constance replied.

My sister thinks the people not so picturesque
as she expected," said Frances.

'' But of course she felt the delightful difference
in the climate ? " People, Mrs Durant understood,
were suffering dreadfully from east wind
in London''

Ah ! one doesn't notice in town," said Constance.


My sister is not accustomed to living without
comforts and with so little furniture. You
know that makes a great difference," said her
anxious expositor and apologist.

And then there would ensue a long pause,
which the new-comer did nothing at all to break:
and then the conversation fell into the ordinary
discussion of who was at church on Sunday,
how many new people from the hotels, and how
disgraceful it was that some who were evidently
English should either poke into the Roman
Catholic places or never go to church at all.

*' It comes to the same thing, indeed," Mrs
Durant said, indignantly; " for when they go to
the native place of worship, they don't understand.
Even I, that have been so long on the
Continent, I can't follow the service."

But papa can," said Tasie.

'' Ah, papa  papa is much more highly educated
than I could ever pretend to be ; and
besides, he is a theologian, and knows. There
were quite half-a-dozen people, evidently English,
whom I saw with my own eyes coming out
of the chapel on the Marina. Oh, don't say
anything, Tasie ! I think, in a foreign place,
where the English have a character to keep
up, it is quite a sin."

"You know, mamma, they think nobody
knows them," Tasie said.

Mrs Gaunt did not care so much who attended
church ; but when she found that Constance
had, as she told the General, " really nothing to
say for herself," she too dropped into her habitual
mode of talk. She did her best in the
first place to elicit the opinions of Constance
about Bordighera and the climate, about how
she thought Mr Waring looking, and if dear
Frances was not far stronger than she used to
be. But when these judicious inquiries failed
of a response, Mrs Gaunt almost turned her
back upon Constance. " I have had a letter
from Katie, my dear," she said.

Have you indeed ? I hope she is quite welland
the babies ? "

"Oh, the babies ; they are always well. But
poor Katie, she has been a great sufferer. I
told you she had a touch of fever, by last mail.
Now it is her liver. You are never safe from
your liver in India. She had been up to the
hills, and there she met Douglas, who had gone
to settle his wife and children. His wife is a
poor little creature, always ailing ; and their

second boy But, dear me, I have not told

you my great news ! Frances  George is coming
home ! He is coming by Brindisi and Venice,
and will be here directly. I told him I was sure
all my kind neighbours would be so glad to see
him ; and it will be so nice for him  don't you
think ? to see Italy on his way."

Oh, very nice," said Frances. " And you
must be very happy, both the General and you."

The General does not say much, but he is
just as happy as I am. Fancy ! by next mail !
in another week ! " The poor lady dried her
eyes, and added, laughing, sobbing, " Only
think  in a week  my youngest boy ! "

"Do you mean to say," said Constance, when

Mrs Gaunt was gone, "that you have made
them believe you care ? Oh, that is exactly
like mamma. She makes people think she is
quite happy and quite miserable about their
affairs, when she does not care one little bit !
What is this woman's youngest son to you ? "

But she is I have been here all my

life. I am glad that she should be happy," cried
Frances, suddenly placed upon her defence.

When she thought of it, Mrs Gaunt's youngest
boy was nothing at all to her ; nor did she
care very much whether all the English in the
hotels on the Marina went to church. But Mrs
Gaunt was interested in the one, and the Dur-ants
in the other. And was it true what Constance
said, that she was a humbug, that she
was a deceiver, because she pretended to care ?
Frances was much confused by this question.
There was something in it : perhaps it was true.
She faltered as she replied, " Do you think it is
wrong to sympathise ? It is true that I don't
feel all that for myself. But still it is not false,
for I do feel it for them  in a sort of a way."

And that is all the society you have here ?
the clergyman and the old soldier. And

will they expect me, too, to feel for them  in a
sort of a way ? "

Dear Constance," said Frances, in a pleading
tone, " it could never be quite the same, you
know ; because you are a stranger, and I have
known them ever since I was quite a little thing.
They have all been very kind to me. They
used to have me to tea ; and Tasie would play
with me ; and Mrs Gaunt brought down all her
Indian curiosities to amuse me. Oh, you don't
know how kind they are ! I wonder, sometimes,
when I see all the carved ivory things, and
remember how they were taken out from under
the glass shades for me, a little thing, how I
didn't break them, and how dear Mrs Gaunt
could trust me with them ! And then Tasie "

"Tasie! What a ridiculous name! But it
suits her well enough. She must be forty, I
should think."

Her right name is Anastasia. She is called
after the Countess of Denmark, who is her godmother,"
said Frances, with great gravity. She
had heard this explanation a great many times
from Mrs Durant, and unconsciously repeated
it in something of the same tone. Constance

received this with a sudden laugh, and tapped
her hands.

I didn't know you were a mimic. That is
capital. Do Tasie now. I am sure you can ;
and then we shall have got a laugh out of them
at least."

What do you mean ? " asked Frances, growing
pale. " Do you think I would laugh at
them ? When you know how really good they
are

Oh yes ; I suppose I shall soon know," said
Constance, opening her mouth in a yawn, which
Frances thought would have been dreadful in
any one else, but which, somehow, was rather
pretty in her. Everything was rather pretty
in her, even her little rudeness and impertinences.
"If I stay here, of course I shall
have to be intimate with them, as you have
been. And must I take a tender interest in
the youngest boy ? Let us see ! He will bea
young soldier probably, as his mother is an
old one, and as he is coming from India. He
will never have seen any one. He is bound
to take one of us for a goddess, either you
or me."

** Constance ! " cried Frances, in her consternation
raising her voice.

"Well," said her sister, "is there anything
wonderful in that ? We are very different
types, and till we see the hero, we shall not
be able to tell which he is likely to prefer. I
see my way to a little diversion, if you will
not be too puritanical. Fan. That never does
a man any harm. It will rouse him up ; it
will give him something to think of. A place
like this can't have much amusement, even
for a youngest boy. We shall make him enjoy
himself. His mother will bless us. You
know, everybody says it is part of education
for a man."

Frances looked at her sister with eyes bewildered,
somewhat horrified, full of disapproval ;
while Constance, roused still more by her sister's
horror than by the first mischievous suggestion
which had awakened her from her indifference,
laughed, and woke up into full animation.
We will go and return their visits," she said,
*' and I will be sympathetic too. But you shall
see, when I take up a part, I make much more
of it than you do. I know who these people

were who did not go to church. They were
my people  the people I travelled with ; and
they shall go next Sunday, and Tasie's heart
shall rejoice. When wee call, I will let them
know that England, even at Bordighera, expects
every man  and every woman, which is
more to the purpose  and that their absence
was remarked. They will never be absent
again, Fan. And as for the other interest, I
shall inquire all about Katie's illnesses, and
secure the very last intelligence about the
youngest boy. She will show me his photograph.
She will tell me stories of how he
cut his first tooth. I wonder," said Constance,
suddenly pausing and falling back into the
old languid tone, " whether you will take up
my old ways, when you are with mamma."

"I shall never have it in my power to try,"
said Frances. " Mamma will never want me."
She was a little shy of using that name.

Don't you know the condition, then ? I
think you don't half know our story. Papa
behaved rather absurdly, but honestly too.
When they separated, he settled that one of
us should always be with her, and one of us

with him. He had the right to have taken
US both. Men have more rights than women.
We belong to him, but we don't belong to her.
I don't see the reason of it, but still that is
law. He allowed her to have one of us always.
I daresay he thought two little things
like what we were then would have been a bore
to him. At all events, that is how it was
settled. Now it does not need much cleverness
to see, that as I have left her, she will
probably claim you. She will not let papa off
anything he has promised. She likes a girl in
the house. She will say, ' Send me Frances.'
I should like to hide behind a door or under
a table, and see how you get on."

"I am sure you must be mistaken," said
Frances, much disturbed; "there was never
any question about me."

No ; because I was there. Oh yes ; there
was often question of you. Mamma has a little
picture of you as you were when you were
taken away. It always hangs in her room ;
and when I had to be scolded, she used to
apostrophise you. She used to say, 'That
little angel would never have done so-and-so.'

I did, for I was a little demon ; so I rather
hated you. She will send for you now ; and
I wonder if you will be a little angel still. I
should like to see how you get on. But I shall
be fully occupied here driving people to church,
and making things pleasant for the old soldier's
youngest son."

''I wish you would not talk so wildly," said
Frances. " You are laughing at me all the
time. You think I am such a simpleton, I
will believe all you say. And indeed I am
not clever enough to understand when you
are laughing at me. All this is impossible.
That I should take your place, and that you
should take mine  oh, impossible ! " cried
Frances, with a sharper certainty than ever,
as that last astounding idea made itself apparent
: that Constance should order papa's
dinners and see after the mayonnaise, and
guide Mariuccia  " oh, impossible ! " she cried.

Nothing is impossible. You think I am
not good enough to do the housekeeping for
papa. I only hope you will sen tirer of the
difficulties of my place, as I shall of yours.
Be a kind girl, and write to me, and tell me

how things go. I know what will happen.
You will think everything charming at first ;

and then But don't let Markham get hold

of you. Markham is very nice. He is capital
for getting you out of a scrape ; but still, I
should not advise you to be guided by him,
especially as you are papa's child, and he is
not fond of papa."

Please don't say any more," cried Frances.
I am not going  anywhere. I shall live as
I have always done ; but only more pleasantly
from having  you."

That is very pretty of you," said Constance,
turning round to look at her ; " if you are sure
you mean it, and that it is not only true  ina
sort of a way. I am afraid I have been nothing
but a bore, breaking in upon you like this.
It would be nice if we could be together," she
added, very calmly, as if, however, no great
amount of philosophy would be necessary to
reconcile her to the absence of her sister. " It
would be nice ; but it will not be allowed.
You needn't be afraid, though, for I can give
you a number of hints which will make it much
easier. Mamma is a little  she is just a little

VOL. I.

but I should think you would get on with
her. You look so young, for one thing. She
will begin your education over again, and she
likes that ; and then you are like her, which
will give you a great pull. It is very funny
to think of it ; it is like a transformation scene ;
but I daresay we shall both get on a great deal
better than you think. For my part, I never
was the least afraid."

With this, Constance sank into her chair
again, and resumed the book she had been
reading, with that perfect composure and indifference
which filled Frances with admiration
and dismay.

It was with difficulty that Frances herself
kept her seat or her self-command at all. She
had been drawing, making one of those innumerable
sketches which could be made from
the loggia : now of a peak among the mountains
; now of the edge of foam on the blue,
blue margin of the sea ; now of an olive, now
of a palm. Frances had a consistent conscientious
way of besieging Nature, forcing her day
by day to render up the secret of another tint,
another shadow. It was thus she had come

to the insight which had made her father
acknowledge that she was " growing np." But
to-day her hand had no cunning. Her pulses
beat so tumultuously that her pencil shared
the agitation, and fluttered too. She kept
still as long as she could, and spoiled a piece
of paper, which to Frances, with very little
money to lose, was something to be thought
of. And when she had accomplished this, and
added to her excitement the disagreeable and
confusing effect of failure in what she was
doing, Frances got up abruptly and took refuge
in the household concerns, in directions
about the dinner, and consultations with ,
who was beginning to be a little jealous
of the signorina's absorption in her new companion.
" If the young lady is indeed your
sister, it is natural she should have a great
deal of your attention ; but not even for that
does one desert one's old friends," Mariuccia
said, with a little offended dignity.

Frances felt, with a sinking of the heart,
that her sister's arrival had been to her perhaps
less an unmixed pleasure than to any of
the household. But she did not say so. She

made no exhibition of the trouble in her bosom,
which even the consultations over the mayonnaise
did not allay. That familiar duty indeed
soothed her for the moment. The question
was whether it should be made with chicken
or fish  a very important matter. But though
this did something to relieve her, the culinary
effort did not last. To think of being sent
away into that new world in which Constance
had been brought up  to leave everything she
knew  to meet " mamma," whose name she
whispered to herself almost trembling, feeling
as if she took a liberty with a stranger,  all
this was bewildering, wonderful, and made her
heart beat and her head ache. It was not
altogether that the anticipation was painful.
There was a flutter of excitement in it which
was almost delight ; but it was an alarmed
delight, which shook her nerves as much as
if it had been unmixed terror. She could not
compose herself into indifference as Constance
did, or sit quietly down to think, or resume
her usual occupation, in the face of this sudden
opening out before her of the unforeseen and
unknown.

CHAPTER Xll.

The days ran on for about a week with a
suppressed and agitating expectation in them,
which seemed to Frances to blur and muddle
all the outlines, so that she could not recollect
which was Wednesday or which was Friday,
but felt it all one uncomfortable long feverish
sort of day. She could not take the advantage
of any pleasure there might be in them  and
it was a pleasure to watch Constance, to hear
her talk, to catch the many glimpses of so
different a life, which came from the careless,
easy monologue which was her style of conversation
 for the exciting: sense that she did
not know what might happen at any moment,
or what was o-oinof to become of her. Even the
change from her familiar place at table, which
Constance took without any thought, just as

she took her father's favourite chair on the
loggia, and the difference in her room, helped
to confuse her mind, and add to the feverish
sensation of a life altogether out of joint.

Constance had not observed any of those
signs of individual habitation about the room
which Frances had fancied would lead to a
discovery of the transfer she had made. She
took it quite calmly, not perceiving anything
beyond the ordinary in the chamber which
Frances had adorned with her sketches, with
the little curiosities she had picked up, withall
the little collections of her short life. It
was wanting still in many things which to
Constance seemed simple necessities. How
was she to knows how many were in it which
were luxuries to that primitive locality ? She
remained altogether unconscious, accordingly,
of the sacrifice her sister had made for
her, and spoke lightly of poor Frances' pet
decorations, and of the sketches, the authorship
of which she did not take the trouble to
suspect. "What funny little pictures ! " she had
said. "Where did you get so many odd little

things ? They look as if the frames were homemade,
as well as the drawings."

Fortunately she was not in the habit of
waiting for an answer to such a question, and
she did not remark the colour that rose to
her sister's cheeks. But all this added to the
disturbing influence, and made these long days
look unlike any other days in, Frances' life. She
took the other side of the table meekly with
a half-smile at her father, warning him not to
say anything ; and she lived in the blue room
without thinking of adding to its comforts 
for what was the use, so long as this possible
banishment hung over her head ? Life seemed
to be arrested during these half-dozen days.
They had the mingled colours and huddled
outlines of a spoiled drawing ; they were not
like anything else in her life, neither the established
calm and certainty that went before, nor
the strange novelty that followed after.

There were no confidences between her father
and herself during this period. Since their conversation
on the night of Constance's arrival,
not a word had been said between them on the

subject. They mutually avoided all occasion
for further talk. At least Mr Waring avoided
it, not knowing how to meet his child, or to
explain to her the hazard to which her life was
exposed. He did not take into consideration
the attraction of the novelty, the charm of
the unknown mother and the unknown life, at
which Frances permitted herself to take tremulous
and stealthy glimpses as the days went
on. He contemplated her fate from his own
point of view as something like that of the
princess who was doomed to the dragon's maw
but for the never-to-be-forgotten interposition
of St George, that emblem of chivalry. There
was no St George visible on the horizon, and
Waring thought the dragon no bad emblem of
his wife. And he was ashamed to think that
he was helpless to deliver her ; and that, by
his fault, this poor little Una, this hapless
Andromeda, was to be delivered over to the
waiting monster.

He avoided Frances, because he did not
know how to break to her this possibility, or
how, since Constance probably had made her
aware of it, to console her in the terrible crisis

at which she had arrived. It was a painful
crisis for himself as well as for her. The first
evening on which, coming into the loggia to
smoke his cigarette after dinner, he had found
Constance extended in his favourite chair, had
brought this fully home to him. He strolled
out upon the open-air room with all the ease
of custom, and for the first moment he did not
quite understand what it was that was changed
in it, that put him out, and made him feel as
if he had come, not into his own familiar
domestic centre, hut somebody else's place.
He hung about for a minute or two, confused,
before he saw what it was; and then,
with a half-laugh in his throat, and a mingled
sense that he was annoyed, and that it was
ridiculous to be annoyed, strolled across the
loggia, and half seated himself on the outer wall,
leaning against a pillar. He was astonished
to think how much disconcerted he was, and
with what a comical sense of injury he saw his
daughter lying back so entirely at her ease in
his chair. She was his daughter, but she was
a stranger, and it was impossible to tell her
that her place was not there. Next evening

he was almost angry, for he thought that
Frances might have told her though he could
not. And indeed Frances had done what she
could to warn her sister of the usurpation.
But Constance had no idea of vested rights
of this description, and had jDaid no attention.
She took very little notice, indeed, of what was
said to her, unless it arrested her attention in
some special way ; and she had never been
trained to understand that the master of a
house has sacred privileges. She had not so
much as known what it is to have a master
to a house.

This and other trifles of the same kind gave
to Waring something of the same confused
and feverish feeling which was in the mind
of Frances. And there hung over him a cloud
as of something further to come, which was
not so clear as her anticipations, yet was full
of discomfort and apprehension. He thought
of many things, not of one thing, as she did.
It seemed to him not impossible that his wife
herself might arrive some day as suddenly as
Constance had done, to reclaim her child, or
to take away his, for that was how they were

distinguished in his mind. The idea of seeing
again the woman from whom he had been
separated so long, filled him with dread ; and
that she should come here and see the limited
and recluse life he led, and his bare rooms, and
his homely servants, filled him with a kind of
horror. Father anything than that. He did
not like to contemplate even the idea that it
might be necessary to give up the girl, who
had flattered him by taking refuge with him
and seeking his protection ; but neither was
the thought of being left with her and having
Frances taken from him endurable. In short,
his mind was in a state of mortal confusion
and tumult. He was like the commander of
a besieged city, not knowing on what day he
might be summoned to surrender ; not able
to come to any conclusion whether it would
be most wise to yield, or if the state of
his resources afforded any feasible hopes of
holding out.

Constance had been a week at the Palazzo
before the trumpets sounded: The letters were
delivered just before the twelve-o'clock breakfast;
and Frances had received so much warning

as this, that Mariuccia informed her there had
been a large delivery that morning. The
signor padrone had a great packet ; and there
were also some letters for the other young
lady, Signorina Constans. " But never any
for thee, carina" Mariuccia had said. The
poor girl thus addressed had a momentary
sense that she was indeed to be pitied on this
account, before the excitement of the certainty
that now something definite must be known
as to what was to become of her, swelled her
veins to bursting ; and she felt herself grow
giddy with the thought that what had been
so vague and visionary, might now be coming
near, and that in an hour or less she would
know ! Waring was as usual shut up in his
workroom ; but she could see Constance on the
loggia with her lap full of letters, lying back
in the long chair as usual, reading them as if
they were the most ordinary things in the
world. Frances, for her part, had to wait in
silence until she should learn from others what
her fate was to be. It seemed very strange that
one girl should be free to do so much, while
another of the same age could do nothing at all.

Waring came into breakfast with the letters in
his hand. " I have heard from your mother,"
he said, looking straight before him, without
turning to the right or the left. Frances tried
to appropriate this to herself, to make some
reply, but her voice died in her throat ; and
Constance, with the easiest certainty that it
was she who was addressed, answered before
she could recover herself.

Yes  so have I. Mamma is rather fond
of writing letters. She says she has told you
what she wishes, and then she tells me to tell
you. I don't suppose that is of much use ? "

"Of no use at all," said he. " She is pretty
explicit. She says "

Constance leant over the table a little, holding
up her finger. "Don't you think, papa," she
said, "as it is business, that it would be better
not to enter upon it just now ? Wait till we
have had our breakfast."

He looked at her with an air of surprise. " I

don't see " he said ; then, after a moment's

reflection, "Perhaps you are right, after all.
It may be better not to say anything just
now."

Frances had recovered her voice. She looked
from one to another as they spoke, with a cruel
consciousness that it was she, not they, who
was most concerned. At this point she burst
forth with feelings not to be controlled. "If it
is on my account, I would rather know at once
what it is," she cried.

And then she had to bear the looks of both 
her father's astonished half-remorseful gaze, and
the eyes of Constance, which conversed a warning.
Why should Constance, who had told her
of the danger, warn her now not to betray
her knowledge of it ? Frances had got beyond
her own control. She was vexed by the looks
which were fixed upon her, and by the supposed
consideration for her comfort which lay
in their delay. " I know," she said quickly,
that it is something about me. If you think
I care for breakfast, you are mistaken ; but I
think I have a right to know what it is, if it is
about me. papa, I don't mean to be  disagreeable,"
she cried suddenly, sinking into her
own natural tone as she caught his eye.

That is not very much like you, certainly,"
he said, in a confused voice.

"Evil communications," said Constance, with
a laugh. " I have done her harm already."

Frances felt that her sister's voice threw a
new irritation into her mood. " I am not like
myself," she said, "because I know something
is going to happen to me, and I don't know
what it is. Papa, I don't want to be selfish,
but let me know, please, only let me know what
it is."

"It is only that mamma has sent for you,"
said Constance, lightly; "that is all. It is
nothing so very dreadful. Now do let us have
our breakfast in peace."

Is that true, papa ? " Frances said.

My dear little girl  I had meant to explain
it all  to tell you  and I have been so silly as
to put ofi*. Your sister does not understand how
we have lived together, Frances, you and I."

Am I to go, papa ? "

He made a gesture of despair. " I don't
know what to do. I have given my promise.
It is as bad for me as for you, Frances. But
what am I to do ? "

I suppose," said Constance, who had helped
herself very tranquilly from the dish which

Domenico had been holding unobserved at his
master's elbow, " that there is no law that could
make you part with her, if you don't wish to.
Promises are all very well with strangers ; but
they are never kept  are they ?  between husband
and wife. The father has all the right on
his side, and you are not obliged to give either
of us up. What a blessing," she cried suddenly,
" to have servants who don't understand !
That was why I said, don't talk of it till after
breakfast. But it does not at all matter. It is
as good as if he were deaf and dumb. Papa,
you need not give her up unless you like."

Waring looked at his daughter with mingled
attention and anger. The suggestion was detestable,
but yet

And then," she went on, " there is another
thing. It might have been all very well when
we were children ; but now we are of an age
to judge for ourselves. At eighteen, you can
choose which you will stay with. Oh, younger
than that. There have been several trials in
the papers  no one can force Frances to go
anywhere she does not like, at her age."

I wish," he said, with a little irritation.

restrained by politeness, for Constance was still
a young-lady visitor to her father, *that you
would leave this question to be discussed afterwards.
Your sister was right, Frances  after
breakfast  after I have had a little time to
think of it. I cannot come to any decision all
at once."

"That is a great deal better," said Constance,
approvingly. " One can't tell all in a moment.
Frances is like mamma in that too. She requires
you to know your own mind  to say
Yes or No at once. You and I are very like
each other, papa. I shall never hurry your
decision, or ask you to settle a thing in a
moment. But these cutlets are getting quite
cold. Do have some before they are spoiled."

Waring had no mind for the cutlets, to which
he helped himself mechanically. He did not
like to look at Frances, who sat silent, with her
hands clasped on the table, pale but with a
light in her eyes. The voice of Constance
running on, forming a kind of veil for the
trouble and confusion in his own mind, and
doubtless in that of her sister, was half a relief
and half an aggravation ; he was grateful for it,

VOL. I. p

yet irritated by it. He felt himself to play a
very poor figure in the transaction altogether,
as he had felt ever since she arrived. Frances,
whom he had regarded as a child, had sprung
i\j) into a judge, into all the dignity of an
injured person, whose right to complain of the
usage to which she had been subjected no one
could deny. And when he stole a furtive
glance at her pale face, her head held high, the
new light that burned in her eyes, he felt that
she was fully aware of the wrong he had done
her, and that it would not be so easy to dictate
what she was to do, as everybody up to this
moment had supposed. He saw, or thought he
saw, resistance, indignation, in the gleam that
had been awakened in Frances' dove's eyes.
And his heart fell  yet rose also ; for how
could he constrain her, if she refused to go ?
He had no right to constrain her. Her mother
might complain, but it would not be his doing.
On the other side, it would be shameful, pitiful
on his part to go back from his word  to
acknowledge to his wife that he could not do
what he had pledged himself to do.

In every way it was an uncomfortable breakfast,

all the forms of which he followed, partly
for the sake of Constance, partly for that of
Domenico. But Frances ate nothing, he could
see. He prolonged the meal, through a sort of
fear of the interview afterwards, of what he
must say to her, and of what she should reply.
He felt ashamed of his reluctance to encounter
this young creature, whom a few days ago he
had smiled at as a child ; and ashamed to look
her in the face, to explain and argue with, and
entreat, where he had been always used to tell
her to do this and that, without the faintest
fear that she would disobey him. If even he
had been left to tell her himself of all the
circumstances, to make her aware gradually of
all that he had kept from her (for her good),
to show her now how his word was pledged !
But even this had been taken out of his hands.

All this time no one talked but Constance,
who went on with an occasional remark and
with her meal, for which she had a good
appetite. " I wish you would eat something,
Frances," she said. "You need not begin to
punish yourself at once. I feel it dreadfully,
for it is all my fault. It is I who ought to lose

my breakfast, not you. If you will take a few
hints from me, I don't think you will find it so
bad. Or perhaps, if we all lay our heads together,
we may see some way out of it. Papa
knows the law, and I know the English side,
and you know what you think yourself. Let
us talk it all over, and perhaps we may see
our way."

To this Frances made no reply save a little
inclination of her head, and sat with her eyes
shining, with a certain proud air of self-control
and self-support, which was something quite
new to her. When the uncomfortable repast
could be prolonged no longer, she was "the first
to get up. " If you do not mind," she said, " I
want to speak to papa by himself."

Constance had risen too. She looked with
an air of surprise at her little sister. " Oh, if
you like," she said ; " but I think you will find
that I can be of use."

If you are going to the workroom, I will
come with you, papa," said Frances, but she
did not wait for any reply ; she opened the
door and walked before him into that place of
refuge, where he had been sheltering himself all

these days. Constance gave him an inquiring
look, with a slight shrug of her shoulders.

She is on her high horse, and she is more
like mamma than ever ; but I suppose I may
come all the same."

He wavered a moment : he would have been
glad of her interposition, even though it irritated
him ; but he had a whimsical sense of alarm in
his mind, which he could not get over. He was
afraid of Frances  which was one of the most
comical things in the world. He shook his head,
and followed humbly into the workroom, and
himself closed the door upon the intruder.
Frances had seated herself already at his table,
in the seat which she always occupied when she
came to consult him about the dinner, or about
something out of the usual round which 
had asked for. To see her seated there,
and to feel that the door was closed against
all intrusion, made Waring feel as if all this
disturbance was a dream. How good the quiet
had been ; the calm days, which nothing interfered
with ; the little housekeeper, whose childlike
prudence and wisdom were so quaint, whose
simple obedience was so ready, who never, save

in respect to the spes, set up her own will or
way ! His heart grew very soft as he sat down
and looked at her. No, he said to himself, he
would not break that old bond ; he would not
compel his little girl to leave him, send her out
as a sacrifice. He would rather stand against
all the wives in the world.

Papa," said Frances, " a great deal of harm
has been done by keeping me ignorant. I want
you to show me mamma's letter. Unless I see
it, how can I know ? "

This pulled him up abruptly and checked the
softening mood. "Your mother's letter," he said,
goes over a great deal of old ground. I don't
see that it could do you any good. It appears
I promised  what Constance told you, with her
usual coolness  that one of you should be always
left with her. Perhaps that was foolish."

Surely, papa, it was just."

Well, I thought so at the time. I wanted
to do what was right. But there was no right
in the matter. I had a perfect right to take
you both away, to bring you up as I pleased.
It would have been better, perhaps, had I done
what the law authorised me to do. However,

that need not be gone into now. What your
sister said was quite true. You are at an age
when you are supposed to be able to judge for
yourself, and nobody in the world can force
you to go where you don't want to go."

But if you promised, and if  my mother
trusted to your promise ? " There was something
more solemn in that title than to say
mamma." It seemed easier to apply it to
the unknown.

I won't have you made a sacrifice of on my
account," he said, hastily.

He was surprised by her composure, by that
unwonted light in her eyes. She answered him
with great gravity, slowly, as if conscious of the
importance of her conclusion. " It would be no
sacrifice," she said.

Waring, there could be no doubt, was very
much startled. He could not believe his ears.
"No sacrifice? Do you mean to say that you
want to leave me ? " he cried.

No, papa : that is, I did not. I knew nothing.
But now that I know, if my mother wants me,
I will go to her. It is my duty. And I should
like it," she added, after a pause.

Waring was dumb with surprise and dismay.
He stared at her, scarcely able to believe that
she could understand what she was saying  he,
who had been afraid to suggest anything of the
kind, who had thought of Andromeda and the
virgins who were sacrificed to the dragon. He
gazed aghast at this new aspect of the face with
which he was so familiar, the uplifted head and
shining eyes. He could not believe that this
was Frances, his always docile, submissive, un-emancipated
girl.

*' Papa," she said, " everything seems changed,
and I too. I want to know my mother ; I want
to see  how other people live."

Other people ! " He was glad of an outlet
for his irritation. " What have we to do with
other people ? If it had not been for this unlucky
arrival, you would never have known."

I must have known some time," she said.
And do you think it right that a girl should
not know her mother  when she has a mother ?
I want to go to her, papa."

He flung out of his chair with an angry movement,
and took up the keys which lay on his
table and opened a small cabinet which stood

in the corner of the room, Frances watching him
all the time with the greatest attention. Out
of this he brought a small packet of letters, and
threw them to her with a movement which,
for so gentle a man, was almost violent. " I
kept these back for your good, not to disturb
your mind. You may as well have them, since
they belong to you  now," he said.

CHAPTER Xllf.

Come out for a walk, papa," said Constance.

What ! in the heat of the day ? You think
you are in England."

"No, indeed. I wish I did  at least, that
is not what I mean. But I wish you did not
think it necessary to stay in a place like this.
Why should you shut yourself out from the
world ? You are very clever, papa."

Who told you so ? You cannot have found
that out by your own unassisted judgment."

A great many people have told me. I have
always known. You seem to have made a
mystery about us, but we never made any
mystery about you : for one thing, of course
we couldn't, for everybody knew. But if you
chose to go back to England "

I shall never go back to England."

Oh," said Constance, with a laugh, " never
is a long day."

So long a day, that it is a pity you should
link your fortunes to mine, my dear. Frances
has been brought up to it ; but your case is
quite different : and you see even she catches
at the first opportunity of getting away."

You are scarcely just to Frances," said Constance,
with her usual calm. " You might have
said the same thing of me. I took the first
opportunity also. To know that one has a
father, whom one never remembers to have
seen, is very exciting to the imagination ; and
just in so much as one has been disappointed in
the parent one knows, one expects to find perfection
in the parent one has never seen. Anything
that you don't know is better than everything
you do know," she added, with the air of
a philosopher.

I am afraid, in that case, acquaintance has
been fatal to your ideal."

"Not exactly," she said. "Of course you
are quite different from what I supposed. But
I think we might get on well enough, if you
please. Do come out. If we keep in the shade,

it is not really very hot. It is often hotter in
London, where nobody thinks of staying indoors.
If we are to live together, don't you think you
must begin by giving in to me a little, papa ? "

"Not to the extent of getting a sunstroke."

In March ! " she cried, with a tone of mild
derision. " Let me come into the workroom,
then. You think if Frances goes that you will
never be able to get on with me."

My thoughts have not gone so far as that.
I may have believed that a young lady fresh
from all the gaieties of London "

But so tired of them, and very glad of a
little novelty, however it presents itself."

Yes, so long; as it continues novel. But the
novelty of making the spes in a village, and
looking sharply after every centesimo that is
asked for an artichoke "

The spes means the daily expenses ? I
should not mind that. And Mariuccia is far
more entertaining than an ordinary English
cook. And the neighbours  well, the neighbours
afford some opportunities for fun. Mrs
Gaunt  is it ?  expects her youngest boy.
And then there is Tasie."

The name of Tasie brought a certain relaxation
to the muscles of Waring's face. He gave
a glance round him, to see that all the doors
were closed. " I must confide in you, Constance
; though, mind, Frances must not share
it. I sitting here, simple as you see me, have
been supposed dangerous to Tasie's peace of
mind. Is not that an excellent joke ? "

I don't see that it is a joke at all," said Constance,
without even a smile. " Why, Tasie is
antediluvian. She must be nearly as old as you
are. Any old gentleman might be dangerous
to Tasie. Tell me something more wonderful
than that."

Oh, that is how it appears to you ! " said
Waring. His laugh came to a sudden end,
broken off", so to speak, in half, and an air of
portentous gravity came over his face. He
turned over the papers on the table before him,
as with a sudden thought. " By the way, I
forgot I had something to do this afternoon,"
he said. " Before dinner, perhaps, we may take
a stroll, if the sun is not so hot. But this is
my working-time," he added, with a stiff smile.

Constance could not disregard so plain a hint.

She rose up quickly. She had taken Frances'
chair, which he had forgiven her at first ; but
it made another note against her now.

'' What have I done ? " she said to herself,
raising her eyebrows, angry and yet half
amused by her dismissal. Frances had gone
to her room too, and was not to be disturbed,
as her sister had seen by the look of her face.
She felt herself, as she would have said, very
much " out of it," as she wandered round the
deserted scdoiie, looking at everything in it
with a care suggested by her solitude rather
than any real interest. She looked at the lig
high-coloured water-pots, turned into decorations,
one could imagine against their will,
which stood in the corners of the room, and
which were Mrs Durant's present to Frances ;
and at the blue Savona vases, with the names
of medicines, real or imaginary, betraying their
original intention : and all the other decorative
scraps  the little old pictures, the pieces of
needlework and brocade. They were pretty
when she looked at them, though she had not
perceived their beauty at the first glance.
There were more decorations of the same describe

tion in the anteroom, which gave hera
little additional occupation ; and then she
strolled into the loggia and threw herself into
the long chair. She had a book, one of the
novels she had bought on the journey. But
Constance was not accustomed to much reading.
She got through a chapter or two ; and
then she looked round upon the view and
mused a little, and then returned to her novel.
The second time she threw it down and went
back to the drawing-room, and had another look
at the Savona pots. She had thought how well
they would look on a certain shelf at "home."
And then she stopped and took herself to task.
What did she mean by home ? This was home.
She was going to live here; it was to be her
place in the world. What she had to do was to
think of the decorations here, and whether she
could add to them, not of vacant corners in
another place. Finally, she returned again to
the loggia, and sat down once more rather
drearily.

There had never occurred a day in her experience
in which she had been so long without
something to do." Something to do meant

something that was amusing, something to pass
the time, somebody to entertain, or perhaps, if
nothing else was possible, to quarrel with. To
sit alone and look round her at " the view," to
have not a creature to say a word to, and nothing
to engage herself with but a book  and
nothing to look forward to but this same thing
repeated three hundred and sixty-five days in
the year ! The prospect, the thought, made
Constance shiver. It could not be. She must
do something to break the spell. But what was
there to do ? The spes were all made for today,
the dinner was ordered ; and she knew
very little either about the S2:)ese or the dinner.
She would have to learn, to think of new dishes,
and write them down in a little book, as Frances
did. Her dinners, she said to herself, must be
better than those of Frances. But when was
she to begin, and how was she to do it ? In
the meantime she went and fetched a shawl,
and while the sun blazed straight on the loggia
from the south, to which it was open in front, and
left only one scrap of shade in a corner scarcely
enough to shelter the long chair, fell asleep
there, finding that she had nothing else to do.

Frances had gone to her room with her packet
of letters. She had not thought what they
were, nor what had been the meaning of what
her father said when he gave them to her. She
took them  no, not to her own room, but to the
blue room, in which there was so little comfort.
Her little easy-chair, her writing-table, all the
things with which she was at home, belonged to
Constance now. She sat down, or rather up, ina
stiff upright chair, and opened her little packet
upon her bed. To her astonishment, she found
that it contained letters addressed to herself,
unopened. The first of them was printed inlarge
letters, as for the eyes of a child. They
were very simple, not very long, concluding invariably
with one phrase : "Dear, write to me"
" Write to me, my darling." Frances read
them with her eyes full of tears, with a rising
wave of passion and resentment which seemed
to suffocate her. He had kept them all back.
What harm could they have done? Why should
she have been kept in ignorance, and made to
appear like a heartless child, like a creature
without sense or feeling ? Half for her mother,

VOL. I. Q

half for herself, the girl's heart swelled with a
kind of fury. She had not been ready to judge
her father even after she had been aware of his
sin against her. She had still accepted what
he did as part of him, bidding her own mind
be silent, hushing all criticism. But when she
read these little letters, her passion overflowed.
How dared he to ignore all her rights, to allow
herself to be misrepresented, to give a false idea
of her? This was the most poignant pang of
all. Without being selfish, it is still impossible
to feel a wrong of this kind to another so acutely
as to yourself. He had deprived her of the
comfort of knowing that she had a mother, of
communicating with her, of retaining some hold
upon that closest of natural friends. That injury
she had condoned and forgiven ; but when
Frances saw how her father's action must have
shaped the idea of herself in the mind of her
mother, there was a moment in which she felt
that she could not forgive him. If she had
received year by year these tender letters, yet
never had been moved to answer one of them,
what a creature must she have been, devoid of
heart or common feeling, or even good taste,

that superficial grace by which the want of
better things is concealed I She was more
horrified by this thought than by any other
discovery she could have made. She seemed to
see the Frances whom her mother knew  a
little ill-conditioned child ; a small, petty, ungracious,
unloving girl. Was this wdiat had
been thought of her ? And it was all his fault
all her father's fault !

At first she could see no excuse for him.
She would not allow to herself that ny love for
her, or desire to retain her affection, was at the
bottom of the concealment. She got a sheet of
paper, and began to write with passionate vehemence,
pouring forth all her heart. "Imagine
that I have never seen your dear letters till
to-day  never till to-day ! and what must you
think of me ? " she wrote. But when she had
put her whole heart into it, working a miracle,
and making the dull paper to glow and weep,
there came a change over her thoughts. She
had kept his secret till now. She had not
betrayed even to Constance the ignorance in
which she had been kept ; and should she
change her course, and betray him now ?

As she came to think it over, she felt that
she herself blamed her father bitterly, that he
had fallen from the pedestal on which to her he
had stood all her life. ' Yet the thought that
others should be conscious of this degradation
was terrible to her. When Constance spoke
lightly of him, it was intolerable to Frances ;
and the mother of whom she knew nothing, of
whom she knew only that she was her mother,
a woman who had grievances of her own against
him, who would be perhaps pleased, almost
pleased, to have proof that he had done this
wrong 1 Frances paused, with the fervour of
indignation still in her heart, to consider how
she should bear it if this were so. It was
all selfish, she said to herself, growing more
miserable as she fought with the conviction
that whether in condemning him or covering
what he had done, herself was her first thought.
She had to choose now between vindicating
herself at his cost, or suffering continued misconception
to screen him. Which should she
do ? Slowly she folded up the letter she had
written and put it away, not destroying but
saving it, as leaving it still possible to carry

out her first intention. Then she wrote another
shorter, half fictitious letter, in which
the bitterness in her heart seemed to take the
form of reproach, and her consent to obey her
mother's call was forced and sullen. But this
letter was no sooner written than it was torn
to pieces. What was she to do ? She ended,
after much thought, by destroying also her
first letter, and writing as follows : 

"Dear Mother,  To see my sister and to
hear that you want me, is very bewildering
and astonishing to me. I am very ready to
come, if, indeed, you will forgive me all that
you must think so bad in me, and let me try
as well as I can to please you. Indeed I desire
to do so with all my heart. I have understood
very little, and I have been thoughtless,
and, you will think, without any natural affection
; but this is because I was so ignorant,
and had nobody to tell me. Forgive me, dear
mamma. I do not feel as if I dare write to
you now and call you by that name. As soon
as we can consider and see how it is best forme
to travel, I will come. I am not clever

and beautiful, like Constance ; but indeed I
do wish to please you with all my heart.

Frances."

This was all she could say. She put it up
in an envelope, feeling confused with her long
thinking, and with all the elements of change
that were about her, and took it back to the
workroom to ask for the address. She had
felt that she could not approach her father
with composure or speak to him of ordinary
matters ; but it made a little formal bridge, as
it were, from one kind of intercourse to another,
to ask him for that address.

Will you please tell me where mamma
lives ? " she said.

Waring turned round quickly to look at her.
So you have written already ? "

"0 papa, can you say 'already'? What
kind of creature must she think I am, never
to have sent a word all these years ? "

He paused a moment and then said, " You
have told her, I suppose ? "

I have told her nothing except that I am
ready to come whenever we can arrange how

I am to travel. Papa," she said, with one of
those sudden relenting which come in the way
of oui sternest displeasure with those we love 
"0 papa," laying her hand on his arm, "why
did you do it ? I am obliged to let her think
that I have been without a heart all my life 
for I cannot bear it when any one blames you."

"Frances," he said, with a response equally
sudden, putting his arm round her, ' what will
my life be without you ? I have always trusted
in you, depended on you without knowing it.
Let Constance go back to her, and stay you
with me."

Frances lead not been accustomed to many
demonstrations of affection, and this moved her
almost beyond her power of self-control. She
put down her head upon her father s shoulder
and cried, "Oh, if we could only go back a
week ! but we can't ; no, nor even half a day.
Things that might have been this morning,
can't be now, papa ! I was very, very angry
oh, in a rage  dien I read these letters.
Why did you keep them from me ? Why
did you keep my mother from me ? I wrote
and told her everything, and then I tore up

my letter and told her nothing. But I can
never be the same again," said the girl, shaking
her head with that conviction of the unchangeableness
of a first trouble which is so strong
in youth. " Now I know what it is tc be one
thing and appear another, and to beer blame
and suffer for what you have not deserved."

Waring repented his appeal to his child. He
repented even the sudden impulse which had
induced him to make it. He withdrew his arm
from her with a sudden revulsion of feeling,
and a recollection that Constance was not
emotional, but a young woman of the world,
who would understand many things which
Frances did not understand. He withdrew
his arm, and said somewhat coldly, " Show
me what address you have put upon your
mother's letter. You must not make any mistake
in that."

Frances dried her eyes hastily, and felt the
check. She put her letter before him without
a word. It was addressed to Mrs Waring, no
more.

I thought so," he said, with a laugh which

sounded harsh to the excited girl ; " and, to be
sure, you had no means of knowing. I told
you your mother was a much more important
person than I. You will see the difference
between wealth and poverty, as well as between
a father's sway and a mother's, when
you go to Eaton Square. This is your mother's
address." He wrote it hastily on a piece of
paper and pushed it towards her. Frances
had received many shocks and surprises in
the course of these days, but scarcely one
which was more startling to her simple mind
than this. The paper which her father gave
her did not bear his name. It was addressed
to Lady Markham, Eaton Square, London.
Frances turned to him an astonished gaze.
' That is where  mamma is living ? " she said.

That is  your mother's name and address,"
he answered, coldly. " I told you she was a
greater personage than L"

"But, papa "

You are not aware," he said, " that, according
to the beautiful arrangements of society,
a woman who makes a second marriage below

her is allowed to keep her first husband's name.
It is so, however. Lady Markham chose to
avail herself of that privilege. That is all, I
suppose ? You can send your letter without
any further reference to me."

Frances went away without a word, treading
softly, with a sort of suspense of life and
thought. She could not tell how she felt or
what it meant. She knew nothing about the
arrangements of society. Did it mean something
wrong, something that was impossible?
Frances could not tell how that could be  that
your father and mother should not only live
apart, but have different names. A vague
horror took possession of her mind. She went
back to her room again, and stared at that
strange piece of paper without knowing what
to make of it. Lady Markham ! It was not
to that personage she had written her poor
little simple letter. How could she say mother
to a great lady, one who was not even of the
same name ? She was far too ignorant to know
how little importance was to be attached to
this. To Frances, a name was so much. She

had never been taught anything but the
primitive symbols, the innocently conventional
alphabet of life. This new discovery filled her
with a chill horror. She took her letter out
of its envelope with the intention of destroying
that too, and letting silence  that silence
which had reigned over her life so long  fall
again and for ever between her and the mother
whose very name was not hers. But as this
impulse swept over her, her eye caught one
of the first of the little letters which had revealed
this unknown woman to her. It was
written in very large letters, such as a child
might read, and in little words. "My darling,
write to me ; I long so for you.  Your
loving Mother." Her simple mind was swept
by contending impulses, like strong winds
carrying her now one way, now another. And
unless it should be that unknown mother herself,
there was nobody in the world to whom
she could turn for counsel. Her heart revolted
against Constance, and her father had been
vexed, she could not tell how. She was incapable
of betraying the secrets of the family

to any one beyond its range. What was she
to do?"

And all this because the mother, the source
of so much disturbance in her little life, was
Lady Markham and not Mrs Waring! But
this, to the ignorance and simplicity of Frances,
was the most incomprehensible mystery of all.

Chapter XIV.

Waving went out with Constance when the sun
got low in the skies. He took a much longer
walk than was at all usual to him, and pointed
out to her many points of view. The paths
that ran among the olive woods, the little
terraces which cut up the sides of the hills,
the cool grey foliage and gnarled trunks, the
clumps of flowers  garden flowers in England,
but here as wild, and rather more common
than blades of grass  delighted her ; and her
talk delighted him. He had not gone so far
for months ; nor had he, he thought, for years
found the time go so fast. It was very different
from Frances' mild attempts at conversation.
"Do you think, papa?" "Do you remember,
papa ? "  so many references to events
so trifling, and her little talk about Tasie's

plans and Mrs Gaunt's news. Constance took
him boldly into her life and told him what
was going on in the luorld. Ah, the world !
That was the only world. He had said in
his bitterness, again and again, that Society
was as limited as any village, and duchesses
curiously like washerwoman ; but when he
found himself once more on the edge of that
great tumult of existence, he was like the old
war-horse that neighs at the sound of the
battle. He began to ask her questions about
the people he had known. He had always
been a shy, proud man, and had never thrown
himself into the stream ; but still there had
been people who had known him and liked
him, or whom he had liked : and gradually
he awakened into animation and pleasure.

When they met the old General taking his
'stroll too, before dinner, that leathern old
Indian was dazzled by the bright creature,
who walked along between them, almost as
tall as the two men, with her graceful careless
step and independent ways, not deferring
to them as the other ladies did, but leading
the conversation. Even General Gaunt began

to think whether there was any one whom
he could speak of, any one he had known,
whom perhaps this young exponent of Society
might know. She knew everybody.
Even princes and princesses had no mystery
for her. She told them what everybody said,
with an air of knowing better, which in
her meant no conceit or presumption, as in
other young persons. Constance was quite
unconscious of the possibility of being thus
judged. She was not self-conscious at all.
She was pleased to bring out her news for
the advantage of the seniors. Frances was
none the wiser when her sister told her the
change that had come over the Grandmaisons,
or how Lord Sudbury's marriage had been
brought about, and why people now had
altered their hours for the Eow. Frances
listened ; but she had never heard about Lord
Sudbury's marriage, nor why it should shock
the elegant public. But the gentleman remembered
his father, or they knew how
young men commit themselves without intending
it. It is not to be supposed that
there was anything at all risque in Constance's

talk. She touched, indeed, upon the edge
of scandals which had been in the newspapers,
and therefore were known even to people in
the Kiviera ; but she did it with the most
absolute innocence, either not knowing or not
understanding the evil. "I believe there
was something wrong, but I don't know what
mamma would never tell me," she said.
Her conversation was like a very light graceful
edition of a Society paper  not then
begun to be  with all the nastiness and
almost all the malice left out. But not quite
all ; there was enough to be piquant. " I am
afraid I am a little ill-natured ; but I don't
like that man," she would say now and then.
When she said, "I don't like that woman,"
the gentlemen laughed. She was conscious
of having a little success, and she was pleased
too. Frances perhaps might be a better
housekeeper, but Constance could not but
think that in the equally important work
of amusing papa she would be more successful
than Frances. It was not much of a
triumph, perhaps, for a girl who had known
so many ; but yet it was the only one as

yet possible in the position in which she now
was.

I suppose it is settled that Frances is to
go ? " she said, as General Gaunt took the
way to his bungalow, and she and her father
turned towards home.

"She seems to have settled it for herself,"
he said.

"I am always repeating she is so like
mamma  that is exactly what mamma would
have done. They are very positive. You and
I, papa, are not positive at all."

I think, my dear, that coming off as you
did by yourself, was very positive indeed  and
the first step in the universal turning upside-down
which has ensued."

"I hope you are not sorry I came?"

"No, Constance; I am very glad to have
you ; " and this was quite true, although he had
said to Frances something that sounded very
different. Both things were true  both that
he wished she had never left her mother ;
that he wished she might return to her
mother, and leave Frances with him as of old ;
and that he was. very glad to have her here.

VOL. L R

If I were to go back, would not everything
settle down just as it was before?"

Then he thought of what Frances, taught
by the keenness of a personal experience, had
said to him a few hours ago. "No," he said;
nothing can ever be as it was before. We
never can go back to what has been, whether
the event that has changed it has been happy
or sad."

Oh, surely sometimes," said Constance.
That is a dreadful way to talk of anything
so trifling as my visit. It could not make
any real difference, because all the facts are
just the same as they were before."

To this he made no reply. She had noway,
thanks to Frances, of finding out how
different the position was. And she went on,
after a pause  " Have you settled how she is
to go?"

I have not even thought of that."

"But, palm, you must think of it. She
cannot go unless you manage it for her.
Markham heard of those people coming, and
that made it quite easy for me. If Markham
were here "

Heaven forbid ! "

"I have always heard you were prejudiced
about Markham. I don't think he is very safe
myself. I have warned Frances, whatever she
does, not to let herself get into his hands."

Frances in Markham's hands ! That is a
thing I could not permit for a moment. Your
mother may have a right to Frances' society,
but none to throw her into the companionship
of "

Her brother, papa."

"Her brother! Her step-brother, if you
please  which I think scarcely a relationship
at all."

Waring's prejudices, when they were roused,
were strong. His daughter looked up in amazement
at his sudden passion, the frown on his
face, and the fire in his eye.

You forget that I have been brought up
with Markham," she said. " He is my brother ;
and he is a very good brother. There is
nothing he will not do for me. I only warned
Frances because  because she is different ;
because "

Because  she is a girl who ought not to

breathe the same air with a young reprobate
a young "

"Papa! you are mistaken. I don't know
what Markham may have been ; but he is nota
reprobate. It was because Frances does not
understand chaff, you know. She would think
he was in earnest, and he is never in earnest.
She would take him seriously, and nobody
takes him seriously. But if you think he is
bad, there is nobody who thinks that. He
is not bad ; he only has ways of thinking "

Which I hope my daughters will never
share," said Waring, with a little formality.

Constance raised her head as if to speak, but
then stopped, giving him a look which said
more than words, and added no more.

In the meantime, Frances had been left alone.
She had directed her letter, and left it to be
posted. That step was taken, and could no
more be thought over. She was glad to have
a little of her time to herself, which once had
been all to herself. She did not like as yet
to broach the subject of her departure to
Mariuccia ; but she thought it all over very
anxiously, trying to find some way which

would take the burden of the household off the
shoulders of Constance, who was not used to it.
She thought the best thing to do would be to
write out a series of menus, which Mariuccia
might suggest to Constance, or carry out upon
her own responsibility, whichever was most
practicable ; and she resolved that various little
offices, which she had herself fulfilled, might
be transferred to Domenico without interfering
with her father s comfort. All these arrangements,
though she turned them over very
soberly in her mind, had a bewildering, dizzying
effect upon her. She thought that it was
as if she were going to die. When she went
away out of the narrow enclosure of this world,
which she knew, it would be to something
so entirely strange to her that it would feel
like another life. It would be as if she had
died. She would not know anything ; the surroundings,
the companions, the habits, all would
be strange. She would have to leave utterly
behind her everything she had ever known.
The thought was not melancholy, as is in almost
all cases the thought of leaving " the warm precincts
of the cheerful day " ; it made her heart

swell and rise with an anticipation which was
full of excitement and pleasure, but which at
the same time had the effect of making her
brain swim.

She could not make to herself any picture of
the world to which she was going. It would be
softer, finer, more luxurious than anything she
knew ; but that was all. Of her mother, she
did try to form some idea. She was acquainted
only with mothers who were old. Mrs Durant,
who wore a cap, encircling her face, and tied
under her chin ; and Mrs Gaunt, who had
grandchildren who were as old as Frances. Her
own mother could not be like either of these ;
but still she would be old, more or less  would
wrap herself up when she went out, would have
grey, or even perhaps white hair (which Frances
liked in an old lady : Mrs Durant wore a front,
and Mrs Gaunt was suspected of dyeing her
hair), and would not care to move about more
than she could help. She would go out " into
Society " beautifully dressed with lace and
jewels ; and Frances grew more dizzy than
ever, trying to imagine herself standing behind
this magnificent old figure, like a maid of honour

behind a queen. But it was difficult to
imagine the details of a picture so completely
vague. There was a general sense of splendour
and novelty, a vague expectation of something
delightful, which it was beyond her power to
realise, but no more.

She had roused herself from the vague excitement
of these dreams, which were very absorbing,
though there was so little solidity in them,
with a sudden fear that she was losing all the
afternoon, and that it was time to prepare for
dinner. She went to the corner of the loggia
which commanded the road, to look out for
Constance and her father. The road swept
along below the Pun to, leading to the town ;
and a smaller path traversing the little height,
climbed upward to the platform on which the
Palazzo stood. Frances did not at first remark,
as in general every villager does, an unfamiliar
figure making its way up this path. Her father
and sister were not visible, and it was for them
she was looking. Presently, however, her eye
was caught by the stranger, no doubt an
English tourist, with a glass in his eye  a little
man, with a soft grey felt hat, which, when he

lifted his head to inspect the irregular structure
of the old town, gave him something the air
of a moving mushroom. His movements were
somewhat irregular, as his eyes were fixed upon
the walls, and did not serve to guide his feet,
which stumbled continually on the inequalities
of the path. His progress began to amuse her,
as he came nearer, his head raised, his eyes
fixed upon the buildings before him, his person
executing a series of undulations like a ship ina
storm. He climbed up at last to the height,
and coming up to some women who were seated
on the stone Ijench opposite to Frances on the
loggia, began to ask them for instructions as to
how he was to go.

The little scene amused Frances. The women
were knitting, with a little cluster of children
about them, scrambling upon the bench or on
the dusty pathway at their feet. The stranger
took off his big hat and addressed them with
few words and many gestures. She heard casa
and Angles, but nothing else that was comprehensible.
The women did their best to understand,
and replied volubly. But here the little
tourist evidently could not follow. He was

like so many tourist visitors, capable of asking
his question, but incapable of understanding
the answer given him. Then there arose a
shrill little tempest of laughter, in which he
joined, and of which Frances herself could not
resist the contagion. Perhaps a faint echo from
the loggia caught the ear of one of the women,
who knew her well, and who immediately
pointed her out to the stranger. The little
man turned round and made a few steps towards
the Palazzo. He took off the mushroom-top
of grey felt, and presented to her an ugly,
little, vivacious countenance. " I beg you ten
thousand pardons," he said ; " but if you speak
English, as I understand them to say, will you
be so very kind as to direct me to the house
of Mr Waring? Ah, I am sure you are both
English and kind ! They tell me he lives near
here."

Frances looked down from her height demurely,
suppressing the too ready laugh, to
listen to this queer little man ; but his question
took her very much by surprise. Another
stranger asking for Mr Waring ! But oh, so
very different a one from Constance  an odd,

little, ugly man, looking up at her in a curious
one-sided attitude, with his glass in his eye.
He lives here," she said.

"What? Where?" He had replaced his
mushroom on his head, and he cocked up towards
her one ear, the ear upon the opposite
side to the eye which wore the glass.

Here ! " cried Frances, pointing to the
house, with a laugh which she could not restrain.


The stranger raised his eyebrows so much
and so suddenly that his glass fell. " Oh ! " he
cried  but the biggest 0, round as the of
Giotto, as the Italians say. He paused there
some time, looking at her, his mouth retaining
the shape of that exclamation ; and then he
cast an investigating glance along the wall, and
asked, " How am I to get in ? "

Nunziata, show the gentleman the door,"
cried Frances to one of the women on the
bench. She lingered a moment, to look again
down the road for her father. It was true that
nothing could be so wonderful as what had
already happened ; but it seemed that surprises
were not yet over. Would this be someone

else who had known him, who was arriving
full of the tale that had been told, and was a
mystery no longer  some 'told friend" like Mr
Mannering, who would not be satisfied without
betraying the harmless hermit, whom some
chance had led him to discover? There was
some bitterness in Frances' thoughts. She had
not remembered the Mannerings before, in the
rush of other things to think of. The fat
ruddy couple, so commonplace and so comfortable
I Was it all their doing ? Were they to
blame for everything ? for the conclusion of one
existence, and the beginning of another ? She
went in to the drawing-room and sat down
there, to be ready to receive the visitor. He
could not be so importantthat was impossible
; there could be no new mystery to record.

When the door opened and Domenico solemnly
ushered in the stranger, Frances, although
her thoughts were not gay, could
scarcely help laughing again. He carried his
big grey mushroom-top now in his hand ; and
the little round head which had been covered
with it seemed incomplete without that thatch.
Frances felt herself looking from the head to

the hat with a ludicrous sense of this incompleteness.
He had a small head, thinly covered
with light hair, which seemed to grow in tufts
like grass. His eyes twinkled keen, two very
bright grey eyes, from the puckers of eyelids
which looked old, as if he had got them secondhand.
There was a worn and wrinkled look
about him altogether, carried out in his dress,
and even in his boots, which suggested the
same idea. An old man who looked young, ora
young man who looked old. She could not
make out which he was. He did not bow and
hesitate, and announce himself as a friend of
her father's, as she expected him to do, but
came up to her briskly with a quick step), buta
shuffle in his gait.

I suppose I must introduce myself," he
said ; " though it is odd that we should need an
introduction to each other, you and I. After
the first moment, I should have known you
anywhere. You are quite like my mother.
Frances, isn't it ? And I'm Markham, of course,
you know."

"Markham!" cried Frances. She had thought
she could never be surprised again, after all

that had happened. But she felt herself more
astonished than ever now.

Yes, Markham. You think I am not much
to look at, I can see. I am not generally
admired at the first glance. Shake hands,
Frances. You don't quite feel like giving mea
kiss, I suppose, at the first offset ? Never
mind. We shall be very good friends, after a
while."

He sat down, drawing a chair close to her.
I am very glad to find you by yourself. I
like the looks of you. Where is Con ? Taken
possession of the governor, and left you alone
to keep house, I should suppose ? "

Constance has gone out to walk with papa.
I had several things to do."

I have not the least doubt of it. That
would be the usual distribution of labour, if
you remained together. Fan, my mother has
sent me to fetch you home."

Frances drew a little farther away. She gave
him a look of vague alarm. The familiarity of
the address troubled her. But when she looked
at him again, her gravity gave way. He was
such a queer, such a very queer little man.

You may laugh if you like, my dear," he
said. " I am used to it. Providence  always
the best judge, no doubt  has not given me an
awe-inspiring countenance. It is hard upon
my mother, who is a pretty woman. But I
accept the position, for my part. This is a
charming place. You have got a number of
nice things. And those little sketches are very
tolerable. Who did them ? You ? AVaring,
so far as I remember, used to draw very well
himself. I am glad you draw ; it will give you
a little occupation. I like the looks of you,
though I don't think you admire me."

Indeed," said Frances, troubled, " it is
because I am so much surprised. Are you
really  are you sure you are "

He gave a little chuckle, which made her
start  an odd, comical, single note of laughter,
very cordial and very droll, like the little man
himself.

I've got a servant with me," he said,
"down at the hotel, who knows that I go by
the name of Markham when I'm at home. I
don't know if that will satisfy you. But Conto
be sure, knows me, which will be better.

You don't hear any voice of nature saying
within your breast, ' This is my long-lost
brother ? ' That's a pity. But by-and-by,
you'll see, we'll be very good friends."

Oh, I didn't mean that I had any doubt. It
is so great a surprise  one thing after another."

Now, answer me one question : Did you
know anything about your family before Con
came ? Ah," he said, catching her alarmed and
wondering glance, " I thought not. I have
always said so :  he never told you. And it
has all burst upon you in a moment, you poor
little thing. But you needn't be afraid of us.
My mother has her faults ; but she is a nice
woman. You will like her. And I am very
queer to look at, and many people think I have
a screw loose. But I'm not bad to live with.
Have you settled it with the governor? Has
he made many objections ? He and I never
drew well together. Perhaps you know ? "

He does not speak as if  he liked you. But
I don't know anything. I have not been told
much. Please don't ask me things," Frances
cried.

No, I will not.' On the contrary, I'll tell

you everything. Con probably would put a
spoke in my wheel too. My dear little Fan,
don't mind any of them. Give me your little
hand. I am neither bad nor good. I am very
much what people make me. I am nasty with
the nasty sometimes  more shame to me : and
disagreeable with the disagreeable. But I am
innocent with the innocent," he said with some
earnestness ; " and that is what you are, unless
my eyes deceive me. You need not be afraid
of me."

I am not afraid," said Frances, looking at
him. Then she added, after a pause, " Not of
you, nor of any one. I have never met any
bad people. I don't believe any one would dome
harm."

Nor I," he said with a little fervour, patting
her hand with his own. "All the same," he
added, after a moment, " it is perhaps wise not
to give them the chance. So I've come to fetch
you home."

Frances, as she became accustomed to this
remarkable new member of her family, began
immediately, after her fashion, to think of the
material necessities of the case. She could not

start with him at once on the journey ; and in
the meantime where should she put him ? The
most natural thing seemed to be to withdraw
again from the blue room, and take the little
one behind, which looked out on the court.
That would do, and no one need be any the
wiser. She said, with a little hesitation, " I
must go now and see about your room."

Room ! " he cried. " Oh no ; there's no
occasion for a room. I wouldn't trouble you
for the world. I have got rooms at the hotel.
I'll not stay even, since daddy's out, to meet
him. You can tell him I'm here, and what I
came for. If he wants to see me, he can look
me up. I am very glad I have seen you. I'll
write to the mother to-night to say you're quite
satisfactory, and a credit to all your belongings ;
and I'll come tomorrow to see Con ; and in the
meantime. Fan, you must settle when you are
to come ; for it is an awkward time for a man
to be loafing about here."

He got up as he spoke, and stooping, gave
her a serious brotherly kiss upon her forehead.
I hope you and I will be very great friends,"
he said.

VOL. I. S

And then he was gone ! Was he a dream
only, an imagination ? But he was not the sort
of figure that imagination produces. No dream-man
could ever be so comical to behold, could
ever wear a coat so curiously wrinkled, or those
boots, in the curves of which the dust lay as in
the inequalities of the dry and much-frequented
road.

Chapter XY.

The walk with Constance, tliongli he had set
out upon it reluctantly, had done Waring
great good. He was comparatively rehabilitated
in his own eyes. Between her and him
there was no embarrassment, no uneasy consciousness.
She had paid him the highest
compliment by taking refuge with him, flying
to his protection from the tyranny of her
mother, and giving him thus a victory as
sweet as unexpected over that nearest yet
furthest of all connections, that inalienable
antagonist in life. He had been painfully
put out of son assiette, as the French say.
Instead , of the easy superiority which he had
held not only in his own house, but in the
limited society about, he had been made to
stand at the bar, first by his own child, afterwards

by the old clergyman, for whom lie
entertained a kindly contempt. Both of these
simple wits had called upon him to account
for his conduct. It was the most extraordinary
turning of the tables that ever had
occurred to a man like himself. And though
he had spoken the truth when in that moment
of melting he had taken his little girl
into his arms and bidden her stay with him,
he was yet glad now to get away from Frances,
to feel himself occupying his proper place with
her sister, and to return thus to a more natural
state of affairs. The intercourse between him
and his child-companion had been closer than
ever could, he believed, exist between him and
any other human being whatsoever ; but it
had been rent in twain by all the concealments
which he was conscious of, by all the
discoveries which circumstances had forced
upon her. He could no longer be at his
ease with her, or she regard him as of old.
The attachment was too deep, the interruption
too hard, to be reconcilable with that
calm which is necessary to ordinary existence.
Constance had restored him to herself by her

This comfortable state of mind, however, did
not last long. Frances met them at the door
with her face full of excitement. " Did you
meet him?" she said. "You must have met
him. He has not been gone ten minutes."

Meet whom ? We met no one but the
General."

I think I know," cried Constance. " I have
been expecting him every day  Markham."

"He says he has come to fetch me, papa."
"Markham!" cried Waring. His face clouded
over in a moment. It is not easy to get rid of
the past. He had accomplished it for a dozen
years ; and after a very bad moment, he thought
he was about to shuffle it off again ; but it was
evident that in this he was premature. " I will
not allow you to go with Markham," he said.
"Don't say anything more. Your mother
ought to have known better. He is not an
escort I choose for my daughter."

"Poor old Markham! he is a very nice
escort," said Constance, in her easy way.
There is no harm in him, papa. But never
mind till after dinner, and then we can talk
it over. You are ready. Fan? Oh, then I
must fly. We have had a delightful walk.
I never knew anything about fathers before ;
they are the most charming companions," she
said, kissing her hand to him as she went
away. But this did not mollify the angry
man. There rose up before him the recollection
of a hundred contests in which Markham's
voice had come in to make everything

worse, or of which Markliam's escapades had
been the cause.

I will not see him," he said ; " I will not
sanction his presence here. You must give up
the idea of going altogether, till he is out of
the way."

I think, papa, you must see him."

Must  there is no must. I have not been
in the habit of acknowledging compulsion, and
be assured that I shall not begin now. You
seem to expect that your small affairs are to
upset my whole life ! "

"I suppose," said Frances, "my affairs are
small ; but then they are my life too."

She ought to have been subdued into silence
by his first objection ; but, on the contrary, she
met his angry eyes with a look which was deprecating,
but not abject, holding her little own.
It was a long time since Waring had encountered
anything which he could not subdue and
put aside out of his path. But, he said to himself
 all that long restrained and silent temper
which had once reigned and raged within him,
springing up again unsubdued  he might have

known ! The moment long deferred, yet inevitable,
which brought him in contact once more
with his wife, could bring nothing with it but
pain. Strife breathed from her wherever she
appeared. He had never been a match for her
and her boy, even at his best ; and now that he
had forgotten the ways of battle  now that his
strength was broken with long quiet, and the
sword had fallen from his hand  she had a pull
over him now which she had not possessed
before. He could have done without both the
children a dozen years ago. He was conscious
that it was more from self-assertion than from
love that he had carried off the little one, who
was rather an embarrassment than a pleasure
in those days  because he would not let her
have everything her own way. But now,
Frances was no longer a creature without
identity, not a thing to be handed from one
to another. He could not free himself of interest
in her, of responsibility for her, of feeling
his honour and credit implicated in all that
concerned her. Ah ! that woman knew. She
had a hold upon him that she never had before;
and the first use she made of it was to insult

him  to send her son, whom he hated, for his
daughter, to force him into unwilling intercourse
with her family once more.

Frances took the opportunity to steal away
while her father gloomily pursued these
thoughts. What a change from the tranquillity
which nothing disturbed ! now one
day after another, there was some new thing
that stirred up once more the original pain.
There was no end to it. The mother's letters
at one moment, the brother's arrival at another,
and no more quiet whatever could be
done, no more peace.

Nevertheless, dinner and the compulsory decorum
which surrounds that great daily event,
had its usual tranquillising effect. Waring
could not shut out from his mind the consciousness
that to refuse to see his wife's son,
the brother of his own children, was against
all the decencies of life. It is easy to say
that you will not acknowledge social compulsion,
but it is not so easy to carry out that
determination. By the time that dinner was
over, he had begun to perceive that it was
impossible. He took no part, indeed, in the

conversation, lightly maintained, by Constance,
about lier brother, made short replies even
when he was directly addressed, and kept up
more or less the lowering aspect with which
he had meant to crush Frances. But Frances
was not crushed, and Constance was excited
and gay. " Let us send for him after dinner,"
she said. " He is always amusing.
There is nothing Markham does not know.
I have seen nobody for a fortnight, and no
doubt a hundred things have happened. Do
send for Markham, Frances. Oh, you must
not look at papa. I know papa is not fond
of him. Dear ! if you think one can be fond
of everybody one meets  especially one's connections.
Everybody knows that you hate
half of them. That makes it piquant. There
is nobody you can say such spiteful things to
as people whom you belong to, whom you call
by their Christian names."

"That is a charming Christian sentiment 
entirely suited to the surroundings you have
been used to. Con; but not to your sister's."

"Oh, my sister! She has heard plenty of
hard things said of that good little Tasie, who

is her chief friend. Frances wouki not say
them herself. She doesn't know how. But
her surroundings are not so ignorant. You
are not called upon to assume so much virtue,
papa."

I think you forget a little to whom you are
speaking," said Waring, with quick anger.

Papa ! " cried Constance, with an astonished
look, " I think it is you who forget. We are
not in the middle ages. Mamma failed to
remember that. I hope you have not forgotten
too, or I shall be sorry I came here."

He looked at her with a sudden gleam of rage
in his eyes. That temper which had fallen into
disuse was no more overcome than when all this
trouble began ; but he remained silent, putting
force upon himself, though he could not quite
conceal the struggle. At last he burst into an
angry laugh : " You will train me, perhaps, intime
to the subjection which is required from
the nineteenth-century parent," he said.

*' You are charming," said his daughter, with a
bow and smile across the table. " There is only
this lingering trace of medievalism in respect to
Markham. But you know, papa, really a feud

can't exist in these days. Now, answer me
yourself; can it? It would subject us all to
ridicule. My experience is that people as a rule
are not fond of each other; but to show it is
quite a different thing. Oh no, papa ; no one
can do that."

She was so certain of what she said, so calm
in the enunciation of her dogmas, that he only
looked at her and made no other reply. And
when Constance appealed to Frances whether
Domenico should not be sent to the hotel to call
Markham, he avoided the inquiring look which
Frances cast at him. " If papa has no objection,"
she said with hesitation and alarm.
Oh, papa can have no objection," Constance
cried ; and the message was sent ; and Markham
came. Frances, frightened, 'made many attempts
to excuse herself ; but her father would
neither see nor hear the efforts she made. He
retired to the workroom, while the girls entertained
their visitor on the loggia ; or rather,
while he entertained them. Waring heard the
voices mingled with laughter, as we all hear the
happier intercourse of others when we are ourselves
in gloomy opposition, nursing our wrath.

He thought they were all the more lively, all
the more gay, because he was displeased. Even
Frances. He forgot that he had made up his
mind that Frances had better go (as she wished
to go), and felt that she was a little monster to
take so cordially to the stranger whom she knew
he disliked and disapproved. Nevertheless, in
spite of this irritation and misery, the little lecture
of Constance on what was conventionally
necessary had so much effect upon him, that he
appeared on the loggia before Markham went
away, and conquered himself sufficiently to
receive, if not to make much response to the salutations
which his wife's son offered. Markham
jumped up from his seat with the greatest cordiality,
when this tall shadow appeared in the
soft darkness. " I can't tell you how glad I am
to see you, sir, after all these years. I hope I
am not such a nuisance as I was when you
knew me before  at the ao;e when all males
should be kept out of sight of their seniors, as
the sage says."

What sage was that ? Ah ! his experience
was all at second-hand."

Not like yours, sir," said Markham. And

then there was a slight pause, and Constance
struck in.

"Markham is a great institution to people
who don't get the ' Morning Post.' He has told
me a heap of things. In a fortnight, when one
is not on the spot, it is astonishing what quantities
of things happen. In town one gets used
to having one's gossip hot and hot every day."

The advantage of abstinence is that you getup
such an appetite for your next meal. I had
only a few items of news. My mother gave
me many messages for you, sir. She hopes
you will not object to trust little Frances to
my care."

"I object  to trust my child to any one's
care," said Waring, quickly.

"I beg your pardon. You intend, then, to
take my sister to England yourself," the stranger
said.

It was dark, and their faces were invisible
to each other ; but the girls looking on saw a
momentary swaying of the tall figure towards
the smaller one, which suggested something like
a blow. Frances had nearly sprung from her
seat ; but Constance 'put out her hand and

restrained her. She judged rightly. Passion
was strong in Waring's mind. He could, had
inclination prevailed, have seized the little man
by the coat, and pitched him out into the road
below. But bonds were upon him more potent
than if they had been made of iron.

I have no such intention," he said. " I
should not have sent her at all. But it seems
she wishes to go. I will not interfere with her
arrangements. But she must have some time
to prepare."

As long as she likes, sir," said Markham,
cheerfully. " A few days more out of the east
wind will be delightful to me."

And no more passed between them. Waring
strolled about the loggia with his cigarette.
Though Frances had made haste to provide a
new chair as easy as the other, he had felt
himself dislodged, and had not yet settled into
a new place ; and when he joined them in the
evening, he walked about or sat upon the wall,
instead of lounging in indolent comfort, as in
the old quiet days. On this evening lie stood
at the corner, looking down upon the lights
of the Marina in the distance, and the grey

twinkle of the olives in the clear air of the
night. The poor neighbours of the little town
were still on the Punto, enjoying the coolness
of the evening hours ; and the murmur of their
talk rose on one side, a little softened by distance
; while the group on the loggia renewed
its conversation close at hand. Waring stood
and listened with a contempt which he partially
knew to be unjust. But he was sore and
bitter, and the ease and gaiety seemed a kind
of insult to him, one of many insults which
he was of opinion he had received from his
wife's son. " Confounded little fool," he said to
himself.

But Constance was right in her worldly wisdom.
It would make them all ridiculous if
he made objections to Markham, if he showed
openly his distaste to him. The world was buta
small world at Bordighera ; but yet it was not
without its power. The interrupted conversation
went on with great vigour. He remarked
with a certain satisfaction that Frances talked
very little ; but Constance and her brother  ashe
called himself, the puppy !  never paused.
There is no such position for seeing the worst of

ordinary conversation. Waring stood looking
out blankly upon the bewildering lines of the
hills towards the west, with the fresh breeze in
his face, and his cigarette only kept alight by a
violent puff now and then, listening to the lively
chatter. How vacant it was  about this
one and that one ; about So-and-so's peculiarities
; about things not even made clear; which
each understood at half a word, which made
them laugh. Good heavens ! at what ? Not at
the wit of it, for there was no wit  at some
ludicrous image involved, which to the listener
was dull, dull as the village chatter on the other
side ; but more dull, more vapid in its artificial
ring. How they echoed each other, chiming in ;
how they remembered anecdotes to the discredit
of their friends ; how they ran on in the same
circle endlessly, with jests that were without
point even to Frances, who sat listening in an
eager tension of interest, but could not keep upto
the height of the talk, which was all about
people she did not know  and still more without
point to Waring, who had known, but knew
no longer, and who was angry and mortified and
VOL. I. T

bitter, feeling his supremacy taken from him in
his own house, and all his habits shattered : yet
knew very well that he could not resist, that to
show his dislike would only make him ridiculous
; that he was once more subject to Society,
and dare not show his contempt for its bonds.

After a while, he flung his half-finished cigarette
over the wall, and stalked away, with a
brief, "Excuse me, but I must say good-night."
Markham sprang up from his chair ; but his
step-father only waved his hand to the little
party sitting in the evening darkness, and went
away, his footsteps sounding upon the marble
floor through the salojie and the ante-room,
closing the doors behind him. There was a
little silence as he disappeared.

"Well," said Markham, with a long-drawn
breath, " that's over. Con ; and better than
might have been expected."

Better ! Do you call that better ? I should
say almost as bad as could be. Why didn't
you stand up to him and have it out ? "

My dear, he always cows me a little," said
Markham. " I remember times when I stood

up to him, as you say, with that idiocy of
youth in which you are so strong, Con ; but I
think I generally came off second-best. Our
respected papa has a great gift of language
when he likes."

He does not like now, he is too old ; he
has given up that sort of thing. Ask Frances.
She thinks him the mildest of pious
fathers."

"If you please," said the little voice of
Frances out of the gloom, with a little quiver
in it, "I wish you would not speak about
papa so, before me. It is perhaps quite right
of you, who have no feeling for him, or don't
know him very well ; but with me it is quite
different. Whether you are right or wrong, I
cannot have it, please."

The little thing is quite right. Con," said
Markham. '' I beg your pardon, little Fan. I
have a great respect for papa, though he has
none for me. Too old ! He is not so old as I
am, and a much more estimable member of
society. He is not old enough  that is the
worst of it  for you and me."

I am not going to encourage her in her
nonsense," said Constance, " as if one's father
or mother was something sacred, as if they
were not just human beings like ourselves.
But apart from that, as I have told Frances,
I think very well of papa."

CHAPTER XVI.

There was no more said for a day or two about
the journey. But that it was to take place,
that Markham was waiting till his step-sister
was ready, and that Frances was making her
preparations to go, nobody any longer attempted
to ignore. Waring himself had gone
so far in his recognition of the inevitable as to
give Frances money to provide for the necessities
of the journey. " You will want things,"
he said. " I don't wish it to be thought that I
kept you like a little beggar."

"I am not like a little beggar, papa," cried
Frances, with an indignation which scarcely any
of the more serious grievances of her life had
called forth. She had always supposed him
to be pleased with the British neatness, the
modest, girlish costumes which she had procured

for herself by instinct, and which made
this girl, who knew nothing of England, so
characteristically an English girl. This proof
of the man's io-france  which Frances ignorantly
supposed to mean entire indifference to
her appearance  went to her heart. " And it is
impossible to get things here," she added, with
her usual anxious penitence for her impatience.

You can do it in Paris, then," he said. " I
suppose you have enough of the instincts of
your sex to buy clothes in Paris."

Girls are not fond of hearing of the instincts
of their sex. She turned away with a speechless
vexation and distress which it pleased him to
think rudeness.

But she keeps the money all the same," he
said to himself.

Thus it became very apparent that the departure
of Frances was desirable, and that she
could not go too soon. But there were still
inevitable delays. Strange ! that when love
embittered made her stay intolerable, the
washerwoman should have compelled it. But
to Frances, for the moment, everything in life
was strange.

And not the least strange was the way in
which Markham, whom she liked, but did not
understand  the odd, little, shabby, unlovely
personage, who looked like anything in the
world but an individual of importance  was
received by the little world of Bordighera. At
the little church on Sunday, there was a faint
stir when he came in, and one lady pointed him
out to another as the small audience filed out.
The English landlady at the hotel spoke of
him continually. Lord Markham was now the
authority whom she quoted on all subjects.
Even Domenico said " milord" with a relish.
And as for the Durants, their enthusiasm was
boundless. Tasie, not yet quite recovered from
the excitement of Constance's arrival, lost her
self-control altogether when Markham appeared.
It was so oood of him to come to church, she
said ; such an example for the people at the
hotels ! And so nice to lose so little time incoming
to call upon papa. Of course, papa, as
the clergyman, would have called upon him as
soon as it was known where he was staying.
But it was so pretty of Lord Markham to conform
to foreign ways and make the first visit.

"We knew it must be sour doing, Frances," she
said, with grateful delight.

"But, indeed, it was not my doing. It is
Constance who makes him come," Frances
cried.

Constance, indeed, insisted upon his company
everywhere. She took him not only to the
Durants, but to the bungalow up among the
olive woods, which they found in great excitement,
and where the appearance of Lord Markham
partially failed of its effect, a greater hero
and stranger being there. George Gaunt, the
General's youngest son, the chief subject of his
mother's talk, the one of her children about
whom she always had something to say, had
arrived the day before, and in his presence
even a living lord sank into a secondary place.
Mrs Gaunt had been the first to see the little
party coming along by the terraces of the olive
woods. She had, long, long ago, formed plans
in her imagination of what might ensue when
George came home. She ran out to meet them
with her hands extended. " Oh Frances, I am
so glad to see you ! Only fancy what has happened.
George has come ! "

I am so glad," said Frances, who was the
first. She was more used to the winding of
those terraces, and then she had not so much
to talk of as Constance and Markham. Her
face lighted up with pleasure. "How happy
you must be ! " she said, kissing the old lady
affectionately. "Is he well?"

Oh, wonderfully well ; so much better than
I could have hoped. George, George, where
are you ? Oh, my dear, I am so anxious that
you should meet ! I want you to like him," Mrs
Gaunt said.

Almost for the first time there came a sting
of pain to Frances' heart. She had heard a
great deal of George Gaunt. She had thought
of him more than of any other stranger. She
had wondered what he would be like, and smiled
to herself at his mother's too evident anxiety
to bring them together, with a slight, not disagreeable
flutter of interest in her own consciousness.
And now here he was, and she
was going away ! It seemed a sort of spite of
fortune, a tantalising of circumstances ; though,
to be sure, she did not know whether she
should like him, or if Mrs Gaunt's hopes might

bear any fruit. Still, it was the only outlet
her imagination had ever had, and it had
amused and given her a pleasant fantastic
glimpse now and then into something that
might be more exciting than the calm round
of every day.

She stood on the little grassy terrace which
surrounded the house, looking towards the open
door, but not taking any step towards it, waiting
for the hero to appear. The house was low
and broad, with a veranda round it, planted in
the midst of the olive groves, where there was
a little clearing, and looking down upon the
sea. Frances paused there, with her face towards
the house, and saw coming out from
under the shadow of the veranda, with a certain
awkward celerity, the straight slim figure of the
young Indian officer, his mother's hero, and, ina
visionary sense, her own. She did not advance
 she could not tell why  but waited till
he should come up, while his mother turned
round, beckoning to him. This was how it
was that Constance and Markham arrived upon
the scene before the introduction was fully accomplished.
Frances held out her hand, and

he took it, coming forward ; but already his
eyes had travelled over her head to the other
pair arriving, with a look of inquiry and surprise.
He let Frances' hand drop as soon ashe
had touched it, and turned towards the
other, who was much more attractive than
Frances. Constance, who missed nothing, gave
him a glance, and then turned to his mother.
'ewe brought our brother to see you," she said
(as Frances had not had presence of mind todo).
" Lord Markham, Mrs Gaunt. But we
have come at an inappropriate moment, when
you are occupied."

Oh no ! It is so kind of you to come.
This is my son George, Miss Waring. He
arrived last night. I have so wanted him to

meet " She did not say Frances ; but she

looked at the little girl, who was quite eclipsed
and in the background, and then hurriedly
added, " your  family : whose name he knows,
as such friends ! And how kind of Lord Markham
to come all this way ! "

She was not accustomed to lords, and the
mother's mind jumped at once to the vain, but
so usual idea, that this lord, who had himself

sought the acquaintance, might be of use to
her son. She brought forward George, who
was a little dazzled too ; and it was not till
the party had been swept into the veranda,
where the family sat in the evening, that Mrs
Gaunt became aware that Frances had followed,
the last of the train, and had seated herself on
the outskirts of the group, no one paying any
heed to her. Even then, she was too much
under the influence of the less known visitors
to do anything to put this right.

I am delighted that you think me kind,"
said Markham, in answer to the assurances
which Mrs Gaunt kept repeating, not knowing
what to say. " My step-father is not of
that opinion at all. Neither will you be, I
fear, when you know my mission. I have
come for Frances."

"For Frances!" she cried, with a little suppressed
scream of dismay.

Ah, I said you would not be of that opinion
long," Markham said.

Is Frances going away ? " said the old
General. " I don't think we can stand that.
Eh, George ? that is not what your mother

promised you. Frances is all we have got
to remind us that we were young once. Waring
must hear reason. He must not let her
go away."

"Frances is going; but Constance stays,"
interposed that young lady. General, I hope
you will adopt me in her stead."

"That I will," said the old soldier; "that
is, I will adopt you in addition, for we cannot
give up Frances. Though, if it is only for a
short visit, if you pledge yourself to bring her
back again, I suppose we will have to give our
consent."

"Not I," said Mrs Gaunt under her breath.
She whispered to her son, " Go and talk to
her. This is not Frances ; that is Frances,"
leaning over his shoulder.

George did not mean to shake off her hand ;
but he made a little impatient movement, and
turned the other way to Constance, to whom
he made some confused remark.

All the conversation was about Frances ; but
she took no part in it, nor did any one turn to
her to ask her own opinion. She sat on the
edge of the veranda, half hidden by the luxuriant

orrowtli of a rose which covered one of the
pillars, and looked out rather wistfully, it must
be allowed, over the grey clouds of olives in
the foreground, to the blue of the sea beyond.
It was twilight under the shade of the veranda
; but outside, a subdued daylight, on the
turn towards night. The little talk about her
was very flattering, but somehow it did not
have the effect it might have had ; for though
they all spoke of her as of so much importance,
they left her out with one consent. Not exactly
with one consent. Mrs Gaunt, standing up,
looking from one to another, hurt  though
causelessly  beyond expression by the careless
movement of her newly returned boy, would
have gone to Frances, had she not been held
by some magnetic attraction which emanated
from the others  the lord who might be of
use  the young lady, whose careless ease and
self-confidence were dazzling to simple people.

Neither the General nor his wife could realise
that she was merely Frances' sister, Waring's
daughter. She was the sister of Lord Markham.
She was on another level altogether from
the little girl who had been so pleasant to them

all, and so sweet. They were very sorry that
Frances was going away ; but the other one
required attention, had to be thought of, and
put in the chief place. As for Frances, who
knew them all so well, she would not mind.
And thus even Mrs Gaunt directed her attention
to the new-comer.

Frances thought it was all very natural, and
exactly what she wished. She was glad, very
glad that they should take to Constance ; that
she should make friends with all the old friends
who to herself had been so tender and kind.
But there was one thing in which she could not
help but feel a little disappointed, disconcerted,
cast down. She had looked forward to George.
She had thought of this new element in the
quiet village life with a pleasant flutter of her
heart. It had been natural to think of him
as falling more or less to her own share, partly
because it would be so in the fitness of things,
she being the youngest of all the society  the
girl, as he would be the boy ; and partly because
of his mother's fond talk, which was full
of innocent hints of her hopes. That George
should come when she was just going away,

was bad enough ; but that they should have
met like this, that he should have touched her
hand almost without looking at her, that he
should not have had the most momentary
desire to make acquaintance with Frances,
whose name he must have heard so often, that
gave her a real pang. To be sure, it was only
a pang of the imagination. She had not fallen
in love with his photograph, which did not
represent an Adonis ; and it was something,
half a brother, half a comrade, not (consciously)
a lover, for which Frances had looked in him.
But yet it gave her a very strange, painful,
deserted sensation when she saw him look over
her head at Constance, and felt her hand dropped
as soon as taken. She smiled a little at herself,
when she came to think of it, saying to herself
that she knew very well Constance was far
more charming, far more pretty than she, and
that it was only natural she should take the
first place. Frances was ever anxious to yield
to her the first place. But she could not help
that quiver of involuntary feeling. She was
hurt, though it was all so natural. It was
natural, too, that she should be hurt, and that

nobody should take any notice  all the most
everyday things in the world.

George Gaunt came to the Palazzo next day.
He came in the afternoon with his father, to be
introduced to Waring ; and he came again after
dinner  for these neighbours did not entertain
each other at the working-day meals, so to
speak, but only in light ornamental ways, with
cups of tea or black coffee  with both his
parents to spend the evening. He was thin
and of a slightly greenish tinge in his brownness,
by reason of India and the illnesses he
had gone through ; but his slim figure had a
look of power ; and he had kind eyes, like his
mother's, under the hollows of his brows : nota
handsome young man, yet not at all common
or ordinary, with a soldier's neatness and upright
bearing. To see Markham beside him
with his insignificant figure, his little roundhead
tufted with sandy hair, his one - sided
look with his glass in his eye, or his ear tilted
up on the opposite side, was as good as a sermon
upon race and its advantages. For Markham
was the fifteenth lord; and the Gauuts
were, it was understood, of as good as no family

VOL. L u

at all. Captain George from that first evening
had neither ear nor eye for any one but Constance.
He followed her about shyly wherever
she moved ; he stood over her when she
sat down. He said little, for he was shy, poor
fellow ; yet he did sometimes hazard a remark,
which was always subsidiary or responsive to
something she had said.

Mrs Gaunt's distress at this subversion of all
she had intended was great. She got Frances
into a corner of the loggia while the others
talked, and thrust upon her a pretty sandalwood
box inlaid with ivory, one of those that
George had brought from India. " It was
always intended for you, dear," she said. '' Of
course he could not venture to offer it himself."


But, dear Mrs Gaunt," said Frances, with
a low laugh, in which all her little bitterness
evaporated, "I don't think he has so much as
seen my face. I am sure he would not know
me if we met in the road."

Oh, my dear child," cried poor Mrs Gaunt,
"it has been such a disappointment to me. I
have just cried my eyes out over it. To think

you should not have taken to each other after
all my dreams and hopes."

Frances laughed again ; but she did not say
that there had been no failure of interest on
her side. She said, " I hope he will soon be
quite strong and well. You will write and tell
me about everybody."

*' Indeed I will. Oh Frances, is it possible
that you are going so soon ? It does not
seem natural that you should be going, and
that your sister should stay."

"Not very natural," said Frances, with a
composure which was less natural still. " But
since it is to be, I hope you will see as much
of her as you can, dear Mrs Gaunt, and be as
kind to her as you have been to me."

Oh, my dear, there is little doubt that I
shall see a great deal of her," said the mother,
with a glance towards the other group, of which
Constance was the central figure. She was lying
back in the big wicker-work chair ; with the
white hands and arms, which showed out of
sleeves shorter than were usual in Bordighera,
very visible in the dusk, accompanying her
talk by lively gestures. The young captain

stood like a sentinel a little behind her. His
mother's glance was half vexation and half pleasure.
She thought it was a great thing for a
girl to have secured the attentions of her boy,
and a very sad thing for the girl who had not
secured them. Any doubt that Constance might
not be grateful, had not yet entered her thoughts.
Frances, though she was so much less experienced,
saw the matter in another light.

"You must remember," she said, "that she
has been brought up very differently. She has
been used to a great deal of admiration, Markham
says."

And now you will come in for that, and
she must take what she can get here." Mrs
Gaunt's tone when she said this showed that
she felt, whoever was the loser, it would not
be Constance. Frances shook her head.

It will be very different with me. And
dear Mrs Gaunt, if Constance should not  do
as you wish "

My dear, I will not interfere. It never
does any good when a mother interferes," Mrs
Gaunt said hurriedly. Her mind was incapable
of pursuing the idea which Frances so timidly

had endeavoured to suggest. And what could
the girl do more ?

Next day she went away. Her father, pale
and stern, took leave of her in the workroom
with an air of offence and displeasure which went
to Frances' heart. " I will not come to the
station. You will have, no doubt, everybody
at the station. I don't like greetings in the
market-places," he said.

Papa," said Frances, " Mariuccia knows
everything. I am sure she will be careful. She
says she will not trouble Constance more than
is necessary. And I hope "

Oh, we shall do very well, I don't doubt."

I hope you will forgive me, papa, for all I
may have done wrong. I hope you will not
miss me ; that is, I hope  oh, I hope you will
miss me a little, for it breaks my heart when
you look at me like that."

We shall do very well," said Waring, not
looking at her at all, " both you and I."

And you have nothing to say to me, papa ? "

Nothing  except that I hope you will like
your new life and find everything pleasant.
Good-bye, my dear; it is time you were going."

VOL. I. X

And that was all. Everybody was at the
station, it was true, which made it no place for
leave-takings ; and Frances did not know that
he watched the train from the loggia till the
white plume of steam disappeared with a roar
in the next of those many tunnels that spoil
the beautiful Cornice road. Constance walked
back in the midst of the Gaunts and Durants,
looking, as she always did, the mistress of the
situation. But neither did Frances, blotted out
in the corner of the carriage, crying behind her
veil and her handkerchief, leaving all she knew
behind her, understand with what a tug at her
heart Constance saw the familiar little ugly face
of her brother for the last time at the carriage-window,
and turned back to the deadly monotony
of the shelter she had sought for herself,
with a sense that everything was over, and
she herself completely deserted, like a wreck
upon a desolate shore.

Chapter XVII.

Yes, I hope you will come and see me often.
Oh yes, I shall miss my sister ; but then I shall
have all the more of papa. Good night. Goodnight.
Captain Gaunt. No ; I don't sketch ;
that was Frances. I don't know the country
either. It was my sister who knew it. I am
quite ignorant and useless. Good night."

Waring, who was on the loggia, heard this
in the clear tones of his only remaining companion.
He heard her come in afterwards with
a step more distinct than that of Frances, asher
voice carried farther. He said to himself
that everything was more distinct about this

VOL. II. A

girl, and he was glad that she was coming,
glad of some relief from the depression which
overcame him against his will. She came
across one room after another, and out upon
the loggia, throwing herself down listlessly
in the usurped chair. It did not occur to
him that she was unaware of his presence, and
he was surprised that she said nothing. But
after a minute or two, there could be no doubt
why it was that Constance did not speak.
There was no loud outburst of emotion, buta
low suppressed sound, which it was impossible
to mistake. She said, after a moment,
to herself, " What a fool I am ! " But even
this reflection did not stem the tide. A sensation
of utter solitude had seized upon her.
She was abandoned, among strangers ; and
though she had so much experience of the
world, it was not of this world that Constance
had any knowledge. Had she been left alone
among a new tribe of people unknown to her,
she would not have been afraid ! Court or
camp would have had no alarms for her ; but
the solitude, broken only by the occasional
appearance of these rustic companions ; the

simple young soldier, who was going to bestow
this heart upon her, an entirely undesired gift ;
the anxious mother, who was about to mount
guard over her at a distance ; the polite old
beau in the background. Was it possible that
the existence she knew had altogether receded
from Constance, and left her with such companions
alone ? She was not thinking of her
father, neither of himself nor of his possible
presence, which was of little importance to
her. After a while she sat upright and passed
her handkerchief quickly over her face. " It
is my own fault," she said, still to herself;
I might have known."

You don't see, Constance, that I am here."
She started, and pulled herself up in a moment.
''Oh, are you there, papa? No, I
didn't see you. I didn't think of any one
being here. Well, they are gone. Everybody
came to see Frances off, as you divined. She
bore up very well ; but, of course, it was a
little sad for her, leaving everything she
knows."

You were crying a minute ago, Constance."
"Was I? Oh, well, that was nothing;.

Girls cry, and it doesn't mean much. You
know women well enough to know that."

"Yes, I know women  enough to say the
ordinary things about them," said Waring ;
but perhaps I don't know you, which is of
far more consequence just now."

' There is not much in me to know," said the
girl in a light voice. " I am just like other
girls. I am apt to cry when I see people crying;.
Frances sobbed  like a little foolish
thing ; for why should she cry ? She is going
to see the world. Did you ever feel, when
you came here first, a sort of horror seize upon
you, as if  as if  as if you were lost in a savage
wilderness, and would never see a human face
again i

'' No ; I cannot say I ever felt that."

No, to be sure," cried Constance. " What
ridiculous nonsense I am talking I A savage
wilderness ! with all these houses about, and
the hotels on the beach. I mean  didn't you
feel as if you would like to run violently down
a steep place into the sea ? " Then she stopped,
and laughed. *' It was the swine that did
that."

It has never occurred to me to take that
means of settling matters ; and yet I understand
you," he said gravely. 'you have made
a mistake. You thought you were philosopher
enough to give up the world ; and it turns out
that you are not. But you need not cry, for
it is not too late. You can change your mind."

I  change my mind ! Not for the world,
papa ! Do you think I would give them the
triumph of supposing that I could not do without
them, that I was obliged to go back ? Not
for the world."

I understand the sentiment," he said. " Still,
between these two conditions of mind, it is rather
unfortunate for you, my dear. I do not see any
middle course."

Oh yes, there is a middle course. I can
make myself very comfortable here ; and that
is what I mean to do. Papa, if you had not
found it out, I should not have told you. I
hope' you are not offended ? "

Oh no, I am not offended," he said, with
a short laugh. " It is perhaps a pity that everybody
has been put to so much trouble for what
gives you so little satisfaction. That is the

worst of it ; these mistakes affect so many
others besides one's self."

Constance evidently had a struggle with herself
to accept this reproof; but she made no
immediate reply. After a while: "Frances
will be a little strange at first ; but she will
like it by-and-by; and it is only right she
should have her share," she said softly. " I
have been wondering," she went on, with a
laugh that was somewhat forced, "whether
mamma will respect her individuality at all ;
or if she will put her altogether into my place ?
I wonder if  that man I told you of, papa "

Well, what of him ? " said Waring, rather
sharply.

I wonder if he will be turned over to Frances
too ? It would be droll. Mamma is not a person
to give up any of her plans, if she can
help it ; and you have brought up Frances
so very well, papa ; she is so docile  and so
obedient "

"You think she will accept your old lover,
or your old wardrobe, or anything that offers ?
I don't think she is so well brought up as
that."

I did not mean to insult my sister," cried
Constance, springing to her feet. " She is so
well brought up, that she accepted whatever
you chose to say to her, forgetting that she
was a woman, that she was a lady."

Waring's face grew scarlet in the darkness.
*' I hope," he said, 'that I am incapable of forgetting
on any provocation that my daughter
is a lady."

You mean me ! " she cried, breathless. " Oh,

I can " But here she stopped. 'papa,"

she resumed, "what good will it do us to
quarrel ? I don't want to quarrel. Instead
of setting yourself against me because I am

poor Con, and not Frances, whom you love

Oh, I think you might be good to me just at
this moment ; for I am very lonely, and I don't
know what I am good for, and I think my heart
will break."

She went to him quickly, and flung herself
upon his shoulder, and cried. Waring was
perhaps more embarrassed than touched by
this appeal; but after all, she was his child,
and he was sorry for her. He put his arm
round her, and said a few soothing words.

"You may be good for a great deal, if you
choose," lie said ; '' and if you will believe me,
my dear, you will find that by far the most
amusing way. You have more capabilities
than Frances ; you are much better educated
than she is  at least I suppose so, for she
was not educated at all."

"How do you mean that it will be more
amusing ? I don't expect to be amused ; all
that is over," said Constance, in a dolorous
tone.

He was so much like her, that he paused fora
moment to consider whether he should be
angry, but decided against it, and laughed
instead. "You are not complimentary," he
said. " What I mean is, that if you sit still
and think over your deprivations, you will
inevitably be miserable ; whereas, if you exert
yourself a little, and make the best of the situation,
you will very likely extract something
that is amusing out of it. I have seen it
happen so often in my experience."

"Ah," said Constance, considering. And
then she withdrew from him and went back
to her chair. " I thought, perhaps, you meant

something more positive. There are perhaps
possibilities : Frances would have thought it
wrong to look out for amusement  that must
have been because you trained her so."

"Not altogether. Frances does not require
so much amusement as you do. It is so in
everything. One individual wants more sleep,
more food, more delight than others."

"Yes, yes," she cried; "that is like me.
Some people are more alive than others ; that
is what you mean, papa."

I am not sure that it is what I mean ; but
if you like to take it so, I have no objection.
And in that view, I recommend you to live,
Constance. You will find it a great deal more
amusing than to mope ; and it will be much
pleasant to me."

Yes," she said, " I was considering. Perhaps
what I mean will be not the same as
what you mean. I will not do it in Frances'
way; but still I will take your advice, papa.
I am sure you are right in what you say."

"I am glad you think so, my dear. If you
cannot have everything you want, take what
you can get. It is the only true philosophy."

Then I will be a true philosopher," lie
said, with a laugh. The laugh was more thana
mere recovery of spirits. It broke out again
after a little, as if with a sense of something
irresistibly comic. "But I must not interfere
too much with Mariuccia, it appears. She
knows what you like better than I do. I am
only to look wise when she submits her menu,
as if I knew all about it. I am very good at
looking as if I knew all about it. By the way,
do you know there is no ]piano ? I should like
to have a piano, if I might."

That will not be very difficult," he said
Can you play ? "

At which she laughed once more, with all her
easy confidence restored. " You shall hear,
when you get me a piano. Thanks, papa ;
you have quite restored me to myself. I
can't knit you socks, like Frances ; and I am
not so clever about the mayonnaises ; but still
I am not altogether devoid of intellect. And
now, we completely understand each other.
Good night."

'' This is sudden," he said. " Good night, if
you think it is time for that ceremony."

It is time for me ; I am a little tired ; and
I have got some alterations to make in my
room, now that  now that  at present when
I am quite settled and see my way."

He did not understand what she meant, and
he did not inquire. It was of very little consequence.
Indeed it was perhaps well that she
should go and leave him to think of everything.
It was not a month yet since the
day when he had met that idiot Mannering
on the road. To be sure, there was no proof
that the idiot Mannering was the cause of all
that had ensued. But at least it was he who
had first disturbed the calm which Waring
hoped was to have been eternal. He sat
down to think, almost grateful to Constance
for taking herself away. He thought a little
of Frances hurrying along into the unknown,
the first great journey she had ever taken 
and such a journey, away from everything and
everybody she knew. Poor little Fan ! he
thought a little about her; but he thought a
great deal about himself. Would it ever be
possible to return to that peace which had
been so profound, which had ceased to appear

capable of disturbance ? The circumstances
were all very different now. Frances, who
would think it her duty to write to him often,
was henceforth to be her mother's companion,
reflecting, no doubt, the sentiments of a mind,
to escape from the companionship of which he
had given up the world and (almost) his own
species. And Constance, though she had elected
to be his companion, would no doubt all the
same write to her mother ; and everything that
he did and said, and all the circumstances of
his life, would thus be laid open. He felt an
impatience beyond words of that dutifulness
of women, that propriety in which girls are
trained, which makes them write letters. Why
should they write letters ? But it was impossible
to prevent it. His wife would become a
sort of distant witness of everything he did.
She would know what he liked for dinner, the
wine he preferred, how many baths he took.
To describe how this thought annoyed him
would be impossible. He had forgotten to
warn Frances that her father was not to be
discussed with my lady. But what was the
use of saying anything, when letters would

come and go continually from the one house
to the other ? And he would be compelled to
put up with it, though nothing could be more
unpleasant. If these girls had been boys, this
would not have happened. It was perhaps the
first time Waring had felt himself within reach
of such a wish, for boys were far more objectionable
to his fine taste than girls, gave more
trouble, and were less agreeable to have about
one. In the present circumstances, however, he
could not but feel they would have been less
embarrassing. Constance might grow tired,
indeed, of that unprofitable exercise of letter-writing.
But Frances, he felt sure, would in
all cases be dutiful, and would not grow tired.
She would write to him perhaps (he shivered)
every day ; at least every week ; and she would
think it her duty to tell him everything that
happened, and she would require that he should
reply. But this, except once or twice, perhaps,
to let her down easily, he was resolved that
nothing should induce him to do.

Constance was neither tired nor sleepy when
she went to her room. She had never betrayed
the consciousness in any way, being high-bred

and courteous when it did not interfere with
her comfort to be so ; yet she had divined
that Frances had given up her room to her.
This would have touched the heart of many-people,
but to Constance it was almost an
irritation. She could not think why her sister
had done it, except with that intention of self-martyrdom
with which so many good people
exasperate their neighbours. She would have
been quite as comfortable in the blue room,
and she would have liked it better. Now that
Frances was safely gone and her feelings could
not be hurt any more, Constance had set her
heart upon altering it to her own pleasure,
making it bear no longer the impress of
Frances' mind, But of her own. She took
down a number of the pictures which Frances
had thought so much of, and softly pulled the
things about, and changed it more than anyone
could have supposed a room could be
changed. Then she sat down to think. The
depression which had seized upon her when
she had felt that all was over, that the door
was closed upon her, and no place of repentance
any longer possible, did not return at

first. Her father's words, which she understood
in a sense not intended by him, gave
her a great deal of amusement as she thought
them over. She did not conceal from herself
the fact that there mio;ht ensue circumstances
in which she should quote them to him to
justify herself. " Frances does not require so
much amusement as you do. One individual
requires more sleep, more food, more delight
than another." She laid this dangerous saying
up in her mind with much glee, laughing to
herself under her breath : "If you cannot get
what you want, you must take what you can
get." How astounded he would be if it should
ever be necessary to put him in mind of these
dogmas  which were so true ! Her father's
arguments, indeed, which were so well meant,
did not suit the case of Constance. She had
been in a letter state of mind when she had
felt herself to awake, as it were, on the edge
of this desert, into which, in her impatience,
she had flung herself, and saw that there was
no escape for her, that she had been taken
at her word, that she was to be permitted to
work out her own will, and that no one would

forcibly interfere to restore all her delights, to
smooth the way for her to return. She had
expected this, if not consciously, yet with a
strong unexpressed conviction. But when she
had seen Markham's face disappear, and realised
that he was gone, actually gone, and had left
her to exist as she could in the wilderness to
which she had flown, her young perverse soul
had been swept as by a tempest.

After a while, when she had gone through
that little interview with her father, when
she had executed her little revolution, and had
seated herself in the quiet of the early night
to think again over the whole matter, the pang
returned, as every pang does. It was not yet
ten o'clock, the hour at which she might have
been setting out to a succession of entertainments
under her mother's wing; but she had
nothing better to amuse her than to alter the
arrangement of a few old chairs, to draw aside
a faded curtain, and then to betake herself to
bed, though it was too early to sleep. There
were sounds of voices still audible without
people singing, gossiping, enjoying, on the
stone benches on the Punto, just those same

delights of society which happy people on the
verge of a new season were beginning to enjoy.
But Constance did not feel much sympathy with
the villagers, who were foreigners, whom she
felt to be annoying and intrusive, making a
noise under her windows, when, as it so
happened, she had nothing to do but to goto
sleep. When she looked out from the
window and saw the pale sky spreading clear
over the sea, she could think of nothing but
Frances rushing along through the night, with
Markham taking such care of her, hastening to
London, to all that was worth living for. No
doubt that little thing was still crying in her
corner, in her folly and ignorance regretting her
village. Oh, if they could but have changed
places ! To think of sitting opposite to Markham,
with the soft night air blowing in her
face, devouring the way, seeing the little towns
flash past, the morning dawn upon France, the
long levels of the flat country sweep along, then
Paris, London, at last ! She shut the persian
almost violently with a hand that trembled, and
looked round the four walls which shut her in,
with again an impulse almost of despair. She

VOL. II. B

felt like a wild creature newly caged, slit in
there, to be kept within bolts and bars, to pace
up and down, and beat against the walls of her
prison, and never more to go free.

But this fit being more violent, did not go
so deep as the unspeakable sense of loneliness
which had overwhelmed her soul at first. She
sprang up from it with the buoyancy of her
age, and said to herself what her father had
said : " If you cannot get what you want, you
must take what you can get." There was
yet a little amusement to be had out of this
arid place. She had her father's sanction for
making use of her opportunities ; anything
was better than to mope ; and for her it was
a necessity to live. She laughed a little
under her breath once more, as she came back
to this more reassuring thought, and so lay
down in her sister's bed with a satisfaction
in the thought that it had not taken her
any trouble to supplant Frances, and a mischievous
smile about the corners of her mouth ;
although, after all, the thought of the travellers
came over her again as she closed her eyes, and
she ended by crying herself to sleep.

CHAPTEK XVIII.

Captain Gaunt called next day to bring, he
said, a message from his mother. She sent Mr
Waring a newspaper which she thought he
might like to see, an English weekly newspaper,
which some of her correspondents had

sent her, in which there was an article He

did not give a very clear account of this, nor
make it distinctly apparent why Waring should
be specially interested ; and as a matter of fact,
the newspaper found its way to the waste-paper
basket, and interested nobody. But, no doubt,
Mrs Gaunt's intentions had been excellent.
When the young soldier arrived, there was a
carriage at the door, and Constance had her hat
on. " We are going," she said, " to San Nemo,
to see about a piano. Do you know San Remo ?
Oh, I forgot you are as much a stranger as I

am ; you don't know anything. What a good
thing that there are two ignorant persons ! We
will keep each other in countenance, and they
will be compelled to make all kinds of expeditions
to show us everything."

"That will be a wonderful chance for me,"
said the young man, " for nobody would take
so much trouble for me alone."

How can you tell that ? Miss Tasie, I
should think, would be an excellent cicerone,"
said Constance. She said it with a light laugh
of suggestion, meaning to imply, though, of
course, she had said nothing, that Tasie would
be too happy to put herself at Captain Gaunt's
disposition ; a suggestion which he, too, received
with a laugh  for this is one of the
points upon which both boys and girls are
always ungenerous.

"And failing Miss Tasie," said Constance,
'suppose you come with papa and me? They
say it is a pretty drive. They say, of course,
that everything here is lovely, and that the
Eiviera is paradise. Do you find it so ? "

'' I can fancy circumstances in which I should
find it so," said the young soldier.

Ah, yes ; every one can do that. I can
fancy circumstances in which Bond Street
would be paradise  oh, very easily ! It is not
far from paradise at any time."

That is a heaven of which I know very
little. Miss Waring."

Ah, then, you must learn. The true
Elysian fields are in London in May. If you
don't know that, you can form no idea of happiness.
An exile from all delights gives you the
information, and you may be sure it is true."

"Why, then. Miss Waring, if you think
so "

"Am I here? Oh, that is easily explained.
I have a sister."

"Yes, I know."

"Ah, I understand you have heard a great
deal about my sister. I suffer here from being
compared with her. I am not nearly so good,
so wise, as Frances. But is that my fault,
Captain Gaunt ? You are impartial ; you area
new-comer. If I could, I would, be as nice
as Frances, don't you believe ? "

The young man gave Constance a look,
which, indeed, she expected, and said with

confusion, "I don't see  any need for improvement,"
and blushed as near crimson as
was possible over the greenish brown of his
Indian colour.

Constance for her part did not blush. She
laughed, and made him an almost imperceptible
curtsey. The ways of flirtation are not
original, and all the parallels of the early encounters
might be stereotyped, as everybody
knows.

You are very amiable," she said ; " but
then you don't know Frances, and your opinion,
accordingly, is less valuable. I did not ask
you, however, to believe me to be equal to my
sister, but only to believe that I would be as
nice if I could. However, all that is no explanation.
We have a mother, you know, in
England. We are, unfortunately, that sad
thing, a household divided against itself."

Captain Gaunt was not prepared for such
confidences. He grew still a little browner
with embarrassment, and muttered something
about being very sorry, not knowing what to
say.

Oh, there is not very much to be sorry

about. Papa enjoys himself in his way here,
and mamma is very happy at home. The only
thing is that we must each have our turn, you
know  that is only fair. So Frances has gone
to mamma, and here am I in Bordighera. Weare
each dreadfully out of our element. Her
friends condemn me, to begin with, as if it
were my fault that I am not like her ; and my

friends, perhaps But no ; I don't think

so. Frances is so good, so nice, so everything
a girl ought to be."

At this she laughed softly again ; and young
Gaunt's consciousness that his mother's much
vaunted Frances was the sort of girl to please
old ladies rather than young men, a prim, little,
smooth, correct maiden, with not the least
go " in her, took additional force and certainty.
Whereas But he had no words in

which to express his sense of the advantages
on the other side.

You must find it," he said, knowing nothing
more original to say, "dreadfully dull
living here."

I have not found anything as yet ; I have
only just come. I am no more than a few days

older than you are. We can compare notes as
time goes on. But perhaps you don't mean to
stay very long in these abodes of the blest ? "

I don't know that I did intend it. But I
shall stay now as long as ever I can," said the
young man. Then  for he was shy  he added
hastily, "It is a long time since I have seen
my people, and they like to have me."

Naturally. But you need not have spoiled
what looked like a very pretty compliment by
adding that. Perhaps you didn't mean it for a
compliment ? Oh, I don't mind at all. It is
much more original, if you didn't mean it.
Compliments are such common coin. But I
don't pretend to despise them, as some girls do ;
and I don't like to see them spoiled," Constance
said seriously.

The young man looked at her with consternation.
After a while, his moustache expanded
into a laugh, but it was a confused laugh, and
he did not understand. Still less did he know
how to reply. Constance had been used to
sharper wits, who took her at half a word ;
and she was half angry to be thus obliged to
explain.

We are going to San Remo, as I told you,"
she said. " I am waiting for my father. Weare
going to look for a piano. Frances is not
musical, so there is no piano in the house.
You must come too, and give your advice.
Oh, are you ready, papa ? Captain Gaunt, who
does not know San Remo, and who does know
music, is coming with us to give us his advice."

The young soldier stammered forth that to
go to San Remo was the thing he most desired
in the world. *but I don't think my advice
will be good for much," he said, conscientiously.
"I do a little on the violin ; but as for pretending
to be a judge of a piano "

Come ; we are all ready," said Constance,
leading the way.

Waring had to let the young fellow precede
him, to see him get into the carriage without
any articulate murmur. As a matter of facta
sort of stupor seized the father, altogether
unaccustomed to be the victim of accidents.
Frances might have lived by his side till she
was fifty before she would have thought of
inviting a stranger to be of their party  a
stranger, a young man, wliicli was a class of

being with which AVaring had little patience,
a young soldier, proverbially frivolous, and
occupied with foolish matters. Young Gaunt
respectfully left to his senior the place beside
Constance ; but he placed himself opposite to
her, and kept his eyes upon her with a devout
attention, which Waring would have thought
ridiculous had he not been irritated by it.
The young fellow was a great deal too much
absorbed to contribute much to the amusement
of the party ; and it irritated Waring beyond
measure to see his eyes gleam from under his
eyebrows, opening wider with delight, half closing;
with laughter, the ends of his moustache
going up to his ears. Waring, an impartial
spectator, was not so much impressed by his
daughter's wit. He thought he had heard a
great deal of the same before, or even better,
surely better, for he could recollect that he had
in his day been charmed by a similar treatment,
which must have been much lighter in touch,
much less commonplace in subject, because 
he was charmed. Thus we argue in our generations.
In the meantime, young Gaunt,
though he had not been without some experience,

looked at Constance from under this brows,
and listened as if to the utterances of the gods.
If only they could have had it all to themselves
; if only the old father had been out of
the way !

The sunshine, the sea, the beautiful colour,
the unexpected vision round every corner of
another and another picturesque cluster of
towns and roofs ; all that charm and variety
which give to Italy above every country on
earth the admixture of human interest, the
endless chain of association which adds a
grace to natural beauty, made very little impression
upon this young pair. She would
have been amused and delighted by the exercise
of her own power, and he would have
been enthralled by her beauty, and what he
considered her wit and high spirits, had their
progress been along the dullest streets. It
was only Waring's eyes, disgusted by the
prospect before him of his daughter's little
artifices, and young Gaunt 's imbecile subjection,
which turned with any special consciousness
to the varying blues of the sea, to
the endless developments of the landscape.

Flirtation is one of the last things in the
world to brook a spectator. Its little absurdities,
which are so delightful to the actors in
the drama, and which at a distance the severest
critic may smile at and forgive, excite the
wrath of a too close looker - on, in a way
quite disproportioned to their real offensiveness.
The interchange of chatter which prevents,
as that observer would say, all rational
conversation, the attempts to charm, which are
so transparent, the response of silly admiration,
which is only another form of vanity 
how profoundly sensible we all are of their
folly ! Had Constance taken as much pains
to please her father, he would, in all probability,
have yielded altogether to the spell ;
but he was angry, ashamed, furious, that she
should address those wiles to the young
stranger, and saw thrush him with a clear-lightness
which was exasperating. It was
all the more exasperating that he could not
tell what she meant by it. Was it possible
that she had already formed an inclination
towards this tawny young stranger ? Had his
bilious hues affected her imagination ? Love

at first sight is a very respectable emotion,
and commands in many cases both sympathy
and admiration. But no man likes to see the
working of this sentiment in a woman who
belongs to him. Had Constance fallen in
love ? He grew angry at the very suggestion,
though breathed only in the recesses of
his own mind. A girl who had been brought
up in the world, who had seen all kinds of
people, was it possible that she should fall a
victim in a moment to the attractions of a
young nobody  a young fellow who knew
nothing but India? That he should be subjected,
was simple enough ; but Constance !
Waring's brow clouded more and more. He
kept silent, taking no part in the talk, and the
young fools did not so much as remark it, but
went on with their own absurdity more and
more.

The transformation of a series of little Italian
municipalities, although in their nature more
towns than villages, rendered less rustic by the
traditions of an exposed coast, and many a
crisis of self-defence, into little modern towns
full of hotels and tourists, is neither a pleasant

nor a lovely process. San Remo in the
old clays, before Dr Antonio made it known
to the world, lay among its olivegardens on
the edge of the sea, which grew bluer and
bluer as it crept to the feet of the human
master of the soil, a delight to behold, a little
picture which memory cherished. Wide promenades
flanked with big hotels, with conventional
gardens full of green bushes, and a kiosk
for the band, make a very different prospect
now. But then, in the old days, there could
have been no music-sellers with pianos to let
or sell ; no famous English chemist with coloured
bottles ; no big shops in which travellers
could be tempted. Constance forgot Captain
Gaunt when she found herself in this atmosphere
of the world. She began to remember
things she wanted. " Papa, if you don't
despise it too much, you must let me do a
little shopping," she said. She wanted a hat
for the sun. She wanted some eau-de-cologne.
She wanted just to run into the jeweller's to
see if the coral was good, to see if there were
any peasant-ornaments which would be characteristic.
At all this her father smiled somewhat

grimly, taking it as a part of the campaign
into wliicli his daughter had chosen to
enter for the overthrow of the young soldier.
But Constance was perfectly sincere, and had
forgotten her campaign in the new and warmer
interest.

''So long as you do not ask me to attend
you from shop to shop," he said.

Oh no ; Captain Gaunt will come," said
Constance.

Captain Gaunt was not a victim who required
many wiles. He was less amusing
than she had hoped, in so far that he had
given in, in an incredibly short space of time.
He was now in a condition to be trampled on
at her pleasure, and this was unexciting. A
longer resistance would have been much more
to Constance's mind. Captain Gaunt accompanied
her to all the shops. He helped her
with his advice about the piano, bending his
head over her as she ran through a little air
or two, and struck a few chords on one after
the other of the music-seller's stock. They
were not very admirable instruments, but one
was found that would do.

Waring took a silent walk round the bay
while the purchases went on. He thought
of past experiences, of the attraction which a
shop has for women. Frances, no doubt, after
a little of her mother's training, would be the
same. She would find out the charms of
shopping. He had not even her return to
look forward to, for she would not be the
same Frances who had left him, when she.
came back. Wheji she came back ?  if she
ever came back. The same Frances, never ;
perhaps not even a changed Frances. Her
mother would quickly see what an advantage
she had in getting the daughter whom her
husband had brought up. She would not give
her back ; she would turn her into a second
Constance. There had been a time when
Waring had concluded that Constance was
amusing and Frances dull ; but it must be
remembered that he was under provocation
now. If she had been amusing, it had not

been for him. She had exerted herself to
please a commonplace, undistinguished boy,
with an air of being indifferent to everything
else, which was beyond measure irritating to
her father. And now she had got scent of
shops, and would never be happy save when
she was rushing from one place to another 
to Mentone, to Nice perhaps, wherever her
fancied wants might lead her. Waring discussed
all this with himself as he rambled
along, his nerves all set on edge, his taste
revolted. Flirtations and shops  was he to
be brought to this ? he who had been free
from domestic encumbrance, who had known
nothing for so many years but a little ministrant,
who never troubled him, who was ready
when he wanted her, but never put forth herself
as a restraint or an annoyance. He had
advised Constance to take what good she could
find in her life ; but he had never imagined
that this was the line she would take.

The drive home was scarcely more satisfactory.
Young Gaunt had got a little courage
by the episode of the shops. He ventured to
tell her of the trifles he had brought with him

VOL. II. c

from India, and to ask if Miss Waring would
care to see them ; and lie described to lier the
progress he had made with his violin, and what
his attainments were in music. Constance told
him that the best thing he could do was to
bring the said violin and all his music, so that
they might see what they could do together.
If you are not too far advanced for me," she
said with a laugh. " Come in the morning,
when we shall not be interrupted."

Her father listened, but said nothing. His
imagination immediately set before him the
tuning and scraping, the clang of the piano,
the shriek of the fiddle, and he himself only
two rooms off, endeavouring in vain to collect
his thoughts and do his work ! Mr Warner's
work was not of the first importance, but still
it was his work, and momentous to him. He
bore, however, a countenance unmoved, if very
grave, and even endured without a word the
young man's entrance with them, the consultation
about where the piano was to stand, and
tea afterwards in the loggia. He did not himself
want any tea ; he left the young people
to enjoy this refreshment together while he

retired to this workroom. But with only two
rooms between, and with his senses quickened
by displeasure, he heard their voices, the
laughter, the continual flow of talk, even the
little tinkle of the teacups  every sound. He
had never been disturbed by Frances' tea ; but
then, except Tasie Durant, there had been nobody
to share it, no son from the bungalow,
no privileged messenger sent by his mother.
Mrs Gaunt's children, of whom she talked continually,
had always been a nuisance, except to
the sympathetic soul of Frances. But who
could have imagined the prominence which they
had assumed now ?

Young Gaunt did not go away until shortly
before dinner ; and Constance, after accompanying
him to the anteroom, went along the
corridor singing, to her own room, to change
her dress. Though her room (Frances' room
that was) was at the extremity of the suite,
her father heard her light voice running on ina
little operatic air all the time she made her
toilet. Had it been described in a book, he
thought to himself it would have had a pretty
sound. The girl's voice, sweet and gay,

sounding through the house, the voice of happy
youth brightening the dull life there, the voice
of innocent content betraying its own satisfaction
with existence  satisfaction in having
a young fool to flirt with, and some trumpery
shops to buy unnecessary appendages in ! At
dinner, however, she made fun of young Gaunt,
and the morose father was a little mollified.
"It is rather dreadful for other people when
there is an adoring mother in the background
to think everything you do perfection," Constance
said. " I don't think we shall make
much of the violin."

These are subjects on which you can speak
with more authority than I  both the violin
and the mother," said Waring.

Oh," she cried, " you don't think mamma
was one of the adoring kind, I hope ! There
may be things in her which might be mended ;
but she is not like that. She kept one in one's
proper place. And as for the violin, I suspect
he plays it like an old fiddler in the streets."

' You have changed your mind about it very
rapidly," said AVaring ; but on the whole he
was pleased. " You seemed much interested

both in the hero and the music, a little while
ago."

Yes ; was I not ? " said Constance with
perfect candour. "And he took it all in, as if
it were likely. These young men from India,
they are very ingenuous. It seems wicked to
take advantage of them, does it not ? "

More people are ingenuous than the young
man from India. I intended to speak to you
very seriously as soon as he was gone  to ask
you "

What were my intentions ? " cried Constance,
with an outburst of the gayest laughter.
Oh, what a pity I began ! How sorry I am
to have missed that ! Do you think his mother
will ask me, papa ? It is generally the man,
isn't it, who is questioned ? and he says his
intentions are honourable. Mine, I frankly
allow, are not honourable."

No ; very much the reverse, I should think.
But it had better be clearly defined, for my
satisfaction, Constance, which of you is true 
the girl who cried over her loneliness last night,
or she who made love to Captain Gaunt this
morning "

"No, papa; only was a little nice to him,
because he is lonely too."

"These delicacies of expression are too fine

for me. Who made the poor young fellow

believe that she liked his society immensely,
was much interested, counted upon him and
his violin as her greatest pleasures."

You are going too far," she said. " I think
the fiddle will be fun. When you play very
badly and are a little conceited about it, you
are always amusing. And as for Captain Gaunt
so long as he does not complain "

It is I who am complaining, Constance."

"Well, papa  but why? You told me last
night to take what I had, since I could not
have what I want."

"And you have acted upon my advice?
With great promptitude, I must allow."

Yes," she said with composure. " What is
the use of losing time ? It is not my fault if
there is somebody here quite ready. It amuses
him too. And what harm am I doing ? A girl
can't be asked  except for fun  those disagreeable
questions."

"And therefore you think a girl can do 
what would be dishonourable in a man."

"Oil, you are so much too serious," cried
Constance. "Are you always as serious as
this ? You laughed when I told you about
Fanny Gervoise. Is it only because it is me
that you find fault ? And don't you think it
is a little too soon for parental interference ?
The Gaunts would be much surprised. They
would think you were afraid for my peace of
mind, papa  as her parents were afraid for
Miss Tasie."

This moved the stern father to a smile. He
had thought that Constance did not appreciate
that joke; but the girl had more humour than
he supposed. " I see," he said, " you will have
your own way ; but remember, Constance, I
cannot allow it to go too far."

How could he prevent it going as far as she
pleased ? she said to herself with a little scorn,
when she was alone. Parents may be medieval
if they will ; but the means have never yet
been invented of preventing a woman, when
she is so minded and has the power in her
hands, from achieving her little triumph over
a young man's heart.

Chapter XIX.

"Where is George? I scarcely ever see him,"
said the General, in querulous tones. " He is
always after that girl of Waring's. Why don't
you try to keep him at home ? "

Mrs Gaunt did not say that she had done
her best to keep him at home, but found her
efforts unsuccessful. She said apologetically,
He has so very little to amuse him here ; and
the music, you know, is a great bond."

He plays like a beginner ; and she, like a 
like a  as well as a professional, I don't understand
what kind of bond that can be."

So much the greater a compliment is it to
George that she likes his playing," responded
the mother promptly.

She likes to make a fool of him, I think,"
the General said ; " and you help her on. I

don't understand your tactics. Women generally
like to keep their sons free from such
entanglements ; and after getting him safely
out of India, where every man is bound to fall
into mischief "

Oh, my dear," said Mrs Gaunt, " if it ever
should come to that  think, what an excellent
connection. I wish it had been Frances ; I do
wish it had been Frances. I had always set
my heart on that. But the connection would
be the same."

"You knew nothing about the connection
when you set your heart on Frances. And I
can't help thinking there is something odd
about the connection. Why should that girl
have come here, and why should the other
one be spirited away like a transformation
scene ? "

Well, my dear, it is in the peerage," said
Mrs Gaunt. " Great families, we all know, are
often very queer in their arrangements. But
there can be no doubt it is all right, for it is in
the peerage. If it had been Frances, I should
have been too happy. With such a connection,
he could not fail to get on."

'' He had miicli better get on by his own
merits," retorted the General with a grumble.
'frances! Frances was not to be compared
with this girl. But I don't believe she means
anything more than amusing herself," he added.
'' This is not the sort of girl to marry a poor
soldier without a penny  not she. She will
take her fun out of him, and then "

The General kissed the end of his fingers
and tossed them into the air. He was, perhaps,
a little annoyed that his son had stepped in and
monopolised the most amusing member of the
society. And perhaps he did not think so badly
of George's chances as he said.

You may be sure," said Mrs Gaunt, indignantly,
" she will do nothing of the kind. It
is not every day that a girl gets a fine fellow
like our George at her feet. He is just a little
too much at her feet, which is always a mistake,
I think. But still, General, you cannot but
allow that Lord Markham's sister "

I have never seen much good come of great
connections," said the General ; but though his
tone was that of a sceptic, his mind was softer
than his speech. He, too, felt a certain elation

in the thought that the youngest, who was not
the clever one of the family, and who had not
been quite so steady as might have been desired,
was thus in the way of putting himself
above the reach of fate. For of course, to be
brother-in-law to a viscount was a o;ood thins;.
It might not be of the same use as in the days
when patronage ruled supreme ; but still it
would be folly to suppose that it was not an
advantage. It would admit George to circles
with which otherwise he could have formed no
acquaintance, and make him known to people
who could push him in his profession. George
was the one about whom they had been most
anxious. All the others were doing well in
their way, though it was not a way which threw
them into contact with viscounts or fine society.
George would be over all their heads in that
respect, and he was the one that wanted it
most,  he was the one who was most dependent
on outside aid.

I don't quite understand," said Mrs Gaunt,
what Constance' position is. She ought to
be the Honourable, don't you think? The
Honourable Constance sounds very pretty. It

would come in very nicely with Gaunt, which
is an aristocratic-sounding name. People may
say what they like about titles, but they are
very nice, there is such individuality in them.
Mrs George might be anybody ; it might be
me, as your name is George too. But the
Honourable would distinguish it at once.
When she called here, there was only Miss
Constance Waring written on her father's
card ; but then you don't put Honourable
on your card ; and as Lady Markham's
daughter "

"Women don't count," said the General, "as
I've often told you. She's Waring's daughter."

"Mr Waring may be a very clever man," said
Mrs Gaunt, indignantly ; " but I should like to
know how Constance can be the daughter of a
viscountess in her own right without "

Is she a viscountess in her own right ? "

This question brought Mrs Gaunt to a sudden
pause. She looked at him with a startled air.
"It is not through Mr Waring, that is clear,"
she said.

But it is not in her own right  at least I
don't think so ; it is through her first husband.

the father of that funny little creature " (meaning
Lord Markham).

General ! " said Mrs Gaunt, shocked. Then
she added, " I must make some excuse to look
at the Peerage this afternoon. The Durants
have always sot their Peerage on the table.
We shall have to send for one too, if "

' If what ? If your boy gets a wife who
has titled connections, for that is all. A wife !
and what is he to keep her on, in the name
of heaven ? "

Mothers and brothers are tolerably close
connections," said Mrs Gaunt with dignity.
He has got his pay, General ; and you always

intended, if he married to your satisfaction

Of course," she added, speaking very quickly,
to forestall an outburst, '' Lady Markham
will not leave her daughter dependent upon
a captain's pay. And even Mr Waring  Mr
Waring must have a fortune of his own, or
or a person like that would never have
married him ; and he would not be able to
live as he does, very comfortably, even luxuriously
"

"Oh, I suppose he has enough to live on.

But as for pinching himself in order to enable
his girl to marry your boy, I closet believe a
word of it," exclaimed the General. Fortunately,
being carried away by this wave of criticism,
he had forgotten his wife's allusion to his
own intentions in George's favour ; and this
was a subject on which she had no desire to be
premature.

"Well, General," she said, "perhaps we are
going a little too fast. We don't know yet
whether anything will come of it. George is
rather a lady's man. It may be only a flirtation
; it may end in nothing. We need not
begin to count our chickens "

"Why, it was you!" cried the astonished
General. " I never should have remarked anything
about it, or wasted a moment's thought
on the subject ! "

Mrs Gaunt was not a clever woman, skilled
in the art of leaving conversational responsibilities
on the shoulders of her interlocutor ; but
if a woman is not inspired on behalf of her
youngest boy, when is she to be inspired ? She
gave her shoulders the slightest possible shrug
and left him to his newspaper. They had a

newspaper from England every morning  the
Standard whose reasonable Conservatism suited
the old General. Except in military matters,
such questions as the advance of Russia towards
Afghanistan, or the defences of our own coasts,
the General was not a bigot, and preferred his
politics mild, with as little froth and foam as
possible. His newspaper afforded him occupation
for the entire morning, and he enjoyed it
in very pleasant wise, seated under his veranda
with a faint suspicion of lemon-blossom in
the air which ruffled the young olive-trees all
around, and the blue breadths of the sea stretching
far away at his feet. The garden behind
was fenced in with lemon and orange trees, the
fruit in several stages, and just a little point of
blossom here and there, not enough to load the
air. Mrs Gaunt had preserved the wild flowers
that were natural to the place, and accordingly
had a scarlet field of anemones which wanted
no cultivation, and innumerable clusters of the
sweet white narcissus filling her little enclosure.
These cost no trouble, and left Toni, the man-of-all-work,
at leisure for the more profitable culture
of the olives. From where the General

sat, there was nothing visible, however, but the
terraces descending in steps towards the distant
glimpse of the road, and the light-blue margin,
edged with spray, of the sea  under a soft and
cheering sun, that warmed to the heart, but did
not scorch or blaze, and with a soft air playing
about his old temples, breathing freshness
and that lemon-bloom. Sometimes there would
come a faint sound of voices from some group
of workers among the olives. The little clump
of palm-trees at the end of the garden  for
nothing here is perfect without a palm or two 
cast a fantastic shadow, that waved over the
newspaper now and then. When a man is old
and has done his work, what can he want more
than this sweet retirement and stillness ? But
naturally, it was not all that was necessary to
young Captain George.

Mrs Gaunt went over to the Durants in the
afternoon, as she so often did, and found that
family, as usual, on their loggia. It cost her a
little trouble and diplomacy to get a private
inspection of the Peerage, and even when she
did so, it threw but little light upon her
question. Geoffrey Viscount Markham, tenth

lord, was a name which she read with a little
flutter of her heart, feeling that he was already
almost a relation ; and she read over the names
of Markham Priory and Dunmorra, his lodge in
the Highlands, and the town address in Eaton
Square, all with a sense that by-and-by she
might herself be directing letters from one or
other of these places. But the Peerage said
nothing about the Dowager Lady Markham subsequent
to the conclusion of the first marriage,
except that she had married again, E. Waring,
Esq. ; and thus Mrs Gaunt's studies came to no
satisfactory end. She introduced the subject,
however, in the course of tea. She had asked
whether any one had heard from Frances, and
had received a satisfactory reply.

Oh yes ; I have had two letters ; but she
does not say very much. They had gone down
to the Priory for Easter ; and she was to be
presented at the first drawing-room. Fancy
Frances in a Court train and feathers, at a
drawing-room ! It does seem so very strange,"
Tasie said. She said it with a slight sigh, for
it was she, in old times, who had expounded
Society to little Frances, and taught her what

VOL. II. D

in an emergency it would be right to do and
say; and now little Frances had taken a stride
in advance. " I asked her to write and tell us
all about it, and what she wore."

It would be white, of course."

Oh yes, it would be white  a debutante.
When / went to drawing-rooms," said Mrs
Durant, who had once, in the character of
chaplains to an Embassy, made her courtesy
to her Majesty, " young ladies' toilets were
simpler than now Frances will probably be
in white satin, which, except for a wedding
dress, is quite unsuitable, I think, for a girl."

I wonder if we shall see it in the papers ?
Sometimes my sister-in-law sends me a 'Queen,*
said Mrs Gaunt, " when she thinks there is
something in it which will interest me ; but she
does not know anything about Frances. Dear
little thing, I can't think of her in white satin.
Her sister, now "

*' Constance would wear velvet, if she could 
or cloth-of-gold," cried Tasie, with a little irritation.
Her mother gave her a reproving glance.

There is a tone in your voice, Tasie, which
is not kind."

Oh yes ; I know, mamma. But Constance
is rather a trial. I know one ought not to show
it. She looks as if one was not good enough
to tie her shoes. And after all, she is no better
than Frances ; she is not half so nice as Frances ;
but I mean there can be no difference of position
between sisters  one is just as good as
the other; and Frances was so fond of coming
here."

Do you think Constance gives herself airs ?
Oh no, dear Tasie," said Mrs Gaunt ; " she is
really not at all  when you come to know her.
I am most fond of Frances myself. Frances
has grown up among us, and we know all about
her; that is what makes the difference. And
Constance  is a little shy."

At this there was a cry from the family. *' I
don't think she is shy," said the old clergyman,
whom Constance had insulted by walking out
of church before the sermon.

Shy ! " exclaimed Mrs Durant, " about as

shy as " But no simile occurred to her

which was bold enough to meet the case.

"It is better she should not be shy," said
Tasie. "You remember how she drove those

Library

 Illinois'

people from the hotel to church. They have
come ever since. They are quite afraid of her.
Oh, there are some good things in her, some
very good things."

We are the more hard to please, after knowing
Frances," repeated Mrs Gaunt. " But
when a girl has been like that, used to the best

society By the way. Mr Durant, you who

know everything, are sure to know  Is she the
Honourable ? For my part I can't quite make
it out."

Mr Durant put on his spectacles to look at
her, as if such a question passed the bounds of
the permissible. He was very imposing when
he looked at any one through those spectacles
with an air of mingled astonishment and superiority.
" Why should she be an Honourable
? " he said.

Mrs Gaunt felt as if she would like to sink
into the abysses of the earth  that is, through
the floor of the loggia, whatever might be the
dreadful depths underneath. "Oh, I don't
know," she said meekly. " I  I only thought
her mother being a  a titled person, a  a
viscountess in her own right "

But my dear lady," said Mr Durant, with a
satisfaction in his superior knowledge which Alas
almost unspeakable, " Lady Markham is not a
viscountess in her own right. Dear, no ! She
is not a viscountess at all. She is plain Mrs
Waring, and nothing else, if right was right.
Society only winks good-naturedly at her retaining
the title, which she certainly, if there is
any meaning in the peerage at all, forfeits by
marrying a commoner."

Mrs Durant and Tasie both looked with great
admiration at their head and instructor as he
thus spoke. "You may be sure Mr Durant
says nothing that he is not quite sure of," said
the wife, crushing any possible scepticism on
the part of the inquirer; and "Papa knows
such a lot," added Tasie, awed, yet smiling, on
her side.

Oh, is that all ? " said Mrs Gaunt, greatly
subdued. 'but then. Lord Markham  calls
her his sister, you know."

The nobility," said Mr Durant, " are always
very scrupulous about relationships ; and she is
his step-sister. He couldn't qualify the relationship
by calling her so. A common person

might do so, but not a man of high breeding,
like Lord Markham  that is all."

I suppose you must be right," said Mrs
Gaunt. '' The General said so too. But it does
seem very strange to me that of the same
woman's children, and she a lady of title, one
should be a lord, and the other have no sort of
distinction at all." They all smiled upon her
blandly, every one ready with a new piece of
information, and much sympathy for her ignorance,
which Mrs Gaunt, seeing that it was she
that was likely to be related to Lord Markham,
and not any of the Durants, felt that she could
not bear ; so she jumped up hastily and declared
that she must be going, that the General would
be waiting for her. ' I hope you will come over
some evening, and I will ask the Warings, and
Tasie must bring her music. I am sure you
would like to hear George's violin. He is getting
on so well, with Constance to play his
accompaniments ; " and before any one could
reply to her, Mrs Gaunt had hurried away.

It is painful not to have time tq get out
your retort ; and these excellent people turned
instinctively upon each other to discharge the

unknown arrows. '' It is so very easy, with a
little trouble, to understand the titles, complimentary
and otherwise, of our own nobility,"
said Mr Durant, shaking his head.

And such a sign of want of breeding not to
understand them," said his wife.

The Honourable Constance would sound
very pretty," cried Tasie ; 'it is such a pity."

"Especially, our friend thinks, if it was the
Honourable Constance Gaunt."

That she could never be, my dear," said the
old clergyman mildly. " She might be the
Honourable Mrs Gaunt ; but Constance, no 
not in any case."

I should, like to know why," Mrs Durant
said.

Perhaps here the excellent chaplain's knowledge
failed him ; or he had become weary of
the subject; for he rose and said, "I have
really no more time for a matter which does
not concern us," and trotted away.

The mother and daughter left alone together,
naturally turned to a ]point more interesting
than the claims of Constance to rank. " Do
you really think, mamma," said Tasie  " do you

really, really think,  it is silly to be always
discussing these sort of questions  but do you
believe that Constance Waring actually  means
anything ? "

You should say does George Gaunt mean
anything ? The girl never comes first in such
a question," said Mrs Durant, with that ingrained
contempt for girls which often appears
in elderly women. Tasie was so (traditionally)
young, besides having a heart of sixteen in
her bosom, that her sympathies were all with
the girl.

"I don't think in this case, mamma," she
said. " Constance is so much more a person
of the world than any of us. I don't mean to
say she is worldly. Oh no ! but having been in
society, and so much ou."

I should like to know in what kind of
society she has been," said Mrs Durant, who
took gloomy views. "I don't want to say a
word against Lady Markham ; but society,
Tasie, the kind of society to which your father
and I have been accustomed, looks rather coldly
upon a wife living apart from her husband.
Oh, I don't mean to say Lady Markham was

to blame. Probably she is a most excellent
person ; but the presumption is that at least,
you know, there were  faults on both sides."

I am sure I can't give an opinion," cried
Tasie, " for, of course, I don't know anything
about it. But George Gaunt has nothing but
his pay ; and Constance couldn't be in love
with him, could she ? Oh no ! I don't know
anything about it ; but I can't think a girl like
Constance "

"A girl in a false position," said the chaplain's
wife, " is often glad to marry any one,
just for a settled place in the world."

Oh, but not Constance, mamma ! I am
sure she is just amusing herself."

Tasie ! you speak as if she were the man,"
exclaimed Mrs Durant, in a tone of reproof.

CHAPTER XX.

The subjects of these consultations were at the
moment in the full course of a sonata, and oblivious
of everything else in the world but
themselves, their music, and their concerns
generally. A fortnight had passed of continual
intercourse, of much music, of that propinquity
which is said to originate more matches than
any higher influence. Nothing can be more
curious than the pleasure which young persons,
and even persons who are no longer young,
find perennially in this condition of suppressed
love-making, this preoccupation of all thoughts
and plans in the series of continually recurring
meetings, the confidences, the divinations, the
endless talk which is never exhausted, and in
which the most artificial beings in the world
probably reveal more of themselves than they

themselves know  when the edofe of emotion
is always being touched, and very often, by one
of the pair at least surpassed, in either a
comic or a tragic way. It is not necessary that
there should be any real charm in either party,
and what is still more extraordinary, it is possible
enough that one may be a person of genius,
and the other not far removed from a fool ; that
one may be simple as a rustic, and the other a
man or woman of the world. No rule, in short,
holds in those extraordinary yet most common
and everyday conjunctions. There is an amount
of amusement, excitement, variety, to be found
in them which is in no other kind of diversion.
This is the great reason, no doubt, why imitation
never fails. It is dangerous, which helps
the effect. For those sinners who go into it
voluntarily for the sake of amusement, it has
all the attractions of romance and the drama
combined. If they are intellectual, it is a study
of human character; in all cases, it is an interest
which quickens the colour and the current of
life : who can tell why or how ? It is not the
disastrous love-makings that end in misery and
sin, of which we speak. It is those which are

practised in society every day, which sometimes
end in a heart-break indeed, but often
in nothing at all.

Constance was not unacquainted with the
amusement, though she was so young; and it
is to be feared that she resorted to it deliberately
for the amusement of her otherwise dull
life at the Palazzo, in the first shock of her
loneliness, when she felt herself abandoned.
It was, of course, the victim himself who had
first put the suggestion and the means of carrying
it out into her hands. And she did not
take it up in pure wantonness, but actually
gave a thought to him, and the effect it
might produce upon him, even in the very act
of entering upon her diversion. She said to
herself that Captain Gaunt, too, was very dull ;
that he would want something more than the
society of his father and mother ; that it would
be a kindness to the old people to make his
life amusing to him, since in that case he would
stay, and in the other, not. And as for himself,
if the worst came to the worst, and he
fell seriously in love  as, indeed, seemed rather
likely, judging from the fervour of the beginning

 even that, Constance calculated, would
do him no permanent harm. " Men have died,"
she said to herself, " but not for love." And
then there is that famous phrase about a liberal
education. What was it ? To love her was a
liberal education ? Something of that sort.
Then it could only be an advantage to him ; for
Constance was aware that she herself was cleverer,
more cultivated, and generally far more
"up to " everything than young Gaunt, If he
had to pay for it by a disappointment, really
everybody had to pay for their education in
one way or another; and if he were disappointed,
it would be his own fault ; for he must know
very well, everybody must know, that it was
quite out of the question she should marry him
in any circumstances  entirely out of the question
; unless he was an absolute simpleton, or
the most presumptuous young coxcomb in the
world, he 7nust see that ; and if he were one or
the other, the discovery would do him all the
good in the world. Thus Constance made it
out fully, and to her own satisfaction, that in
any case the experience could do him nothing
but good.

Things had gone very far during this fortnight
 so far, that she sometimes had a doubt
whether they had not gone far enough. For
one thing, it had cost her a great deal in the
way of music. She was a very accomplished
musician for her age, and poor George Gaunt
was one of the greatest bunglers that ever
began to study the violin. It may be supposed
what an amusement this intercourse was to
Constance, when it is said that she bore with
his violin like an angel, laughed and scolded
and encouraged and pulled him along till he
believed that he could play the waltzes of
Chopin and many other things which were as
far above him as the empyrean is above earth.
When he paused, bewildered, imploring her to
go on, assuring her that he could catch her up,
Constance betrayed no horror, but only laughed
till the tears came. She would turn round
upon her music-stool sometimes and rally him
with a free use of a superior kind of slang,
which was unutterably solemn, and quite unknown
to the young soldier, who laboured conscientiously
with his fiddle in the evenings and
mornings, till General Gaunt's life became a

burden to him  in a vain effort to elevate himself
to a standard with which she might be
satisfied. He went to practise in the morning ;
he went in the afternoon to ask if she thought
of making any expedition ? to suggest that his
mother wished very much to take him to see
this or that, and had sent him to ask would
Miss Waring come? Constance was generally
quite willing to come, and not at all afraid to
walk to the bungalow with him, where, perhaps,
old Lucas carriage would be standing to drive
them along the dusty road to the opening of
some valley, where Mrs Gaunt, not a good
climber, she allowed, would sit and wait for
them till they had explored the dell, or inspected
the little town seated at its head.
Captain Gaunt was more punctilious about his
mother's presence as chaperon than Constance
was, who felt quite at her ease roaming with
him among the terraces of the olive woods. It
was altogether so idyllic, so innocent, that there
was no occasion for any conventional safeguards :
and there was nobody to see them or remark
upon the prolonged tete-astute. Constance came
to know the young fellow far better than his

mother did, better than he himself did, in these
walks and talks.

"Miss Waring, don't laugh at a fellow. I
know I deserve it.  Oh yes, do, if you like. I
had rather you laughed than closed the piano.
I had a good long grind at it this morning ; but
somehow these triplets are more than I can
fathom. Let us have that movement again,
will you ? Oh, not if you are tired. As long
as you'll let me sit and talk. I love music withall
my heart, but I love "

Chatter," said Constance. " I know you do.
It is not a dignified word to apply to a gentleman
; but you know. Captain Gaunt, you do
love to chatter."

"Anything to please you," said the young
man. " That wasn't how I intended to end
my sentence. I love to  chatter, if you like,
as long as you will listen  or play, or do anything
; as long as "

"You must allow," said Constance, "that I
listen admirably. I am thoroughly well up in
all your subjects. I know the station as well
as if I lived there."

Don't say that," he cried ; "it makes a man

beside himself. Oh, if there was any chance

that you might ever ! I think  I'm almost

sure  you would like the society in India  it's
so easy ; everybody's so kind. A  a young
couple, you know, as long as the lady is  
delightful."

*but I am not a young couple," said Constance,
with a smile. " You sometimes confuse
your plurals in the funniest way. Is that Indian
too ? Now come, Captain Gaunt, let us get on.
Begin at the andante. One, two  three ! Now,
let's get on."

And then a few bars would be played, and
then she would turn sharp round upon the
music-stool and take the violin out of his
astonished hands.

"Oh, what a shriek! It goes through and
through one's head. Don't you think an instrument
has feelings ? That was a cry of the poor
ill-used fiddle, that could bear no more. Give
it to me." She took the bow in her hands,
and leaned the instrument tenderly against her
shoulder. '' It should be played like this," she
said.

Miss Waring, you can play the violin too ? "

VOL. IL E

"A little," she said, leaning down her soft
cheek against it, as if she loved it, and drawing
a charmingly sympathetic harmony from the
ill-used strings.

"I will never play again," cried the young
man. "Yes, I will  to touch it where you
have touched it. Oh, I think you can do
everything, and make everything perfect you
look at."

''No," said Constance, shaking her head as
she ran the bow softly, so softly over the
strings ; " for you are not perfect at all, though
I have looked at you a great deal. Look ! this
is the way to do it. I am not going to accompany
you any more. I am going to give you
lessons. Take it now, and let me see you play
that passage. Louder, softer  louder. Come,
that was better. I think I shall make something
of you after all."

You can make anything of me," said the
poor young soldier, with his lips on the place
her cheek had touched  " whatever you please."

"A first-rate violin-player, then," said Constance.
"But I don't think my power goes
so high as that. Poor General, what does he

say when you grind, as you call it, all the
morning ? "

'' Oh, mother smooths him down  that is the
use of a mother."

"Is it?" said Constance, with an air of impartial
inquiry. " I didn't know. Come, Captain
Gaunt, we are losing our time."

And then tant hen que mal, the sonata was
oot through.

'' I am glad Beethoven is dead," said Constance,
as she closed the piano. "He is safe
from that at least : he can never hear us play.
When you go home. Captain Gaunt, I advise
you to take lodgings in some quite out-of-the-way
place, about Russell Square, or Islington, or
somewhere, and grind, as you call it, till you
are had up as a nuisance ; or else "

Or else  what. Miss Waring? Anything to
please you."

"Or else  give it up altogether," Constance
said.

His face grew very long ; he was very fond of
his violin. " If you think it is so hopeless as that
'  if you wish me to give it up altogether "

Oh, not I. It amuses me. I like to hear

you break down. It would be quite a pity if
you were to give up, you take my scolding
so delightfully. Don't give it up as long as
you are here, Captain Gaunt. After that, it
doesn't matter what happens  to me."

No," he said, almost with a groan, " it
doesn't matter what happens after that  to me.
It's the Deluge, you know," said the poor young
fellow. " I wish the world would come to an
end first"  thus unconsciously echoing the poet.
But, Miss Waring," he added anxiously, coming
a little closer, " I may come back ? Though
I must go to London, it is not necessary I
should stay there. I may come back ? "

*' Oh, I hope so. Captain Gaunt. What would
your mother do, if you did not come back? But
I suppose she will be going away for the summer.
Everybody leaves Bordighera in the
summer, I hear."

'' I had not thought of that," cried the young
soldier. " And you will be going too ? "

"I suppose so," said Constance. "Papa, I
hope, is not so lost to every sense of duty as
to let me spoil my complexion for ever by staying
here."

"That would be impossible," he said, with
eyes full of admiration.

You intend that for a compliment, Captain
Gaunt ; but it is no compliment. It means
either that I have no complexion to lose, or
that I am one of those thick-skinned people
who take no harm  neither of which is complimentary,
nor true. I shall have to teach you
how to pay compliments as well as how to play
the violin."

Ah, if you only would ! " he cried. " Teach
me how to make myself what you like  how to
speak, how to look, how "

Oh, that is a great deal too much," she said.
I cannot undertake all your education. Do
you know it is close upon noon ? Unless you
are going to stay to breakfast "

Oh, thanks. Miss Waring. They will expect
me at home. But you will give me a
message to take back to my mother. I may
come to fetch you to drive with her today
? "

"It must be dreadfully dull work for her
siting waiting while we explore."

Oh, not at all. She is never dull when

she knows I am enjoying myself  that's the
mother's way."

' Is it ? " said Constance, with once more that
air of acquiring information. " I am not
acquainted with that kind of mother. But
do you think, Captain Gaunt, it is right to enjoy
yourself, as you call it, at your mother's
cost ? "

He gave her a look of great doubt and
trouble. " Oh, Miss "Waring, I don't think you
should put it so. My mother finds her pleasure
in that  indeed she does. Ask herself.
Of course I would not impose upon her, not for
the world ; but she likes it, I assure you she
likes it."

"It is very extraordinary that any one should
like sitting in that carriage for hours with nothing
to do. I will come with pleasure. Captain
Gaunt. I will sit with your mother while you
go and take your walk. That will be more
cheerful for all parties," Constance said.

Young Gaunt 's face grew half a mile long.
He began to expostulate and explain ; but
Waring's step was heard stirring in the next
room, approaching the door, and the young man

had no desire to see the master of the house
with his watch in his hand, demanding to know
why Domenico was so late. Captain Gaunt
knew very well why Domenico was so late.
He knew a way of conciliating the servants,
though he had not yet succeeded with the
young mistress. He said hurriedly, " I will
come for you at three," and rushed away.
Waring came in at one door as Gaunt disappeared
at the other. The delay of the breakfast
was a practical matter, of which, without
any reproach of medievalism, he had a right to
complain.

If you must have this young fellow every
morning, he may at least go away in proper
time," he said, with his watch in his hand, as
young Gaunt had divined.

Oh, papa, twelve is striking loud enough.
You need not produce your watch at the
same time."

Then why have I to wait ? " he said. There
was something awful in his tone. But Domenico
was equal to the occasion, worthy at once of
the lover's and of the father's trust. At that
moment. Captain Gaunt having been got away

while the great bell of Bordighera was still
sounding, the faithful Domenico threw open,
perhaps with a little more sound than was necessary,
an ostentation of readiness, the diningroom
door.

The meal was a somewhat silent one. Perhaps
Constance was pondering the looks which
she had not been able to ignore, the words
which she had managed to quench like so many
fiery arrows before they could set fire to anything,
of her eager lover, and was pale and a
little preoccupied in spite of herself, feeling
that things were going further than she intended
; and perhaps her father, feeling the
situation too serious, and remonstrance inevitable,
was silenced by the thought of what he
had to say. It is so difficult in such circumstances
for two people, with no relief from any
third party, without even that wholesome regard
for the servant in attendance, which keeps the
23eace during many a family crisis  for with
Domenico, who knew no English, they were as
safe as when they were alone  it is very difficult
to find subjects for conversation, that will
not lead direct to the very heart of the matter

wliicli is being postponed. Constance could not
talk of her music, for Gaunt was associated with
it. She could not speak of her walk, for he
was her invariable companion. She could ask
no questions about the neighbourhood, for
was it not to make her acquainted with the
neighbourhood that all those expeditions were
being made ? The great bouquet of anemones
which blazed in the centre of the table came
from Mrs Gaunt's garden. She began to think
that she was buying her amusement too dearly.
As for Waring, his mind was not so full of these
references, but he was occupied by the thought
of what he had to say to this headstrong girl,
and by a strong sense that he was an ill-used
man, in having such responsibilities thrust upon
him against his will. Frances would not have
led him into such difficulties. To Frances,
young Gaunt would have been no more interesting
than his father ; or so at least this man,
whose experience had taught him so little, was
ready to believe.

I want to say something to you, Constance,"
he began at length, after Domenico had left the
room. " You must not stop my mouth by remarks

about middle - age parents. I am a
middle-age parent, so there is an end of it.
Are you going to marry George Gaunt?"

I  going to marry George Gaunt ! Papa! "

"You lead better, I think," said her father.
It will save us all a great deal of embarrassment.
I should not have recommended it, had
I been consulted at the beginning. But you
like to be independent and have your own way ;
and the best thing you can do is to marry. I
don't know how your mother weill take it ; but
so far as I am concerned, I think it would save
everybody a great deal of trouble. You will be
able to turn him round your finger ; that will
suit you, though the want of money may be in
your way."

I think you must mean to insult me, papa,"
said Constance, who had grown crimson:

That is all nonsense, my dear. I am suggesting
what seems the best thing in the circumstances,
to set us all at our ease."

To get rid of me, you mean," she cried.

I have not taken any steps to get rid of
you. I did not invite you, in the first place, you
will remember ; you came of your own will.

But I was very willing to make the best of it.
I let Frances go, who suited me  whom I had
brought up  for your sake. All the rest has
been your doing. Young Gaunt was never invited
by me. I have had no hand in those
rambles of yours. But since you find so much
pleasure in his society "

"Papa, you know I don't find pleasure in
his society ; you know "

Then why do you seek it ? " said Waring,
with that logic which is so cruel.

Constance, on the other side of the tables was
as red as the anemones, and far more brilliant
in the glow of passion. " I have not sought it,"
she cried. " I have let him come  that is all.
I have gone when Mrs Gaunt asked me. Must
a girl marry every man that chooses to be silly ?
Can I help it, if he is so vain ? It is only vanity,"
she said, springing up from her chair,
that makes men think a girl is always ready
to marry. What should I marry for ? If I had

wanted to marry Papa, I don't wish to be

disagreeable, but it is vulgar, if you force me to
sa}?- it  it is common to talk to me so."

I might retort," said Waring.

Oh yes, I know you might retort. It is
common to amuse one's self. So is it common
to breathe and move about, and like a little
fun when you are young. I have no fun here.
There is nobody to talk to, not a thing to do.
How do you suppose I am to get on ? How can
I live without something to fill up my time ? "

Then you must take the consequences," he
said.

In spite of herself, Constance felt a shiver of
alarm. She began to speak, then stopped suddenly,
looked at him with a look of mingled
defiance and terror, and  what was so unlike
her, so common, so weak, as she felt  began to
cry, notwithstanding all she could do to restrain
herself. To hide this unaccountable weakness,
she hastened ofi* and hid herself in her room,
making as if she had gone off in resentment.
Better that, than that he should see her crying
like any silly girl. All this had got on her
nerves, she explained to herself afterwards. The
consequences ! Constance held her breath as
they became dimly apparent to her in an atmosphere
of horror. George Gaunt no longer an

eager lover, whom it was amusing, even exciting
to draw on, to see just on the eve of a self-committal,
which it was the greatest fun in the
worlcl to stop, before it went too far  but the
master of her destinies, her constant and inseparable
companion, from whom she could never
get free, by whom she must not even say that
she was bored to death  gracious powders ! and
with so many other attendant horrors. To goto
India with him, to fall into the life of the
station, to march with the regiment. Constance's
lively imagination pictured a baggage-waggon,
with herself on the top, which made her laugh.
But the reality was not laughable ; it was horrible.
The consequences ! No ; she would not
take the consequences. She would sit with
Mrs Gaunt in the carriage, and let him take his
walk by himself. She would begin to show
him the extent of his mistake from that very
day. To take any stronger step, to refuse to
go out with him at all, she thought, on consideration,
not necessary. The gentler measures
first, which perhaps he might be wise
enough to accept.

But if lie did not accept them, what was
Constance to do ? She had run away from an
impending catastrophe, to take refuge with her
father. But with whom could she take refuge,
if he continued to hold his present strain of
argument ? And unless he would go away of
himself, how was she to shake off this young
soldier? She did not want to shake him off;
he was all the amusement she had. What was
she to do ?

There glanced across her mind for a momenta
sort of desperate gleam of reflection from her
father's words : " You like to be independent ;
the best thing you can do is to marry." There
was a kind of truth in it, a sort of distorted
truth, such as was likely enough to come
through the medium of a mind so wholly at
variance with all established forms. Independent
 there was something in that ; and
India was full of novelty, amusing, a sort of
world she had no experience of. A tremor of
excitement got into her nerves as she heard the
bell ring, and knew that he had come for her.
He ! the only individual who was at all interesting

for the moment, whom she held in her
hands, to do what she pleased with. She could
turn him round her little finger, as her father
said : and independence ! Was it a Mephistopheles
that was tempting her, or a good angel
leading her the right way ?

Chapter XXI.

Frances remembered little of the journey after
it was over, though she was keenly conscious of
everything at the time, if there can be any keen
consciousness of a thing which is all vague, which
conveys no clear idea. Through the darkness of
the night, which came on before she had left the
coast she knew, with all those familiar towns
gleaming out as she passed  Mentone, Monaco
on its headland, the sheltering bays which keep
so warm and bright those cities of sickness, of
idleness, and pleasure  the palms, the olives, the
oranges, the aloe hedges, the roses and heliotropes
 there was a confused and breathless
sweep of distance, half in the dark, half in the
light, the monotonous plains, the lines of poplars,
the straight highroad of France. Paris, where
they stayed for a night, was only like a bigger,

noisier, vast railway station, to Frances. She
had no time, in the hurry of her journey, in
the still greater hurry of her thoughts, to realise
that here was the scene of that dread Revolution
of which she had read with shuddering
excitement  that she was driven past the spot
where the guillotine was first set up, and through
the streets where the tumbrels had rolled, carrying
to that dread death the many tender
victims, who were all she knew of that great
convulsion of history. Markham, who was so
good to her, jut his head out of the carriage
and pointed to a series of great windows
flashing with light. "What a pity there's
no time ! " he said. She asked " For what ? "
with the most complete want of comprehension.
" For shopping, of course," he said,
with a laugh. For shopping ! She seemed
to be unacquainted with the meaning of the
words. In the midst of this strange wave of
the unknown which was carrying her away,
carrying her to a world more unknown still, to
suppose that she could pause and think of shopping
1 The inappropriateness of the suggestion
bewildered Frances. Markham, indeed, alto-vol.

II. F

gather bewildered her. He was very good to
her, attending to her comfort, watchful over
her needs in a way which she could not have
imagined possible. Her father had never been
unkind ; but it did not occur to him to take
care of her. It was she who took care of him.
If there was anything forgotten, it was she who
got the blame ; and when he wanted a book, or
his writing-desk, or a rug to put over his knees,
he called to his little girl to hand it to him,
without the faintest conception that there was
anything incongruous in it. And there was
nothing incongruous in it. If there is any one
in the world whom it is natural to send on your
errands, to get you what you want, surely your
child is that person. Waring did not think on
the subject, but simply did so by instinct, by
nature ; and equally by instinct Frances obeyed,
without a doubt that it was her simplest duty.
If Markham had said, "Get me my book,
Frances ; dear child, just open that bag  hand
me so-and-so," she would have considered it the
most natural thing in the world. What he did
do surprised her much more. He tripped in
and out of his seat at her smallest suggestion.

He pulled up and down the window at her pleasure,
never appearing to think that it mattered
whether he liked it or not. He took her out
carefully on his arm, and made her dine, not
asking what she would have, as her father might
perhaps have done, but bringing her the best
that was to be had, choosing what she should
eat, serving her as if she had been the Queen !
It contributed to the dizzying effect of the
rapid journey that she should thus have been
placed in a position so different from any that
she had ever known.

And then there came the last stage, the
strange leaden-grey stormy sea, which was so
unlike those blue ripples that came up just sofar
 no farther, on the beach at Bordighera.
She began to understand what is said in the
Bible about the waves that mount up like
mountains, when she saw the roll of the
Channel. She had always a little wondered
what that meant. To be sure, there were
storms now and then along the Eiviera, when
the blue edge to the sea-mantle disappeared,
and all became a deep purple, solemn enough
for a king's pall, as it has been the pall of so

many a brave man ; but even that was never
like the dangerous threatening lash of the
waves along those rocks, and the way in
which they raised their awful heads. And
was that England, white with a faint line
of green, so sodden and damp as it looked,
rising out of the sea ? The heart of Frances
sank : it was not like her anticipations. She
had thought there would be something triumphant,
grand, about the aspect of England 
something proud, like a monarch of the sea ;
and it was only a damp, greyish-white line,
rising not very far out of those sullen waves.
An east wind was blowing with that blighting
greyness which here, in the uttermost parts of
the earth, we are so well used to : and it was
cold. A gleam of pale sun indeed shot out of
the clouds from time to time ; but there was
no real warmth in it, and the effect of everything
was depressing. The green fields and
hedgerows cheered her a little ; but it was all
damp, and the sky was grey. And then came
London, with a roar and noise as if they had
fallen into a den of wild beasts, and throngs,
multitudes of  people at every little station

which the quick train flashed past, and on
the platform, where at last she arrived dizzy
and faint with fatigue and wonderment. But
Markham always was more kind than words
could say. He sympathised with her, seeing
her forlorn looks at everything. He did not
ask her how she liked it, what she thought
of her native country. When they arrived at
last, he found out miraculously, among the
crowd of carriages, a quiet, little, dark-coloured
brougham, and put her into it. " We'll
trundle off home," he said, "you and I, Fan,
and let John look after the things ; you are
so tired you can scarcely speak."

Not so much tired," said Frances, and tried
to smile, but could not say any more.

"I understand." He took her hand into his
with the kindest caressing touch. " You mustn't
be frightened, my dear. There's nothing to be
frightened about. You'll like my mother. Perhaps
it was silly of me to say that, and make
you cry. Don't cry, Fan, or I shall cr} too. I
am the foolishness little beggar, you know, and
always do what my companions do. Don't
make a fool of your old brother, my dear.

There, look out and see what a beastly place
old London is, Fan."

"Don't call me Fan," she cried, this slight
irritation affording her an excuse for disburdened
herself of some of the nervous excitement
in her. "Call me Frances, Markham."

Life's too short for a name in two syllables.
I've got two syllables myself, that's true ; but
many fellows call me Mark, and you are welcome
to, if you like. No ; I shall call you Fan ;
you must make up your mind to it. Did you
ever see such murky heavy air ? It isn't air
at all  it's smoke, and animalcule, and everything
that's dreadful. It's not like that blue
stuff on the Eiviera, is it ? "

Oh no ! " cried Frances, with fervour. " But
I suppose London is better for some things,"
she added with a doubtful voice.

Better ! It's better than any other place on
the face of the earth ; it's the only place to live
in," said Markham. "Why, child, it is paradise,"
 he paused a moment, and then added,
with pandemonium next door."

Markham ! " the girl cried.

I was wrong to mention such a place in

your hearing. I know I was. Never mind,
Fan; you shall see the one, and you shall
know nothing about the other. Why, here
we are in Eaton Square."

The door flashed open as soon as the carriage
stopped, letting out a flood of light and warmth.
Markham almost lifted the trembling girl out.
She had got her veil entangled about her head,
her arms in the cloak which she had half thrown
ofi". She was not prepared for this abrupt
arrival. She seemed to see nothing but the
light, to know nothing until she found herself
suddenly in some one's arms ; then the light
seemed to go out of her eyes. Sight had
nothing to do with the sensation, the warmth,
the softness, the faint rustle, the faint perfume,
with which she was suddenly encircled;
and for a few moments she knew nothing more.

Dear, dear, Markham, I hope she is not
delicate  I hope she is not given to fainting,"
she heard in a disturbed but pleasant voice,
before she felt able to open her eyes.

'' Not a bit," said Markham's familiar tones.
She's overdone, and awfully anxious about
meeting you."

*' My poor dear ! Why should she be
anxious about meeting me ? " said the other
voice, a voice round and soft, with a plaintive
tone in it ; and then there came the touch of
a pair of lips, soft and caressing like the voice,
upon the girl's cheek. She did not yet open
her eyes, half because she could not, half because
she would not, but whispered in a faint
little tentative utterance, " Mother ! " wondering
vaguely whether the atmosphere round her,
the kiss, the voice, was all the mother she was
to know.

"My poor little baby, my little girl! open
your eyes. Markham, I want to see the colour
of her eyes."

As if I could open her eyes for you ! " cried
Markham with a strange outburst of sound,
which, if he had been a woman, might have
meant crying, but must have been some sort
of a laugh, since he was a man. He seemed
to walk away, and then came back again.
Come, Fan, that's enough. Open your eyes,
and look at us. I told you there was nothing
to be frightened for."

And then Frances raised herself; for, to her

astonishment, she was lying down upon a sofa,
and looked round her, bewildered. Beside her
stood a little lady, about her own height, with
smooth brown hair like hers, with her hands
clasped, just as Frances was aware she had
herself a custom of clasping her hands. It
began to dawn upon her that Constance had
said she was very like mamma. This newcomer
was beautifully dressed in soft black
satin, that did not rustle  that was far, far
too harsh a word  but swept softly about her
with the faintest pleasant sound ; and round
her breathed that atmosphere which Frances
felt would mean mother to her for ever and
ever,  an air that was infinitely soft, with a
touch in it of some sweetness. Oh, not scent !
She rejected the word with disdain  something,
nothing, the atmosphere of a mother. In the
curious ecstasy in which she was, made up of
fatigue, wonder, and the excitement of this
astounding plunge into the unknown, that was
how she felt.

"Let me look at you, my child. I can't
think of her as a grown girl, Markham. Don't
you know she is my baby. She has never

grown up, like the rest of you, to me. Oh,
did you never wish for me, little Frances ?
Did you never want your mother, my darling ?
Often, often, I have lain awake in the night
and cried for you."

Oh mamma ! " cried Frances, forgetting her
shyness, throwing herself into her mother's
arms. The temptation to tell her that she
had never known anything about her mother,
to excuse herself at her fathers expense, was
strong. But she kept back the words that
were at her lips. " I have always wanted
this all my life," she cried, with a sudden
impulse, and laid her head upon her mother's
breast, feeling in all the commotion and melting;
of her heart a consciousness of the accessories,
the rich softness of the satin, the delicate
perfume, all the details of the new personality
by which her own was surrounded on every side.

"Now I see," cried the new-found mother,
"it was no use parting this child and me,
Markham. It is all the same between us 
isn't it, my darling?  as if we had always
been together  all the same in a moment.
Come up-stairs now, if you feel able, dear one.

Do you think, Markham, she is able to walk
up-stairs ? "

Oil, quite able ; oh, quite, quite well. It
was only for a moment. I was  frightened,
I think."

"But you will never be frightened anymore,"
said Lady Markham, drawing the girl's
arm through her own, leading her away.
Frances was giddy still, and stumbled as she
went, though she had pledged herself never
to be frightened again. She went in a dream
up the softly carpeted stairs. She knew what
handsome rooms were, the lofty bare grandeur
of an Italian palazzo ; but all this carpeting
and cushioning, the softness, the warmth, the
clothed and comfortable look, bewildered her.
She could scarcely find her way through the
drawing-room, crowded with costly furniture,
to the blazing fire, by the side of which stood
the tea-table, like, and yet how unlike, that
anxious copy of English ways which Frances
had set up in the loggia. She was conscious,
with a momentary gleam of complacency, that
her cups and saucers were better, though ! not
belonging to an ordinary modern set, like

these ; but, alas, in everything else how far
short ! Then she was taken up-stairs, through
as she thought  the sumptuous arrangements
of her mother's room, to another smaller, which
opened from it, and in which there was the
same wealth of carpets, curtains, easy-chair's,
and writing-tables, in addition to the necessary
details of a sleeping - room. Frances looked
round it admiringly. She knew nothing about
the modern-artistic, though something, a very
little, about old art. The painted ceilings and
old gilding of the Palazzo  which she began
secretly and obstinately to call home from this
moment forth  were intelligible to her; but
she was quite unacquainted with Mr Morris's
papers and the art fabrics from Liberty's. She
looked at them with admiration, but doubt.
She thought the walls " killed " the pictures
that were hung round, which were not like
her own little gallery at home, which she had
left with a little pang to her sister. " Is this
Constance's room ? " she asked timidly, called
back to a recollection of Constance, and wondering
whether the transfer was to be complete.
No, my love ; it is Frances' room," said

Lady Markham. "It has always been ready
for you. I expected you to come some time.
I have always hoped that ; but I never
thought that Con would desert me." Her
voice faltered a little, which instantly touched
Frances' heart.

I asked," she said, " not just out of curiosity,
but because, when she came to us, I
gave her my room. Our rooms are not like
these ; they have very few things in them.
There are no carpets ; it is warmer there, you
know ; but I thought she would find the blue
room so bare, I gave her mine."

Lady Markham smiled upon her, and said,
but with a faint, the very faintest indication
of being less interested than Frances was,
"You have not many visitors, I suppose?"

Oh, none 1 " cried Frances. " I suppose weare
 rather poor. We are not  like this."

My darling, you don't know how to speak
to me, your own mother ! What do you mean,
dear, by lue ? You must learn to mean something
else by we. Your father, if he had
chosen, might have had  all that you see,
and more. And Constance But we will

say nothing more to-night on that subject.
This is Con's room, see, on the other side of
mine. It was always my fancy, my hope,
some time to have my two girls, one on each
side."

Frances followed her mother to the room on
the other side with great interest. It was still
more luxurious than the one appropriated to
herself  more comfortable, as a room which
has been occupied, which shows traces of its
tenant's tastes and likings, must naturally be ;
and it was brighter, occupying the front of the
house, while that of Frances' looked to the side.
She glanced round at all the fittings and decorations,
which, to her unaccustomed eyes,
were so splendid. *poor Constance!" she
said under her breath.

Why do you say poor Constance ? " said
Lady Markham, with something sharp and
sudden in her tone. And then she, too, said
regretfully, " Poor Con ! You think it will
be disappointing to her, this other life which
she has chosen. Was it  dreary for you, my
poor child ? "

Then there rose up in the tranquil mind of

Frances a kind of tempest-blast of opposition
and resentment. "It is the only life I know
it was  everything I liked best," she cried.
The first part of the sentence was very firmly,
almost aggressively said. In the second, she
wavered, hesitated, changed the tense  it was.
She did not quite know herself what the change
meant.

Lady Markham looked at her with a penetrating
gaze. " It was  everything you knew,
my little Frances. I understand you, my dear.
You will not be disloyal to the past. But to
Constance, who does not know it, who knows

something else Poor Con ! I understand.

But she will have to pay for her experience,
like all the rest."

Frances had been profoundly agitated, but in
the way of happiness. She did not feel happy
now. She felt disposed to cry, not because of
the relief of tears, but because she did not
know how else to express the sense of contrariety,
of disturbance that had got into her
mind. Was it that already a wrong note had
sounded between herself and this unknown
mother, whom it had been a rapture to see

and touch ? Or was it only that she was
tired ? Lady Markham saw the condition into
which her nerves and temper were strained.
She took her back tenderly into her room.
"My dear," she said, "if you would rather
not, don't change your dress. Do just as you
please to-night. I would stay and help you,
or I would send Josephine, my maid, to help
you ; but I think you will prefer to be left
alone and quiet."

Oh yes," cried Frances with fervour ; then
she added hastily, " If you do not think me
disagreeable to say so."

I am not prepared to think anything in
you disagreeable, my dear," said her mother,
kissing her  but with a sigh. This sigh
Frances echoed in a burst of tears when the
door closed and she found herself alone  alone,
quite alone, more so than she had ever been
in her life, she whispered to herself, in the
shock of the unreasonable and altogether fantastic
disappointment which had followed her
ecstasy of pleasure. Most likely it meant
nothing at all but the reaction from that too
highly raised level of feeling.

No ; I am not disappointed," Lady Markham
was saying down-stairs. She was standing
before the genial blaze of the fire, looking
into it with her head bent and a serious
expression on her face. " Perhaps I was
too much delighted for a moment ; but she,
poor child, now that she has looked at mea
second time, she is a little, just a little
disappointed in me. That's rather hard fora
mother, you know ; or I suppose you don't
know."

I never was a mother," said Markham. " I
should think it's very natural. The little thing
has been forming the most romantic ideas. If
you had been an angel from heaven "

'' Which I am not," she said with a smile, still
looking into the fire.

Heaven be praised," said Markham. " In
that case, you would not have suited me 
which you do, mammy, you know, down to
the ground."

She gave a half glance at him, a half smile,
but did not disturb the chain of her reflections.
That's something, Markham," she said.

"Yes; it's something. On my side, it is
VOL. IL G .

a great deal. Don't go too fast with little
Fan. She has a deal in her. Have a little
patience, and let her settle down her own
way."

I don't feel sure that she has not got her
father's temper ; I saw something like it in her
eyes."

"That is nonsense, begging your pardon.
She has got nothing of her father in her eyes.
Her eyes are like yours, and so is everything
about her. My dear mother, Con's like Waring,
if you like. This one is of our side of
the house."

Do you really think so ? " Lady Markham
looked up now and laid her hand affectionately
upon his shoulder, and laughed. 'but, my
dear boy, you are as like the Markham as you
can look. On my side of the house, there is
nobody at all, unless, as you say "

Frances," said the little man. "I told you
the best of the lot. I took to her in a moment
by that very token. Therefore, don't go
too fast with her, mother. She has her own
notions. She is as stanch as a little  Turk,"

said Markham, using the first word that offered.
When he met this mother's eye, he retired a
little, with the air of a man who does not mean
to be questioned ; which naturally stimulated
curiosity in her mind.

How have you found out that she is stanch,
Markham ? "

Oh, in half-a-dozen ways," he answered,
carelessly. " And she will stick to her father
through thick and thin, so mind wdiat you
say."

Then Lady Markham began to bemoan herself
a little gently, before the fire, in the most
luxurious of easy-chairs.

Was ever woman in such a position," she
said, " to be making acquaintance, for the first
time, at eighteen, with my own daughter 
and to have to pick my words and to be
careful what I say ? "

"Well, mammy," said Markham, "it might
have been worse. Let us make the best of it.
He has always kept his word, which is something,
and has never annoyed you. And it is
quite a nice thing for Con to have him to goto,

to find out how dull it is, and know her
own mind. And now we've got the other one
too."

Lady Markham still rocked herself a little in
her chair, and put her handkerchief to her
eyes. " For all that, it is very hard, both on
her and me," she said.

Chapter XXII.

Lady Markham's story was one which was
very well known to Society  to which everything
is known  though it had remained so
long a secret, and was still a mystery to one
of her children. Waring had been able to
lose himself in distance, and keep his position
concealed from every one ; but it was clear
that his wife could not do so, remaining as
she did in the world which was fully acquainted
with her, and which required an
explanation of everything that happened.
Perhaps it is more essential to a woman
than to a man that her position should be
fully explained, though it is one of the drawbacks
of an established place and sphere,
which is seldom spoken of, yet is very real,
and one of the greatest embarrassments of

life. So long as existence is without complications,
this matters little ; but when these
arise, those difficulties which so often distract
the career of a family, the inevitable explanations
that have to be made to the little
interested ring of spectators, is often the
worst part of domestic trouble. Waring,
whose temperament was what is called sensitive
 that is, impatient, self-willed, and unenduring
 would not submit to. such a necessity.
But a woman cannot fly ; she must stand in
her place, if she has any regard for that place,
and for the reputation which it is common to.
say is more delicate and easily injured than is
that of a man  and make her excuse to the
world. Perhaps, as, sooner or later, excuses
and explanations must be afforded, it is the
wiser plan to get over them publicly and at
once ; for even Waring, as has been seen,
though he escaped, and had a dozen years of
tranquillity, had at the last to submit himself
to the questions of Mr Durant. All that was
over for these dozen years with Lady Markham.
Everybody knew exactly what her
position was. Scandal had never breathed

upon her, either at the moment of the separation
or afterwards. It had been a foolish,
romantic love-marriage between a woman of
Society and a man who was half rustic, half
scholar. They had found after a time that
they could not endure each other  as anybody
with a head on his shoulders could have told
them from the beginning. Society said. And
then he had taken the really sensible though wild
and romantic step of banishing himself and leaving
her free. There were some who had supposed
this a piece of bizarre generosity, peculiar to the
man, and some who thought it only a natural
return to the kind of life that suited him best.

Lady Markham had, of course, been censured
for this, her second marriage ; and equally,
of course, was censured for the breach of it 
for the separation, which, indeed, was none
of her doing ; for retaining her own place
when her husband left her ; and, in short, for
every step she had taken in the matter from
first to last. But that was twelve years ago,
which is a long time in all circumstances, and
which counts for about a century in Society :
and nobody thought of blaming her any

longer, or of remarking at all upon the matter.
The present lords and ladies of fashionable
life had always known her as she was, and there
was no further question about her history.
When, in the previous season. Miss Waring
had made her debut in Society, and achieved
the success which had been so remarkable,
there was indeed a little languid question as
to who was her father among those who remembered
that Waring was not the name of
the Markham family ; but this was not interesting
enough to cause any excitement. And
Frances, still thrilling with the discovery of.
the other life, of which she had never suspected
the existence, and ignorant even now
of everything except the mere fact of it, suddenly
found herself embraced and swallowed up
in a perfectly understood aud arranged routine
in which there was no mystery at all.

The first thing you must do is to make
acquaintance with your relations," said Lady
Markham next morning; at breakfast. " Fortunately,
we have this quiet time before Easter
to get over all these preliminaries. Your aunt
Clarendon will expect to see you at once."

Frances was greatly disturbed by this new
discovery. She gave a covert glance at Markham,
who, though it was not his habit to
appear so early, had actually produced himself
at breakfast to see how the little one was
getting on. Markham looked back again,
elevating his eyebrows, and not understanding
at first what the question meant.

"And there are all the cousins," said the
mother, with that plaintive tone in her voice.
"My dear, I hope you are not in the way of
forming friendships, for there are so many of
them ! I think the best thing will be to get
over all these duty introductions at once. I
must ask the Clarendonss  don't you think,
Markham?  to dinner, and perhaps the Peyton,
 quite a family party's'

Certainly, by all means," said Markham ;
but first of all, don't you think she wants to
be dressed ? "

Lady Markham looked at Frances critically
from her smooth little head to her neat little
shoes. The girl was standing by the fire, with
her head reclined against the mantelpiece of
carved oak, which, as a " reproduction," was

very much thought of in Eaton Square.
Frances felt that the blush with which she
met her mother's look must be seen, though
she turned her head away, through the criticised
clothes.

Her dress is very simple ; but there is
nothing in bad taste. Don't you think I might
take her anywhere as she is ? I did not notice
her hat," said Lady Markham, with gravity ;

'' but if that is right Simplicity is quite

the rig-ht thing: at eighteen "

And in Lent," said Markham.

"It is quite true ; in Lent, it is better than
the right thing  it is the best thing. My dear,
you must have had a very good maid. Foreign
women have certainly better taste than the
class we get our servants from. What a pity
you did not bring her with you ! One can
always find room for a clever maid."

I don't believe she had any maid ; it is all
out of her own little head," said Markham. " I
told you not to let yourself be taken in. She
has a deal in her, that little thing."

Lady Markham smiled, and gave Frances
a kiss, enfolding her once more in that soft

atmosphere which had been such a revelation
to her last night. "I am sure she is a dear
little girl, and is going to be a great comfort
to me. You will want to write your letters
this morning, my love, which you must do
before lunch. And after lunch, we will go and
see your aunt. You know that is a matter of 
what shall we call it, Markham ?  conscience :
with me."

'* Pride," Markham said, coming and standing
by them in front of the fire.

"Perhaps a little," she answered with a
smile ; " but conscience too. I would not have
her say that I had kept the child from her fora
single day."

That is how conscience speaks, Fan," said
Markham. "You will know next time you
hear it. And after the Clarendonss ? "

Well  of course, there must be a hundred
things the child wants. We must look at your
evening dresses together, darling. Tell Josephine
to lay them out and let me see them.
We are going to have some people at the Priory
for Easter ; and when we come back, there will
be no time. Yes, I think on our way home

from Portland Place we must just look into  a
shop or two."

Now my mind is relieved," Markham said.
I tlioiight you were going to change the
course of nature, Fan."

The child is quite bewildered by your nonsense,
Markham," the mother said.

And this was quite true. Frances had never
been on such terms with her father as would
have entitled her to venture to laugh at him.
She was confused with this new phase, as well
as with her many other discoveries : and it
appeared to her that Markham looked just as
old as his mother. Lady Markham was fresh
and fair, her complexion as clear as a girl's, and
her hair still brown and glossy. If art in anyway
added to this perfection, Frances had no
suspicion of such a possibility. And when she
looked from her mother's round and soft contour
to the wrinkles of Markham, and his
no-colour and indefinite age, and heard him
address her with that half-caressing, half-bantering
equality, the girl's mind grew more and
more hopelessly confused. She withdrew, as
was expected of her, to write her letters,

though without knowing how to fulfil that
duty. She could write (of course) to her
father. It was of course, and so was what she
told him. "We arrived about six o'clock,
was dreadfully confused with the noise and the
crowds of people. Mamma was very kind.
She bids me send you her love. The house is
very fine, and full of furniture, and fires in all
the rooms ; but one wants that, for it is much
colder here. We are going out after luncheon
to call on my aunt Clarendon. I wish very
much I knew who she was, or who my other
relations are ; but I suppose I shall find out intime."
This was the scope of Frances' letter.
And she did not feel warranted, somehow, in
writing to Constance. She knew so little of
Constance : and was she not in some respects
a supplanter, taking Constance's place ? When
she had finished her short letter to her father,
which was all fact, with very few reflections,
Frances paused and looked round her, and felt
no further inspiration. Should she write to
Mariuccia? But that would require time 
there was so much to be said to Mariuccia.
Facts were not what she would want  at least,

the facts would have to be of a different kind ;
and Frances felt that daylight and all the
arrangements of the new life, the necessity to
be ready for luncheon and to go out after, were
not conditions under which she could begin to
pour out her heart to her old nurse, the attendant
of her childhood. She must put off
till the evening, when she should be alone and
undisturbed, with time and leisure to collect all
her thoughts and first impressions. She put
down her pen, which was not, indeed, an instrument
she was much accustomed to wield,
and beoan to think instead : but all her thinking
would not tell her who the relatives were
to whom she was about to be presented ; and
she reflected with horror that her ignorance
must betray the secret which she had so carefully
kept, and expose her father to further and
further criticism.

There was only one way of avoiding this
danger, and that was through Markham, who
alone could help her, who was the only individual
in whom she could feel a confidence
that he would give her what information he
could, and understand why she asked. If she

could but find Markham ! She went down-stairs,
timidly flitting along the wide staircase through
the great drawing-room, which was vacant, and
found no trace of him. She lingered, peeping
out from between the curtains of the windows
upon the leafless gardens outside in the spring
sunshine, the passing carriages which she could
see through their bare boughs, the broad pavement
close at hand with so few passengers, the
clatter now and then of a hansom, which
amused her even in the midst of her perplexity,
or the drawing up of a brougham at some
neighbouring door. After a minute's distraction
thus, she returned again to make further
investigations from the drawing-room door, and
peep over the balusters to watch for her
brother. At last she had the good luck to
perceive him coming out of one of the rooms
on the lower floor. She darted down as swift
as a bird, and touched him on the sleeve. He
had his hat in his hand, as if preparing to go
out. " Oh," she said in a breathless whisper,
I want to speak to you ; I want to ask you
something,"  holding up her hand with a warning
o- hush.

*what is it?" returned Markham, chiefly
with his eyebrows, with a comic affectation of
silence and secrecy which tempted her to laugh
in spite of herself. Then he nodded his head,
took her hand in his, and led her up-stairs to
the drawing-room again. "What is it you
want to ask me ? Is it a state secret ? The
palace is full of spies, and the walls of ears,"
said Markham with mock solemnity, "and I
may risk my head by following you. Fair
conspirator, what do you want to ask ? "

Oh, Markham, don't laugh at me  it is
serious. Please, who is my aunt Clarendon ? "

You little Spartan ! " he said ; " you are a
plucky little girl. Fan. You won't betray the
daddy, come what may. You are quite right,
my dear; but he ought to have told you. I
don't approve of him, though I approve of
you."

Papa has a right to do as he pleases," said
Frances steadily; "that is not what I asked
you, please."

He stood and smiled at her, patting her on
the shoulder. " I wonder if you will stand by
me like that, when you hear me get my due ?

Alio is your aunt Clarendon ? She is your
father's sister, Fan ; I think the only one who
is left'

Papa's sister 1 I thought it must be  on
the other side."

"My mother," said Markham, "has few relations
 which is a misfortune that I bear with
equanimity. Mrs Clarendon married a lawyer
a great many years ago, Fan, when he was
poor ; and now he is very rich, and they will
make him a judge one of these days."

A judge," said Frances. " Then he must
be very good and wise. And my aunt "

My dear, the wife's qualities are not as yet
taken into account. She is very good, I don't
doubt ; but they don't mean to raise her to
the Bench. You must remember when you go
there, Fan, that they are the other side."

What do you mean by ' the other side ' ? "
inquired Frances anxiously, fixing her eyes
upon the kind, queer, insignificant personage,
who yet was so important in this house.

Markham gave forth that little chuckle of a
laugh which was his special note of merriment.
"You will soon find it out for yourself," he

VOL. II. H

replied; "but the clear old mammy can hold
her own. Is that all ? for I'm running off ; I
have an engagement."

"Oh, not all  not half. I want you to tell
me  I want to know  I  I don't know whereto
begin," said Frances, with her hand on the
sleeve of his coat.

"Nor I," he retorted with a laugh. "Let
me go now ; we'll find an opportunity. Keep
your eyes, or rather your ears, open ; but don't
take all you hear for gospel. Good-bye till tonight.
I'm coming to dinner to-night."

"Don't you live here?" said Frances, accompanying
him to the door.

Not such a fool, thank you," replied Markham,
stopping her gently, and closing the door
of the room with care after him as he went away.

Frances was much discouraged by finding
nothing but that closed door in front of her
where she had been gazing into his ugly but
expressive face. It made a sort of dead stop,
an emphatic punctuation, marking the end.
Why should he say he was not such a fool as to
live at home with his mother? Why should
he be so nice and yet so odd ? Why had Constance

warned her not to put herself in Markham's
hands ? All this confused the mind of
Frances whenever she began to think. And
she did not know what to do with herself.
She stole to the window and watched through
the white curtains, and saw him go away in the
hansom which stood waiting at the door. She
felt a vacancy in the house after his departure,
the loss of a support, an additional silence and
sense of solitude ; even something like a panic
took possession of her soul. Her impulse was
to rush up-stairs again and shut herself ujd in
her room. She had never yet been alone with
her mother except for a moment. She dreaded
the (quite unnecessary, to her thinking) meal
which was coming, at which she must sit down
opposite to Lady Markham, with that solemn
old gentleman, dressed like Mr Durant, and
that gorgeous theatrical figure of a footman,
serving the two ladies. Ah, how different from
Domenico  poor Domenico, who had called her
carina from her childhood, and who wept over
her hand as he kissed it, dien she was coming
away. Oh, when should she see these faithful
friends again ?

''I want you to be quite at your ease with
your aunt Clarendon," said Lady Markham at
luncheon, when the servants had left the room.
She will naturally want to know all about
your father and your way of living. We have
not talked very much on that subject, my dear,
because, for one thing, we have not had much

time ; and because But she will want to

know all the little details. And, my darling,
I want just to tell you, to warn you. Poor
Caroline is not very fond of me. Perhaps it
is natural. She may say things to you about
your mother "

Oh no, mamma," said Frances, looking up
in her mother's face.

'' You don't know, my dear. Some people
have a great deal of prejudice. Your aunt
Caroline, as is quite natural, takes a different
view. I wonder if I can make you understand
what I mean without using words which I don't
want to use ? "

Yes," said Frances ; '' you may trust me,
mamma ; I think I understand."

Lady Markham rose and came to where her
child sat, and kissed her tenderly. " My dear,

I think you will be a great comfort to me,"
she said. " Constance was always hot-headed.
She would not make friends, when I wished
her to make friends. The Clarendonss are very
rich ; they have no children, Frances. Naturally,
I wish you to stand well with them.
Besides, I would not allow her to suppose fora
moment that I would keep you from her 
that is what I call conscience, and Markham
pride."

Frances did not know what to reply. 'She
did not understand what the wealth of the jf"
Clarendonss had to do with it ; everything else
she could understand. She was very willing,
nay, eager to see her father's sister, yet very
determined that no one should say a word to
her to the detriment of her mother. So far as
that went, in her own mind all was clear.

Chapter XXIII.

Mrs Clarendon lived in one of the great houses
in Portland Place which fashion has abandoned.
It was very silent, wrapped in that stillness
and decorum which is one of the chief signs of
an entirely well-regulated house, also of a place
in which life is languid and youth does not
exist. Frances followed her mother with a
beating heart through the long wide hall and
large staircase, over soft carpets, on which their
feet made no sound. She thought they were
stealing in like ghosts to some silent place in
which mystery of one kind or other must attend
them ; but the room they were ushered into
was only a very large, very still drawing-room,
in painfully good order, inhabited by nothing
but a fire, which made a little sound and flicker
that preserved it from utter death. The blinds

were drawn half over the windows ; the long
curtains hung down in dark folds. There were
none of the quaintness, the modern aesthetic
the crowds of small picturesque articles
of furniture impeding progress, in which Lady
Markham delighted. The furniture was all
solid, durable  what upholsterers call very
handsome  huge mirrors over the mantelpieces,
a few large portraits in chalk on the
walls, solemn ornaments on the table ; a large
and brilliantly painted china flower-pot enclosing
a large plant of the palm kind, dark-green
and solemn, like everything else, holding the
place of honour. It was very warm and comfortable,
full of low easy-chairs and sofas, but
at the same time very severe and forbidding,
like a place into which the common occupations
of life were never brought.

She never sits here," said Lady Markham ina
low tone. ' ' She has a morning-room that is
cosy enough. She comes up here after dinner,
when Mr Clarendon takes a nap before he
looks over his briefs ; and he comes up at.
ten o'clock for ten minutes and takes a cup
of tea. Then she goes to bed. That is about

all the intercourse they have, and all the time
the drawing-room is occupied, except when
people come to call. That is why it has such a
depressing look."

'* Is she not happy, then ? " said Frances wistfully,
which was a silly question, as she now
saw as soon as she had uttered it.

'' Happy ! Oh, probably just as happy as
other people. That is not a question that is
ever asked in Society, my dear. Why shouldn't
she be happy ? She has everything she has
ever wished for  plenty of money  for they
are very rich  her husband quite distinguished
in his sphere, and in the way of advancement.
What could she want more ? She is a lucky
woman, as women go."

Still she must be dull, with no one to speak
to," said Frances, looking round her with a
glance of dismay. What she thought was, that
it would probably be her duty to come here to
make a little society for her aunt, and her heart
sank at the sight of this decent, nay, handsome
gloom, with a sensation which Mariuccia's kitchen
at home, which only looked on the court,
or the dimly lighted rooms of the villagers, had

never given her. The silence was terrible, and
struck a chill to her heart. Then all at once
the door opened, and Mrs Clarendon came intaking
the young visitor entirely by surprise ;
for the soft carpets and thick curtains so entirely
shut out all sound, that she seemed to glide
in like a ghost to the ghosts already there.
Frances, unaccustomed to English comfort, was
startled by the absence of sound, and missed
the indication of the footstep on the polished
floor, which had so often warned her to lay aside
her innocent youthful visions at the sound of
her father's approach. Mrs Clarendon coming in
so softly seemed to arrest them in the midst of
their talk about her, bringing a flush to Frances'
face. She was a tall woman, fair and pale, with
cold grey eyes, and an air which was like that
of her rooms  the air of being unused, of being
put against the wall like the handsome furniture.
She came up stiffly to Lady Markham,
who went to meet her with effusion, holding
out both hands.

I am so glad to see sou, Caroline. I
feared you might be out, as it was such a beautiful
day."

"Is it a beautiful day? It seemed to me
cold, looking out. I am not very energetic,
you know  not like you. Have I seen this
young lady before ? "

You have not seen her for a long time  not
since she was a child ; nor I either, which is
more wonderful. This is Frances. Caroline, I

told you I expected "

My brother's child 1 " Mrs Clarendon said,
fixing her eyes upon the girl, who came forward
with shy eagerness. She did not open her arms,
as Frances expected. She inspected her carefully
and coldly, and ended by saying, " But
she is like you," with a certain tone of
reproach.

That is not my fault," said Lady Markham,
almost sharply ; and then she added : " For the
matter of that, they are both your brother's
children  though, unfortunately, mine too."

"You know my opinion on that matter," said
Mrs Clarendon ; and then, and not till then, she
gave Frances her hand, and stooping kissed heron
the cheek. "Your father writes very seldom,
and I have never heard a word from you.
All the same, I have always taken an interest in

you. It must be very sad for you, after the life
to which you have been accustomed, to be suddenly
sent here without any will of your own."

Oh no," said Frances. " I was very glad to
come, to see mamma."

That's the proper thing to say, of course,"
the other said with a cold smile. There was
just enough of a family likeness to her father
to arrest Frances in her indignation. She was
not allowed time to make an answer, even had
she possessed confidence enough to do so, for
her aunt went on, without looking at her again :
'' I suppose you have heard from Constance ?
It must be difficult for her too, to reconcile
herself with the different kind of life. My
brother's quiet ways are not likely to suit a
young lady about town."

Frances will be able to tell you all about it,"
said Lady Markham, who kept her temper with
astonishing self-control. '' She only arrived last
night. I would not delay a moment in bringing
her to you. Of course, you will like to hear.
Markham, who went to fetch his sister, is of
opinion that on the whole the change will do
Constance good."

I don't at all doubt it will do her good. To
associate with my brother would do any one
good  who is worthy of it ; but of course it will
be a great change for her. And this child will
be kept just long enough to be infected with
worldly ways, and then sent back to him spoilt
for his life. I suppose, Lady Markham, that is
what you intend ? "

You are so determined to think badly of
me," said Lady Markham, " that it is vain forme
to say anything ; or else I might remind
you that Con's going off was a greater surprise
to me than to any one. You know what were,
my views for her ? "

"Yes. I rather wonder why you take the
trouble to acquaint me with your plans," Mrs
Clarendon said.

"It is foolish, perhaps; but I have a feeling
that as Edward's only near relation "

Oh, I am sure I am much obliged to you for
your consideration," the other cried quickly.
Constance was never influenced by me ;
though I don't wonder that her soul revolted
at such a marriage as you had prepared for
her." .

"Why ? " cried Lady Markham quickly, with
an astonished glance. Then she added with a
smile : "I am afraid you will see nothing but
harm in any plan of mine. Unfortunately, Con
did not like the gentleman whom I approved.
I should not have put any force upon her.
One can't nowadays, if one wished to. It is
contrary, as she says herself, to the spirit of
the times. But if you will allow me to say so,
Caroline, Con is too like her father to bear
anything, to put up with anything that "

Thank heaven ! " cried Mrs Clarendon.
She is indeed a little like her dear father,
notwithstanding a training so different. And
this one, I suppose  this one you find like you?"

I am happy to think she is a little, in externals
at least," said Lady Markham, taking
Frances' hand in her own. " But Edward has
brought her up, Caroline ; that should be a
passport to your affections at least."

Upon this, Mrs Clarendon came down as from
a pedestal, and addressed herself to the girl,
over whose astonished head this strange dialogue
had gone. "I am afraid, my dear, you
will think me very hard and disagreeable," she

said. " I will not tell you why, though I think
I could make out a case. How is your dear
father? He writes seldom and seldom 
sometimes not even at Christmas ; and I am
afraid you have little sense of family duties,
which is a pity at your age."

Frances did not know how to reply to this
accusation, and she was confused and indignant,
and little disposed to attempt to please.
"Papa," she said, "is very well. I have heard
him say that he could not write letters  our
life was so quiet : there was nothing to says"

Ah, my dear, that is all very well for
strangers, or for those who care more about
the outside than the heart. But he might
have known that anything, everything would
be interesting to me. It is just your quiet
life that I like to hear about. Society has
little attraction for me. I suppose you are
half an Italian, are you ? and know nothing
about English life."

She looks nothing but English," said Lady
Markham in a sort of parenthesis.

"The only people I know are English," said
Frances. " Papa is not fond of society. We

see the Saints and the Duraiits, but nobody
else. I have always tried to be like my own
country-people, as well as I could."

And vith great success, my dear," said her
mother with a smiling look.

Mrs Clarendon said nothing, but looked at
her with silent criticism. Then she turned to
Lady Markham. "Naturally," she said, "I
should like to make acquaintance with my
niece, and hear all the details about my dear
brother ; but that can't be done in a morning
call. Will you leave her with me for the day ?
Or may I have her tomorrow, or the day after ?
Any time will suit me."

She only arrived last night, Caroline. 1
suppose even you will allow that the mother
should come first. Thursday, Frances shall
spend with you, if that suits you ? "

Thursday, the third day," said Mrs Clarendon,
ostentatiously counting on her fingers 
during which interval you will have full

time Oh yes, Thursday will suit me.

The mother, of course, conventionally, has, as
you say, the first right."

Conventionally and naturally too," Lady

Markham replied ; and then there was a silence,
and they sat looking at each other. Frances,
who felt her innocent self to be something like
the bone of contention over which these two
ladies were wrangling, sat with downcast eyes
confused and indignant, not knowing; what todo
or say. The mistress of the house did nothing
to dissipate the embarrassment of the
moment : she seemed to have no wish to set
her visitors at their ease, and the pause, during
which the ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece
and the occasional fall of ashes from the
fire came in as a sort of chorus or symphony,
loud and distinct, to fill up the interval, was
half painful, half ludicrous. It seemed to the
quick ears of the girl thus suddenly introduced
into the arena of domestic conflict, that there
was a certain irony in this inarticulate commentary
upon those petty miseries of life.

At last, at the end of what seemed half an
hour of silence. Lady Markham rose and spread
her wings  or at least shook out her silken
draperies, which comes to the same thing. " As
that is settled, we need not detain you any
longer," she said.

Mrs Clarendon rose too, slowly. '' I cannot
expect," she replied, "that you can give up your
valuable time to me ; but mine is not so much
occupied. I will expect you, Frances, before
one o'clock on Thursday. I lunch at one ; and
then if there is anything you want to see or do,
I shall be glad to take you wherever you like.
I suppose I may keep her to dinner ? Mr
Clarendon will like to make acquaintance with
his niece."

"Oh, certainly ; as long as you and she
please," said Lady Markham with a smile. " I
am not a medieval parent, as poor Con says."

"Yet it was on that ground that Constance
abandoned you and ran away to her father,"
quoth the implacable antagonist.

Lady Markham, calm as she was, grew red to
her hair. " I don't think Constance has abandoned
me," she cried hastily ; " and if she has,

the fault is But there is no discussion

possible between people so hopelessly of different
opinions as you and I," she added, recovering
her composure. " Mr Clarendon is well, I hope ? "

Very well. Good morning, since you will
go," said the mistress of the house. She

VOL. IL  I

dropped another cold kiss upon Frances' cheek.
It seemed to the girl, indeed, who was angry
and horrified, that it was her aunt's nose, which
was a long one and very chilly, which touched
her. She made no response to this nasal salutation.
She felt, indeed, that to give a slap to
that other cheek would be much more expressive
of her sentiments than a kiss, and followed
her mother down-stairs hot with resentment.
Lady Markham, too, was moved. When she
got into the brougham, she leant back in her
corner and put her handkerchief lightly to the
corner of each eye. Then she laughed, and laid,
her hand upon Frances' arm.

You are not to think I am grieving," she
said; "it is only rage. Did you ever know

such a ? But, my dear, we must recollect

that it is natural  that she is on the other side'

Is it natural to be so unkind, to be so
cruel ? " cried Frances. " Then, mamma, I shall
hate England, where I once thought everything
was good."

"' Everything is not good anywhere, my love ;
and Society, I fear, above all, is far from being
perfect,  not that your poor dear aunt Caroline

can be said to be in Society," Lady Markham
added, recovering her spirits. "I don't think
they see anybody but a few lawyers like themselves."


*but, mamma, why do you go to see her?
Why do you endure it ? You promised for me,
or I should never go back, neither on Thursday
nor any other time."

Oh, for goodness' sake, Frances, my dear !
I hope you have not got those headstrong
Waring ways. Because she hates me, that is
no reason why she should hate you. Even
Con saw as much as that. You are of her
own blood, and her near relation : and I never
heard that he took very much to any of the
young people on his side. And they are very
rich. A man like that, at the head of his profession,
must be coining money. It would be
wicked of me, for any little tempers of mine, to
risk what might be a fortune for my children.
And you know I have very little more than my
jointure, and your father is not rich."

This exposition of motives was like another
language to Frances. She gazed at her mother's
soft face, so full of sweetness and kindness, with

a sense that Lady Markham was under the sway
of motives and influences which had been left
out in her own simple education. Was it
supreme and self-denying generosity, or was it
something else ? The girl was too inexperienced,
too ignorant to tell. But the contrast
between Lady Markham's wonderful temper and
forbearance and the harsh and ungenerous tone
of her aunt, moved her heart out of the region
of reason. " If you put up with all that for us,
I cannot see any reason why we should put up
with it for you ! " she cried indignantly. '' She
cannot have any right to speak to my mother
so  and before me."

"Ah, my darling, that is just the sweetness
of it to her. If we were alone, I should not
mind ; she might say what she liked. It is
because of you that she can make me feel  a
little. But you must take no notice ; you must
leave me to fight my own battles."

Why ? " Frances flung up her young head,
till she looked about a foot taller than her
mother. " I will never endure it, mamma ;
sou may say what you like. What is her
fortune to me?"

My love ! " she exclaimed ; " why, you little
savage, her fortune is everything to you ! It
may make all the difference." Then she laughed
rather tremulously, and leaning over, bestowed
a kiss upon her stranger-child's half-reluctant
cheek. " It is very, very sweet of you to make
a stand for your mother," she said, " and when
you know so little of me. The horrid people in
Society would say that was the reason ; but I
think you would defend your mother anyhow,
my Frances, my child that I have always missed !
But look here, dear : you must not do it. I am
old enough to take care of myself. And your
poor aunt Clarendon is not so bad as you think.
She believes she has reason for it. She is very
fond of your father, and she has not seen him fora
dozen years ; and there is no telling whether
she may ever see him again ; and she thinks it
is my fault. So you must not take up arms on
my behalf till you know better. And it would
be so much to your advantage if she should
take a fancy to you, my dear. Do you think I
could ever reconcile myself, for any amour-propre
of mine, to stand in my child's way ? "

Once more, Frances was unable to make any

reply. All the lines of sentiment and sense to
which she had been accustomed seemed to begetting
blurred out. "Where she had come from,
a family stood together, shoulder by shoulder.
They defended each other, and even revenged
each other ; and though the law might disapprove,
public opinion stood by them. A child
who looked on careless while its parents were
assailed would have been to Mariuccia an odious
monster. Her father's opinions on such a subject,
Frances had never known : but as for fortune,
he would have smiled that disdainful smile
of his at the suggestion that she should pay
court to any one because he was rich. Wealth
meant having few wants, she had heard him say
a thousand times. It might even have been
supposed from his conversation that he scorned
rich people for being rich, which of course was
an exaggeration. But he could never, never
have wished her to endeavour to please an unkind,
disagreeable person because of her money.
That was impossible. So that she made no
reply, and scarcely even, in her confusion,
responded to the caress with which her mother
thanked her for the partisanship, which it appeared
was so out of place.

Chapter XXIV.

Frances had not succeeded in resolving this
question in her mind when Thursday came.
The two intervening days had been very
quiet. She had gone with her mother to
several shops, and had stood by almost passive
and much astonished while a multitude of little
luxuries which she had never been sufficiently
enlightened even to wish for, were bought for
her. She was so little accustomed to lavish
expenditure, that it was almost with a sense
of wrong-doing that she contemplated all these
costly trifles, which were for the use not of some
typical line lady, but of herself, Frances, who
had never thought it possible she could ever be
classed under that title. To Lady Markham
these delicacies were evidently necessaries of
life. And then it was for the first time that

Frances learned what an evening dress meant
not only the garment itself, but the shoes,
the stockings, the gloves, the ribbons, the fana
hundred little accessories which she had
never so much as thought of When you
have nothing but a set of coral or amber
beads to wear with your white frock, it is
astonishing how much that matter is simplified.
Lady Markham opened her jewel-boxes to provide
for the same endless roll of necessities.
This will go with the white dress, and this
with the pink," she said, thus revealing to
Frances another delicacy of accord unsuspected
by her simplicity.

But, mamma, you are giving me so many
things ! "

"Not your share yet," said Lady Markham.
And she added : " But don't say anything of
this to your aunt Clarendon. She will probably
give you something out of her hoards,
if she thinks you are not provided."

This speech checked the pleasure and gratitude
of Frances. She stopped with a little
gasp in her eager thanks. She wanted nothing
from her aunt Clarendon, she said to herself

with indignation, nor from her mother either.
If they would but let her keep her ignorance,
her pleasure in any simple gift, and not represent
her, even to herself, as a little schemer,
trying how much she could get ! Frances cried
rather than smiled over her turquoises and
the set of old gold ornaments, which but for
that little speech would have made her happy.
The suggestion put gall into everything, and
made the timid question in her mind as to
Lady Markham's generous forbearance with
her sister-in-law more difficult than ever.
Why did she bear it ? She ought not to
have borne it  not for a day.

On the Wednesday evening before the visit
to Portland Place, to which she looked with so
much alarm, two gentlemen came to dinner at
the invitation of Markham. The idea of two
gentlemen to dinner produced no exciting effect
upon Frances so as to withdraw her mind from
the trial that was coming. Gentlemen were
the only portion of the creation with which
she was more or less acquainted. Even in
the old Palazzo, a guest of this description
had been occasionally received, and had sat

discussing some point of antiquarian lore, or
something about the old books at Colla, with
her father without taking any notice, beyond
what civility demanded, of the little girl who
sat at the head of the table. She did not
doubt it would be the same thing to-night ;
and though Markham was always 7iice, never
leaving her out, never letting the conversation
drop altogether into that stream of personality
or allusion which makes Society so intolerable
to a stranger, she yet prepared for the evening
with the feeling that dulness awaited her, and
not pleasure. One of the guests, however, was
of a kind which Frances did not expect. He
was young, very young in appearance, rather
small and delicate, but at the same time refined,
with a look of gentle melancholy upon a
countenance which was almost beautiful, with
child-like limpid eyes, and features of extreme
delicacy and purity. This was something quite
unlike the elderly antiquarians who talked so
glibly to her father about Eoman remains or
Etruscan art. He sat between Lady Markham
and herself, and spoke in gentle tones, with a
soft affectionate manner, to her mother, who

replied with the kindness and easy affectionately
which were habitual to her. To see the
sweet looks which this young gentleman received,
and to hear the tender questions about
his health and his occupations which Lady
Markham put to him, awoke in the mind of
Frances another doubt of the same character as
those others from which she had not been able
to get free. Was this sympathetic tone, this air
of tender interest, put on at will for the benefit
of everybody with whom Lady Markham spoke ?
Frances hated herself for the instinctive question
which rose in her, and for the suspicions
which crept into her mind on every side
and undermined all her pleasure. The other
stranger opposite to her was old  to her
youthful eyes  and called forth no interest
at all. But the gentleness and melancholy,
the low voice, the delicate features, something
plaintive and appealing about the youth by
her side, attracted her interest in spite of
herself. He said little to her, but from time
to time she caught him looking at her with
a sort of questioning glance. When the ladies
left the table, and Frances and her mother

were alone in the drawing-room, Lady Markham,
who had said nothing for some minutes,
suddenly turned and asked: "What did you
think of him, Frances ? " as if it were the
most natural question in the world.

"Of whom?" said Frances in her astonishment.


Of Claude, my dear. Whom else ? Sir
Thomas could be of no particular interest
either to you or me."

I did not know their names, mamma ; I
scarcely heard them. Claude is the young
gentleman who sat next to you ? "

"And to you also, Frances. But not only
that. He is the man of whom, I suppose,
Constance has told you  to avoid whom she
left home, and ran away from me. Oh, the
words come quite appropriate, though I could
not bear them from the mouth of Caroline Clarendon.
She abandoned me, and threw herself
upon your father's protection, because of "

Frances had listened with a sort of consternation.
When her mother paused for
breath, she filled up the interval : " That
little, gentle, small, young man ! "

Lady Markham looked for a moment as if
she would be angry ; then she took the better
way, and laughed. "He is little and young,"
she said; "but neither so young nor even so
small as you think. He is most wonderfully,
portentously rich, my dear ; and he is very
nice and good and intelligent and generous.
You must not take up a prejudice against
him because he is not an athlete or a giant.
There are plenty of athletes in Society, my
love, but very, very few with a hundred
thousand a-year."

"It is so strange to me to hear about
money," said Frances. " I hope you will
pardon me, mamma. I don't understand. I
thought he was perhaps some one who was
delicate, whose mother, perhaps, you knew,
whom you wanted to be kind to."

Quite true," said Lady Markham, patting
her daughter's cheek with a soft finger ; " and
well judged : but something more besides. I
thought, I allow, that it would be an excellent
match for Constance ; not only because he was
rich, but also because he was rich. Do you seethe
difference ? "

I  suppose so," Frances said ; but there
was not any warmth in the admission. " I
thought the right way," she added after a
moment, with a blush that stole over her
from head to foot, "was that people fell in
love with each other."

So it is," said her mother, smiling upon
her. " But it often happens, you know, that
they fall in love respectively with the wrong
people."

"It is dreadful to me to talk to you, who
know so much better," cried Frances. " All
that / know is from stories. But I thought
that even a wrong person, whom you chose
yourself, was better than "

'' The right person chosen by your mother ?
These are awful doctrines, Frances. You area
little revolutionary. Who taught you such
terrible things ? " Lady Markham laughed as
she spoke, and patted the girl's cheek more
affectionately than ever, and looked at her
with unclouded smiles, so that Frances took
courage. " But," the mother went on, " there
was no question of choice on my part. Constance
has known Claude Ramsay all her life.

She liked him, so far as I knew. I supposed
she had accepted him. It was not formally
announced, I am happy to say ; but I made
sure of it, and so did everybody else  including
himself, poor fellow  when, suddenly, without
any warning, your sister disappeared. It was
unkind to me, Frances,  oh, it was unkind
to me!"

And suddenly, while she was speaking, two
tears appeared all at once in Lady Markham's
eyes.

Frances was deeply touched by this sight.
She ventured upon a caress, which as yet,
except in timid return, to those bestowed
upon her, she had not been bold enough todo.
'I do not think Constance can have
meant to be unkind," she said.

Few people mean to be unkind," said this
social philosopher, who knew so much more
than Frances. "Your aunt Clarendon does,
and that makes her harmless, because one
understands. Most of those who wound one,
do it because it pleases themselves, without
meaning anything  or caring anything  don't
you see ?  whether it hurts or not."

This was too profound a saying to be understood
at the first moment, and Frances had no
reply to make to it. She said only by way of
apology, " But Markham approved ? "

"My love," said her mother, "Markham is
an excellent son to me. He rarely wounds me
himself  which is perhaps because he rarely
does anything particular himself  but he is
not always a safe guide. It makes me very
happy to see that you take to him, though
you must have heard many things against him ;
but he is not a safe guide. Hush ! here are
the men coming up-stairs. If Claude talks to
you, be as gentle with him as you can  and
sympathetic, if you can," she said quickly,
rising from her chair, and moving in her
noiseless easy way to the other side. Frances
felt as if there was a meaning even in this
movement, which left herself alone with a
vacant seat beside her ; but she was confused
as usual by all the novelty, and did not understand
what the meaning was.

It was balked, however, if it had anything
to do with Mr Kamsay, for it was the other
gentleman  the old gentleman, as Frances

called him in her thoughts  who came up and
took the vacant place. The old gentleman was
a man about forty-five, with a few grey hairs
among the brown, and a well-knit manly figure,
which showed very well between the delicate
youth on the one hand and Markham's insignificance
on the other. He was Sir Thomas,
whom Lady Markham had declared to be of
no particular interest to any one ; but he
evidently had sense enough to see the charm
of simplicity and youth. The attention of
Frances was sadly distracted by the movements
of Claude, who fidgeted about from
one table to another, looking at the books
and the nick-nacks upon them, and staring at
the pictures on the walls, then finally came
and stood by Markham's side in front of the
fire. He did well to contrast himself with
Markham. He was taller, and the beauty of
his countenance showed still more strikingly
in contrast with Markham's odd little wrinkled
face. Frances was distracted by the look which
he kept fixed upon herself, and which diverted
her attention in spite of herself away from the
talk of Sir Thomas, who was, however, very
VOL. II. K .

nice, and, she felt sure, most interesting and
instructive, as became this advanced age, if
only lie could attend to what he was saying.
But what with the lively talk which her mother
carried on with Markham, and to which she
could not help listening all through the conversation
of Sir Thomas, and the movements
and glances of the melancholy young lover,
she could not fix her mind upon the remarks
that were addressed to her own ear. When
Claude began to join languidly in the other
talk, it was more difficult still. "You have
got a new picture, Lady Markham," she heard
him say; and a sudden quickening of her
attention and another wave of colour and heat
passing over her, arrested even Sir Thomas in
the much more interesting observation which
presumably he was about to make. He paused,
as if he, too, waited to hear Lady Markham's
reply.

Shall we call it a picture ? It is my little
Qjirl's sketch from her window where she has
been living  her present to her mother; and
I think it is delightful, though in the circumstances
I don't pretend to be a judge."

Where she has been living ! Frances grew
redder and hotter in the flush of indignation
that went over her. But she could not stand
up and proclaim that it was from her home,
her dear loggia, the place she loved best in
the world, that the sketch was made. Already
the bonds of another life where upon her, and
she dared not do that. And then there was a
little chorus of praise, which silenced her still
more effectually. It was the group of palms
which she had been so simply proud of, which
as she had never forgotten  had made her
father say that she had grown up. Lady
Markham had placed it on a small easel on
her table ; but Frances could not help feeling
that this was less for any pleasure it gave
her mother, than in order to make a little
exhibition of her own powers. It was, to be
sure, in her own honour that this was done 
and what so natural as that the mother should
seek to do her daughter honour ? but Frances
was deeply sensitive, and painfully conscious
of the strange tangled web of motives, which
she had never in her life known anything
about before. Had the little picture been

hung in her mother's bedroom, and seen by
no eyes but her own, the girl would have
found the most perfect pleasure in it ; but
here, exhibited as in a public gallery, examined
by admiring eyes, calling forth all
the incense of praise, it was with a mixture
of shame and resentment that Frances found
it out. It produced this result, however, that
Sir Thomas rose, as in duty bound, to examine
the performance of the daughter of the house ;
and presently young Ramsay, who had been
watching his opportunity, took the place by
her side.

I have been waiting for this," he said, with
his air of pathos. " I have so many things to
ask you, if you will let me. Miss Waring."

Surely," Frances said.

Your sketch is very sweet  it is full of
feeling  there is no colour like that of the
Riviera. It is the Riviera, is it not ? "

'' Oh yes," cried Frances, eager to seize the
opportunity of making it apparent that it was
not only where she had been living, as her
mother said. "It is from Bordighera, from
our loggia, where I have lived all my life."

"You will find no colour and no vegetation
like that near London," the young man said.

To this Frances replied politely that London
was full of much more wonderful things, as
she had always heard ; but felt somewhat
disappointed, supposing that his communications
to her were to be more interesting than
this.

"And the climate is so very different," he
continued. " I am very often sent out of
England for the winter, though this year they
have let me stay. I have been at Nice two
seasons. I suppose you know Nice ? It is
a very pretty place ; but the wind is just as
cold sometimes as at home. You have to
keep in the sun ; and if you always keep in
the sun, it is warm even here."

But there is not always sun here," said
Frances.

"That is very true; that is a very clever
remark. There is not always sun here. San
Nemo was beginning to be known dien I was
there ; but I never heard of Bordighera as a
place where people went to stay. Some Italian
wrote a book about it, I have heard  to push

it, no doubt. Could you recommend it as a
winter-place, Miss Waring? I suppose it is
very dull, nothing going on ? "

Oh, nothing at all," cried Frances eagerly.
All the tourists complain that there is nothing
to do."

I thought so," he said ; ''a regular little
Italian dead-alive place." Then he added after
a moment's pause : " But of course there are
inducements which might make one put up
with that, if the air happened to suit one.
Are there villas to be had, can you tell me ?
They say, as a matter of fact, that you get
more advantage of the air when you are in a
dull place."

"There are hotels," said Frances more and
more disappointed, though the beginning of
this speech had given her a little hope.

Good hotels ? " he said with interest.
Sometimes they are really better than a
place of one's own, where the drainage is
often bad, and the exposure not all that
could be desired. And then you get any
amusement that may be going. Perhaps you
will tell me the names of one or two? for if

this east wind continues, my doctors may
send me off even now."

Frances looked into his limpid eyes and expressive
countenance with dismay. He must
look, she felt sure, as if he were making the
most touching confidences to her. His soft
pathetic voice gave a faux air of something
sentimental to those questions, which even she
could not persuade herself meant nothing. "Was
it to show that he was bent upon following
Constance wherever she might go ? That must
be the true meaning, she supposed. He must
be endeavouring by this mock-anxiety to find
out how much she knew of his real motives,
and whether he might trust to her or not.
But Frances resented a little the unnecessary
precaution.

I don't know anything about the hotels,"
she said. " I have never thought of the air.
It is my home  that is all."

"You look so well, that I am the more convinced
it would be a good place for me," said
the young man. "You look in such thorough
good health, if you will allow me to say so.
Some ladies don't like to be told that ; but I

think it the most delightful thing in existence.
Tell me, had you any trouble with drainage,
when you went to settle there ? And is the
water good ? and how long does the season
last? I am afraid I am teasing you with my
questions ; but all these details are so important
 and one is so pleased to hear of a
new place."

We live up in the old town," said Frances
with a sudden flash of malice. " I don't know
what drainage is, and neither does any one else
there. We have our fountain in the court 
our own well. And I don't think there is
any season. We go up among the mountains,
when it gets too hot."

Your well in the court ! " said the sentimental
Claude, with the look of a poet who
has just been told that his dearest friend is
killed by an accident,  " with everything percolating
into it 1 That is terrible indeed.
But," he said, after a pause, an ethereal sense
of consolation stealing over his fine features
"there are exceptions, they say, to every
rule ; and sometimes, with fine health such
as you have, bad sanitary conditions do not

seem to tell  when there has been no stirring.
I believe that is at the root of the whole
question People can go on, on the old system,
so long as there is no stirring-up ; but when
once a beginning has been made, it must be
complete, or it is fatal."

He said this with animation much greater
than he had shown as yet ; then dropping into
his habitual pathos : " If I come in for tea tomorrow
 Lady Markham allows me to do it,
when I can, when the weather is fit for going
out  will you be so very kind as to give me
half an hour. Miss Waring, for a few particulars
? I will take them down from sour lips
it is so much the most satisfactory way ;
and perhaps you would add to your kindness
by just thinking it over beforehand  if there
is anything I ought to know."

But I am going out to - morrow, Mr
Ramsay."

Then after tomorrow," he said ; and rising
with a bow full of tender deference, went upto
Lady Markham to bid her good-night. " I
have been having a most interesting conversation
with Miss Waring. She has given me

SO many rGnseigiieinents,'' he said. "She permits
me to come after tomorrow for further
particulars. Dear Lady Markham, good-night
and a revoir.'

What was Claude saying to you, Frances ? "
Lady Markham asked with a little anxiety,
when everybody save Markham was gone, and
they were alone.

"He asked me about Bordighera, mamma."
Poor dear boy ! About Con, and what she
had said of him ? He has a faithful heart,
though people think him a little too much taken
up with himself."

He did not say anything about Constance.
He asked about the climate and the drains 
what are drains ?  and if the water was good,
and what hotel I could recommend."

Lady Markham laughed and coloured slightly,
and tapped Frances on the cheek. " You area

little satirical ! Dear Claude ! he is very

anxious about his health. But don't you see,"
she added, " that was all a covert way of finding
out about Con ? He wants to go after her ; but
he does not want to let everybody in the world
see that he has gone after a girl who would not

have him. I have a great deal of sympathy
with him, for my part."

Frances had no sympathy with him. She felt,
on the other hand, more sympathy for Constance
than had moved her yet. To escape
from such a lover, Frances thought a mrl mio;ht
be justified in flying to the end of the world.
But it never entered into her mind that any
like danger to herself was to be thought of.
She dismissed Claude Ramsay from her thoughts
with half resentment, half amusement, wondering
that Constance had not told her more ; but
feeling, as no such image had ever risen on her
horizon before, that she would not have believed
Constance. However, her sister had happily
escaped, and to herself, Claude Ramsay was
nothing. Far more important was it to think
of the ordeal of tomorrow. She shivered a
little even in her warm room as she anticipated
it. England seemed to be colder, greyer, more
devoid of brightness in Portland Place than in
Eaton Square.

CHAPTER Xxi.

Frances went to Portland Place next day. She
went with great reluctance, feeling that to be
thus plunged into the atmosphere of the other
side was intolerable. Had she been able to feel
that there was absolute right on either side, it
would not have been so difficult for her. But
she knew so little of the facts of the case, and
her natural prepossessions were so curiously
double and variable, that every encounter was
painful. To be swept into the faction of the
other side, when the first impassioned sentiment
with which she had felt her mother's
arms around her had begun to sink inevitably
into that silent judgment of another individual's
ways and utterances which is the hindrance of
reason to every enthusiasm  was doubly hard.
She was resolute indeed that not a word or

insinuation against her mother should be permitted
in her presence. But she herself had
a hundred little doubts and questions in her
mind, traitors whose very existence no one
must suspect but herself. Her natural revulsion
from the thought of being forced into
partisanship gave her a feeling of strong opposition
and resistance against everything that
might be said to her, when she stepped into the
solemn house in Portland Place, where everything
was so large, empty, and still, so different
from her mother's warm and cheerful abode.
The manner in which her aunt met her strengthened
this feeling. On their previous meeting,
in Lady Markham's presence, the greeting
given her by Mrs Clarendon had chilled her
through and through. She was ushered in
now to the same still room, with its unused
look, with all the chairs in their right places,
and no litter of habitation about ; but her
aunt came to her with a different aspect from
that which she had borne before. She came
quickly, almost with a rush, and took the
shrinking girl into her arms. " My dear
little Frances, my dear child, my brother's

own little girl ! " she cried, kissing her again
and again. Her ascetic countenance was transfigured,
her grey eyes warmed and shone.

Frances could not make any eager response
to this warmth. She did her best to look the
gratification which she knew she ought to have
felt, and to return her aunt's caresses with due
fervour ; but in her heart there was a chill
of which she felt ashamed, and a sense of insincerity
which was very foreign to her nature.
All through these strange experiences, Frances
felt herself insincere. She had not known how
to respond even to her mother, and a cold sense
that she was among strangers had crept in even
in the midst of the bewildering certainty that
she was with her nearest relations and in her
mother's house. In present circumstances,
How . do you do, aunt Caroline ? " was the
only commonplace phrase she could find to
say, in answer to the effusion of affection with
which she was received.

'Now we can talk," said Mrs Clarendon,
leading her with both hands in hers to a sofa
near the fire. " While my lady was here it
was impossible. You must have thought me

cold, when my heart was just running over
to my dear brother's favourite child. But I
could not open my heart before her,  I never
could do it. And there is so much to ask you.
For though I would not let her know T had
never heard, you know very well, my dear, I
can't deceive you. Frances, why doesn't he
write ? Surely, surely, he must have known
I would never betray him  to her, or any of
her race."

Aunt Caroline, please remember you are
speaking of "

"Oh, I can't stand on ceremony with you!
I can't do it. Constance, that had been always
with her, that was another thing. But you,
my dear, dear child ! And you must not stand
on ceremony with me. I can understand you,
if no one else can. And as for expecting you
to love her and honour her and so forth, a
woman whom you have never seen before, who
has spoiled your dear father's life "

Frances had put up her hand to stay this
flood, but in vain. With eyes that flashed with
excitement, the quiet still grey woman was
strangely transformed. A vivacious and animated

person, when moved by passion, is not
so alarming as a reserved and silent one. There
was a force of fury and hatred in her tone
and looks which appalled the girl. She interrupted
almost rudely, insisting upon being
heard, as soon as Mrs Clarendon paused for
breath.

"You must not speak to me so; you must
not  you shall not ! I will not hear it."

Frances was quiet too, and there was in her
also the vehemence of a tranquil nature transported
beyond all ordinary bounds.

Mrs Clarendon stopped and looked at her
fixedly, then suddenly changed her tone.
"Your father might have written to me,"
she said  "he might have written to me.
He is my only brother, and I am all that
remains of the family, now that Minnie, poor
Minnie, who was so much mixed up with it
all, is gone. It was natural enough that he
should go away. I always understood him, if
nobody else did ; but he might have trusted
his own family, who would never, never have
betrayed him. And to think that I should owe
my knowledge of him now to that ill-grown,

ill-conditioned Frances, it was a bitter

pill ! To owe my knowledge of my brother
and of you and everything about you to Markham
 I shall never be able to forget how bitter
it was."

"You forget that Markham is my brother,
aunt Caroline."

He is nothing of the sort. He is your half-brother,
if you care to keep up the connection
at all. But some people don't think much of
it. It is the father's side that counts. But
don't let us argue about that. Tell me how
is your father ? Tell me all about him. I love
you dearly, for his sake ; but above everything,
I want to hear about him. I never had any
other brother. How is he, Frances ? To think
that I should never have seen or heard of him
for twelve long years I "

"My father is  very well," said Frances,
with a sort of strangulation both in heart and
voice, not knowing what to say.

"every well!' Oh, that is not much to
satisfy me with, after so long ! Where is he
and how is he living  and have you been
a very good child to him, Frances? He

VOL. II. L

deserves a good child, for he was a good son.
Oh, tell me a little about him. Did he tell
you everything about us ? Did he say how
fond and how proud we were of him? and
how happy we used to be at home all together ?
He must have told you. If you knew how
I go back to those old days ! We were such
a happy united family. Life is always disappointing.
It does not bring you what you
think, and it is not everybody that has the
comfort we have in looking back upon their
youth. He must have told you of our happy
life at home''

Frances had kept the secret of her father's
silence from every one who had a right to blame
him for it. But here she felt herself to be
bound by no such precaution. His sister was
on his side. It was in his defence and in
passionate partisanship for him that she had
assailed the mother to the child. Frances had
even a momentary angry pleasure in telling the
truth without mitigation or softening. " I don't
know whether you will believe me," she said,
but my father told me nothing. He never
said a word to me about his past life or any one

connected with him ; neither you nor  anyone."
Though she had the kindest heart in
the world, and never had harmed a living
creature, it gave Frances almost a little pang
of pleasure to deliver this blow.

Mrs Clarendon received it, so to speak, full
in the face, as she leaned forward, eagerly waiting
for what Frances had to say. She looked
at the girl aghast, the colour changing in her
face, a sudden exclamation dying away in her
throat. But after the first keen sensation, she
drew herself together and regained her self-control.
*eyes, yes," she cried; "I understand.
He could not enter into anything about us
without telling you of  others. He was always
full of good feeling  and so just ! No doubt,
he thought if you heard our side, you should
hear the other. But when you were coming
away  when he knew you must hear everything,
what message did he give you for
mein

sight of the anxiety which shone in her
aunt's eyes, and the eager bend towards her
of the rigid straight figure not used to any
yielding, Frances began to feel as if she were

the culprit. " Indeed," she said, hesitating,
"he never said anything. I came here in
ignorance. I never knew I had a mother till
Constance came  nor any relations. I heard
of my aunt for the first time from  mamma ;
and then to conceal my ignorance, I asked
Markham ; I wanted no one to know."

It was some minutes before Mrs Clarendon
spoke. Her eyes slowly filled with tears, as
she kept them fixed upon Frances. The blow
went very deep ; it struck at illusions which
were perhaps more dear than anything in her
actual existence. " You heard of me for the

first time from Oh, that was cruel, that

was cruel of Edward," she cried, clasping her
hands together  "of me for the first time 
and you had to ask Markham ! And I, that
was his favourite sister, and that never forgot
him, never for a day ! "

Frances put her own soft young hands upon
those which her aunt wrung convulsively together
in the face of this sudden pang. "I
think he had tried to forget his old life altogether,"
she said ; "or perhaps it was because
he thought so much of it that he could not tell

me  I was so ignorant I He would have been
obliged to tell me so much, if he had told me
anything. Aunt Caroline, I don't think he
meant to be unkind."

Mrs Clarendon shook her head ; then she
turned upon her comforter with a sort of indignation.
"And you," she said, "did you never
want to know ? Did you never wonder how it
was that he was there, vegetating in a little
foreign place, a man of his gifts? Did you
never ask whom you belonged to, what friends
you had at home ? I am afraid," she cried
suddenly, rising to her feet, throwing off the
girl's hand, which had still held hers, " that
you are like your mother in your heart as well
as your face  a self-contained, self-satisfying
creature. You cannot have been such a child
to him as he had a right to, or you would have
known all  all there was to know."

She went to the fire as she spoke and took up
the poker and struck the smouldering coals into
a blaze with agitated vehemence, shivering nervously,
with excitement rather than cold. " Of
course that is how it is," she said. " You must
have been thinking of your own little affairs.

and not of his. He must have thought he
would have his child to confide in and rely
upon  and then have found out that she was
not of his nature at all, nor thinking of him ;
and then he would shut his heart close  oh, I
know him so well ! that is so like Edward 
and say nothing, nothing ! That was always
easier to him than saying a little. It was
everything or nothing with him always. And
when he found you took no interest, he would
shut himself up. But there's Constance," she
cried after a pause  "Constance is like our
side. He will be able to pour out his heart,
poor Edward, to her ; and she will understand
him. There is some comfort in that, at least."

If Frances had felt a momentary pleasure in
giving pain, it was now repaid to her doubly.
She sat where her aunt had left her, following
with a quiver of consciousness everything she
said. Ah, yes ; she had been full of her own
little affairs. She had thought of the masons
but not of any spiritual needs to which
she could minister. She had not felt any
wonder that a man of his gifts should live at
Bordighera, or any vehemence of curiosity as

to the family she belonged to, or what his
antecedents were. She had taken it all quite
calmly, accepting as the course of nature the
absence of relations and references to home.
She had known nothing else, and she had not
thought of anything else. Was it her fault all
through ? Had she been a disappointment to
her father, not worthy of him or his confidence
? The tears gathered slowly in her eyes.
And when Mrs Clarendon suddenly introduced
the name of Constance, Frances, too, sprang
to her feet with a sense of the intolerable,
which she could not master. To be told that
she had failed, might be bearable ; but that
Constance  Constance!  should turn out to
possess all that she wanted, to gain the confidence
she had not been able to gain, that was
more than flesh and blood could bear. She
sprang up hastily, and began with trembling
hands to button up to her throat the close-fitting
outdoor jacket which she had undone.
Mrs Clarendon stood, her face lit up with the
ruddy blaze of the fire, shooting out sharp
arrows of words, with her back turned to her
young victim ; while Frances behind her, in

as great agitation, prepared to bring the conference
and controversy to a close.

If that is what you think," she said, her
voice tremulous with agitation and pain, pulling
on her gloves with feverish haste, " perhaps
it will be better for me to go away."

Mrs Clarendon turned round upon her with
a start of astonishment. Through the semi-darkness
of that London slay, which was not
much more than twilight through the white
curtains, the elder woman looked round upon the
girl, quivering with indignation and resentment,
to whom she had supposed herself entitled to
say what she pleased without fear of calling
forth any response of indignation. When she
saw the tremor in the little figure standing
against the light, the agitated movement of
the hands, she was suddenly brought back to
herself It flashed across her at once that the
sudden withdrawal of Frances, whom she had
welcomed so warmly as her brother's favourite
child, would be a triumph for Lady Markham,
abbacy no doubt very triumphant in the
unveiling of her husband's hiding-place and
the recovery of the child, and in the fact that

Frances resembled herself, and not the father.
To let that enemy understand that she, Waring's
sister, could not secure the affection of
Waring's child, was something which Mrs
Clarendon could not face.

Go  where ? " she said. " You forget that
you have come to spend the day with me. My
lady will not expect you till the evening ; and
I do not suppose you can wish to expose your
father's sister to her remarks."

"My mother," said Frances with an almost
sob of emotion, '' must be more to me than my
father's sister. Oh, aunt Caroline," she cried,
"you have been very, very hard upon me.
I lived as a child lives at home till Constance
came. I had never known anything else.
Why should I have asked questions ? I did
not know I had a mother. I thought it was
cruel, when I first heard ; and now you say it
was my fault."

It must have been more or less your fault.
A girl has no right to be so simple. You ought
to have inquired ; you ought to have given him
no rest ; you ought "

I will tell you," said Frances, " what I was

brought up to do : not to trouble papa ; that
Tas all I knew from the time I was a baby. I
don't know who taught me  perhaps Mariuccia,
perhaps, only  everything. I was not to trouble
him, whatever I did. I was never to cry, nor
even to laugh too loud, nor to make a noise, nor
to ask questions. Mariuccia and Domenico and
every one had only this thought  not to disturb
papa. He was always very kind," she went on,
softening, her eyes filling again. " Sometimes
he would be displeased about the dinner, or if
his papers were disturbed. I dusted them
myself, and was very careful ; but sometimes
that put him out. But he was very kind. He
always came to the loggia in the evening,
except when he was busy. He used to tell me
when my perspective was wrong, and laugh at
me, but not to hurt. I think you are mistaken,
aunt Caroline, about papa."

Mrs Clarendon had come a little nearer, and
turned her face towards the girl, who stood
thus pleading her own cause. Neither of them
was quick enough in intelligence to see distinctly
the difference of the two pictures which
they set before each other  the sister displaying

her ideal of a delicate soul wounded and shrinking
from the world, finding refuge in the
tenderness of his child; the daughter making
her simple representation of the father she
knew, a man not at all dependent on her
tenderness, concerned about the material circumstances
of life, about his dinner, and that
his papers should not be disturbed  kind,
indeed, but in the easy, indifferent way of a
father who is scarcely aware that his little girl
is blooming into a woman. They were not clever
enough to perceive this ; and yet they felt the
difference with a vague sense that both views,
yet neither, were quite true, and that there
might be more to say on either side. Frances
got choked with tears as she went on, which
perhaps was the thing above all others which
melted her aunt's heart. Mrs Clarendon gave
the girl credit for a passionate regret and longing
for the father she loved ; whereas Frances
in reality was thinking, not so much of her
father, as of the serene childish life which was
over for ever, which never could come back
again, with all its sacred ignorances, its simple
unities, the absence of all complication or perplexity.

Already she was so much older, and
had acquired so niuch confusing painful knowledge
 that knowledge of good and evil, and
sense of another meaning lurking behind the
simplest seeming fact and utterance, which,
when once it has entered into the mind, is so
hard to drive out again.

"Perhaps it was not your fault," said Mrs
Clarendon at last. "Perhaps he had been soused
to you as a child, that he did not remember
you were grown up. We will say no more
about it, Frances. We may be sure he had his
reasons. And you say he was busy sometimes.
Was he writing ? What was he doing ? You
don't know what hopes we used to have, and
the great things we thought he was going todo.
He was so clever ; at school and at college,
there was nobody like him. We were so proud
of him ! He might have been Lord Chancellor.
Charles even says so, and he is not partial,
like me ; he might have been anything, if he
had but tried. But all the spirit was taken out
of him when he married. Oh, many a man has
been the same. Women have a great deal to
answer for. I am not saying anything about

your mother. You are quite right when you
say that is not a subject to be discussed with
you. Come down-stairs; luncheon is ready ;
and after that we will go out. We must not
quarrel, Frances. We are each other's nearest
relations, when all is said."

I don't want to quarrel, aunt Caroline. Oh
no ; I never quarrelled with any one. And
then you remind me of papa."

"That is the nicest thing you have said.
You can come to me, my dear, whenever you
want to talk about him, to ease your heart.
You can't do that with your mother ; but you
will never tire me. You may tell me about
him from morning to night, and I shall never
be tired. Mariuccia and Domenico are the
servants, I suppose ? and they adore him ? He
was always adored by the servants. He never
gave any trouble, never spoke crossly. Oh,
how thankful I am to be able to speak of him
quite freely ! I was his favourite sister. He
was just the same in outward manner to us
both,  he would not let Minnie see he had any
preference ; but he liked me the best, all the
same."

It was very grateful to Frances that this
monologue should go on : it spared her the
necessity of answering many questions which
would have been very difficult to her ; for she
was not prepared to say that the servants,
though faithful, adored her father, or that he
never gave any trouble. Her recollection of
him was that he gave a great deal of trouble,
and was " very particular." But Mrs Clarendon
had a happy way of giving herself the information
she wanted, and evidently preferred to tell
Frances a thousand things, instead of being told
by her. And in other ways she was very kind,
insisting that Frances should eat at lunch, that
she should be wrapped up well when they went
out in the victoria, that she should say whether
there was any shopping she wanted to do. "I
know my lady will look after your finery," she
said,  " that will be for her own credit, and help
to get you off the sooner ; but I hope you have
plenty of nice underclothing and wraps. She
is not so sure to think of these."

Frances, to save herself from this questioning,
described the numberless necessaries which
had been already bestowed upon her, not forgetting

the turquoises and other ornaments,
which, she remembered with a quick sensation
of shame, her mother had told her not to speak
of, lest her aunt's liberalities should be checked.
The result, however, was quite  different. Mrs
Clarendon grew red as she heard of all these
acquisitions, and when they returned to Portland
Place, led Frances to her own room, and opened
to her admiring gaze the safe, securely fixed
into the wall, where her jewels were kept.
' There are not many that can be called family
jewels," she said; "but I've no daughter of my
own, and I should not like it to be said that
you had got nothing from your father's side."
Thus it was a conflict of liberality, not a
withholding of presents because she was already
supplied, which Frances had to fear. She was
compelled to accept with burning cheeks, and
eyes weighed down with shame and reluctance,
ornaments which a few weeks ago would have
seemed to her good enough for a queen. Oh,
what a flutter of pleasure there had been in her
heart when her father gave her the little necklace
of Genoese filigree, which appeared to her
the most beautiful thing in the world. She

slipped into her pocket the cluster of emeralds
her aunt gave her, as if she had been a thief,
and hid the pretty ring which was forced upon
her finger, under her glove. *' Oh, they are
much too fine for me. They are too good for
any girl to wear. I do not want them, indeed,
aunt Caroline ! "

That may be," Mrs Clarendon replied ;
"but I want to give them to you. It shall
never be said that all the good things came
from her, and nothing but trumpery from me."

Frances took home her spoils with a sense of
humiliation which weighed her to the ground.
Before this, however, she had made the acquaintance
of Mr Charles Clarendon, the great Q.C.,
who came into the cold drawing-room two
minutes before dinner in irreproachable evening
costume  a well-mannered, well-looking man of
middle age, or a little more, who shook hands
cordially with Frances, and told her he was very
glad to see her. "But dinner is a little late,
isn't it ? " he said to his wife. The drawing-room
looked less cold by lamplight ; and Mrs
Clarendon herself, in her soft velvet evening-gown
with a good deal of lace  or perhaps it

was after the awakening and excitement of her
quarrel with Frances  had less the air of
being like the furniture, out of use. The dinner
was very luxurious and dainty. Frances, as she
sat between husband and wife, observing both
very closely without being aware of it, decided
within herself that in this particular her aunt
Caroline again reminded her of papa. Mr
Clarendon was very agreeable at dinner. He
gave his wife several pieces of information
indeed which Frances did not understand, butin
general talked about the things that were
going on, the great events of the time, the
news, so much of it as was interesting, with all
the ease of a man of the world. And he asked
Frances a few civil and indeed kindly questions
about herself. "You must take care of our
east winds," he said ; "you will find them very
sharp after the Eiviera."

I am not delicate," she said ; " I don't think
they will hurt me."

No, you are not delicate," he replied, with
what Frances felt to be a look of approval ;
one has only to look at you to see that. But
fine elastic health like yours is a great possession,

VOL. II. M

and you must take care of it." He added with
a smile, a moment after : " We never think that
when we are young; and when we are old,
thinking does little good."

You have not much to complain of, Charles,
in that respect," said his wife, who was always
rather solemn.

'' Oh, nothing at all," was his reply. And
shortly after, dinner by this time being over,
he gave her a significant look, to which she
responded by rising from the table.

"It is time for us to go up-stairs, my dear,"
she said to Frances.

And when the ladies reached the drawing-room,
it had relapsed into its morning aspect,
and looked as chilly and as unused as before.

Your uncle is one of the busiest men in
London," said Mrs Clarendon with a scarcely
perceptible sigh. " He talked of your health ;
but if he had not the finest health in the world,
he could not do it ; he never takes any rest."

"Is he going to work now?" Frances asked
with a certain awe.

He will take a doze for half an hour ; then
he will have his coffee. At ten he will come

up-stairs to bid me good-night ; and then  I
dare not say how long he will sit up after that.
He can do with less sleep than any other man,
I think." She spoke in a tone that was full of
pride, yet with pathos in it too.

In that way, you cannot see very much of
him," Frances said.

I am more pleased that my husband should
be the first lawyer in England, than that he
should sit in the drawing-room with me," she
answered proudly. Then, with a faint sigh :
One has to pay for it," she added.

The girl looked round upon the dim room
with a shiver, which she did her best to conceal.
Was it worth the price, she wondered? the
cold dim house, the silence in it which weighed
down the soul, the half-hour's talk (no more)
round the table, followed by a long lonely
evening. She wondered if they had been in
love with each other when they were young,
and perhaps moved heaven and earth for a
chance hour together, and all to come to this.
And there was her own father and mother,
who probably had loved each other too. As
she drove along to Eaton Square, warmly

wrapped in the rich fur cloak which aunt
Caroline had insisted on adding to her other
gifts, these examples of married life gave hera
curious thrill of thought, as involuntarily
she turned them over in her mind. If the
case of a man were so with his wife, it would
be well not to marry, she said to herself, as
the inquirers did so many years ago.

And then she blushed crimson, with a sensation
of heat which made her throw her cloak
aside, to think that she was going back to her
mother, as if she had been sent out upon a raid,
laden with spoils.

CHAPTER XXVI.

There were voices in the drawing-room as
Frances ran up-stairs, which warned her that
her own appearance in her morning dress would
be undesirable there. She went on with a sense
of relief to her own room, where she threw
aside the heavy cloak, lined with fur, which
her aunt had insisted on wrapping her in. It
was too grave, too ample for Frances, just as
the other presents she had received were too
rich and valuable for her wearing. She took
the emerald brooch out of her pocket in its
little case, and thrust it away into her drawer,
glad to be rid of it, wondering whether it would
be her duty to show it, to exhibit her presents.
She divined that Lady Markham would be
pleased, that she would congratulate her upon
having made herself agreeable to her aunt, and

perhaps repeat that horrible encouragement to
her to make what progress she could in the
affections of the Clarendonss, because they were
rich and had no heirs. If, instead of saying
this, Lady Markham had but said that Mrs
Clarendon was lonely, having no children, and
little good of her husband's society, how different
it might have been. How anxious then
would Frances have been to visit and cheer
her father's sister ! The girl, though she was
very simple, had a great deal of inalienable
good sense ; and she could not but wonder
within herself how her mother could make so
strange a mistake.

It was late before Lady Markham came upstairs.
She came in shading her candle with
her hand, gliding noiselessly to her child's
bedside. "Are you not asleep, Frances? I
thought you would be too tired to keep
awake."

"Oh no. I have done nothing to tire me.
I thought you would not want me down-stairs,
as I was not dressed."

I always want you," said Lady Markham,
stooping to kiss her. "But I quite understand

why you did not come. There was nobody
that could have interested you. Some old
friends of mine, and a man or two whom
Markham brought to dine ; but nothing young
or pleasant. And did you have a tolerable
day ? Was poor Caroline a little less grey
and cold ? But Constance used to tell me she
was only cold when I was there."

I don't think she was cold. She was  very
kind ; at least that is what she meant, I am
sure," said Frances, anxious to do her aunt
justice.

Lady Markham laughed softly, with a sort
of suppressed satisfaction. She was anxious
that Frances should please. She had herself,
at a considerable sacrifice of pride, kept up
friendly relations, or at least a show of friendly
relations, with her husband's sister. But notwithstanding
all this, the tone in which Frances
spoke was balm to her. The cloak was an evidence
that the girl had succeeded ; and yet she
had not joined herself to the other side. This
unexpected triumph gave a softness to Lady
Markham's voice.

"We must remember," she said, "that poor

Caroline is very much alone. When one is
much alone, one's very voice gets rusty, so to
speak. It sounds hoarse in one's throat. You
may think, perhaps, that I have not much experience
of that. Still, I can understand ; and
it takes some time to get it toned into ordinary
smoothness. It is either too expressive, or else
it sounds cold. A great deal of allowance is to
be made for a woman who spends so much of
her life alone."

Oh yes," cried Frances, with a burst of
tender compunction, taking her mother's soft
white dimpled hand in her own, and kissing it
with a fervour which meant penitence as well
as enthusiasm. "It is so good of you to remind
me of that."

Because she has not much good to say of
me ? My dear, there are a great many things
that you don't know, that it would be hard to
explain to you : we must forgive her for that."

And for a moment Lady Markham looked
very grave, turning her face away towards the
vacancy of the dark room with something that
sounded like a sigh. Her daughter had never
loved her so much as at this moment. She

laid her cheek upon her mother's hand, and
felt the full sweetness of that contact enter
into her heart.

"But I am disturbing your beauty-sleep,
my love," she said ; " and I want you to look
your best tomorrow ; there are several people
coming tomorrow. Did she give you that
great cloak, Frances ? How like poor Caroline
! I know the cloak quite well. It is far
too old for you. But that is beautiful sable it
is trimmed with ; it will make you something.
She is fond of giving presents." Lady Markham
was very quick  full of the intelligence
in which Mrs Clarendon failed. She felt the
instinctive loosening of her child's hands from
her own, and that the girl's cheek was lifted
from that tender pillow. " But," she said,
"we'll say no more of that to-night," and
stooped and kissed her, and drew her covering
about her with all the sweetness of that
care which Frances had never received before.
Nevertheless, the involuntary and horrible
feeling that it was clever of her mother to
stop when she did and say no more, struck
chill to the girl's very soul.

Next day Mr Ramsay came in the afternoon,
and immediately addressed himself to Frances.
"I hope you have not forgotten your promise,
Miss Waring, to give me all the renseignements.
I should not like to lose such a good chance."

"I don't think I have any information to
give you  if it is about Bordighera, you mean.
I am fond of it ; but then I have lived there all
my life. Constance thought it dull."

Ah yes, to be sure  your sister went there.
But her health was perfect. I have seen her go
out in the wildest weather, in days that made
me shiver. She said that to see the sun always
shining bored her. She liked a great deal of
excitement and variety  don't you think ? " he
added after a moment, in a tentative way.

The sun does not shine always," said
Frances, piqued for the reputation of her
home, as if this were an accusation. " We
have grey days sometimes, and sometimes
storms, beautiful storms, when the sea is all
in foam."

He shivered a little at the idea. " I have
never yet found the perfect place in which
there is nothing of all that," he said. " Wherever

I have been, there are cold days  even in
Algiers, you know. No climate is perfect. I
don't go in much for society when I am at a
health-place. It disturbs one's thoughts and
one's temper, and keeps you from fixing your
mind upon your cure, which you should
always do. But I suppose you know everybody
there ? "

There is  scarcely any one there," she said,
faltering, remembering at once that her father
was not a person to whom to osier introductions.


So much the better," he said more cheerfully.
"It is a thing I have often heard
doctors say, that society was quite undesirable.
It disturbs one's mind. One can't be so exact
about hours. In short, it places health in a
secondary place, which is fatal. I am always
extremely rigid on that point. Health  must
go before all. Now, dear Miss Waring, to
details, if you please." He took out a little
note-book, bound in russia, and drew forth a
jewelled pencil-case. "The hotels first, I beg;
and then the other particulars can be filled
in. We can put them under different heads :

(1) Shelter; (2) Exposure; (3) Size and convenience
of apartments ; (4) Nearness to church,
beach, &c. I hope you don't think I am asking
too much ? "

I am so glad to see that you have not
given him up because of Con," said one of
Lady Markham's visitors, talking very earnestly
over the tea-table, with a little nod and gesture
to indicate of whom she was speaking. "He
must be very fond of you, to keep coming ; or
he must have some hope."

I think he is rather fond of me, poor
Claude ! " Lady Markham replied without looking;
round. " I am one of the oldest friends
he has."

"But Constance, you know, gave him a
terrible snub. I should not have wondered
if he had never entered the house again."

He enters the house almost every day, and
will continue to do so, I hope. Poor boy, he
cannot afford to throw away his friends."

Then that is almost the only luxury he can't
afford."

Lady Markham smiled upon this remark.
"Claude," she said, turning round, "don't you

want some tea ? Come and get it while it is
hot."

I am getting some renseignements from
Miss Waring. It is very good of her. She
is telling me all about Bordighera, which, sofar
as I can see, will be a very nice place for
the winter," said Ramsay, coming up to the
tea-table with his little note-book in his hand.
Thanks, dear Lady Markham. A little sugar,
please. Sugar is extremely nourishing, and it
is a great pity to leave it out in diet  except,
you know, when you are inclining to fat.
Banting is at the bottom of all this fashion
of doing without sugar. It is not good for
little thin fellows like me."

I gave it up long before I ever heard of
Banting," said the stout lady : for it need
scarcely be said that there was a stout lady ;
no tea-party in England ever assembled without
one. The individual in the present case
was young, and rebellious against the fate
which had overtaken her  not of the soft,
smiling, and contented kind.

It does us real good," said Claude, with his
softly pathetic voice. " T have seen one or two

very sad instances where the fat did not go
away, you know, but got limp and flaccid, and
the last state of that man was worse than the
first. Dear lady, I think you should be very
cautious. To make experiments with one's
health is really criminal. We are getting on
very nicely with the renseignements, Mis
Waring has remembered a great deal. She
thought she could not tell me anything ; but
she has remembered a great deal."

Bordighera ? Is that where Constance is ? "
the ladies said to each other round the low
tea-table where Lady Markham was so busy.
She smiled upon them all, and answered " Yes,"
without any tinge of the embarrassment which
perhaps they hoped to see.

"But of course as a resident she is not living
among the people at the hotels. You know
how the people who live in a place hold themselves
apart ; and the season is almost over.
I don't think that either tourists or invalids
passing that way are likely to see very much
of Con."

In the meantime, Frances, as young Ramsay
had said, had been honestly straining her

mind to " remember " what she could about the
Marina and the circumstances there. She did
not know anything about the east wind, and
had no recollection of how it affected the
place. She remembered that the sun shone
in at the windows all day ; which of course
meant, as he informed her, a southern exposure
; and that in all the hotel gardens, as
well as elsewhere, there were palms growing,
and hedges of lemons and orange trees ; and
that at the Angleterre  or was it the Victoria?
 the housekeeper was English; along
with other details of a similar kind. There
were no balls ; very few concerts or entertainments
of any kind ; no afternoon tea-parties.
"How could there be?" said Frances, "when
there were only ourselves, the Gaunts, and the
Durants."

Only themselves, the Gaunts, and the Du-rants,"
Ramsay wrote down in his little book.
How delightful that must be ! Thank you
so much. Miss Waring. Usually one has to
pay for one's experience ; but thanks to you,
I feel that I know all about it. It seems a
place in which one could do one's self every

justice. I shall speak to Dr Lull about it at
once. I have no doubt he will think it the
very place for me."

You will find it dull," said Frances, looking
at him curiously, wondering was it possible that
he could be sincere, or whether this was his way
of justifying to himself his intention of following
Constance. But nothing could be more steadily
matter-of-fact than the young man's aspect.

"Yes, no doubt I shall find it dull. I don't
so very much object to that. At Cannes and
those places there is a continual racket going
on. One might almost as well be in London.
One is seduced into going out in the evening,
doing all sorts of things. I think your place
is an ideal place  plenty of sunshine and no
amusements. How can I thank you enough.
Miss Waring, for your renseignements f I
shall speak to Dr Lull without delay."

But you must recollect that it will soon begetting
very hot ; and even the people who live
there will be going away. Mr Durant sometimes
takes the duty at Homburg or one of
those places ; and the Gaunts come home to
England ; and even we "

Here Frances paused for a moment to watch
him, and she thought that the pencil with
which he was still writing down all these precious
details, paused too. He looked up at her,
as if waiting for further information. " Yes ? "
he said interrogatively.

Even we  go up among the mountains
where it is cooler," she said.

He looked a little thoughtful at this; but
presently threw her back into perplexity by
saying calmly: "That would not matter tome
so much, since I am quite sincere in thinking
that when one goes to a health-place, one
should give one's self up to one's health. But
unfortunately, or perhaps I should say fortunately.
Miss Waring, England, is just as good
as anywhere else in the summer; and Dr Lull
has not thought it necessary this year to send
me away. But I feel quite set up with your
renseignements" he added, putting back his
book into his pocket, "and I certainly shall
think of it for another year."

Frances had been so singled out for the purpose
of giving the young invalid information,
that she found herself a little apart from the

VOL. II. N

party when lie went away. They were all
ladies, and all intimates, and the "unaccustomed
girl was not prepared for the onslaught
of this curious and eager, though so pretty and
fashionable mob. "What are those resigned
you have been giving him ? Is he going
off after Con ? Has he been questioning you
about Con ? We are all dying to know. And
what do you think she will say to him if he
goes out after her ? " cried all, speaking together,
those soft eager voices, to which
Frances did not know how to reply.

Chapter Xxiii.

Frances became accustomed to the presence of
young Ramsay after this. He appeared almost
every day, very often in the afternoon, eager
for tea, and always disposed to inquire for
further renseignements, though he was quite
certain that he was not to leave England till
autumn at the earliest. She began to regard
him as a younger brother, or cousin at the
least  a perfectly harmless individual, with
whom she could talk when he wanted her with
a gentle complacence, without any reference to
her own pleasure. As a matter of fact, it did
not give her any pleasure to talk to Claude.
She was kind to him for his sake ; but she had
no desire for his presence on her own account.
It surprised her that he ever could have been
thought of as a possible mate for Constance.

Constance was so much cleverer, so much more
advanced in every way than herself, that to
suppose she could put up with what Frances
found so little attractive, was a constant amazement
to the girl. She could not but express
this on one of the occasions, not so very frequent
as she had expected, on which her mother
and she were alone together.

Is it really true," she said at the end
of a long silence, '' that there was a question
of a  marriage between Constance and Mr
Ramsay ? "

"It is really quite true," said her mother
with a smile. " And why not ? Do you disapprove
? "

It is not that I disapprove  I have no right
to disapprove ; it is only that it seems so
impossible."

'' Why ? I see nothing impossible in it. He
is of suitable age ; he is handsome. You cannot
deny that he is handsome, however much
you may dislike him, my dear."

"But I don't dislike him at all; I like him
very much  in a kind of way."

"You have every appearance of doing so,"

said Lady Markham with meaning. " You talk
to him more, I think, than to any one else."

That is because "

Oh, I don't ask any reason, Frances. If you
like his society that is reason enough  the best
of reasons. And evidently he likes you. He
would, no doubt, be more suitable to you than
to Constance."

Mamma ! I don't know what you mean."
Frances woke up suddenly from her musing
state, and looked at her mother with wide open
startled eyes.

'' I don't mean anything. I only ask you to
point out wherein his unsuitability lies. Young,
handsome, nice, and very rich. What could a
girl desire more ? You think, perhaps, as you
have been so simply brought up, that a heroine
like Con should have had a Duke or an Earl
at the least. But people think less of the importance
of titles as they know Society better.
Claude is of an excellent old family  better
than many peers. She would have been a very
fortunate young woman with such an establishment
; but she has taken her own way. I hope
you will never be so hot-headed as your sister,

Frances. You look much more practical and
reasonable. You will not, I think, dart off at
a tangent without warning or thought."

Frances looked her mother doubtfully in the
face. Her feelings fluctuated strangely in respect
to this central figure in the new world round
her. To make acquaintance with your parents
for the first time when you have reached the
critical age, and are no longer able to accept
everything with the matter-of-fact serenity of a
child, is a curious experience. Children, indeed,
are tremendous critics, at the tribunal of whose
judgment we all stand unawares, and have our
just place allotted to us, with an equity which
happily leads to no practical conclusions, but
which no tribunal on earth can equal for clear
sight and remorseless decision. Eighteen is not
quite so abstract as eight; yet the absence of
familiarity, and that love which is instinctive,
and happily quite above all decisions of the
judgment, makes, in such an extraordinary case
as that of Frances, the sudden call upon the
critical faculties, the consciousness that accompanies
their exercise, and the underlying sense,
never absent, that all this is unnatural and

wrong, into a complication full of distress and
uncertainty. A vague question whether it were
possible that such a conflict as that which had
ended in Constance's flight, should ever arise
between Lady Markham and herself, passed
through the mind of Frances. If it should do
so, the expedient which had been open to Constance
would be to herself impossible. All pride
and delicacy of feeling, all sense of natural
justice, would prevent her from adopting that
course. The question would have to be worked
out between her mother and herself, should it
ever occur. Was it possible that it could ever
occur ? She looked at Lady Markham, who had
returned to her usual morning occupation of
writing letters, with a questioning gaze. There
had been a pause, and Lady Markham had
waited for a moment for a reply. Then she
had taken up her pen again, and with a smiling
nod had returned to her correspondence.

Frances sat and pondered with her face
turned towards the writing-table, at which
her mother spent so much of her time. The
number of letters that were written there
every morning filled her with amazement.

Waring had written no letters, and received
only one now and then, which Frances understood
to be about business. She had looked
very respectfully at first on the sheaves which
were every day taken away, duly stamped,
from that well-worn but much decorated
writing-table. "When it had been suggested
to her that she too must have letters to
write, she had dutifully compiled her little
bulletin for her father, putting aside as quite
a different matter the full chronicle of her
proceedings, written at a great many reprises,
to Mariuccia, which somehow did not seem
at all to come under the same description.
It had, however, begun to become apparent
to Frances, unwillingly, as she made acquaintance
with everything about her, that Lady
Markham's correspondence was really by no
means of the importance which appeared at
the first glance. It seemed to consist generally
in the conveyance of little bits of news,
of little engagements, of the echoes of what
people said and did ; and it was replied toby
endless shoals of little notes on every
variety of tinted, gilt, and perfumed paper,

with every kind of monogram, crest, and
device, and every new idea in shape and form
which the genius of the fashionable stationer
could work out. " I have just heard from
Lady So-and-so the funniest story," Lady
Markham would say to her son, repeating the
anecdote  which on many occasions Frances,
listening, did not see the point of. But
then both mother and son were cleverer
people than she was. " I must write and
let Mary St Serve and Louisa Avenel know 
it will amuse them so ; " and there was at once
an addition of two letters to the budget.
Frances did not think  all under her breath,
as it were, in involuntary unexpressed comment
that the tale was worth a pretty sheet of
paper, a pretty envelope  both decorated
with Lady Markham's cipher and coronet 
and a penny stamp. But so it was ; and
this was one of the principal occupations
evidently of" a great lady's life. Lady Markham
considered it very grave, and "a duty."
She allowed nothing to interfere with her
correspondence. '' I have my letters to write,"
she said, as who should say, " I have my day's

work to do." By degrees Frances lost her
respect for this day's work, and would watch
the manufactory of one note after another
with eyes that were unwillingly cynical,
wondering within herself whether it would
make any difference to the world if pen and
ink were forbidden in that house. Markham,
too, spoke of writing his letters as a valid
reason for much consumption of time. But
then, no doubt, Markham had land agents
to write to, and lawyers, and other necessary
people. In this, Frances did not do justice
to her mother, who also had business letters'
to write, and did a great deal in stocks, and
kept her eyes on the money market. The
girl sat and watched her with a sort of fascination
as her pen ran lightly over sheet after
sheet. Sometimes Lady Markham was full
of tenderness and generosity, and had the
look of understanding everybody's feelings.
She was never unkind. She never took a
bad view of any one, or suggested evil or
interested motives, as even Frances perceived,
in her limited experience, so many people
to do. But, on the other hand, there would

come into her face sometimes a look  which
seemed to say that she might be inexorable,
if once she had made up her mind : a look
before which it seemed to Frances that flight
like that of Constance would be the easiest
way. Frances was not sufficiently instructed
in human nature to know that anomalies of
this kind are common enough ; and that nobody
is always and in all matters good, anymore
than anybody is in all things ill. It
troubled her to perceive the junction of these
different qualities in her mother; and still
more it troubled her to think what, in case
of coming to some point of conflict, she should
do ? How would she get out of it ? Would
it be only by succumbing wholly, or had she
the courage in her to fight it out ?

** Little un," said Markham, coming up to her
suddenly, " why do you look at the mother
so ? Are you measuring yourself against her,
to see how things would stand if it came to a

&

fight?"

Markham ! " Frances started with a great
blush of guilt. " I did not know you were
here. I  never heard you come in."

"You were so lost in thought. I have been
here these fi.Ye minutes, waiting for an opportunity
to put in a word. Don't you know
I'm a thought-reader, like those fellows that
find pins ? Take my advice, Fan, and never
let it come to a fight."

I don't know how to fight," she said,
crimsoning more and more; 'rand besides, I
was not thinking  there is nothing to fight
about."

Fibs, these last," he said. " Come out and
take a little walk with me,  you are looking
pale ; and I will tell you a thing or two.
Mother, I am going to take her out for a walk ;
she wants air."

Do, dear," said Lady Markham, turning
half round with a smile. " After luncheon, she
is going out with me ; but in the meantime,
you could not do better  get a little of the
morning into her face, while I finish my letters."
She turned again with a soft smile on her face
to send ofi" that piece of information to Louisa
Avenel and Mary St Serve, closing an envelope
as she spoke, writing the address with such a
preoccupied yet amiable air  a woman who,

but for having so much to do, would have had
no thought or ambition beyond her home.
Markham waited till Frances appeared in the
trim little walking - dress which the mother
had paid her the high compliment of making
no change in. They turned their faces as
usual towards the Park, where already, though
Easter was very near, there was a flutter of
fine company in preparation for the more
serious glories of the Eow, after the season
had fairly set in.

Little Fan, you mustn't fight," were the
first words that Markham said.

She felt her heart begin to beat loud.
*' Markham ! there is nothing to fight about 
oh, nothing. What put fighting in your head ? "

"Never mind. It is my duty to instruct
your youth ; and I think I see troubles brewing.
Don't be so kind to that little beggar
Claude. He is a selfish little beggar, though
he looks so smooth ; and since Constance
won't have him, he will soon begin to think
he may as well have you."

"Markham!" Frances felt herself choking
with horror and shame.

You have got my name quite pat, my dear ;
but that is neither here nor there. Markham
has nothing to do with it, except to put you on
your guard. Don't you know, you little innocent,
what is the first duty of a mother ? Then
I can tell you : to marry her daughters well ;
brilliantly, if possible, but at all events well 
or anyhow to marry them ; or else she is a
failure, and all the birds of her set come round
her and peck her to death."

"I often don't understand your jokes," said
Frances, with a little dignity, "and I suppose
this is a joke."

And you think it is a joke in doubtful
taste? So should I, if I meant it that way,
but I don't. Listen, Fan ; I am much of that
opinion myself."

"That a mother  that a lady ? You

are always saying horrible things."

"It is true, though  if it is best that a
girl should marry  mind you, I only say if
then it is her mother's duty. You can't
look out for yourself  at least I am very glad
you are not of the kind that do, my little
Fan."

markham," said Frances, with a dignity
which seemed to raise her small person a foot
at least, " I have never heard such things
talked about ; and I don't wish to hear anything
more, please. In books," she added,
after a moment's interval, "it is the gentlemen
"

Who look out ? But that is all changed,
my dear. Fellows fall in love  which is quite
different  and generally fall in love with the
wrong person ; but you see I was not supposing
that you were likely to do anything
so wild as that."

''I hope not," cried Frances hurriedly.
However," she added, after another pause,
colouring deeply, but yet looking at him with
a certain courageous air, "if there was any
question about being  married, which of course
there is not  I never heard that there was
any other way."

Brava, Fan 1 Come, now, here is the little
thing's own opinion, which is worth a great
deal. It would not matter, then, who the
man was, so long as that happened, eh ? Let
us know the premises on either side."

'you are a great deal older than I am,
Markham," said Frances.

"Granted, my dear  a great deal. And
what then ? I should be wiser, you mean to
say? But so I am. Fan."

"It was not that I meant. I mean, it is
you who ought  to marry. You are a man.
You are the eldest, the chief one of your
family. I have always read in books "

Markham put up his hand as a shield. He
stopped to laugh, repeating over and over again
that one note of mirth with which it was his
wont to express his feelings. " Brava, Fan ! "
he repeated when he could speak. " You area
little Trojan. This is something like carrying
the war into the enemy's country." He
was so much tickled by the assault, that the
water stood in his eyes. "What a good thing
we are not in the Now, where I should have
been delivered over to the talk of the town.
Frances, my little dear, you are the funniest
of little philosophers."

Where is the fun ? " said Frances gravely.
"And I am not a philosopher, Markham; I
am only  your sister."

At this the little man became serious all
at once, and took her hand and drew it within
his arm. They' were walking up Constitution
Hill, where there are not many spectators.
Yes, my dear," he said, " and as nice
a little sister as a man could desire ; " and
walked on, holding her arm close to him with
an expressive clasp which spoke more than
words. The touch of nature and the little
suggestive proffer of affection and kindred
which was in the girl's words, touched his
heart. He said nothing till they were about
emerging upon the noise and clamour of the
world at the great thoroughfare which they
had to cross. Then " After all," he said,
'yours is a very natural proposition, Fan.
It is I who ought to marry. Many people
would say it is my duty ; and perhaps I
might have been of that opinion once. But
I've a great deal on my conscience, dear.
You think I'm rather a good little man, don't
you ? fond of ladies' society, and of my mother
and little sister, which is such a good feature,
everybody says ? Well, but that's a mistake,
my dear. I don't know that I am at all a

VOL. II.

fit person to be walking about London streets
and into the Park with an innocent little
creature, such as you are, under my arm."

Markham ! " she cried, with a tone which
was half astonished, half indignant, and her
arm thrilled within his  not, perhaps, with
any intention of withdrawing itself; but that
was what he thought.

Wait," he said, " till I have got you safely
across the Corner  there is always a crowd
and then, if you are frightened, and prefer
another chaperon, we'll find one, you may be
sure, before we have gone a dozen steps. Cone
now ; there is a little lull. Be plucky, and
keep your head. Fan."

I want no other chaperon, Markham ; I
like you."

Do you, my dear ? Well, you can't think
what a pleasure that is to me. Fan. You
wouldn't, probably, if you knew me better.
However, you must stick to that opinion as
long as you can. Who, do you think, would
marry me if I were to try? An ugly little
fellow, not very well ofi", with several very
bad tendencies, and  a mother."

A mother, Markliam ! "

"Yes, my clear; to whom he is devoted
who must always be the first to him. That's
a beautiful sentiment, don't you think ? But
wives have a way of not liking it. I could
not force her to call herself the Dowager,
could I, Fan? She is a pretty woman yet.
She is really younger than I am. She would
not like it."

I think you are only making fun of me,
Markham. I don't know what you mean.
What could mamma have to do with it ? If
she so much wanted Constance to marry,
surely she must want you still more, for you
are so much older ; and then "

"There is no want of arguments," he said
with a laugh, shaking his head. " Conviction
is what is wanted. There might have been
times when I should have much relished your
advice ; but nobody would have had me,
fortunately. No ; I must not give up the
mother, my dear. Don't you know I was the
cause of all the mischief  at least of a great part
of the mischief  when your father went away ?
And now, I must make a mess of it aiain,

and put folly into Con's head. The mother is an
angel, Fan, or she would not trust you with me."

It flashed across Frances' memory that Constance
had warned her not to let herself fall
into Markham's hands ; but this only bewildered
the girl in the softening of her heart
to him, and in the general bewilderment into
which she was thus thrown back. " I do not
believe you can be bad," she said earnestly;
"you must be doing yourself injustice."

By this time they were in the Eow in all
the brightness of the crowd, which, if less great
than at a later period, was more friendly.
Markham had begun to pull ofi" his hat to
every third lady he met, to put out his
hand right and left, to distribute nods and
greetings. "AVe'll resume the subject sometime
or other," he said with a smile aside
to Frances, disengaging her arm from his.
The girl felt as if she had suddenly lost her
anchorage, and was thrown adrift upon this
sea of strange faces ; and thrown at the same
time back into a moral chaos, full of new difficulties
and wonders, out of which she could
not see her way.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A DAY or two after, they all went to the Priory
for Easter.

The Priory was in the Isle of Wight, and it
was Markham's house. It was not a very great
house, nor was it medieval and mysterious, as an
unsophisticated imagination naturally expected.
Its name came, it was said (or hoped), from
an old ecclesiastical establishment once planted
there ; but the house itself was a sort of 
Gothic, with a good deal of plaster
and imitated ornament of the perpendicular
kind,  that is to say, the worst of its kind,
which is, unfortunately, that which most attracts
the imitator. It stood on a slope above the
beach, where the vegetation was soft and abundant,
recalling more or less to the mind of
Frances the aspect of the country with which

she was best acquainted  the great bosquets of
glittering green laurel and palestine simulating
the daphne and orange - trees, and the grey
downs above recalling in some degree the scattered
hill-tops above the level of the olives ;
though the great rollers of the Atlantic which
thundered in upon the beach were not like that
rippling blue which edged the Eiviera in so
many rims of delicate colour. The differences,
however, struck Frances less than the resemblance,
for which she had scarcely been prepared,
and which gave her a great deal of surprised
pleasure at the first glance. This put temporarily
out of her mind all the new and
troublesome thoughts which her conversation
with Markham had called forth, and which had
renewed her curiosity about her step-brother,
whom she had begun to receive into the landscape
around her with the calm of habit and
without asking any questions. Was he really
bad, or rather, not good ?  which was as far as
Frances could go. Had he really been the
cause, or partly the cause, of the separation between
her father and mother ? She was bewildered
by these little breaks in the curtain which

concealed the past from her so completely  that
past which was so well known to the others
around, which an invincible delicacy prevented
her from speaking of or asking questions about.
All went on so calmly around her, as if nothing
out of the ordinary routine had ever been ; and
yet she was aware not only that much had
been, but that it remained so distinctly in the
minds of those smiling people as to influence
their conduct and form their motives still.
Though it was Markham's house, it was his
mother who was the uncontested sovereign, not
less, probably more, than if the real owner had
been her husband instead of her son. And
even Frances, little as she was acquainted with
the world, was aware that this was seldom the
case. And why should not Markham at his
age, which to her seemed at least ten years
more than it was, be married, when it was already
thought important that Constance should
marry ? These were very bewildering questions,
and the moment to resume the subject
never seemed to come.

There was a party in the house, which
included Claude Ramsay, and Sir Thomas,

the elder person in whom Lady Markham had
thought there could be nothing particularly interesting.
He was a very frequent member of
the family party, all the same ; and now that
they were living under the same roof, Frances
did not find him without interest. There was
also a lady with two daughters, whose appearance
was very interesting to the girl. They
reminded her a little of Constance, and of the
difficulty she had found in finding subjects on
which to converse with her sister. The Miss
Montagues knew a great many people, and
talked of them continually ; but Frances knew
nobody. She listened with interest, but she
could add nothing either to their speculations
or recollections. She did not know anything
about the contrivances which brought about
the marriage between Cecil Gray and Emma
White. She was utterly incompetent even to
hazard an opinion as to what Lady Milbrook
would do 7101V ; and she did not even understand
about the hospitals which they visited
and *' took an interest " in. She tried very
hard to get some little current with which she
could make herself acquainted in the river of

their talk ; but nothing could be more difficult.
Even when she brought out her sketch-book
and opened ground upon that subject  about
which the poor little girl modestly believed she
knew by experience a very little  she was
silenced in five minutes by their scientific acquaintance
with washes, and glazing, and body
colour, and the laws of composition. Frances
.did not know how to compose a picture. She
said : " Oh no ; I do not make it up in my head
at all ; I only do what I see."

You mean you don't formulate rules," said
Maud. " Of course you don't mean that you
merely imitate, for that is tea-board style ; and
your drawings are quite pretty. I like that
little bit of the coast."

"How well one knows the Eiviera," said
Ethel; "everybody who goes there has something
to show. But I am rather surprised you
don't keep to one style. You seem to do a
little of everything. Don't you feel that flower-painting
rather spoils your hand for the larger
effects ? "

It wants such a very different distribution
of light and shade," said the other sister. "You

have to calculate your tones on such a different
scale. If you were working at South Kensington
or any other of the good schools "

I should not advise her to do that  should
you, Maud ?  there is such a long elementary
course. But I suppose you did your freehand,
and all that, in the schoolroom ? "

Frances did not know how to reply. She
put away her little sketch with a sense of extreme
humiliation. "Oh, I am afraid I am not
fit to talk about it at all," she said. " I don't
even know what words to use. It has been all
imitation, as you say."

The two young ladies smiled upon her, and
reassured her. " You must not be discouraged.
I am sure you have talent. It only wants a
little hard work to master the principles ; and
then you go on so much easier afterwards,"
they said. It puzzled Frances much that they
did not produce their own sketches, which she
thought would have been as good as a lesson
to her; and it was not till long after that it
dawned upon her that in this particular Maud
and Ethel were defective. They knew how todo

it, but could not do it ; whereas she could
do it without knowing how.

*how is it, I wonder," said one of them,
changing the subject after a little polite pause,
which suggested fatigue, " that Mrs Winter-bourn
is not here this year ? "

They looked at her for this information, to
the consternation of Frances, who did not know
how to reply. "You know I have not been
long  here," she said : she had intended to say
at home, but the effort was beyond her 
"and I don't even know who Mrs Winter-bourn
is."

Oh ! " they both cried ; and then for a
minute there was nothing more. "You may
think it strange of us to speak of it," said Maud
at length ; " only, it always seemed so well
understood ; and we have always met her here. "'

Oh, she goes everywhere," cried Ethel.

There never was a word breathed against

Please don't think that, from anything we have
said."

On the contrary, mamma always says it is
.90 wise of Lady Markham," said Maud ; "so

much better that he should always meet her
here."

Frances retired into herself with a confusion
which she did not know how to account for.
She did not in the least know what they meant,
and yet she felt the colour rise in her cheek.
She blushed for she knew not what ; so that
Maud and Ethel said to each other, afterwards :
"She is a little hypocrite. She knew just as
well as either you or I."

Frances, however, did not know; and here
was another subject about which she could not
ask information. She carried away her sketchbook
to her room with a curious feeling of
ignorance and foolishness. She did not know
anything at all  neither about her own surroundings,
nor about the little art which she
was so fond of, in which she had taken just a
little pride, as well as so much pleasure. She
put the sketches away with a few hasty tears,
feeling troubled and provoked, and as if she
could never look at them with any satisfaction,
or attempt to touch a pencil again. She had
never thought they were anything great ; but
to be made to feel so foolish in her own little

way was hard. Nor was this the only trial to
which she was exposed. After dinner, retiring,
which she did with a sense of irritation
which her conscience condemned, from the
neighbourhood of Ethel and Maud, she fell
into the hands of Sir Thomas, who also had a
way of keeping very clear of these young ladies.
He came to where Frances was standing in a
corner, almost out of sight. She had drawn
aside one edge of the curtain, and was looking
out upon the shrubbery and the lawn, which
stood out against the clear background of the
sea  with a great deal of wistfulness, and perhaps
a secret tear or two in her eyes. Here
she was startled by a sudden voice in her ear.
"You are looking out on the moonlight," Sir
Thomas said. It took her a moment before she
could swallow the sob in her throat.

"It is very bright ; it is a little like  home."
This word escaped her in the confusion of her
thoughts.

You mean the Eiviera. Did you like it so

much ? I should have thought But no

doubt, whatever the country is which we call
home, it seems desirable to us."

"Oh, but you can't know how beautiful it
is," cried Frances, roused from her fit of despondency.
"Perhaps you have never been
there ? "

"Oh yes, often. Does your father like it
as well as you do, Miss Waring? I should
have supposed, for a man "

"Yes," said Frances, "I know what you
mean. They say there is nothing to do. But
my father is not a man to want to do anything.
He is fond of books ; he reads all day
long, and then comes out into the loggia with
his cigarette  and talks to me."

That sounds very pleasant," said Sir Thomas
with a smile, taking no notice of the involuntary
quaver that had got into the girl's
voice. " But I wonder if perhaps he does
not want a little variety, a little excitement ?
Excuse me for saying so. Men, you know,
are not always so easily contented as the better
half of creation ; and then they are accustomed
to larger duties, to more action, to
public affairs."

I don't think papa takes much interest in
all that," said Frances with an air of authority.

' He has never cared for what was g-oing on.
The newspapers he sometimes will not open."

"That is a great change. He used to bea
hot politician in the old days."

Did you know my father ? " she cried,
turning upon him with a glow of sudden
interest.

I knew him very well  better than most
people. I was one of those who felt the deepest
regret "

She stood gazing at him with her face lifted
to him with so profound an interest and desire
to know, that he stopped short, startled by
the intensity of her look. "Miss Waring,"
he said, "it is a very delicate subject to talk
to their child upon."

"Oh, I know it is. I don't like to ask 
and yet it seems as if I ought to know."
Frances was seized with one of those sudden
impulses of confidence wdiicli sometimes make
the young so indiscreet. If she had known
Sir Thomas intimately, it would not have
occurred to her ; but as a stranger, he seemed
safe. "No one has ever told me," she added
in the heat of this sudden overflow, " neither

low it was or wliy it was  except Markham,
who says it was his fault."

There were faults on all sides, I think,"
said Sir Thomas. " There always are in such
cases. No one person is able to carry out
such a prodigious mistake. You must pardon
me if I speak plainly. You are the only
person whom I can ask about my old friend."

Oh, I like you to speak plainly," cried
Frances. " Talk to me about him ; ask me
anything you please." The tears came into
her voice, and she put her hands together instinctively.
She had been feeling very lonely,
and home-sick, and out of accord with all her
surroundings. To return even in thought to
the old life and its associations brought a flood
of bitter sweetness to her heart.

I can see at least," said Sir Thomas, " that
he has secured a most loving champion in his
child."

This arrested her enthusiasm in a moment.
She was too sincere to accept such a solution
of her own complicated feelings. Was she the
loving champion which she was so suddenly
assumed to be ? She became vaguely aware

that the things which had rushed back upon
her mind and filled her with longing were not
the excellences of her father, but rather the
old peace and ease and ignorance of her youthful
life, which nothing could now restore. She
could not respond to the confidence of her
father's friend. He had kept her in ignorance ;
he had deceived her ; he had not made any
attempt to clear the perplexities of her difficult
path, but left her to find out everything,
more perhaps than she yet knew. Sir Thomas
was a little surprised that she made him no
reply; but he set it clown to emotion and
agitation, which might well take from so young
and innocent a girl the possibility of reply.

I don't know whether I am justified in
the hope I have been entertaining ever since
you came," he said. "It is very hard that
your father should be banished from his own
country and all his duties by  what was, after
all, never a very important cause. There has
been no unpardonable wrong on either side.
He is terribly sensitive, you know. And Lady
Markham  she is a dear friend of mine ; I
have a great affection for her "

VOL. II. p

"If you please," said Frances quickly, "it
is not possible for me to listen to any discussion
of mamma."

*'My dear Miss Waring," he cried, 'this
is better and better. You are then a partisan
on both sides ? "

Poor little Frances felt as if she were at
least hemmed in on both sides, and without
any way of escape. She looked up in his
face with an appeal which he did not understand,
for how was it possible to suppose that
she did not know all about a matter which
had affected her whole life ?

'don't you think," said Sir Thomas, drawing
very close to her, stooping over her, " that if
we two were to lay our heads together, we
might bring things to a better understanding ?
Constance, to whom I have often spoken on
the subject, knew only one side  and that
not the difficult side. Markham was mixed
up in it all, and could never be impartial.
But you know both, and your father best. I
am sure you are full of sense, as Waring's
daughter ought to be. Don't you think "

He had taken both Frances' hands in his

enthusiasm, and pressed so closely upon her
that she had to retreat a step, almost with
alarm. And he had his back to the lio-ht,
shutting her out from all succour, as she
thought. It was all the girl could do to
keep from crying out that she knew nothing,
that she was more ignorant than any one ;
and when there suddenly came from behind
Sir Thomas the sound of many voices, without
agitation or special meaning, her heart gave a
bound of relief, as if she had escaped. He gave
her hands a vehement pressure and let them
drop ; and then Claude Ramsay's voice of gentle
pathos came in. "Are you not afraid. Miss
Waring, of the draught ? There must be some
door or window open. It is enough to blow
one away."

"You look like a couple of conspirators,"
said Markham. " Fan, your little eyes are
blinking like an owl's. Come back, my dear,
into the light."

"No," said Claude; "the light here is perfect.
I never can understand why people
should want so much light only to talk by.
Will you sit here. Miss Waring ? Here is a

corner out of the draught. I want to say
something more about Borclighera  one other
little renseignement, and then I shall not
require to trouble you any more."

Frances looked at Markham for help, but
he did not interfere. He looked a little grave,
she thought ; but he took Sir Thomas by the
arm, and presently led him away. She was
too shy to refuse on her own account Claude's
demand, and sat down reluctantly on the sofa,
where he placed himself at her side.

"Your sister," he said, "never had much
sympathy with me about draughts. She used
to think it ridiculous to take so much care.
But my doctrine always is, take care beforehand,
and then you don't need to trouble
yourself after. Don't you think 1 am right ? "

She understood very well how Constance
would receive his little speeches. In the agitation
in which she was, gleams of perception
coming through the chaos, sudden visions of
Constance, who had been swept out of her mind
by the progress of events, and of her father,
whom her late companion had been talking
about  as if it would be so easy to induce

him to change all his ways, and do what other
people wished!  came back to her mind. They
seemed to stand before her there, both appearing
out of the mists, both so completely aware
of what they wanted to do  so little likely to
be persuaded into some one else's mode of
thought.

I think Constance and you were not at all
likely to think the same," she said.

Ramsay looked at her with a glance which
for him was hasty and al]?iost excited. " No ? "
he said in an interrogative tone. 'what
makes you think so ? Perhaps when one
comes to consider, you are right. She was
always so well and strong. You and I,
perhaps, do you think, are more alike ? "

"No," said Frances, very decidedly. "I
am much stronger than Constance. She might
have some patience with  with  what was
fanciful ; but I should have none."

With what was fanciful ? Then you think
I am fanciful ? " said Claude, raising himself
up from his feeble attitude. He laughed a
little, quite undisturbed in temper by this
reproach. "I wish other people thought so;

I wish they would let me stay comfortably at
home, and do what everybody does. But, Miss
Waring, you are not so sympathetic as I
thought."

*' I am afraid I am not sympathetic," said
Frances, feeling much ashamed of herself.
*' Oh, Mr Kamsay, forgive me ; I did not
mean to say anything so disagreeable."

Never mind," said Claude. " When people
don't know me, they often think so. I am
sorry, because I thought perhaps you and I
might agree better. But very likely it was
a mistake. Are you feeling the draught again ?
It is astonishing how a draught will creep
round, when you think you are quite out of
the way of it. If you feel it, you must not
run the risk of a cold, out of consideration
for me."

CHAPTEK XXIX.

She thinks I am fanciful," lie said.

He was sitting with Lady Markham in the
room which was her special sanctuary. She
did not call it her boudoir  she was not at all
inclined to louder ; but it answered to that
retirement in common parlance. Those who
wanted to see her alone, to confide in her, as
many people did, knocked at the door of this
room. It opened with a large window upon
the lawn, and looked down through a carefully
kept opening upon the sea. Amid all the little
luxuries appropriate to my lady's chamber, you
could see the biggest ships in the world pass
across the gleaming foreground, shut in between
two masses of laurel, making a delightful confusion
of the great and the small, which was
specially pleasant to her. She sat, however,

with her back to this pleasant prospect, holding
up a screen, to shade her delicate cheek from
the bright little fire, which, though April was
far advanced, was still thought necessary so
near the sea. Claude had thrown himself into
another chair in front of the fireplace. No
warmth was ever too much for him. There
was the usual pathos in his tone, but a faint
consciousness of something amusing was in his
face.

*did she?" said Lady Markham with a
laugh. " The little impertinent ! But you
know, my dear boy, that is what I have always-said."


"Yes  it is quite true. You healthy people,
you are always of opinion that one can get
over it if one makes the effort ; and there is
no way of proving the contrary but by dying,
which is a strong step."

A very strong step  one, I hope, that you
will not think of taking. They are both very
sincere, my girls, though in a different way.
They mean what they say ; and yet they do
not mean it, Claude. That is, it is quite true ;
but does not affect their regard for you, which,

I am sure, without implying any deeper feeling,
is strong."

He shook his head a little. " Dear Lady
Markham," he said, "you know if I am to
marry, I want, above all things, to marry a
daughter of yours."

Dear boy ! " she said, with a look full of
tender meaning.

You have always been so good to me, since
ever I can remember. But what am I to do if
they  object? Constance  has run away from
me, people say : run away  to escajDC me ! "
His voice took so tragically complaining a tone,
that Lady Markham bit her lip and held her
screen higher to conceal her smile. Next
moment, however, she turned upon him with
a perfectly grave and troubled face.

"Dear Claude!" she cried, "what an injustice
to poor Con. I thought I had explained
all that to you. You have known all along
the painful position I am in with their father,
and you know how impulsive she is. And

then, Markham Alas ! " she continued with

a sigh, "my position is very complicated,
Claude. Markham is the best son that ever

was ; but you know I have to pay a great deal
for it."

"Ah!" said Claude; "Nelly Winterbourn
and all that," with a good many sage nods of
his head.

"Not only Nelly Winterbourn  there is no
harm in her, that I know  but he has a great
influence with the girls. It was he who put it
into Constance's head to go to her father. I am
quite sure it was. He put it before her that it
was her duty."

"0  oh!" Claude made this very English
comment with the doubtful tone which it expresses
; and added, " Her duty ! " with a very
unconvinced air.

He did so, I know. And she was so fond
of adventure and change. I agreed with him
partly afterwards that it was the best thing
that could happen to her. She is finding outby
experience what banishment from Society,
and from all that makes life pleasant, is. I
have no doubt she will come back  in a very
different frame of mind."

Claude did not respond, as perhaps Lady
Markham expected him to do. He sat and

dandled his leg before the fire, not looking at
her. After some time, he said in a reflective
way, "Whoever I marry, she will have to
resign herself to banishment, as you call it 
that has been always understood. A warm
climate in winter  and to be ready to start at
any moment."

That is always understood  till you get
stronger," said Lady Markham in the gentlest
tone. " But you know I have always expected
that you would get stronger. Remember, you
have been kept at home all this year  and you
are better; at all events you have not suffered."

Had I been sent away, Constance would
have remained at home," he said. " I am not
speaking out of irritation, but only to understand
it fully. It is not as if I were finding
fault with Constance ; but you see for yourself
she could not stand me all the year round. A
fellow who has always to be thinking about the
thermometer is trying."

My dear boy," said Lady Markham, " everything
is trying. The thermometer is much less
offensive than most things that men care for.
Girls are brought up in that fastidious way :

you all like them to be so, and to think they
have refined tastes, and so forth ; and then you
are surprised when you find they have a little

difficulty Constance was only fanciful, that

was all  impatient."

Fanciful," he repeated. " That was what
the little one said. I wish she were fanciful,
and not so horribly well and strong."

My dear Claude," said Lady Markham
quickly, " you would not like that at all ! A
delicate wife is the most dreadful thing  one
that you would always have to be considering ;
who could not perhaps go to the places that
suited you ; who would not be able to go outwith
you when you wanted her. I don't insist
upon a daughter of mine : but not that, not
that, for your own sake, my dear boy ! "

*' I believe you are right," he said, with a look
of conviction. " Then I suppose the only thing
to be done is to wait for a little and see how
things turn out. There is no hurry about it,
you know."

Oh, no hurry ! " she said, with uneasy assent.
That is, if you are not in a hurry," she added
after a pause.

No, I don't think so. I am rather enjoying
myself, I think. It always does one good," he
said, getting up slowly, " to come and have it
out with you."

Lady Markham said " Dear boy ! " once more,
and gave him her hand, which he kissed ; and
then his audience was over. He went away; and
she turned round to her writing-table to the
inevitable correspondence. There was a little
cloud upon her forehead so long as she was
alone ; but when another knock came at the
door, it cleared by magic as she said "Come in."
This time it was Sir Thomas who appeared. He
was a tall man, with grey hair, and had the air
of being very carefully brushed and dressed.
He came in, and seated himself where Claude
had been, but pushed back the chair from the
fire.

Don't you think," he said, " that you keep
your room a little too warm ? "

Claude complained that it was cold. It is
difficult to please everybody."

"Oh, Claude. I have come to speak to you,
dear Lady Markham, on a very different subject.
I was talking to Frances last night."

So I perceived. And what do you think of
my little girl ? "

You know," he said, with some solemnity,
the hopes I have always entertained that sometime
or other our dear Waring might be brought
among us once more."

*' I have always told you," said Lady Markham,
"that no difficulties should be raised by
me."

'you where always everything that is good
and kind," said Sir Thomas. "I was talking
to his dear little daughter last night. She
reminds me very much of "Waring, Lady Markham."


That is odd ; for everybody tells me  and
indeed I can see it myself  that she is like me."

She is very like you ; still, she reminds me
of her father more than I can say. I do think
we have in her the instrument  the very instrument
that is wanted. If he is ever to be
brought back again "

Which I doubt," she said, shaking her head.

"Don't let us doubt. With perseverance,
everything is to be hoped ; and here we have in
our very hands what I have always looked for

some one devoted to him and very fond of
you."

Is she very fond of me ? " said Lady Markham.
Her face softened  a little moisture crept
into her eyes. " Ah, Sir Thomas, I wonder if
that is true. She was very much moved by the
idea of her mother  a relation she had never
known. She expected I don't know what, but
more, I am sure, than she has found in me.
Oh, don't say anything. I am scarcely surprised
; I am not at all 'displeased. To come
with your heart full of an ideal, and to find an
ordinary woman  a woman in Society ! " The
moisture enlarged in Lady Markham's eyes 
not tears, but yet a liquid mist that gave
them pathos. She shook her head, looking at
him with a smile.

We need not argue the question," said Sir
Thomas, " for I know she is very fond of you.
You should have heard her stop me when she
thought I was going to criticise you. Of course,
had she known me better she would have known
how impossible that was."

Lady Markham did not say "Dear Sir
Thomas 1 " as she had said " Dear boy ! " but her

look was the same as that which she had turned
upon Claude. She was in no doubt as to what
his account of her would be.

She can persuade him, if anybody can," he
said. *' I think I shall go and see him as soon
as I can get away  if you do not object. To
bring our dear Waring back, to see you two
together again, who have always been the objects
of ray warmest admiration "

You are too kind. You have always had a
higher opinion of me than I deserve," she said.
One can only be grateful. One cannot try to
persuade you that you are mistaken. As for
my  husband "  there was the slightest momentary
pause before she said the name  " I fear
you will never get him to think so well of meas
you do. It is a great misfortune ; but still it
sometimes happens that other people think more
of a woman than  her very own."

"You must not say that. Waring adored
you."

She shook her head again. " He had a great
admiration," she said, " for a woman to whom
he gave my name. But he discovered that it
was a mistake ; and for me in my own person

he had no particular feeling. Think a little
whether you are doing wisely. If you should
succeed in bringing us two together again "

"What then?"

She did not say any more : her face grew
pale, as by a sudden touch or breath. When
such a tie as marriage is severed, if by death
or by any other separation, it is not a light
thing to renew it again. The thought of that
possibility  which yet was not a possibility
suddenly realised, sent the blood back to
Lady Markham's heart. It was not that she
was unforgiving, or even that she had nota
certain remainder of love for her husband.
But to resume those habits of close companionship
after so many years  to give up her own
individuality, in part at least, and live a dual
life  this thought startled her. She had said
that she would put no difficulties in the way.
But then she had not thought of all that was
involved.

The next visitor who interrupted her retirement
came in without the preliminary of
knocking. It was Markham who thus made
his appearance, presenting himself to the full

VOL. II. 0.

daylight in his light clothes and colourless
aspect ; not very well dressed, a complete contrast
to the beautiful if sickly youth of her
first visitor, and to the size and vigour of
the other. Markham had neither beauty nor
vigour. Even the usual keenness and humorous
look had gone out of his face. He held
a letter in his hand. He did not, like the
others, put himself into the chair where Lady
Markham, herself turned from the light, could
mark every change of countenance in her interlocutor.
He went up to the fire with the ease
of the master of the house, and stood in front
of it as an Englishman loves to do. But he
was not quite at his ease on this occasion. He
said nothing until he had assumed his place,
and even stood for a whole minute or more
silent before he found his voice. Lady Markham
had turned her chair towards him at once,
and sat with her head raised and expectant,
watching him. For with Markham, never very
reticent of his words, this prolonged pause
seemed to mean that there was something
important to say. But it did not appear when
he spoke. He put the forefinger of one hand

on the letter he held in the other. *'I have
heard from the Winterbonrns," he said. " They
are coming tomorrow."

Lady Markham made the usual little exclamation
"Oh!"  faintly breathed with the
slightest catch, as if it might have meant more.
Then, after a moment  " Very well, Markham :
they can have their usual rooms," she said.

Again there was a little pause. Then  " He
is not very well," said Markham.

Oh, that is a pity," she replied with very
little concern.

"That's not strong enough. I believe he is
rather ill. They are leaving the Crossroads
sooner than they intended because there's no
doctor there."

Then it is a good thing," said Lady Markham,
"that there is such a good doctor here.
We are so healthy a party, he is quite thrown
away on us."

Markham did not find that his mother divined
what he wanted to say with her usual promptitude.
"I am afraid Winterbourn is in a bad
way," he said at length, moving uneasily from
one foot to the other, and avoiding her eye.

Do you mean that there is anything serious
dangerous ? Good heavens 1 " cried Lady
Markham, now fully roused, " I hope she is not
going to bring that man to die here."

That's just what I have been thinking. It
would be decidedly awkward."

*' Oh, awkward is not the word," cried Lady
Markham, with a sudden vision of all the inconveniences
: her pretty house turned upside
down  though it was not hers, but his  a stop
put to everything  the flight of her guests in
every direction  herself detained and separated
from all her social duties. " You take it very
coolly," she said. " You must write and say it
is impossible in the circumstances."

Can't," said Markham. " They must have
started by this time. They are to travel slowly
to husband his strength."

"To husband ! Telegraph, then ! Good

heavens ! Markham, don't you see what a dreadful
nuisance  how impossible in every point of
view."

Come," he said, with a return of his more
familiar tone. " There's no evidence that he
means to die here. I daresay he won't, if he

can help it, poor beggar ! The telegraph is as
impossible as the post. We are in for it,
mammy. Let's hope he'll pull through."

And if he doesn't, Markham ! "

*that will be  more awkward still," he said.
Markham was not himself: he shuffled from
one foot to another, and looked straight before
him, never glancing aside with those keen looks
of understanding which made his insignificant
countenance interesting. His mother was, what
mothers too seldom are, his most intimate
friend ; but he did not meet her eye. His
hands were thrust into his pockets, his shoulders
up to his ears. At last a faint and doubtful
gleam broke over his face. He burst into a
sudden chuckle  one of those hoarse brief notes
of laughter which were peculiar to him. " By
Jove ! it would be poetic justice," he said.

Lady Markham showed no inclination to
laughter. " Is there nothing we can do ? " she
cried.

Think of something else," said Markham,
with a sudden recovery. " I always find that
the best thing to do  for the moment. What
was Claude saying to you  and t'other man ? "

'' Claude ! I don't know what he was saying.
News like this is enough to drive everything
else out of one's head. He is wavering between
Con and Frances."

Mother, I told you. Frances will have
nothing to say to him."

Frances  will obey the leading of events, I
hope."

"Poor little Fan! I don't think she will,
though. That child has a great deal in her.
She shows her parentage."

Sir Thomas says she reminds him much of
her  father," Lady Markham said, with a faint
smile.

There is something of Waring too," said her
son, nodding his head.

This seemed to jar upon the mother. She
changed colour a little ; and then added, her
smile growing more constrained: "He thinks
she may be a powerful instrument in  changing
his mind  bringing him, after all these years,
back"  here she paused a little, as if seeking
for a phrase ; then added, her smile growing
less and less pleasant  ''to his duty."

Then Markham for the first time looked at

her. He had been paying but partial attention
up to this moment, his mind being engrossed
with difficulties of his own ; but he awoke at
this suggestion, and looked at her with something
of his usual keenness, but with a gravity
not at all usual. And she met his eye with an
awakening in hers which was still more remarkable.
For a moment they thus contemplated
each other, not like mother and son, nor like
the dear and close friends they were, but like
two antagonists suddenly perceiving, on either
side, the coming conflict. For almost the first
time there woke in Lady Markham's mind a
consciousness that it was possible her son, who
had been always her champion, her defender,
her companion, might wish her out of his way.
She looked at him with a rising colour, with all
her nerves thrilling, and her whole soul on the
alert for his next words. These were words
which he would have preferred not to speak ;
but they seemed to be forced from his lips
against his will, though even as he said them
he explained to himself that they had been
in his mind to say before he knew  before the
dilemma that might occur had seemed possible.

Yes ? " he said. " I understand what he
means. I  even I  had been thinking that
something of the sort  might be a good
thing."

She clasped her hands with a quick passionate
movement. "Has it come to this  in a
moment  without warning ? " she cried.

Chapter XXX.

The Winterbourns came next day : lie to the
best room in the bouse, a temperature carefully
kept up to sixty-five' degrees, and the daily
attentions of the excellent doctor, who, Lady
Markham declared, was thrown away upon her
healthy household. Mr Winterbourn was a
man of fifty, a confirmed invalid, who travelled
with a whole paraphernalia of medicaments, and
a servant who was a trained nurse, and very
skilful in all the lower branches of the medical
craft. Mrs Winterbourn, however, was not like
this. She was young, pretty, lively, fond of
what she called " fun," and by no means bound
to her husband's sick-room. Everybody said
she was very kind to him. She never refused
to go to him when he wanted her. Of her own
accord, as part of her usual routine, she would

go into this room three or even four times a-day
to see if she could do anything. She sat with
him always while Roberts the man-nurse had
his dinner. What more could a woman do ?
She had indeed, it was understood, married him
against her will ; but that is an accident not to
be avoided, and she had always been a model
of propriety. They were asked everywhere,
which, considering how little adapted he was
for society, was nothing less than the highest
proof of how much she was thought of ; and the
most irreproachable matrons did not hesitate
to invite Lord Markham to meet the Winter-burns.
It was a wonderful, quite an ideal
friendship, everybody said. And it was such
a comfort to both of them ! For Markham,
considering the devotion he had always shown
to his mother, would probably find it very inconvenient
to marry, which is the only thing
which makes friendship between a man and a
woman difficult. A woman does not like her
devoted friend to marry : that is the worst of
those delicate relationships, and it is the point
upon which they generally come to shipwreck
in the end. As a matter of course, any other

harm of a grosser kind was not so much as
thought of by any one who knew them. There
were people, however, who asked themselves
and each other, as a fine problem, one of those
cases of complication which it pleases the human
intellect to resolve, what would happen if 
died ?  a thing which he was continually
threatening to do. It had been at one
time quite a favourite subject of speculation
in society. Some said that it would not suit
Markham at all,  that he would get out of it
somehow; some, that there would be no escape
for him ; some, that with such a fine jointure as
Nelly would have, it would set the little man
up, if he could give up his "ways." Markham
had not a very good reputation, though everybody
knew that he was the best son in the
world. He played, it was said, more and otherwise
than a man of his position ought to play.
He was often amusing, and always nice to
women, so that society never in the least broke
with him, and he had champions everywhere.
But the mere fact that he required champions
was a proof that all was not exactly as it ought
to be. He was a man with a great many

ways," which of course it is natural to suppose
would be bad ways, though, except in the
matter of play, no one knew very well what
they were.

Winterbourn, however, had never been so
bad as he was on this occasion, when he was
almost lifted out of the carriage and carried to
his room, his very host being allowed no Speech
of him till next morning, after he was supposed
to have got over the fatigue of the journey.
The doctor, when he was summoned, shook his
head and looked very grave ; and it may be
imagined what talks went on among the guests
when no one of the family was present to hear.
These talks were sometimes carried on before
Frances, who was scarcely realised as the daughter
of the house. Even Claude Ramsay forgot
his own pressing concerns in consideration of
the urgent question of the moment, and Sir
Thomas ceased to think of Waring. Frances
gleaned from what she heard that they were all
preparing for flight. " Of course, in case anything
dreadful happens, dear Lady Markham,"
they said, "will no doubt go too."

What a funny thing," said one of the Miss

Montagues, " if it should happen in this
house."

Funny, Laura 1 You mean dreadful," cried
her mother. " Do choose your words a little
better."

' Oh, you know what I mean, mamma ! "
cried the young lady.

"You must think it dreadful indeed," said
Mrs Montague, addressing Frances, " that we
should discuss such a sad thing in this way.
Of course, we are all very sorry for poor Mr
Winterbourn ; and if he had been ill and dying
in his own house But one's mind is occupied
at present by the great inconvenience 
oh, more than that  the horror and  and embarrassment
to your dear mother."

"All that," said Sir Thomas with a certain
solemnity. Perhaps it was the air of unusual
gravity with which he uttered these two words
which raised the smallest momentary titter, 
no, not so much as a titter  a faintly audible
smile, if such an expression may be used, 
chiefly among the young ladies, dio had perhaps
a clearer realisation of the kind of embarrassment
that was meant than was expected of

them. But Frances had no clue whatever to it.
She replied warmly 

My mother will not think of the inconvenience.
It is surely those who are in such
trouble themselves who are the only people to
think about. Poor Mrs Winterbourn "

Who is it that is speaking of me in such a
kind voice ? " said the sick man's wife.

She had just come into the room ; and she
was very well aware that she was being discussed
by everybody about  herself and her
circumstances, and all those contingencies which
were, in spite of herself, beginning to stir her
own mind, as they had already done the minds
of all around. That is one thing which in any
crisis people in society may be always sure of,
that their circumstances are being fully talked
over by their friends.

I hope we have all kind voices when we
speak of you, my dear Nelly. This one was
Frances Waring, our new little friend here."

Ah, that explains," said Mrs Winterbourn ;
and she went on, without saying more, to the
conservatory, which opened from the drawing-room
in which the party was seated. They

were silenced, though they had not been saying
anything very bad of her. The sudden appearance
of the person discussed always does make
a certain impression. The gentlemen of the
group dispersed, the ladies began to talk of
something else. Frances, very shy, yet burdened
with a great desire to say or do something
towards the consolation of those who
were, as she had said, in such trouble, went
after Mrs AVinterbourn. She had seated herself
where the big palms and other exotic foliage
were thickest, out of sight of the drawing-room,
close to the open doorway that led to the lawn
and the sea. Frances was a little surprised
that the wife of a man who was thought to be
dying should leave his bedside at all ; but she
reflected that to prevent breaking down, and
thus being no longer of any use to the patient,
it was the duty of every nurse to take a certain
amount of rest and fresh air. She felt, however,
more and more timid as she approached.
Mrs Winterbourn had not the air of a nurse.
She was dressed in her usual way, with her
usual ornaments  not too much, but yet enough
to make a tinkle, had she been at the side of a

sick person, and possibly to have disturbed him.
Two or three bracelets on a pretty arm are very
pretty things ; but they are not very suitable
for a sick-nurse. She was sitting with a book
in one hand, leaning her head upon the other,
evidently not reading, evidently very serious.
Frances was encouraged by the downcast face.

"I hope you will not think me very bold,"
she said, the other starting and turning round
at the sound of her voice. " I wanted to ask if
I could help you in any way. I am very good
for keeping awake, and I could get you what
you wanted. Oh, I don't mean that I am good
enough to be trusted as nurse ; but if I might
sit up with you  in the next room  to get you
what you want."

What do you mean, child ? " the young
woman said in a quick, startled, half-offended
voice. She was not very much older than
Frances, but her experiences had been very different.
She thought offence was meant. Lady
Markham had always been kind to her, which
was, she felt, somewhat to Lady Markham's
own advantage, for Nelly knew that Markham
would never marry so long as her influence

lasted, and this was for his mother's good. But
now it was very possible that Lady Markham
was trembling, and had put her little daughter
forward to give a sly stroke. Her tone softened,
however, as she looked up in Frances' face. It
was perhaps only that the girl was a little
simpleton, and meant what she said. " You
think I sit up at night ? " she said. " Oh no, I
should be of no use. Mr Winterbourn has his
own servant, who knows exactly what to do ;
and the doctor is to send a nurse to let Roberts
get a little rest. It is very good of you. Nursing
is quite the sort of thing people go in for
now, isn't it ? But, unfortunately, poor Mr
Winterbourn can't bear amateurs, and I should
do no good."

She gave Frances a bright smile as she said
this, and turned again towards the scene outside,
opening her book at the same time, which
was like a dismissal. But at that moment, to
the great surprise of Frances, Markham appeared
without, strolling towards the open door.
He came in when he saw his little sister, nodding
to her with a look which stopped her as
she was about to turn away.

VOL. II. R

"I am glad you are making friends with
Frances," lie said. " How is Winterbourn
now ? "

I wdsli everybody would not ask me every
two minutes liow lie is now," cried the young
wife. ''He doesn't change from one half-hour
to another. Oh, impatient ; yes, I am impatient.
I am half out of my senses, what with
one thing and another ; and here is your sister
your sister  asking to help me to nurse him !
That was all that was wanting, I think, to drive
me quite mad ! "

I am sure little Fan never thought she
would produce such a terrible result. Be
reasonable, Nelly."

Don't call me Nelly, sir ; and don't tell me
to be reasonable. Don't you know how they
are all talking, these horrible people? Oh,
wdiy, why did I bring him here?"

"Whatever was the reason, it can't be undone
now," said Markham. " Come, Nelly ! This is
nothing but nerves, you know. You can be
yourself when you please."

Do you know why he talks to me like that
before you?" said Mrs AVinterbourn, suddenly

turning upon Frances. "It is because he thinks
things are coming to a crisis, and that I shall be

compelled " Here the hasty creature came

to a pause and stared suddenly round her.
"Oh, I don't know what I am saying, Geoff!
They are all talking, talking in every corner
about you and me."

"Eun away, Fan," said her brother. "Mrs
Winterbourn, you see, is not well. The best
thing for her is to be left in quiet. Runaways


*' It is you who ought to go away, Markham,
and leave her to me."

Oh!" said Markham, with a gleam of amusement,
"you set up for that too, Fan! But I
know better how to take care of Nelly than you
do. Eun away."

The consternation with which Frances obeyed
this request it would be difficult to describe.
She had not understood the talk in the drawing-room,
and she did not understand this. But it
gave her ideas a strange shock. A woman whose
husband was dying, and who was away from
him  who called Markham by his Christian
name, and apparently preferred his ministrations

to lier own ! She would not go back as
she came, to afford the ladies in the drawing-room
a new subject for their comments, but
went out instead by the open door, not thinking
that the only path by which she could return
indoors led past the window of her mothers
room, which opened on the lawn round the
angle of the house. Lady Markham was standing
there looking out as Frances came in sight.
She knocked upon the window to call her
daughter's attention, and opening it hurriedly,
called her in. " Have you seen Markham ? "
she said, almost before Frances could hear.

"I have left him, this moment."

You have left him. Is he alone, then ?
Who is with him ? Is Nelly Winterbourn
there ? "

Frances could not tell why it was that she
disliked to answer. She made a little assenting
movement of her head.

It ought not to be," cried Lady Markham
"not at this moment  at any other time,
if they like, but not now. Don't you see the
difference ? Before, nothing was possible.
Now  when at any moment she may be a

free woman, and Markham Don't you

see the difference ? They should not, they
should not, be together now ! "

Frances stood before her mother, feeling that
a claim was made upon her which she did not
even understand, and feeling also a helplessness
which was altogether foreign to her ordinary
sensations. She did not understand, nor wish
to understand  it was odious to her to think
even what it could mean. And what could
she do ? Lady Markham was agitated and
excited  not able to control herself.

"For I have just seen the doctor," she cried,
'' and he says that it is a question not even of
days, but of hours. Good heavens, child ! only
think of it,  that such a thing should happen
here; and that Markham  Markham !  should
have to manage everything. Oh, it is indecent
 there is no other word for it. Go and
call him to me. We must get him to go away."

"Mamma," said Frances, "how can I go
back ? He told me to go and leave them."

He is a fool," cried Lady Markham, stamping
her foot. "He does not see how he is
committing himself; he does not mind. Oh,

what does it matter what he said to you ! Eun
at once and bring him to me. Say I have something
urgent to tell him. Say  oh, say anything
! If Constance had been here, she would
have known."

Frances was very sensible to the arrow thus
flung at her in haste, without thought. She
was so stung by it, that she turned hastily todo
her mother's commission at all costs. But
before she had taken half-a-dozen steps, Markham
himself appeared, coming leisurely, easily,
with his usual composure, round the corner.
What's wrong with you, little un ? " he asked.
You are not vexed at what I said to you, Fan ?
I couldn't help it, my dear."

It isn't that, Markham. It is  mamma."

And then Lady Markham, too much excited
to wait, came out to join them. "Do you
know the state of affairs, Markham ? Does
she know? I want you to go off instantly,
without losing a moment, to Southampton, to
fetch Dr Howard. Quick ! There is just
time to get the boat."

Dr Howard ? What is wrong with the
man here ? "

''He is afraid of the responsibility  at least
I am, Markliam. Think  in your house ! Oh
yes, my dear, go without delay."

Markham paused, and looked at her with his
keen little eyes. " Mother, why don't you say
at once you want to get me out of the way ? "

I do. I don't deny it, Markham. But this
too. We ought to have another opinion. Do,
for any favour, what I ask you, dear ; oh, doit
! Oh yes, I would rather you sent him here,
and did not come back with him. But come
back, if you must ; only, go, go now."

You think he will be  dead before I could
get back ? I will telegraph for Dr Howard,
mother; but I will not go away."

You can do no good, Markham  except to
make people talk. Oh, for mercy's sake, whatever
you may do afterwards, go now."

I will go and telegraph  with pleasure," he
said.

Lady Markham turned and took Frances'
arm, as he left them. "I think I must give
in now altogether," she cried. "All is going
wrong with me. First Con, and then my boy.
For now I see wdiat will happen. And you

don't know, you can't think what Markham
has been to me. Oh, he has been everything
to me ! And now  I know what will happen
now."

Mamma," said Frances, trembling. She
wanted to say that little as she herself was,
she was one who would never forsake her
mother. But she was so conscious that Lady
Markham's thoughts went over her head and
took no note of her, that the words were stifled
on her lips. '' He said to me once that he could
never  leave you," she said, faltering, though
it was not what she meant to say.

"He said to you once ? Then he has

been thinking of it ; he has been discussing
the question ? " Lady Markham said with bitterness.
She leant heavily upon Frances' arm,
but not with any tender appreciation of the
girl's wistful desire to comfort her. " That
means," she said, " that I can never desert him.
I must go now and get rid of all this excitement,
and put on a composed face, and tell
the people that they may go away if they like.
It will be the right thing for them to go away.

But I can't stay here with death in the house,
and take a motherly care of  of that girl,

whom I never trusted  whom Markham

And she will marry him within the year. I
know it."

Frances made a little outcry of horror, being
greatly disturbed  " Oh no, no ! " without any
meaning, for 'she indeed knew nothing.

No ! How can you say No ?  when you
are quite in ignorance. I can't tell you what
Markham would wish  to be let alone, most
likely, if they would let him alone. But she
will do it. She always was headstrong ; and
now she will be rich. Oh, what a thing it is
altogether  like a thunderbolt out of a clear
sky. Who could have imagined, when we
came down here so tranquilly, with nothing

unusual If I thought of any change at

all, it was perhaps that Claude  whom, by the
way, you must not be rude to, Frances  that

Claude might perhaps And now, here is

everything unsettled, and my life turned upside
down."

What did she hope that Claude would have

done ? Frances' brain was all perplexed. She
had plunged into a sudden sea of troubles,
without knowing even what the wild elements
were that lashed the placid waters into fury
and made the sky dark all around.

Chapter Xxxi

The crisis, however, was averted  " mercifully,"
as Lady Markham said. Dr Howard from
Southampton  whom she had thought of only
by chance, on the spur of the moment, as a
way of getting rid of Markham  produced
some new lights ; and in reality was so successful
with the invalid, that he rallied, and
it became possible to remove him by slow
stages to his own house, to die there, which
he did in due course, but some time after,
and decorously, in the right way and place.
Frances felt herself like a spectator at a play
during all this strange interval, looking on at
the third act of a tragedy, which somehow had
got involved in a drawing-room comedy, with
scenes alternating, and throwing a kind of
wretched reflection of their poor humour upon

the tableaux of the darker drama. She thought
that she never should forget the countenance
of Nelly Winterbourn as she took her seat
beside her husband in the invalid carriage in
which he was conveyed away, and turned to
wave a farewell to the little group which had
assembled to watch the departure. Her face
was quivering with a sort of despairing impatience,
wretchedness, self-pity, the miserable
anticipations of a living creature tied to one
who was dead  nerves and temper and every
part of her being wrought to a feverish excitement,
made half delirious by the prospect, the
possibility, of escape. A wretched sort of spasmodic
smile was upon her lips as she waved
her hand to the spectators  those spectators
all on the watch to read her countenance, who,
she knew, were as well aware of the position
as herself. Frances was learning the lesson
thus set practically before her with applications
of her own. She knew now to a great
extent what it all meant, and why Markham
disappeared as soon as the carriage drove
away; while her mother, with an aspect of
intense relief, returned to her guests. " I

feel as if I could breathe again," Lady Markham
said. ' ' Not that I should have grudged
anything I could do for poor dear Nelly ; but
there is something so terrible in a death in
one's house."

I quite enter into your feelings, dear  oh,
quite!" said Mrs Montague; "most painful,
and most embarrassing besides."

Oh, as for that 1 " said Lady Markham.
It would have been indeed a great annoyance
and vexation to v break up our pleasant
party, and put out all your plans. But one
has to submit in such cases. However, I am
most thankful it has not come to that. Poor
Mr Winterbourn may last yet  for months,
Dr Howard says."

Dear me ; do you think that is to be
desired ? " said the other, " for poor Nelly's
sake."

Poor Nelly ! " said the young ladies. " Only
fancy months ! What a terrible fate ! "

And yet it was supposed to be a great match
for her, a penniless girl 1 "

*' It was a great match," said Lady Markham
composedly. "And dear Nelly has always behaved

so well. She is an example to many
women that have much less to put up with
than she has. Frances, will you see about
the lawn - tennis ? I am sure you want to
shake off the impression, you poor girls, who
have been so good."

Oh, dear Lady Markham, you don t suppose
we could have gone on laughing and making a
noise while there was such anxiety in the house.
But we shall like a game, now that there is no
impropriety

"And we are all so glad," said the mother,
that there was no occasion for turning out ;
for our visits are so dovetailed, I don't know
where we should have gone  and our house in
the hands of the workmen. I, for one, am very
thankful that poor Mr Winterbourn has a little
longer to live."

Thus, after this singular episode, the ordinary
life of the household was resumed ; and though
the name of poor Nelly recurred at intervals fora
day or two, there were many things that were
of more importance  a great garden-party, for
instance, for which, fortunately. Lady Markham
had not cancelled the invitations ; a yachting

expedition, and various other pleasant things.
The comments of the company were diverted
to Claude, who, finding Frances more easily
convinced than the others that draughts were
to be carefully avoided, sought her out on most
occasions, notwithstanding her plain-speaking
about his fancifulness.

Perhaps you were right," he said, " that I
think too much about my health. I shouldn't
wonder if you were quite right. But I have
always been warned that I was very delicate ;
and perhaps that makes one rather a bore to
one's friends."

"Oh, I hope you will forgive me, Mr Ramsay !
I never meant "

"There is poor Winterbourn, you see," said
Claude, accepting the broken apology with a
benevolent nod of his head and the mild pathos
of a smile. " He was one of your rash people,
never paying any attention to what was the
matter with him. He was quite a well-preserved
sort of man when he married Nelly St
John ; and now you see what a wreck ! By
Jove, though, I shouldn't like my wife, if I
married, to treat me like Nelly. But I promise

you there should be no Markham in my

case."

I don't know what Markham has to do with
it," said Frances with sudden spirit.

Oh, you don't know ! Well," he continued,
looking at her, "perhaps you don't know; and
so much the better. Never mind about Markham.
I should expect my wife to be with me
when I am ill ; not to leave me to servants, to
give me my  everything I had to take ; and to
cheer me up, you know. Do you think there
is anything unreasonable in that ? "

Oh no, indeed. Of course, if  if  she was
fond of you  which of course she would be, or
you would not want to marry her."

Yes," said Claude. '' Go on, please ; I like
to hear you talk."

I mean," said Frances, stumbling a little,
feeling a significance in this encouragement
which disturbed her, " that, of course  there
would be no question of reasonableness. She
would just do it by nature. One never asks
if it is reasonable or not."

Ah, you mean you wouldn't. But other
girls are different. There is Con, for instance."

Mr Kamsay, I don't think you ought to
speak to me so about my sister. Constance,
if she were in such a position, would do  what
was right."

"For that matter, I suppose Nelly Winter-bourn
does what is right  at least, every one
says she behaves so well. If that is what you
mean by right, I shouldn't relish it at all in
my wife."

Frances said nothing for a minute, and then
she asked, "Are you goi'lig to be married, Mr
Ramsay ? " in a tone which was half indignant,
half amused.

At this he started a little, and gave her an
inquiring look. " That is a question that wants
thinking of," he said. " Yes, I suppose I am, if
I can find any one as nice as that. You are
always giving me renseignements, Miss Waring.
If I can find some one who will, as you say,
never ask whether it is reasonable "

"Then," said Frances, recovering something
of the sprightliness which had distinguished her
in old days, " you don't want to marry any one
in particular, but just a wife ? "

What else could I marry ? " he asked in a

VOL. II. S

peevish tone. Then, with a change of his
voice,  ''I don't want to conceal anything
from you ; and there is no doubt you must
have heard : I was engaged to your sister Con ;
but she ran away from me," he added with
pathos. "You must have heard that."

I do not wonder that you were very fond of
her," cried Frances. " I see no one so delightful
as  she would be if she were here."

She had meant to make a simple statement,
and say, " No one so delightful as she ; " but
paused, remembering that the circumstances
had not been to Constance's advantage, and
that here she would have been in her proper
sphere.

As for Claude, he was somewhat embarrassed.
He said, " Fond is perhaps not exactly the
word. I thought she would have suited me 
better than any one I knew."

"If that was all," said Frances, "you would
not mind very much ; and I do not wonder
that she came away, for it would be rather
dreadful to be married because a gentleman
thought one suited him."

"Oh, I don't mean that would be so  in

every case," cried Claude, with sudden earnestness.


In any case, I think you should never tell
the girl's sister, Mr Ramsay ; it is not a very
nice thing to do."

Miss Marino;  Frances !  I was not thinking
of you as any girl's sister ; I was thinking
of you "

"I hope not at all; for it would be a great
pity to waste any more thoughts on our family,"
said Frances. " I have sometimes been a little
vexed that Constance came, for it changed all
my life, and took me away from every one I
knew. But I am glad you have told me this,
for now I understand it quite." She did not
rise from where she was seated and leave him,
as he almost hoped she would, making a little
quarrel of it, but sat still, with a composure
which Claude felt was much less complimentary.
"Now that I know all about it," she
said, after a little interval, with a laugh, " I
think what you want would be very unreasonable
 and what no woman could do."

You said the very reverse five minutes ago,"
he said sulkily.

"Yes  but I didn't know what the  what
the wages were," she said with another laugh.
"It is you who are giving me renseignements
now."

Claude took his complaint next morning to
Lady Markham's room. "She actually chaffed
me  chaffed me, I assure you ; though she looks
as if butter would not melt in her mouth."

"That is a little vulgar, Claude. If you
talk like that to a girl, what can you expect ?
Some, indeed, may be rather grateful to you,
as showing how little you look for ; but you
know I have always told you what you ought
to try to do is to inspire a grande passion,"

That is what I should like above all things
to do," said the young man ; " but "

But  it would cost too much trouble ? "

Perhaps ; and I am not an impassioned sort
of man. Lady Markham, was it really from me
that Constance ran away ? "

I have told you before, Claude, that was
not how it should be spoken of. She did not
run away. She took into her head a romantic
idea of making acquaintance with her father,
in which Markham encouraged her. Or perhaps

it was Markham that put it into her head.
It is possible  I can't tell you  that Markham
had already something else in his own head,
and that he had begun to think it would be a
good thing to try if other changes could be
made."

"What could Markham have in his head?
and what changes "

Oh," she cried, *' how can you ask me ?
I know how you have ,all been talking. You
speculate, just as I do."

I don't think so. Lady Markham," said
Claude. " I am sure Markham would find
all that sort of thing a great bore. Of
course I know what you mean. But I don't
think so. I have always told them my
opinion. Whatever may happen, Markham
will stick to you."

Poor Markham ! " she said, with a quick
revulsion of feeling. "After all, it is a little
hard, is it not, that he should have nothing
brighter than that to look to in his life ? "

Than you ? " said Claude. " If you ask my
opinion, I don't think so. I think he's a lucky
fellow. An old mother, I don't deny, might bea

bore. An old lady, half blind, never hearing
what you say, sitting by the fire  like the
mothers in books, or the Mrs Nickleby kind.
But you are as young and handsome and bright
as any of them  keeping everything right for
him, asking nothing. Upon my word, I think
he is very well off. I wish I were in his
place."

Lady Markham was pleased. Affectionate
flattery of this kind is always sweet to a
woman. She laughed, and said he was a gay
deceiver. " But, my dear boy, you will make
me think a great deal more of myself than I
have any right to think."

You ought to think more of yourself. And

so you really do not think that Con ? In

many ways, dear Lady Markham, I feel that
Con  understood me better than any one else
except you."

"I think you are right, Claude," she said,
with a grave face.

I am beginning to feel quite sure I am
right. When she writes, does she never say
anything about me ? "

Of course, she always  asks for you."

Is that all ? Asking does not mean much."

What more could she say ? Of course she
knows that she has lost her place in your
affection by her own rashness."

"Not lost, Lady Markham. It is not so
easy to do that."

'rit is true. Perhaps I should have said,
fears that she has forfeited  your respect."

*' After all, she has done nothing wrong,"
he said.

Nothing wrong ; but rash, headstrong,
foolish. Oh yes, she has been all that. It is
in the Waring blood ! "

I think you are a little hard upon her.
Lady Markham. By the way, don't you think
yourself, that with two daughters to marry, and
and all that : it would be a good thing if
Mr Waring  for you must have got over all
your little tiffs long ago  don't you think
that it would be a good thing if he could be
persuaded to  come back ? "

She had watched him with eyes that gleamed
from below her dropped eyelids. She said now,
as she had done to Sir Thomas, *'I should put
no difficulties in the way, you may be sure."

It would be more respectable," said Claude.
If getting old is good for anything, you know,
it should make up quarrels ; don't you think
so ? It would be a great deal better in every
way. And then Markham "

Markham," she said, " you think, would
then be free ? "

Well  then it wouldn't matter particularly
about Markham, what he did," the young man
said.

Lady Markham had borne a great many such
assaults in her life as if she felt nothing : but
as a matter of fact she did feel them deeply ;
and when a probable new combination was
thus calmly set before her, her usual composure
was put to a severe test. She smiled
upon Claude, indeed, as long as he remained
with her, and allowed him no glimpse of her
real feelings ; but when he was gone, felt fora
moment her heart fail her. She had, even
in the misfortunes which had crossed her life,
secured always a great share of her own way.
Many people do this even when they suffer
most. Whether they get it cheerfully or painfully,
they yet get it, which is always something.

Waring, when, in his fastidious impatience
and irritation, because he did not get
his, he had flung forth into the unknown,
and abandoned her and her life altogether, did
still, though at the cost of pain and scandal,
help his wife to this triumph, that she departed
from none of her requirements, and remained
mistress of the battlefield. She had her own
way, though he would not yield to it. But
as a woman grows older, and becomes less
capable of that pertinacity which is the best
means of securing her own way, and when
the conflicting wills against hers are many
instead of being only one, the state of the
matter changes. Constance had turned against
her, when she was on the eve of an arrangement
which would have been so very much for Con's
good. And Frances, though so submissive in
some points, would not be so, she felt instinctively,
on others. And Markham  that was
the most fundamental shock of all  Markham
might possibly in the future have prospects and
hopes independent altogether of his mother's,
in antagonism with all her arrangements. This,
which she had not anticipated, went to her

heart. And when she thought of what had
been suggested to her with so much composure
the alteration of her whole life, the substitution
of her husband, from whom she had been
so long parted, who did not think as she did
nor live as she did for her son, who, with all
his faults, which she knew so well, was yet
in sympathy with her in all she thought and
wished and knew  this suggestion made her
sick and faint. It had come, though not with
any force, even from Markham himself. It had
come from Sir Thomas, who was one of the
oldest of her friends ; and now Claude set it
before her in all the forcible simplicity of commonplace
: it would be more respectable ! She
laughed almost violently when he left her,
but it was a laugh which was not far from
tears.

"Claude has been complaining of you," she
said to Frances, recovering herself with an
instantaneous effort when her daughter came
into the room ; " but I don't object, my dear.
Unless you had found that you could like him
yourself, which would have been the best thing,
perhaps  you were quite right in what you

said. So far as Constance is concerned, it is
all that I could wish."

'' Mamma," said Frances, " you don't want
Constance  you would not let her  accept
that?"

Accept what ? My love, you must not be
so emphatic. Accept a life full of luxury,
splendour even, if she likes  and every care
forestalled. My dear little girl, you don't
know anything about'* the world."

Frances pondered for some time before she
replied. "Mamma," she said again, "if such
a case arose  you said that the best thing
for me would have been to have liked  Mr
Ramsay. There is no question of that. But
if such a case arose "

"Yes, my dear"  Lady Markham took her
daughter's hand in her own, and looked at her
with a smile of pleasure  " I hope it will some
day. And what then ? "

"Would you  think the same about me?
Would you consider the life full of luxury, as
you said  would you desire for me the same
thing as for Constance ? "

Lady Markham held the girl's hand clasped

in both of hers ; the soft caressing atmosphere
about her enveloped Frances. "My dear," she
said, "this is a very serious question. You are
not asking me for curiosity alone ? "

"It is a very serious question," Frances said.

And the mother and daughter looked at each
other closely, with more meaning, perhaps, than
had as yet been in the eyes of either, notwithstanding
all the excitement of interest in their
first meeting. It was some time before another
word was said. Frances saw in her mother a
woman full of determination, very clear as to
wdiat she wanted, very unlikely to be turned
from it by softer impulses, although outside
she was so tender and soft ; and Lady Markham
saw in Frances a girl who was entirely
submissive, yet immovable, whose dove's eyes
had a steady soft gaze, against which the kindred
light of her own had no power. It was
a mutual revelation. There was no conflict,
nor appearance of conflict, between these two,
so like each other  two gentle and soft voiced
women, both full of natural courtesy and disinclination
to wound or offend ; both seeing
everything around them very clearly from her

own, perhaps limited, point of view ; and both
feeling; that between them nothing but the
absolute truth would do.

'' You trouble me, Frances," said Lady Markham
at length. " When such a case arises,
it will be time enough. In the abstract, I
should of course feel for one as I feel for the
other. Nay, stop a little. I should wish to
provide for you, as for Constance, a life of
assured comfort,  well, if you drive me toit
 of wealth and all that wealth brings.
Assuredly that is what I should wish." She
gave Frances' hand a pressure which was almost
painful, and then dropped it. "I hope you
have no fancy for poverty theoretically, like
your patron saint," she added lightly, trying
to escape from the gravity of the question by
a laugh.

"Mother," said Frances, in a voice which
was tremulous and yet steady, " I want to
tell you  I think neither of poverty nor of
money. I am more used, perhaps, to the one
than the other. I will do what you wish in
everything  everything else ; but "

"Not in the one thing which would probably

be the only thing I asked of you," said Lady
Markham, with a smile. She put her hands
on Frances' shoulders and gave her a kiss upon
her cheek. " My dear child, you probably
think this is quite original," she said ; " but
I assure you it is what almost every daughter
one time or other says to her parents : Anything
else  anything, but Happily there

is no question between you and me. Let us
wait till the occasion arises. It is always time
enough to fall out."

CHAPTER XXXII.

Nothing happened of any importance before
their return to Eaton Square. Markham, hopping
about with a queer sidelong motion he had,
his little eyes screwed up with humorous meaning,
seemed to Frances to recover his spirits
after the Winterbourn episode was over, which
was the subject  though that, of course, she
did not know  of half the voluminous correspondence
of all the ladies and gentlemen in the
house, whose letters were so important a part
of their existence. Before a week was overall
Society was aware of the fact that Ralph
Winterbourn had been nearly dying at Markham
Priory ; that Lady Markham was in " a
state " which baffled description, and Markham
himself so changed as to be scarcely recognisable
; but that, fortunately, the crisis had been

tided over, and everything was still problematical.
But the problem was so interesting,
that one perfumed epistle after another carried
it to curious wits all over the country, and a
new light upon the subject was warmly welcomed
in a hundred Easter meetings. What
would Markham do ? What would Nelly do ?
Would their friendship end in the vulgar way,
in a marriage ? Would they venture, in face
of all prognostications, to keep it up as a friendship,
when there was no longer any reason why
it should not ripen into love ? Or would they,
frightened by all the inevitable comments which
they would have to encounter, stop short altogether,
and fly from each other ?

Such a '' case " is a delightful thing to speculate
upon. At the Priory, it could only be
discussed in secret conclave ; and though no
doubt the experienced persons chiefly concerned
were quite conscious of the subject which occupied
their friends' thoughts, there was no
further reference made to it between them, and
everything went on as it had always done.
The night before their return to town, Markham,
in the solitude of the house, from which

all the guests had just departed, called Frances
outside to bear him company while he smoked
his cigarette. He was walking up and down on
the lawn in the grey stillness of a cloudy warm
evening, when there was no light to speak of
anywhere, and yet a good deal to be seen
through the wavering greyness of sky and sea.
A few stars, very mild and indistinct, looked
out at the edges of the clouds here and there ;
the great water-line widened and cleared towards
the horizon ; and in the far distance,
where a deeper greyness showed the mainland,
the gleam of a lighthouse surprised the dark
by slow continual revolutions. There was no
moon : something softer, more seductive than
even the moon, was in this absence of light.
Well  now they're gone, what do you
think of them, Fan ? They're very good
specimens of the English country-house party
all kinds : the respectable family, the sturdy
old fogy, the rich young man without health,
and the muscular young man without money."
There had been, it is needless to say, various
other members of the party, who, being quite
unimportant to this history, need not be meii-

VOL. II. T

lionel here. " What do you think of them,
little un ? You have your own way of seeing
things."

I  like them all well enough, Markham,"
without enthusiasm Frances replied.

*' That is comprehensive at least. So do I,
my dear. It would not have occurred to me
to say it ; but it is just the right thing to say.
They pull you to pieces almost before your
face; but they are not ill-natured. They tell
all sorts of stories about each other "

"No, Markham ; I don't think that is just."

Without meaning any harm," he went

on. "Fan, in countries where conversation is
cultivated, perhaps people don't talk scandal 
I only say perhaps  but here we are forced to
take to it for want of anything else to say.
What did your Giovanni and Giacomo talk
of in your village out yonder ? " Markham
pointed towards the clear blue-grey line of the
horizon, beyond which lay America, if anything ;
but he meant distance, and that was enough.

"They talked  about the olives, how they
were looking, and if it was going to be a bad
or an indifferent year."

"And then?"

About the forester, if many were coming,
and whether it would be a good season for the
hotels ; and about tying up the palms, to make
them ready for Easter," said Frances, resuming,
with a smile about her lips. "And about how
old Pietro's son had got such a good appointment
in the post-office, and had bought little
Nina a pair of earrings as long as your finger ;
for he was to marry Nina, you know."

Oh, was he ? Go on. I am very much
interested. Didn't they say Mr 
wanted to get out of it, and that there
never would have been any engagement, had
not Miss Nina's mother ? "

Oh Markham," cried Frances in surprise,
"how could you possibly know?"

I was reasoning from analogy, Fan. Yes,
I suppose they do it all the world over. And
it is odd  isn't it?  that, knowing what they
are sure to say, we ask them to our houses, and
put the keys of all our skeleton cupboards into
their hands."

"Do you think that is true, that dreadful
idea about the skeleton ? I am sure "

What are you sure of, my little dear ? "

I was going to say, oh Markham, that 1
was sure, at home, we had no skeleton ; and
then I remembered "

I understand," he said kindly. " It was
not a skeleton to speak of. Fan. There is
nothing particularly bad about it. If you had
met it out walking, you would not have known
it for a skeleton. Let us say a mystery, which
is not such a mouth-filling word."

Sir Thomas told me," said Frances, with
some timidity ; " but I am not sure that I
understood. Markham ! what was it really
about ? "

Her voice was low and diffident, and at first
he only shook his head. "About nothing," he
said ; *' about  me. Yes, more than anything

else, about me. That is how No, it isn't,"

he added, correcting himself. " I always must
have cared for my mother more than for any
woman. She has always been my greatest
friend, ever since I can remember anything.
We seem to have been children together, and
to have grown up together. I was everything
to her for a dozen years, and then  your father

came between us. He hated me  and I tormented
him."

He could not hate you, Markham. Oh no,
no!"

"My little Fan, how can a child like you
understand ? Neither did I understand, when
I was doing all the mischief. Between twelve
and eighteen I was an imp of mischief, a little
demon. It was fun to me to bait that thin-skinned
man, that jumped at everything. The
explosion was fun to me too. I was a little
beast. And then I got the mother to myself
again. Don't kill me, my dear. I am scarcely
sorry now. We have had very good times
since, I with my parent, you with yours  till
that clay," he added, flinging away the end of
his cigarette, " when mischief again prompted
me to let Con know where he was, which
started us all again."

*' Did you always know where we were ? " she
asked. Strangely enough, this story did not
give her any angry feeling towards Markham.
It was so far off, and the previous relations of
her long-separated father and mother were as a
fairy tale to her, confusing and almost incredible,

which lie did not take into account as
matter of fact at all. Markham had delivered
these confessions slowly, as they turned and
re-turned up and down the lawn. There was
not light enough for either to see the expression
in the other s face, and the veil of the darkness
added to the softening effect. The words came
out in short sentences, interrupted by that little
business of puffing at the cigarette, letting it go
out, stopping to strike a fusee and delight it,
which so often forms the byplay of an important
conversation, and sometimes breaks the force
of painful revelations. Frances followed everything
with an absorbed but yet half - dreamy
attention, as if the red glow of the light, the
exclamation of impatience when the cigarette
was found to have gone out, the very perfume
of the fusee in the air, were part and parcel of
it. And the question she asked was almost
mechanical, a part of the business too, striking
naturally from the last thing he had said as
sparks flew from the perfumed light.

Not where," he said. " But I might have
known, had I made any attempt to know. The
mother sent her letters through the lawyer, and

of course we could have found out. It was
thrust upon me at last by one of those meddling
fools that go everywhere. And then my
old demon got possession of me, and I told
Con." Here he gave a low chuckle, which
seemed to escape him in spite of himself. " I
am laughing," he said  " pay attention, Fan 
at myself. Of course I have learned to be
sorry for  some things  the imp has put me
up to ; but I can't get the better of that little
demon  or of this little beggar, if you like it
better. It's queer phraseology, I suppose ; but
I prefer the other form."

And what," said Frances in the same
dreamy way, drawn on, she was not conscious
how, by something in the air, by some current
of thought which she was not aware of  " what
do you mean to do now ? "

He started from her side as if she had given
him a blow. "Do now?" he cried, with something
in his voice that shook off the spell of
the situation, and aroused the girl at once to
the reality of things. She had no guidance of
his looks, for, as has been said, she could not
see them ; but there was a curious thrill in his

voice of present alarm and consciousness, as if
her innocent question struck sharply against
some fact of very different solidity and force
from those far-off shadowy facts which he had
been telling her. "Do now? What makes
you think I am going to do anything at all ? "

His voice fell away in a sort of quaver at the
end of these words.

"I do not think it; I  I  don t think anything,
Markham ; I  don't  know anything."

"You ask very pat questions all the same,
my little Fan. And you have got a pair of
very good eyes of your own in that little head.
And if you have got any light to throw upon
the subject, my dear, produce it ; for I'll be
bothered if I know."

Just then, a window opened in the gloom.
"Children," said Lady Markham's voice, "are
you there ? I think I see something like you,
though it is so dark. Bring your little sister
in, Markham. She must not catch cold on the
eve of going back to town."

"Here is the little thing, mammy. Shall
I hand her in to you by the window ? It
makes me feel very frisky to hear myself addressed

as children," he cried, with his chuckle
of easy laughter. "Here, Fan; run in, my
little dear, and be put to bed."

But he did not go in with her. He kept
outside in the quiet cool and freshness of the
night, illuminating the dim atmosphere now
and then with the momentary glow of another
fusee. Frances from her room, to which she
had shortly retired, heard the sound, and saw
from her windows the, sudden ruddy light a
great many times before she went to sleep.
Markham let his cigar go out oftener than she
could reckon. He was too full of thought to
remember his cigar.

They arrived in town when everybody was
arriving, when even to Frances, in her inexperience,
the rising tide was visible in the
streets, and the air of a new world beginning,
which always marks the commencement of the
season. No doubt it is a new world to many
virgin souls, though so stale and weary to
most of those who tread its endless round.
To Frances everything was new ; and a sense
of the many wonderful things that awaited
her got into the girl's head like ethereal wine,

in spite of all the grave matters of which she
was conscious, which lay under the surface,
and where, if not skeletons in the closet, at
least very serious drawbacks to anything bright
that life could bring. Her knowledge of these
drawbacks had been acquired so suddenly, and
was so little dulled by habit, that it dwelt
upon her mind much more than family mysteries
usually dwell upon a mind of eighteen.
But yet in the rush and exhilaration of new
thoughts and anticipations, always so much
more delicately bright than any reality, she
forgot that all was not as natural, as pleasant, '
as happy as it seemed. If Lady Markham had
any consuming cares, she kept them shut away
under that smiling countenance, which was as
bright and peaceful as the morning. If Markham,
on his side, was perplexed and doubtful,
he came out and in with the same little chuckle
of fun, the same humorous twinkle in his eyes.
When these signs of tranquillity are so apparent,
the young and ignorant can easily makeup
their minds that all is well. And Frances
was to be " presented "  a thought which made
her heart beat. She was to be put into a

court-train and feathers,  she who as yet had
never worn anything but the simple frock
which she had so pleased herself to think
was purely English in its unobtrusiveness and
modesty. She was not quite sure that she
liked the prospect ; but it excited her all the
same.

It was early in May, and the train and the
court plumes where ready, when, going out one
morning upon some small errand of her own,
Frances met some one whom she recognised,
walking slowly along the long line of Eaton
Square. She started at the sight of him,
though he did not see her. He was going along
with a strange air of reluctance, yet anxiety,
glancing up at the houses, no doubt looking-for
Lady Markham's house, so absorbed that
he neither saw Frances nor was disturbed by
the startled movement she made, which must
have caught a less preoccupied eye. She
smiled to herself, after the first start, to see
how entirely bent he was upon finding the
house, and how little attention he had to spare
for anything else. He was even more worn
and pale, or rather grey, than he had been

when he returned from India, she thought ;
and there was in him a slackness, a letting-go
of himself, a weary look in his step and carriage,
which proved, Frances thought, that the
Kiviera had done George Gaunt little good.

For it was certainly George Gaunt, still in
his loose grey Indian clothes, looking like a
man dropped from another hemisphere, investigating
the numbers on the doors as if
he but vaguely comprehended the meaning of
them. But that there was in him that unmistakable
air of soldier which no mufti can
quite disguise, he might have been the Ancient
Mariner in person, looking for the man whose
fate it is to leave all the wedding-feasts of
the world in order to hear that tale. What
tale 'could young Gaunt have to tell? Fora
moment it flashed across the mind of Frances
that he might be bringing bad news, that
something might have happened,"  that rapid
conclusion to which the imagination is so ready
to jump. An accident to her father or Constance
? so bad, so terrible, that it could not
be trusted to a letter, that he had been sent
to break the news to them ?

She had passed him by this time, being shy,
in her surprise, of addressing the stranger all
at once ; but now she paused, and turned with
n momentary intention of running after him
and entreating him to tell her the worst. But
then Frances recollected that this was impossible
; that with the telegraph in active operation,
no one would employ such a lingering way
of conveying news ; and went on again, with
her heart beating quicker, with a heightened
colour, and a restrained impatience and eagerness
of which she was half ashamed. No, she
would not turn back before she had done her
little business. She did not want either the
stranger himself or any one else to divine the
flutter of pleasant emotion, the desire she had
to see and speak with the son of her old
friends. Yes, she said to herself, the son of
her old friends  he who was the youngest,
whom Mrs Gaunt used to talk of for hours,
whose praises she was never weary of singing.

Frances smiled and blushed to herself as she
hurried  perceptibly hurried  about her little
affairs. Kind Mrs Gaunt had always had a
secret longing to bring these two together.

Frances would not turn back ; but she quickened
her pace, almost running  as near running
as was decorous in London  to the lace-shop,
to give the instructions which she had been
charged with. No doubt, she said to herself,
she would find him there when she got back.
She had forgotten, perhaps, the fact that George
Gaunt had given very little of his regard to her
when he met her, though she was his mother's
favourite, and had no eyes but for Constance.
This was not a thing to dwell in the mind of a
girl who had no jealousy in her, and who never
supposed herself to be half as worthy of anybody's
attention as Constance was. But, anyhow,
she forgot it altogether, forgot to ask
herself what in this respect might have happened
in the meantime ; and with her heart
beating full of innocent eagerness, pleasure, and
excitement, full of the hope of hearing about
everybody, of seeing again through his eyes the
dear little well-known world, which seemed to
lie so far behind her, hastened through her
errands, and turned quickly home.

To her great surprise, as she came back,

turning round the corner" into the long line
of pavement, she saw young Gaunt once more
approaching her. He looked even more listless
and languid now, like a man who had tried todo
some duty and failed, and was escaping, glad
to be out of the way of it. This was a great
deal to read in a man's face ; but Frances was
highly sympathetic, and divined it, knowing in
herself many of those devices of shy people,
which shy persons divine. Fortunately she
saw him some way off, and had time to overcome
her own shyness and take the initiative.
She went up to him fresh as the May morning,
blushing and smiling, and put out her hand.
'' Captain Gaunt ? " she said. " I knew I could
not be mistaken. Oh, have you just come from
Bordighera ? I am so glad to see any one from
home ! "

"Do you call it home, Miss Waring? Yes,
I have just come. I  I  have a number of

messages, and some parcels, and But I

thought you might perhaps be out of town,
or busy, and that it would be best to send
them."

Is that why you are turning your back on
my mother's house ? or did you not know the
number ? I saw you before, looking  but I did
not like to speak."

"I  thought you might be out of town," he
repeated, taking no notice of her question ;
"and that perhaps the post "

Oh no," cried Frances, whose shyness was
of the cordial kind. "Now you must come
back and see mamma. She will want to hear
all about Constance. Are they all well, Captain
Gaunt ? Of course you must have seen
them constantly  and Constance. Mamma will
want to hear everything."

Miss Waring is very well," he said with a
blank countenance, from which he had done his
best to dismiss all expression.

"And papa? and dear Mrs Gaunt, and the
colonel, and everybody? Oh, there is so much
that letters can't tell. Come back now with me.
My mother will be so glad to see you, and Markham
; you know Markham already."

Young Gaunt made a feeble momentary resistance.
He murmured something' about an

engagement, about his time being very short ;
but as he did so, turned round languidly and
went with her, obeying, as it seemed, the eager
impulse of Frances rather than any will of his
own.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

x4.FTER this, for about a fortnight, Captain Gaunt
was very often visible in Eaton Square. He
dined next evening with Lady Markham and
Frances  Sir Thomas, who scarcely counted, he
was so often there, being the only other guest.
Sir Thomas was a man who had a great
devotion for Lady Markham, and a very distant
link of cousinship, which, or something
in themselves which made that impossible,
had silenced any remark of gossip, much less
scandal, upon their friendship. He came in to
luncheon whenever it pleased him ; he dined
there  when he was not dining anywhere else.
But as both he and Lady Markham had many
engagements, this was not too often the case,
though there was rarely an evening, if the
ladies were at home, when Sir Thomas did

not 'look in." His intimacy was like that
of a brother in the cheerful easy house. This
cheerful company, the friendliness, the soothing
atmosphere of feminine sympathy around him,
and underneath all the foolish hope, more sweet
than anything else, that a certain relenting on
the part of Constance must be underneath, took
away the gloom and dejection, in great part
at least, from the young soldier's looks. He
exerted himself to please the people who were
so kind to him, and his melancholy smile
had begun to brighten into something more
natural. Frances, for her part, thought him a
very delightful addition to the party. She
looked at him across the table almost with
the pride which a sister might have felt when
he made a good appearance and did himself
credit. He seemed to belong to her more or
less,  to reflect upon her the credit which he
gained. It showed that her friends after all
were worth thinking of, that they were not
unworthy of the admiration she had for them,
that they were able to hold their own in what
the people here called Society and the world.
She raised her little animated face to young

Gaunt, was the first to see what he meant,
unconsciously interpreted or explained for him
when he was hazy  and beamed with delight
when Lady Markham was interested and
amused. Poor Frances was not always quite
clever enough to see when it happened that
the two elders were amused by the man himself,
rather than by what he said  and her
gratification was great in his success. She
herself had never aspired to success in her
own person ; but it was a great pleasure to
her that the little community at Bordighera
should be vindicated and put in the best light.
"They will never be able to say to me now
that we had no Society, that we saw nobody,"
Frances said to herself  attributing, however, a
far greater brilliancy to poor George than he
ever possessed. He fell back into melancholy,
however, when the ladies left, and Sir Thomas
found him dull. He had very little to say
about Waring, on whose behalf the benevolent
baronet was so much interested.

"Do you think he shows any inclination towards
home ? " Sir Thomas asked.

I am sure," young Gaunt answered, with a

solemn face, " that there is nothing there that
can satisfy such a creature as that."

*' He has no society, then ? " asked Sir
Thomas.

Oh, society ! it is like the poem," said the
young man, with a sigh. '' I should think it
would be so everywhere. ' Ye common people
of the sky, what are ye when your queen is
nigh ? ' "

Sir Thomas had been much puzzled by the
application to Waring, as he supposed, of the
phrase, " such a creature as that ; " but now he
perceived, with a compassionate shake of his
head, what the poor young fellow meant. Con
had been at her tricks again ! He said, with
the pitying look which such a question warranted,
" I suppose you are very fond of
poetry ? "

"No," said the young soldier, astonished,
looking at him suddenly. " Oh no. I am
afraid I am very ignorant ; but sometimes
it expresses what nothing else can express.
Don't you think so ? "

"I think perhaps it is time to join the ladies,"
Sir Thomas said. He was sorry for the boy,

tliougli a little contemptuous too ; but then he
himself had known Con and her tricks from her
cradle, and those of many another, and he was
hardened. He thought their mothers had been
far more attractive women.

Was it the same art which made Frances
look up with that bright look of welcome, and
almost affectionate interest, when they returned
to the drawing-room ? Sir Thomas liked her
so much, that he hoped it was not merely one
of their tricks ; then paused, and said to himself
that it would be better if it were so, and not that
the girl had really taken a fancy to this young
fellow, whose heart and head were both full of
another, and who, even without that, would
evidently be a very poor thing for Lady Markham's
daughter. Sir Thomas was so far unjust
to Frances, that he concluded it must be one of
her tricks, when he recollected how complacent
she had been to Claude Ramsay, finding places
for him where he could sit out of the draught.
They were all like that, he said to himself ; but
concluded that, as one nail drives out another,
a second "affair," if he could be drawn into it,
might cure the victim. This rapid resume of

all the circumstances, present and future, is a
thing which may well take place in an experienced
mind in the moment of entering a
room in which there are materials for the
development of a new chapter in the social
drama. The conclusion he came to led him
to the side of Lady Markham, who was waiting
the address upon one of her many notes. " It
is to Nelly Winterbourn," she explained, "to

inquire You know they have dragged

that poor sufferer up to town, to be near the
best advice ; and he is lying more dead than
alive."

"Perhaps it is not very benevolent, so far ashe
is concerned ; but I hope he'll linger a longtime,"
said Sir Thomas.

"Oh, so do I! These imbroglios may goon
for a long time and do nobody any harm.
But when a horrible crisis comes, and one feels
that they must be cleared up ! " It was evident
that in this Lady Markham was not specially
considering the sufferings of poor Mr Winter-bourn.


What does Markham say ? " Sir Thomas
asked.

Say ! He does not say anything. He
shuffles  you know the way he has. He
never could stand still upon both of his
feet."

"And you can't guess what he means todo
? "

'I think But who can tell? even with

one whom I know so intimately as Markham.
I don't say even in my son, for that does not
tell for very much."

*' Nothing at all," said the social philosopher.

"Oh, a little, sometimes. I believe to a
certain extent in a kind of magnetic sympathy.
You don't, I know. I think, then, so far as I
can make out, that Markham would rather do
nothing at all. He likes the status quo well
enough. But then he is only one ; and the
other  one cannot tell how she might feel."

"Nelly is the unknown quantity," said Sir
Thomas ; and then Lady Markham sent away,
by the hands of the footman, her anxious
affectionate little billet "to inquire."

Meanwhile young Gaunt sat down by
Frances. On the table near them there was
a glorious show of crimson  the great dazzling

red anemones, the last of the season, which Mrs
Gaunt had sent. It had been very difficult to
find them so late on, he told her ; they had
hunted into the coolest corners where the
spring flowers lingered the longest, his mother
quite anxious about it, climbing into the little
valleys among the hills. " For you know
what you are to my mother," he said, with a
smile, and then a sigh. Mrs Gaunt had often
made disparaging comparisons  comparisons
how utterly out of the question ! He allowed
to himself that this candid countenance, so
open and simple, and so full of sympathy, had
a charm  more than he could have believed;
but yet to make a comparison between this
sister and the other ! Nevertheless it was
very consolatory, after the effort he had made
at dinner, to lay himself back in the soft low
chair, with his long limbs stretched out, and
talk or be talked to, no longer with any
effort, with a softening tenderness towards the
mother who loved Frances, but with whom he
had had many scenes before he left her, in
frantic defence of the woman who had broken
his heart.

Mrs Gaunt was always so kind to me,"
Frances said, gratefully, a little moisture starting
into her eyes. " At the Durants' there
seemed always a little comparison with Tasie ;
but with your mother there was no comparison."


A comparison with Tasie ! " He laughed in
spite of himself. " Nothing can be so foolish
as these comparisons," he added, not thinking
of Tasie.

"Yes, she was older," said Frances. "She
had a right to be more clever. But it was
always delightful at the bungalow. Does my
father go there often now ? "

Did he ever go often ? "

N-no," said Frances, hesitating ; " but sometimes
in the evening. I hope Constance makes
him  go out. I used to have to worry him,
and often get scolded. No, not scolded  that
was not his way ; but sent off with a sharp
word. And then he would relent, and come
out."

I have not seen very much of Mr Waring,"
Gaunt said.

"Then what does Constance do? Oh, it

must be such a change for her ! I could not
have imagined such a change. I can't help
thinking sometimes it is a great pity that I,
who was not used to it, nor adapted for it,
should have all this  and Constance, who likes
it, who suits it, should be  banished ; for it
must be a sort of banishment for her, don't
you think ? "

I  suppose so. Yes, there could be no
surroundings too bright for her," he said, dreamily.
He seemed to see her, notwithstanding,
walking with him up into the glades of the
olive-gardens, with her face so bright. Surely
she had not felt her banishment then ! Or
was it only that the amusement of breaking
his heart made up for it, for the moment, as
his mother said ?

*' Fancy," said Frances; "I am going to
court on Monday  I  in a train and feathers.
What would they all say? But all the time
I am feeling like the daw in the peacock's
plumes. They seem to belong to Constance.
She would wear them as if she were a queen
herself. She would not perhaps object to be
stared at ; and she would be admired."

Oh yes ! "

She was, they say, when she was presented,
so much admired. She might have been a
maid of honour ; but mamma would not. And
I, a poor little brown sparrow, in all the fine
feathers  I feel inclined to call out, ' I am
only Frances.' But that is not needed, is
it, when any one looks at me ? " she said,
with a laugh. She had met with nobody with
whom she could be confidential among; all her
new acquaintances. And George Graunt was
a new acquaintance too, if she had but remembered
; but there was in him something which
she had been used to, something with which
she was familiar, a breath of her former life
and that acquaintance with his name and
all about him which makes one feel like an
old friend. She had expected for so many
years to see him, that it appeared to her imagination
as if she had known him all these
years  as if there was scarcely any one with
whom she was so familiar in the world.

He looked at her attentively as she spoke,
a little touched, a little charmed by this instinctive
delicate familiarity, in which he at

last, having so lately come out of the hands
of a true operator, saw, whatever Sir Thomas
might think, that it was not one of their tricks.
She did not want any compliment from him,
even had he been capable of giving it. She
was as sincere as the day, as little troubled
about her inferiority as she was convinced of
it ; the laugh with which she spoke had in ita
genuine tone of innocent youthful mirth, such
as had not been heard in that house for long.
The exhilarating ring of it, so spontaneous, so
gay, reached Lady Markham and Sir Thomas
in their colloquy, and roused them. Frances
herself had never laughed like that before.
Her mother gave a glance towards her, smiling.
The little thing has found her own character
in the sight of her old friend," she said ; and
then rounded her little epigram with a sigh.

The young fellow ought to think much
of himself to have two of them taking that
trouble."

*' Don't talk nonsense," said Lady Markham.
Do you think she is taking trouble ? She
does not understand what it means."

"Do any of them not understand what it

means?" asked Sir Thomas. He had a large
experience in Society, and thought he knew ;
but he had little experience out of Society, and
so, perhaps, did not. There are some points
in which a woman's understanding is the best.
The evening had not been unpleasant to anyone,
not even, perhaps, to the lovelorn, when
Markham appeared, coming back from his ,
a signal to the other gentlemen that
it was time for them to disappear from theirs.
He crave his mother the last news of 
; and he told Sir Thomas that a division
was expected, and that he ought to be in the
House. " The poor sufferer " was sinking slowly,
Markham said. It was quite impossible now
to think of the operation which might perhaps
have saved him three months since. His sister
was with Nelly, who had neither mother nor
sister of her own ; and the long-expected event
was thus to come off decorously, with all the
proper accessories. It was a very important
matter for two at least of the speakers; but
this was how they talked of it, hiding, perhaps,
the anxiety within. Then Markham turned
to the other group.

Have you got all the feathers and the furbelows
ready?" he said. "Do you think there
will be any of you visible through them, little
Fan ? "

Don't frighten the child, Markham. She
will do very well. She can be as steady asa
little rock : and in that case it doesn't matter
that she is not tall."

'' Oh, tall  as if that were necessary 1 You
are not tall yourself, our mother ; but you area
very majestic person when you are in your
war-paint."

There's the Queen herself, for that matter,"
said Sir Thomas. " See her in a procession,
and she might be six feet. I feel a mouse
before her." He had held once some post
about the court, and had a right to speak.

'let us hope Fan will look majestic too.
You should, to carry off the effect I shall
produce. In ordinary life," said Markham,
I don't flatter myself that I am an Adonis ;
but you should see me screwed up into a
uniform. No, I'm not in the army. Fan.
What is my uniform, mother, to please her?
A Deputy Lieutenant, or something of that

sort. I hope you are a great deal the wiser,
Fan."

People always look well in uniform," said
Frances, looking at him somewhat doubtfully,
on which Markham broke forth into his chuckle.
"Wait till you see me, my little dear. Wait
till the little boys see me on the line of route.
They are the true tests of personal attraction.
Are you coming, Gaunt ? Do you feel inclined
to give those fellows their revenge ? "

Markham had spoken rather low, and at some
distance from his mother ; but the word caught
her quick ear.

Revenge ? What do you mean by revenge
? Who is going to be revenged ? " she
cried.

Nobody is going to fight a duel, if that is
what you mean," said Markham, quietly turning
round. " Gaunt has, for as simple as he
stands there, beaten me at billiards, and I can't
stand under the affront. Didn't you lick me,
Gaunt ? "

It was an accident," said Gaunt. " If that
is all, you are very welcome to your revenge."

"Listen to his modesty, which, by-the-by,
VOL. III. c

shows a little want of tact ; for am I the man
to be beaten by an accident ? " said Markham,
with his chuckle of self-ridicule. '' Come along,
Gaunt."

Lady Markham detained Sir Thomas with
a look as he rose to accompany them. She
gave Captain Gaunt her hand, and a gracious,
almost anxious smile. "Markham is noted forbad
hours," she said. 'you are not very
strong, and you must not let him beguile you
into his evil ways." She rose too, and took
Sir Thomas by the arm as the young man went
away. " Did you hear what he said ? Do you
think it was only billiards he meant ? My
heart quakes for that poor boy and the poor
people he belongs to. Don't you think you
could go after them and see what they are
about ? "

"I will do anything you please. But what
good could I do ? " said Sir Thomas. " Markham
would not put up with any interference
from me  nor the other young fellow either,
for that matter."

'' But if you were there, if they saw you
about, it would restrain them : oh, you have

always been such a true friend. If you were
but there."

'' There : where ? " There came before the
practical mind of Sir Thomas a vision of himself,
at his sober age, dragged into he knew not
what nocturnal haunts, like an elderly spectre,
jeered at by the pleasure-makers. " I will do
anything to please you," he said, helplessly.
But what can I do ? It would be of no use.
You know yourself that interference never does
any good."

Frances stood by aghast, listening to this
conversation. What did it mean ? Of what
was her mother afraid ? Presently Lady Markham
took her seat again, with a return to her
usual smiling calm. " You are right, and I am
wrong," she said. " Of course wee can do
nothing. Perhaps, as you say, there is no
real reason for anxiety." (Frances observed,
however, that Sir Thomas had not said this.)
It is because the boy is not well off, and his
people are not well off  old soldiers, with their
pensions and their savings. That is what
makes me fear."

"Oh, if that is the case, you need have the

less alarm. Where there's not much to lose,
the risks are lessened," Sir Thomas said, calmly.

When he too was gone, Frances crept close
to her mother. She knelt down beside the
chair on which Lady Markham sat, grave and
pale, with agitation in her face. "Mother,"
she whispered, taking her hand and pressing
her cheek against it, " Markham is so kind he
never would do poor George any harm."

Oh, my dear," cried Lady Markham, " how
can you tell ? Markham is not a man to be
read off like a book. He is very kind  which
does not hinder him from being cruel too. He
means no harm, perhaps ; but when the harm
is done, what does it matter whether he meant
it or not ? And as for the risks being lessened
because your friend is poor, that only means
that he is despatched all the sooner. Markham
is like a man with a fever : he has
his fits of play, and one of them is on him
now."

Do you mean  gambling ? " said Frances,
growing pale too. She did not know very
well what gambling was, but it was ruin, she
had always heard.

Don't let us talk of it," said Lady Markham.
" We can do no good ; and to distress
ourselves for what we cannot prevent is the
worst policy in the world, everybody says.
You had better go to bed, dear child ; I have
some letters to write."

CHAPTER XXXV.

Gaunt did not appear again at Eaton Square
for two or three days.  not, indeed, till after
the great event of Frances' history had taken
place  the going to court, which had filled her
with so many alarms.  After all, when she got
there, she was not frightened at all, the sense
of humour which was latent in her nature
getting the mastery at the last moment, and
the spectacle, such as it was, taking all her
attention from herself. Lady Markham's good
taste had selected for Frances as simple a dress
as was possible, and her ornaments where the
pearls which her aunt had given her, which
she had never been able to look at, save
uneasily, as spoil. Mrs Clarendon, however,
condescended, which was a wonderful stretch
of good-nature, to come to Eaton Square to

see her dressed, which, as everybody knows,
is one of the most agreeable parts of the ceremony.
Frances had not a number of young
friends to fill the house with a chorus of admiration
and criticism ; but the Miss Montague
thought it " almost a duty " to come, and a
number of her mother's friends. These ladies
filled the drawing-room, and were much more
formidable than even the eyes of Majesty, preoccupied
with the sight of many toilets, and
probably very tired of them, which would have
no more than a passing glance for Frances.
The spectators at Eaton Square took her to
pieces conscientiously, though they agreed,
after each had made her little observation,
that the ejisemhle was perfect, and that the
power of millinery could no further go. The
intelligent reader needs not to be informed
that Frances was all white, from her feathers
to her shoes. Her pretty glow of youthfulness
and expectation made the toilet supportable,
nay, pretty, even in the glare of day.
Markham, who was not afraid to confront all
these fair and critical faces, in his uniform,
which misbehave, and did not even fit him.

and which made his insignificance still more
apparent, walked round and round his little
sister with the most perfect satisfaction. " Are
you sure you know how to manage that train,
little Fan? Do you feel quite up to your
curtsey ? " he said in a whisper with his
chuckle of mirth ; but there was a very tender
look in the little man's eyes. He might wrong
others ; but to Frances, nobody could be more
kind or considerate. Mrs Clarendon, when
she saw him, turned upon her heel and walked
off into the back drawing-room, where she stood
for some minutes sternly contemplating a picture,
and ignoring everybody. Markham did
not resent this insult. " She can't abide me,
Fan," he went on. " Poor lady, I don't
wonder. I was a little brat when she knew
me first. As soon as I go away, she will come
back ; and I am going presently, my dear.
I am going to snatch a morsel in the diningroom,
to sustain nature. I hope you had your
sandwiches. Fan ? It will take a great deal of
nourishment to keep you up to that curtsey."
He patted her softly on her white shoulder,
with kindness beaming out of his ugly face.

I call you a most satisfactory production, my
dear. Not a beauty, but better  a real nice
innocent girl. I should like any fellow to show
me a nicer," he went on, with his short laugh.
Though it took the form of a chuckle, there
was something in it that showed Markham's
heart was touched. And this was the man
whom even his own mother was afraid to trust
a young man with ! It seemed to Frances that
it was impossible such a thing could be true.

Mrs Clarendon, as Markham had predicted,
came back as he retired. Her contemplation
of the dress of the debutante was very critical.
Satin is too heavy for you," she said. " I
wonder your mother did not see that silk
would have been far more in keeping ; but
she always liked to overdo. As for my Lord
Markham, I am glad he will have to look after
your mother, and not you, Frances ; for the
very look of a man like that contaminates a
young girl. Don't say to me that he is your
brother, for he is not your brother. Considering
my age and yours, I surely ought to know
best. Turn round a little. There is a perceptible
crease across the middle of your shoulder,

and I don't quite like the hang of this skirt.
But one thing looks very well, and that is
your pearls. They have been in the family I
can't tell you how long. My grandmother
gave them to me."

"Mamma insisted I should wear them, and
nothing else, aunt Caroline."

"Yes, I daresay. You have nothing else
good enough to go with them, most likely.
And Lady Markham knows a good thing very
well, when she sees it. Have you been put
through all that you have to do, Frances?
Eemember to keep your right hand quite free ;
and take care your train doesn't get in your
way. Oh, why is it that your poor father is
not here to see you, to go with you ! It
would be a very different thing then."

Nothing would make papa go, aunt Caroline.
Do you think he would dress himself
up like Markham, to be laughed at ? "

I promise you nobody would laugh at my
brother," said Mrs Clarendon. "As for Lord
Markham " But she bit her lip, and forbore.
She spoke to none of the other ladies,
who swarmed like numerous bees in the room,

keeping up a hum in the air; but she made
very formal acknowledgments to Lady Markham
as she went away. " I am much obliged
to you for letting me come to see Frances
dressed. She looks very well on the whole,
though, perhaps, I should have adopted a different
style had it been in my hands."

My dear Caroline," cried Lady Markham,
ignoring this ungracious conclusion, "how can
sou speak of letting you come ? You know
we are only too glad to see you whenever you
will come. And I hope you liked the effect
of your beautiful pearls. What a charming
present to give the child ; I thought it so
kind of you."

So long as Frances understands that they
are family ornaments," said Mrs Clarendon,
stiffly, rejecting all acknowledgments.

There was a little murmur and titter when
she went away. "Is it Medusa in person ? "
"It is Mrs Clarendon, the wife of the great
Q.C." " It is Frances' aunt, and she does not
like any remark." "It is my dear sister-in-law,"
said Lady Markham. " She does not love
me; but she is kind to Frances, which covers

a multitude of sins." " And very rich," said
another lady, " which covers a multitude more."
This put a little bitterness into the conversation
to Frances, standing there in her fine
clothes, and not knowing how to interfere ;
and it was a relief to her when Markham,
though she could not blame the whispering
girls who called him a guy, came in shuffling
and smiling;, with a glance and nod of encouragement
to his little sister to take the mother
downstairs to her carriage. After that, all
was a moving phantasmagoria of colour and
novel life, and nothing clear.

And it was not until after this great day
that Captain Gaunt appeared again. The
ladies received him with reproaches for his
absence. "I expected to see you yesterday
at least," said Lady Markham. "You don't
care for fine clothes, as we women do ; but
five o'clock tea, after a Drawing-room, is a
fine sight. You have no idea how grand we
were, and how much you have lost."

Captain Gaunt responded with a very grave,
indeed melancholy smile. He was even more
dejected than when he made his first appearance.

Then his melancholy had been unalloyed,
and not without something of that
tragic satisfaction in his own sufferings which
the victims of the heart so often enjoy. But
now there were complications of some kind,
not so easily to be understood. He smiled a
very serious evanescent smile. "I shall have
to lose still more," he said, " for I think I must
leave London  sooner than I thought."

Oh," cried Frances, whom this concerned
the most ; " leave London ! You were to stay
a month."

"Yes; but my month seems to have runaway
before it has begun," he said, confusedly.
Then, finding Lady Markham's eye upon him,
he added, " I mean, things are very different
from what I expected. My father thought I
might do myself good by seeing people who
might push me, he supposed. I am not
good at pushing myself," he said, with an
abrupt and harsh laugh.

I understand that. You are too modest.
It is a defect, as well as the reverse one of
being too bold. And you have not met  the
people you hoped ? "

"It is not exactly that either. My father's
old friends have been kind enough ; but London
perhaps is not the place for a poor soldier." He
stopped, with again a little quiver of a smile.

"That is quite true," said Lady Markham,
gravely. " I enter into your feelings. You
don't think that the game is worth the candle ?
I have heard so many people say so  even
among those who were very well able to push
themselves. Captain Gaunt. I have heard
them say that any little thing they might
have gained was not worth the expenditure
and trouble of a season in London  besides
all the risks."

Captain Gaunt listened to this with his discouraged
look. He made no reply to Lady
Markham, but turned to Frances with a sort
of smile. "Do you remember," he said, "I
told you my mother had found a cheap place
in Switzerland, such as she delights in ? I
think I shall go and join them there."

Oh, I am very sorry," said Frances, with a
countenance of unfeigned regret. " No doubt
Mrs Gaunt will be glad to have you ; but she
will be sorry too. Don't you think she would

rather you stayed your full time in Lonclou,
and enjoyed yourself a little ? I feel sure she
would like that best."

"But I don't think I am enjoying myself,"
he said, with the air of a man who would like
to be persuaded. He had perhaps been a little
piqued by Lady Markham's way of taking him
at his word.

There must be a great deal to enjoy," said
Frances ; " every one says so. They think
there is no place like London. You cannot
have exhausted everything in a week. Captain
Gaunt. You have not given it a fair trial.
Your mother and the General, they would
not like you to run away."

Run away I no," he said, with a little start ;
that is what I should not do."

"But it would be running away," said
Frances, with all the zeal of a partisan. " You
think you are not doing any good, and you
forget that they wished you to have a little
pleasure too. They think a great deal of
London. The General used to talk to me,
when I thought I should never see it. He
used to tell me to wait till I had seen London ;

everything was there. And it is not often you
have the chance, Captain Gaunt. It may be a
long time before you come from India again ;
and think if you told any one out there you
had only been a week in town ! "

He listened to her very devoutly, with an
air of giving great weight to those simple
arguments. They were more soothing to his
pride, at least, than the way in which her mother
took him at his word.

Frances speaks," said Lady Markham  and
while she spoke, the sound of Markham's
hansom was heard dashing up to the door 
Frances speaks as if she were in the interest
of all the people who prey upon visitors in
London. I think, on the whole, Captain
Gaunt, though I regret your going, that my
reason is with you rather than with her. And,
my dear, if Captain Gaunt thinks this is right,
it is not for his friends to persuade him against
his better judgment."

"AYhat is Gaunt's better judgment going todo
? " said Markham. '' It's always alarming to
hear of a man's better judgment. What is it
all about ? "

Lady Markham looked up in lier son's face
with great seriousness and meaning. "Captain
Gaunt," she said, "is talking of leaving London,
which  if he finds his stay unprofitable
and of little advantage to him  though I should
regret it very much, I should think him wise
to do."

Gaunt leaving London ? Oh no ! He is
taking you in. A man who is a ladies' man
likes to say that to ladies in order to be coaxed
to stay. That is at the bottom of it, I'll be
bound. And where was our hero going, if he
had his way ? "

Frances thought that there were sirens in
Gaunt of failing temper, so she hastened to
explain. " He was going to Switzerland, Markham,
to a place Mrs Gaunt knows of, where she
is to be."

To Switzerland ! " Markham cried  " the
dullest place on the face of the earth. What
would you do there, my gallant Captain ?
Climb?  or listen all day long to those who
recount their climbing, or those who plan
them  all full of insane self-complacency, as
if there was the highest morality in climbing

VOL. III. D

mountains. Were you going in for the mountains,
Fan ? "

"Frances was pleading for London  a very-unusual
fancy for her," said Lady Markham.
The very young are not afraid of responsibility
; but I am, at my age. I could not
venture to recommend Captain Gaunt to
stay."

' 1 only meant  I only thought " Frances

stammered and hung her head a little. Had
she been indiscreet ? Her abashed look caught
young Gaunt's eye. Why should she be
abashed?  and on his account? It made his
heart stir a little, that heart which had been so
crushed and broken, and, he thought, pitched
away into a corner; but at that moment he
found it again stirring quite warm and vigorous
in his breast.

"I always said she was full of sense," said
Markham. " A little sister is an admirable
institution ; and her wisdom is all the more
delightful that she doesn't know what sense it
is." He patted Frances on the shoulder as he
spoke. " It wouldn't do, would it. Fan, to have
him run away ? "

If there was any question of that," Gaunt
said, with something of a defiant air.

"And to Switzerland," said Markham, with
a chuckle. " Shall I tell you my experiences.
Gaunt ? I was there for my sins once, with
the mother here. Among all her admirable
qualities, my mamma has that of demanding
few sacrifices in this way  so that a man is
bound in honour to make one now and then."

Markham, when you are going to say what
you know I will disapprove, you always put ina
little flattery  which silences me."

He kissed his hand to her with a short laugh.
The place," he said, " was in possession of an
athletic band, in roaring spirits and tremendous
training, men and women all the same. You
could scarcely tell the creatures one from
another  all burned red in the faces of them,
worn out of all shape and colour in the clothes
of them. They clamped along the passages in
their big boots from two o'clock till five every
morning. They came back, perspiring, in the
afternoon  a procession of old clothes, all complacent,
as if they had done the finest action
in the world. And the rest of us surrounded

UNlVERSIft Or iU

them with a circle of worshippers, till they
clamped up-stairs again, fortunately very early,
to bed. Then a faint sort of life began for
nous autres. We came out and admired the
stars and drank our coffee in peace  short-lived
peace, for, as everybody had been up at two in
the morning, the poor beggars naturally wanted
to get to bed. You are an athletic chap, so
you might like it, and perhaps attain canonisation
by going up Mont Blanc."

My mother  is not in one of those mountain
centres," said Gaunt, with a faint smile.

Worse and worse," said Markham. " We
went through that experience too. In the non-climbing
places the old ladies have it all their
own way. You will dine at two, my poor
martyr; you will have tea at six, with cold
meat. The table-cloths and napkins will last
a week. There will be honey with flies in it
on every table. All about the neighbourhood,
mild constitutional weill meet you at every
hour in the day. There will be gentle raptures
over a new view ' Have you seen it. Captain
Gaunt ? Do come with us tomorrow and let
us show it you ; quite the finest view '  of

Pilatiis, or Monte Rosa, or the Jungfrau, or
whatever it may happen to be. And meanwhile
we shall all be playing our little game
comfortably at home. We will give you a
thought now and then. Frances will run to
the window and say, ' I thought that was
Captain Gaunt's step ; ' and the mother will
explain to Sir Thomas, ' Such a pity our poor
young friend found that London did not suit
him'"

Well, Markham, " said his mother, with
firmness, " if Captain Gaunt found that London
did not suit him, I should think all the more
highly of him that he withdrew in time."

Perhaps the note was too forcibly struck.
Gaunt drew himself slightly up. " There is
nothing so very serious in the matter, after all.
London may not suit me ; but still I do not
suppose it will do me any harm."

Frances looked on at this triangular duel
with eyes that acquired gradually consciousness
and knowledge. She saw ere long; that there
was much more in it than met the eye. At
first, her appeal to young Gaunt to remain had
been made on the impulse of the moment, and

without thought. Now she remained silent,
only with a faint gesture of protest when Markham
brought in her name.

"Let us go to luncheon," said her mother.
I am glad to hear you are not really in
earnest, Captain Gaunt ; for of course we
should all be very sorry if you went away.
London is a siren to whose wiles we all give
in. I am as bad myself as any one can be.
I never make any secret of my affection for
town ; but there are some with whose constitutions
it never agrees, who either take it
too seriously or with too much passion. We
old stagers get very moderate and methodical
in our dissipations, and make a little go a long
way."

But there was a chill at table ; and Lady
Markham was " not in her usual force." Sir
Thomas, who came in as usual as they were
going down-stairs, said, "Anything the matter?
Oh, Captain Gaunt going away. Dear me, so
soon ! I am surprised. It takes a great deal
of self-control to make a young fellow leave
town at this time of the year."

"It was only a project," said poor young

Gaunt. He was pleased to be persuaded that
it was more than could be expected of him.
Lady Markham gave Sir Thomas a look which
made that devoted friend uncomfortable; but
he did not know what he had done to deserve
it. And so Captain Gaunt made up his mind
to stay.

CHAPTEK XXXVI.

Yes, I wish you had not said anything,
Frances : not that it matters very much. I
don't suppose he was in earnest, or, at all
events, he would have changed his mind before
evening. But, my dear, this poor young fellow
is not able to follow the same course as Markham's
friends do. They are at it all the year
round, now in town, now somewhere else.
They bet and play, and throw their money
about, and at the end of the year they are not
very much the worse  or at least that is what
he always tells me. One time they lose, but
another time they gain. And then they are
men who have time, and money more or less.
But when a young man with a little money
comes among them, he may ruin himself before
he knows."

I am very sorry," said Frances. "It is
difficult to believe that Markliam could hurt
any one."

Her mother gave her a grateful look. " Dear
Markham ! " she said. " To think that he

should be so good  and yet It gives me

great pleasure, Frances, that you should appreciate
your brother. Your father never did so

and all of them, all the Warings But

it is understood between us, is it not, that weare
not to touch upon that subject ? "

"Perhaps it would be painful, mamma.
But how am I to understand unless I am
told?"

"You have never been told, then  your

father ? But I might have known he

would say very little ; he always hated explanations.
My dear," said Lady Markham, with
evident agitation, " if I were to enter into that
story, it would inevitably take the character
of a self-defence, and I can't do that to my
own child. It is the worst of such unfortunate
circumstances as ours that you must judge your
parents, and find one or other in the wrong.
Oh yes ; I do not deceive myself on that

subject. And you are a partisan in your
nature. Con was more or less of a cynic,
as people become wbo are bred up in Society,
as she was. She could believe we were both
wrong, calmly, without any particular feeling.
But you,  of your nature, Frances, you would
be a partisan."

I hope not, mamma. I should be the partisan
of both sides," said Frances, almost under
her breath.

Lady Markham rose and gave her a kiss.
Remain so," she said, " my dear child. I will
say no harm of him to you, as T am sure he has
said no harm of me. Now let us think no
more of Markham's faults, nor of poor young
Gaunt's danger, nor of "

Danger?" said Frances, with an anxious look.

"If it were less than danger, would I have
said so much, do sou think ? "

But, mamma, pardon me,  if it is real
danger, ought you not to say more ? "

What ! for the sake of another woman's son,
betray and forsake my own ? How can I say
to him in so many words, ' Take care of Markham
; avoid Markham and his friends.' I have

said it in hints as much as I dare. Yes, Frances,
I would do a great deal for another woman's
son. It would be the strongest plea. But in
this case how can I do more ? Never mind ;
fate will work itself out quite independent of
you and me. And here are people coming 
Claude, probably, to see if you have changed
your mind about him, or whether I have heard
from Constance. Poor boy ! he must have one
of you two."

I hope not," said Frances, seriously.

But I am sure of it," cried her mother, with
a smile. "We shall see which of us is the
better prophet. But this is not Claude. I hear
the sweep of a woman's train. Hush 1 " she
said, holding up a finger. She rose as the door
opened, and then hastened forward with an
astonished exclamation, " Nelly ! " and held out
both her hands.

You did not look for me ? " said Mrs
Winterbourn, with a defiant air.

No, indeed ; I did not look for you. And
so fine, and looking so well. He must have
taken an unexpected turn for the better, and
you have come to tell me."

Yes, am I not smart ? " said Nelly, looking
clown upon her beautiful dress with a curious
air, half pleasure, half scorn. "It is almost
new ; I have never worn it before."

Sit down here beside me, my dear, and tell
me all about it. When did this happy change
occur J

Happy ? For whom ? " she asked, with a
harsh little laugh. " No, Lady Markham, there
is no change for the better : the other way 
they say there is no hope. It will not be very
long, they say, before "

And Nelly, Nelly ! you here, in your fine
new dress."

"Yes; it seems ridiculous, does it not?" she
said, laughing again. "I away  going out to
pay visits in my best gown, and my husband 
dying. Well ! I know that if I had stayed any
longer in that dreary house without any air,
and with Sarah Winterbourn, I should have
died. Oh, you don't know what it is. To be
shut up there, and never hear a step except the
doctor's, or Robert's carrying up the beef tea.
So I burst out of prison, to save my life. You

may blame me if you like, but it was to save
my life, neither less nor more."

Nelly, my dear," said Lady Markham,
taking lier hand, "there is nothing wonderful
in your coming to see so old a friend as I am.
It is quite natural. To whom should you go in
your trouble, if not to your old friends ? "

Upon which Nelly laughed again in an excited
hysterical way. ' ' I have been on quite a
round," she said. " You always did scold me,
Lady Markham ; and I know you will do so
again. I was determined to show myself once
more before  the waters went over my head.
I can come out now in my pretty gown. But
afterwards, if I did such a thing everybody
would think me mad. Now you know why I
have come, and you can scold me as much as
you please. But I have done it, and it can't
be undone. It is a kind of farewell visit, you
know," she added, in her excited tone. 'rafter
this I shall disappear into  crape and affliction.
A widow ! What a horrible word. Think of
me, Nelly St John ; me, a widow ! Isn't it
horrible, horrible ? That is what they will call

me, Markham and the other men  the widow.
I know how they will speak, as well as if I
heard them. Lady Markham, they will call me
that, and you know what they will mean."

*' Nelly, Nelly, my poor child!" Lady
Markham held her hand and patted it softly
with her own. " Oh Nelly, you are very imprudent,
very silly. You will shock everybody,
and make them talk. You ought not to have
come out now. If you had sent for me, I
would have gone to you in a moment."

It was not that I wanted. I wanted just to

be like others for once  before I don't

seem to care what will happen to me  afterwards.
What do they do to a woman. Lady
Markham, when her husband dies ? They
would not let her bury herself with him, or
burn herself, or any of those sensible things.
What do they do, Lady Markham ? Brand her
somewhere in her flesh with a red-hot iron 
with ' Widow ' written upon her flesh ? "

My dear, you must care for poor Mr Winter-bourn
a great deal more than you were aware, or
you would not feel this so bitterly. Nelly "

Hush ! " she said, with a sort of solemnity.

Don't say that, Lady Markliam. Don't talk
about what I feel. It is all so miserable, I
don't know what I am doing. To think that he
should be my husband, and I just boiling with
life, and longing to get free, to get free : I that
was born to be a good woman, if I could, if you
would all have let me, if I had not been made

to Look here ! I am going to speak to

that little girl. You can say the other thing
afterwards. I know you will. You can make
it look so right  so right. Frances, if you are
persuaded to marry Claude Ramsay, or any
other man that you don't care for, remember
you'll just be like me. Look at me, dressed
out, paying visits, and my husband dying.
Perhaps he may be dead when I get home."
She paused a moment with a nervous shivering,
and drew her summer cloak closely around
her. " He is going to die, and I am running
about the streets. It is horrible, isn't it ? He
doesn't want me, and I don't want him ; and
next week I shall be all in crape, and branded
on my shoulder or somewhere  where. Lady
Markham ?  all for a man who  all for a man
that "

Nelly, Nelly ! for heaven's sake, at least
respect the child."

"It is because I respect her that I say anything.
Oh, it is all horrible ! And already
the men and everybody are discussing. What
will Nelly do ? The widow, what will she do ? "

Then the excited creature suddenly, without
warning, broke out into sobbing and tears.
Oh, don't think it is for grief," she said, as
Frances instinctively came towards her ; " it's
only the excitement, the horror of it, the feeling
that it is coming so near. 1 never was in
the house with Death, never, that I can remember.
And I shall be the chief mourner, don't
you know ? They will want me to do all sorts
of things. What do you do when you are a
widow. Lady Markham ? Have you to give
orders for the funeral, and say what sort of
a  coffin there is to be, and  all that ? "

"Nelly, Nelly! Oh, for God's sake, don't
say those dreadful things. You know you will

not be troubled about anything, least of all

And, my dear, my dear, recollect your husband
is still alive. It is dreadful to talk of details
such as those for a living: man."

'Most likely," she said, looking up with a
shiver, "he will be dead when I get home.
Oh, I wish it might all be over, everything,
before I go home. Couldn't you hide me somewhere,
Lady Markham ? Save me from seeing
him and all those  details, as you call them.
I cannot bear it ; and I have no mother nor
any one to come to me  nobody, nobody but
Sarah "Winterbourn."

I will go home with you, Nelly ; I will take
you back, my dear. Frances, take care of her
till I get my bonnet. My poor child, compose
yourself. Try and be calm. You must becalm,
and bear it," Lady Markham said.

Frances, with alarm, found herself left alone
with this strange being  not much older than
herself, and yet thrown amid such tragic elements.
She stood by her, not knowing how
to approach the subject of her thoughts, or
indeed any subject  for to talk to her of
common things was impossible. Mrs Winter-bourn,
however, did not turn towards Frances.
Her sobbing ended suddenly, as it had begun.
She sat with her head upon her hands, gazing
at the light. After a while she said, though

VOL. HI. E

without looking round, " You once offered to
sit up with me, thinking, or pretending, I don't
know which, that I was sitting up with him all
night : would you have done so if you had
been in my place ? "

I think  I don't know," said Frances, checking
herself.

"You would  you are not straightforward
enough to say it  I know you would ; and in
your heart you think I am a bad creature, a
woman without a heart."

''I don't think so," said Frances. "You
must have a heart, or you would not be so
unhappy."

"Do you know what I am unhappy about?
About myself. I am not thinking of him ; he
married me to please himself, not me,  and I
am thinking of myself, not him. It is all fair.
You would do the same if you married like
me.

Frances made no reply. She looked with
awe and pity at this miserable excitement and
wretchedness, which was so unlike anything her
innocent soul knew.

You don't answer," said Nelly. " You think

you never would have married like me. But
how can you tell ? If you had an offer as brood
as Mr AVinterbourn, your mother would make
you marr' him. I made a great match, don't
you know ? And if you ever have that in your
power, Lady Markham Thrill make short work
of your objections. You will just do as
other people have done. Claude Ramsay is
not so rich as Mr AYinterbourn ; but I suppose
he will be your fate, unless Con comes back
and takes him, which, very likely, is what she
will do. Oh, are you ready. Lady Markham ?
It is a pity you should give yourself so much
trouble ; for, you see, I am quite composed
now, and ready to go home."

Come, then, my dear Xelly. It is better
you should lose no time." Lady Markham
paused to say, " I shall probably be back
quite soon ; but if I don't come, don't be
alarmed," in Frances' ear.

The girl went to the window and watched
Nelly sweep out to her carriage as if nothing
could ever happen to her. The sight of the
servants and of the few passers-by had restored
her in a moment to herself. Frances stood and

pondered for some time at the window. Nelly's
was an agitating figure to burst into her quiet
life. She did not need the lesson it taught ;
but yet it filled her with trouble and awe.
This brilliant surface of Society, what tragedies
lay underneath ! She scarcely dared to follow
the young wife in imagination to her home ;
but she felt with her the horror of the approaching
death, the dread interval when the
event was coming, the still more dread moment
after, when, all shrinking and trembling in her
youth and loneliness, she would have to live side
by side with the dead, whom she had never loved,

to whom no faithful bond had united her

It was not till another carriage drew up and
some one got out of it that Frances retreated,
with a very different sort of alarm, from the window.
It was some one coming to call, she did
not see whom, one of those wonderful people
who came to talk over with her mother other
people whom Frances did not know. How was
she to find any subject on which to talk to
them ? Her anxiety was partially relieved by
seeing that it was Claude who came in. He
explained that Lady Someone had dropped him

at the door, having picked him up at some
other place where they had both been calling.
"There is a little east in the wind," he said,
pulling up the collar of his coat :

Was that Nelly Winterbourn I saw driving
away from the door ? I thought it was Nelly.
And when he is dying, with not many hours to
live ! "

And why should not she come to mamma ? "
said Frances. " She has no mother of her
own.

"Ah," said Ramsay, looking at her keenly,
I see what you mean. She has no mother of
her own ; and therefore she comes to Markham's,
which is next best."

I said, to my mother," said Frances, indignantly.
" T don't see what Markham has to do
with it."

All the same, I shouldn't like my wife to be
about the streets, going to  any one's mother,
dien I was dying."

It would be right enough," cried Frances,
hot and indignant, "if you had married a
woman who did not care for you." She forgot,
in the heat of her partisanship, that she

was admitting too much. But Claude did not
remember, any more than she.

"Oh, come," he said, "Miss Waring, Frances.
(May I call you Frances ? It seems unnatural
to call you Miss Waring, for, though I only saw
you for the first time a little while ago, I have
known you all your life.) Do you think it's
quite fair to compare me to Winterbourn ? He
was fifty when he married Nelly, a fellow quite
used up. At all events, I am young, and never
was fast; and I don't see," he added, pathetically,
" why a woman shouldn't be able to care
for me."

Oh, I did not mean that," cried Frances,
with penitence ; "I only meant "

And you shouldn't," said Claude, shaking
his head, " pay so much attention to what Nelly
says. She makes herself out a martyr now ;
but she was quite willing to marry Winter-bourn.
She was quite pleased. It was a great
match ; and now she is going to get the good
of it."

If being very unhappy is getting the good
of it ! "

'' Oh, unhappy ! " said Claude. It was evil



dent he held Mrs AVinterboiirn's unhappiness
lightly enough. " I'll tell you what"' he said,
talking of unhappiness, I saw another friend
of yours the other day who was unhappy, if you
like  that young soldier-fellow, the Indian man.
What do you call him?  Grant? No; that's
a Nile man. Gaunt. Now, if Lady ]markham
had taken him in hand "

Captain ' Gaunt ! " said Frances, in alarm;
' what has happened to him, Mr Ramsay ? Is

he ill ? Is he " Her face flushed with

anxiety, and then grew pale.

I can't say exactly," said Claude, " for I am
not in his confidence ; but I should say he had
lost his money, or something of that sort. I
don't frequent those sort of places in a general
way ; but sometimes, if I've been out in the
evening, if there's no east in the wind, and no
rain or fog, I just look in for a moment. I
rather think some of those fellows had been
punishing that poor innocent Indian man.
When a stranger comes among them, that's a
way they have. One feels dreadfully sorry for
the man ; but what can you do ? "

"What can you do? Oh, anything, rather

than stand by," cried Frances, excited by sudden
fears, " and see  and see I don't know

what you mean, Mr Ramsay ! Is it gambling ?
Is that what you mean ? "

"You should speak to Markham," he replied.
Markham's deep in all that sort of thing. If
anybody could interfere, it would be Markham.
But I don't see how even he could interfere.
He is not the fellow's keeper ; and what could
he say ? The other fellows are gentlemen ; they
don't cheat, or that sort of thing. Only, when
a man has not much money, or has not the
heart to lose it like a man "

Mr Ramsay, you don't know anything about
Captain Gaunt," cried Frances, with hot indignation
and excitement. " I don't understand
what you mean. He has the heart for  whatever
he may have to do. He is not like you people,
who talk about everybody, who know everybody.
But he has been in action ; he has distinguished
himself ; he is not a nobody like "

You mean me," said Claude. " So far as
being in action goes, I am a nobody of course.
But I hope, if I went in for play and that sort
of thing, I would bear my losses without looking

as ghastly as a skeleton. That is where a
man of the world, however little you may think
of us, has the better of people out of Society.
But I have nothing to do with his losses. I
only tell you, so that, if you can do anything
to get hold of him, to keep him from going to
the bad "

To the  bad ! " she cried. Her face grew
pale ; and something appalling, an indistinct
vision of horrors, dimly appeared before Frances'
eyes. She seemed to see not only George
Gaunt, but his mother weeping, his father
looking on with a startled miserable face.
*' Oh," she cried, trying to throw off the impression,
" you don't know what you are saying.
George Gaunt would never do anything that is
bad. You are making some dreadful mistake,

or Oh, Mr Kamsay, couldn't you tell him,

if you know it is so bad, before ? "

"What!" cried Claude, horror-struck. "I
tell  a fellow I scarcely know ! He would have
a right to  kick me, or something  or at least
to tell me to mind my own business. No ; but
you might speak to Markham. Markham is
the only man who perhaps might interfere."

"Oil, Markham! always Markham ! Oli, I
Yisll any one would tell me what Markham
has to do with it," cried Frances, with a moan.

"That's just one of his occupations," said
Ramsay, calmly. " They say it doesn't tell
much on him one way or other, but Markham
can't live without play. Don't you think, as
Lady Markham does not come in, that you
might give me a cup of tea ? "

Chapter XXXVII.

Constance Waring liacl not been enjoying herself
in Cordillera. Her amusement indeed came
to an end with the hio-hlv exciting yet disagreeable
scene which took place between herself and
young Gaunt the day before he went away. It
is late to recur to this, so much having passed
in the meantime ; but it really was the only
thing of note that happened to her. The blank
negative with which she had met his suit, the
air of surprise, almost indignation, with which
his impassioned appeal was received, confounded
poor young Gaunt. He asked her, with a simplicity
that sprang out of despair, '' Did you not
know then ? Averse you not aware ? Is it possible
that you were not  prepared ? "

For what. Captain Gaunt ? " Constance
asked, fixing him with a haughty look.

He returned that look with one that would
have cowed a weaker woman. "Did you not
know that I  loved you ? " he said.

Even she quailed a little. " Oh, as for that,
Captain Gaunt !  a man must be responsible for
his own follies of that kind. I did not ask
you to  care for me, as you say. I thought,
indeed, that you would have the discretion to
see that anything of the kind between us was
out of the question."

"Why?" he asked, almost sternly; and Constance
hesitated a little, finding it perhaps not
so easy to reply.

Because," she said after a pause, with a faint
flush, which showed that the effort cost her
something  " because  we belong to two different
worlds  because all our habits and modes
of living are different." By this time she began
to grow a little indignant that he should give
her so much trouble. " Because you are Captain
Gaunt, of the Indian service, and I am Constance
Waring," she said, with angry levity.

He grew deadly red with fierce pride and
shame.

"Because you are of the higher class, and

I of the lower," he said. " Is that what you
mean ? Yet I am a gentleman, and one cannot
well be more."

To this she made no reply, but moved away
from where she had been standing to listen to
him, and returned to her chair. They were on
the loggia, and this sudden movement left him
at one end, while she returned to the other. He
stood for a time following her with his eyes ;
then, having watched the angry abandon with
which she threw herself into her seat, turning
her head away, he came a little closer with a
certain sternness in his aspect.

'' Miss Waring," he said, " notwithstanding
the distance between us, you have allowed
me to be your  companion for some time
past."

Yes," she said. '* What then ? There was
no one else, either for me or for you."

That, then, was the sole reason ? "

Captain Gaunt," she cried, " what is the use
of all this? We were thrown in each other's
way. I meant nothing more ; if you did, it was
your own fault. You could not surely expect
that I should marry you and go to India with

you ? It is absurd  it is ridiculous," she cried,
with a hot blush, throwing back her head. He
saw with suddenly quickened perceptions that
the suggestion filled her with contempt and
shame. And the young man's veins tingled as
if fire was in them ; the rage of love despised
shook his very soul.

"ind why ? " he cried  " and why ? " his voice
tremulous with passion. " What is ridiculous
in that ? It may be ridiculous that I should
have believed in a girl like you. I may have
been a vain weak fool to do it, not to know that
I was only a plaything for your amusement ;
but it never could be ridiculous to think that a
woman might love and marry an honourable
man."

He paused several times to command his voice,
and she listened impatient, not looking at him,
clasping and unclasping her hands.

It would be ridiculous in me," she cried.
You don't know me, or you never would have

dreamt Captain Gaunt, this had better

end. It is of no use lashing yourself to fury,
or me either. Think the worst of me you can ;
it will be all the better for you  it will make

you hate me. Yes, I have been amusing myself;
and so, I supposed, were you too."

"Xo," lie said, " you could not think that."

She turned round and gave him one look, then
averted her eyes again, and said no more.

You did not think that," he cried, vehemently.
' You knew it was death to me, and
you did not mind. You listened and smiled,
and led me on. You never checked me bv a

word, or gave me to understand Oh," he

cried, with a sudden change of tone, " Constance,
if it is India, if it is only India, you have but to
hold up a finger, and I will give up India without
a word."

He had suddenly come close to her again. A
wild hope had blazed up in him. He made
as thouoii he would throw himself at her feet.

o

She lifted her hand hurriedly to forbid this
action.

Dont ! " she cried, sharply. " Men are not
theatrical nowadays. It is nothing to me
whether you go to India or stay at home. I
have told 3'ou already I never thought of anything
beyond friendship. Why should not we
have amused each other, and no harm ? If I

have done you any harm, I am sorry; but it
will only be for a very short time."

He had turned away, stung once more into
bitterness, and had tried to say something in
reply ; but his strength had not been equal to
his intention, and in the strong revulsion of
feeling, the young man leant against the wall
of the loggia, hiding his face in his hands.

There was a little pause. Then Constance
turned round half stealthily to see why there
was no reply. Her heart perhaps smote her a
little when she saw that attitude of despair.
She rose, and, after a moment's hesitation, laid
her hand lightly on his shoulder. " Captain
Gaunt, don't vex yourself like that. I am not
worth it. I never thought that any one could
be so much in earnest about me."

Constance," he cried, turning round quickly
upon her, " I am all in earnest. I care for
nothing in the world but you. Oh, say that
you were hasty  say that you will give me a
little hope!"

She shook her head. " I think," she said,
that all the time you must have mistaken
me for Frances. If I had not come, you would

have fallen in love with her, and she with
you."

"Don't insult me, at least ! " he cried.

Insult you  by saying that my sister !

You forget yourself, Captain Gaunt. If my
sister is not good enough for you, I wonder who
you think good enough. She is better than
I am ; far better  in that way."

There is only one woman in the world forme
; I don't care if there was no other," he
said.

That is benevolent towards the rest of the
world," said Constance, recovering her composure.
" Do you know," she said, gravely, " I
think it will be much better for you to go away.
I hope we may eventually be good friends ; but
not just at present. Please go. I should like
to part friends ; and I should like you to take a
parcel for Frances, as you are going to London ;
and to see my mother. But, for heaven's sake,
go away now. A walk will do you good, and
the fresh air. You will see things in their
proper aspect. Don't look at me as if you
could kill me. What I am saying is quite
true."

VOL. III. F

A walk," lie repeated with unutterable scorn,
will do me good ! "

Yes," lie said, calmly. " It will do you a
great deal of good. And change of air and scene
will soon set you all right. Oh, I know very
well what I am saying. But pray, go now.
Papa will make his appearance in about ten
minutes ; and you don't want to make a confidant
of papa."

It matters nothing to me who knows," he
said; but all the same he gathered himself up
and made an effort to recover his calm.

It does to me, then," said Constance. " I
am not at all inclined for papa's remarks.
Captain Gaunt, good-bye. I wish you a
pleasant journey ; and I hope that some time
or other we may meet again, and be very good
friends."

She had the audacity to hold out her hand
to him calmly, looking into his eyes as she
spoke. But this was more than young Gaunt
could bear. He gave her a fierce look of passion
and despair, waved his hand without touching
hers, and hurried headlong away.

Constance stood listening till she heard the

door close behind him ; and then she seated
herself tranquilly again in her chair. It was
evening, and she was waiting for her father
for dinner. She had taken her last ramble with
the Gaunts that afternoon ; and it was after
their return from this walk that the young
soldier had rushed back to inform her of the
letters which called him at once to London, and
had burst forth into the love-tale which had
been trembling on his lips for days past. She
had known very well that she could not escape
that the reckoning for these innocent pleasures
would have to come. But she had not expected
it at that moment, and had been temporarily
taken by surprise. She seated herself now with
a sigh of relief, yet regret. "Thank goodness,
that's over," she said to herself ; but she was not
quite comfortable on the subject. In the first
place, it teas over, and there was an end of all
her simple fun. No more walks, no more talks
skirting the edge of the sentimental and dangerous,
no more diplomatic exertions to keep the
victim within due limits  fine exercises of
power, such as always carry with them a real
pleasure. And then, being no more than human.

she bad a little compunction as to the sufferer.
'she will get over it," she said to herself;
change of air and scene would no doubt do
everything for him. Men have died, and worms
have eaten them, &c. Still, she could not but
be sorry. He had looked very wretched, poor
fellow, which was complimentary ; but she had
felt something of the self-contempt of a man
who has got a cheap victory over an antagonist
much less powerful than himself. A practised
swordsman (or woman) of Society should not
measure arms with a merely natural person,
knowing nothing of the noble art of self-defence.
It was perhaps a little  mean, she said to herself.
Had it been one of her owen species, the
duel would have been as amusing throughout,
and no harm done. This vexed her a little, and
made her uneasy. She remembered, though she
did not in general care much about books or
the opinion of the class of nobodies who write
them, of some Avery sharp things that had been
said upon this subject. Lady Clara Yere de
Vere had not escaped handling ; and she thought
that after it Lady Clara must have felt small,
as Constance Waring did now.

But then, on the other hand, what could be
more absurd than for a man to suppose, because
a girl was glad enough to amuse herself with
him for a week or two, in absolute default of
all other society, that she was ready to marry
him, and go to India with him ! To India !
What an idea ! And it had been quite as much
for his amusement as for hers. Neither of them
had any one else : it was in self-defence  it was
the only resource against absolute dulness. It
had made the time pass for him as well as
for her. He ought to have known all along
that she meant nothing; more. Indeed Constance
wondered how he could be so silly as to
want to have a wife and double his expenses,
and bind himself for life. A man, she reflected,
must be so much better ofi* when he has only
himself to think of Fancy him taking her
bills on his shoulders as well as his own ! She
wondered, with a contemptuous laugh, how he
would like that, or if he had the least idea
what these bills would be. On the whole, it
was evident, in every point of view, that he was
much better out of it. Perhaps even by this
time he would have been tearing his hair, had

lie taken him at his word. But no. Constance
could not persuade herself that this was likely.
Yet he would have torn his hair, she was certain,
before the end of the first year. Thus she
worked herself round to something like self-forgiveness
; but all the same there rankled at her
heart a sense of meanness, the consciousness of
having gone out in battle-array and vanquished
with beat of drum and sound of trumpet an
unprepared and undefended adversary, an antagonist
with whom the struggle was not fair.
Her sense of honour was touched, and all her
arguments could not content her with herself.

o

"I suppose you have been out with the
Gaunts again ? " Waring said, as they sat at
table, in a dissatisfied tone.

"Yes; but you need never put the question
to me again in that uncomfortable way,
for George Gaunt is going ofi" tomorrow, papa."

"Oh, he is going ofi" tomorrow ? Then I
suppose you have been honest, and given him
his cone at last ? "

I honest ? I did not know I had ever
been accused of picking and stealing. If he
had asked me for his cone, he should have

had it long ago. He lias been sent for, it
seems."

Tien has the cone not yet been asked for?
In that case we shall have him back again, I
suppose ? " said her father, in a tone of resignation,
and with a shrug of his shoulders.

No ; for his people will be away. They
are going; to Switzerland, and the Durants are
going to Homburg. Where do you mean to
go, when it is too hot to stay here ? "

He looked at her half angrily for a moment.
'rit is never too hot to stay here," he said ;
then, after a pause, " We can move higher
up among the hills."

Where one will never see a soul  worse
even than here ! "

Oh, you will see plenty of country-folk,"
he said  " a fine race of people, mountaineers,
yet husbandmen, which is a rare combination."


Constance looked up at him with a little
moiie of mingled despair and disdain.

With perhaps some romantic young Italian
count for you to practise upon," he said.

Though the humour on his part was grim

and derisive rather than sympathetic, her countenance
cleared a little. " You know, papa,"
she said, with a faintly complaining note, " that
my Italian is very limited, and your counts
and countesses speak no language but their
own."

Oh, who can tell ? There may be some poor
soldier on furlough who has French enough

to By the way," he added, sharply, " you

must remember that they don't understand
flirtation with girls. If you were a married
woman, or a young widow "

You might pass me off as a young widow,
papa. It would be amusing  or at least it
might be amusing. That is not a quality of
the life here in general. What an odd thing
it is that in England we always believe life
to be so much more amusing abroad than at
home."

"It is amusing  at Monte Carlo, perhaps."

Constance made another iiioue at the name
of Monte Carlo, from the sight of which she
had not derived much pleasure. " I suppose,"
she said, impartially, " what really amuses one
is the kind of diversion one has been accustomed

to, and to know everybody : chiefly
to know everybody," she added, after a pause.

"With these views, to know nobody must
be bad luck indeed ! "

"It is," she said, with great candour ; " that
is why I have been so much with the Gaunts.
One can't live absolutely alone, you know,
papa."

"I can  with considerable success," he replied.


Ah, you ! There are various things to
account for it with you," she said.

He waited for a moment, as if to know what
these various things were ; then smiled to himself
a little angrily at his daughter's calm way
of taking his disabilities for granted. It was
not till some time after, when the dinner had
advanced a stage, that he spoke again. Then
he said, without any introduction, " I often
wonder, Constance, when you find this life so
dull as you do "

"Yes, very dull," she said frankly,  "especially
now, when all the people are going away."

I wonder often," he repeated, " my dear,
why you stay ; for there is nothing to recompense

you for such a sacrifice. If it is for my
sake, it is a pity, for I could really get on
very well alone. We don't see very much
of each other ; and till now, if you will pardon
me for saying so, your mind has been taken
up with a pursuit which  you could have
carried on much better at home."
** You mean what you are pleased to call
flirtation, papa ? No, I could not have carried
on that sort of thing at home. The conditions
are altogether different. It is difficult to
account for my staying, dien, clearly, you
don't consider me of any use, and don't want
me."

'' I have never said that. Of course I am
very glad to have you. It is in the bond,
and therefore my right. I was regarding the
question solely from your point of view."

Constance did not answer immediately. She
paused to think. When she had turned the
subject over in her mind, she replied, " I need
not tell you how complicated one's motives get.
It takes a long time to make sure which is
really the fundamental one, and how it works."

'' You are a philosopher, my dear."

Not more than one must be with Society
pressing upon one as it does, papa. Nothing
is straightforward nowadays. You have to dig
quite deep down before you come at the real
meaning of anything you do ; and very often,
when you get hold of it, you don't quite like to
acknowledge it, even to yourself."

That is rather an alarming preface, but
very just too. If you don't like to acknowledge
it to yourself, you will like still less to
acknowledge it to me ? "

I don't quite see that : perhaps I am harder
upon myself than you would be. No ; but I
prefer to think of it a little more before I tell
you. I have a kind of feeling now that it is
because  but you will think that a shabby sort
of pride  it is because I am too proud to own
myself beaten, which I should do if I were to
go back."

"It is a very natural sort of pride," he said.

"But it is not all that. I must go a little
deeper still. Not to-night. I have done as
much thinking as I am quite able for to-night."

And thus the question was left for another
day.

CHAPTER Xxxviii.

Next morning, Constance, seated as usual in
the loggia, which was now, as the weather grew
hot, veiled with an awning, heard  her ears being
very quick, and on the alert for every sound 
a tinkle of the bell, a sound of admittance, the
step of Domenico leading some visitor to the
place in which she sat. Was it he, coming yet
again to implore her pardon, an extension of
privileges, a hope for the future ? She made
out instantaneously, however, that the footstep
which followed Domenico was not that of
young Gaunt. It was softer, less decided  an
indefinite female step. She sat up in her
chair and listened, letting her book fall, and
next moment saw Mrs Gaunt, old-fashioned,
assured, with a troubled look upon her face,
in her shawl and big hat, come out almost

timidly upon the loggia. Constance sprang to
her' feet  then in a moment collapsed and
shrank away into herself. Before the young
lover she was a Cjueen, and to her father she
preserved her dignity very well ; but when his
mother appeared, the girl had no longer any
power to hold up her head. Mrs Gaunt was
old, very badly dressed, not very clever or
wise ; but Constance felt those mild, somewhat
dull eyes penetrating to the depths of
her own guilty heart.

"How do you do, Miss Waring?" said Mrs
Gaunt, stiffly. (She had called her-'my dear"
yesterday, and had been so anxious to please
her, doing everything she could to ingratiate herself)
"I hope I do not disturb you so early;
but my son. Captain Gaunt, is going away "

'Oh yes  I heard. I am very sorry," the
guilty Constance murmured, hanging her head.

I do not know that there is any cause to
be sorry ; we were going anyhow in a few
days. And in London my son will find many
friends."

I mean," said Constance, drawing a long
breath, beginning to recover a little courage,

feeling, even in her discomfiture, a faint
amusement still  "I mean, for his friends
here, who will miss him so much."

Mrs Gaunt darted a glance at her, half
wrathful, half wavering ; it had seemed so unnatural
to her that any girl could play with
or resist her son. Perhaps, after all, he had
misunderstood Constance. She said, proudly,
His friends always miss George ; he is so
friendly. Nobody ever asks anything from
him, to take any trouble or make any sacrifice,
in vain."

I am sure he is very good," said Constance,
tremulous, yet waking to the sense of humour
underneath.

That is why I am here to-day," said Mrs
Gaunt. " My son  remembers  though perhaps
you will allow he has not much call todo
so. Miss Waring  that you said something
about a parcel for Frances. Dear Frances ; he
weill see her  that will always be something."

"Then he is not coming to say good-bye ? "
she said, opening her eyes with a semblance of
innocent and regretful surprise.

Oh, Miss Waring ! oh, Constance ! " cried

the poor mother. " But perhaps my boy has
made a mistake. He is very wretched. I
am sure he never closed his eyes all last
night. If you saw him this morning, it would
go to your heart. Ah, my dear, he thinks
you will have nothing to say to him, and his
heart is broken. If you will only let me tell
him that he has made a mistake ! "

"Is it about me, Mrs Gaunt ? "

"Oh, Constance ! who should it be about
but you? He has never looked at any one
else since he saw you first. All that has been
in his mind has been how to see you, how to
talk to you, to make himself agreeable if he
could  to try and get your favour. I will not
conceal anything from you. I never was satisfied
from the first. I thought you were too
grand, too much used to fine people and their
ways, ever to look at one of us. But then,
when I saw my George, the flower of my flock,
with nothing in his mind but how to please you,
his eyes following you wherever you went, as
if there was not another in the world "

There was not another in Bordighera, at
least," said Constance, under her breath.

"There was not ? What did you say  

what did you say ? Oh, there was nobody that
he ever wasted a thought on but you. I had my
doubts all the time. I used to say, * George,
dear, don't go too far; don't throw everything
at her feet till you know how she feels.' But I
might as well have talked to the sea. If he had
been the king of all the world, he would have
poured everything into your lap. Oh, my
dear, a man's true love is a great thing ; it is
more than crowns or queen's jewels. You
might have all the world contains, and beside
that it would be as nothing  and this is what
he has given you. Surely you did not
understand him when he spoke, or he did not
understand you. Perhaps you were taken by
surprise  fluttered, as girls will be, and said
the wrong words. Or you were shy. Or you
did not know your own mind. Oh, Constance,
say it was a mistake, and give me a word of
comfort to take to my boy 1 "

The tears were running down the poor
mother's cheeks as she pleaded thus for her
son. When she had left home that morning,
after surprising, divining the secret, which he

had done his best to hide from her overnight,
there had been a double purpose in Mrs
Gaunt s mind. She had intended to pour
out such vials of wrath upon the girl who had
scorned her son, such floods of righteous indignation,
that never, never should she raise her
head again ; and she had intended to watch
her opportunity, to plead on her knees, if need
were, if there was any hope of getting him
what he wanted. It did not disturb her that
these two intentions were totally opposed to
each other. And she had easily been beguiled
into thinking that there was good hope still.

While she spoke, Constance on her side had
been going through a series of observations,
running comments upon this address, which
did not move her very much. " If he had
been king of all the world  ah, that would
have made a difference," she said to herself;
and it was all she could do to refrain from
bursting forth in derisive laughter at the suggestion
that she herself had perhaps been shy,
or had not known her own mind. To think
that any woman could be such a simpleton, so
easily deceived ! The question was, whether to

VOL. ill. G

be gentle with the delusion, and spare Mrs
Gaunt s feelings ; or whether to strike her
down at once with indignation and sharp scorn.
There passed through the mind of Constance
a rapid calculation that in so small a community
it was better not to make an enemy,
and also perhaps some softening reflections
from the remorse which really had touched
her last night. So that when Mrs Gaunt ended
by that fervent prayer, her knees trembling
with the half intention of falling upon them,
her voice faltering, her tears flowing, Constance
allowed herself to be touched with
responsive emotion. She put out both her
hands and cried, " Oh, don't speak like that
to me ; oh, don't look at me so ! Dear, dear
Mrs Gaunt, teach me what to do to make up
for it ! for I never thought it would come to
this. I never imagined that he, who deserves
so much better, would trouble himself about
me. Oh, what a wretched creature I am to
bring trouble everywhere ! for I am not free.
Don't you know I am  engaged to some one
else ? Oh, I thought everybody knew of it !
I am not free."

Not free ! " said Mrs Gaunt, with a cry of
dismay.

Oh, didn't you know of it ? " said Constance.
"I thought everybody knew. It has
been settled for a long time  since I was quite
a child."

"My dear," said Mrs Gaunt, solemnly, "if
your heart is not in it, you ought not to goon
with it. I did hear something  a gentleman,
whom your mamma wished you to
marry; who was very rich, and all that."

Constance nodded her head slowly, in a
somewhat melancholy assent.

"But I was told that you did not wish it
yourself  that you had broken it off  that you

had come here to avoid Oh, my dear girl,

don't take up a false sense of duty, or  or
honour  or self-sacrifice! Constance, you
may have a right to sacrifice yourself, but
not another  not another, dear. And all his
happiness is wrapped uj) in you. And if it
is a thing your heart does not go with ! "
cried the poor lady, losing herself in the complication
of phrases. Constance only shook
her head.

' Dear Mrs Gaunt ! I must think of honour and
duty. What would become of us all if we put

an engagement aside, because  because ?

And it would be cruel to the other; he is not
strong. I could not, oh, I could not break
off  oh no, not for worlds  it would kill him.
But will you try and persuade Captain
Gaunt not to think hardly of me ? I thought
I might enjoy his friendship without any harm.
If I have done wrong, oh forgive me ! " Constance
cried.

Mrs Gaunt dried her eyes. She was a
simple - minded woman, who knew what she
wanted, and whose instinct taught her to
refuse a stone when it was offered to her
instead of bread. She said, "He will forgive
you, Miss Waring ; he will not think hardly
of you, you may be sure. They are too infatuated
to do that, when a girl like you takes

the trouble to But I think you might

have thought twice before you did it, knowing
what you tell me now. A young man
fresh from India, where he has been working
hard for years  coming home to get up his
strength, to enjoy himself a little, to make up

for all his long time away And because

you are a little lonely, and want to enjoy his
friendship, as you say, you go and spoil his
holiday for him, make it all wretched, and
make even his poor mother wish that he had
never come home at all. And you think it
will all be made up if you say you are sorry
at the end ! To him, perhaps, poor foolish
boy ; but oh, not to me."

Constance made no reply to this. She had
done her best, and for a moment she thought
she had succeeded ; but she had always been
aware, by instinct, that the mother was less
easy to beguile than the son ; and she was
silent, attempting no further self-defence.

"Young men are a mystery to me," said Mrs
Gaunt, standing with agitated firmness in the
middle of the loggia, taking no notice of the
chair which had been offered her. She did
not even look at Constance, but directed her
remarks to the swaying palms in the foreground
and the hills behind  "they are a
mystery ! There may be one under their very
eyes that is as good as gold and as true as
steel, and they will never so much as look at

lier. And there will be another that thinks of
nothing but amusing herself, and that is the
one they will adore. Oh, it is not for the first
time now that I have found it out ! I had
my misgivings from the very first ; but he was
like all the rest  he would not hear a word
from his mother; and now I am sure I wish
his furlough was at an end ; I wish he had
never come home. His father and I would
rather have waited on and pined for him, or
even made up our minds to die without seeing
him, rather than he should have come here to
break his heart."

She paused a moment and then resumed
again, turning from the palms and distant
peaks to concentrate a look of fire upon Constance,
who sat sunk in her wicker chair,
turning her head away.

And if a man were to go astray after being
used like that, whose fault would it be ? If he
were to go wrong;  if he were to lose heart, to
say What's the good ? whose fault would it be ?
Oh, don't tell me that you didn't know what
you were doing  that you didn't mean to break
his heart ! Did you think he had no heart at

all ? But then, why should you have taken
the trouble ? It wouldn't have amused you, it
would have been no fun, had he had no heart."

"You seem," said Constance, without turning
her head, launching a stray arrow in self-defence,
"to know all about it, Mrs Gaunt."

Perhaps I do know all about it,  I am a
woman myself. I wasn't always old and faded.
I know there are some things a girl may do in
innocence, and some  that no one but a wicked

woman of the world Oh, you are young

to be called such a name. I oughtn't, at your
age, however I may suffer by you, to call you
such a name."

"You may call me what name you like.
Fortunately I have not to look to you as my
judge. Look here," cried Constance, springing
to her feet. " You say you are a woman yourself.
I am not like Frances, a girl that knew
nothing. If your son is at my feet, I have had
better men at my feet, richer men, far better
matches than Captain Gaunt. Would any one
in their senses expect me to marry a poor
soldier, to go out to India, to follow the regiment
? You forget I'm Lady Markham's

daughter as well as Mr Waring's. Put yourself
in her place for a moment, and think what
you would say if your daughter told you that
was what she was going to do. To marry a poor
man, not even at home  an officer in India !
What would you say? You would lock me
up in my room, and keep me on bread and
water. You would say, the girl is mad. At least
that is what my mother, if she could, would do."

Mrs Gaunt caught upon the point which
was most salient and attackable. " An Indian
officer!" she cried. "That shows how little
you know. He is not an Indian officer  he is
a Queen's officer : not that it matters. There

were men in the Company's service that

The Company's service was How dare

you speak so to me ? General Gaunt was
in the Company's service ! " she cried, with an
outburst of injured feeling and excited pride.

To this Constance made reply with a mocking
laugh, which nearly drove her adversary
frantic, and resumed her seat, having said what
she had to say.

Poor Mrs Gaunt sat down, too, in sheer inability
to support herself. Her limbs trembled

under her. She wanted to cry, but would not,
had she died in that act of self-restraint. And
as she could not have said another word without
crying, force was upon her to keep silence,
though her heart burned. After an interval,
she said, tremulously, " If this is one of our
punishments for Eve's fault, it's far, far harder
to bear than the other ; and every woman has
to bear it more or less. To see a man that
ought to make one woman's happiness turned
into a jest by another woman, and made a
laughing-stock of, and all his innocent pleasure
turned into bitterness. Why did you do it ?
Averse there not plenty of men in the world
that you should take my boy for your plaything
? "Wasn't there room for you in London,
that you should come here ? Oh, what possessed
you to come here, where no one wanted
you, and spoil all ? "

Constance turned round and stared at her
accuser with troubled eyes. It was a question
to which it was difficult to give any answer ;
and she could not deny that it was a very
pertinent question. No one had wanted her.
There had been room for her in London, and

a recognised place, and everything a girl could
desire. Oli, how she desired now those things
which belonged to her, which she had left so
lightly, which there was nothing here to replace !
Why had she left them ? If a wish could have
taken her back, out of this foreign, alien, unloved
scene, away from Mrs Gaunt, scolding her
in the big hat and shawl, which would be only
fit for a charade at home, to Lady Markham's
soft and lovely presence  to Claude, even poor
Claude, with his beautiful eyes and his fear of
draughts  how swiftly would she have travelled
through the air ! But a wish would not doit
; and she could only stare at her assailant
blankly, and in her heart echo the question.
Why, oh why?

Notwithstanding this stormy interview, Constance
had so far recovered by the afternoon,
and was so utterly destitute of anything else byway
of amusement, that she walked down to
the railway station at the hour when the train
started for Marseilles and England, with a perfectly
composed and smiling countenance, and
the little parcel for Frances under her arm.
Mrs Gaunt was like a woman turned to stone

when she suddenly saw this apparition, standing
upon the platform, talking to her old
general, amusing and occupying him so that
he almost forgot that he was here on no joyful
but a melancholy occasion. And to see George
hurry forward, his dark face lit up with a
sudden glow, his hat in his hand, as if he were
about to address the Queen ! These are things
which are very hard upon women, to whom
it is generally given to preserve their senses
even when the most seductive siren smiles.

You would not come to say good-bye to me,
so I had to take it into my own hands," Constance
said, in her clear young voice, which was
to be heard quite distinctly through all the
jabber of the Eiviera functionaries. " And here
is the little parcel for Frances, if you will be so
very good. Do go and see them. Captain Gaunt."

Of course he will go and see them," said the
General  "too glad. He has not so many
people to see in town that he should forget
our old friend Waring's near connections, and
Frances, whom we were all so fond of. And
you may be sure he will be honoured by any
commissions you will give him."

Oh, I have no commissions. Markham does
my commissions when I have any. He is the
best of brothers in that respect. Give my love
to mamma, Captain Gaunt. She will like to
see some one who has seen me. Tell her I get
on  pretty well. Tell them all to come out
here."

"He must not do that. Miss Waring; for it
will soon be too hot, and we are all going
away."

Oh, I was not in earnest," said Constance ;
"it was only a little jest. I must look too
sincere for anything, for people are always
taking my little jokes as if I meant them,
every word." She raised her eyes to Captain
Gaunt as she spoke, and with one steady look
made an end in a moment of all the hasty hopes
that had sprung up again in less time than
Jonah's gourd. She put the parcel in his
charge, and shook hands with him, taking no
notice of his sudden change of countenance, 
and not only this, but waited a little way off
till the poor young fellow had got into the train,
and had been taken farewell of by his parents.
Then she waved her hand and a little film of

a pocket-handkerchief, and waited till the old
pair came out, Mrs Gaunt with very red eyes,
and even the General blowing his nose unnecessarily.


It seems only the other day that we came
down to meet him  after not seeing him for so
many years."

Oh, my poor boy ! But I should not mind
if I thought he had got any good out of his
holiday," said Mrs Gaunt, launching a burning
look among her tears at the siren.

Oh, I think he has enjoyed himself, Mrs
Gaunt. I am sure you need not have any
burden on your mind on that account," the
young deceiver said smoothly.

Yes, he had enjoyed himself, and now had
to pay the price of it in disappointment and
ineffectual misery. This was all it had brought
him, this brief intoxicating dream, this fool's
paradise. Constance walked with them as far
as their way lay together, and " talked very
nicely," as he said afterwards, to the General ;
but Mrs Gaunt, if she could have done it with
a wish, would have willingly pitched this siren,
where other sirens belong to  into the sea.

CHAPTEK XXXIX.

And Constance, too, had found it amusing  she
did not hesitate to acknowledge that to herself.
She had got a great deal of diversion out of
these six weeks. There had been nothing,
really, when you came to think of it, to
amuse anybody : a few dull walks ; a drive
along the dusty roads, which were more dusty
than anything she had ever experienced in her
life ; and then a ramble among the hills, a
climb from terrace to terrace of the olive-gardens,
or through the stony streets of a
little mountain town. It was the contrast,
the harmony, the antagonism, the duel and
the companionship continually going on, which
had given everything its zest. The scientific
man with an exciting object under the microscope,
the astronomer with his new star pulsing

out of the depths of the sky, could scarcely have
been more absorbed than Constance. Not so
much ; for not the most cherished of star-fishes,
not the most glorious of stars, is so exciting
as it is to watch the risings and flowing of
emotion under your own hand, to feel that
you can cause ecstasy or despair, and raise
up another human creature to the heights of
delight, or drop him to depths beneath purgatory,
at your will. When the young and
cruel possess this power  and the very young
are often cruel by ignorance, by inability to
understand suffering  they are seldom clever
enough to use it to the full extent. But
Constance was clever, and had tasted blood
before. It had made the time pass as nothing
else could have done. It had carried on a
thread of keen interest through all these commonplace
pursuits. It had been as amusing,
nay, much more so than if she had loved
him ; for she got the advantage of his follies
without sharing them, and felt herself to stand
high in cool ethereal light, while the unfortunate
young man turned himself outside in
for her enlightenment. She had enjoyed herself

 she did not deny it ; but now there was
the penalty to pay.

He was gone, clean gone, escaped from her
power; and nothing was left but the beggarly
elements of this small bare life, in which there
was nothing to amuse or interest. The roads
were more intolerable than ever, lying white in
heat and dust, which rose in clouds round every
carriage  carriage ! that was an euphemism 
cab which passed. The sun blazed everywhere,
so that one thought regretfully of the dull skies
of England, and charitably of the fogs and rains.
There was nothing to do but to go up among
the olives and sit down upon some ledge and
look at the sea. Constance did not draw,
neither did she read. She did nothing that
could be of any use to her here. She regretted
now that she had allowed herself at the very
beginning; to fall into the snare of that amusement,
too ready to her hand, which consisted of
Captain Gaunt. It had been a mistake  if for
no other reason, at least because it left the
dulness more dull than ever, now it was over.
He it was who had been her resource, his looks
and ways her study, the gradual growth of his

love the romance which had kept her going.
She asked herself sometimes whether she could
possibly have done as much harm to him as
to herself by this indulgence, and answered
earnestly, No. How could it do him any
harm ? He was vexed, of course, for the
moment, because he could not have her ; but
very soon he would come to. He would be a
fool, more of a fool than she thought him, if
he did not soon see that it was much better
for him that she had thought only of a little
amusement. Why should he marry, a young
man with very little money ? There could be
no doubt it would have been a great mistake.
Constance did not know what society in India
is like, but she supposed it must be something
like society at home, and in that case there
was no doubt he would have found it altogether
more difficult had he gone back a
married man.

She could not think, looking at the subject
dispassionately, how he could ever have wished
it. An unmarried young man (she reflected)
gets asked to a great many places, where the
people could not be troubled with a pair.

VOL. III. H

And whereas some girls may be promoted by
marriage, it is almost always to the disadvantage
of a young man. So, why should he
make a fuss about it, this young woman of the
world asked herself. He ought to have been
very glad that he had got his amusement and
no penalty to pay. But for herself, she was
sorry. Now he was gone, there was nobody
to talk to, nobody to walk with, no means of
amusement at all. She did not know what todo
with herself, while he was speeding to dear
London. What was she to do with herself?
Filial piety and the enjoyment of her own
thoughts  without anything to do even for her
father, or any subject to employ her thoughts
upon  these were all that seemed to be left to
her in her life. The tourists and invalids were
all gone, so that there was not even the chance
of somebody turning up at the hotels ; and
even the Gaunts  between whom and herself
there was now a gulf fixed  and the Durants,
who were bores unspeakable, were going away.
What was she to do ?

Alas, that exhilarating game which had ended
so sadly for George Gaunt was not ending very

cheerfully for Constance. It had made life too
tolerable  it had kept her in a pleasant self-deception
as to the reality of the lot she had
chosen. Now that reality flashed upon her, 
nay, the word is far too animated  it did not
flash, nothing any longer flashed, except that
invariable, intolerable sun,  it opened upon her
dully, with its long, long, endless vistas. The
still rooms in the Palazzo with the green
Ijersiani closed, all blazing sunshine without,
all dead stillness and darkness within  and
nothing to do, nobody to see, nothing to give a
fresh turn to her thoughts. Not a novel even !
Papa's old books upon out-of-the-way subjects,
dreary as the dusty road, endless as the uneventful
days  and papa himself, the centre
of all. When she turned this over and over
in her mind, it seemed to her that if, when
she first came, instead of being seduced into
flowery paths of flirtation, she had paid a little
attention to her father, it mig-ht have been
better for her now. But that chance was over,
and George Gaunt was gone, and only dulness
remained behind.

And oh, how different it must be in town.

where the season was just beginning, and
Frances, that little country thing, who would
care nothing about it, was going to be presented
! Constance, it is scarcely necessary to
say, had been told what her sister was to wear ;
indeed, having gone through the ceremony herself,
and knowing exactly what was right, could
have guessed without being told. How would
Frances look with her little demure face and
her neat little figure ? Constance had no unkindly
feeling towards her sister. She fully
recognised the advantages of the girl, who was
like mamma ; and whose youthful freshness
would be enhanced by the good looks of the
little stately figure beside her, showing the
worst that Frances was likely to come to,
even when she got old. Constance knew very
well that this was a great advantage to a girl,
having heard the frank remarks of Society upon
those beldams who lead their young daughters
into the world, presenting in their own persons
a horrible caricature of what those girls may
grow to be. But Frances would look very well,
the poor exile decided, sitting on the low wall
of one of the terraces, gazing through the grey

olives over the blue sea. She would look very
well. She would be frightened, yet amused, by
the show. She would be admired  by people
who liked that quiet kind. Markham would
be with them ; and Claude, perhaps Claude, if
it was a fine day, and there was no east in the
wind ! She stopped to laugh to herself at this
suggestion, but her colour rose at the same
time, and an angry question woke in her mind.
Claude ! She had told Mrs Gaunt she was
eno'ao;ed to him still. Was she eng-ao'ed to

<I> CD C> O

him ? Or had he thrown her off, as she threw
him off, and perhaps found consolation in
Frances ? At this thought the olive - gardens
in their coolness grew intolerable, and the sea
the dreariest of prospects. She jumped up,
and notwithstanding the sun and the dust,
went down the broad road, the old Eoman
way, where there was no shade nor shelter.
It was not safe, she said to herself, to be left
there with her thoughts. She must break the
spell or die.

She went, of all places in the world, poor
Constance ! to the Durants' in search of a little
variety. Their loggia also was covered with an

awning; lout they did not venture into it till
the sun was going down. They had their tea-table
in the drawing-room, which, till the eyes
grew accustomed to it, was quite dark, with
one ray of subdued light stealing in from the
open door of the loggia, but the blinds all
closed and the windows. Here Constance was
directed, by the glimmer of reflection in the
teapot and china, to the spot where the family
were sitting, Mrs Durant and Tasie languidly
waving their fans. The dolce far niente was
not appreciated in that clerical house. Tasie
thought it her duty to be always doing something
 knitting at least for a bazaar, if it was
not light enough for other work. But the heat
had overcome even Tasie ; though it could not,
if it had been tropical, do away with the little
furnace of the hot tea. They all received Constance
with the languid delight of people in
an atmosphere of ninety degrees, to whom no
visitor has appeared, nor any incident happened,
all day.

Oh, Miss Waring," said Tasie, " we have
just had a great disappointment. Some one
sent us the ' Queen ' from home, and we looked

directly for the drawing-room, to see Frances'
name and how she was dressed ; but it is not
there."

"No," said Constance; "the 29th is her
day."

Oh, that is what I said, mamma. I said
we must have mistaken the date. It couldn't
be that there was any mistake about going,
when she wrote and told us. I knew the date
must be wrong."

Many things may occur at the last moment
to stop one, Tasie. I have knom a lady with
her dress all ready laid out on the bed ; and
circumstances happened so that she could not
go."

"That is by no means a singular experience,
my dear," said Mr Disant, who in his black
coat was almost invisible. "I have known
many such cases ; and in matters more important
than drawing-rooms."

There was the Sangazures," said the clergyman's
wife  " don't you recollect ? Lady Alice
was just putting on her bonnet to go to her
daughter's marriage, when "

"It is really unnecessary to recall so many

examples," said Constance. " No doubt they
are all quite true ; but as a matter of fact, in
this case the date was the 29th."

Oh, I hope," said Tasie, " that somebody
will send us another ' Queen ' ; for I should
be so sorry to miss seeing about Frances.
Have you heard, Miss Waring, how she is to
be dressed ? "

It will be the usual white business," said
Constance, calmly.

You mean  all white ? Yes, I suppose so ;
and the material, silk or satin, with tulle ? Oh
yes, I have no doubt ; but to see it all written
down, with the dr aping and houillonnes and
all that, makes it so much more real. Don't
you think so? Dear Frances, she always
looked so nice in white  which is trying to
many people. I really cannot wear white, for
my part."

Constance looked at her with a scarcely concealed
smile. She was not tolerant of the old-young
lady, as Frances was. Her eyes meant
mischief as they made out the sandy complexion,
the uncertain hair, which were so
unlike Frances' clear little face and glossy

brown satin locks. But, fortunately, the eloquence
of looks did not tell for much in that
closely shuttered dark room. And Constance's
nerves, already so jarred and strained, responded
with another keen vibration when
Mrs Durant's voice suddenly came out of the
gloom with a bland question : " And when are
you moving ? Of course, like all the rest,
you must be on the wing."

"Where should we be going ? I don't think
we are going anywhere," she said.

*'My dear Miss Waring, that shows, if you
will let me say so, how little you know of
our climate here. You must go : in the summer
it is intolerable. We have stayed a little
longer than usual this year. My husband
takes the duty at Homburg every summer,
as perhaps you are aware."

Oh, it is so much nicer there for the
Sunday work," said Tasie ; " though I love
dear little Bordighera too. But the Sunday-school
is a trial. To give up one's afternoons
and take a great deal of trouble for perhaps
three children ! Of course, papa, I know it
is my duty."

And quite as much your duty, if there
were but one ; for, think, if you saved but
one soul,  is that not worth living for, Tasie ? "
Mr Durant said.

Oh yes, yes, papa. I only say it is a little
hard. Of course that is the test of duty.
Tell Frances, please, when you write, Miss
Waring, there is to be a bazaar for the new
church ; and I daresay she could send or dome
something  two or three of her nice little
sketches. People like that sort of thing.
Generally things at bazaars are so useless.
Knitted things, everybody has got such shoals
of them ; but a water-colour  you know that
always sells."

"I will tell Fan," said Constance, "when I
write  but that is not often. We are neither
of us very good correspondents."

You should tell your papa," went on Mrs
Durant, " of that little place which I always say
I discovered. Miss Waring. Such a nice little
place, and quite cool and cheap. Nobody goes ;
there is not a tourist passing by once in a fortnight.
Mr Waring would like it, I know. Don't
you think Mr Waring would like it, papa ? "

That depends, my dear, upon so many circumstances
over which he has no control  such
as, which way the wind is blowing, and if he
has the books he wants, and- "

Papa, you must not laugh at Mr Waring.
He is a dear. I will not hear a word that is
not nice of Mr AVaring," cried Tasie.

This championship of her father was more
than Constance could bear. She rose from
her seat Quickly, and declared that she must
go.

So soon ? " said sirs Durant, holding the
hand which Constance had held out to her, '
and looking up with keen eyes and spectacles.
And we have not said a word yet of the event,
and all about it, and why it was. But I think
we can give a guess at why it was."

What event ? " Constance said, with chill
surprise : as if she cared what was going on in
their little world !

Ah, how can you ask me, my dear ? The
last event, that took us all so much by surprise.
I am afraid, I am sadly afraid, you are not
without blame."

Oh mamma ! ]Miss Waring will think we

do nothing but gossip. But you must remember
there is so little going on, that we

can't help remarking And perhaps it

was quite true what they said, that poor Captain
Gaunt "

Oh, if it is anything about Captain Gaunt,"
said Constance, hastily withdrawing her hand ;
I know so little about the people here "

Tasie followed her to the door. " You must
not mind," she said, " what mamma says. She
does not mean anything  it is only her way.
She always thinks there must be reasons for
things. Now I," said Tasie, " know that very
often there are no reasons for anything."
Having; uttered this oracle, she allowed the
visitor to go down-stairs. " And you will not
forget to tell Frances," she said, looking over
the balustrade. In a little house like that
of the Durants the stairs in England would
have been wood, and shabby ones ; but here
they were marble, and of imposing appearance.
"Any little thing I should be thankful for,"
said Tasie ; "or she might pick up a few trifles
from one of the Japanese shops ; but watercolours
are what I should prefer. Good-bye,

dear Miss Waring. Oh, it is not good-bye
for good ; I shall certainly come to see you
before we go away ! "

Constance had not gone half-way along the
Marina when she met General Gaunt, who
looked grave, but yet greeted her kindly.
"We are going tomorrow," he said. "My
wife is so very busy, I do not know if she
will be able to find time to call to say goodbye."


I hope you don't think so badly of me as
she does. General Gaunt ? " 

Badly, my dear young lady ! You must
know that is impossible," said the old soldier,
shuffling a little from one foot to the other.
And then he added, "Ladies are a little unreasonable.
And if they think you have interfered
with the little finger of a child of

theirs But I hope you will let me have

the pleasure of paying my farewell visit in the
morning."

Good-bye, General," Constance said. She
held her head high, and walked proudly away
past all the empty hotels and shops, not heeding
the sun, which still played down upon her.

though from a lower level. She cared nothing
for these people, she said to herself vehemently
: and yet the mere feeling of the farewells
in the air added a forlorn aspect to the
stagnation of the place. Everybody was going
away except her father and herself. She felt
as if the preparations and partings, and all the
pleasure of Tasie in the "work" elsewhere, and
her little fussiness about the bazaar, were all
offences to herself, Constance, who was not
thought good enough even to ask a contribution
from. No one thought Constance good
for anything, except to blame her for ridiculous
impossibilities, such as not marrying
Captain Gaunt. It seemed that this was the
only thing which she was supposed capable of
doing. And while all the other people went
away, she was to stay here to be burned brown,
and perhaps to get fever, unused as she was
to a blazing summer like this. She had to stay
here  she, who was so young and could enjoy
everything  while all the old people, to whom
it could not matter very much, went away.
She felt angry, offended, miserable, as she went
in and got herself ready mechanically for dinner.

She knew her father would take no notice, 
would probably receive the news of the departure
of the others without remark. He cared
nothing, not nearly so much as about a new
book. And she, throbbing with pain, discomfiture,
loneliness, and anger, was alone to bear
the burden of this stillness, and of the uninhabited
world.

CHAPTER XL.

Waring was not so indifferent to the looks
or feelings of his daughter as appeared. After
all, he was not entirely buried in his books.
To Frances, who had grown up by his side
without particularly attracting his attention, he
had been kindly indifferent, not feeling any
occasion to concern himself about the child,
who always had managed to amuse herself, and
never had made any call upon him. But Constance
had come upon him as a stranger, as an
individual with a character and faculties of her
own, and it had not been without curiosity that
he had watched her to see how she would reconcile
herself with the new circumstances. Her
absorption in the amusement provided for herby
young Gaunt had somewhat revolted her
father, who set it down as one of the usual

exhibitions of love in idleness, which every one
sees by times as he makes his way through the
world. He had not interfered, being thoroughly
convinced that interference is useless, in addition
to that reluctance to do anything which
had grown upon him in his recluse life. But
since Gaunt had disappeared without a sign 
save that of a little irritability, a little unusual
gravity on the part of Constance  her father had
been roused somewhat to ask what it meant.
Had the young fellow "behaved badly," as
people say? Had he danced attendance upon
her all this time only to leave her at the end ?
It did not seem possible, when he looked at
Constance with her easy air of mastery, and
thought of the shy, eager devotion of the young
soldier and his impassioned looks. But yet he
was aware that in such cases all prognostic
filled, that the conqueror was sometimes conquered,
and the intended victim remained master
of the field. Waring observed his daughter
more closely than ever on this evening. She
was distraite, self-absorbed, a little impatient,
sometimes not noting what he said to her,
sometimes answering in an irritable tone. The
VOL. in. I

replies she made to him when she did reply
showed that her mind was ramming on other
matters. She said abruptly, in the middle of a
little account he was moving; her, with the idea
of amusing her, of one of the neighbouring
mountain castles, "Do you knows, papa, that
everybody is going away ? "

Waring felt, with a certain discomfiture,
which was comic, yet annoying, like one who
has been suddenly pulled up with a good deal
of " way " on him, and stops himself with difficulty
 "a branch of the old Dorian," he went
on, having these words in his very mouth ; and
then, after a precipitate pause, 'eh? Oh,
everybody is ? Yes, I know. They always
do at this time of the year."

It will be rather miserable, don't you think,
when every one is gone ? "

"My dear Constance, 'every one' means the
Gaunts and Durants. I could not have supposed
you cared."

For the Gaunts and Durants  oh no," said
Constance. " But to think there is not a soul 
no one to speak to  not even the clergyman,
not even Tasie." She lashed, but there was

a certain look of alarm in her face, as if the
emergency was one which was unprecedented.
That frightens one, in spite of one's self.
And what are we g-oino; to do ? "

It was Waring now who hesitated, and did
not know how to reply. " We ! " he said.
"To tell the truth, I had not thought of it.
Frances was always Cjuite willing to stay at
home."

But I am not Frances, papa."

I beg your pardon, my dear ; that is quite
true. Of course I never supposed so. You
understand that for myself I prefer always not
to be disturbed  to go on as I am. But you,

a young lady fresh from society Had I

supposed that you cared for the Durants, for
instance, I should have thought of some way
of making up for their absence ; but I thought,
on the whole, you would prefer their absence."

That has nothing to do with it," said Constance.
" I don't care for the individuals  they
are all rather bores. Captain Gaunt," she
added, resolutely, introducing the name with
determination, " became very much of a bore
before he went awa3 But the thing is to have

nobody  nobody ! One has to put up with
bores very often ; but to have nobody, actually
not a soul ! The circumstances are quite unprecedented."


There was something in her air as she said
this which amused her father. It was the air
of a social philosopher brought to a pause in
the face of an unimagined dilemma, rather than
of a young lady stranded upon a desert shore
where no society was to be found.

No doubt," he said, '' you never knew anything
of the kind before."

"Never," said Constance, with warmth.
'' People who are a nuisance, often enough ; but
nobody, never before."

I prefer nobody," said her father.

She raised her eyes to him, as if he were one
of the problems to which, for the first time, her
attention was seriously called. "Perhaps," she
said; "but then you are not in a natural
condition, papa  no more than a hermit in
the desert, who has forsworn society altogether."


Allowing that I am abnormal, Constance, for
the argument's sake "

"And so was Frances, more or less  that is,
she could content herself with the peasants and
fishermen, who, of course, are just as good as
anybody else, if you make up your mind to it,
and understand their ways. But I am not
abnormal," Constance said, her colour rising a
little. " I want the society of my own kind.
It seems unnatural to you, probably, just as
your way of thinking seems unnatural to me."

I have seen both ways," said Waring, in
his turn becoming animated; "and so far as
my opinion goes, the peasants and fishermen
are a thousand times better than what you call
Society ; and solitude, with one's own thoughts
and pursuits, the best of all."

There was a momentary pause, and then Constance
said, "That may be, paDa. What is
best in the abstract is not the question. In
that way, mere nothing would be the best of
all, for there could be no harm in it."

"Nor any good."

"That is what I mean on my side  nor any
good. It might be better to be alone  then (I
suppose) you would never be bored, never feel
the need of anything, the mere sound of a

voice, some one going by. That may be your
way of thinking, but it is not mine. If one
has no society, one had better die at once and
save trouble. That is what I should like todo."


A certain feminine confusion in her argument,
produced by haste and the stealing in of personal
feeling, stopped Constance, who was too
clear-headed not to see when she had got involved.
Her confusion had the usual effect of
touching her temper and causing a little crise
of sentiment. The tears came to her eyes.
She could be heroic, and veil her personal grievances
like a social martyr so long as this was
necessary in presence of the world ; but in the
present case it was not necessary : it was
better, in fact, to let nature have its way.

"That will not be necessary, I hope," said
Waring, somewhat coldly. He thought of
Frances with a sigh, who never bothered him,
who was contented with everything ! and carried
on her own little thoughts, whatever they
might be, her little drawings, her little life, so
tranquilly, knowing nothing better. What was
he to do, with the responsibility upon his hands

of this other creature ? whom all the same he
could not shake off, nor even  as a gentleman,
if not as a father  allow to perceive what an
embarrassment she was. "Without going sofar,"
he said, 'ewe must consult what is best to
be done, since you feel it so keenly. My ordinary
habits even of villeggiatura would not
please you any better than staying at home, I
fear. We used to go up to Dolceacqua, Frances
and I ; or to Eza ; or to Porto Fino, on the
opposite coast,  at no one of which places was
there a soul  as you reckon souls  to be
seen."

That is a great pity," said Constance ; " for
even Frances, though she may have been a
Stoic born, must have wanted to see a human
creature who spoke English now and then."

A Stoic ! It never occurred to me that she
was a Stoic," said Waring, with astonishment,
and a sudden sense of offence. The idea that
his little Frances was not perfectly hajDpy, that
she had anything to put up with, anything to
forgive, was intolerable to him ; and it was a
new idea. He reflected that she had consented
to go away with an ease which surprised him

at the time. Was it possible ? This suggestion
disturbed him much in his certainty that
his was absolutely the right way.

If all these expedients are unsatisfactory,"
he said, sharply, " perhaps you will come to my
assistance, and tell me where you would be
satisfied to go."

Papa," said Constance, " I am going to
make a suggestion which is a very bold one ;
perhaps you will be angry  but I don't do it to
make you angry ; and, please, don't answer me
till you have thought a moment. It is just
this  Why shouldn't we go home ? "

Go home ! " The words flew from him in
the shock and wonder. He grew pale as he
stared at her, too much thunderstruck to be
angry, as she said.

Constance put up her hand to stop him.
I said, please don't answer till you have
thought."

And then they sat for a minute or more
looking at each other from opposite sides of the
table  in that pause which comes when a new
and strange thought has been thrown into the
midst of a turmoil which it has power to excite

or to allay. Waring went through a great
many phases of feeling while he looked at his
young daughter sitting undaunted opposite to
him, not afraid of him, treating him as no one
else had done for years  as an equal, as a reasonable
being, whose wishes were not to be deferred
to superstitiously, but whose reasons for
what he did and said were to be put to the test,
as in the case of other men. And he knew
that he could not beat down this cool and self-possessed
girl, as fathers can usually crush the
young creatures whom they have had it in
their power to reprove and correct from their
cradles. Constance was an independent intelligence.
She was a gentlewoman, to whom
he could not be rude any more than to the
Queen. This hushed at once the indignant
outcry on his lips. He said at last, calmly
enough, with only a little sneer piercing
through his forced smile, "We must take care,
like other debaters, to define what we mean
exactly by the phrases we use. Home, for
example. What do you mean by home ? My
home, in the ordinary sense of the word, is
here."

"My dear father," said Constance, with the
air, somewhat exasperated by his folly, of a
philosopher with a neophyte, " I wish you would
put the right names to things. Yes, it is quite
necessary to define, as you say. How can an
Englishman, with all his duties in his own
country, deriving his income from it, with
houses belonging to him, and relations, and
everything that makes up life  how can he, I
ask you, say that home, in the ordinary sense
of the word, is here ? What is the ordinary
sense of the word ? " she said, after a pause 
looking at him with the indignant frown of
good sense, and that little air of repressed exasperation,
as of the wiser towards the foolish,
which made Waring, in the midst of his own
just anger and equally just discomfiture, feel a
certain amusement too. He kept his temper
with the greatest pains and care. Domenico
had left the room when the discussion began,
and the lamp which hung over the table lighted
impartially the girl's animated countenance,
pressing forward in the strength of a position
which she felt to be invulnerable, and the
father's clouded and withdrawing face,  for he

bad taken his eves from lier, with unconscious
cowardice, when she fixed him with that unwavering
gaze.

I drill allow that you put the position very
strongly  as well as a little undutifully," he
said.

"Undutifully? Is it one's duty to one's
father to be silly  to give up one's power of
ludscino' what is wrong; and what is rig-bt ? I
am sure, papa, you are much too candid a
thinker to suggest that."

CO

What could he say? He was very angry;
but this candid thinker took him quite at unawares.
It tickled while it defied him. And
he was a very candid thinker, as she said.
Perhaps he had been treated illogically in the
great crisis of his life ; . for, as a matter of fact,
when an argument was set before him, when it
was a good argument, even if it told against
him, he woidd never refuse to acknowledge it.
And conscience, perhaps, had said to him on
various occasions what his daughter now said.
He could bring forward nothing against it. He
could only say, I choose it to be so ; and this
would bear no weight with Constance. 'you

are not a bad dialectician," he said. " Where
did you learn your logic ? Women are not
usually strong in that point."

Women are said to be just what it pleases
men to represent them," said Constance. " Listen,
papa. Frances would not have said that
to you that I have just said. But don't you
know that she would have thought it all the
same ? Because it is quite evident and certain,
you know. What did you say the other day
of that Italian, that Count something or other,
who has the castle there on the hill, and never
comes near it from one year's end to another ? "

"That is quite a different matter. There is
no reason why he should not spend a part of
every year there."

And what reason is there with you ? Only
what ought to be an additional reason for going

that you have " Here Constance paused

a little, and grew pale. And her father looked
up at her, growing pale too, anticipating a crisis.
Another word, and he would be able to crush
this young rebel, this meddler with things
which concerned her not. But Constance was
better advised; she said, hurriedly  "relations

and dependants, and ever so many things to
look to  things that cannot be settled without

you."

And what may these be ? '' He had been so
fully prepared for the introduction at this point
of the mother, from whom Constance, too, had
fled  the wife, who was, as he said to himself,
the cause of all that was inharmonious in his
own life  that the withdrawal of her name left
him breathless, with the force of an impulse
which was not needed. " What are the things
that cannot be settled without me ? "

Yell  for one thing, papa, your daughter's
marriage," said Constance, still looking at him
steadily, but with a sudden glow of colour
covering her face.

My daughter's marriage ? " he repeated,
vaguely, once more taken b} surprise. " What !
has Frances already, in the course of a few
weeks



"It is very probable," said Constance, calmly.
But I was not thinking of Frances. Perhaps
you forget that I am your daughter too, and
that your sanction is needed for me as well as
for her."

Here Waring leant towards lier over the
table. "Is this how it has ended?" he said.
Have you really so little perception of what is
possible for a girl of your breeding, as to think
that a life in India with young Gaunt ? "

Constance grew crimson from her hair to the
edge of her white dress. " Captain Gaunt ? "
she said, for the first time avoiding her father's
eye. Then she burst into a laugh, which she
felt was weak and half hysterical in its self-consciousness.
" Oh no," she said ; " that was
only amusement  that was nothing. I hope,
indeed, I have a little more  perception, as you

say. What I meant was " Her eyes took

a softened look, almost of entreaty, as if she
wanted him to help her out.

I did not know you had any second string
to your bow," he said. Now was his time to
avenge himself, and he took advantage of it.

Papa," said Constance, drawing herself up
majestically, "I have no second string to my
bow. I have made a mistake. It is a thing
which may happen to any one. But when one
does so, and sees it, the thing to do is to acknowledge
and remedy it, I think. Some

people, I am aware, are not of the same opinion.
But I, for one, am not going to keep it up."

"You refer to  a mistake which has not been
acknowledged ? "

Papa, don't let us quarrel, you and me. I
am very lonely  oh, dreadfully lonely ! I want
you to stand by me. AVhat I refer to is my
affair, not any one's else. I find out now that
Claude  of course I told you his name  Claude
would suit me very well  better than anyone
else. There are drawbacks, perhaps ; but
I understand him, and he understands me.
That is the teat things isn't it?"

"It is a Teat things if it lasts."

Oh, it would last. I know him as well as
I know myself."

"I see," said Waring, slowly. "You have
made up your mind to return to England, and
accomplish the destiny laid out for you. A
very wise resolution, no doubt. It is only a
pity that you did not think better of it at first,
instead of turning my life upside down and
causing everybody so much trouble. Never
mind. It is to be hoped that your resolution
will hold now ; and there need be no more

trouble in that case about finding a place in
which to pass the summer. You are going, I
presume  home ? "

This time the tears came very visibly to
Constance's eyes. There was impatience and
vexation in them, as well as feeling. " Adhere
is home ? " she said. " I will have to ask you.
The home I have been used to is my sister's
now. Oh, it is hard, I see, very hard, when
you have made a mistake once, to mend it !
The only home that I know of is an old house
where the master has not been for a long time
which is all overgrown with trees, and tumbling
into ruins for anything I know. But I suppose,
unless you forbid me, that I have a right

to go there  and perhaps aunt Caroline "

"Of what are you speaking?" he said, making
an effort to keep his voice steady.
"I am speaking of Hilborough, papa."
At this he sprang up from his chair, as if
touched by some intolerable recollection ; then
composing himself, sat down again, putting
force upon himself, restraining the sudden impulse
of excitement. After a time, he said,
Hilborough. I had almost forgotten the name."

Yes,  SO I thought. You forget that you
have a home, which is cooler and quieter, as
quiet as any of your villages here  where you
could be as solitary as you liked, or see people
if you liked  where you are the natural master.
Oh, I thought you must have forgotten it ! In
summer it is delightful. You are in the middle
of a wood, and yet you are in a nice English
house. Oh, an English house is very different
from those Palazzo. Papa, there is your village
as you call it, just what you want, far,
far better than Mrs Durant's cheap little place,
that she asked me to tell you of, or Mrs Gaunt s
pension in Switzerland, or Homburg. They
think you are poor ; but you know quite well
you are not poor. Take me to Hilborough,
papa ; oh, take me home ! It is there I want
to go."

"Hilborough," he repeated to himself 
"Hilborough. I never thought of that. I
suppose she has a right to it. Poor old place !
Yes, I suppose, if the girl chooses to call it
home "

He rose up quite slowly this time, and went,
as was his usual custom, towards the door which

VOL. III. K

led through the other rooms to the loggia, but
without paying any attention to the movements
of Constance, which he generally followed
instead of directing. She rose too, and went to
him, and stole her hand through his arm. The
awning had been put aside, and the soft night-air
blew in their faces as they stepped out upon
that terrace in which so much of their lives
was spent. The sea shone beyond the roofs of
the houses on the Marina, and swept outwards
in a pale clearness towards the sky, which was
soft in summer blue, with the stars sprinkled
faintly over the vast vault, too much light still
remaining: in heaven and earth to show them at
their best. Constance walked with her father,
close to his side, holding his arm, almost as tall
as he was, and keeping step and pace with him.
She said nothing more, but stood by him ashe
walked to the leds-e of the loo-oia and looked
out towards the west, where there was still a
lingering touch of gold. He was not at all in
the habit of expressing admiration of the landscape,
but to-night, as if he were making a
remark called forth by the previous argument,
It is all very lovely," he said.

Yes ; but not more lovely than home," said
the girl. " I have been at Hilborough in a .
summer night, and everything was so sweet 
the stars all looking through the trees as if
they were watching the house  and the scent
of the flowers. Don't you remember the white
rose at Hilborough  what they call Mother's
tree ? "

He started a little, and a thrill ran through
him. She could feel it in his arm  a thrill of
recollection, of things beyond the warfare and
turmoil of his life, on the other, the boyish side
recollections of quiet and of peace.

I think I will go to my own room a little,
Constance, and smoke my cigarette there. You
have brought a great many things to my mind."

She gave his arm a close pressure before she
let it go. " Oh, take me to Hilborough ! Let
us go to our own home, papa."

I will think of it," he replied.

CHAPTER XLI.

Frances ate a mournful little dinner alone, after
the agitations to which she had been subject.
Her mother did not return ; and Markham, who
had been expected up to the last moment, did
not appear. It was unusual to her now to
spend so many hours alone, and her mind was
oppressed not only by the strange scene with
Nelly Winterbourn, but more deeply still by
Claude's news. George Gaunt had always
been a figure of great interest to Frances ; and
his appearance here in the world which was as
yet so strange, with his grave, indeed melancholy
face, had awakened her to a sense of
sympathy and friendliness which no one had
called forth in her before. He was as strange
as she was to that dazzling puzzle of society,
sat silent as she did, roused himself into interest
like her about matters which did not much

interest anybody else. She had felt amid so
many strangers that here was one whom she
could always understand, whose thoughts she
could follow, who said what she had been about
to say. It made no difference to Frances that
he had not signalled her out for special notice.
She took that quietly, as a matter of course.
Her mother, Markham, the other people who
appeared and disappeared in the house, were
all more interesting, she felt, than she ; but
sometimes her eyes had met those of Captain
Gaunt in sympathy, and she had perceived
that he could understand her, whether he
wished to do so or not. And then he was
Mrs Gaunt's youngest, of whom she had heard
so much. It seemed to Frances that his childhood
and her own had got all entangled, so
that she could not be quite sure whether this
and that incident of the nursery had been told
of him or of herself She was more familiar
with him than he could be with her. And
to hear that he was unhappy, that he was in
danger, a stranger among people who preyed
upon him, and yet not to be able to help him,
was almost more than she could bear.

She went up to the empty drawing-room,
with the soft illumination of many lights, which
was habitual there, which lay all decorated
and bright, sweet with spring flowers, full of
pictures and ornaments, like a deserted palace,
and she felt the silence and beauty of it to
be dreary and terrible. It was like a desert
to her, or rather like a prison, in which she
must stay and wait and listen, and, whatever
miofht come, do nothing; to hinder it. What
could she do ? A girl could not go out into
those haunts, where Claude Ramsay, though he
was so delicate, could go ; she could not put
herself forward, and warn a man, who would
think he knew much better than she could do.
She sat down and tried to read, and then got
up, and glided about from one table to another,
from one picture to another, looking vaguely at
a score of things without seeing them. Then
she stole within the shadow of the curtain, and
looked out at the carriages which went and
came, now and then drawing up at adjacent
doors. It made her heart beat to see them
approaching, to think that perhaps they were
coming here  her mother perhaps ; perhaps Sir

Thomas ; perhaps Markham. Was it possible
that this night, of all others  this night, when
her heart seemed to appeal to earth and heaven
for some one to help her  nobody would come ?
It was Frances' first experience of these vigils,
which to some women fill up so much of life.
There had never been any anxiety at Cordillera,
any disturbing influence. She had always
known where to find her father, who could solve
every problem and chase away every difficulty.
Would he, she wondered, be able to do so now ?
Would he, if he were here, go out for her, and
find George Gaunt, and deliver him from his
pursuers ? But Frances could not say to herself
that he would have done so. He was not
fond of disturbing himself. He would have
said, "It is not my business ; " he would have
refused to interfere, as Claude did. And what
could she do, a girl, by herself ? Lady Markham
had been very anxious to keep him out
of harm's way ; but she had said plainly that
she would not forsake her own son in order
to save the son of another woman. Frances
was wandering painfully through labyrinths of
such thoughts, racking her brain with vain

questions as to what it was possible to do, when
Markham's hansom, stopping with a sudden
clang at the door, drove her thoughts away, or
at least made a break in them, and replaced,
by a nervous tremor of excitement and alarm,
the pangs of anxious expectation and suspense.
She would rather not have seen Markham at
that moment. She was fond of her brother.
It grieved her to hear even Lady Markham
speak of him in questionable terms : all the
natural prejudices of affectionate youth were
enlisted on his side ; but, for the first time,
she felt that she had no confidence in Markham,
and wished that it had been any one
but he.

He came in with a alio-lit overcoat over his
evening clothes,  he had been dining out ; but
he did not meet Frances with the unembarrassed
countenance which she had thought
would have made it so difficult to speak to him
about what she had heard. He came in hurriedly,
looking round the drawing-room with
a rapid investigating glance before he took
any notice of her. "Where is the mother?"
he asked, hurriedly.

She has not come back," said Frances,
divining from his look that it was unnecessary
to say more.

Markham sat down abruptly on a sofa near.
He did not make any rejly to her, but put
up the handle of his cane to his mouth with
a curious mixture of the comic and the tragic,
which struck her in spite of herself. He did
not require to put any question ; he knew very
well where his mother was, and all that was
happening. The sense of the great crisis which
had arrived took from him all power of speech,
paralysing him with mingled awe and dismay.
But yet the odd little figure on the sofa sucking
his cane, his hat in his other hand, his features
all fallen into bewilderment and helplessness,
was absurd. Out of the depths of Frances'
trouble came a hysterical titter against her will.
This roused him also. He looked at her with a
faint evanescent smile.

Laughing at me, Fan ? Well, I don't wonder.
I am a nice fellow to have to do with a tragedy.
Screaming farce is more like my style."

I did not laugh, Markham ; I have not any
heart for laughing," she said.

Oh, didn't you ? But it sounded like it.
Fan, tell me, lias the mother been long away,
and did any one see that unfortunate girl when
she was here ? "

No, Markham  unless it were Mr Ramsay ;
he saw her drive away with mamma."

"The worst of old gossips," he said, desperately
sucking his cane, with a gloomy brow.
"I don't know an old woman so bad. No
quarter there  that is the word. Fan, the
mother is a trump. Nothing is so bad when
she is mixed up in it. Was Nelly much cut up,
or was she in one of her wild fits ? Poor girl !
You must not think badly of Nelly. She has
had hard lines. She never had a chance : an
old brute, used up, that no woman could take
to. But she has done her duty by him, Fan."
She does not think so, Markham."
"Oh, by Jove, she was giving you that, was
she ? Fan, I sometimes think poor Nelly's osier
head a little. Poor Nelly, poor girl ! I
don't want to set her up for an example ; but
she has done her duty by him. Eemember this,
whatever you may hear. I  am rather a good
one to know."

He gave a curious little chuckle as he said
this  a sort of strangled laugh, of which he was
ashamed, and stifled it in its birth.

"Markham, I want to speak to you  about
something very serious."

He gave a keen look at her sideways from
the corner of one eye. Then he said, in a sort
of whisper to himself, " Preaching ; " but added
in his own voice, " Fire away, Fan," with a look
of resignation.

Markham  it is about Captain Gaunt."

Oh ! " he cried. He gave a little laugh.
You frightened me, my dear. I thought at
this time of the day you were going to give mea
sermon from the depths of your moral experience.
Fan. So long as it isn't about poor Nelly,
say what you please about Gaunt. What about
Gaunt ? "

"Oh, Markham, Mr Ramsay told me  and
mamma has been frightened ever since he came.
What have you done with him, Markham?
Don't you remember the old General at Cordillera
 and his mother? And he had just come
from India, for his holiday, after years and
years. And they are poor  that is to say, they

are well enough off for them ; but they are not
like mamma and you. They have not got
horses and carriages ; they don't live  as you
do."

As I do ! I am the poorest little beggar
living, and that is the truth, Fan."

"The poorest! Markham, you may think
you can laugh at me. I am not clever ; I am
quite ignorant  that I know. But how can you
say you are poor ? You don't know what it is
to be poor. When they go away in the summer,
they choose little quiet places ; they spare everything
they can. That is one thing I know
better than you do. To say you are poor ! "

He rose up and came towards her, and taking
her hands in his, gave them a squeeze which
was painful, though he was unconscious of it.
*fan," he said, "all that is very pretty, and
true for you ; but if I hadn't been poor, do
you think all this would have happened as it
has done? Do you think I'd have stood by
and let Nelly marry that fellow? Do you

think ? Hush ! there's the mother, with

news; no doubt she's got news. Fan, what
d'ye think it'll be ? "

He held lier hands tight, and pressed them
till she had almost cried out, looking in her
face with a sort of nervous smile which twitched
at the corners of his mouth, looking in her
eyes as if into a mirror where he could seethe
reflection of something, and so be spared
the pain of looking directly at it. She saw
that the subject which was of so much interest
to her had passed clean out of his head. His
own affairs were uppermost in Markham's mind,
as is generally the case whenever a man can be
supposed to have any affairs at all of his own.

And Frances, kept in this position, as a sort
of mirror in which he could see the reflection
of his mother's face, saw Lady Markham come
Id, looking very pale and fatigued, with that
air of having worn her outdoor dress for hours
which gives a sort of haggard aspect to weariness.
She gave a glance round, evidently without
perceiving very clearly who was there, then
sank wearily upon the sofa, loosening her cloak.
It is all over," she said in a low tone, as if
speaking to herself  " it is all over. Of course
I could not come away before "

Markham let q-q Frances' hands without a

word. He walked away to the further window,
and drew the curtain aside and looked out.
Why, he could not have told, nor with what
purpose  with a vague intention of making sure
that the hansom which stood there so constantly
was at the door.

What is Markham doing ? " said his mother,
in a faint querulous tone. " Tell him not to
fidget with these curtains. It worries me. I
am tired, and my nerves are all wrong. Yes,
you can take my cloak, Frances. Don't call
anybody. No one will come here to-night.
Markham, did you hear what I said ? It is allover.
I waited till "

He came towards her from the end of the
room with a sort of smile upon his grey sandy-coloured
face, his mouth and eyebrows twitching,
his eyes screwed up so that nothing but two
keen little glimmers of reflection were visible.
You are not the sort," he said, with a little
tremor in his voice, *'to forsake a man dien he
is down." He had his hands in his pockets, his
shoulders pushed ujd ; nowhere could there have
been seen a less tragic figure. Yet every line
of his odd face was touched and moving with

feeling, totally beyond any power of expression
in words.

"It was not a happy scene," she said. "He
sent for her at the last. Sarah Winterbourn
was there at the bedside. She was fond of
him, I believe. A woman cannot help being
fond of her brothers however little he may
deserve it. Nelly "

Here Markham broke in with a sound that
was like, yet not like, his usual laugh. " How's
Nelly ? " he said abruptly, without sequence or
reason. Lady Markham paused to look at him,
and then went on 

Nelly trembled so, I could scarcely keep her
up. She wanted not to go ; she said. What was
the good ? But I got her persuaded at last. A

man dying like that is a  is a It is not a

pleasant sight. He signed to her to go and kiss
him." Lady Markham shuddered slightly. " He
was past speaking  I mean, he was past understanding;
I  I wish I had not seen it. One

can't get such a scene out of one's mind."

She put up her hand and pressed her fingers
upon her eyes, as if the picture was there, and
she was tr3dng to get rid of it. Markham had

turned away again, yond was examining, or seeming
to examine, the flowers in a jardiniere. Now
and then he made a movement, as if he would
have stopped the narrative. Frances, trembling
and crying with natural horror and distress, had
loosened her mother's cloak and taken ofi" her
bonnet while she went on speaking. Lady
Markham's hair, though always covered with a
caps, was as brown and smooth as her daughter's.
Frances put her hand upon it timidly, and
smoothed the satin braid. It was all she could
do to show the emotion, the sympathy in her
heart ; and she was as much startled in mind as
physically, when Lady Markham suddenly threw
one arm round her and rested her head upon
her shoulder. "Thank God," the mother cried,
that here is one, whatever may happen, that

will never, never ! Frances, my love, don't

mind what I say. I am worn out, and good for
nothings. Go and poet me a little wine, for I
have no strength left in me."

Markham turned to her with his chuckle more
marked than ever, as Frances left the room. " I
am glad to see that you have strength to remember
what you're about, mammy, in spite of

that little break-down. It wouldn't do, would
it ?  to let Frances believe that a match like
Winterbourn was a thing she would never 

never ! though it wasn't amiss for poor

Nelly, in her day."

'' Markham, you are very hard upon me. The
child did not understand either one thing or the
other. And I was not to blame about Nelly ;
you cannot say I was to blame. If I had been,
I think to-night might make up : that ghastly
face, and Nelly's close to it, with her eyes
staring in horror, the poor little mouth "

Markham's exclamation was short and sharp
like a pistol-shot. It was a monosyllable, but
not one to be put into print. '' Stop that ! " he
said. " It can do no good going over it. Who's
with her now ? "

"I could not stay, Markham; besides, it
would have been out of place. She has her
maid, who is very kind to her ; and I made
them give her a sleeping-draught  to make
her forget her trouble. Sarah Winterbourn
laughed out when I asked for it. The doctor
was shocked. It was so natural that poor little
Nelly, who never saw anything so ghastly, never

VOL. III. L

was in the house with death ; never saw, much
less touched "

I can understand Sarah," he said, with a
grim smile.

Frances came back with the wine, and her
mother paused to kiss her as she took it from
her hand. " I am sure you have had a wearing,
miserable evening. You look quite pale, my
dear. I ought not to speak of such horrid
things before you at your age. But you see,
Markham, she saw Nelly, and heard her wild
talk. It was all excitement and misery and
overstrain ; for in reality she had nothing to
reproach herself with  nothing, Frances. He
proved that by sending for her, as I tell you.
He knew, and everybody knows, that poor
Nelly had done her duty by him."

Frances paid little attention to this strange
defence. She was, as her mother knew, yet
could scarcely believe, totally incapable of
comprehending the grounds on which Nelly
was so strongly asserted to have done her
duty, or of understanding that not to have
wronged her husband in one unpardonable
way, gave her a claim upon the applause of

her fellows. Fortunately, indeed, Frances was
defended against all questions on this subject
by the possession of that unsuspected trouble
of her own, of which she felt that for the night
at least it was futile to say anything. Nelly
was the only subject upon which her mother
could speak, or for which Markham had any
ears. They did not say anything, either after
Frances left them or in her presence, of the
future, of which, no doubt, their minds were
full  of which Nelly's mind had been so full
when she burst into Lady Markham's room in
her finery, on that very day ; of what was to
happen after, what " the widow "  that name
against which she so rebelled, but which was
already fixed upon her in all the clubs and
drawing-rooms  was to do ? that was a question
which was not openly put to each other
by the two persons chiefly concerned.

When Markham appeared in his usual haunts
that night, he was aware of being regarded with
many significant looks ; but these he was of
course prepared for, and met with a countenance
in which it would have puzzled the wisest
to find any special expression.

Lady Markliam went to bed as soon as her
son left her. She had said she could receive
no one, being much fatigued. " My lady have
been with Mrs Winterbourn," was the answer
made to Sir Thomas when he came to the door
late, after a tedious debate in the House of
Commons. Sir Thomas, like everybody, was
full of speculations on this point, though he
regarded it from a point of view different
from the popular one. The world was occupied
with the question whether Nelly would
marry Markham, now that she was rich and
free. But what occupied Sir Thomas, who
had no doubt on this subject, was the  afterwards
? What would Lady Markham do ?
"Was it not now at last the moment for Warn
o- to come home ?

Li Lady Markham's mind, some similar
thoughts were afloat. She had said that she
was fatigued ; but fatigue does not mean
sleep, at least not at Lady Markham's age.
It means retirement, silence, and leisure for
the far more fatiguing exertion of thought.
When her maid had been dismissed, and the
faint night-lamp was all that was left in her

curtained, cushioned, luxurious room, the questions
that arose in her mind were manifold.
Markham's marriage would make a wonderful
difference in his mother's life. Her house in
Eaton Square she would no doubt retain ; but
the lovely little house in the Isle of Wight, which
had been always hers  and the solemn establishment
in the country, would be hers no more.
These two things of themselves would make a
great difference. But what was of still more
consequence was, that Markham himself would
be hers no more. He would belong to his wife.
It was impossible to believe of him that he
could ever be otherwise than affectionate and
kind; but what a difference when Markham
was no longer one of the household ! And
then the husband, so long cut off, so far separated,
much by distance, more by the severance
of all the habits and mutual claims which bind
people together  with him what would follow ?
What would be the effect of the change ?
Questions like these, diversified by perpetual
efforts of imagination to bring; before her ao;ain
the tragical scene of which she had been a witness,
 the dying man, with his hoarse attempts

to be intelligible ; the young, haggard, liomfied
countenance of Nelly, compelled to approach
the awful figure, for which she had a child's
dread,  kept her awake long into the night. It
is seldom that a woman of her age sees herself
on the eve of such changes without any will of
hers. It seemed to have overwhelmed her ina
moment, although, indeed, she had foreseen
the catastrophe. What would Nelly do ? was
the question all the world was asking. But
Lady Markham had another which occupied
her as much on her own side. Waring, what
would he do ?

Chapter XLII.

The question which disturbed Frances, wliicli
nobody knew or cared for, was just as little
likely to gain attention next day as it had been
on the evening of Mr Winterbourn's death.
Lady Markham returned to Xelly before breakfast
; she was with her most of the day ; and
Markham, though he lent an apparent attention
to what Frances said to him, was still far
too much absorbed in his own subject to be
easily moved by hers. " Gaunt ? Oh, he is all
rioht," he said.

"Will you speak to him, Markham ? Will
you warn him ? Mr Ramsay says he is losing
all his money ; and I know, oh Markham, I
hioiv that he has not much to lose."

Claude is a little meddler. I assure you,
Fan, Gaunt knows his own affairs best""

"No," cried Frances: "when I tell you,
Markham, when I tell you 1 that they are
quite poor, really poor  not like you."

I have told you, my little dear, that I am
the poorest beggar in London."

Oh Markham ! and you drive about in
hansoms, and smoke cigars, all day."

Well, my dear, what would you have me
do ? Keep on trudging through the mud,
which would waste all my time ; or get on
the knife-board of an omnibus ? Well, these
are the only alternatives. The omnibuses have
their recommendation  they are fun ; but after
a while, society in that development palls upon
the intelligent observer. What do you want
me to do. Fan ? Come, I have a deal on my
mind ; but to please you, and to make you hold
your tongue, if there is anything I can do, I
will try."

You can do everything, Markham. Warn
him that he is wasting his money  that he is
spending what belongs to the old people  that
he is making himself wretched. Oh, don't
laugh, Markham ! Oh, if I were in your
place r I know what I should do  I would

get him to go home, instead of going to  those
places."

Which places, Fan ? "

Oh," cried the girl, exasperated to tears,
how can I tell ?  the places you know  the
places you have taken him to, Markham 
places where, if the poor General knew it, or
]airs Gaunt "

There you are making a mistake, little Fan.
The good people would think their son was in
very fine company. If he tells them the names
of the persons he meets, they will think "

"Then you know they will think wrong,
Markham ! " she cried, almost with violence,
keeping herself with a most strenuous effort
from an outburst of indignant weeping. He
did not reply at once ; and she thought he was
about to consider the question on its merits,
and endeavour to find out what he could do.
But she was undeceived when he spoke.

"AVhat day did you say, Fan, the funeral
was to be ? " he asked, with the air of a man
who has escaped from an unwelcome intrusion
to the real subject of his thoughts.

Sir Thomas found her alone, flushed and

miserable, drying her tears with a feverish little
angry hand. She was very much alone doing
these days, when Lady Markham was so often
with Nelly Winterbourn. Sir Thomas was
pleased to find her, having also an object of
his own. He soothed her, when he saw that
she had been crying. " Never mind me," he
said ; " but you must not let other people see
that you are feeling it so much : for sou cannot
be supposed to take any particular interest in
Winterbourn : and people will immediately suppose
that you and your mother are troubled
about the changes that must take place in the
house."

I was not thinking at all of Mrs Winter-bourn,"
cried Frances, with indignation.

"No, my dear; I knew you could not be.
Don't let any one but me see you crying.
Lady Markham will feel the marriage dreadfully,
I know. But now is our time for our
grand coup J'

What grand coup) ? " the girl said, with an
astonished look.

Have you forgotten what I said to you at
the Priory? One of the chief objects of my

life is to bring Waring back. It is intolerable
to think that a man of his abilities should be
banished for ever, and lost not only to his
country but his kind. Even if he were working
for the good of the race out there But

he is doing nothing but antiquities, so far as I
can hear, and there are plenty of antiquarians
good for nothing else. Frances, we must have
him home."

Home ! " she said. Her heart went back
with a bound to the rooms in the Palazzo withall
the green persian shut, and everything
dark and cool : it was getting warm in London,
but there were no such precautions taken.
ind the loggia at night, with the palm-trees
waving majestically their long drooping fans,
and the soft sound of the sea coming over the
houses of the Marina  ah, and the happy want
of thought, the pleasant vacancy, in which
nothing ever happened ! She drew a long
breath. " I ought not to say so, perhaps ; but
when you say home "

"You think of the place where you were
brought up ? That is quite natural. But it
would not be the same to him. He was not

brought up there ; he can have nothing to
interest him there. Depend upon it, he must
very often wish that he could pocket his pride
and come back. We must try to get him back,
Frances. Don't you think, my dear, that we
could manage it, you and I ? "

Frances shook her head, and said she did not
know. " But I should be very glad  oh, very
glad : if I am to stay here," she said.

*' Of course you would be glad ; and of course
you are to stay here. You could not leave
your poor mother by herself And now that
Markham  now that probably everything will

be changed for Markham If Markham

were out of the way, it would be so much
easier; for, you know, he always was the
stumbling-block. She would not let Waring
manage him. and she could not manage him
herself"

Frances was so far instructed in what was
going on around her, that she knew how important
in Markham's history the death of Mr
Winterbourn had been ; but it was not a subject
on which she could speak. She said : ''I
am very sorry papa did not like Markham. It

does not seem possible not to like Markham.

But I suppose gentlemen Oh, Sir Thomas,

if he were here, I would ask papa to do something
for me ; but now I don't know who to
ask to help me  if anything can be done."

"Is it something I can do ? "

"I think," she said, "any one that was kind
could do it ; but only not a girl. Girls are
good for so little. Do you remember Captain
Gaunt, who came to town a few weeks ago ?
Sir Thomas, I have heard that something has
happened to Captain Gaunt. I don't know how
to tell you. Perhaps you will think that it is
not my business ; but don't you think it is your
friend's business, when you get into trouble ?
Don't you think that  that people who know
you  who care a little for you  should always
be ready to help ? "

''That is a hard question to put to me. In

the abstract, yes ; but in particular cases

Is it Captain Gaunt for whom you care a
little?"

Frances hesitated a moment, and then she
answered boldly : " Yes  at least I care for his
people a great deal. And he has come home

from India, not very strong ; and lie knew
nothing about  about what you call Society ;
no more than I did. And now I hear that he
is  I don't know how to tell you, Sir Thomas
losing all his money (and he has not any
money) in the places where Markham goes  in
the places that Markham took him to. Oh, wait
till I have told you everything, Sir Thomas !
they are not rich people,  not like any of you
here. Markham says he is poor "

So he is, Frances."

"Ah," she cried, with hasty contempt, 'MDut
you don't understand ! He may not have much
money ; but they  they live in a little house
with two maids and Toni. They have no
luxuries or grandeur. When they take a drive
in old Lucy's carriage, it is something to think
about. All that is quite, quite different from
you people here. Don't you see. Sir Thomas,
don't you see ? And Captain Gaunt has been
oh, I don't know how it is  losing his money ;
and he has not got any  and he is miserable 
and I cannot get any one to take an interest,
to tell him  to warn him, to get him to give

i,p  "

"Did lie tell you all tins himself?" said Sir
Thomas, gravely.

Oh no, not a word. It was Mr Ramsay
who told me ; and when I begged him to say
something, to warn him "

"He could not do that. There he was quite
right ; and you were quite wrong, if you will
let me say so. It is too common a case, alas !
I don't know what any one can do."

Oh, Sir Thomas ! if you will think of the
old General and his mother, who love him more
than all the rest  for he is the youngest. Oh,
won't you do something, try something, to save
him?" Frances clasped her hands, as if in
prayer. She raised her eyes to his face with
such an eloquence of entreaty, that his heart
was touched. Not only was her whole soul in
the petition for the sake of him who was in
peril, but it was full of boundless confidence
and trust in the man to whom she appealed.
The other plea might have failed ; but this
last can scarcely fail to affect the mind of any
individual to whom it is addressed.

Sir Thomas put his hand on her shoulder
with fatherly tenderness. " My dear little girl,"

he said, " what do you think I can do ? I don't
know what I can do. I am afraid I should only
make things worse, were I to interfere."

"No, no. He is not like that. He would
know you were a friend. He would be thankful.
And oh, how thankful, how thankful I
should be ! "

Frances, do you take, then, so great an interest
in this young man ? Do you want me to
look after him for your sake ? "

She looked at him hastily with an eager
Yes "  then paused a little, and looked again
with a dawning understanding which brought
the colour to her cheek. " You mean something
more than I mean," she said, a little
troubled. "But yet, if you will be kind to
George Gaunt, and try to help him, for my
sake Yes, oh, yes ! Why should I refuse
? I would not have asked you if I had not
thought that perhaps you would do it  for me."

I would do a great deal for you ; for your
mother's daughter, much ; and for poor Waring's
child; and again, for yourself. But, Frances,
a young man who is so weak, who falls into
temptation in this way  my dear, you must

let me say it  lie is not a mate for such as

7)

you.

"For me? Oh no. No one thought  no

one ever thought " cried Frances hastily.

Sir Thomas, I hear mamma coming, and I do
not want to trouble her, for she has so much to
think of? Will you? Oh, promise me. Look
for him to-night ; oh, look for him to-night ! "

*' You are so sure that I can be of use ? " The
trust in her eyes was so genuine, so enthusiastic,
that he could not resist that flattery. " Yes, I
will try. I will see what it is possible to do.
And you, Frances, remember you are pledged,
too ; you are to do everything you can for me."

He was patting her on the shoulder, looking
down upon her with very friendly tender eyes,
when Lady Markham came in. She was a little
startled by the group ; but though she was tired
and discomposed and out of heart, she was not
so preoccupied but what her quick mind caught
a new suggestion from it. Sir Thomas was
very rich. He had been devoted to herself,
in all honour and kindness, for many years.

What if Frances ? A whole train of new

ideas burst into her mind on the moment, al-vol.

III. M

though she had thought, as she came in, that
in the present chaos and hurry of her spirits
she had room for nothing more.

"You look," she said with a smile, "as if
you were settling something. What is it ? An
alliance, a league ? "

Offensive and defensive," said Sir Thomas.
We have given each other mutual commissions,
and we are great friends, as you see.
But these are our little secrets, which we don't
mean to tell. How is Nelly, Lady Markham ?
And is it all right about the will ? "

The will is the least of my cares. I could
not inquire into that, as you may suppose ; nor
is there any need, so far as I know. Nelly is
quite enough to have on one's hands, without
thinking of the will. She is very nervous and
very headstrong. She would have rushed away
out of the house, if I had not used  almost
force. She cannot bear to be under the same
roof with death."

It was the old way. I scarcely wonder, for
my part : for it was never pretended, I suppose,
that there was any love in the matter."

Oh no " (Lady Markham looked at her own

elderly knight and at her young daughter, and

said to herself, What if Frances ?) ; " there

was no love. But she has always been very
good, and done her duty by him  that, everybody
will say."

Poor Nelly !  that is quite true. But still
I should not like, if I were such a fool as to
marry a young wife, to have her do her duty
to me in that way."

"You would be very different," said Lady
Markham with a smile. " I should not think
you a fool at all ; and I should think hera
lucky woman." She said this with Nelly
Winterbourn's voice still ringing in her ears.

"Happily, I am not going to j)\\t it to the
test. Now, I must go  to look after your
affairs, Miss Frances ; and remember that you
are pledged to look after mine in return."

Lady Markham looked after him very curiously
as he went away. She thought, as women
so often think, that men were very strange,
inscrutable  "mostly fools," at least in one

way. To think that perhaps little Frances

It would be a great match, greater than Claude
Ramsay  as good in one joint of view, and in

other respects far better than Nelly St John's
great marriage with the rich Mr Winterbourn.
I am glad you like him so much, Frances,"
she said. "He is not young  but he has every
other quality ; as good as ever man was, and so
considerate and kind. You may take him into
your confidence fully." She waited a moment
to see if the child had anything to say ; then,
too wise to force or precipitate matters, went on :
"Poor Nelly gives me great anxiety, Frances.
I wish the funeral were over, and all well. Her
nerves are in such an excited state, one can't
feel sure what she may do or say. The servants
and people happily think it grief; but to see
Sarah Winterbourn looking at her fills me with
fright, I can't tell why. She doesn't think it is
grief. And how should it be ? A dreadful,
cold, always ill, repulsive man. But I hope she
may be kept quiet, not to make a scandal until
after the funeral at least. I don't know what
she said to you, my love, that day ; but you
must not pay any attention to what a woman
says in such an excited state. Her marriage
has been unfortunate (which is a thing that
may happen in any circumstances), not because

Mr Winterbourn was such a good match, but
because he was such a disagreeable man."

Frances, who had no clue to her mother's
thoughts, or to any appropriateness in this
short speech, had little interest in it. She said,
somewhat stiffly, that she was sorry for poor
Mrs Winterbourn  but much more sorry for her
own mother, who was having so much trouble
and anxiety. Lady Markham smiled upon her,
and kissed her tenderly. It was a relief to her
mind, in the midst of all those anxious questions,
to have a new channel for her thoughts ;
and upon this new jath she threw herself forth
in the fulness of a lively imagination, leaving
fact far behind, and even probability. She was
indeed quite conscious of this, and voluntarily
permitted herself the pleasant exercise of building
a new castle in the air. Little Frances !
And she said to herself there would be no
drawback in such a case. It would be the
finest match of the season ; and no mother
need fear to trust her daughter in Sir Thomas's
hands.

Sir Thomas came back next morning when
Lady Markham was again absent. He informed

Frances that he had gone to several places
where he was told Captain Gaunt was likely
to be found, and had seen Markham as usual
frittering himself away ; " but Gaunt had
nowhere been visible. " Some one said he had
fallen ill. If that is so, it is the best thing that
could happen. One has some hope of getting
hold of him so." But where did he live ? That
was the question. Markham did not know, nor
any one about. That was the first thing to
be discovered, Sir Thomas said. For the first
time, Frances appreciated her mother's businesslike
arrangements for her great correspondence,
which made an address-book so necessary. She
found Gaunt's address there ; and passed the
rest of the day in anxiety, which she could
confide to no one, learning for the first time
those tortures of suspense which to so many
women form a great part of existence. Frances
thought the day would never end. It was so
much the more dreadful to her that she had
to shut it all up in her own bosom, and
endeavour to enter into other anxieties, and
sympathise with her mother's continual panic
as to what Nelly Winterbourn might do. The

house altogether was in a state of suppressed
excitement ; even the servants  or perhaps the
servants most keenly of any, with their quick
curiosity and curious divination of any change
in the atmosphere of a family  feeling the
thrill of approaching revolution. Frances with
her private preoccupation was blunted to this ;
but when Sir Thomas arrived in the evening,
it was all she could do to curb herself and
keep within the limits of ordinary rule. She
sprang up, indeed, when she heard his step
on the stair, and went off to the further corner
of the room, where she could read his face out
of the dimness before he spoke ; and where,
perhaps, he might seek her, and tell her, under
some pretence. These movements were keenly
noted by her mother, as was also the alert air
of Sir Thomas, and his interest and activity,
though he looked very grave. But Frances did
not require to wait for the news she looked for
so anxiously.

"Yes, I am very serious," Sir Thomas said,
in answer to Lady Markham's question. " I
have news to tell you which will shock you.
Your poor young friend Gaunt  Captain

Gaunt  wasn't he a friend of yours ?  is
lying dangerously ill of fever in a poor little
set of lodgings lie has got. He is far too ill
to know me or say anything to me ; but sofar
as I can make out, it has something to do
with losses at play."

Lady Markham turned pale with alarm and
horror. " Oh, I have always been afraid of
this ! I had a presentiment," she cried. Then
rallying a little : " But, Sir Thomas, no one
thinks now that fever is brought on by mental
causes. It must be bad water or defective
drainage."

"It may be  anything; I can't tell; I am
no doctor. But the fact is, the young fellow
is lying delirious, raving. I heard him myself
 about stakes and chances and losses, and
how he will make it up tomorrow. There are
other things too. He seems to have had hard
lines, poor fellow, if all is true."

Frances had rushed forward, unable to restrain
herself. " Oh, his mother, his mother
we must send for his mother," she cried.

I will go and see him tomorrow," said
Lady Markham. '' I had a presentiment. He

has been on my mind ever since I saw him
first. I blame myself for losing sight of him.

But tomorrow "

"To-morrow  tomorrow; that is what the
poor fellow says."

CHAPTER Xlii

Lady Markham did not forget her promise.
Whatever else a great lady may forget in these
days, her sick people, her hospitals, she is sure
never to forget. She went early to the lodgings,
which were not far off, hidden in one of
the quaint corners of little old lanes behind
Piccadilly, where poor Gaunt was. She did
not object to the desire of Frances to go with
her, nor to the anxiety she showed. The man
was ill ; he had become a '' case ; " it was
natural and right that he should be an object
of interest. For herself, so far as Lady Markham's
thoughts were free at all, George Gaunt
was much more than a case to her. A little
while ago, she would have given him a large
share in her thoughts, with a remorseful consciousness
almost of a personal part in the

injury which had been done him. But now
there were so many other matters in the foreground
of her mind, that this, though it gave
her one sharp twinge, and an additional desire
to do all that could be done for him, had yet
fallen into the background. Besides, things
had arrived at a climax : there was no long-er
any means of delivering him, no further anxiety
about his daily movements ; there he lay, incapable
of further action. It was miserable,
yet it was a relief. Markham and Markham's
associates had no more power over a sick man.

Lady Markham managed her affairs always
in a business-like way. She sent to inspire
what was the usual hour of the doctor's visit,
and timed her arrival so as to meet him, and
receive all the information he could give.
Even the medical details of the case were
not beyond Lady Markham's comprehension.
She had a brief but very full consultation
with the medical man in the little parlour
downstairs, and promptly issued her orders
for nurses and all that could possibly be
wanted for the patient. Two nurses at once
one for the day, and the other for the

night ; ice by the cart-load ; the street to be
covered with hay; any traffic that it was
possible to stop, arrested. These directions
Frances heard while she sat anxious and
trembling in the brougham, and watched the
doctor  a humble and undistinguished practitioner
of the neighbourhood, stirred into
excited interest by the sudden appearance of
the great lady, with her liberal ideas, upon
the scene  hurrying away. Lady Markham
then disappeared again into the house,  the
small, trim, shallow, London lodging-house, with
a few scrubby plants in its little balconies on
the first floor, where the windows were open,
but veiled by sun-blinds. Something that
sounded like incessant talking came from these
windows  a sound to which Frances paid no
attention at first, thinking it nothing but a
conversation, though curiously carried on without
break or pause. But after a while the
monotony of the sound gave her a painful
sensation. The street was very quiet, even
without the hay. Now and then a cart or
carriage would come round the corner, taking
a short-cut from one known locality to another.

Sometimes a street cry would echo through
the sunshine. A cart full of flowering-plants,
with a hoarse-voiced proprietor, went along in
stages, stopping here and there ; but through
all ran the strain of talk, monologue or conversation,
never interrupted. The sound affected
the girl's nerves, she could not tell why. She
opened the door of the brougham at last, and
went into the narrow little doorway of the
house, where it became more distinct,  a persistent
dull strain of speech. All was deserted
on the lower floor, the door of the sitting-room
standing open, the narrow staircase leading;
to the sick man's rooms above. Frances
felt her interest, her eager curiosity, grow at
every moment. She ran lightly, quickly upstairs.
The door of the front room, the room
with the balconies, was ajar; and now it became
evident that the sound was that of a
single voice, hoarse, not always articulate,
talking. Oh, the weary strain of talk, monotonous,
unending  sometimes rising faintly,
sometimes falling lower, never done, without
a pause. That could not be raving, Frances
said to herself. Oh, not raving ! Cries of

excitement and passion would have been comprehensible.
But there was something more
awful in the persistency of the dull choked
voice. She said to herself it was not George
Gaunt's voice : she did not know what it was.
But as she put forth all these arguments to
herself, trembling, she drew ever nearer and
nearer to the door.

Eed  red  and red. Stick to my colour :
my colour  my coat, Markham, and the ribbon,
her ribbon. I say red. Play, play  all
play  always : amusement : her ribbon, red.
No, no ; not red, black, colour death  no
colour : means nothing, all nothing. Markham,
play. Gain or lose  all  all : nothing kept
back. Eed, I say; and red  blood  blood
colour. Mother, mother ! no, it's black, black.
No blood  no blood  no reproach. Death 
makes up all  death. Black  red  black  all
death colours, all death, death." Then there
was a little change in the voice. "Constance?
India ; no, no ; not India. Anywhere  give
up everything. Amusement, did you say
amusement ? Don't say so, don't say so.
Sport to you  but death, death:  colour of

death, black': or red  blood: all death colours,
death. Mother ! don't put on black  red ribbons
like hers  red, heart's blood. No bullet,
no  her little hand, little white hand  and
then blood-red. Constance! Play  play 
nothing left  play."

Frances stood outside and shuddered. Was
this, then, what they called raving ? She
shrank within herself ; her heart failed her ;
a sickness which took the light from her eyes,
made her limbs tremble and her head swim.
Oh, what sport had he been to the two  the
two who were nearest to her in the world !
What had they done with him, Mrs Gaunt's
boy  the youngest, the favourite ? There
swept through the girl's mind Hke a bitter
wind a cry against  Fate was it, or Providence
? Had they but let alone, had each
stayed in her own place, it would have been
Frances who should have met, with a fresh
heart, the young man's early fancy. They
would have met sincere and faithful, and
loved each other, and all would have been
well. But there was no Frances ; there was
only Constance, to throw his heart away.

She seemed to see it all as in a picture  Constance
with, the red ribbons on her grey dress,
with the smile that said it was only amusement
; with the little hand, the little white
hand, that gave the blow. And then all play,
all play, red or black, what did it matter?
and the bullet ; and the mother in mourning,
and Markham. Constance and Markham !
murderers. This was the cry that came from
the bottom of the girl's heart. Murderers ! 
of two ; of him and of herself ; of the happiness
that was justly hers, which at this moment
she claimed, and wildly asserted her right to
have, in the clamour of her angry heart. She
seemed to see it all in a moment : how he washers
; how she had given her heart to him
before she ever saw him ; how she could have
made him happy. She would not have shrunk
from India or anywhere. She would have made
him happy. And Constance, for a jest, had
come between ; for amusement, had broken his
heart. And Markham, for amusement  for
amusement !  had destroyed his life ; and hers
as well. There are moments when the gentle
and simple mind becomes more terrible than

She pushed open the door, scarcely knowing
what she did. The bed was pulled out from
the wall, almost into the centre of the room ;
and behind, while this strange husky monologue
of confused passion was going on unnoted,
Lady Markham and the landlady stood together
talking in calm undertones of the treatment to
be employed. Frances' senses, all stimulated
to the highest point, took in, without meaning
to do so, every particular of the scene and
every word that was said.

I can do no good by staying now," Lady
Markham was saying. " There is so little to
be done at this stage. The ice to his head,
that is all till the nurse comes. She will be
here before one o'clock. And in the meantime,
you must watch him carefully, and if
anything occurs, let me know. Be very careful
to tell me everything; for the slightest
symptom is important."

VOL. III. N

Yes, my lady ; I'll take great care, my
lady." The woman was overawed, yet excited,
by this unexpected visitor, dio had turned the
dull drama of the lodger's illness into a great,
important, and exciting conflict, conducted by
the highest officials, against disease and death.

"As I go home, I shall call at Dr 's "

naming; the great doctor of the moment 
who will meet the other gentleman here ; and
after that, if they decide on ice-baths or any

other active treatment But there will be

time to think of that. In the meantime, if
anything important occurs, communicate with
me at once, at Eaton Square."

Yes, my lady ; I'll not forget nothing. My
'husband will run in a moment to let your ladyship
know."

'' That will be quite right. Keep him in the
house, so that he may get anything that is
wanted." Lady Markham gave her orders with
the liberality of a woman who had never known
any limit to the possibilities of command in
this way. She went up to the bed and looked
at the patient, who lay all unconscious of inspection,
continuing the hoarse talk, to which

lie had ceased to attend, through which she
had carried on her conversation in complete
calm. She touched his forehead for a moment
with the back of her unloved hand, and shook
her head. *' The temperature is very high,"
she said. There was a semi-professional calm
in all she did. Now that he was under treatment,
he could be considered dispassionately
as a " case." When she turned round and saw
Frances within the door, she held up her finger.
Look at him, if you wish, for a moment, poor
fellow; but not a word," she said. Frances,
from the passion of anguish and wrong which
had seized upon her, sank altogether into a
confused hush of semi-remorseful feeling. Her
mother at least was occupied with nothing that
was not for his good.

I told you that I mistrusted Markham," she
said, as they drove away. 'He did not mean
any harm. But that is his life. And I think

I told you that I was afraid Constance Oh,

my dear, a mother has a great many hard
offices to undertake in her life  to make up
for things which her children may have done
en gaiety du coeur, without thought."

Gaiety du coeur  is that what you call it,"
cried Frances, " when you murder a man? " Her
voice was choked with the passion that filled her.

Frances ! Murder ! You are the last one
in the world from whom I should have expected
anything violent."

Oh," cried the girl, flushed and wild, her
eyes gleaming through an angry dew of pain,
what word is there that is violent enough ?
He was happy and good, and there were 
there might have been  people who could have
loved him, and  and made him happy. When
one comes in, one who had no business there,
one who  and takes him from  the others, and
makes a sport of him and a toy to amuse herself,
and flings him broken away. It is worse
than murder  if there is anything worse than
murder," she cried.

Lady Markham could not have been more
astonished if some passer-by had presented a
pistol at her head. "Frances!" she cried, and
took the girl's hot hands into her own, endeavouring
to soothe her ; " you speak as if she
meant to do it  as if she had some interest in
doing it. Frances, you must be just ! "

If I were just  if I had the power to be
just  is there any punishment which could be
great enough ? His life ? But it is more than
his life. It is misery and torture and wretchedness,
to him first, and then to  to his mother

to " She ended as a woman, as a poor

little girl, scarcely yet woman grown, must 
in an agony of tears.

All that a tender mother and that a kind
woman could do  with due regard to the important
business in her hands, and a glance
aside to see that the coachman did not mistake
Sir Joseph's much frequented door  Lady
Markham did to quench this extraordinary
passion, and bring back calm to Frances. She
succeeded so far, that the girl, hurriedly drying
her tears, retiring with shame and confusion
into herself, recovered sufficient self-command
to refrain from further betrayal of her feelings.
In the midst of it all, though she was not unmoved
by her mother's tenderness, she had a
kind of fierce perception of Lady Markham's
anxiety about Sir Joseph's door, and her eagerness
not to lose any time in conveying her
message to him, which she did rapidly in her

own person, putting the footman aside, corrupting
somehow by sweet words and looks
the incorruptible functionary who guarded the
great doctor's door. It was all for poor Gaunt's
sake, and done with care for him, as anxious
and urgent as if he had been her own son ;
and yet it was business too, which, had Frances
been in a mood to see the humour of it, might
have lighted the tension of her feelings. But
she was in no mind for humour  a thing which
passion has never any eyes for or cognisance
of. " That is all quite right. He will meet
the other doctor this afternoon ; and we maybe
now comfortable that he is in the best
hands," Lady Markham said, with a sigh of
satisfaction. She added : " I suppose, of course,
his parents will not hesitate about the expense
? " in a faintly inquiring tone ; but did
not insist on any reply. Nor could Frances
have given any reply. But amid the chaos
of her mind, there came a consciousness of poor
Mrs Gaunt's dismay, could she have known.
She would have watched her son night and
day ; and there was not one of the little community
at Bordighera  Mrs Durant, with all her

little pretences ; Tasie, with her airs of young-babyhood
 who would not have shared the vigil.
But the two expensive nurses, with every accessory
that new-fangled science could think of 
this would have frightened out of their senses
the two poor parents, who would not " hesitate
about the expense," or any expense that involved
their son's life. In this point, too,
the different classes could not understand each
other. The idea flew through the girl's mind
with a half-despairing consciousness that this,
too, had something to do with the overwhelming'
revolution in her own circumstances. A
man of her own species would have understood
Constance ; he would have known Markham's
reputation and ways. The pot of iron
and the pot of clay could not travel together
without damage to the weakest. This
went vaguely through Frances' mind in the
middle of her excitement, and perhaps helped
to calm her. It also stilled, if it did not calm
her, to see that her mother was a little afraid
of her in her new development.

Lady Markham, when she returned to the
brougham after her visit to Sir Joseph, manifestly

avoided the subject. She was careful
not to say anything of Markham or of Constance.
Her manner was anxious, deprecatory,
full of conciliation. She advised Frances, with
much tenderness, to go and rest a little when
they got home. " I fear you have been doing
too much, my darling," she cried, and followed
her to her room with some potion in a glass.

I am quite well," Frances said ; " there is
nothing the matter with me."

But I am sure, my dearest, that you are
overdone." Her anxious and conciliatory looks
were of themselves a tonic to Frances, and
brought her back to herself.

Markham, when he appeared in the evening,
showed unusual feeling too. He was at the
crisis, it seemed, of his own life, and perhaps
other sentiments had therefore an easier hold
upon him. He came in looking very downcast,
with none of his usual banter in him. "Yes,
I know. I have heard all about it, bless you.
What else, do you think, are those fellows
talking about ? Poor beggar. Who ever
thought he'd have gone down like that in
so short a time ? Now, mother, the only

thing wanting is that you should say ' I told
you so.' And Fan,  no, Fan can do worse ;
she can tell me that she thought he was safe
in my hands."

It is not my way to say I told you so,
Markham ; but yet "

"You could do it, mammy, if you tried  that
is well known. I'm rather glad he is ill, poor
beggar; it stops the business. But there are
things to pay, that is the worst."

Surely, if it is to a gentleman, he will forgive
him," cried Frances, " when he knows "

Forgive him ! Poor Gaunt would rather
die. It would be as much as a man's life was
worth to offer to  forgive another man. But
how should the child know ? That's the beauty
of Society and the rules of honour. Fan. You
can forgive a man many things, but not a shilling
you've won from him. And how is he to
mend, good life ! with the thought of having
to pay up in the end ? " Markham repeated
this despondent speech several times before
he went gloomily away. '' I had rather die
straight off, and make no fuss. But even
then, he'd have to pay up, or somebody for

him. If I had known what I know now, I'd
have eaten him sooner than have taken him
among those fellows, who have no mercy."

"Markham, if you would listen to me, you
would give them up  you too."

'' Oh, I " he said, with his short laugh.

*they can't do much harm to me."

*but you must change  in that as well as
other things, if "

"Ah, if," he said, with a curious grimace;
and took up his hat and went away.

Thus, Frances said to herself, his momentary
penitence and her mother's pity melted
away in consideration of themselves. They
could not say a dozen words on any other
subject, even such an urgent one as this,
before their attention dropped, and they
relapsed into the former question about
themselves. And such a question !  Markham's
marriage, which depended upon Nelly
Winterbourn's widowhood and the portion her
rich husband left her. Markham was an
English peer, the head of a family which had
been known for centuries, which even had
touched the history of England here and

there ; yet this was the ignoble way in which
he was to take the most individual step of a
man's life. Her heart was full almost to
bursting of these questions, which had been
gradually awakening in her mind. Lady
Markham, when left alone, turned always to
the consolation of her correspondence  of those
letters to write which filled up all the interstices
of her other occupations. Perhaps she
was specially glad to take refuge in this
assumed duty, having no desire to enter again
with her daughter into any discussion of the
events of the day. Frances withdrew into a
distant corner. She took a book with her,
and did her best to read it, feeling that anything'
was better than to allow herself to think,
to summon up again the sound of that hoarse
broken voice running; on in the feverish
current of disturbed thought. Was he still
talking, talking, God help him ! of death and
blood and the two colours, and her ribbon,
and the misery which was all play ? Oh, the
misery, causeless, unnecessary, to no good
purpose, that had come merely from this  >
that Constance had put herself in Frances'

place,  that the pot of iron had thrust itself in
the road of the pot of clay. But she must
not think  she must not think, the girl said
to herself with feverish earnestness, and tried
the book again. Finding it of no avail, however,
she put it down, and left her corner and
came, in a moment of leisure between two
letters, behind her mother's chair. 'may I
ask you a question, mamma ? "

As many as you please, my dear ; " but
Lady Markham's face bore a harassed look.
You know, Frances, there are some to which
there is no answer  which I can only ask with
an aching heart, like yourself," she said.

This is a very simple one. It is, Have I
any money  of my own ? "

Lady Markham turned round on her chair
and looked at her daughter. " Money ! " she
said. "Are you in need of anything? Do
you want money, Frances ? I shall never
forgive myself, if you have felt yourself
neglected."

It is not that. I mean  have I anything
of my own ? "

After a little pause. " There is a  small

provision made for you by my marriage settlement,"
Lady Markliam said.

"And  once more  could, oli, could I have
it, mamma ? "

My dear child ! you must be out of your
senses. How could you have it at your age 
unless you were going to marry ? "

This suggestion Frances rejected with the
contempt it merited. " I shall never marry,"
she said ; " and there never could be a time
when it would be of so much importance tome
to have it as now. Oh, tell me, is there
no way by which I could have it now ? "

Sir Thomas is one of our trustees. Ask
him. I do not think he will let you have it,
Frances. But perhaps you could tell him what
you want, if you will not have confidence in
me. Money is just the thing that is least
easy for me. I could give you almost anything
else ; but money I have not. What can
you want money for, a girl like you ? "

Frances hesitated before she replied. " I
would rather not tell you," she said; "for
very likely you would not approve ; but it is
nothing  wrong. "

"You are very honest, my dear. I do not
suppose for a moment it is anything wrong.
Ask Sir Thomas," Lady Markham said, with
a smile. The smile had meaning in it, which
to Frances was incomprehensible. " Sir Thomas
will refuse nothing he can in reason give 
of that I am sure."

Sir Thomas, when he came in shortly afterwards,
said that he would not disturb Lady
Markham. " For I see you are busy, and I
have something to say to Frances."

Who has also something to say to you,"
Lady Markham said, with a benignant smile.
Her heart gave a throb of satisfaction. It was
all she could do to restrain herself, not to tell
the dear friend to whom she was writing that
there was every prospect of a most happy
establishment for dear Frances. And her joy
was quite genuine and almost innocent, notwithstanding
all she knew.

"You have written to your father?" Sir
Thomas said. "My dear Frances, I have got
the most hopeful letter from him, the first I
have had for years. He asks me if I know
what state Hilborouo'h is in  if it is habitable

? That looks like coming; home, don't you
think ? And it is years since he has written
to me before."

Frances did not know what Hilborouoh was :
but she disliked showing; her ignorance. And
this idea was not so comforting to her as Sir
Thomas expected. She said : " I do not think
he will come," with downcast eyes.

But Sir Thomas was strong in his own way
of thinking. He was excited and pleased by
the letter. He told her again and ao-ain how
he had desired this  how happy it made him
to think he was about to be successful at last.
"And just at the moment when all is likely

to be arranged  when Markham You

have brought me luck, Frances. Now, tell
me what it was you wanted from me?"

Frances' spirits had fallen lower and lower
while his rose. Her mind ranged over the new
possibilities with something like despair. It
would be Constance, not she, who would have
done it, if he came back  Constance, who had
taken her place from her  the love that ought
to have been hers  her father  and who now,
on her return, would resume her place with her

mother too. Ah, what would Constance do ?
Would she do anything for him who lay
yonder in the fever, for his father and his
mother, poor old people !  anything to makeup
for the harm she had done ? Her heart
burned in her agitated, troubled bosom. "It is
nothing," she said  "nothing that you would
do for me. I had a great wish  but I know
you would not let me do it, neither you nor
my mother."

"Tell me what it is, and we shall see."
Frances felt her voice die away in her throat.

We went this morning to see  to see "

"You mean poor Gaunt. It is a sad sight,
and a sad story  too sad for a young creature
like you to be mixed up in. Is it anything
for him, that you want me to do ? "

She looked at him through those hot gathering
tears which interrupt the vision of women,
and blind them when they most desire to see
clearly. A sense of the folly of her hope, of
the impossibility of making any one understand
what was in her mind, overwhelmed her.
I cannot, I cannot," she cried. " Oh, I know
you are very kind. I wanted my own money,

if I have any. But I know you will not give
it me, nor think it right, nor understand what
I want to do with it."

Have you so little trust in me ? " said Sir
Thomas. " I hope, if you told me, I could
understand. I cannot give you your own
money, Frances ; but if it were for a good  no,
I will not say that  for a sensible, for a practicable
purpose, you should have some of mine,"

'yours!" she cried, almost with indignation.
Oh no ; that is not what I mean. They are
nothing  nothing to you." She paused when
she had said this, and grew very pale. " I did

not mean Sir Thomas, please do not say

anything to mamma."

He took her hand affectionately between his
own. ' I do not half understand," he said ;
but I will keep your secret, so far as I know
it, my poor little girl."

Lady Markham at her writing-table, with her
back turned, went on with her correspondence
all the time in high satisfaction and pleasure,
saying to herself that it would be far better
than Nelly Winterbourn's  that it would bethe
finest match of the year.

VOL. III. o

Chapter Xlii.

It had seemed to Frances, as it appears naturally
to all who have little experience, that a
man who was so ill as Captain Gaunt must
get better or get worse without any of the
lingering suspense which accompanies a less
violent complaint ; but, naturally, Lady Markham
was wiser, and entertained no such delusions.
When it had gone on for a week, it
already seemed to Frances as if he had been
ill for a year,  as if there never had been
any subject of interest in the world but the
lingering course of the malady, which waxed
from less to more, from days of quiet to hours
of active delirium. The business-like nurses,
always so cool and calm, with their professional
reports, gave the foolish girl a chill to her
heart, thinking, as she did, of the anxiety that

would have filled, not the house alone in which
he lay, but all the little community, had he
been ill at home. Perhaps it was better for
him that he was not ill at home,  that the
changes in his state were watched by clear
eyes, not made dim by tears or over sharp by
anxiety, but which took him very calmly, asa
case interesting, no doubt, but only in a
scientific sense.

After a few days. Lady Markham herself
wrote to his mother a very kind letter, full
of detail, describing everything which she had
done, and how she had taken Captain Gaunt entirely
into her own hands. " I thought it better
not to lose any time," she said ; " and you may
assure yourself that everything has been done
for him that could have been done, had you
yourself been here. I have acted exactly as
I should have done for my own son in the
circumstances ; " and she proceeded to explain
the treatment, in a manner which was far too
full of knowledge for poor Mrs Gaunt's understanding,
who could scarcely read the letter
for tears. The best nurses, the best doctor,
the most anxious care. Lady Markham's own

personal supervision, so that nothing should
be neglected. The two old parents held their
little counsel over this letter with full hearts.
It had been Mrs Gaunt's first intention to start
at once, to get to her boy as fast as express
trains could carry her ; but then they began
to look at each other, to falter forth broken
words about expense. Two nurses, the best
doctor in London  and then the mother's rapid
journey, the old General left alone. How was
she to do it, so anxious, so unaccustomed as
she was ? They decided, with many doubts
and terrors, with great self-denial, and many
a sick flutter of questionings as to which was
best, to remain. Lady Markham had promised
them news every day of their boy, and a telegram
at once if there was " any change "  those
awful words, that slay the very soul. Even the
poor mother decided that in these circumstances
it would be " self-indulgence " to go ; and from
henceforward, the old people lived upon the
post-hours,  lived in awful anticipation of a
telegram announcing a " change." Frances was
their daily correspondent. She had gone to
look at him, she always said, though the

nurses would not permit her to stay. He
was no worse. But till another week, there
could be no change. Then she would write
that the critical day had passed  that there
was still no change, and would not be again
for a week ; but that he was no worse. No
worse !  this was the poor fare upon which
General Gaunt and his wife lived in their little
Swiss 1361181011, where it was so cheap. They
gave up even their additional candle, and economised
that poor little bit of expenditure ; they
gave up their wine ; they made none of the
little excursions which had been their delight.
Even with all these economies, how were they
to provide the expenses which were running
on  the dear London lodgings, the nurses, the
boundless outo;oinors, which it was understood
they would not grudge ? Grudge ! No ; not
all the money in the world, if it could save
their George. But where  where were they to
get this money? Whence was it to come ?

This Frances knew, but no one else. And
she, too, knew that the lodgings and the nurses
and the doctors were so far from being all.
The poor girl spent the days much as they

did, in agonised questions and considerations.
If she could but get her money, her own
money, whatever it was. Later, for her own
use, wdiat would it matter ? She could work,
she could take care of children, it did not
matter what she did : but to save him, to save
them. She had learned so much, however,
about life and the world in which she lived,
as to know that, were her object known, it
would be treated as the supreme folly. Wild
ideas of Jews, of finding somebody dio would
lend her wdiat she wanted, as young men do in
novels, rose in her mind, and were dismissed,
and returned again. But she was not a
young man ; she was only a girl, and knew
not what to do, nor where to go. Not even
the very alphabet of such knowledge was hers.
While this was going on, she was taken,
all abstracted as she was, into Society 
to the solemn heaviness of dinner - parties ;
to dances even, in which her gravity and
self-absorption were construed to mean very
different things. Lady Markham had never
said a word to any one of the idea which had
sprung into her own mind full grown at sight

of Sir Thomas liolcliug in fatherly kindness her
little girl's hands. She had never said a word,
oh, not a word. How such a wild and extraordinary
rumour had got about, she could not
imagine. But the ways of Society and its
modes of information are inscrutable : a glance,
a smile, are enough. And what so natural as
this to bring a veil of gravity over even a
debutante in her first season ? Lucky little
girl, some people said ; poor little thing, some
others. No wonder she was so serious ;
and her mother, that successful general  her
mother, that triumphant match-maker, radiant,
in spite, people said, of the very uncomfortable
state of affairs about Markham, and the fact
that, in the absence of the executor, Xelly
Winterbourn knew nothing as yet as to how
she was " left."

Thus the weeks went past in great suspense
for aU. Markham had recovered, it
need scarcely be said, from his fit of remorse ;
and he, perhaps, was the one to whom these
uncertainties were a relief rather than an
oppression. Mrs Winterbourn had retired into
the country, to wait the arrival of the all-important

functionary who had possession of
her husband's will, and to pass decorously the
first profundity of her mourning. Naturally,
Society knew everything about Nelly : how,
under the infliction of Sarah Winterbourn's
society, she was quite as well as could be expected
; how she was behaving herself beautifully
in her retirement, seeing nobody, doing
just what it was right to do. Nelly had
always managed to retain the approval of
Society, whatever she did. In the best circles,
it was now a subject of indignant remark that
Sarah Winterbourn should take it upon herself
to keep watch like a dragon over the widow.
For Nelly's prevision was right, and the widow
was what the men now called her, though
women are not addicted to that form of nomenclature.
But Sarah Winterbourn was universally
condemned. Now that the poor girl had
completed her time of bondage, and conducted
herself so perfectly, why could not that dragon
leave her alone ? Markham made no remark
upon the subject ; but his mother, who understood
him so well, believed he was glad that
Sarah Winterbourn should be there, making

all visits unseemly. Lady Markliam thought
he was glad of the pause altogether, of the
impossibility of doing anything ; and to be
allowed to go on without any disturbance
in his usual way. She had herself made one
visit to Nelly, and reported, when she came
home, that notwithstanding the presence of
Sarah, Nelly's natural brightness was beginning
to appear, and that soon she would be as
espied as ever. That was Lady Markham's
view of the subject ; and there was no doubt
that she spoke with perfect knowledge.

It was very surprising, accordingly, to the
ladies, when, some days after this. Lady Markham's
butler came up-stairs to say that Mrs
Winterbourn was at the door, and had sent to
inquire whether his mistress was at home and
alone before coming up-stairs. " Of course I
am at home," said Lady Markham ; "I am always
at home to Mrs Winterbourn. But to no
one else, remember, while she is here." When
the man went away with his message, Lady
Markham had a moment of hesitation. " You
may stay," she said to Frances, '' as you were
present before and saw her in her trouble. But

I wonder what has brought her to town ? She
did not intend to come to town till the end of
the season. She must have something to tell
me. Nelly, how are you, dear ? " she cried,
going forward and taking the young widow into
her arms. Nelly was in crape from top to toe.
As she had always done what was right, what
people expected from her, she continued to do
so till the end. A little rim of white was under
the edge of her close black bonnet with its long
veil. Her cuffs were white and hem-stitched
in the old-fashioned deep way. Nothing, in
short, could be more deep than Nelly's costume
altogether. She was a very pattern for widows ;
and it was very becoming, as that dress seldom
fails to be. It would have been natural to expect
in Nelly's countenance some consciousness
of this, as well as perhaps a something at the
corners of her mouth which should show that,
as Lady Markham said, she would soon be as
espiegle as ever. But there was nothing of
this in her face. She seemed to have stiffened
with her crape. She suffered Lady Markham's
embrace rather than returned it. She did not
take any notice of Frances. She walked across

the room, sweeping with her long dress, with
her long veil like an ensign of woe, and sat
down with her back to the light. But for a
minute or more she said nothing, and listened
to Lady Markham's questions without even a
movement in reply.

AVhat is the matter, my dear ? Is it something
you have to tell me, or have you only
got tired of the country ? " Lady Markham
said, with a look of alarm beginning to appear
in her face.

''I am tired of the country," said Mrs 
; " but I am also tired of everything
else, so that does not matter much. Lady
Markham, I have come to tell you a great
piece of news. My trustee and Mr Winter-bourn's
executor, who has been at the other
end of the world, has come home."

"Yes, Nelly?" Lady Markham's look of
alarm grew more and more marked. "You
make me very anxious," she cried. " I am
sure something has happened that you did not
foresee."

Oh, nothing has happened  that I ought
not to have foreseen. T always wondered why

Sarah Winterbourn stuck to me so. The will
has been opened and read, and I know how it
all is now. I rushed to tell you, as you have
been so kind."

Dear Nelly ! " Lady Markham said, not
knowing, in the growing perturbation of her
mind, what else to say.

"Mr Winterbourn has been very liberal tome.
He has left me everything he can leave
away from his heir-at-law. Nothing that is
entailed, of course ; but there is not very much
under the entail. They tell me I will be one
of the richest women  a wealthy widow."

"My dear Nelly, I am so very glad ; but I
am not surprised. Mr Winterbourn had a
great sense of justice. He could not do less
for you than that."

"But Lady Markham, you have not heard
all." It was not like Nelly Winterbourn to
speak in such measured tones. There was not
the faintest sign of the espiegle in" her voice.
Frances, roused by the astonished, alarmed
look in her mother's face, drew a little nearer
almost involuntarily, notwithstanding her abstraction
in anxieties of her own.

*' Nelly, do you mind Frances being here ? "

Oh, I wish her to be here ! It will do her
good. If she is going to do  the same as I
did, she ought to know." She made a pause
again  Lady Markham meanwhile growing pale
with fright and panic, though she did not know
what there could be to fear.

There are some people who had begun to
think that I was not so well ' left ' as was
expected," she said; "but they were mistaken.
I am very well ' left.' I am to have the house
in Grosvenor Square, and the Knoll, and all the
plate and carriages, and three parts or so of Mr
Winterbourn's fortune  so long as I remain Mr
Winterbourn's widow. He was, as you say, a
just man."

There was a pause. But for something in
the air which tingled after Nelly's voice had
ceased, the listeners would scarcely have been
conscious that anything more than ordinary
had been said. Lady Markham said "Nelly?"
in a breathless interrogative tone  alarmed by
that thrill in the air, rather than by the words,
which were so simple in their sound.

'' Oh yes ; he had a great sense of justice. So

long as I remain Mrs Winterbourn, I am to
have all that. It was his, and I was his, and
the property is to be kejot together. Don't
you see, Lady Markham ?  Sarah knew it, and
I might have known, had I thought. He had
a great respect for the name of Winterbourn
not much, perhaps, for anything else." She
paused a little, then added : " That's all. I
wished you to know."

Oh my dear," cried Lady Markham, '' is it
possible  is it possible ? You  debarred from
marrying, debarred from everything  at your
age ! "

Oh, I can do anything I please," cried
Nelly. " I can go to the bad if 1 please. He
does not say so long as I behave myself  only
so long as I remain the widow Winterbourn.
I told you they would all call me so. Well,
they can do it ! That's what I am to be all
my life  the widow Winterbourn."

'nelly  Nelly," cried Lady Markham,
throwing her arms round her visitor. " Oh,
my poor child ! And how can I tell  how
am I to tell ? "

You can tell everybody, if you please," said

Mrs Winterbonrn, freeing herself from the clasping
arms and rising up in her stiff crape. " He
had a great sense of justice. He doesn't say
I'm to wear weeds all my life. I think I mean
to come back to Grosvenor Square on Monday,
and perhaps give a ball or two, and some dinners,
to celebrate  for I have come into my
fortune, don't you see ? " she said, with an
unmoved face.

Hush, dear  hush ! You must not talk
like that," Lady Markham said, holding her
arm.

"Why not! Justice is justice, whether for
him or me. I was such a fool as to be wretched
when he was dying, because But it appears
that there was no love lost  no love and
no faith lost. He did not believe in me, anymore
than I believed in him. I outwitted him
when he was livings and he outwits me when
he is dead. Do you hear, Frances ?  that is
how think's go. If you do as I did, as I hear

you are going to do Oh, do it if you

please ; I will never interfere. But make up
sour mind to this  he will have his revenge
on you  or justice ; it is all the same thing.

Good-bye, Lady Markham. I hope you will
countenance me at my first ball  for now I
have come into my fortune, I mean to enjoy
myself. Don't you think these things are
rather becoming ? I mean to wear them out.
They will make a sensation at my parties,"
she said, and for the first time laughed aloud.

"This is just the first wounded feeling," said
Lady Markham. " Nelly, you must not fly
in the face of Society. You have always been
so good. No, no ; let us think it over. Perhaps
we can find a way out of it. There is
bound to be a flaw somewhere."

Good-bye," said Nelly. " I have not fixed
on the day for my first At Home ; but the
invitations will be out directly. Good-bye,
Frances. You must come  and Sir Thomas.
It will be a fine lesson for Sir Thomas." She
walked across the room to the door, and there
stood for a moment, looking back. She looked
taller, almost grand in still fury and despair
with her immovable face. But as she stood
there, a faint softening came to the marble.
Tell Geoff"  gently," she said, and went away.
They could hear the soft sweep of her black

robes retiring down the stair, and then the
door opening, the clang of the carriage.

Lady Markham had dropped into a chair in
her dismay, and sat with her hands clasped
and her eyes wide open, listening to these
sounds, as if they might throw some light on
the situation. The consequences which might
follow from Nelly's freedom had been heavy on
her heart ; and it was possible that by-and-by
this strange news might bring; the usual comfort
; but in the meantime, consternation overwhelmed
her. " As long as she remains his
widow ! " she said to herself in a tone of
horror, as the tension of her nerves yielded
and the carriage drove away. " And how am
I to tell him  gently ; how am I to tell him
gently ? " she cried. It was as if a great catastrophe
had overwhelmed the house.

In an hour or so, however, Lady Markham
recovered her energy, and began to think
whether there might be any way out of it.
"I'll tell you," she cried suddenly; 'there is
your uncle Clarendon, Frances. He is a great
lawyer. If any man can find a flaw in the will,
he will do it." She rang; the bell at once, and

VOL. III. P

ordered the carriage. " But, oh dear," she
said, " I forgot. Lady Melior is coming about
Trotter's Buildings, the place in Whitechapel.
I cannot go. Whatever may happen, I cannot
go to-day. But, my dear, you have never
taken any part as yet ; you need not stay for
this meeting : and besides, you are a favourite
in Portland Place ; you are the best person to

go. You can tell your uncle Clarendon

Stop ; I will write a note," Lady Markham
cried. That was always the most satisfactory
plan in every case. She sent her daughter to
get ready to go out ; and she herself dashed
off in two minutes four sheets of the clearest
statement, a precis of the whole case. Mr
Clarendon, like most people, liked Lady Markham,
 he did not share his wife's prejudices;
and Frances was a favourite. Surely, moved
by these two influences combined, he would
bestir himself and find a flaw in the will !

In less than half an hour from the time of
Mrs Winterbourn's departure, Frances found
herself alone in the brougham, going towards
Portland Place. Her mind was not absorbed
in Nelly Winterbourn. She was not old

bourn and lier troubles fled like shadows from
Frances' mind. To be truly disinterested, to
be always mindful of other people's interests,
it is well to have as few as possible of one's
own.

Mrs Clarendon received her, as always, with
a sort of combative tenderness, as if in competition
for her favour with some powerful
adversary unseen. There was in her a constant
readiness to outbid that adversary, to
osier more than she did, of which Frances was
usually uncomfortably conscious, but which today
stimulated her like a cordial. " I suppose
you are being taken to all sorts of places ? "
she said. " I wish I had not given up Society
so much ; but when the season is over, and the
fine people are all in the country, then you will
see that we have not forgotten you. Has Sir
Thomas come with you, Frances ? I supposed,
perhaps, you had come to tell me "

Sir Thomas ? " Frances said, with much surprise
; but she was too much occupied with
concerns more interesting; to ask what her aunt
could mean. " Oh, aunt Caroline," she said,
I have come to speak to you of something I

am very, very much interested about." In all
sincerity, lie had forgotten the original scope
of her mission, and only remembered her own
anxiety. And then she told her story  how
Captain Gaunt, the son of her old friend, the
youngest, the one that was best beloved, had
come to town  how he had made friends who
were not  nice  who made him play and lose
money  though he had no money.

Of course, my dear, I know  Lord Markham
and his set."

At this Frances coloured high. " It was not
Markham. Markham has found out for me.
It was some  fellows who had no mercy, he
said."

Oh yes ; they are all the same set. I am
very sorry that an innocent girl like you should
be in any way mixed up with such people.
Whether Lord Markham plucks the pigeon himself,
or gets some of his friends to do it "

Aunt Caroline, now you take away my last
hope ; for Markham is my brother ; and I will
never, never ask any one to help me who speaks
so of my brother  he is always so kind, so kind
to me."

I don't see what opportunity he has ever
had to be kind to you," said Mrs Clarendon.

But Frances in her disappointment would not
listen. She turned away her head, to get rid,
so far as was possible, of the blinding tears 
those tears which would come in spite of her,
notwithstanding all the efforts she could make.
I had a little hope in you," Frances said ; " but
now I have none, none. My mother sees him
every day ; if he lives, she will have saved his
life. But I cannot ask her for what I want. I
cannot ask her for more  she has done so much.
And now, you make it impossible for me to ask
you ! "

If Frances had studied how to move her aunt
best, she could not have hit upon a more effectual
way. " My dear child," cried Mrs Clarendon,
hurrying to her, drawing her into her arms,
what is it, what is it that moves you so
much ? Of whom are you speaking ? His life ?
Whose life is in danger ? And what is it you
want ? If you think I, your father's only sister,
will do less for you than Lady Markham

does ! Tell me, my dear, tell me what is

it you want ? "

Then Frances continued her story. How
young Gaunt was ill of a brain-fever, and raved
about his losses, and the black and red, and
of his mother in mourning (with an additional
ache in her heart, Frances suppressed all mention
of Constance), and how she understood,
though nobody else did, that the Gaunts were
not rich, that even the illness itself would tax
all their resources, and that the money, the
debts to pay, would ruin them, and break their
hearts. "I don't say he has not been wrong,
aunt Caroline  oh, I suppose he has been very
wrong !  but there he is lying : and oh, how
pitiful it is to hear him ! and the old General,
who was so proud of him ; and Mrs Gaunt,
dear Mrs Gaunt, who always was so good tome!"


Frances, my child, I am not a hard-hearted
woman, though you seem to think so,  I can
understand all that. I am very, very sorry for
the poor mother; and for the young man even,
who has been led astray : but I don't see what
5'ou can do."

What ! " cried Frances, her eyes flashing
through her tears  " for their son, who is the

same as a brother  for them, whom I have
always known, who have helped to bring me
up ? Oh, you don't know how people live where
there are only a few of them,  where there is
no society, if you say that. If he had been ill
there, at home, we should all have nursed him,
every one. We should have thought of nothing
else. We would have cooked for him, or
gone errands, or done anything. Perhaps those
ladies are better who go to the hospitals. But
to tell me that you don't know what I could
do ! Oh," cried the girl, springing to her feet,
throwing up her hands, " if I had the money, if I
had only the money, I know what I would do ! "
Mrs Clarendon was a woman who did not
spend money, who had everything she wanted,
who thought little of what wealth could procure
; but she was a Quixote in her heart,
as so many women are where great things are
in question, though not in small. " Money ? "
she said, with a faint quiver of alarm in her
voice. "My dear, if it was anything that was
feasible, anything that was right, and you
wanted it very much  the money might be
found," she said. The position, however, was

too strange to be mastered in a moment, and
difficulties rose as she spoke. "A young man.

People might suppose And then Sir Thomas

what would Sir Thomas think ? "

That is why I came to you ; for he will not
give me my own money  if I have any money.
Aunt Caroline, if you will give it me now, I
will pay you back as soon as I am of age. Oh,

I don't want to take it from you  I want

If everything could be paid before he is better,
before he knows  if we could hide it, so that
the General and his mother should never find
out. That would be worst of all, if they were
to find out  it would break their hearts. Oh,
aunt Caroline, she thinks there is no one like
him. She loves him so ; more than  more than
any one here loves anybody : and to find out
all that would break her heart."

Mrs Clarendon rose at this moment, and
stood up with her face turned towards the
door. " I can't tell what is the matter with
me," she said ; "I can scarcely hear what you
are saying. I wonder if I am going to be ill,
or what it is. I thought just then I heard a
voice. Surely there is some one at the door.

I am sure I heard a voice Oh, a voice

you ought to know, if it was true. Frances

I will think of all that after  just now

He must be dead, or else he is here ! "

Frances, who thought of no possibility of death
save to one, caught her aunt's arm with a cry.
The great house was very still  soft carpets
everywhere  the distant sound of a closing door
scarcely penetrating from below. Yet there was
something, that faint human stir which is more
subtle than sound. They stood and waited, the
elder woman penetrated by sudden excitement
and alarm, she could not tell why; the girl
indifferent, yet ready for any wonder in the
susceptibility of her anxious state. As they
stood, not knowing what they expected, the
door opened slowly, and there suddenly stood
in the opening, like two people in a dream 
Constance, smiling, drawing after her a taller
figure. Frances, with a start of amazement,
threw from her her aunt's arm, which she held,
and calling; " Father ! " fluns herself into Waring's
arms.

Chapter XLV.

I Found him in the mood ; so I tliouo;lit it
best to strike while the iron was hot," Constance
said. She had settled down languidly in a
favourite corner, as if she had never been away.
She had looked for the footstool where she
knew it was to be found, and arranged the
cushion as she liked it. Frances had never
made herself so much at home as Constance did
at once. She looked on with calm amusement
while her aunt poured out her delight,
her wonder, her satisfaction, in Waring's ears.
She did not budge herself from her comfortable
place ; but she said to Frances in an undertone
: " Don't let her o-q on too long;. She will
bore him, you know ; and then he will repent.
And I don't want him to repent."

As for Frances, she saw the ground cut away

entirely from under lier feet, and stood sick
and giddy after the first pleasure of seeing lier
father was over, feeling her hopes all tumble
about her. Mrs Clarendon, who had been so
near yielding, so much disposed to give her the
help she wanted, had forgotten her petition
and her altogether in the unexpected delight of
seeing her brother. And here was Constance,
the sight of whom perhaps might call the sick
man out of his fever, dio mihi restore life and
everything, even happiness to him, if she would.
But would she ? Frances asked herself. Most
likely, she would do nothing, and there would
be no longer any room left for Frances, who
was ready to do all. She would have been
more than mortal if she had not looked with a
certain bitterness . at this new and wonderful
aspect of affairs.

I saw mamma's brougham at the door,"
Constance said ; " you must take me home. Of
course, this was the place for papa to come ;
but I must go home. It would never do to let
mamma think me devoid of feeling;. How is
she, and Markham  and everybody ? I have
scarcely had any news for three months. We

met Algy Muucastle on the boat, and lie told
us some things  a great deal about Xelly
Winterbourn  the widow, as they call her 
and about you."

"There could be nothing to say of me."
Oh, but there was, though. AVhat a sly
little thing you are, never to say a word ! Sir
Thomas.  Ah, you see I know. And I congratulate
you with all ni' heart. Fan. He is
rolling in money, and such a good kind old
man. Why, he was a lover of mamma's dans
les temps. It is delightful to think of you consoling
him. And you will be as rich as a little
princess, with mamma to see that all the settlements
are right."

I don't know what you mean," Frances said
abruptly. She was so preoccupied and so impatient,
that she would not even allow herself
to inquire. She went to where her father sat
talking to his sister, and stood behind his chair,
putting her hand upon his arm. He did not
perhaps care fur her very much. He had aunt
Caroline to think of, from whom he had been
separated so long; and Constance, no doubt,
had made him her own too, as she had made

everybody else her own ; but still lie was all
that Frances had, the nearest, the one that belonged
to her most. To touch him like this
gave her a little consolation. And he turned
round and smiled at her, and put his hand upon
hers. That was a little comfort too ; but it did
not last long. It was time she should return to
her mother ; and Constance was anxious to go,
notwithstanding her fear that her father might
be bored. " I must go and see my mother, you
know, papa. It would be very disrespectful not
to go. And you won't want me, now you have
got aunt Caroline. Frances is going to drive
me home." She said this as if it was her sister's
desire to go ; but as a matter of fact, she had
taken the command at once. Frances, reluctant
beyond measure to return to the house, in
which she felt she would no longer be wanted 
which was a perverse imagination, born of her
unhappiness  wretched to lose the prospect
of help, which she had been beginning to let
herself believe in, was yet too shy and too
miserable to make any resistance. She remembered
her mother's note for Mr Clarendon
before she went away, and she made one last

appeal to her aunt. "You will not forget what
wee were talking about, aunt Caroline ? "

"Dear me," said Mrs Clarendon, putting up
her hand to her head. " What was it, Frances ?
I have such a poor memory ; and your father's
coming, and all this unexpected happiness, have
driven everything else away."

Frances went downstairs with a heart so
heavy that it seemed to lie dead in her breast.
Was there no help for her, then ? no help for
him, the victim of Constance and of Markham ?
no way of softening calamity to the old people ?
Her temper rose as her hopes fell. All so rich,
so abounding, but no one who would spare anything
out of his superfluity, to help the ruined
and heartbroken. Oh yes, she said to herself
in not unnatural bitterness, the hospitals, yes ;
and Trotter's Buildings in Whitechapel. But
for the people to idiom they were bound so
much more closely, the man who had sat at
their tables, whom they had received and made
miserable, nothing ! oh, nothing ! not a finger
held out to save him. The little countenance
that had been like a summer day, so innocent
and fresh and candid, was clouded over. Pride

prevented  pride, more effectual than any other
defence  the outburst which in other circumstances
would have relieved her heart. She satin
her corner, withdrawn as far as possible from
Constance, listening dully, making little response.
After several questions, her sister
turned upon her with a surprise which was
natural too.

"What is the matter?" she said. "You
don't talk as you used to do. Is it town that
has spoiled you ? Do you think I will interfere
with you ? Oh, you need not be at all afraid.
I have enough of my owen without meddling
with you."

I don't know what I have that you could
interfere with," said Frances. " Nothing here."

"Do you want to quarrel with me?" Constance
said.

"It is of no use to quarrel ; there is nothing
to quarrel about. I might have thought you
would interfere dien you came first to Cordillera.
I had people then dio seemed to
belong to me. But here  you have the
first place. Why should I quarrel? You are
only coming back to your owen."

Fan, for goodness' sake, don't speak in that
dreadful tone. What have I done ? If you
think jjapa likes me best, you are mistaken.
And as for the mother, don't you know her
yet ? Don't you know that she is nice to
everybody, and cares neither for you nor me ? "

''No," cried Frances, raising herself bolt upright
; "I don't know that ! How dare you say
it, you who are her child ? Perhaps you think
no one cares  not one, though you have made
an end of my home. Did you hear about
George Gaunt, what you have done to him ?
He is losing in a brain-fever, raving, raving,
talking for ever, day and night ; and if he
dies, Markham and you will have killed him
you and Markham ; but you have been the
worst. It will be murder, and you should be
killed for it ! " the girl cried. Her eyes blazed
upon her sister in the close inclosure of the
little brougham. "You thought he did not
care, either, perhaps."

Fan ! Good heavens ! I think you must be
going out of your senses," Constance cried.

Frances was not able to say any more. She
was stifled by the commotion of her feelings,

VOL. II [. Q

her heart beating so wildly in her breast, her
emotion reaching; the intolerable. The brougham
stopped, and she sprang out and ran into the
house, hurrying up-stairs to her own room.
Constance, more surprised and disconcerted
than she could have believed possible, nevertheless
came in with an air of great composure,
saying a word in passing to the astonished servant
at the door. She was quite amiable always
to the people about her. She walked up-stairs,
remarking, as she passed, a pair of new vases
with palms in them, which decorated the staircase,
and which she approved. She opened the
drawing-room door in her pretty, languid-stately,
always leisurely way.

How are you, mamma ? Frances has run upstairs;
but here am I, just come back," she said.

Lady Markham rose from her seat with a
little scream of astonishment. " Constance !
It is not possible. Who would have dreamed
of seeing you ! " she cried.

Oh yes, it is quite possible," said Constance,
when they had kissed, with a prolonged encounter
of lips and cheeks. " Surely, you did
not think I could keep very long away ? "

''My darling, did you get homesick, or
mammy-sick as Markham says, after all your
philosophy ? "

I am so glad to see you, mamma, and looking
so well. No, not home-sick, precisely, dear
mother, but penetrated with the folly of staying;
there, where nothings ever coins, when
I might have been in the centre of everything :
which is saying much the same thing, though
in different words."

"In very different words," said Lady Markham,
resuming her seat with a smile. " I see
you have not changed at all. Con. Will you
have any tea? ind did you leave  your home
there  with as little ceremony as you left me ! "

May I help myself, mamma ? don't you
trouble. It is very nice to see your pretty
china, instead of Frances' old bizarre cups,
which were much too good for me. Oh, I did
not leave my  home. I  brought it back with
me.

You brought ? "

My father with me, mamma."

Oh ! " Lady Markham said. She was too
much astonished to say more.

"Perhaps it was because lie got very tired of
me, and thought there was no other way of
getting rid of me ; perhaps because he was tired
of it himself. He came at last like a lamb. I
did not really believe it till we were on the
boat, and Algy Muncastle turned up, and I
introduced him to my father. You should
have seen how he stared."

Oh 1 " said Lady Markham again ; and then
she added faintly : " Is  is he here ? "

'' You mean papa ? I left him at aunt Caroline's.
In the circumstances, that seemed the
best thing to do."

Lady Markham leaned back in her chair ; she
had become very pale. One shock after another
had reduced her strength. She closed her eyes
while Constance very comfortably sipped her
tea. It was not possible that she could have
dreamed it or imagined it, when, on opening
her eyes again, she saw Constance sitting by
the tea-table with a plate of bread and butter
before her. " I have really," she explained
seriously, "eaten nothing to-day."

Frances came down some time after, having
bathed her eyes and smoothed her hair. It was

always smooth like satin, shining in the light.
She came in, in her unobtrusive way, ashamed
of herself for her outburst of temper, and determined
to be " good," whatever might happen.
She was surprised that there was no conversation
going on. Constance sat in a chair which
Frances at once recognised as having been hers
from the beginning of time, wondering at her
own audacity in having sat in it, when she did
not know. Lady Markham was still leaning
back in her chair. " Oh, it's nothing  only a
little giddiness. So many strange things are
happening. Did 3'ou give your uncle Clarendon
my note ? I suppose Frances told you.
Con, how we have been upset to-day ? "

Upset ? " said Constance over her bread and
butter. " I should have thought you would
have been immensely pleased. It is about Sir
Thomas, I suppose ? "

About Sir Thomas ! Is there any news
about Sir Thomas ? " said Lady Markham, with
an elaborately innocent look. " If so, it has
not yet been confided to me." And then she
proceeded to tell to her daughter the story of
Nelly Winterbourn.

'' I should have thought that would all have
been set right in the settlements," Constance
said.

"So it ouo'ht. But she had no one to see to
the settlements  no one with a real interest in
her ; and it was such a magnificent match."

"No better than Sir Thomas, mamma."

"Ah, Sir Thomas. Is there really a story
about Sir Thomas ? I can only say, if it is so,
that he has never confided it to me."

I hope no mistake will be made about the
settlements in that case. And what do you
suppose Markham will do ? "

What can he do ? He will do nothing, Con.
You know, after all, that is the role that suits
him best. Even if all had been well, unless
Nelly had asked him herself "

Do you think she would have minded, after
all this time ? But I suppose there's an end of
Nelly now," Constance said, regretfully.

I am afraid so," Lady Markham replied.
And then recovering, she began to tell her
daughter the news  all the news of this one
and the other, which Frances had never been
able to understand, which Constance entered

into as one to the manner born. They left
the subject of Nelly Winterbonrn, and not a
word was said of young Gaunt and his fever ;
but apart from these subjects, everything that
had happened since Constance left England
was discussed between them. They talked
and smiled and rippled over into laughter, and
passed in review the thousand friends whose
little follies and freaks both knew, and skimmed
across the surface of tragedies with a consciousness,
that gave piquancy to the amusement, of
the terrible depths beneath. Frances, keeping
behind, not willing to show her troubled countenance,
from which the traces of tears were
not easily effaced, listened to this light talk
with a wonder which almost reached the height
of awe. Her mother at least must have many
grave matters in her mind ; and even on Constance,
the consciousness of having stirred up
all the quiescent evils in the family history, of
her father in Norland, of the meeting; which
must take place between the husband and wife
so long parted, all by her influence, must have
a certain weight. But there they sat and talked
and laughed, and shot their little shafts of wit.

Frances, at last feeling her heart ache too much
for further repression, and that the pleasant interchange
between her mother and sister exasperated
instead of lightened her burdened soul,
left them, and sought refuge in her room, where
presently she heard their voices again as they
came up - stairs to dress. Constance's boxes
had in the meantime arrived from the railway,
and the conversation was very animated upon
fashions and new adaptations and what to
wear. Then the door of Constance's room was
closed, and Lady Markham came tapping at
that of Frances. She took the girl into her
arms. "Now," she said, "my dream is going
to be realised, and I shall have my two girls,
one on each side of me. My little Frances, are
you not glad ? "

Mother " the girl said, faltering, and

stopped, not able to say any more.

Lady Markham kissed her tenderly, and
smiled, as if she were content. Was she content
? Was the happiness, now she had it, as
great as she said ? Was she able to be lighthearted
with all these complications round her ?
But to these questions who could give any

answer ? Presently lie went to dress, slitting
the door ; and, between lier two girls,
retired so many hundred, so many thousand
miles away  who could tell ?  into herself.

In the evening; there was considerable stir
and commotion in the house. Markham,
warned by one of his mother's notes, came to
dinner full of affectionate pleasure in Con's
return, and cheerful inquiries for her. " As
yet, you have lost nothing, Con. As yet, nobody
has got well into the swim. As to how
the mammy will feel with two daughters to
take about, that is a mystery. If we had
known, we'd have shut up little Fan in the
nursery for a year more."

'sit is I that should be sent to the nursery,"
said Constance. " Three months is a long time.
Algy Muncastle thought I was dead and buried.
He looked at me as if he were seeing a ghost."

"A girl might just as well be dead and
buried as let half the season slip over and
never appear."

Unless she were a widow," said Con.

Ah ! unless she were a widow, as you say.
That 'changes the face of affairs." Markham

made a slight involuntary retreat when he received
that blow, but no one mentioned the
name of Nelly Winterbourn. It was much too
serious to be taken any notice of now. In the
brightness of Lady Markliam's drawing-room,
with all its softened lights, grave subjects where
only discussed tete-astute. When the company
was more than two, everything took a sportive
turn. Of the two visitors, however, who came
in later, one was not at all disposed to follow
this rule. Sir Thomas said but little to Constance,
though her arrival was part of the
news which had brought him here ; but he
held Lady Markliam's hand with an anxious
look into her eyes, and as soon as he could,
drew Frances aside to the distant corner in
which she was fond of placing herself " Do
you know he has come ? " he cried.

I have seen papa, Sir Thomas, if that is
what you mean."

'' What else could I mean ? " said Sir Thomas.
'' You know how I have tried for this. What
did he say ? I want to know what disposition
he is in. And what disposition is she in ?
Frances, you and I have a great deal to do.

We have the ball at our feet. There is nobody
acting in both their interests but you
and I."

There was something in Frances' eyes and
in her look of mute endurance which startled
him, even in the midst of his enthusiasm.
"What is the matter ? " he said. " I have not
forgotten our bargain. I will do much for you,
if you will work for mCc And you want something.
Come, tell me what it is ? "

She gave him a look of reproach. Had he,
too, forgotten the sick and miserable, the sufferer,
of whom no one thought ? "Sir Thomas,"
she said, "Constance has money; she has
stopped at Paris to buy dresses. Oh, give me
what is my share."

I remember now," he said.

Then you know the only thing that anyone
can do for me. Oh, Sir Thomas, if you
could but give it me now."

Shall I speak to your father ? " he asked.

These words Markham heard by chance, ashe
passed them to fetch something his mother
wanted. He returned to where she sat with
a curious look in his little twinkling eyes.

What is Sir Thomas after ? Do you know
the silly story that is about ? They say that
old fellow is after Lady Markham's daughter.
It had better be put a stop to, mother. I
won't have anything go amiss with little Fan."

Go amiss ! with Sir Thomas. There is nobody
he might not marry, Markham  not that
anything has ever been said."

"Let him have anybody he pleases except
little Fan. I won't have anything happen to
Fan. She is not one that would stand it, like
the rest of us. We are old stagers ; we are
trained for the stake ; we know how to grin and
bear it. But that little thing, she has never
been brought up to it, and it would kill her. I
won't have anything go wrong with little Fan."

There is nothing going wrong with Frances.
You are not talking with your usual sense,
Markham. If that was coming, Frances would
be a lucky girl."

Markham looked at her with his eyes all
pursed up, nearly disappearing in the puckers
round them. "Mother," he said, "we know a
girl who was a very lucky girl, you and I.
Eemember Nelly Winterbourn."

It gave Lady Markliam a shock to hear
Xelly's name. "0 Markham, the less we say
of her the better," she cried.

There was another arrival while they talked
Claude Eamsa}, with the flower in his coat
a little rubbed by the greatcoat which he had
taken ofl" in the hall, though it was now June.
I heard you had come back," he said, dropping
languidly into a chair by Constance. '' I
thought I would come and see if it was true."

"You see it is quite true."

'' Yes ; and you are looking as well as possible.
Everything seems to agree with you.
Do you know I was very nearly going out to
that little place in the Eiviera ? I got all the
renseignements ; but then I heard that it got
hot and the people went away."

You ought to have come. Don't you know
it is at the back of the east wind, and there
are no draughts there ? "

What an ideal place ! " said Claude. " I
shall certainly go next winter, if you are going
to be there."

CHAPTER XLVI.

Faces slept very little all night ; lier mind
was jarred and sore almost at every point.
The day with all its strange experiences, and
still more strange suggestions, had left her ina
giddy round of the unreal, in which there
seemed no ground to stand upon. Nelly
Winterbourn was the first prodigy in that
round of wonders. Why, with that immovable
tragic face, had she intimated to Lady
Markham the tenure upon which she held
her fortune ? Why had it been received as
something conclusive on all sides ? " There is
an end of Nelly." But why ? And then came
her mission to her aunt, the impression that
had been made on her mind  the hope that
had dawned on Frances; and then the event
which swept both hope and impression away.

and the bitter end that seemed to come to
everything in the reappearance of Constance.
Was it that she was jealous of Constance ?
Frances asked herself in the silence of the
night, with noiseless bitter tears. The throbbing
of her heart was all pain ; life had become
pain, and nothing more. Was it that she was
jealous -jealous of her sister ? It seemed to
Frances that her heart was being; wrung:,
pressed till the life came out of it in great
drops under some giant's hands. She said to
herself, No, no. It was only that Constance
came in her careless grace, and the place washers,
wherever she came ; and all Frances had
done, or was trying to do, came to nought.
Was that jealousy? She lay awake through
the long hours of the summer night, seeing
the early dawn grow blue, and then warm
and lighten into the light of day. And then
all the elements of chaos round her, which
whirled and whirled and left no honest footing,
came to a pause and disappeared, and one
thing real, one fact remained  George Gaunt
in his fever, lying rapt from all common life,
taking no note of night or day. Perhaps the

tide might be turning for death or life, for
this was once more the clay that might be the
crisis. The other matters blended into a
phantasmagoria, of which Frances could not
tell which part was false and which true, or
if anything was true ; but here was reality
beyond dispute. She thought of the pale light
stealing into his room, blinding; the ineffectual
candles ; of his weary head on the pillow growing
visible ; of the long endless watch ; and faraway
among the mountains, of the old people
waiting and praying, and wondering what
news the morning would bring them. This
thought stung; Frances into a keen life and
energy, and took from her all reflection upon
matters so abstract as that question whether
or not she was jealous of Constance. What
did it matter ? so long as he could be brought
back from the gates of death and the edge of
the grave, so long as the father and mother
could be saved from that awful and murderous
blow. She got up hastily long before anyone
was stirring. There are moments when
all our ineffectual thinking, and even futile
efforts, end in a sudden determination that

the thing must be done, and revelation of
how to do it. She got up with a little
tremor upon her, such as a great inventor
might have when he saw at last his way
clearly, or a poet when he had caught the
spark of celestial fire. Is there any machine
that was ever invented, or even any power so
divine as the right way to save a life and
deliver a soul? Frances' little frame was all
tinoiino, but it made her mind clear and firm.
She asked herself how she could have thought
of any other but this way.

It was very early in the morning when
she set out. If it had not been London, in
which no dew falls, the paths would have been
wet with dew ; even in London, there was a
magical something; in the air which breathed
of the morning, and which not all the housemaids'
brooms and tradesmen's carts in the
world could dispel. Frances walked on in
the stillness, along the long silent line of the
Park, where there was nobody save a little
early schoolmistress, or perhaps a belated man
about town, surprised by the morning, with
red eyes and furtive looks, in the overcoat
VOL. IIL B.

troubled eyes. But her father would understand.
This was the chief things and the best.
She went along under the trees, which were
still fresh and green, through the scenes which,
a little while later, would be astir with all the
movements, the comedies, the tragedies, the
confusions and complications of life. But now
they lay like a part of the fair silent country,
like the paths in a wood, like the glades in a
park, all silent and mute, birds in the branches,
dew upon the grass  a place where Town had
abdicated, where Nature reigned.

Marino; awoke betimes, being; accustomed to
the early hours of a primitive people. It was a
curious experience to him to come down through
a closed-up and silent house, where the sunshine
came in between the chinks of the
shutters, and all was as it had been in the
confusion of the night. A frightened maidservant
came before him to open the study,
which his brother-in-law Clarendon had occupied
till a late hour. Traces of the lawyer's
vigil were still apparent enough  his wastepaper
basket full of fragments ; the little tray
standing' in the corner, which, even when holding

nothing more than soda-water and claret,
suggests dissipation in the morning. Waring
was jarred by all this unpreparedness. He
thought with a sigh of the workroom in the
Palazzo all open to the sweet morning air,
before the sun had come round that way ; and
when he stepped out upon the little iron
balcony attached to the window and looked
out upon other backs of houses, all crowding
round, the recollection of the blue seas, the
waving palms, the great peaks, all carved
against the brilliant sky, made him turn back
in disgust. The mean London walls of yellow
brick, the narrow houses, the little windows,
all blinded with white blinds and curtains, so
near that he could almost touch them  " However,
it will not be like this at Hilborough," he
said to himself. He was no longer in the mood
in which he had left Bordighera ; but yet, having
left it, he was ready to acknowledge that
Bordighera was now impossible. His life there
had continued from year to year  it might have
continued for ever, with Frances ignorant of all
that had gone before ; but the thread of life
once broken, could be knitted again no more.

He acknowledged this to himself; and then
he found that, in acknowledging it, he had
brought himself face to face with all the gravest
problems of his life. He had held them at
arm's-length for years ; but now they had to
be decided, and there was no alternative. He
must meet them ; he must look them in the
face. And her, too, he must look in the face.
Life once more had come to a point at which
neither habit nor the past could help him. Allover
again, as if he were a boy coming of age,
it would have to be decided what it should be.

Waring was not at all surprised by the appearance
of Frances fresh with the morning air
about her. It seemed quite natural to him.
He had forgotten all about the London streets,
and how far it was from one point to another.
He thought she had gained much in her short
absence from him,  perhaps in learning how to
act for herself, to think for herself, which she
had acquired since she left him ; for he was
entirely unaware, and even quite incapable of
being instructed, that Frances had lived her
little life as far apart from him, and been as
independent of him while sitting by his side

at Borclighera, as she could have been at the
other end of the world. But he was impressed
by the steady light of resolution, the cause of
which was as yet unknown to him, which was
shining in her eyes. She told him her story
at once, without the little explanations that
had been necessary to the others. When she
said George Gaunt, he knew all that there was
to say. The only thing that it was expedient
to conceal was Markham's part in the catastrophe,
which was, after all, not at all clear
to Frances ; and as Waring was not acquainted
with Markham's reputation, there was no suggestion
in his mind of the name that was
wanting to explain how the young officer,
knowing nobody, had found entrance into the
society which had ruined him. Frances told
her tale in few words. She was magnanimous,
and said nothing of Constance on the one hand,
any more than of Markham on the other. She
told her father of the condition in which the
young man lay  of his constant muttering, so
painful to hear, the Eed and Black that came up,
over and over again, in his confused thoughts,
the distracting; burden that awaited him if

he ever got free of that circle of confusion
and pain  of the old people in Switzerland
waiting for the daily news, not coming to
him as they wished, because of that one dread
yet vulgar difficulty which only she understood.
Mamma says, of course they would not
hesitate at the expense. Oh no, no ! they would
not hesitate. But how can I make her understand
? yet we know."

"How could she understand?" he said with
a pale smile, which Frances knew. " She has
never hesitated." It was all that jarred even
upon her excited nerves and mind. The situation
was so much more clear to him than
to the others, to whom young Gaunt was a
stranger. And Waring, too, was in his nature
something of a Quixote to those who took him
on the generous side. He listened  he understood
; he remembered all that had been enacted
under his eyes. The young fellow had
gone to London in desperation, unsettled, and
wounded by the woman to whom he had given
his love  and he had fallen into the first snare
that presented itself It was weak, it was miserable
; but it was not more than a man could

understand. When Frances found that at last
her object was attained, the unlikeliness that it
ever should have been attained, overwhelmed
her even in the moment of victory. She
clasped her arms round her father's arm, and
laid down her head upon it, and, to his great
surprise, burst into a passion of tears. "What
is the matter ? What has happened ? Have
I said anything to hurt you ? " he cried, half
touched, half vexed, not knowing what it was,
smoothing her glossy hair half tenderly, half
reluctantly, with his disengaged hand.

Oh, it is nothing, nothing ! It is my folly ;
it is  happiness. I have tried to tell them all,
and no one would understand. But one's father
one's father is like no one else," cried Frances,
with her cheek upon his sleeve.

Waring was altogether penetrated by these
simple words, and by the childish action, which
reminded him of the time when the little forlorn
child he had carried away with him had
no one but him in the world. " My dear," he
said, " it makes me happy that you think so.
I have been rather a failure, I fear, in most
things ; but if you think so, I can't have been

a failure all round." His heart grew very soft
over his little girl. He was in a new world,
though it was the old one. His sister, whom
he had not seen for so long, had half disgusted
him with her violent partisanship, though his
was the party she upheld so strongly. And
Constance, who had no hold of habitual union
upon him, had exhibited all her faults to his
eyes. But his little girl was still his little
mrl, and believed in her father. It brought a
softening of all the ice and snow about his
heart.

They walked together through the many
streets to inquire for poor Gaunt, and were
admitted with shaking of the head and downcast
looks. He had passed a very disturbed
night, though at present he seemed to sleep.
The nurse who had been up all night, and
was much depressed, was afraid that there
were symptoms of a " change." " I think the
parents should be sent for, sir," she said, addressing
herself at once to Waring. These
attendants did not mind what they said over
the uneasy bed. " He don't know what wee
are saying, any more than the bed he lies

on. Look at him, miss, and tell me if you
don't think there is a change ? " Frances held
fast by her father's arm. She was more diffident
in his presence than she had been before.
The sufferer's gaunt face was flushed, his lips
moved, though, in his weakness, his words were
not audible. The other nurse, who had come
to relieve her colleague, and who was fresh
and unwearied, was far more hoped. But
she, too, thought that ''a change" might be
approaching, and that it would be well to
summon the friends. She went downstairs
with them to talk it over a little more. ' It
seems to me that he takes more notice than
we are aware of," she said. " The ways of sick
folks are that wonderful, we don't understand,
not the half of them ; seems to me that you
have a kind of an influence, miss. Last night
he changed after you were here, and took me
for his mamma, and asked me what I meant,
and said something about a Miss Lena that was
true, and a false Jessie or something, I
wonder if your name is Miss Una, miss ? "
This inquiry was made while Waring was
writing a telegram to the parents. Frances,

who was not very quick, could only wonder
for a long time who Una was and Jessie. It
was not till evening, nearly twelve hours after,
that there suddenly came into her mind the
false Duessa of the poet. And then the question
remained, who was Una, and who Duessa ?
a question to which she could find no reply.

Frances remained with her father the greater
part of the day. When she found that what
she desired was to be done, there fell a strange
kind of lull into her being, which unaccountably
took away her strength, so that she scarcely
felt herself able to hold up her head. She
began to be aware that she had neither slept
by night nor had any peace by day, and that
a fever of the mind had been stealing upon
her, a sort of reflection of the other fever, in
which her patient was enveloped as in a living
shroud. She was scarcely able to stand, and
yet she could not rest. Had she not put force
upon herself, she would have been sending to
and fro all day, creeping thither on limbs that
would scarcely support her, to know how he was,
or if the change had yet appeared. She had
not feared for his life before, having no tradition

of death in her mind ; but now an alarm
grew upon her that any moment might seethe
blow fall, and that the parents might
come in vain. It was while she stood ant one
of the windows of Mrs Clarendon's gloomy
drawing-room, watching for the return of one
of her messengers, that she saw her mother's
well-known brougham drive up to the door.
She turned round with a little cry of " Mamma "
to where her father was sitting, in one of the
seldom used chairs. Mrs Clarendon, who would
not leave him for many minutes, was hovering
by, wearying his fastidious mind with unnecessary
solicitude, and a succession of questions
which he neither could nor wished to
answer. She flung up her arms when she
heard Frances' cry. "Your mother! Oh,
has she dared ! Edward, go away, and let
me meet her. She will not get much out of
me.

Do you think I am going to fly from my
wife ? " Waring said. He rose up very tremulous,
yet with a certain dignity. " In that case,
I should not have come here."

But, Edward, you are not prepared.
Edward, be guided by me. If you once get
into that woman's hands "

"Hush!" he said; "her daughter is here."
Then, with a smile : " When a lady comes to
see me, I hope I can receive her still as a gentleman
should, whoever she may be."

The door opened, and Lady Markham came
in. She was very pale, yet flushed from moment
to moment. She, who had usually such
perfect self-command, betrayed her agitation
by little movements, by the clasping and unclasping
of her hands, by a hurried, slightly
audible breathing. She stood for a moment
without advancing, the door closing behind her,
facing the agitated group. Frances, following
an instinctive impulse, went hastily towards
her mother as a maid of honour in an emergency
might hurry to take her place behind
the Queen. Mrs Clarendon on her side, with a
similar impulse, drew nearer to her brother 
the way was cleared between the two, once
lovers, now antagonists. The pause was but
for a moment. Lady Markham, after that

hesitation, came forward. She said : "Edward,
I should be wanting in my duty if I did not
come to welcome you home."

Home ! " he said, with a curious smile.
Then he, too, came forward a little. '' I accept
your advances in the same spirit, Frances."
She was holding out her hands to him with a
little appeal, looking at him with eyes that sank
and rose ao;ain  an emotion that was restrained
by her age, by her matronly person, by the
dignity of the woman, which could not be
quenched by any flood of feeling. He took
her hands in his with a strange timidity, hesitating,
as if there might be something more,
then let them drop, and they stood once again
apart.

'' I have to thank you, too," she said, " for
bringing Constance back to me safe and well ;
and what is more, Edward, for this child."
She put out her hand to Frances, and drew her
close, so that the girl could feel the agitation
in her mother's whole person, and knew that,
weak as she was, she was a support to the other,
who was so much stronger. " I owe you more
thanks still for her  that she never had been

taught to think any harm of her mother, that
she came back to me as innocent and true as
she went away."

"If you found her so, Frances, it was to her
own praise, rather than mine."

"Nay," she said with a tremulous smile, "I
have not to learn now that the father of my
children was fit to be trusted with a girl's mind
more, perhaps, than their mother  and the
world together." She shook off this subject,
which was too germane to the whole matter,
with a little tremulous movement of her head
and hands. " We must not enter on that,"
she said. "Though I am only a woman of
the world, it might be too much for me. Discussion
must be for another time. But we maybe
friends."

So far as I am concerned."

And I too, Edward. There are things even
we might consult about  without prejudice, as
the lawyers say  for the children's good."

Whatever you wish my advice upon "

Yes, that is perhaps the way to put it,"
Lady Markham said, after a pause which looked
like disappointment, and with an agitated smile.

"Will you be so friendly, then," she added, "as
to dine at my house with the girls and me ?
No one you dislike will be there. Sir Thomas,
who is in great excitement about your arrival ;
and perhaps Claude Ramsay, idiom Constance
has come back to marry."

Then she has settled that ? "

I think so ; yet no doubt she would like
him to be seen by you. I hope you sill come,"
she said, looking up at him with a smile.

It weill be very strange," he said, " to dine
as a guest at your table."

Yes, Edward ; but everything is strange.
We are so much older now than we were.
We can afford, perhaps, to disagree, and yet
be friends."

I will come if it will give you any pleasure,"
he said.

"Certainly, it will give me pleasure." She
had been standing; all the time, not having even
been offered a seat an omission which neither
he nor she had discovered. He did it now,
placing with great politeness a chair for her ;
but she did not sit down.

For the first time, perhaps it is enough,"

she said. " And Caroline thinks it more than
enough. Good-bye, Edward. If you will believe
me, I am  truly glad to see you : and I
hope we may be friends."

She half raised her clasped hands again.
This time he took them in both his, and
leaning towards her, kissed her on the forehead.
Frances felt the tremor that ran
through her mother's frame. " Good-bye,"
she said, " till this evening." Only the girl
knew why Lady Markham hurried from the
room. She stopped in the hall below to regain
her self-command and arrange her bonnet. "It
is so long since we have met," she said, "it upsets
me. Can you wonder, Frances ? The woman in
the end always feels it most. And then there
are so many things to upset me just now. Constance
and Markham  say nothing of Markham;
do not mention his name  and even you "

"There is nothing about me to annoy you,
mamma."

Lady Markham smiled with a face that was
near crying. She gave a little tap with her
finger upon Frances' cheek, and then she
hurried away.

VOL. IIL S

CHAPTEK Xlvi

The dinner, it need scarcely be said, was a
strange one. Except in Constance, who was
perfectly cool, and Claude, who was more
concerned about a possible draught from a
window than anything else, there was much
agitation in the rest of the party. Lady Markham
was nervously cordial, anxious to talk and
to make everything "go"  which, indeed, she
would have done far more effectually had she
been able to retain her usual cheerful and
benign composure. But there are some things
which are scarcely possible even to the most
accomplished woman of the world. How to
place the guests, even, had been a trouble to
her, almost too great to be faced. To place
her husband by her side was more than she
could bear, and where else could it be appropriate

to place him, unless opposite to her,
where the master of the house should sit ?
The difficulty was solved loosely by placing
Constance there, and her father beside her.
He sat between his daughters ; while Kamsay
and Sir Thomas were on either side of his wife.
Under such circumstances, it was impossible
that the conversation could be other than
formal, with outbursts of somewhat conventional
vivacity from Sir Thomas, supported
by anxious responses from Lady Markham.
Frances took refuge in saying nothing at all.
And Waring sat like a g-host, with a smile on
his face, in which there was a sort of pathetic
humour, dashed with something that was half
derision. To be sitting there at all was wonderful
indeed, and to be listening to the small-talk
of a London dinner-table, with all its
little discussions, its talk of plays and pictures
and people, its scraps of political life behind
the scenes, its esoteric revelations on all subjects,
was more wonderful still. He had half
forgotten it ; and to come thus at a single step
into the midst of it all, and hear this babble
floating on the air which was claro-ed with so

many tragic elements, was more wonderful still.
To think that they should all be looking at
each other across the flowers and the crystal,
and knowing what questions were to be solved
between them, yet talking and expecting others
to talk of the new tenor and the last scandal !
It seemed to the stranger out of the wilds,
who had been banished from society so long,
that it was a thing incredible, when he was
thus thrown into it again. There were allusions
to many things which he did not understand.
There was something, for instance,
about Nelly Winterbourn which called forth a
startling response from Lady Markham. " You
must not," she said, " say anything about poor
Nelly in this house. From my heart, I am
sorry and grieved for her ; but in the circumstances,
what can any one do ? The least said,
the better, especially here." The pause after,
this was minute but marked, and Waring asked
Constance, " Who is Nelly Winterbourn ? "

She is a 3oung widow, papa. It was
thought her husband had left her a large fortune
; but he has left it to her on the condition
that she should not marry again."

Is that why she is not to be spoken of
in this house ? " said Waring, growing red.
This explanation had been asked and given
in an undertone. He thought it referred to
the circumstances in which his own marriage
had taken place  Lady Markham being a
young widow with a large jointure ; and that
this was the reason why the other was not
to be mentioned ; and it gave him a hot sense
of offence, restrained by the politeness which
is exercised in society, but not always when
the offenders are one's wife and children. It
turned the tide of softened thoughts back upon
his heart, and increased to fierceness the derision
with which he listened to all the trifles
that floated uppermost. When the ladies left
the room, he did not meet the questioning,
almost timid, look that Lady Markham threw
upon him. He saw it, indeed, but he would
not respond to it. That allusion had spoiled
all the rest.

In the little interval after dinner, Claude
Kamsa} did his best to make himself agreeable.
"I am very glad to see you back, sir,"
he said. " I told Lady Markham it was the

rioiit tliino\ When a iii lias a father, it's
always odd that lie slioiildii't appear."

Oil, you told Lady Markham that it was
the rig-ht thiiio; ? "

"A coincidence, wasn't it? when you were
on your way," said Claude, perceiving the mistake
he had made. " You know, sir," he added
with a little hesitation, " that it has all been
made up for a long time between Constance
and me."

"Yes? What has all been made up? I
understand that my daughter came out to me

to

Oh ! " said Claude, interrupting hurriedly,
"it is tJiat that has all been made up. Constance
has been very nice about it," he continued.
" She has been making a study of the
Eiviera, and collecting all sorts of resigned
; for in most cases, it is necessary forme
to winter abroad."

That was what she was doing then  her
object, I suppose ? " said Waring with a grim
smile.

Besides the pleasure of visiting you, sir,"
said Claude, with what he felt to be great

tact. " She seems to have done a great deal
of exploring, and she tells me she has found
just the right site for the \dlla  and all the
renseignementsj' he added. " To have been
on the spot, and studied the aspect, and how
the winds blow, is such a great thing ; and
to be near your place too," he said politely,
by an after-thought.

"Which I hope is to be your place no more,
Waring," said Sir Thomas. "Your own place
is very empty, and craving for you all the
time."

"It is too fine a question to say what is my
owen place," he said, with that pale indignant
smile. " Things are seldom made any clearer
by an absence of a dozen years."

A great deal clearer  the mists blow away,
and the hot fumes. Come, Waring, say you
are glad you have come home."

I suppose," said Claude, " you find it really
too hot for summer on that coast. What would
you say was the end of the season? May?
Just when London begins to be possible, and
most people have come to town."

Is not that one of the renseignements Constance

lias given you?" Waring asked with
a short laugh; but he made no reply to the
other questions. And then there was a little
of the inevitable politics before the gentlemen
went up-stairs. Lady Markham had been
threatened with what in France is called an
attaque des nerfs, when she reached the shelter
of the drawing-room. She was a little hysterical,
hardly able to get the better of the sobbing
which assailed her. Constance stood apart, and
looked on with a little surprise. "You know,
mamma," she said reflectively, " an effort is the
only thing. With an effort, you can stop it."

Frances was differently affected by this emotion.
She, who had never learned to be
familiar, stole behind her mother's chair and
made her breast a pillow for Lady Markham's
head,  a breast in which the heart was beating
now high, now low, with excitement and despondency.
She did not say anything; but
there is sometimes comfort in a touch. It
helped Lady Markham to subdue the unwonted
spasm. She held close for a moment the arms
which were over her shoulders, and she replied
to Constance, "Yes, that is true. I

am ashamed of myself. I ought to know better
at my age."

"It has gone off on the whole very well,"
Constance said. And then she retired to a
sofa and took up a book.

Lady Markham held Frances' hand in hers
for a moment or two long-er, then drew her
towards her and kissed her, still without a
word. They had approached nearer to each
other in that silent encounter than in all that
had passed before. Lady Markham's heart was
full of many commotions ; the past was rising
up around her with all its agitating recollections.
She looked back, and saw, oh, so clearly
in that pale light which can never alter, the
scenes that ought never to have been, the
words that ought never to have been said,
the faults, the mistakes  those things which
were fixed there for ever, not to be forgotten.
Could they ever be forgotten? Could any
postscript be put to the finished story? Or
was this strange meeting  unsought, scarcely
desired on either side, into which the separated
Two, who ought to have been One,
seemed to have been driven without any will

of their own  was it to be mere useless additional
pain, and no more?

The ladies were all very peacefully employed
when the gentlemen came up-stairs. Lady
Markham turned round as usual from her
writing-table to receive them with a smile.
Constance laid down her book. Frances,
from her accustomed dim corner, lifted up her
eyes to watch them as they came in. They
stood in the middle of the room for a minute,
and talked to each other according to the embarrassed
usage of Englishmen, and then they
distributed themselves. Sir Thomas fell to
Frances' share. He turned to her eagerly,
and took her hand and pressed it warmly.
"We have done it," he said, in an excited
whisper. " So far, all is victorious ; but still
there is a great deal more to do."

I think it is Constance that has done it,"
Frances said.

'she has worked for us  without meaning
it  no doubt. But I am not going to give
up the credit to Constance ; and there is still
a great deal to do. You must not lay down
your arms, my dear. You and I, we have the

ball at our feet : but there is a great deal
still to do."

Frances made no reply'. The corner which
she had chosen for herself was almost concealed
behind a screen which parted the room in two.
The other group made a picture far enough
withdrawn to gain perspective. AVariiig stood
near his wife, who from time to time gave him
a look, half watchful, half wistful, and sometimes
made a remark, to which he gave a brief
reply. His attitude and hers told a story ; but
it was a confused and uncertain one, of which
the end was all darkness. They were together,
but fortuitously, without any will of their own ;
and between them was a gulf fixed. Which
would cross it, or was it possible that it ever
could be crossed at all ? The room was very
silent, for the conversation was not lively
between Constance and Claude on the sofa ;
and Sir Thomas was silent, watching too. All
was so quiet, indeed, that every sound was
audible without ; but there was no expectation
of any interruption, nobody looked for anything,
there was a perfect indifference to outside
sounds. So much so, that for a moment

the ladies were scarcely startled by the familiar
noise, so constantly heard, of Markham's hansom
drawing up at the door. It could not be
Markham ; he was out of the way, disposed
of till next morning. But Lady Markham,
with that presentiment which springs up most
strongly when every avenue by which harm
can come seems stopped, started, then rose to

her feet with alarm. " It can't surely be

Oh, what has brought him here! " she cried, and
looked at Claude, to bid him, with her eyes, rush
to meet him, stop him, keep him from coming
in. But Claude did not understand her eyes.

xAlS for Waring;, seeing: that something had
gone wrong in the programme, but not guessing
what it was, he accepted her movement as a
dismissal, and quietly joined his daughter and
his friend behind the screen. The two men got
behind it altogether, showing only where their
heads passed its line ; but the light was not
bright in that corner, and the new-comer was
full of his own affairs. For it was Markham,
who came in rapidly, stopped by no wise agent,
or suggestion of expediency. He came into the
room dressed in light morning-clothes, greenish.

grayish, yellowish, like the colour of his sandy
hair and complexion. He came in with his face
puckered up and twitching, as it did when he
was excited. His mother, Constance, Claude,
sunk in the corner of the sofa, were all he
saw ; and he took no notice of Claude. He
crossed that little opening amid the fashionably
crowded furniture, and went and placed himself
in front of the fireplace, which was full at this
season of flowers, not of fire. From that point
of vantage he greeted them T\'ith his usual
laugh, but broken and embarrassed. 'well,
mother  well. Con ; you thought you were
clear of me for to-nights"'

I did not expect you, Markham. Is anything
 has anything ? "

Gone \Tong ? " he said. " Xo  I don't
know that anything has gone wrong. That
depends on how you look at it. I've been in
the country all day."

"Yes, Markham; so I know."

But not where I was going," he said. His
laugh broke out again, quite irrelevant and
inappropriate. " I've seen Nelly," he said.

Markham ! " his mother cried, with a tone

of wonder, disapproval, indignation, such as
had never been heard in her voice before,
through all that had been said and understood
concerning Markham and Nelly Winterbourn.
She had sunk into her chair, but now rose
again in distress and anxiety. " Oh," she
cried, " how could you ? how could you ? I
thought you had some true feeling. Markham,
how unworthy of you 7ioiv to vex and
compromise that poor girl ! "

He made no answer for a moment, but
moistened his lips, with a sound that seemed
like a ghost of the habitual chuckle. "Yes,"
he said, " I know you made it all up that
the chapter was closed now ; but I never said
so, mother. Nelly's where she was before,
when we hadn't the courage to do anything.
Only worse : shamed and put in bondage by
that miserable beggar's will. And you all
took it for granted that there was an end
between her and me. I was waiting to marry
her when she was free and rich, you all
thought ; but I wasn't bound, to be sure, nor
the sort of man to think of it twice when I
knew she would be poor."

Markliam ! no one ever said, nobody
tliono'ht "

Oh, I know very well what people thought
and said too, for that matter," said Markham.
I hope a fellow like me knows Society well
enough for that. A jair of old stagers like
Nelly and me, of course we knew what everybody
said. AVell, mammy, you're mistaken this
time, that's all. There's nothing to be taken
for granted in this world. Nelly's game, and
so am I. As soon as it's what you call decent,
and the crape business done with  for she has
always done her duty by him, the wretched
fellow, as everybody knows "

"Markham ! " his mother cried, almost with a
shriek  " why, it is ruin, destruction. I must
speak to Nelly  ruin both to her and you."

He laughed. " Or else the t'other thing 
salvation, you know. Anyhow, Nelly's game
for it, and so am I."

There suddenly glided into the light at this
moment a little figure, white, rapid, noiseless,
and caught Markham's arm in both hers. "
Markham! Markham!" cried Frances, "I
am so glad ! I never believed it ; I always

knew it. I am so glad ! " and began to cry,
clinging to his arm.

Markham's puckered countenance twitched
and puckered more and more. His chuckle
sounded over her half like a sob. " Look
here," he said. " Here's the little one approves.
She's the one to judge, the sort of
still small voice  eh, mother ? Come ; I've
got far better than I deserve : I've got little
Fan on my side."

Lady Markham wrung her hands with an
impatience which partly arose from her own
better instincts. The words which she wanted
would not come to her lips, " The child, what
can she know ! " she cried, and could say no
more.

Stand by me, little Fan," said Markham,
holding his sister close to him. " Mother,
it's not a small thing that could part you and
me ; that is what I feel, nothing else. For the
rest, we'll take the Priory, Nelly and I, and be
very jolly upon nothing. Mother, you didn't
think in your heart that YOUii son was a base
little beo[o;ar, no better than Winterbourn ? "

Lady Markham made no reply. She sank

down in her chair and covered her face saith
her hands. In the climax of so many emotions,
she was overwhelmed. She could not stand up
against Markham : in her husband's presence,
with everything hanging in the balance, she
could say nothing. The worldly wisdom she
had learned melted away from her. Her heart
was stirred to its depths, and the conventional
bonds restrained it no more. A kind of sweet
bitterness  a sense of desertion, yet hope ; of
secret approval, yet opposition  disabled her
altogether. Oue or two convulsive sobs shook
her frame. She was able to say nothing,
nothing, and was silent, covering her face with
her hands.

Waring had seen Markham come in with
angry displeasure. He had listened with that
keen curiosity of antagonism which is almost aswarm
as the interest of love, to hear what he
had to say. Sir Thomas, standing by his side,
threw in a word or two to explain, seeing an
opportunity in this new development of affairs.
But nothing was really altered until Frances
rose. Her father watched her with a poignant
anxiety, wonder, excitement. When she threw

VOL. IIL T

herself upon her brother's arm, and, all
alone in her youth, gave him her approval, the
effect upon the mind of her father was very
strange. He frowned and turned away, then
came back and looked again. His daughter, his
little white spotless child, thrown upon the
shoulder of the young man whom he had believed
he hated, his wife's son, who had been
always in his way. It was intolerable. He
must spring forward, he thought, and pluck her
away. But Markham's stifled cry of emotion
and happiness somehow arrested Waring. He
looked again, and there was something tender,
pathetic, in the group. He began to perceive
dimly how it was. Markham was making a
resolution which, for a man of his kind, was
heroic ; and the little sister, the child, his own
child, of his training, not of the world, had
ozone in her innocence and consecrated it with

o

her approval. The approval of little Frances !
And Markham had the heart to feel that in
that approval there was something beyond and
above everything else that could be said to him.
Waring, too, like his wife, was in a condition of
mind which offered no defence ag-ain't the first

touch of nature which was strong enough to
reach him. He was open not to everyday
reasoning, but to the sudden prick of a keen
habitual feeling. A sudden impulse came
upon him in this softened, excited mood. Had
he paused to think, he would have turned his
back upon that scene and hurried away, to be
out of the contagion. But, fortunately, he did
not pause to think. He went forward quickly,
lang his hand upon the back of the chair in
which Lady Markham sat, struggling for calm
and confronted his old antagonist, his boy-enemy
of former times, who recognised him
suddenly, with a gasp of astonishment. " Markham,"
he said, " if I understand rightly, you
are acting; like a true and honourable man.
Perhaps I have not done you justice, hitherto.
Your mother does not seem able to say anything.
I believe in my little girl's instinct. If it will
do you any good, you have my approval too."

Markham's slackened arm dropped to his
side, though Frances embraced it still. His
very jaw dropped in the amazement, almost
consternation, of this sudden appearance.
Sir," he stammered, " your  your  support

your  friendship would be all I could "

And here his voice failed hire, and he said
no more.

Then Waring went a step further by an unaccountable
impulse, which afterwards he could
not understand. He held out one hand, still
holding with the other the back of Lady Markham's
chair. " I know what the loss will be to
your mother," he said ; '' but perhaps  perhaps,
if she pleases : that may be made up too."

She removed her hands suddenly and looked
up at him. There was not a particle of colour
in her cheek. The hurrying of her heart
parched her open lips. The two men clasped
hands over her, and she saw them through a
mist, for a moment side by side.

At this moment of extreme agitation and
excitement. Lady Markham's butler suddenly
opened the drawing-room door. He came in
with that solemnity of countenance with which,
in his class, it is thought proper to name all
that is preliminary to death. " If you please,
my lady," he said, " there's a man below has
come to say that the fever's come to a crisis,
and that there's a change."

"You mean Captain Gaunt," cried Lady
Markham, rising with a half-stupefied look. She
was so much worn by these divers emotions,
that she did not see where she went.

Captain Gaunt ! " said Constance with a low
cry.

CHAPTER Xlviii.

Lady Markham was a woman, everybody knew,
who never hesitated when she realised a thing
to be her duty, especially in all that concerned
hospitals and the sick. She appeared by George
Gaunt's bedside in the middle of what seemed
to him a terrible, long, endless night. It was
not yet midnight, indeed ; but they do not
reckon by hours in the darkness through which
he was drifting, through which there flashed
upon his eyes confused gleams of scenes that
were like scenes upon a stage all surrounded
by darkness. The change had come. One of
the nurses, the depressed one, thought it was
for death ; the other, possessed by the excitement
of that great struggle, in which sometimes
it appears that one human creature can visibly
help another to hold the last span of soil on

which human foot can stand, stood by the bed,
almost carried away by what to her was like
the frenzy of battle to a soldier, watching to see
where she could strike a blow at the adversary,
or drag the champion a hair's-breadth further
on the side of victory. There appeared to him
at that moment two forms floating in the air 
both white, bright, with the light upon them,
radiant as with some glory of their own to
the gaze of fever. He remembered them afterwards
as if they had floated out of the chamber,
disembodied, two faces, nothing more ; and then
all ao;ain was nio-ht. " He's talked a deal about
his mother, poor gentleman. He'll never live
to see his mother," said the melancholy attendant,
shaking her head. " Hush," said the other
under her breath. "Don't you know we can't
tell what he hears and what he don't hear ? "
Lady Markham was of this opinion too. She
called the doleful woman with her outside the
door, and left the last battle to be fought out.
Frances stood on the other side of the bed. How
she came there, why she was allowed to come,
neither she nor any one knew. She stood looking
at him with an awe in her young soul which

silenced every other feeling. Nelly Winterbourn
had been afraid of death, of seeing or coming
near it. But Frances was not afraid. She stood,
forgetting everything, with her head thrown
back, her eyes expanded, her heart dilating and
swelling in her bosom. She seemed to herself
to be struggling too, gasping with his efforts
for breath, helping him  oh, if she could help
him !  saying her simple prayers involuntarily,
sometimes aloud. Over and over again, in the
confusion and darkness and hurrying of the
last battle, there would come to him a glimpse
of that face. It floated over him, the light
all concentrated in it  then rolling clouds and
gloom.

It was nearly morning when the doctor came.
' Still living ?"" Alive ; but that is all," was
the brief interchange outside the door. He
would have been surprised, had he had anytime
for extraneous emotions, to see on the
other side of the patient's bed, softly winnowing
the air with a large fan, a girl in evening
dress, pearls gleaming upon her white neck,
standing rapt and half-unconscious in the midst
of the unwonted scene. But the doctor had

no time to be surprised. He went through his
examination in that silence which sickens the
very heart of the lookers-on. Then he said,
briefly, " It all depends now on the strength
whether we can pull him through. The fever
is gone ; but he is as weak as water. Keep him
in life twelve hours longer, and he'll do."

Twelve hours !  one whole long lingering
endless summer day. Lady Markham, with her
own affairs at such a crisis, had not hesitated.
She came in now, having got a change of dress,
and sent the weary nurse, who had stood over
him all night, away. Blessed be fashion, when
its fads are for angels' work ! Noiselessly into
the room came with her, clean, fresh, and cool,
everything that could restore. The morning
light came softly in, the air from the open
windows. Freshness and hope were in her face.
She gave her daughter a look, a smile. " He
may be weak, but he has never given in," she
said. Reinforcements upon the field of battle.
In a few hours, which were as a year, the
hopeful nurse was back again refreshed. And
thus the endless day went on. Noon, and still
he lived. Markham walked about the little

street with his pockets full of small moneys,
buying off every costermonger or wandering
street vendor of small wares, boldly interfering
with the liberty of the subject, stopping indignant
cabs, and carts half paralysed with slow
astonishment. It was scarcely necessary, for the
patient's brain was not yet sufficiently clear
to be sensitive to noises ; but it was something
to do for him. A whole cycle of wonder had
gone round, but there was no time to think of
it in the absorbing interest of this. Waring
had employed his wife's son to clear off those
debts, which, if the old General ever knew of
them, would add stings to sorrow  which, if
the young man mended, would be a crushing
weight round his neck. Warns; had done
this without a word or look that inferred that
Markham was to blame. The age of miracles
had come back ; but, as would happen, perhaps,
if that age did come back, no one had time or
thought to give to the prodigies, for the profounder
interest which no wonder could equal,
the fight between death and life  the sudden
revelation, in common life, of all the mysteries
that make humanity what it is  the love which

made a little worldling triumphant over every
base suggestion  the pity that carried a woman
out of herself and her own complicated affairs,
to stand by another woman's son in the last
mortal crisis  the nature which suspended life
in every one of all these differing human
creatures, and half obliterated, in thought of
another, the interests that were their own.
Through the dreadful nio'ht and through the

o o o

endless sunshine of that day, a June day, lavish
of light and pleasure, reluctant to relinquish a
moment of its joy and triumph, the height of
summer days, the old people, the old General
and his wife, the father and mother, travelled
without pause, with few words, with little
hope, daring to say nothing to each other
except faint questions and calculations as to
when they could be there. When they could
be there ! They did not put the other question
to each other, but within themselves,
repeated it without ceasing : Would they be

there before ? Would they be there intime

?  to see him once again. They scarcely
breathed when the cab, blundering along, got
to the entrance of a little street, where it was

"Mamma," said Constance next evening,
when all their excitement and emotions were
softened down, " I hope you told Mrs Gaunt
that I had been there ? "

"My dear, Mrs Gaunt was not thinking of
either you or me. Perhaps she might be conscious
of Frances ; I don't know even that.
When one's child is dying, it does not matter
to one who shows feeling. By-and-by, no
doubt, she will be grateful to us all."

"Not to me  never to me."

Perhaps she has no reason. Con," her
mother said.

'' I am sure I cannot tell you, mamma. If
lie had died, of course  though even that
would not have been my fault. I amused
him very much for six weeks, and then he
thought I behaved very badly to him. But
all the time I felt sure that it would really
do him no harm. I think it was cheap to buy
at that price all your interest and everything
that has been done for him  not to speak of
the experience in life."

Lady Markham shook her head. " Our
experiences in life are sometimes not worth
the price we pay for them ; and to make
another pay "

Oh ! " said Constance with a toss of her
head, shaking off self-reproach and this mild
answer together. " It appears that there is
some post his father wants for him to keep
him at home ; and Claude will move heaven
and earth  that's to say the Horse Guards
and all the other authorities  to get it.
Mamma"' she added after a pause, " Frances
will marry him, if you don't mind."

Marry him ! " cried Lady Markham with a
shriek of alarm ; 'that is what can never be."

Meanwhile, Frances was walking back from
Mrs Gaiint's lodging, where the poor lady, all
tremulous and shaken with joy and weariness,
had been pouring into her sympathetic ears
all the anguish of the waiting, now so happily
over, and weeping over the kindness of everybody
 everybody was so kind. What would
have happened had not everybody been so
kind ? Frances had soothed her into calm,
and coming down-stairs, had met Sir Thomas
at the door with his inquiries. He looked a
little grave, she thought, somewhat preoccupied.
" I am very glad," he said, "to have the
chance of a talk with you, Frances. Are you
going to walk? Then I will see you home."

Frances looked up in his face with simple
pleasure. She tripped along by his side like
a little girl, as she was. They might have
been father and daughter smiling to each
other, a pretty sight as they went upon their
way. But Sir Thomas's smile was grave. " I
want to speak to you on some serious subjects,"
he said.

About mamma ? Oh, don't you think. Sir
Thomas, it is coming all right ? "

"Not about your mother. It is coming all
right, thank God, better than I ever hoped.
This is about myself. Frances, give me your
advice. You have seen a great deal since you
came to town. What with Nelly Winter-bourn
and poor young Gaunt, and all that has
happened in your own family, you have acquired
what Con calls experience in life."

Frances' small countenance grew grave too.
I don't think it can be true life," she said.

He gave a little laugh, in which there was a
tinge of embarrassment. "From your experience,"
he said, " tell me : would you ever
advise, Frances, a marriage between a girl
like you  mind you, a good girl, that would
do her duty, not in Nelly Winterbourn's way
and an elderly, rather worldly man ? "

"Oh no, no, Sir Thomas," cried the girl ; and
then she paused a little, and said to herself that
perhaps she might have hurt Sir Thomas's feelings
by so distinct an expression. She faltered
a little, and added : "It would depend, wouldn't
it, upon who they were ? "

A little, perhaps," he said. " But I am
glad I have had your first unblessed judgment.

Now for particulars. The man is not a bad
old fellow, and would take care of her. He is
rich, and would provide for her  not like that
hound Winterbourn. Oh, you need not make
that gesture, my dear, as if money meant
nothing ; for it means a great deal. And the
girl is as good a little thing as ever was born.
Society has got talking about it ; it has been
spread abroad everywhere ; and perhaps if it
comes to nothing, it may do her harm. Now,
with those further lights, let me have your
deliverance. And remember, it is very serious
not play at all."

"I have not enough lights, Sir Thomas.
Does she," said Frances, with a slight hesitation
 " love him ? And does he love her ? "
*'He is very fond of her; I'll say that for
him," said Sir Thomas hurriedly. " Not perhaps
in the boy-and-girl way. And she  well,
if you put me to it, I think she likes him,
Frances. They are as friendly as possible together.
She would go to him, I believe, with
any of her little difficulties. And he has as

much faith in her  as much faith as in I

can't put a limit to his faith in her," he said.

Frances looked up at him with the grave
judicial look into which she had been forming
her soft face. "All you say, Sir Thomas, looks
like a father and child. I would do that to
papa  or to you."

Here he burst, to her astonishment, into a
great fit of laughter, not without a little tremor,
as of some other feeling in it. " You are a little
Daniel," he said. " That's quite conclusive, my
dear. Oh, wise young judge, how I do honour
thee ! "

But " Frances cried, a little bewildered.

Then she added : "Well, you may laugh at me
if you like. Of course, I am no judge ; but if
the gentleman is so like her father, cannot she
be quite happy in being fond of him, instead

of ? Oh no ! Marrying is quite different 

Cjuite, quite different. I feel sure she would
think so, if you were to ask her, herself," she
said.

And what about the poor old man ? "

You did not say he was a poor old man ;
you said he was elderly, which means "'

"About my age."

"That is not an old man. And worldly 

VOL. III. u

which is not like you. I think, if he is what
you say, that he would like better to keep his
friend; because people can be friends, Sir
Thomas, don't you think, though one is young
and one is old ? "

Certainly, Frances  witness you and me."

She took his arm affectionately of her own
accord and gave it a little kind pressure.
That is just what I was thinking," she said,
with the pleasantness smile in the world.

Sir Thomas took Lady Markham aside in the
evening and repeated this conversation. " I
don't know who can have put such an absurd
rumour about," he said.

Nor I," said Lady Markham ; " but there
are rumours about every one. It is not worth
while taking any notice of them."

But if I had thought Frances would have
liked it, I should never have hesitated a
moment."

She might not what you call like it,"
said Lady Markham, dubiously ; " and yet she
might "

Be talked into it, for her good ? I wonder,"
said Sir Thomas, with spirit, " whether my old

friend, who has always been a model woman in
my eyes, thinks that would be very creditable
to me ? "

Lady Markham gave a little conscious guilty
laugh, and then, oddly enough, which was so
unlike her  twenty-four hours in a sickroom is
trying to any one  began to cry. " You flatter
me with reproaches," she said. " Markham asks
me if I expect my son to be base ; and you ask
me how I can be so base myself, being your
model woman. I am not a model woman ; I
am only a woman of the world, that has been
trying to do my best for my own. And look
there," she said, drying her eyes ; " 1 have succeeded
very well with Con. She will be quite
happy in her way."

And now," said Sir Thomas after a pause,
'' dear friend, who are still my model woman,
how about your own affairs ? "

She blushed celestial rosy red, as if she had
been a girl. " Oh," she said, " I am going
down with Edward to Hilborough to see what
it wants to make it habitable. If it is not too
damp, and we can get it put in order  I am
quite up in the sanitary part of it, you know 

he means to send the Gaunts there with their
son to recruit, when he is well enough. I am
so glad to be able to do something for his old
neighbours. And then we shall have time ourselves,
before the season is over, to settle what
we shall do."

The reader is far too knowing in such matters
not to be able to divine how the marriages followed
each other in the Waring family within
the course of that year. Young Gaunt, when
he got better, confused with his illness, soothed
by the weakness of his convalescence and all the
tender cares about him, came at last to believe
that the debts which had driven him out of his
senses had been nothing but a bad dream. He
consulted Markham about them, detailing his
broken recollections. Markham replied with a
perfectly opaque countenance : " You must have
been dreaming, old man. Nightmares take that
form the same as another. Never heard half a
word from any side about it ; and you know
those fellows, if you owed them sixpence and
didn't pay, would publish it in every club in
London. It has been a bad dream. But look
here," he added ; " don't you ever go in for that

sort of thing again. Your head won't stand it.
I'm going to set you the example," he said, with
his laugh. "Never  if I should live to bea
hundred," Gaunt cried with fervour. The
sensation of this extraordinary escape, which
he could not understand, the relief of having
nothing; to confess to the General, nothing; to
bring tears from his mother's eyes, affected him
like a miraculous interposition of God, which
no doubt it was, though he never knew how.
There was another sion which belong-ed to the
time of his illness, but which was less apocryphal,
as it turned out  the vision of those two
forms through the mist  of one, all white, with
pearls on the milky throat, which had been
somehow accompanied in his mind with a private
comment that at last, false Duessa being
gone for ever, the true Una had come to him.
After a while, in the greenness of Hilborough,
amid the cool shade, he learned to fathom how
that was.

But were we to enter into all the processes
by which Lady Markham changed from the
That can never be ! " of her first light on
the subject, to giving a reluctant consent to

VOL. III. X

Frances' marriage, we slioulcl require another
volume. It may be enough to say that in after-days,
Captain Gaunt  but he was then Colonel
thought Constance a very handsome woman,
yet could not understand how any one in his
senses could consider the wife of Claude Ramsay
worthy of a moment's comparison with his own.
"Handsome, yes, no doubt," he would say;
and so is Nelly Markham, for that matter, 
"but of the earth, earthy, or of the world, worldly
; whereas Frances "

Words failed to express the difference, which
was one with which words had nothing to do.

THE End.

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD Apt) SO>"S.

K

a

V

Mss

:#.
