CHAPTER I.

THE TWO FAMILIES.

The house of Penton is one of the greatest inc

the county of which it is an ornament. It is an

old house, but not of the kind which is now so

generally appreciated and admired. It is not

Elizabethan nor Jacobean, nor of the reign of

Queen Anne. The front is Grecian, or rather

 palladian, in heavy stone supplemented by

plaster, with the balustrades of a stony terrace

surmounting the level frontage of the single

 storey, lofty, yet flat, which stretches like a

screen across the higher cluster of building

 VOL. I. B

which forms the body of the house. When
you turn the corner from this somewhat blank
and low but imposing line you come upon the
garden front, which is of the livelier French
order of architecture, with long windows, and
many of them. The gardens are the pride of
the house. These are arranged in terraces and
parterres, brilliant with flowers, and there is
even an elaborate system of waterworks, a little
out of order now, and a few statues here and
there, half covered with lichens, yet not unworthy
of better preservation. The rooms inside
are lofty and sumptuous, intended for great
entertainments and fine company, but the
gardens are such as Watteau would have delighted
in, and which he might have made the
scene of many a fete champetre and graceful
group of fine ladies and fine gentlemen in costumes
more brilliant than are now thought of.
The grounds at Penton, indeed, are still filled at
times with parties of gaily-dressed people, and
the lawns brightened by maidens in muslin and
young men in flannels ; but Watteau would have
had no sympathy with the activities of lawn-tennis.

That popular game, however, was not
pursued with any enthusiasm at Penton. It
was permitted rather than encouraged.

There was no youth in the house. Sir Walter
Penton was an old man, and though he had,
like most old gentlemen who figure in romance,
an only daughter, she was not either young or
fair. She was a lady of somewhat stern aspect,
between forty and fifty, married, but childless.
The household consisted of her father, her
husbands and herself, no more. And there were
many circumstances which combined to make it
anything but a cheerful house.

Three or four miles from Penton, but on a
lower level, lay the house of Penton Hook. It
was on the banks of the river, planted on a piece
of land which was almost an island in consequence
of the curve of the stream which swept
round it. The great house stood high on the
brow of the bank, an object seen many miles
off, and which was the distinguishing feature of
the landscape. The smaller one  so small that it
was scarcely worthy to be called a country place at
all  lay low. When the river was in flood, which

b2

happened almost every winter, Penton Hook stood
dismally, with all its little gardens under water,
in what seemed the middle of the stream. And
though the Pentons all protested that the water
never actually came into the house, which was
raised on a little terrace, their protest was received
by all their neighbours with shaking of
their heads. Everything was green and
luxuriant, as may be supposed. The house was
so covered with creepers that its style was undefinable.
A little glimmer of old red brick,
delightfully toned and mellowed, looked out
here and there from amid the clusters of feathery
seedpods on the clematis, and below the branches
of the gloire de Dijon in winter. In the brighter
part of the year it was a mass of leaf and
flower : but during all the dark season, when
the water was up, when the skies were dark,
damp and dreariness were the characteristics of
Penton Hook. The rooms looked damp, there
was a moist look about the tiles in the little
hall. The paper was apt to peel off and the
plaster to fall. There were many people who
declared that the house was a very fever-trap,

and everybody was of opinion that it must be
unhealthy. It ought to have been so indeed,
by every rule of sanitary science. A kind Providence
alone took care of the drainage. Mr.
Penton did not know much about it, and took
care not to inquire: for had he inquired it would
probably have been necessary to do something,
and he had no money to spend on such vanities.
Neither, indeed, did there seem much occasion,
for, notwithstanding what everybody said, eight
young Pentons, tall and straight, and ailing nothing,
with appetites which were the despair of
their mother, grew up and flourished among the
mud and damp, and set all prognostications at
defiance.

Nothing could be more unlike than the two
families who bore the same name, and lived
within sight of each other. The one all gravity
and importance and severe splendour ; the other
poor, irregular, noisy, full of shifts and devices,
full of tumult and young life. Mrs. Penton, Sir
Walter's daughter (for her husband, who was
nobody in particular, had taken her name), went
from time to time with the housekeeper through

the ranges of vacant rooms, all furnished with a
sort of sombre magnificence, to see that they
were aired and kept in order ; while her namesake
at the Hook (as it was called) schemed
how to fit a bed into a new corner, as the boys
and girls gi-ew bigger, to make room for their
lengthening limbs and the decorums which
advancing years demanded. It was difficult to
kill time in the one house, and almost impossible
to find one day long enough for all the work
that had to be done in it, in the other. In the
one the question of ways and means was a
subject unnecessary to be discussed. The exchequer
was full, there were no calls upon it
which could not be amply met at any moment,
nor any occasion to think whether or not a new
expense should be incurred. Mr. Russell Penton,
perhaps, the husband of Mrs. Penton, had not
always been in this happy condition. It was
possible that in his experience a less comfortable
state of affairs might have existed, or even
might still, by moments, exist ; but, so far as
the knowledge of Sir Walter and his daughter
went, it was only mismanagement, extravagance.

or want of financial capacity which made anybody
poor; they could not understand why
their relations at the Hook should be needy and
embarrassed.

'So long as one knows exactly what one's
means are,' said Mrs. Penton, *what difficulty
can there be in arranging one's expenditure ?
There are certain things which can, and certain
things which can't be done on a certain income.
All that is necessary is to arrange one's outgoings
accordingly

You see that, my dear,' Sir Walter would
reply, 'for you were born with the spirit of
order : but there are some people who have no
sense of order at all.'

The 'some people Mere the poor people of
Penton Hook. These remarks were made on a
day in winter, when the family at the great
house were together in the library. It was a
very comfortable room, nay, a beautiful one.
The house was warmed throughout, and in
December was genially, softly, warm as in May,
no cold to be got anywhere in corridors or
staircases. The fire in the library was a wood

fire, for beauty and pleasantness rather than for
warmth. The walls were lined with books, dim.
lines of carved shelves with gleams of old gilding,
and an occasional warm tone of mellowed
Italian vellum here and there giving them a
delightful covering. The large windows looked
across the country, commanding the whole
broad plain through which the river ran. This
landscape fell away into lovely tones of distance,
making you uncertain whether it was the sea
or infinitude itself at which you were gazing, in
far-away stretches of tender mist, and blueness,
and dimness,' lightly marked with the line of the
horizon. Over the mantel-piece there was one
picture, the [portrait [of an ancestor of whom
the Pentons were proud  a veritable Holbein,
which was as good, nay, far better, than the
most finely emblazoned family pedigree. There
was no room for other pictures because of the
books which filled every corner : but a portfolio
stood open upon a stand in which there was a
quantity of the finest old engravings, chiefly
historical portraits.

Amid this refined and delightful luxury it

would be most foolish to mention the mere
furniture, though that was carved oak, and
very fine of its kind. Sir Walter himself
sat surrounded by all the morning papers,
which, as Penton was not very far from town,
were delivered almost as early as in London.
Mrs. Penton had a little settlement of her own
between the fire and one of the windows, where
she made up her household accounts, which she
did with the greatest regularity. Mr. Russell
Penton was the only member of the little party
who seemed at all out of place. He had no
special corner which he made his own. He was
a restless personage, prone to wander from the
fire to the window, to look out though there was
nothing particular to look at, nothing more than
he saw every day of his life, as his wife sometimes
said to him. He ran over the papers very
quickly, very often standing before the fire,
which was a favourite trick of his ; and after he
had got through that morning duty he would
lounge about disturbing everybody  that is,
disturbing Mrs. Penton and Sir Walter, who
were the only people subject to be affected by

his vagaries. He never had letters to write,
though this is one of the first duties of man, of
the kind of man Who has nothing else to do. A
man who has no letters to write should at least
pretend to do so, assuming a virtue if he has it
not, in the leisure of a country house ; or he
should have some study, if it were only the
amount of the rainfall ; or he should draw and
expound art. But none of all these things did
Mr. Russell Penton do. And he had not the
art of doing nothing quietly and gracefully as
some men have. He was restless as well as
idle, a combination which is more trying to the
peace of your housemates than any other can
be.

Sir Walter was essentially well bred, and the
carpets were very thick, and the panelling of
the floors very solid ; but yet there is always a
certain thrill under a restless foot, however
steady the flooring is, and however thick the
carpet; and Mrs. Penton could not help seeing
that her father now and then stopped in his reading
and fixed his eyes and contracted his eyebrows
with a consciousness of unnecessary movement.

But after all it is difficult to find fault with one's
husband for nothing more serious than walking
from the fire to the window and from the window
back to the fire.

Yet it was this rather detrimental and unmeaning
personage who chose suddenly, without
any reason at all, to cross the current of family
feeling.

The spirit of order is a very good thing,' he
said, all at once, making his wife hold her
breath, ' but, in my opinion, when you have a
large family a little money is still better.' This
speech was launched into the domestic quiet Kean
arrow from a bow.

'Better I' said Sir Walter, letting his newspaper
drop upon his knees, and pushing up his
spectacles upon his forehead the better to seethe
speaker, who was standing, shutting out the
pleasant blaze of the log on the fire in his usual
careless way.

Gerald means,' said his wife, ' that it is
easier to keep things in order when there is
money. I have heard people say so before, and
perhaps it is true  to a certain extent. You

know, sir, that when oue has money in hand one
loan buy a thing when it is cheap ; one can lay in
one's provisions beforehand. The idea is not
original, but there is a certain amount of truth in
it, I daresay.'

* No one supposed there was not truth in it,'
said Sir Walter ; ' for that matter there is truth
in everything, the most paradoxical statement
you may choose to make ; but these people are
not without money, I suppose. They have an
income, whatever the amount may be. They
are not destitute. And so long as you have certain
means, as you were yourself saying, Alicia,
you know what you can afford to spend, and
that is what you ought to spend by every law,
and not a penny more.'

Nothing could be more true,' said Mrs. Pen-ton,
with a look from under her eyelids to her
husband, who was fidgeting from one leg to
another, restless as usual ; * and speaking of
that,' she said, with curious appropriateness,
I have been anxious to ask you, papa, about
the tapestry chamber, of which, you know, we
have always been so proud. Mrs. Ellis and I

have made a very unpleasant discovery  the
moth has got into one of the best pieces. We have
done all we could, and I think we have arrested
the mischief, but to put it right is beyond our
powers.'

Dear me ! the tapestry I' cried Sir Walter ;
that's serious indeed  the moth ! I should
think you might have done something, you
and all your women, alicia, to keep out a
moth.'

One would think so, indeed,' she said, with a
smile, ' but it is not so easy as it seems. It is
an insidious little creature, which gets in imperceptibly.
One only discovers it when the
mischief is done. Gerald, who is so very clever
in such matters, thinks we had better get a man
over from Paris, from the Gobelins. It would
be a good deal of trouble, but still it is the best
way.'

1 was not aware that Gerald knew anything
about such matters said Sir Walter. ' As for
the trouble, it is only writing a letter, I suppose.
But do it, do it. I cannot have anything happen
to my tapestry. A man from Paris wall be a

nuisance  they're always a nuisance, those sort
of fellows  but get it done, get it done.'

I will write at once,' Mrs. Penton said.

I remember that tapestry as long as I remember
anything,' said the old gentleman, musing.
In the firelight we used to think the figures
moved. It used to be in my mother's room.
How frightened I was, to be sure I One night
I recollect the hunters and the hounds seemed
all coming down upon us. There was a blazing
fire, and it was the dancing of the flames, don't
you know? I was no bigger than that,' he
said, putting his hand about a foot from the
ground. The recollection of his infancy pleased
the old man. He smiled, and the expression of
his face softened. There was nothing cruel or
unkind in his aspect. He was a little rigid, a
little severe, very sure that he was right, as so
many are ; but when he thought of his mother's
room, and himself a little child in it, his ruddy
aged countenance grew soft. Had there been
another little child there, to climb upon his knee,
it would have melted altogether. But Providence
had not granted that other little child.

He gave a wave of his hand as he dismissed
these gentle thoughts. ' But get the man from
Paris, mv dear ; don't let anything go wrong
with the tapestry,' he said.

Mr. Russell Penton went out as his wife
turned to her writing-table, and at once began
her necessary letter. It was true that it was he
who recommended that a man from Paris should
be procured, but he had done it without any of
that cleverness in such matters which his wife
attributed to him. He was not, perhaps, a man
entirely adapted for the position in which he
found himself. He had occupied it for a longtime,
and yet he had not reconciled himself to
that constant effort on his wife's part to make
him agreeable to her father.

For his own part he had no desire to be disagreeable
to Sir Walter or any man; he had
married with a generous affection if not any
hot romantic love for Alicia : for they were both,
he thought, beyond the age of romantic love.
She had been thirty-five, very mature, very
certain of herself ; while he, though little older
and a man who had, as people say, knocked

about the world for a long time, and undergone
many vicissitudes, was not at all so sure. She
had picked him up ont of  not the depths, perhaps
 but out of an uncomfortable, unsettled,
floating condition, between gentility and beggary
; and had taken him into the warmest
delightful house, and made everything comfortable
for him. He had been very willing to
make himself agreeable, to do what he could
for the people who had done so much for him,
and yet so unreasonable was he that he had
never been able quite to reconcile himself to the
position. He could scarcely endure those warning
glances not to go too far, not to say this or
that, or her pretences of consulting him, of
being guided by his counsels, the little speeches,
such as had been made to-day, about Gerald
being so clever  which was his wife's way of
upholding her husband. He was not clever,
and he did not wish to pretend to be so. He
was not cautious, and he could not take the
credit of it. He had been thought to be a 
when he married, and he was supposed
to be a time-server now ; and yet he was

neither one thing nor the other. He was fond
of Ahcia and he liked Sir Walter well enough ;
yet there were moments when he would rather
have swept a crossing than Hve iu wealth and
luxury at Penton, and when the sacrifices which
he had to make, and the advantages which he
gained in return, were odious to him, things
which he could hardly bid himself to bear.

This was perhaps the reason why, as he went
out, without anything to do or to think of, and
looking across that wide, bare, yet bright wintry
landscape, losing itself in the wistful distance,
caught the chimneys of Penton Hook appearing
among the bare trees, there occurred to his
mind a contrast and comparison which made
his sensations still less agreeable. It was nobody's
fault, certainly not his, not even Sir
Walter's, that the Pentons at the Hook were so
poor, that there were eight children of them,
that it was so difficult for the parents to make
both ends meet. Could Sir Walter have changed
the decrees of Providence by any effort in his
power, it was he who should have had those
eight sturdy descendants. He would have ac-vol.

I. C

accepted all the responsibilities gladly ; he would
have secured for those young people the best
of everything, an excellent education, and all
the advantages that wealth could give. But the
children had gone Adhere poverty not riches was;
and to Sir Walter and Alicia it was a wonder
that their parents could not keep within their
income, that they could not cut their coat
according to their cloth, as it is the duty of all
honest and honourable persons to do.

Alicia in particular was very clear on this
point ; and then she had turned to her table, and
written her letter, and ordered the man to be
sent from Paris from the great Gobelins
manufactory to mend the damages made by
the moths in the old tapestry ! How strange it
was! Russell Penton could not tell what was
wrong in it. Perhaps there was no conscious
wrong. They had a right to have their tapestry
mended, and it was pretty, he could not but
confess, to see the old man forget himself and
talk of the time when he was a child. What
was that about, a treasure, which rust or moth
could not corrupt ? It kept haunting his ear.

yet it was not applicable to the situation. It
would be a thousand pities to let the tapestry
be spoiled. And as for taking upon his shoulders
the burden of Mr. Peuton's large family, no one
could expect old Sir Walter to do that. What
was wrong in it ?

But, on the other hand, he could not find it in
his heart to blame the poor people at the Hook
who had so many cares, so much to do with their
income, so many mouths to feed. It was not
their fault, nor was it the fault of Alicia and her
father. And yet the heart of the man, who was
little more than a looker-on, was sore. He could
do nothing. He could not even find any
satisfaction in blaming one or the other : for,
so far as he could see, nobody was to blame.

CHAPTER II.

Pennon.

The family at Penton bad not always been so
few in number. Twenty years before the opening
of this history there were two sons in the
great house ; and Alicia, now so important, was
though always a sort of princess royal, by no
means so great a personage as now. She was
the only daughter of the house, but no more ;
destined apparently, like other daughters, to pass
away into a different family and identify herself
with another name. The two brothers were the
representatives of the Pentons. They were hopeful
enough in their youth  healthy, vigorous,
not more foolish than other young men of their

age, with plenty of money and nothing to do :
and it was a surprise to everybody when, one
after the other, they took the wrong turn in that
flowery way of temptation, so smooth to begin
with, so thorny at the end, which is vulgarly
termed ' life.'

No such fatal divergence was expected of
them when Walter came of age, and all the
neighbourhood was called together to rejoice.
They were both younger than their sister,
who was already the mistress of the house and
a very dignified and stately young lady, at
this joyful period. Their mother had died
young, and Sir "Walter was older than the father
of such a family generally is. He had, perhaps,
not sufficient sympathy yith. the exuberance of
their spirits. Perhaps the quiet which beloved,
the gravity of his house, repelled them, and led
them to form their friendships and seek their
pleasures elsewhere. At all events, the young
Pentons  went wrong,' both of them, one after
the other.

Edward Penton, of the Hook, a young
relation of no importance whatever, was much

about the house in those days. He was the
son of Sh' AValter's cousin, who had inherited
the house at Penton Hook from some old aunts,
maiden sisters of a far-back baronet, so that the
relationship was not very close. But the bonds
of kindred are very elastic, and count for much
or for nothing, as inclination and opportunity
dictate. Edward was much more about the
house of Penton than was at all for his good.
He fell in love with Alicia for one thing, who
naturally would have nothing to say to her
poor relation ; and, what was still worse, he was
swept away by Walter and Reginald in the
course of their dissipated career into many extravagances
and follies.

They drew him aside in their train from all
the sober studies which ought to have ended ina
profession ; they taught him careless ways, and
the recklessness which may be pardonable ina
rich man's son, but is crime in the poor. It is
true that there was something in him  some
gleam of higher principle or character, or perhaps
only the passive resistance of a calmer
nature  which held him back from following

them to the bitter end of their foolish career ;
but all the same they did him harm  harm
which he never got the better of, though it
stopped short of misery and ruin. They themselves
did not stop short of anything.

There are some sins like those which made
the heart of the Psalmist burn within him  sins
which seem to go unpunished, and in the midst
of which the wicked appear to flourish like
a green bay-tree. And there are some which
can their own sentence with them, and in
which the vengeance does not any. Even in
the latter case, ruin comes more slowly to the
rich than to the poor. They have more places
of repentance, more time to think, more possibility,
if a better impulse comes to them, of redeeming
the past ; but yet, in the end, few escape
who embark their hopes and prosperity on such
a wild career.

There were ten years in the history of the
Penton household of which the sufferings and
the misery could not be told. Sir Walter and
his daughter lived on in their beautiful house
and watched the headlong career towards

destruction of these two beloved boys (still
called so long after they had become men) with
anxiety and anguish and despair which is not
to be told. There are few families who do not
know something of that anguish. Of all the
miseries to which men and women are liable
there is none so terrible. In every other there
is some alleviation, some gleam of comfort, butin
this none. The father grew old in the progress
of these terrible years, and the proud Miss
Penton, the handsome, stately young woman,
who looked, the neighbours said, ' as if all the
world belonged to her,' grew old too, before
her time, and changed and paled, and turned to
stone. Not that her heart was turned to
stone  on the contrary, it was a fountain of
tears; it was a well of tenderness unfailing; it
was the heart of a mother, concentrated upon
those objects of her love for whom she could do
nothing, who were perishing before her eyes.
The Pentons were proud people, and they kept
up appearances; they entertained more or less,
whatever happened. They had parties of
visitors in their house ; they kept up the old-fashioned

hospitality, aucT all that their position
exacted, and never betrayed to the world the
agonised watch they were keeping, as from a
watch-tower, upon the proceedings of the young
men who would have none of their counsel,
and who returned more and more rarely, and
then only when help, or nursing, or succour of
some sort was wanted, to their home. Latterly,
under the excuse of Sir Walter's health, there
was a certain withdrawal from the world, and
the father and daughter accomplished their
miserable vigil with less intrusion of a watchful
neighbourhood.

First Reginald and then Walter came home
to die. Death is kind : it sheds a light upon
the wasted face even when it is sin that has
wasted it, and wrings the heart of the watchers
with looks purified by pain, that remind them
how the sinner was once an innocent child.
Through all this the father and daughter went
together, leaning upon each other, yet even
to each other saying but little. They were as
one in their anguish, in their lingering hopes,
in the long vigils by these sick-beds, in the unutterable

pangs of seeing one after another die.
Ten years is a long time when it is thus told
out in misery and pain. Alicia Penton was a
woman of thirty-five when she walked behind
the coffin of her last brother to the family
burying-ground. She was chief mourner, as
she had been chief nurse and chief sufferer all
through, for Sir Walter had broken down altogether
at the deathbed of his last boy.

This double tragedy passed over with little
revelation to the outside world. Everybody,
indeed, knew what lives the young men had
lived, and how they had died. And people
pitied the father to whom it must be, they felt,
so great a disappointment that his baronetcy
and his old lands should go out of the family,
and that in the direct line he should have no
heir. If only one of them had married, if there
had been but a child to carry on the family, the
kind neighbours said. It was thought that Sir
Walter was far more proud than tender, and
that this would be his view. As for Miss
Penton, it was believed that she must find great
consolation in the fact that her position and her

impoi-tance would be so much in creased. A
few years' quiet (such as was inevitable in their
deep mourning) would make up for all the
sacrifices Sir Walter had made for the boss;
and then Alicia would be a great heiress, notwithstanding
that a considerable portion of the
estate was entailed. People thought that, when
she realised this, Alicia Penton would dry her
tears.

She had not in any case made very much
show of her tears. Her father and she went on
living in the great, silent house, where now
there was not even an echo to be listened for, a
piece of evil news to be apprehended; where
all Alas silent, silent as the grave. She had
been courted as much as most women in her
younger days ; she had been loved, but she had
listened to no one. Her youth had glided away
inter the shadow of calamity, the shadow which
had stolen away all beauty and freshness from
her and made her old before her time, and, lest
they should express too much, bad turned her
features to stone. She had always been stately,
but she was stern now that all was over,

and there was neither terror for the future nor
sound of the present to keep her tortured heart
ave.

But naturally, after a while, these intense
emotions, which no one suspected, were calmed,
and life began again. Life began even for Sir
Walter, who was nearly seventy, much more for
this daughter, who was thirty-five. They could
not die, nor could they darken their windows
and shut out the sunshine for ever because two
poor wrecks, two dismal, ruined lives, had come
to an end.

It must be such a relief, people said,
even though no doubt it was a grief in its
way. And though the ending of anxiety in
such a way seems almost an additional pang, an
additional loss to obstinate love, yet after all it
is a dismal relief in its blank and stillness. And
life had to be carried on. When Miss Penton,
Sir Walter's only child and heiress, came out of
her long seclusion there were still men to be
found who admired, or said they admired her,
and who were very eager to place themselves
at her disposal. Amongst these was Gerald

Russell, a man who had once been kind to one
of * the boys,' and who was known as the most
good-named, the least exacting of men. He
was poor ; he had no particular standing of his
own to confuse the family arrangements ; and
the two liked each other. Truly and honestly
they liked each other ; he had been almost a
suitor of her youth, kept back only, both of
them were willing to believe, by his poverty.
Gerald was not unaware that there would be
sacrifices to make, that he was accepting a position,
not without drawbacks, in which, indeed,
there might possibly be a good deal to bear. But
he had not made much of his life hitherto, and
he made up his mind to nsk it. And they
married, and he was not unhappy.

This was the present position of affairs.
He was not unhappy, and she was more
nearly happy that she could have been had
he not been there. Had ' anything happened,'
as the phrase goes, to him  that is, had
he died  the world would have become blank
to Alicia. Had she been the victim, Mr. Russell
Penton would have been truly grieved, and

would have mourned honestly for his wife, but
the sense of freedom might perhaps have been
something of a compensation to him. Thus
they were not equal any more than two human
creatures ever are equal. She seemed to have
the best of it upon the surface of affairs. She
was the head of the house. Both without and
within she was the pivot upon which everything
turned, and he was by no means of equal importance
; but yet he would have been to her a
greater loss than she to him, which perhaps
made the balance equal once more.

He returned to that question about the
tapestry when they set out, as was their custom
in the afternoon, to take a walk together. They
went through the wood which covered the crest
of the high river-bank upon which Penton stood
and which defended the house from the north.
Everything, it is needless to say, was beautifully
kept, the woodland paths just wild enough to
preserve an aspect of nature amid the perfection
of foregoing and landscape gardening on the
largest scale. Wherever there was a point of
view the openings were skilfully arranged so as

to get its finest aspect, and the broad valley, or
rather plain, stretched out below with village
spires and scattered clusters of houses, and a red
roofed town in the distance, with a light veil of
smoke hanging between it and the sky. The
river flowed full and strong in its winter volume
at their feet, reflecting the grey blueness of the
heavens, the deeper colours that began to blaze
about the west, and the grey whiteness of the
vapours overhead. It was when they had
tui-ned, after a momentary pause at one of these
mounts of vision, that Russell Penton turned
suddenly to his wife with a smile.

'Did you send for the man from the Gobelins?
he asked.

Yes. But what put that into your mind now V

Nothing ; the chimneys at Penton Hook,' he
replied.

x\nd why the chimneys at Penton Hook ?
Your mind jumps from one subject to the other
in the strangest way. What connection can
there be between two things so unlike V

Nothing,' he said, with a faint smile ; ' and
yet perhaps more than meets the eye. There is

no great volume of smoke arising from those
chimneys. A faint blue streak or so and that is
all. It does not look as if there was a fire in
every room or a jolly blaze in the kitchen.'

AVhat are you aiming at, Gerald ? I think
you mean mischief. No ; probably they have
not fires in all the rooms ; but what has that todo
with us or with the man from Paris ? I don't
follow you,' she said.

My dear Alicia, what does it matter ? My
ways of thinking are jerky, you are aware. If
you had as many children as poor Mrs. Penton,
you would have fires in all the rooms.'

Ah ! if  ' she said, with a sigh ; then, in a
tone of impatience, ' Poor Mrs. Penton, as you
call her, and T  would probably not in any circumstances
act in the same way.'

No, because you are rich Mrs. Penton, my
dear. I think you were a little hard upon them,
upon the duty of keeping within their income,
and all that. I daresay the children have blue
little hands and cold noses. If they were mine
they should have fires in their rooms whatever
my income might be.'

They would have nothing of the sort  that
i8, if I were your wife, Gerald,' said Mrs. Pen-ton,
with composure. She made a little pause,
and then added, with a momentarily quickened
breath, 'Perhaps under these circumstances I
might not have been so.'

He felt the blow; it was a just one, if not
perhaps very generous. And if he had been a
man of hot temper, or of very sensitive feelings,
it would have wounded him. But he was pacific
and middle-aged, and knew the absolute inutility
of any quarrel. So he answered quietly,

As I cannot conceive myself with any other
wife in any circumstances, that is not a possibility
we need considers

Mrs. Penton's mind went quickly, though her
aspect was rigid. She had begged his pardon
before these words were half said, with a quick
rising colour, which showed her shame of the
suggestion she had made.

I was strong to say it ; yet not wrong in
what 1 said. If you had been a poor man,
Gerald, your wife would have known how to cut
her coat according to her cloth.'

VOL. I. D

You mean if she had not been a rich woman.
It is ill judging, they say in Scotland, between
a full man and a fasting. I have a proverb,
you see, as well as you. You were quite right,
my dear, to send for that man from the Goblins ;
but I would say nothing about my poor neighbours
and the coat that is not cut according to
the cloth.'

If you think I am wrong, you should say so
plainly, Gerald.' The colour still wavered a
little upon her cheek. She was perhaps not so
patient even of implied blame as she thought
she was. *It is perhaps wrong,' she added,
quickly, ' but I should not wonder if I shared
without knowing it my father's feeling about the
heir. Oh, you need not say anything ; I know
it is unreasonable. It is not Edward Penton's
fault that he is the next in the entail. But
human creatures are not always reasonable, and
they say no man likes to be haunted with the
sight of his heir.'

Poor heir !' said Russell Penton, very softly,
almost under his breath.

*Poor heir? I should say poor possessor,

poor old man, who must see his home go into
the hands of a stranger I'

They had come to another point where their
accustomed feet paused, where the bare winter
boughs, with all their naked tracery, framed ina
wide opening of sky and cloud and plain, and
where once more those clustered chimneys of
Penton Hook, with their thin curls of smoke,
seemed to thrust themselves into the front of the
landscape. The house lay almost at the gazers'
feet, framed in with a cluster of trees, encircled
with a glowing sweep of the stream, which
looked like a ribbon of Hght full of shimmering
colour, round the brown settlement of the half-seen
building and wintry branches. Mrs. Penton
clasped her hands together with a sudden quick
suppressed movement of strong feeling, and
turned hastily away.

D 2

CHAPTER III.

Pennon HOOK.

soon after the day on which this discussion
was carried on among the woods of Penton
over their heads, the family at Penton Hook
held a sort of committee of ways and means
in their damp domain below. The winter afternoon
was clear and bright, and the river ran in
deceitful brightness round the half-circle of the
little promontory. It was not of itself at all a
disagreeable house. If it had not been that the
mud and wetness of the garden paths, where
the water seemed to well up even through the
gravel, made every footstep mark the too bright
blue and brown tiles in the hall, and gave ita

sloppy and disorderly look, the entrance itself
might have been pretty enough ; but no
attempt had been made to furnish or utilise it,
and there were tracks of glistening steps
across it in different directions to the different
doors, all of which opened out of the hall. And
the drawing-room was a well-sized, well-shaped
room, with three or four windows ; a room of
which, with a little money and taste, something
very pretty might have been made. But the windows
were turned to the north, and the furniture
was bare and worn ; the walls and the carpets
and curtains had alike faded into a colour which
can only be described as being the colour of
poverty. The pattern was worn and trodden out
upon the carpet; it was blurred and dull upon the
walls ; everything was of a brownish, greenish,
greyish, indescribable hue. The pictures on the
walls seemed to have grown grey too, being
chiefly prints, which ran into the tone of the
whole.

The table at which Mrs. Penton (poor Mrs.
Pent on) sat with her work was covered with a
woollen cover, the ground of which had been

red with a yellow pattern ; but it (perhaps
mercifully) had faded too. And, as for the lady,
she was faded like everything else. Her dress,
like the room, had sunk into the colour of
poverty. There was nothing about her that
was above the level of matter-of-fact dulness.
She was darning stockings, and they were also
indefinite in hue. Her hair, which had been
yellow or very light brown, bad lost its gloss
and sheen. It was knotted behind in a loose
knot, and might have been classical and graceful
had it not suggested that this was the easiest
way possible to dispose of those abundant locks.
Her head was stooped over her work; her
basket on the table was overflowing. She
paused now and then and looked up to make
an observation when it was her turn, but not
even for the sake of the family consultation
could she intermit her necessary work. Nine
pairs of stockings, not to speak of her own, area
great deal for a woman to keep in order. Her
own were not much worn, for she walked very
little. She was one of those women who are
indolent by nature, yet always busy. Once

seated at her work, stocking after stocking
went through her hands, and holes as big as a
half-moon got deftly, swiftly, silently filled up ;
but it cost her an effort to rise from her seat to
go about her domestic business. She was indolent
in movement, though so industrious; apiece
of still life, though her hands were never idle.
This was the kind of woman to whom, in his
maturer judgment, the man who had once been
Alicia Penton's adorer had turned.

He was not far from her, seated in an elbow-chair,
not an easy-chair, but an old-fashioned
mahogany article with arms, upon which he reposed
his elbows. His hands were clasped in
front of him, and now and then, when he forgot
himself, he twirled his thumbs. He bore a family
likeness to Su* Walter Penton, having a high nose
and long face ; but he was not the same kind of
man. Old Sir Walter at nearly eighty was firm
and erect still, but Edward Penton was limp.
He was prone to tumble down upon himself, so
to speak, like a crumbling wall ; to go sinking,
telescopic into himself like a slippery mass of
sand or clay. There was an anxious look in

his countenance, contradicting the pretensions
of that prominent feature, the nose, which looked
aristocratic, his family thought, and did its best
to look strong. It was the mouth that did it,
some people thought, a mouth which was manifestly
weak, with all kinds of uncompleted
piteous, curves about it, and dubious wavering
lines. His lower Hp would move vaguely from
time to time, as though he were repeating something.
He was dressed in knickerbockers and
gaiters and a rough [coat, as if he had a great
deal to do out of doors. He might have been a
gentleman farmer, or a squire with an estate to
look after, or even a gamekeeper of a superior
kind ; but he was nothing of all these. He was
only a man who lived in the country, and had
nothing to do, and had to walk about, as it were,
for daily bread.

On the corner of the table, not far from Mrs.
Penton, sat, with his legs swinging loosely, a
younger, a quite young man ; indeed, poor Wat
did not know that he was a man at all, or realise
what he was coming to. He was the eldest
son. That did not seem to say very much, considering

the character of the house, and the
manner of life pursued in it, but it sounded a
great deal to them, for young Walter was the
heir in tail male. He was the representative of
all the Pentons, the future head of the family.
He thought a great deal of his position, and so
did the rest. In time Penton would be his,
the stately old house, and the title would be his
which his ancestors had borne. The young man
felt himself marked out from his kind by this
inheritance. He Alas humble enough at present,
but he had only to go on living, to wait and
keep quiet, and he must be Sir Walter Penton of
Penton in the end. He felt a greater confidence
in this than his father did who came before him.
Mr. Penton did not look forward to the baronetcy
for his part with much enthusiasm. It did not
rouse him from his habitual depression : perhaps
because care was so close and so constant, perhaps
because he had come to an age which expects
but little from any change. He did not feel
that to become Sir Edward would do much for
him : but even he felt that for Wat it was a
great thing.

The other two people in the room were the
two girls ; that was all that anybody ever said
of them. They were scarcely even distinguished
by name the one from the other ; you could
scarcely say they were individuals at all ; they
were the two girls. The children were apt to
run their two names into one, and call them indiscriminately
 Ally-Anne. Whether it was Ally
or whether it was Anne Who came first did not
matter, it was a generic title which belonged to
both. And yet they were not like each other.
Ally had been called Alicia, after her relation at
Penton, who was also her godmother, bat at
Penton Hook life was too full for so many
syllables. They never got further than Alice in
the most formal moments, and Ally was the
name for common wear. Anne bore her
mother's name, but Mrs. Penton was Annie,
whereas the girl preferred the one tiny syllable
which expressed her better ; for Anne, though
she was the youngest, had more fibre in her
than all the rest put together ; but description
is vain in face of such a little person. Her
sister, though the eldest, was the shadow and

she the substance, and no doubt it Twas one of
the subtle but unconscious discriminations of
character which the most simple make unawares
which led the little ones to call whichever
individual of this pair appeared by the joint
name.

1 shall always say, Edward, that you ought
to have your share now,' said Mrs. Penton, in a
soft even voice, never lifting her eyes from her
work, but going on steadily like a purling stream ;
you have more to do vdth it than Mr. Russell
Pentou, who can never succeed to anything ;
you ought to have your allowance like any
other heir.'

I don't know why I should have an allowance,'
said Mr. Penton, with a voice in which
there was a certain languid irritation ; ' I have
always held my own, and I shall always hold
my own. And besides, Sir Walter does not
want me to have the land ; he would rather a
gi-eat deal that it went to  Russell Penton,
as you call him, though he has no night to our
name.'

But that can't be,' cried young AVat, ' seeing

that I  I mean you, father, are the heir of
entail.'

It might be,' said Mr. Penton, going on with
his tone of subdued annoyance, ' if the law was
changed ; and one never knows in these revolutionary
times how soon the law might be
changed. It has been threatened to be done
as long as I can remember. Primogeniture and
the law of entail have been in every agitator's
mouth ; they think it would be a boon to the
working man.'

How could it be a boon to the working man ?
What have we got to do with the working man ?
What does it matter to him who has the property
? it could not come to him anyhow,' cried
AVat, with great energy, colouring high, and
swinging his legs more than ever in the vehemence
of personal feeling. It is all very well to
talk of political principles, but when the question
involves one's self and one's own position in the
world, the argument is very much more urgent
and moving. Young Walter was rather a
revolutionary in his own way ; he was of the
class of generous aristocrats who take a great

interest in the Working man : but there is
reason in all things, and he did not see vhat
this personage had to do vith his affairs.

Oh, I don't know, there is no telling : they
might be made to think it would do them good
somehow. It has always been a favourite
thing to say. At all events, you know,' Mr.
Penton continued, with his mild disgust of
everything, * it could not do them any harm.
Primogeniture has always been a sort of
thing that makes some people foam at the
mouth.'

'My dear Edward I' cried Mrs. Penton; she
almost looked up from her work, which was a
great thing to say ; and when this mild woman
said * My dear Edward,' it was the same thing
as when a man says ' By Jove,' or 'By George.'
In the gentle level of her conversation it
counted as a sort of innocent oath. ' My dear
Edward I how could they abolish primogeniture ?
which so far as I know is just the Latin way of
saying that one of your children is born before
the others. Isn't it, Wat? Yell, 1 always
thought so. The Radicals may get to be very

powerful, but they can't make you have your
children all in a heap at the same time.'

But they can make it of no importance
which is born first ; that is what it means,' said
Mr. Penton. 'They would have the children
all equal, just the same; whether it is little
Horry or Wat there who thinks himself such a
great man.'

Well, so they are all the same,' said the
mother, a little bewildered. ' I often wonder
how it is that people can make favourites, for
I am sure I could not say, for my part, which
of them all I liked best. I like them all best
Horry because he is the littlest, and Wat
because he is the biggest, and all the rest of
them for some other reason, or just for no
reason at all. And so, I am sure, Edward, do
you.'

In that way AVat would be no better than
any of the rest,' said Anne.

I should have no call to do anything for
you,' said the young man, with an uncomfortable
laugh. * It would be. everyone for himself.
There would be no bother about little sisters or

brothers either. On the whole, it would be
rather a good bargain, don't yon think so,
mother? Horry and the others must all shift
for themselves when there is no eldest son  '

This time Mrs. Penton really did lift her soft
eyes.

'Don't say such wicked things !' she said ; 'it
is going against Scripture. As if anything
could change you from being the eldest son I
Who should look after the children if your
father and I were to die ? Oh, Wat ! how can
you speak so ?  when it is just my comfort,
knowing how uncertain life is, that the eldest is
grown up, and that there would be some one to
take our place, and take care of all these little
things !'

Mrs. Penton had no mind for politics, as will
be perceived, but the vision of the little orphans
without an elder brother struck her imagination.
This picture of unnatural desolation
brought the tears warm to her eyes. She took
another view of primogeniture from that which
is familiar to discussion, and it was some time
before they could explain it to her and get her

calmed and soothed. Indeed, as to explaining'
it, that was never accomplished ; but when she
fully knew that her first-born did not cast off
all responsibility in respect to little Horry she
was calm.

I don't pretend to understand poetics,' she
said, with great truth, 'but I know nature,'
which perhaps was not quite so true.

Mr. Pentonwas not at all moved by this little
digression, he took no notice of the argument
between the mother and the children. He was
a man who inclined to the opinion that things
were badly managed in this world, and that
those who meant to do well had generally a
hard fight. He thought that on the whole the
Avorst people had the best of it, and that a manlike
himself, struggling to do as well as he
could for his children, and to live as well as he
could, and do his duty generally, was surrounded
by hindrances and drawbacks which never
came in the way of less scrupulous people.

Such an opinion as this often fills a man with
indignation and something like rage, but it did
not have this effect upon Mr. Penton. It gave

him a general sense of discouragement, a feeling
that every thing was sure to go against him :
but it did not make him angry. Instead of
pointing, as the Psalmist did, with wonder and
indignation to the wicked who flourished like a
green bay-tree, he was more disposed to regard
this spectacle ath a melancholy smile as the
natural course of affairs. One might have known
that was how it would be, his look said. And
he was rather apt perhaps to identify himself as
the righteous man who had no such good-fortune
to look for. He had followed his own
train of thoughts while the others talked, and
now he went on continuing the subject.

We never can tell,' he said, ' one day from
another what changes may be made in the
law. Sir Walter is an old man, and it doesn't
seem as if there could be any changes in his
time ; but still a craze might get up, and the
thing might be done all in a moment which
has been threatened ever since I can recollect.
So I hope none of you will fill your heads with
fooHsh thoughts of what may happen when
Penton comes to me : for you see, for any-vol.

I. E

thing we know, it may never come to me at
all.'

Having said this, he ceased twirling his
thumbs, and rising up slowly cast a glance
about him as if looking for his hat. He never
brought his hat into the drawing-room, yet he
always did this, just as a dog will try to
scrape a hole in a Turkey carpet; and then
Mr. Penton said, as if it was quite a new idea,

I think I'll just take a little walk before tea.*

It was from an unusual quarter that the conversation
was renewed. Ally, who was so like
her mother, who had the same kind of light-brown
hair shading her soft countenance, knotted
low at the back of her head, the same fragile
willowy figure and submissive ways, lifted up
her head after the little pause that followed his
exit, when they all instinctively listened, and
followed him, so to speak, with their attention
while he walked out of the house. Ally raised
her head and asked, in a voice in which there
was a little apprehension,

I wonder if father really thinks that : and
what if it should come true !'

 Your father would not say it,' Mrs. Peuton
replied/ahvays careful to maintain her husband's
credit, 'unless he thought it, in a kind of a
way. But, for all that, perhaps it may never
happen. Things take a long time to happen,'
she said, with unconscious philosophy. * We
just won ourselves looking for changes, and
no change comes after all.'

But such a thing might happen suddenly
said Wat, thinking it necessary., in his father's
absence, to take up the serious side of the
argument,  father is quite right in that. Withall
the extensions of the suffrage and that sort
of thing which you don't understand, Ally, a
change in the law that has been long talked
about might happen in a moment. It all
depends upon what turn things may take.'

'Then we may never go to Penton at all,'
said Anne, jumping up and throwing her work
into her mother's large basket. ' I have always
been frightened for Penton all my life. It's a
ionic big chilly place that never would look
like home. I like the little old Hook best, and
I hope they will abolish primogeniture, or what

2



 Illinois

ever you call it, and so Wat will have to do
something and we shall stay at home.'

Anne ! do you wish that your father should
never come into his fortune,' her mother said,
in a reproachful tone, ' when you know his
heart is set upon it ? I am frightened myself
sometimes when I think of the change of living,
and having to give dinner-parties and all that ;
but when I think that Edward has never yet
been in his right element, that he has never had
the position he ought to have had  ah! for
that I could put up with anything,' she said.

CHAPTER IV.

THE YOUNG PEOPLE.

The young people at Penton Hook were good
children on the whole. They respected thei*
father and their mother, and though they did
not always agree in every domestic decision,
with that holy ignorance which distinguishes
childhood, they were not much less docile than
the little ones in respect to actual obedience.
At seventeen and eighteen, much more at
twenty, a young soul has begun to think a little
whether it reveals its judgment or not. Anne
lather own opinions on every subject by perversity
of nature; and Wat, who was a man, and
the heir, took on many points a very independent

view, and could scarcely help thinking now
and then that he knew better than his father.
And even Ally, who was the quietest, the most
disposed to yield her own way of thinking, still
had a little way of her own, and felt that other
ways of doing things might be adopted with
advantage. They were quite friends all three,
each other s chief companions ; and among
themselves they talked very freely, seeing the
mistakes that were being made about the other
children, and very conscious of much that might
have been done in their own individual cases.
Wat, for example, had much to complain of in
his own upbringing. He had been sent for a
year or two to Eton, and much had been said
about giving him the full advantage of what is
supposed to be the best education. But it had
been found after awhile that the infallible recurrence
of the end of the half, and the bills
that accompanied it, was a serious drawback,
and the annoyance given by them so entirely
outbalanced any sense of benefit received, that
at sixteen he had been taken away from school
under vague understandings that there was to

be work at home to prepare him for the University.
But the work at home had never come to
much. Mr. Penton had believed that it would bea
pleasant occupation for himself to rub up his
Latin and Greek, and that he would be as good
a coach as the boy could have. But his Latin
and Greek wanted a great deal of rubbing up.
The fashions of scholarship had changed since
his day, and perhaps he had never been so good
a scholar as he now imagined. And then it was
inconceivable to Mr. Penton that regularity of
hours was necessary in anything. He thought
that a mere prejudice of schoolmasters. He
would take Wat in the morning one day, then
in the afternoon, then miss a day or two, and
resume on the fifth or sixth after tea. What
could the hours matter ? It came about thus by
degrees that the readings which were to fit the
young man for matriculation failed altogether,
and no more was said about the University.

Wat had no very strong impulse to work in his
own person, but when he came to be twenty
and became aware that nothing further was
likely to come of it, he felt that he had been

neglected, and that, so far as education was concerned,
he had not had justice done him. Had
he been a very intellectual young man, or very
energetic, he would no doubt have been spurred
by this neglect into greater personal effort, and
done so much that his father would have been
shamed or forced into taking further steps. But
Wat was not of this noble sort. He was not
fond of work; he had always seen his father
idle ; and it seemed to him natural. So that he,
too, fell into the way of lounging about, and
doing odd things, and taking the days as they
came. They kept no horses, so he could not
hunt. He had not even a gun, nothing better
than an old one, which, now he was old enough
to know better, he was ashamed to carry. So
that those two natural occupations of the rural
gentleman were denied to him. And it is not
to be supposed that a boy could reach his
twentieth year without feeling that an education
of this kind  a non-education  had been a mistake.
He knew that he was at a disadvantage
among his fellow-boys or fellow-men. Whether
he would have felt this as much had he been

under uo other disadvantages in respect to
horses and guns and pocket-money, we do not
venture to say; but, taking everything together,
Wat could not but feel that he was rnanqu,
capable of nothing, having no place among his
kind. And if he felt doubly in consequence the
importance of his heirship, and that Penton
would set all right, who could blame him ? It
was the only possibility in that poor little dull
horizon which at Penton Hook seemed to run
into the flats of the level country, the mud and
the mist, and the rising river, and the falling
rain.

The girls had their little grievances too, but
felt Wat's grievance to be so much greater than
theirs, that they took up his cause vehemently,
and threw all their indignation and the disapproval
of their young intelligences into the
weight of his. It was impossible that they could
be as they were, young creatures full of life and
active thought, without feeling what a mistake
it all was, and how far the authorities of the
family were wrong. They subjected, indeed,
the decisions of the father and mother, but

especially the father, as all our children do, to a
keen and clear-sighted inspection, seeing what
was amiss much more clearly than the wisest of
us are apt to do in our own case. A little child
of ten will thus follow and judge a philosopher,
perhaps unconsciously in most cases, without a
word to express its condemnation. The young
Pentons were not so silent. They spoke their
mind, in the perfect confidence of family intercourse,
to their mother always, sometimes to
their father too. And no doubt, in pure logic,
this criticism and disapproval should have dealt
a great blow at the discipline of the house, and
destroyed the principle of obedience.

But fortunately logic is the last thing that
affects the natural family life. Wat and Ally and
Anne were in reality almost as obedient as were
the little ones to whom the decisions of papa and
mamma were as the law and the gospels. It
had never occurred to them to raise any standard
of rebellion ; they did what they were told by
sweet natural bonds of habit, by the fact that
they had always done it, by the unbroken sentiment
of filial subjection. The one thing did

not seem to affect the other. It never occurred
even to Wat to stop and argue the point
with his father ; he did what he was told, though
afterwards, when he came to think of it, he might
think that his own way would have been the
most wise.

The conversation which is set down in the
last chapter did not give any insight into the
family controversy that had been going on 
being only, as it were, the subsiding of the
waves after that discussion had come to an end.
The subject in question was one which greatly
moved and excited all the young people.
Oswald, the second boy, who came next iu
the family after Anne, was the genius of the
house. He was not much more than fifteen,
but he had already written many poems and
other compositions which had filled the house
with wonder. The girls were sure that in a few
years Lord Tennyson himself would have to
look to his laurels, and Mr. Ruskin to stand
aside ; for Oswald's gifts There manifold, and it
was indifferent to him whether he struck the
strings of poetry or the more sober chord of

prose. Wat's fraternal admiration was equally
genuine and more generous, for it is a little hard
upon a big boy to recognise his younger brother's
superiority ; and it was dashed by a certain conviction
that it would be for Osy's good to betaken
down a little.

But Wat, quite as much as the girls, was
agitated by the question which had been,
so to speak, before a committee of the whole
house. It was a question of more importance
at Penton Hook than the fate of the
ministry or the elections, or anything that might
be going on in Europe. It was the question
whether Osy should be continued where he was,
at Marlborough, or if his education should be
suspended till ' better times.' Behind this lay a
darker and more dreadful suggestion, of which
the family were vaguely conscious, but which
did not come absolutely under discussion, and
this was whether Osy's education should be
stopped altogether, and an ' opening in life '
found for him.

Nothing that had ever happened to them
had moved the family so much as this question.

The ' better times ' to which the Pen-tons
looked forward could be nothing other
than the death of Sir Walter, and Mr. Penton's
accession to the headship of the family ; and it
was in the hill of exhaustion that followed a
long discussion that Mrs. Penton made her suggestion
about the propriety of an allowance
being made to her husband as the heir of the
property, which had led him into the expression
of those general but discouraging ideas about
entails and primogeniture. It had not perhaps
occurred to Mr. Penton before : but, now he came
to think of it, it seemed just of a piece with the
general course of affairs, and of everything that
had happened to him in the past, that new laws
should come in at the moment and deprive him
in the future of the heirship of which he had
been so sure.

When Mr. Penton went out for his walk after
the statement he had made of these possibilities,
Wat and the girls went out too, on their usual
afternoon expedition to the post. There was
not very much to be done at Penton Hook,
especially at this depressing time of the year.

when tennis was impracticable, and the river
was not to be thought of. The only amusement
possible was walking, and that is a pleasure
which palls above all, when the roads are
muddy and there is nowhere in particular to goto.
It was Anne, in the force of her youthful
invention, who had established the habit of
going to the post. It was an ' object,' and
made a walk into a sort of duty  not the mere
meaningless stroll which, without this purpose,
it would turn to; and, though the correspondence
of the household was not great, Anne also
managed that there should always be something
which demanded to be posted, and could
not be delayed. When there was nothing else,
she would herself dash off a note to one of
the many generous persons who advertise mysterious
occupations by which ladies and other
unemployed persons may earn an income without
a knowledge of drawing or anything else in
particular. Alas ! Anne had answered so many
of these advertisements that she was no longer
sanguine of getting a satisfactory reply ; but if
there was no letter to be sent off, nothing of

her father's about business no post-card concerning
the groceries, or directions to the
dressmaker, or faithful family report from
Mrs. Penton to one of her relations, such as,
amid all the occupations of her life, that dutiful
woman sent regularly, Anne could always
supply the necessary letter from her own resources.


It was on a similar afternoon to that on
which the Pentons at the great house had discussed
and thought of the poorer household ;
and a wintry sunset, very much the same as
that on which !Mr. Russell and his T-ife had
looked, shone in deep lines of crimson and gold,
making of the river which reflected it a stream
of flame, when the three young people, far too
much absorbed in their own affairs to think
of the colours in the sky or the reflections
in the river, or anything but Osy and his prospects,
and the state of the family finances, and
the mistakes of family government, came down
the hill from the level of the Penton woods
towards their own home. The western sky,
blazing with colour, was on the left hand ; but

even the sky towards the north and east shared
in the general illumination, and clouds all resented,
concealing their heaviness in the flush of
reflection, hung upon the chill blue, and seemed
to warm the fresh wintry atmosphere before it
sank into the chill of night. The girls and
their brother kept their heads together, speaking
two at once in the eagerness of their feelings,
and found no time for contemplation of
what was going on overhead. A sunset is a
thing which comes every evening, and about
which there is no urgent reason for attention,
as there was upon this question about Osy,
which struck at the foundations of family credit
and hope.

When I left Eton,' said Wat, with melancholy
candour  ' I had not much sense, to be
sure it seemed rather fine coming away to
work at home. Fellows thought I was going
to work for something out of the common way.
I liked it on the whole. When you are at
school, there is always something jolly in the
thought of coming home. And so will Osy feel
like me.'

But YOU were never clever, Wat,' said the
impetuous Anne.

This was perhaps a little hard to bear.

Clever is neither here nor there,' said Wat,
with a little flush. ' It does not make much
difference to your feelings ; I suppose I can
tell better how Osy will take it than one of you
girls.'

Oh, no ; for girls are more ambitious than
boys, I mean boys that are just ordinary like
the rest. And Osy is not Hke you. He is full
of ambition, he wants to be something, to make
a great name. I have the most sympathy with
that. Ally and you,' cried the girl, with a toss
of her head like a young colt, 'you are the contented
ones, you are so easily satisfied ; but not
Osy nor me.'

'Contented is the best thing you can be,'
said gentle Ally. 'What is there better than
content 1 Whatever trouble people take, it is
only in the hope of getting satisfaction at the
end.'

I wish I was contented,' said Walter, ' that
is all you know. What have I got to be con-vol.

I. F

tented about ? I have nothing to do ; I have
no prospects in particular, nothing to look forward
to.'

Oh, Witty Penton !'

Penton is all very well : but how can we tell
when Sir Walter may die ? No, I don't want
him to die,' cried the young man. ' I wish no
harm to him nor to any man. I only say that
because  Of course, so long as Sir Walter
lives Penton may be paradise, but it has nothing
to say to us. And then, as father says,
the law may be changed before that happens,
or something else may come in the way. No, 1
don't know what can come in the way ; for after
Sir Walter, of course, father is head of the
family, and I am the eldest son.' These words
had a cheering effect upon the youth in spite
of himself. He turned back to look up where
the corner of the great house was visible amid
the trees. The Pentons of the Hook knew all
the spots where that view was to be had. He
turned round to look at it, turning the girls
with him, who were like two shadows. No
prospects in particular ! when there was that

before his eyes, the house of his fathers, the
house which he intended to transmit to his
children ! He drew a long breath which came
from the very depths of his chest, a sigh of
satisfaction yet of desire  of a feeling too deep
to get into words. ' I say, what a sunset I' he
cried, by way of diverting the general attention
from this subject, upon which he did not feel
able to express himself more clearly.

They all looked for the first time at the gi-and
operation of nature which was going on in the
western sky. The heavens were all aglow with
lines of crimson and purple, the blue spaces of
the great vault above retiring in light ineffable
far beyond the masses of clouds, which took on
every tinge of colour, preserving their own
high purity and charms of infinitude. The
great plain below lay silent underneath like a
breathless spectator of that great, ever-returning
drama, the river gathering up fragments of the
glory and flashing back an answer here and
there in its windings wherever it was clear of
the earthly obstructions of high banks and trees.
Something of the same radiance flashed in

f2

miniature from the young eyes that with one
accord turned and looked  but for a moment
and no more. They noted the sunset in a
parenthesis, by a momentary inference ; what
they had sought was Penton, with all its human
interests. And then they turned again and
faced the north, where lay their poor little
home and the lowliness of the present, to
which neither the sunset nor any other glory
lent a charm.

You are the eldest son,' said Anne, resuming
without a pause; 'that's all about it. That
makes everything different. Suppose it is
right  or at least not Avrong  for you to loaf
about. But Osy hasn't got Penton ; he has got
to make himself a name. If he is stopped in
his education, what is he to do ? You ought
to speak to father ; we all ought to make a
stand. If Osy is stopped in his education it is
quite different. What is he to do?'

Father would never stop his education if
he could afford it. It is the money. If we
could only give up something. But what is
there we can give up ? Sugar and butter

count for so little,' said Ally, in soft tones of
despair.

'I slionld not mind,' said Anne, ' if we did not
get anything new for years.'

We so seldom have anything new,' her sister
said, A-ith a sigh ; there was so little to economise
in this way. All the savings they could
think of would not make up half the sum that
had to be paid for Osy. Their young spirits
were crushed under this thought. What could
they do ? The girls, as has been said, had
answered a great many of those advertisements
which offer occupation to ladies ; they had tried
to make beaded lace and to paint Christmas
cards. Alas I that, like the butter and sugar,
counted for so little. They might as well try to
make use of the colours of the sunset as to makeup
Osy's schooling in that way : and Wat was
even more helpless than they. It was so discouraging
a prospect that no one could say a
word. They walked down with their faces to
the greyness and dimness from whence night
was coming, and their hopes, like the light,
seemed to be dying away.

It was Anne, always the most quick to note
everything that happened, who broke the
silence.

What is that,' she cried, ' at our door ?
Look there, wheeling in just under the lime-trees
!'

A carriage ! Who can it be ?'

The Penton carriage ! Don't you see the
two bays ? Something must be up !' cried
Walter, a flash of keen curiosity kindling in his
eyes.

They stopped for a moment and looked at
each other with a sudden thrill of expectation.

No one has been to see us from Penton for
years and years.'

 The carriage would not come for nothing !'

It has been sent perhaps to fetch father !'

They hurried down with one accord, full of
excitement and wonder and awe.

CHAPTER V.

A WINTER S WALK.

Mr. Penton went out to take his walk in a
depressed mood. He was familiar with all the
stages of depression. He was a man who
thought he had been hardly dealt with in the
com-se of his life. In his youth there had been
a momentary blaze of gaiety and pleasure. In
those days, when he had shared the early follies
of Walter and Reginald, and fallen in love with
Ahcia, it had not occurred to him that the path
of existence would be a dull one. But that was
all over long ago. When the other young men
had fallen into dissipation and all its attendant
miseries, he had pulled himself up. Pleasure

was all very well, but he had no idea of paying
such a price for it as that. He was not a man
who had ever been brought under any strong
religious impulse, but he knew the difference
between right and wrong. He pulled himself
up with great resolution, and abandoned the
flowery path where all the thorns are at first
hidden under the bloom and brightness.

It was no small sacrifice to descend into the
grey mediocrity of Penton Hook, and give himself
up to the dull life which was all that was
possible; but he did it, which was not an
easy  thing to do. It was true that he was
still in those days a young man, and might
have made something better of his existence
: but he had no training of any special
kind, no habit of work, no great capacity one
way or other. He settled down to his dull
country life without any feeling that he could
do better, leaving all excitement behind him.
It was perhaps a more creditable thing to do
than if he had been able to plunge into another
kind of excitement, to face the world and
carve a fortune out of it, which is the

alternative possible to some men. And as
there had been no illusion possible when he
accepted that neutral-tinted life, so there had
been no unexpected happiness involved in its
results.

He had married a good woman, but not a
Hvely one. His children had been pleasant and
amusing in their babyhood, but they had brought
innumerable cares along with them. Before
their advent Penton Hook had been dull, but it
had not been without many little comforts. He
had been able to keep a couple of horses, which
of itself was a considerable thing, and to hold
his place more or less among the county people.
But as the young ones gi-ew, it made a great
difference. Just at the time when life ought to
have opened up for their advantage, it had to
be narrowed and straitened. He was compelled
to give up his own gratifications on their
account, yet without any compensating consciousness
that he was doing the best he could
for them. Indeed, there seemed no possibility
of doing the best that could be done for anyone.
To keep on, to do what was indispensable,

to provide food and clothing  the mere
sordid necessities of Hfe  was all that was
within his power. In the early days after his
marriage nothing had been saved; the necessity
of education and provision for the children
seemed either ludicrous in presence of the tiny
creatures who wanted nothing but bread-and-milk
and kisses, or so far off as to be beyond
calculation. But by gradual degrees this
necessity had become the most important of all.
And with it, unfortunately, had come that
depreciation in the value of land which made
his little estate much less productive exactly at
the time when he wanted money most.

One of his farms was vacant, the others were
let at low rents  all was sinking into a different
level. And, on the other hand, the wants of
the family increased every day. It is not to be
supposed that Mr. Penton liked to take Osy
from school. He had been indifferent about
Wat for various reasons, first because he
then quite believed he was really capable
of 'reading' with his boy, and would rather
like it than otherwise, and then it would

be a good thing for them both ; .and second,
because Wat was the heir, and no great education
is necessary (Mr. Penton thought with Mrs
Hardcastle in the play) to fit a man to spend a
large income. But with Osy no such argument
told. Osy was heir to nothing. He was the
clever one of the family ; and, as for reading
with Osy, his father knew that he was not
capable of any such feat, even if he had not
proved that to keep settled hours and gi\'e up
a part of this day to his son's instruction had
come to be a thing impossible to him. He knew
very well now that to take Oswald from school
would be to do him an injury. But what could
the poor man do ?

All that the young ones said in their warm
partisanship for Osy, in their indignation at the
idea of making him suffer, had more or less
affected their father. He was not very sensitive
to anything they could say, and yet it wounded
him in a dull way. It made him more depressed
and despondent. To battle with the Avaves, to be
tossed upon a great billow which may swallow
you up, yet may also throw you ashore and

bring you to a footing upon the solid earth, is
less terrible than just to keep your head above
the muddy tide which sucks you down and
carries you on, with no prospect but to go to
the bottom at last when your powers of endurance
are spent. This last Alas Mr. Penton's
state. There was no excitement of a storm, no
lively stir of winds and waters  all was dull,
dreary, hopeless ; a position in which he could
do nothing to help himself, nothing to save himself
 in which he must go on, keeping his head
above water as he could, now and then going
down, getting his eyes and throat full of the
heavy, muddy, livid stream. Poverty is little to
the active soul which can struggle and strive and
outwit it, which can still be doing ; but to those
who have nothing they can do, who can only
wait speechless till they are engulfed, how bitter
is that slowly-mounting, colourless, hopeless, all-subduing
tide !

There Alas very little for a man to do at
Penton Hook. He had tramped about the
fields of the vacant farm, trying helplessly to
look after things which he did not understand.

and to make the fallow fields bear crops by
looking at them, in the morning : and he had
come away from them more depressed than
ever, wondering whether, if he could get
money enough to start and work the farm, anything
might be made of it ; then reflecting dolefully
that in all likelihood the money for such
operations, even if he could raise it, might in
all probability be as well thrown into the river
for any good it would do.

In the afternoon he did not attempt any
further consideration of this question, but
simply took a walk, as he had been in the habit
of doing for so many years. And though in
some circumstances there are few things so
pleasant, yet in others there is nothing so doleful
as this operation of taking a walk.

How much helpless idleness, how many
hopeless self-questions, miserable musings, are
summed up in it ; what a dreamy commonplace
it turns to, the sick soul's dull substitute for
something to do or think of. It was in its way
a sort of epitome of Edward Penton's wearisome
Hfe. He knew every turning of the road ; there

was nothing unexpected to look forward to, no
novelty, no incident ; when he met anyone he
knew, any of his equals, they were most probably
riding or driving, or returning from a
day with the hounds, splashed and tired, and
full of talk about the run. He took off his hat
to the country ladies as they drove past, and
exchanged a word with the men. He had
nothing to say to them nor they to him. He
was of their sphere indeed, but not in it. He
knew when he had passed that they would say
Poor Penton !' to each other, and discuss his
circumstances. He was happier when he came
now and then upon a solitary poor man breaking
stones on the way, with whom he would
stop and have a talk about the weather or how
the country was looking. When he could find
twopence in his pocket to give for a glass of
beer he was momentarily cheered by the encounter.
It was a cheap pleasure, and almost
his only one. It gave a little relief to the dulness
and discouragement which filled all the rest
of the way.

There was, however, one incident in his walk

besides the twopence to the stone-breaker.
There was no novelty in this. Every day as he
came up to the turning he knew what awaited
him ; but that did not take away from its perennial
interest. This incident was Penton, seen in
the distance, not the terraced front, which he,
like all the Pentons, thought a monument of
architectural art, but a high shoulder of red
masonry, which shone through the trees, and
suggested all the rest to his accustomed eyes.
Penton was the one incident in his walk, as it
was in his life. He was poor, and the waters of
misery where almost going over his head. Yet
Penton stood fast, and he was the heir. He had
said this to himself for years, and though the
words might have worn out all then meaning,
so often had they been repeated, yet there was
an endless excitement in them.

Twenty years before he had said them with a
sense of mingled exultation and remorse, which
was when the last of *the boys' died, and he
became against all possibility the next heir. Sir
Walter had been an old man then, and it seemed
probable that these recurring calamities would

end his life as well as his hopes. Edward Pen-ton
had nothing to reproach himself with ; he
had never been hard upon his cousins, though
he had abandoned their evil Avays, and he had
been shocked and sorry when one by one they
died. But afterwards he had looked forward to
his inheritance ; he had believed that it could not
be far off. He had come to this turning when
first he began to feel life too many for him, and
had looked at the house that was to be his, and
had taken comfort. But twenty years is a longtime,
and waiting for dead men's shoes is not a
pleasant occupation. He looked at Penton now
always with excitement, but without any exhilaration
of hope. It did not seem so unlikely
as before that Sir Walter might live to be a
hundred ; that he might live to see his younger
cousin out. As he had outlived his own sons,
he might outlive Edward Penton and Its sons
after him. Nothing seemed impossible to such
an old man. And Mr. Penton did not feel that
his own powers of living, any more than any
other powers in him, were much to be reckoned
upon. He stood on this particular day and

gazed at the house of his fathers with a long
and wistful look. Should he ever step into it
as his own? Should he ever change his narrow
state for the lordship there ? This question did
not bring to him the same quickening of the
breath which he had been sensible of on so
many previous occasions. He was too much
depressed to-day to be roused even by that.
He turned away with a sigh, and turned his
back to that vision and his face homeward.
At home all his cares were awaiting him  as if
he had not carried them with him every step of
the way.

As he walked back towards Penton Hook his
ear was caught by the chip of the hammer,
which sounded in the stillness of the wintry
afternoon like some big insect on the road.
Chip, chip, and then the little roll of falling
stones. The man who made the sound was
sitting on a heap of stones by the roadside,
working very tranquilly, not hurrying himself,
taking his occupation easily. He was repaired,
"with a picturesque grey beard, and a red
handkerchief knotted underneath. He paused

VOL. I. G

to put his baud to his cap when he saw Mr. Pen-ton.
The recollection of past glasses of beer,
or hopes for the future, or perhaps the social
pleasure, independent of all interested motives,
of five minutes' talk to break the dulness of the
long afternoon, made the approach of the wayfarer
pleasant.

Good afternoon, sir,' he said, cheerfully

Old Rochford, though he was a great deal
older than Mr. Penton, and much poorer absolutely,
though not comparatively, was by no
means a depressed person, but regarded everything
from a cheerful point of view.

Good morning, Rochford,' said Mr. Pen-ton.
' I didn't see you when I passed a little
while ago. I thought you had not been out
to-day.'

Bless you, squire, I'm out most days,' said
Rochford ; * weather like this it's nothing' but
pleasure. But frost and cold is disagreeable, and
rain's worst of all. I'm all right as long as
there's a bit o' sunshine, and it keeps up.'

It looks like keeping up, or I am no judge,'
said the poor squire.

Rochford shook his head and looked up at the
sky.

I don't like the look of them clouds,' he said.
When they rolls up like that, one on another,
I never likes the look of them. But, praise the
Lord, we's high and dry, and can't come to no
harm

It is more than I am,' said Mr. Penton, testily.
*I hate rain I'

And when the river's up it's in of the house,
sir, I've heard say ? That's miserable, that is.
"When the children were young my missis and
me we lived down by Pepper's Wharf, and the
fevers as them little ones had, and the coughs
and sneezing's, and the rheumatics, it's more nor
tongue can say. Your young ladies, squire, is
wonderful red in the face and straight on their
pins to be living alongside of the river. It's
an unpleasant neighbour, is the river, I always
do say.'

If you hear any fools saying that the water
comes into my house you have my permission to
stop them,' said Mr. Penton, angrily. ' It's no
such thing ; the water never comes higher than

g2

the terrace. As for fevers, we don't know what
they are. But I don't like the damp in my
garden ; that stands to reason. It spoils all the
paths and washes the gravel away.'

That's very true,' said Rochford, with conviction
; ' it leaves 'em slimy, whatever you do.
I've seen a sight to-day as has set me thinking,
though I'm but a poor chap. Poor men, like
others, they 'as their feelings. I've seen a lady
go by, squire, as maybe once upon a day, years
ago, you, or most of the gentlemen about  for
she was a handsome one, she was '

Ah, an old beauty ! " Even in our ashes
hive their wonted fires." And who might this
lady be r

Many a one was sweet upon her,' said Crock-ford.
' I ain't seen her, not to call seeing, for
many a year. I don't know about ashes, squire,
except as they're useful for scouring. And they
say that beauty is but skin deep ; but when I
looks at an 'handsome lady I don't think nothing
of all that;

I didn't know you were such an enthusiast,
Rochford.'

'1 don't always understand, squire,' said
Rochford, ' the words the quality employ. Xo'
and then they'll have a kind of Greek or Latin
that means just a simple thing. But I sits here
hours on end, and I thinks a deal ; and for a
thing that pleases the eye I don't think there's
nothing more satisfying than an 'handsome
woman. I don't say in my own class of life,
for they ages fast, do the women ; they don't
keep their appearance, like you and me, if I may
make so bold. But for a lady as has gone
through a deal, and kep' her looks, and got
an air with her, that goes with riding in her
own carriage behind a couple of 'handsome bays
I wall say, squire, if 1 was to be had up before
the magistrates for it  and you're one yourself,
and ought to know  and what I say is
this : that Miss Alicia from the great house there
is just as fine a sight as a man would wish to
see.'

Miss AHcia !' cried poor Penton, The name
was one he had not heard for long, and it seemed
to bring back a flush of his youth which for a
moment dazzled him. He burst out into a tremendous

laugh after a while. ' You old blockhead
!' he said. ' You're talking of Mrs. Russell
PentoD, my cousin, who hasn't been called by
that name these twenty years !'

Twenty years,' said old Rochford, ' is nothing',
squire, to a man like me. I knew her a baby,
just as I snowed you. You're both two infants
to the likes of me. Bless you, I hear the bells
ring for her christening and yours too. But shea
fine, 'handsome woman, a-wheelin' along in her
carriage as if all the world belonged to her. I
don't think nothing' of a husband that hasn't even
a name of his own to bless himself with, nor a
penny to spend. It's you and her that should
have made a match ; that's what ought to have
been, squire.'

Unfortunately, you see,' said Mr. Penton, ' I
have got a wife of my own.'

But you hadn't no wife nor her a husband in
the old days,' said Rochford, meditatively
pausing to emphasise his words with the chip
chip of his hammer. ' Dear-aime ! the mistakes
that are in this life ! One like me, as sits here
hours on end, with nought afore him but the

clouds flying and the wend blowing, learns a-
many things. There's more mistakes than aught
else in this life. Going downright wrong makes
a deal of trouble, but mistakes makes more.
For one as goes wrong there's allays two or
three decent folks as suffers. But mistakes
is just like daily bread ; they're like the poor as
is ever with us, according' to the Scripture ;
they just makes a muddle of everything. It's
been going through my mind since ever I
see Miss Ahciar in her chariot a-driving
away, as fine as King Solomon in all his glory.
The two young gentlemen, that was a sad soil;
of a thing, squire, but I don't know as t'other
is much better, the mistakes as some folks do
make.'

'Rochford, you are growing old, and fond of
talking,' said Mr. Pent on, who had heard him
out with a sort of angry patience. * Because
one lets you go on and say your say, that's
not to make you a judge of your betters.
Look here, here's twopence for a glass of beer,
but mind you keep your wisdom to yourself
another day.'

Thank ye, squire,' said Rochford. ' 1 speak
my mind in a general way, but I can hold my
tongue as well as another Avhen it ain't liked.
Remarks as is unpleasant, or as pricks like, going
too near a sore place '

Oh, confound you I' said the squire ; ' whoever
said there was a  ' But then he remembered
that to quarrel with Rochford was not a
thing to be done. ' I think, after all,' he said,
you're right, and that those clouds are banking
up for rain. You'd better pack up your hamper,
it's four o'clock, and it will be wet before
you get home.'

Well, squire, if you says so, as is one of the
trustees,' said Rochford, giving an eye to the
clouds, he swung himself leisurely off his hard
and slippery seat upon the heap of stones,  ' I'll
take your advice, sir, and thank ye, sir : and
wishing you a pleasant walk afore the rain comes
on.'

Mr. Penton waved his hand and continued
his walk down hill towards his home. The
clouds were gathering, indeed, but they were
full of colour and reflection, which showed all

the more gorgeous against the rolling background
of vapour which gradually obliterated
the blue. He was not afraid of the rain, though
if it meant another week of wet weather such
as had already soaked the country, it would also
mean much discomfort and inconvenience in
the muddy little domain of Penton Hook. But
it was not this he was thinking of. His
own previous reflections, and the sharp reminder
of the past that was in old Rochford's
random talk, made a combination not unlike
that of the dark clouds and the lurid reflected
colours of the sky. Mistake ? Yes ; no doubt
there had been a mistake  many mistakes, one
after another, mistakes which the light of the
past, vith all its dying gleams, made doubly
apparent.

His mind was so full of all these thoughts
that he arrived at his own gate full of them,
without thinking of the passing vision which
had stirred up old Rochford, and his own
mind too, on hearing of it. But when he
pushed open the gate and caught sight of the
two bays, pawing and rearing their heads, with

champ and stir of all their trappings, as if they
disdained the humble door at which they stood,
Edward Penton's middle-aged heart gave a sudden
jump in his breast. Alicia here ! What
could such a portent mean ?

CHAPTER YL

RICH MRS. Sexton AND POOR MRS. Fenton.

Mrs. Russell Sexton had not come to the
Hook for nothing. It was years since she had
visited he:* cousin's house  partly because of
repeated absences  for the family at Penton
were fond of escaping from the winter, and generally
spent that half of the year on the Riviera
partly from the feeling she had expressed to
her husband, which was not a very Christian
feeling, of repulsion from her father's heir : and
partly, which was perhaps the strongest reason
of all, because they were not, as she said, 'in
our own spheres How can the wife and many
children of a poor man living in a small muddy

riverside house be in the sphere of one of the
great ladies of the district ? Only great qualities
on one side or another, great affection or
some other powerful inducement, would be
enough to span that gulf. And no such link
existed between the two houses. But there had
come to light between her father and herself in
one of those close and long consultations, to
Which not even her husband was admitted, a
plan which required Edward Penton's concurrence,
and which, they concluded between them,
had better be set before him by Alicia herself.
This might have been done by summoning the
heir-at-law to Penton. But Russell Penton's
veiled remonstrances, his laugh at her inconsistency,
his comparison of the importance of the
moth-eating tapestry and poor Mrs. Penton's inability
to cut her coat according to her cloth,
had not been without effect on his wife's mind.
She was not incapable of perceiving the point
which he made ; and though she confessed to
nobody, not even to herself, that her visit to
Penton Hook had a little remorseful impulse in
it, yet this mingled largely with the evident

business which might have been managed in
another way.

Many recollections rose in her mind also as
she went along, not exposed even to such inspections
as that of old Rochford, all by herself
with her own thoughts, remembering in spite of
herself the youthful expeditions in which the
Hook was so large a feature, the boating parties
that * took the water ' there, the anxious
exertions of poor Edward to make his forlorn
little mansion bright. Poor Edward ! She remembered
so clearly his eager looks, his desire
to please, the anxious devices with which he
sought to gratify her tastes, to show how his
own followed them. She had not seen much
of his older aspect, and had no distinct image
in her mind to correct that of the eager young-man
reading her face to see if she approved or
disapproved, and having no higher standard by
which to shape his own opinions. She saw
him in that aspect ; and she saw him as by a
lightning flash of terrible recollection, which
was half imagination, as he had appeared to herby
the side of her last brother's grave the chief

mourner and the chief gainer, concealing a newborn
sense of his own importance under the
conventional guise of woe.

Alicia was half-conscious that she did poor
Edward wrong. He was not the sort of man
to exult in his own advantage as purchased by
such a terrible family tragedy. But even now,
when the passion of grief and loss was over,
she could not surmount the bitter suggestion,
the knowledge that he had certainly gained by
what was ruin to her father's house. When she
drove past the old stone-breaker on the road
without taking any notice of him, without even
remarking his presence, this had been the recollection
with which her soul was filled. But her
heart melted as the carriage swept along by all
the well-remembered corners, and a vision of
the happy youthful party of old, the sound of
the boats at the Httle landing, the eager delight
of the young master of the place, seemed to
come back to her ears and eyes.

But Penton Hook did not look much like a
boating-party to-day. The water was very near
the level of the too green grass, the empty

damp flower-beds, the paths that gleamed
With wet. A certain air of deprecating helplessness
standing feebly against that surrounding
power was in everything about. Alicia,
as she was now, the active-minded manager of
much property, full of energy and resources,
one of those who, like the centurion, have but
to say, ' Come, and he cometh ; do this, and he
doeth it,' cast her eyes, awakened out of all
dreams, upon the sweep of river and the little
bit of weeping soil which seemed to lie in its
grasp appealing for mercy to the clouds and
the skies. The sight gave new life to all her
scornful comments upon the incompetency of
those who, knowing what they had, could not
take the dignified position of making it to do,
but sank into failure and helpless defeat. She
planned rapidly io a moment what she would
do, were it but to keep the enemy at bay.
Were it hers she would scarcely have waited
for the dawn of the morning, she would have
sent in her workmen, prepared her plans, learned
the best way to deal with it, long ago. She
would have made herself the mistress, not the

slave, of the surrounding stream. In whatever
way, at whatever cost, she would have freed
herself, she would have overcome these blind
influences of nature. It was with a little scorn,
feeling that she could have done this, feeling
that she would like to do it, that it would be a
pleasure to fight and overcome that silent,
senseless force, that Mrs. Russell Penton, rich
Mrs. Penton, swept in through the weeping
gardens of the Hook, and with all the commotion
of a startling arrival, her bays prancing, her
wheels cutting the gravel, drew up before the
open door.

The door was always open, whether the day
was warm or cold, with an aspect not of hospitality
and liberal invitation, but rather of disorder
and a squalid freedom from rule. The
hall was paved with vulgar tiles which showed
the traces of wet feet, and Mrs. Russell Penton
sank down all at once from her indignant half-satisfied
conviction that it was a sign of the
incompetency of poor Edward in his present
surroundings that he had never attempted to do
anything to mend matters, when brought thus

face to face with poverty. The traces of the
wet feet appalled her. This was just such an
evidence of an incompetent household and careless
mistress as fitted in to her theory ; but it
was terrible to her unaccustomed senses, to
which a perfection of nicety and propriety was
indispensable, and any breach of absolute cleanliness
and purity unknown. The maid, who
hushed frightened, yet delighted, to the door,
did not, however, can out the first impression
made. She was so neat in her black gown and
white apron that the visitor was non-passed as
by an evident contradiction.

Can you tell me if Mr. Penton is at home V
she asked, leaning out of the carriage and
putting aside the footman with a momentary
feeling that this, perhaps, might be one of
poor Edward's daughters acting as housemaid.

No, my lady ; but missis is in,' said the handmaid
with a curtsey which she had learned at
school. Martha did not know who the visitor
was, but felt that in all circumstances to call a
visitor who came in such a fine carriage my lady
could not be wrong.

VOL. 1. H

Missis is in !'

Rich Mrs. Penton felt a momentary thrill.
It was as if she had been hearing herself spoken
of in unimaginable circumstances. She paused
a little with a sense of unwillingness to go
further. She had met on various occasions the
insignificant pretty young woman who was poor
Edward's wife. She had made an effort to be
kind to her when they were first married, when
the poor Pentons were still more or less in one's
own sphere. But there had been nothing to
interest her, nothing to make up for the trouble
of maintaining so uncomfortable a relationship,
and since that period she had not taken any
notice of her cousin's wife, a woman always immured
in nursing cares, having babes or
nourishing them, or deep in some one of those
semi-animal (as she said) offices which disgust a
fastidious woman, who in her own person has
nothing of the kind to do. A woman without
children becomes often very fastidious on this
point. Perhaps the disgust may be partly
born of envy, but at all events it exists and is
strong.

Mrs. Penton hesitated as to whether lie would
turn back and not go in at all, or whether she
would wait at the door till Edward came in, or
ask to be shown into his particular sitting-room
to wait for him : but that, she reflected, would
be a visible slight to Edward's Tvdfe. The unexpressed,
formulated dread of what Russell
might say restrained her here. He would not
criticise, but he would laugh, which was much
worse. He would perhaps give vent to a certain
small whistle which she knew very well, when
she acknowledged that she had been to Penton
Hook without seeing the mistress of the house.
She did not at all confess to herself that she
was a coward, but as a matter of fact rich Mrs.
Penton was more afraid of that whistle than
poor Mrs. Penton was of anything, except
scarlatina.

Ahcia hesitated ; she sat still in her carriage
for the space of a minute, while simple Martha
gazed as if she had been a queen, and admired
the deep fur on the lady's velvet mantle, and
the bonnet which had come from Pans. Then
Mrs. Penton made up her mind.

II 2

Perhaps your mistress will see me,' she
said ; ' I should like to wait till Mr. Pentou
comes in.'

Oh, yes, my lady,' Martha said. Though
she had been carefully instructed how to
answer visitors, she felt instinctively that this
visitor could not be asked her name as if she
was an ordinary lady making a call. She
then opened the drawing-room very wide and
said, * Please, ma'am !' then stopped and let the
great lady go in.

Mrs. Penton, poor Mrs. Penton, was sitting by
the fire on a low chair. There was not light
enough to work by, and yet there was too much
light to ask for the lamp. It was a welcome
moment of rest from all the labours that were
her heritage. She liked it perhaps all the
better that her husband and the older ones,
who would talk or make demands upon her to
be talked to, were out and she was quite free.
To be alone now and then for a moment is
sweet to a hard-worked woman who never is
alone. Indeed, she was not alone now. Two
of the little ones were on the rug by her feet.

But they made no demands upon their
mother, they played with each other, keeping
up a babble of little voices, within reach of her
hand to be patted on the head, within reach of
her dress to cling to, should a wild beast suddenly
appear or an ogre or a naughty giant.
Thus, though they said nothing to each other,
they were a mutual comfort and support, the
mother to the children and the children to the
mother.

And if we could unveil the subtle chain
of thinking from about that tired and silent
woman's heart, the reader would wonder to
see the lovely things that were there. But
she was scarcely aware that she was thinking,
and what she thought was not half definite
enough to be put into words. A world of gentle
musings, one linked into another, none of them
separable from the rest, was about her in the
firelight, in the darkness, the quiet and not
ungrateful fatigue. She was not thinking at all,
she would have said. It was as though something
revolved silently before her, gleaming out
here and there a recollection or realisation. The

warmth, the dimness, the quiet, lulled her in
the midst of all her cares. She had thought of
Osy till her head ached. How this dreadful
misfortune could be averted; how he could be
kept on at Marlborough ; until in the impossibility
of finding any expedient, and the weariness
of all things, her active thoughts had dropped.
They dropped as her hands dropped, as she
gave up working, and for that moment of stillness
drew her chair to the fire. There was
nothing delightful to dwell upon in all that was
around and about her. But God, whom in her
voiceless way she trusted deeply, delivered the
tired mother from her cares for the moment,
and fed her with angels' food as she sat without
anything to say for herself, content by the
fire.

It was a moment before she realised what
had happened when the door opened and the visitor
swept in. She was not clever or ready, and
her first consciousness that some one had come
in was confused, so that she did not know how
to meet the emergency. She rose up hastily,
all her sweet thoughts dispersing ; and the children,

who saw a shadowy tall figure and did
not know what it was, shuffled to her side
and laid hold of her dress with a horrible
conviction that the ogre who eats children on
toast had come at last. Rich Mrs. Penton
sweeping in had command of the scene better
than poor Mrs. Penton had who was its principal
figure. She saw the startled movement, the shm
figure rising up from before the fire, in nervous
uncertainty what to say or do, and the sudden
retreat of the little ones from their place in the
foreground, lighted by the wait glow of the
fire, to the shelter of their mother's dress. The
whole group had a timid, alarmed look which
half-piqued and half-pleased Alicia. She rather
liked the sensation of her own imposing appearance
which struck awe, and yet was annoyed
that anyone should be afraid of her. She had
no doubt what to do ; she went forward into the
region of the firelight and held out a hand.

You don't remember me,' she said, ' or perhaps
it is only that you don't see me. I am
Alicia Penton. May I sit down here a little till
my cousin comes in ?'

Mrs. Russell Penton ! oh, sit down, please.
Will you take this chair, or will you come nearer
the fire? I am ashamed to have been so stupid,
but I have not many visitors, and I never
thought  will you take this chair, please V

You never thought that I should be one %
Oh, don't think I blame you for saying so. It is
my fault ; I have often felt it. I hope you will
let bygones be bygones now, and look upon meas
a friends

Horry,' said Mrs. Penton, ' run and tell
Martha to bring the lamp.' She did not make
any direct reply to her visitor's overture. ' I am
fond of sitting in the firelight,' she said. ' A
little moment when there is nothing to do, when
all is so quiet, is pleasant. But it is awkward
when anyone comes in, for we cannot see each
other. I hope Sir Walter is quite well,' she
added, after a momentary pause.

It was in the rich Mrs. Penton's heart to cry
out, 'Don't ask me about Sir Walter; you don't
hope he is well ; you wish he was dead, I know
you must, you must !' These words rushed to
her lips, but she did not say them. There was

in this mild interior no justification for such a
speech. The absence of light threw a veil upon
all the imperfections of the place, and there
was something in the gentle indifference of the
mistress of the house, the absence of all feeling
in respect to her visitor except a startled civility,
which somehow humbled and silenced the proud
woman. She had been, in spite of herself, excited
about this meeting. She had come in
with her heart beating, making overtures,
which she never would have made to a stranger.
She did not know what she expected: either
to be received with warm and astonished gratitude,
or to be held at arm's length in offence.
But this mild woman in the soft confusion of the
firelight gloom did neither  had not evidently
been thinking of her at all  had no feeling
about her one way or another. ]airs. Russell
Penton felt like one who had fallen from a
height. She blushed unseen with a hot sensation
of shame. To feel herself of so much less
consequence than she expected, was extraordinary
to her, a sensation such as she had
rarely felt before. She felt even that the pause

lie made before replying, which she herself felt
so much, and doing which so many things
went through her head, was lost upon the other,
who was pre-occupied about the lamp, and anxious
lest it should smell, and concerned with a
hundred other things.

My father is quite well,' said Alicia, with a
little emphasis ; ' I never saw him in better
health. It is not thought necessary for him, he
is so well, to go abroad this year.'

The maid was at the door with the lamp, and
there came in with her, exactly as Mrs. Penton
feared, an odour of paraffin, that all-pervading
unescapable odour which is now so familiar
everywhere. She scarcely caught what her
visitor said, so much more anxious was she
about this. And in her mind there arose the
anxious question, what to do ? Was it better
to say nothing about the smell, and hope that
perhaps it might not be remarked ? or confess
the matter and make a commotion, calling Mrs.
Penton's attention to it by sending it away?
Even if she did the latter she could not send

away the smell, which, alas ! was here, anyhow,
and would keep possession. She resolved desperately,
therefore, to take no notice, to hope,
perhaps, that it might not be remarked. This
presumption, though poor Mrs. Pent on was sofar
from suspecting it, completed the discomfiture
of the great lady who had made sure that
her visit would be a great event.

'I am very glad,' said the mistress of the
house at last, vaguely ; ' Edward has gone out
for a walk, he will be in directly, and I am
sure it will give him great pleasure to see you.
The girls are out too ; there is not very much
for them in the way of amusement at this time
of the year.'

And then there was a pause, for neither of the
ladies knew what to say. Mrs. Russell Penton
examined her hostess closely by the light of the
malodorous lamp. It was kinder to the poor
lady than daylight would have been, and to the
poor room, which, with the flickering firelight
rising and falling, and the shade over the lamp,
which left the walls and the furniture in a

flattering obscurity, showed none of their imperfections
to the stranger's eyes. And all
that was apparent in Mrs. Penton was that her
gown, which was of no particular colour, but
dark and not badly cut, hung about her slim
figure with a certain grace, and that the curing
twist of her hair, done up in that soft large
knot on the back of her head, suited her much
better than a more elaborate coiffure would
have done.

Rich Mrs. Penton looked closely at her poor
relation, but her scrutiny was not returned.
The thing that had now sprung into prominence
in the mind of the mistress of the house, was
whether Martha would bring tea in nicely, and
whether the cake would be found which was
kept for such great occasions, without an appeal
to herself for the keys. She was careful and
burdened about many things ; but in the very
excess of her anxieties was delivered from more
serious alarms. It did not occur to her to
trouble herself with the questions which the
children had asked each other so anxiously.

which Mr. Pent on was inquiring of himself with
a beating heart,

What could have brought Alicia Penton
here ?'

CHAPTER Iii.

THE YOUNG AND THE OLD.

There was, however, no lack of excitement
when the rest of the family came in. The girls
dazzled with the quick transition from the darkness
outside to the light within, their eyes
shining, their lips apart with breathless curiosity
and excitement, and a thrill of interest which
might have satisfied the requirements of any
visitor : and after a little interval their father,
pale, and somewhat breathless too, whose expectation
was not of anything agreeable, but
rather of some new misfortune, of which perhaps
his cousin had come to tell him. Edward
Penton did not pause to think that it was very

unlikely that Alicia would thus break in upon
his retirement in order to tell him of some misfortune.
The feeling was instinctive in his
mind because of long acquaintance dth defeat
and failure, that every new thing must mean
further trouble. He was always ready to encounter
that in his depressed way. He came
into the atmosphere which was tinged with the
smell of paraffin, the discomfort of which was
habitual to him, added to the undercurrent of
irritation in his mind, and with the feeling that
there was already a crowd of people in the
room, where probably no one was necessary but
himself.

Alicia Penton had long, long ceased to be an
object of special interest to him : nobody now
was of particular interest to Mr. Penton in that
or any sentimental way. The people who were
about him now either belonged to him, in
which case they gave him a great deal of
altogether inevitable trouble : or else they did
not belong to him, and were probably more or
less antagonistic  wanting things from him,
entertainment, hospitality, subscriptions, something

or other which he did not wish to give.
Such were the two classes into which the human
race was divided ; but if there was a debateable
ground between the two, a scrap of soil
upon which a human foot could be planted, Sir
Walter and his daughter were its possible inhabitants.
They belonged to him too in a
way ; they were antagonistic too  in a way.
Both the other halves of the world were more
or less united in them.

He came forward into the Hght, which, however,
revealed his knickerbockers and muddy
boots more distinctly than his face. ,

'It is a long time,' he said, ' since we have
met.'

'Yes, Edward, it is a long time; I have
been saying so to your wife. The girls have
grown up since I saw them last ; they were
little girls then, and now they are  grownup
'

When emotion reaches a high strain and becomes
impassioned, the power of expression is
increased, and eloquence comes; but on the
lower levels of feeling, suppressed excitement

and commotion of mind often find utterance in
the merest commonplace.

Yes, they are grown up  the boy too,' said
Mr. Penton, under the same spell.

She cast a glance upward to where, beyond
the lamp, on his mother's side of the table, Wat
appeared, a lengthy shadow, perhaps the most
uncongenial of all. She made a slight forward
inclination of her head in recognition of his presence,
but no more. The girls she had shown
a, certain pleasure in. They stood together,
with that pretty look of being but one which a
pair of sisters often have, so brightly cunous
and excited, scanning her with such eager eyes
that it would have been difficult not to respond
to their frank interest. But Mrs. Penton could
not tolerate Wat : his very presence was an
offence to her, and the instinctive way in which
he went over to his mother's side, and stood
there in the gloom looking at the visitor over
the shade of the lamp. She would have
none of him, but she turned with relief to the
girls.

I am ashamed to ask the question,' she said,

VOL. I. I

*bit which of you is my godchild? Yoii seem
about the same age.'

It was a vexation that it should be the other
one  the one who was like her mother, not the
impetuous darker girl whose eyes devoured
the great lady who was her cousin  who replied,


It is I who am Ally. There is only a year
between us. We are more together than any
of the others.'

Ally I' said Mrs. Russell Pension, with a little
scorn. 'And what is your name V

I am Anne.'

She should be Anna,' said her mother, * which
is far prettier : but she likes what is shortest
best. There are so many of them. None of
them have their full names. Some families
make a great stand on that  to give everyone
their full name.'

It is a matter of taste,' said the visitor, coldly.

She was doubly, but most unreasonably, annoyed
after her first moment of interest to find
that it was the wrong sister who was her godchild,
and that even she did not bear the name

that had been given her. It seemed a want of
respect, not only to herself, but to the family,
in which there had been Alicia for countless
years.

*I hope my uncle is well?' said Mr. Gentoo,
after another embarrassed pause. Sir Walter
was not his uncle, but it was a relic of the old
days, when he was a child of the house, that
the younger cousin was permitted to call the
elder so. ' I heard you were not going away
this year.'

''Xo; the doctors think he may stay at home,
as there is every prospect of a mild winter. Of
course, if it became suddenly severe we could
take him away at a moment's notice.'

Of course,' Edward Penton said. However
severe the weather might become, neither he
nor his could be taken away at a moment's
notice. He could not help feeling conscious of
the difference, but with a faint smile breaking
upon his depression. Alicia did not mean it,
he was sure, but it seemed curious that she
should put the contrast so very clearly before
him There was a little whispering going on

i2

between the mother and daughters about the
tea. Tea was a substantial meal at the Hook,
and the little ornamental repast at five o'clock
was unusual, and made a little flurry in the
household. Mrs. Penton had to give Anne certain
instructions about a little thin bread-and-butter
and the cake. She thought that Edward, who
was keeping up the conversation, screened off
these whisperings from his cousin's notice :
but as a matter of fact Alicia was keenly alive
to all that was taking place, and felt a sharper
interest in the anxiety about Martha's appearance
than in anything Edward was saying.
You still keep the villa at Cannes?' he went
on.

Yes ; up to this time it has been a necessity
for my father : but I have not seen him so
well for years.'

I am very glad to hear it,' Mr. Penton said,
with a little emphasis. He had to stand aside
as he spoke, for Martha arrived, rather embarrassed,
with her tray, for which there was no
habitual place : and the girls had to clear the
books and ornaments off a little table while she

"waited. He was used to these domestic embarrassments,
and it must be said for him that he
did the best he could to screen them even at
the sacrifice of himself. He drew a chair near
to his cousin and sat down, thus doing what he
could to draw her keen attention from these
details.

It is long since I have seen Penton,' he
said. * I hear you have made many improvements.'


Nothing that you Avould remark  only additions
to the comfort of the house. It used to be
rather cold, you will remember.'

I don't think I knew what cold was in those
old days,' he said, with a slight involuntary
shiver, for the door had just opened once more
to admit the cake, and a draught came in from
the always open hall.

We "shave had it now warmed throughout,'
said Mrs. Russell Penton, With a slight involuntary
smile ; ' and we are thinking of fitting it up
with electric light. My husband has a turn for
playing with science. It is a great deal of
trouble at first, but very little afterwards, I

believe ; and very convenient, without any of
the drawbacks of lamps or gas.'

She could not but turn her head as she spoke,
to the large crystal lamp upon the table, which
filled the room with something more than light.
The tea had been arranged by this time, and
poor Mrs. Penton had begun to pour it out, but
not yet was her mind disengaged from the many
anxieties involved  for the tea was poor. She
shook her head and made a little silent appeal
to the girls as she poured out the almost
colourless cup. And then there was a jug of
milk, but no cream. This necessitated another
whispering, and the swift despatch of Ally to
fetch what was wanted. Mrs. Russell Penton
looked on at all this, and took in every detail as
if it had been a little scene of a comedy enacted
for her amusement ; but there was in the amusement
an acrid touch. The smile was sharp, like
Ithuriel's spear, and cut all those innocent little
cobwebs away.

'I have no doubt you will make it very complete,'
Edward Penton said, with a sigh
There was an assumed proprietorship about all

she said, which was like cutting him off from the
succession, that only possibility which lay in his
future. And yet they could not cut hmi off, he
said to himself.

'Is this tea for me? How very kind I but I
never take it at this hour,' said Alicia, putting up
her gloved hand with a little gesture of refusal.
It smote, if not her heart, yet her conscience, a
little to see the look that passed between the
mother and the girls. Had Russell seen that
scene he would assuredly have retired into a
corner, and relieved himself with a whistle,
before asking for a cup and eating half the cake,
which was what he would have done regardless
of consequences. Rendered compunctious by
this thought alicia added hastily, ' You must
bring the gals up to see the house; they ought
to know it ; and I hope I may see more of
them in the time to come.'

Their mother, I have no doubt, will be
pleased,' said Edward Penton, vaguely.

Indeed, you must not think of me,' his wife
said ; she had not taken offence. It was not in
her mild nature to suppose that anyone could

mean to slight or insult her ; but she was a
little annoyed by the unnecessary waste of tea
I am a poor walker, you know, Edward ; and
always occupied with the children ; but I am
sure the girls would like it very much. It
would be very nice for them to make acquaintance
 Wat could walk up with them if you were
busy. Especially in the winter,' she said, with
a little conciliatory smile towards the great lady.
I am always looking out for a little change for
the girls.'

Then we shall consider that as settled,' said
Alicia. She rose, in all the splendour of her
velvet and furs, and the whole family rose with
her. A thought ran through their minds  a
little astonished shock  a question. Was it
possible that this was all she had come for ? It
was a very inadequate conclusion to the excitement
and expectation in all their minds. Mrs.
Penton alone did not feel this shock. She did
not think the result inadequate ; a renewal of
acquaintance, an invitation to the girls, probably
the opening to them of a door into society and
the great world.

She came forward with what to her was
warmth and enthusiasm.

It is very kind of you to have called,' she said,
I am truly grateful, for I make few calls myself,
and I can't wonder if I fall out of people's
recollection. It is a great thing for a womanlike
you to come out of your way to be kind to
Edward's little girls. I am very grateful to you,
and I will never forget it.'

Poor Mrs. Penton gave her rich namesake a
warm pressure of the hand, looking at her with
her mild, large-lidded grey eyes, lit up by a
smile which transformed her face. Not a shadow
of doubt, not the faintest cloud of consciousness
that Alicia's motive had been less than angelic,
was in her look or in her thoughts.

Rich Mrs. Penton faltered and shrank before
this look of gratitude. She knew that, far from
deserving it, there had been nothing but contempt
in her thoughts towards this simple woman
who had been to her like a bit of a comedy. She
withdrew her hand as quickly as possible from
that grateful clasp.

You give me credit  that I don't deserve,'

she said. ' I  I came to speak to my cousin on
business. It was really a  I won't call it a selfish
motive, that brought me. But it will give
me real pleasure to see the girls.'

To divine the hidden meaning of this little
speech, which was entirely apologetic, occupied
the attention of the anxious family suddenly
pushed back into eagerness again by the intimation
of her real errand. It was not all for
nothing, then ! It was not a mere call of
civility ! Mr. Penton, who had felt something
like relief when she rose, consoled by the thought
that there could not at least be any new misfortune
to intimate to him, fell again into that
state of melancholy anticipation from which he
had been roused, while the young ones bounded
upwards to the height of expectation. Something
was coming  something new ! It did not
much matter to them what it was. They looked
on with great excitement while their father conducted
his cousin across the hall to his book-room,
as it was called. They were not given
to fine names at Penton Hook. It had been

called the library in former days. But it was a
little out at elbows, like the rest of the house 
the damp had affected the bindings, the gilding
was tarnished, the Russia leather dropping to
pieces, a smell of mustiness and decay, much
contended against, yet indestructible, was in the
place. And it was no longer the library', but
only the book-room. The door of the dra-ing-
room being left open, the family watched with
interest indescribable the two figures crossing
the hall. Mrs. Russell Pent on, though she had
not been there for so many years, knew her way,
which particular interested the girls greatly, and
opened a new vista to them into the past.
Mrs. Penton, for her part, knew well enough all
about Alicia, but she was not jealous. She
shivered slightly as she saw the lady's skirt
sweep the halL

Oh, Anne,' she whispered, ' tell Martha to
bring a cloth and wipe it. A velvet dress !
You children, with your wet feet, you are enough
to break anyone's heart. What are the mats
put there for, I should like to know V

Ob, what do you think of her, mother ? Did
you like her? Don't you think she meant to be
kind ? Do you think we must go V

Certainly you must go,' said Mrs. Penton.
What do I think of her ? This is not the first
time I have seen Ahcia Penton, that you should
ask me such a question. Yes, yes, you must
go. You ought to know that house better
than any house in the country, and it is
only right that you should first go into society
there.'

Do you think Cousin Alicia will ask us to
parties? Do you think she really meant 
really, without thinking of anything else  to be
kind to Ally and me ?'

Anne, I am sorry that you should take such
notions. What object could she have but kindness,'
said Mrs. Penton, with mild conviction,
for coming here ? It is all very well to talk of
business with your father. Yes, no doubt she
has business with your father, or she would not
have said so ; but I am very sure she must have
suffered from the estrangement. I always
thought she must suffer. Men do not think of

these things, but Tromen do. I feel sure that
she has talked her father over at last, and that
we are all to be friends again. Sir Walter is an
old man ; he must want to make up differences.
What a dreadful thing it would be to die without
making it up I'

Was there any real quarrel ?' said Watching
forward with his hands in his pockets.
She may be kind enough, mother, that fine
lady of yours, but she does not like me.'

How can she know whether she likes you or
not ? She doesn't know you, Wat.'

She hates me all the same. I have never
done anything to her that T know of. I suppose
I did wrong to be born.'

If it were not you it would be some one else,'
said Mrs. Penton ; ' but, children ! oh, don't talk
in this hard way. Think how her brothers died,
and that she has no children. And the house she
loves to go away from her, and nothing to be
hers ! 1 do not think I could bear it if it was
me. Make haste, Anne, oh, make haste and get
Martha to wipe up the hall. And, Horry, you
may as well have the thin bread-and-butter. If

I had only known that Mrs. Russell Penton never
took tea  '

About this failure Mrs. Penton Alas really
concerned; it was not only a waste of the tea
and of that nice bread-and-butter (which Horry
enjoyed exceedingly), but it was a sort of a
sham, enacted solely for the benefits the visitor,
which was objectionable in other points of view
besides that of extravagance. It gave her a
sense of humiliation as if she had been masquerading
in order to deceive a stranger who was
too quick of wit to be deceived. But Mrs. Pen-ton
neither judged her namesake, nor was suspicious
of her, nor was she even very curious as
the children were, as to the subject of the interview
which was going on in the book-room.
She feared nothing from it, nor did she expect
anything. She was not ready to imagine that
anything could happen. Sir Walter might die,
of course, and that would make a change ; but
she had Mrs. Russell Penton's word for it that
Sir Walter was better than usual ; and in the
depth of her experience of that routine of common

life which kept on getting a little worse,
but had never been broken by any siii-piising
incidents, she had Httle faith in things happening.
She felt even that she would not be surprised
for her part if Sir Walter should never
die. He was eighty-five, and he might live to
be a hundred. Though they had not met for
years, she saw nothing extraordinary in the fact
that Alicia Penton had come to talk over some
business matters with her cousin. It was partly
indolence of mind, and partly because she had
so much that was real to occupy her, that she
had no time for imaginary cases. And so, while
the girls hung about the doors in excitement,
unable to settle to anything, curious to see
their great relation pass out again, and to
watch her getting into her carriage, and pick up
any information that might be attainable about
the object of her mission, Mrs. Penton, with a
word of rebuke to their curiosity, took Horry
upstairs to the nursery and thence retired to
her own room to make her modest little toilette
for the evening. There was no dinner to

dress for, but the mother of the household
thought it was a good thing as a rule and example
that she should put on a different gown
for tea.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE PROPOSAL.

i\LiciA was a little subdued when she found
herself in the old library, the room she had
known so Avell in other circumstances. The air
of decay, the unused books which she had borrowed
and read and talked over, Edward being
a little more disposed that way than her
brothers, and ready to give her advice about
her reading, and receive with reverence her
comments which the others took no interest in,
impressed her in spite of herself. Her eyes
turned to the corner in which there had been
a collection of the poets more accessible and
readable than any that existed at Penton, where
VOL. I. K

the books were all of a ponderous kind. They
were still there, the same little volumes, which
it had been so easy to can about, which had
been brought from the Hook in Edward's
pocket, which she had taken with her in the
boat and read in the shady corner under the
trees among the water-lilies. She could see
they were still there, the binding a little tarnished,
the line broken, as if several volumes
were lost or absent. Who read them now
She gave but one glance and saw everything,
then turned her back upon that corner. There
was a table in the window which had not
been there formerly, a table covered with
books and papers such as she was sure Edward
Penton did not amuse himself with. It would
be the boy whose name had not been mentioned,
whom she had taken no notice of, yet of whom,
with a jealous, angry consciousness, she had felt
the presence through all.

You have made few changes,' she said, involuntarily,
as she turned the chair he had
placed for her half round, so as not to see the
shelf with its range of little volumes. The

book-room was perhaps the most comfortable in
the house, but for that faint mustiness. The
walls were well lined with books. It had been
a good collection twenty years ago, and, though
there had been few additions made, it was still
a good collection, and the fading of the gilding
and a little raggedness of binding here and there
did not injure the appearance of the well-covered
walls.

mr. Penton lighted the two candles on the
Writing-table, which seemed to add two little
inquisitive eldritch spectators, blinking their little
flames at the human actors in this drama, and
watching all they did and said.

No, there are no changes to speak of, I
have had other things to think of than making
changes,' he said, with a little abruptness, perhaps
thinking that she was making a contrast
between the unalterable circumstances of his
poverty and all that had been done in the great
house. But she had no such meaning, nor did
she understand the tone of almost reproach in
which he spoke.

You must have a gi-eat deal to do, with your

k2

family ; but there are cares which many people
comet as happiness.'

I am making no complaint,' he said.

And then there was a pause. There had
been struck a Avrong note which rang jarring
into the air, and made it more difficult to begin
again.

You must have been surprised,' she said, ' to
find me here to-day.'

I don't know that I was surprised ; perhaps
it was more surprising, if I may speak my mind,
Alicia, that so long a time has passed without
seeing you here. I never harmed you, that 1
know.'

'No,' she said, 'you never harmed us; it
has been a miserable mistake altogether. For
years past I have felt it to be so ; but we are
the slaves of our own mistakes. I never seemed
to have the courage to take the first step to
make it right.'

She had neither meant to say this, nor in cold
blood would she have allowed it to be true ;
but she was carried away by the subtle influence
of the familiar place, by the sight of

the books she used to borrow, and many an
indefinable recollection and influence besides.

He gave a little short laugh.

That is the second time to-night,' he said,
that I have heard the same thing said.'

If she had but known who the other was who
had said it, the old man breaking stones, who
had been so glad of his twopence I Mr. Penton
could not restrain the brief comment of that
laugh.

It does not matter who says it,' said Alicia,
it is true. A thing is done in passion, in
misery, and then it is hard to descend from our
pride, or to acknowledge ourselves wrong. And
you will think, perhaps,' she added, quickly, with
rising colour, ' that it is a selfish motive which
brings me here to-day.'

Edward Penton shook his head.

A selfish motive would mean that I could be
of use to you : and I don't think that is very
probable,' he said.

Mrs. Russell Penton coloured still more.

Edward,' she said, faltering a Httle, ' it is
curious, when there is an object on which one

has sot one's heart, how one is led on to do
things that only in the doing appear in their
true colours. I have let you think I came to
renew old friendship  to see your children,
your girls.'

She grew more and more agitated as she went
OD, and there came out in her a hundred tones
and looks of the old Alicia, who had seemed to
him to have no connection with this mature,
dignified, self-important woman  looks and
tones which moved him as the old books in the
corner, and all the associations of the place, had
moved her.

It does not matter why you have come ; I am
glad you have come, anyhow ; and if I can do
anything  ' he made a pause and laughed
again, this time at himself. ' It doesn't seem
very likely, looking at you and at me ; but you
know I was always your faithful servant,' he
said.

There is only one thing I have to say for myself,
Edward  I would not allow the proposal to
be made by anyone but me.'

What is it V he asked. There was a proposal

then, and it was something to benefit her !
Edward Penton's bosom swelled with perhaps
the first pleasurable sense of his own position
which he had felt for years. Penton had always
been an excitement to him, but there had been
little pleasure in it. For a moment, however,
now, he felt himself the old, the young Edward
Penton, who had been the faithful servant of
Alicia. He could not imagine anything which
he could have it in his power to do for her, but
still less could he imagine anything which he
would refuse.

She went on with a hesitation which was very
far from being natural to her.

You know,' she said, ' that when my father
dies, which is an event that cannot be far distant,
1 shall have to give up  the only home 1 have
ever known.'

His attention was fully aroused now. He
looked at her, across the gleam of the inquisitive
candles, with a startled look. Was she going to
ask him to give up his inheritance ? He was too
much sui-prised to speak.

You will think this an extraordinary beginning

: but it is true. I have never lived anywhere
else. My marriage, you know, fortunately,
has made no difference. Of course I am my
father's heir in everything but what is entailed.
It has occurred to us  we have thought that

perhaps '

AVhat have you thought, Alicia?' he cried,
with a sudden sharp remonstrance in his tone :

that I was just, as in former times, ready for

anything that you What have you thought ?

that I was in the same position as of old  that
there was no one to consult, no one to consider
except my devotion to you V

You mistake me altogether,' she crie

Your devotion to me  which no doubt is ended
long ago  was never taken into consideration at
all. We thought of an entirely different motive
when we talked it over, my father and I. You
will remember that I am only asking a question,
Edward. 1 wanted to ask only if a proposal
might be made to you, that was all.'

And what was the motive which you supr
used likely to move me V he said.

He had risen up from his seat, and came and

stood by the mantelpiece, leaning ou it, and
looking down upon her. There was a great
commotion in his mind  a commotion of the old
and of the new. He had grown soft and tender
a few minutes before, feeling himself ready todo
anything for her which a lady could ask of a
man. But now, when it appeared to him that
she had gone far beyond that sphere, and was
about to ask from him the sacrifice of everything
 his property, his inheritance, the fortune
of his children  a sudden hot fountain of indignation
seemed to have risen within the man.
He felt as the knight did in the poem when his
lady lightly threw her glove among the lions 
an impulse to give her what she asked, to fling
it in her face, doing her behest in contempt of
the unwomanly impulse which had tempted her
to strain her power so far. This was how he
felt. No reasonable sentiment of self-defence,
but a burning temptation to take his heirship,
his hopes, all that made the future tolerable, and
fling them with an insult in her face.

Edward,' she said, * I came to you in confidence
that you would hear me  that you would

let me speak plainly without offence : I mean
none,' she said, with agitation. ' But we have
both come to a reasonable age, and surely we
may talk to each other without wounding each
other  about circumstances which everybody
can see.'

Speak freely, Alicia. I only want to know
what you wish, and what there is in me to
justify the proposal, whatever it may be, that
you have come to make.'

1 have began wrong,' she said, with a gesture
of disappointment. * It is difficult to find
the right words. Will you be angry if I say it
is no secret that you  that we  for heaven's
sake don't think I mean to hurt you  plainly,
that I, with all my father can leave, will be in a
better position for keeping up Penton than you
who are the heir-at-law.'

He stood for some time With his arm on the
mantelpiece making no answer, looking down
at the faint redness of a fire which had almost
burnt out.

So that's all,' he said at last, with the tremulous
note of a sudden laugh; and drawing a

chair close up to it, began to gather together
the scraps of half-consumed wood into a blaze.
All that he produced was a very feeble momentary
glimmer, which leaped up and then died out.
He threw down th poker with another short
laugh. * Significant,' he said, ' symbolical ! so
that is all, Alicia? You are sure you want no
more?'

You have not heard me out ; you don't understand.
Edward, I know the first effect must
be painful, but every word you will listen to will
lessen that impression. I am, if you will remember,
a little older than you are.'

We were born, I think, in the same year.'

That makes a woman much older. I told
you so when it meant more. And I am a
woman, more feeble of constitution than you
are  not likely to live so long.'

On the contrary, if you will allow me to interrupt
you ; women, I believe, as a rale, are
longer-lived than men.'

She drew back with a pained and irritated
look.

You make me feel like a lawyer supporting

a weak case. It was not in this way that I
wanted to talk it over with you, Edward.'

'To talk over the sacrifice of everything I
have ever looked to  my birthright, and the
prospects of my children. This is rather a large
affair to be talked over between you and me
after five-o'clock tea, Alicia, over a dying fire.'

Then,' she said, * it would have been better
I had not meddled at all, as my father always
said. He thought it should have been made a
business proposal only, through a solicitor. But
I  I, like a foolish woman  remembering that
we had once been dear friends, and feeling that
I had been guilty of neglect, and perhaps unkindness
 I would not have anything said till
I had come myself, till I had made my little
overture of reconciliation, till I '

If there is to be frankness on one side there
should be frankness on both. Till you had put
forth the old influence, which once would have
made me do anything  give up anything  to
please you.'

You said,' she cried, provoked and humiliated,
 not five minutes since, though I did not wish

it  never thought of it  that sou were roy faithful
servant still !'

Yes,' he said ; ' and do you know what I
should like to do now? You have come to
ask me for my inheritance as you might ask fora
flower out of my garden  if there were any !
I should like to fling you your Penton into your
apron  into your face  and see you can it island
point at you, like  you were always fond of
poetry', and you will remember  the fellow that
jumped among the lions for a glove : only a
glove  only his life, don't you know I'

It was not often that Edward Penton gave
way to passion, but it was brutal this that he
said: but for a moment he had lost all control
of himself.

She rose up hurriedly from her chair.

That was no true man !' she cried. ' Supposing
that the woman was a fool too, she used
him only according to his folly, to show how
false he was.' She paused again, breathless,
her heart beating with excitement and indignation.


I am not asking you for your inheritance ; I

came to ask yon  whether an arrangement might
be proposed to yon which should be for your advantage
as well as mine. Let ns speak frankly,
as you say. I am not a girl, to be driven away
by an insult, which comes badly  oh, very badly !
from yon, Edward. If I have wounded you,
you have stung me bitterly ; so let us be quits.'
She looked at him with a smile of pain. ' You
have hit hardest, after all; you ought to be
pleased with that's

I beg your pardon, Alicia,' he said.

Oh, it is not necessary. It was business, and
not sentiment, that brought me here. x\nd this
is the brutal truth, Edward  like what you
have just said to me. You are poor and I am
well off. Penton would be a millstone round
your neck ; you could not keep it up. Whereas
to me it is my home  almost the thing I love
best. Will yon come to terms with us to set
aside the entail and let me have my home ?
The terms shall be almost what you like. It
can be done directly. It will be like realising a
fortune which may not be yours for years. I
ask no gift. Do you think I am not as proud as

you rare ? I would not ask you for a flower out
of your garden, as you say, much less your property
 your inheritance I Ah, your inheritance !
which twenty years ago, when we used to be
here together, was no more likely to be yours  I
If we begin to talk of these things where shall
we end, I wonder?' she added, with another pale
and angry smile. ' You understand now what
1 mean ? And I have nothing more to say.'

Wait a moment,' he said : ' I am not sure
that I do understand you now. It is not what
1 thought, apparently, and I beg your pardon.
I thought it was something that would be
between you and me. But if I hear right it is
a business transaction you propose  something
to be done for an equivalent  a bargain  a sale
and barter a '

Yes, that is what I mean ; perhaps my father
was right, and the solicitors were the people to
manage it, not you and me  '

To manage it  or not to manage it, as may
turn out. Yes, I think that would be the better
way. These sort of people can say what they
like to each other and it never hurts, whereas

you and I  Are you really going? I hope
you are very well wrapped up, for the night is
cold. But for this little squabble, which is a
pity, which never ought to have been '

'I cannot think, Edward, that it was my
fault.'

They say that ladies always think that,' he
said, with a smile, ' otherwise this first visit after
how long is it?  went off fairly well, don't
you think? At forty-five, with a wife and
children, a man is no longer ready to throw
anything away ; but otherwise when it comes
to business '

I was very foolish not to let it be done in
the formal way,' she said with an uneasy blush
and intolerable sense of the sarcasm in his tone.
But she would not allow herself to remain under
this disadvantage. ' Shall I tell my father that
you will receive his proposal and give it your
consideration V

'My consideration? Surely; my best consideration,'
he replied, with still the same look
of sarcastic coolness, ' which anything Sir
Walter Penton suggests would naturally command

from his  successor. I cannot use a
milder word than that. Mj position he added,
with gi'avitj, ' is not one which I sought or had
any hand in bringing about : therefore I can
have no responsibility for the changes that have
happened in the last twenty years.'

'It is I who must beg your pardon now.
You are quite right, of course, and there was no
fault of yours. Good-night and good-bye. I
hope you will at least think of me charitably if
we should not meet again.'

We shall certainly, I hope, meet again,' he
said, opening the door for her. ' The girls Thrill
not forget your invitation to them. They have
never seen Penton, and they take an interest,
which you will not wonder at '

Oh, 1 don't wonder  at that or anything,*
she added, in a lower tone ; and, as ill-luck
would have it, Wat, standing full in the light
of the lamp which lit the hall, tall in his youthful
awkwardness, half antagonistic, half anxious
to recommend himself, stood straight before her,
so that she could not, without rudeness, refuse
his attendance to the door where the carriage

VOL. I. L

lamps were shining and the bays pawing impatiently.
She gave his father a look of mingled
misery and deprecation as she went out of sight.
He alone understood why it was she could not
bear the sight of his boy. But though her eyes
expressed this anguish, her mouth held another
meaning.

You will hear from Mr. Rochford in a day or
two,' she said, as e drove away.

He sent her back a smile of half sarcastic
acquiescence still ; but then Edward Penton
went back to his library and shut himself in,
and disregarded all the appeals that were made
to him during the next hour, to come to tea.
First the bell : then Ally tapping softly, ' Tea is
ready.' Then Anne's quicker summons, 'Mother
wants to know if we are to wait for you V
Then the little applicant, whom he Alas least
able to resist, little Mary, drumming very low
down upon the lower panels of the door, with a
little song of ' Fader ! fader !'

To all this Mr. Penton turned a dull ear. He
had been angry  he had been cut to the quick :
that his poverty should be thus thrown back

upon him  that he should be expected to make
merchandise of his inheritance, to give hip for
money the house of his fathers, the only fit
residence for the head of the family ! All this
gave a sharp and keen pang, and roused every
instinct of pride and self-assertion. But when
the thrill of solitude and reason fell on all that
band of suddenly unchained demons, and he
thought of the privations round him  the
shabbiness of the house ; the damp ; the poor
wife, who could not now at all hold up her
head among the county people ; the girls, who
were little nobodies and saw nothing ; Wat,
whose young life was spoiled : and Osy  Osy I
about whom some determination must be come
to. To see a way out of all that and not to
accept it ; for pride's sake to shut up, not only
himself, that was a small matter, but the children,
to poverty ! The fire went out ; the inquisitive
candles banked and spied ineffectually, making
nothing of the man who sat there wrapped up
within himself, his face buried in his hands. He
was chilled almost to ice when his wife stole in
and drew him away to the fire in the dravang-

l2

room, from which the young ones withdrew to
make place for him, with looks full of wonder
and awe. And then it was, when he had warmed
himself and the ice had melted, then he drew
the family council together, and laid before
them, old and young, the proposal which Alicia
Penton had come to make.

CHAPTER IX.

FAMILY COUNSELS.

Mr. Penton drew his chair towards the fire,
which was not a usual thing for him to do.
When he felt chilly he went to the book-room,
where in the evening there was always a log
burning. In the drawing-room it was the rule
that nobody should approach the fire too closely;
Mr. Penton said it was not good for the children,
it gave them bad habits, and it scorched their
cheeks and injured their eyes. The moral of
which probably was that, as there were so
many of them, they could not all get near it,
and therefore all had to hold back.

But this evening everything was out of rule.

The little ones had been sent to bed. The
basket of stockings was pushed aside on the
table. Mrs. Penton indeed, unable to bear that
breach of use and wont, had taken a stocking
out of it furtively and pulled it up on her arm.
It was a grey stocking, with immense healthy
holes the size of half-a-crown. She could not
get at her needle and worsted without disturbing
the family parliament, but at least she could
measure the holes and decide how best to approach
them, and from what side. Walter had
placed himself on the other side of the fire,,
opposite his father, feeling instinctively that his
interests must be specially in question ; the girls
filled up the intervals between their mother and
Wat on the one side, their father on the other.
The fire had been stirred into a blaze and
danced cheerfully upon all the young faces.
The lamp with its smell of paraffin was put
aside too, as if it were being punished and put in
the corner, for which vindictive step, considering
how it smelt and smoked, there was good
cause.

You will understand,' said Mr. Penton, ' that

the visit we have just received must have had
some special motive

I don't see why you should be so sure of
that, Edward,' said Mrs. Penton, ' unless she
said something. It might be just civility. Why
not?'

'It was not just civility; I knew that from
the first.'

My dear, perhaps you know your own family
best : but if it had been one of mine I should
have thought it quite natural : to see the children,
and hear how we are getting on.'

To this ]\lr. Penton made no reply ; the idea
of some one coming to see how he and his
family were ' getting on ' did not gratify him as
perhaps it ought to have done.

I think,' said Ally, softly, ' that Aunt Ahcia
came out of kindness, papa.'

To herself, I suppose,' he said, quickly ; then
added, ' From her point of view it might appear
kindness to us too.'

There was again a pause, and they all
waited with growing curiosity to know what it
was.

Mr. Penton sat in silence, balancing himself in
Lis chair, knitting his brows as he gazed into
the fire. Mrs. Penton pulled the stocking farther
up ripon her arm and made a searching study of
the holes.

You all know,' he said at length, ' that Pen-ton
has been a long time in our family, and that
I am the heir of entail.'

At this Walter moved a little, almost impatiently,
in his chair, with a quick start, which
he restrained at once, as if he would have interfered.
ind he did feel disposed to interfere
to say that it was he who was the heir of entail.
His father's priority of course was understood,
but it seemed hardly worth while to insist
upon it. Nevertheless, after the first impulse
Walter restrained himself.

'I,' said his father, rather sharply, with a
certain comprehension and resentment of the
impulse, of which, however, he was not minded
to take any notice, ' am the heir of entail. It is
tied down upon me, and can't, in the nature of
things, go to anyone else.'

Unless the law were to be changed,' interrupted
Anne, remembering too well the discussion
of the morning.

He waved his hand with an expression of
impatience.

We need not take any such hazard into consideration
; it is most improbable, and quite out
of the question. As things are, I am the heir of
entail. That has been, I don't doubt, a thorn
in Sir Walter s flesh. He can't alienate an acre,
nor at his time of life, in honour, cut down a
tree.'

I have always said it was hard upon him,'
Mrs. Penton observed, in an undertone.

They all gave her a look  the look of partisans,
to whom any objection is an offence  all
except Anne, who kept up an attitude of impartiality
throughout the whole.

1 don't know why he has put off so long if
he had the mind to make such an offer. If it
had been further off, perhaps I might have been
more tempted ; but as it is  Alicia wants me to
join with her father and break the entail.'

The female part of the committee did not immediately

see the weight of this statement. It
took some time to make them understand : but
Walter saw it in a moment, and sprang to his
feet in quick resentment.

Father, of course you will not listen to it fora
moment !' he cried.

To break the entail V said the mother ; ' but
I thought nothing could do that, Edward.'

Except,' said Anne, * a change in the law.'

There is no question of any change in the
law,' said Mr. Penton, angrily. ' How should
there be a change in the law ? None but demagogues
or socialists would ever think of it. The
law is too strong in England. As for empiric
and revolutionaries  ' He snapped his fingers
with hot contempt. The suggestion made him
angry, although he had himself dwelt upon it
in the morning. Then he came back to the
real matter : ' Yes, there is one way in which it
can be done ; that is what they want me to do.
If I joined with Sir Walter in taking certain
steps, the entail could be broken : and Penton
would go to Alicia, which it appears is his
desire.'

Father !' Walter cried.

It was such an unspeakable blow to him,
striking at the very root of his personal importance,
his dreams, his prospects, everything
that was his, that the young man was,
what did not always happen, the first to
seize upon this terrible idea. He could quot
keep his seat, but stood up tremulous, leaning
upon the mantelpiece, looking down with an
angry alarm at all their faces, lighted up by the
fire. It seemed to Walter that in this slowness
to understand there was something of the indifference
which those who are not themselves
affected so often show in the threatening of a
calamity. Their unawakened surprised looks,
not gi-applying with the question, had a half-maddening
effect upon him. They did not
care ! it did not affect them.

*But, Edward, why should you do that  to
please Sir AValter  to please  your cousin ?
Well, I should always like to keep on good
teiTQS with my relations, and do what I could
for them ; but to give up what we have been
looking forward to so long  and the only thing

-we have to look forward to ! I am sure,' said
Mrs. Penton, tears getting into her voice, ' I
should be the last person to say anything
against relations, or make displace, but when
you think that it is the only provision we have
for the children  the only  and when you remember
that there's Walter  ' She stopped,
unable to go any further, bewildered, not knowing
what to think.

'Father does not mean that. It is not that,
whatever it may mean.'

Of course I do not mean that. You take up
all sorts of absurd ideas and then you think I
have said it. Sir Walter and Alicia are my relations,
it is true, but they don't set up a claim on
that score, neither am I such a fool. Try to
understand me reasonably, Annie. Property is
different from everything else ; you don't give up
your rights to please anybody. Here's how it
is. When the heir is willing to step in and
break the entail, of course he has compensation
for it. Sir Walter is a very old man, the property
in all human probability will soon be in my
hands, therefore my compensation would be at

a heavy rate. They are rich enough,' said Mr.
Penton, in a sort of smile, 'they could afford
that.'

They would give father the money,' said
Anne, in a way she had before found effectual in
clearing her mother's ideas ; ' and he would let
them have the land.'

Edward, is that what it means ?'

Yes, strictly speaking ; if you put feelings
and pride and everything to one side, and the
thought of one's family, find of all we've looked
forward to for years.'

You can t put them to one side,' cried young
Walter, sharply, in the keen, harsh, staccato
tones of bitterness and fear. ' You can't ! Xo
money would make up for them, nothing could
be put in their place. Father, you feel that as
well as If

/ feel that as well as you ! To whom are you
speaking ? What are you in the matter ?  a boy
that may never that might never  whereas I've
thought of it all my life ; it has been hanging
within reach of my hand, so to speak, for years.
I've built everything on it. And a bit of a boy

asks me if I feel that  like him ! Like him. !
What is he that he should set himself as a model
tower

'Oh, father !' cried Ally, with her hand upon
his arm.

Of course,' said Mrs. Penton, in her quiet
voice, quenching this little eddy of passion far
more effectually than if she had taken notice of
it, 'that makes a great difference. They
would give you the money, and you would let
them keep the land ? There is justice in that,
Edward. I do not say it is a thing to be
snapped at at once, although we do want money
so much. But still it is quite just, a thing to be
calmly considered. I wish you would tell us
now exactly what your cousin wants, and what
she would give instead of it. It is like selling
a property. I am sure I for one should not
mind selling this property if we could oQi a
good price for it ; and, as we have no associations
with Penton and have never lived there,
nor '

Mother !' Could the old house have been
moved by hot human breath as by a wind of

inclination, it would have shook from parapet
to basement ; but Mrs. Pent on, on her deep
foundation of sense and reason, was not shaken
at all. She took no notice of the outcry.

'No, we can have no associations with
it,' she said, calmly. ' 1 have dined there
three or four times in my life, and the children
have never been there at alL It would not
matter much to us if it were to be swallowed
up in an earthquake, so long as its value
remained.'

The girls did not take their mother's prosaic
view. Each on her side, they consoled and
smoothed down the gentlemen  the young heir
hot with the destruction of hopes that were
entirely visionary, that had never had any reality
in them  and the immediate heir, to whom this
one thing was the sole touch of romance or of
expectation in life.

'Tell us about it, father,' and 'Oh, Wat,
be quiet ; nothing's done yet !' was what they
said.

Your mother takes it all very easy. She
was not born a Penton,' said the father. ' Yes,

I'll tell you all about it, though she's settled it
already without any trouble, you see. It is not
so simple to me. Women can be more brutal
than anyone when they take it in that way.
Alicia was disposed to see it in the same light.
She said she had been born there, and never had
lived anywhere else, so that her feeling to it
must be quite different from mine. Different
from mine ! to whom it has been an enchantment
all my life.'

'What your cousin said was quite natural,
Edward. I should have said the same thing
myself.'

You have just done so, my dear,' he said,
with a sarcasm which went quite wide of its
mark. 'Yes, I'll tell you all about it, children.
Alicia and her father, it appears, have been
thinking it over. They think  they know, to
be sure, for who can have any doubt on the
subject ?  that I am poor. I am a poor man,
with a number of children. A man in my
position cannot do what he likes, but what he
must. I need money to bring you all up, to
set you out in the world. Eight of you, you

know ; that's enough to crush any man,' he
said.

The girls looked at each other with a look
which was half-indignant, yet half-guilty.
They felt that somehow they were to blame for
being there, for crushing their father. Walter
had no such sensation, but yet he recognised
the truth of the complaint. He was the eldest,
a legitimate, even a necessary party to this
question, since but for his existence, in his own
opinion, his father's heirship would have been
unimportant. But the others were, he allowed
to himself, so much ballast on the other side,
completing the question, making a difficulty
where there should be none.

I should have thought,' he said, indignantly,
that Su' AValter would have seen how mean it
was to take advantage  what a poor sort of
thing it was to trade upon a man's disabilities 
upon his burdens  upon what he cannot throw
off, nor get rid of.'

Mrs. Penton's mind had been travelling
meanwhile upon its own tranquil yet anxious
way.

VOL. I. M

*Was there any offer made yon, Edward'?
Did lie say how much they thought ?  wouldn't
that be one of the first things to think of '? We
might be tronbhng ourselves all for nothing, if
they where intending to take advantage, as
Walter says. But then, how should Walter
know ? They would never take him into their
confidence. Was any sum mentioned ? for that
would show whether they meant to take advantage.
I never heard they were that sort of
people. Your cousin Alicia has the name of
being proud, but as for taking advantage '

Can't you see,' he cried, with irritation, ' that
you are driving me distracted, going over andover
one set of words. Walter's a fool. Do you
suppose the Pentons are cheats ? To make such
an osier at all was taking an  If we had been
as well off as they are they never would have
ventured. That's all about it. I never supposed
they would try to outwit me in a bargain.' After
this little blaze of energy he sank into his more
usual depression. ' If it hadn't been for you and
the children of course I shouldn't have listened,
not for a moment.'

'Why should you do it for us, father?
We don't cost so much. Wo could go away
and be governesses rather than be such a
burden !'

Mrs. Penton put down the hand upon which
she had drawn the stocking to give Anne a warning
touch, while her father took no notice except
with a passing glance.

*A man can do himself no justice when he's
weighted down on every side. It has always
been my luck. I wonder, for my part, now
that they have had the assurance to propose it
at all, why they didn't propose it years and
years ago.'

What a thing it would have been !' said Mrs.
Penton ; * many an anxiety it would have saved
us, Edward. Why, it would make you a rich
man ! We have always looked forward so to
Penton, and nobody ever supposed Sir Walter
would live till eighty-five; but I have never
thought of it as such a paradise. For, in the first
place, it would want a great deal of money to
keep it up.'

Yes, it would take money to keep it up.'

'Everybody says it is kept up beautifully.
You never could reconcile yourself to neglecting
anything, and hearing people say how different
it was in Sir Walter's time. Then the house
is such a grand house, and it would come to us
empty or nearly empty. Oh, I've thought it
all over so often. Gentlemen don't go into these
matters as a woman does. Of course, your
cousin Alicia would take away all the beautiful
furniture that suits the house. Her father
would leave it to her; for that's not entailed, you
know. We should go into it empty, or
with only a few old sticks ; what should we do
with "the things we've got, in Pennons She
looked round with an affectionate contempt at
the well-worn chairs, the table in the middle,
the old dingy curtains with no colour left in
them. ' The first thing we should have to do
would be to furnish from top to bottom, and
where should we find the money to do that V

Mr. Penton did not say anything. He made
a little impatient wave of his hand, but he did
not contradict or even attempt to stop her soft,
slow, gentle voice as she went on.

And then the gardeners ! they are a kind of
army in themselves. To pay them all then-wages
every week, the men that are in the
houses, and the men that are outside, and the
people at the lodges, and the carpenters, and the
men that roll the lawns; where should we
find the money ? If we could have the rents
and go on having here of course I don't say anything
against it, we should be rich. But to live
at Penton we should just be as poor as we are
now  as poor but much grander  obliged to
give parties and keep horses and dress. If 1
ever had ventured to tell you my opinion,
Edward, I should have told you, instead of
looking forward to Penton it has been my
terror night and day. I always thought,' she
continued, after a pause, * that I should try to
persuade you to let it, until, at least, we had a
little money to the good.'

To let Penton !' The cry burst from them
all in every variation of tone, indignant, angry,
astonished. To let  Penton I Penton, which
had been the golden dream of fancy, the paradise
of hope, the one thing which consoled everybody,

from Mr. Pent on down to Holy, for all
that went amiss in life.

'Well?' said the mother, lifting her mild
eyes, looking at them for a moment. * I have
always thought so, but I would not say it, for
what was the use '{ You all worship Penton,
both you and the children. But I never was
taken in by it. I have always seen that, however
pleasant it might be, and beautiful and all
that  and everybody's prejudices in its favour
we never could keep it up.'

She turned round, having delivered her soul,
and drew her basket towards her, in which
were her needles and the worsted for her darning.
She had settled exactly how these big
holes were to be attacked, how the threads of
the stocking went, and that it must be done in
an oblique line to keep the shape. Without a
little consideration beforehand neither stockings
can be mended nor anything else done. She
had said her say, and no doubt, however it was
settled, she would do her best, as well for Penton
as for the stocking. And the others watched
her without knowing they were watching her.

She settled to her work with a little sigh of relief,
glad to escape into a region where there
could beno two opinions, where everything was
straightforward. There was something in this
which had a great effect upon the young ones,
especially upon Walter, who was the most resistant,
the most deeply and cruelly disappointed.
There came upon him a great, a
horrible consciousness that in all likelihood she
was right.

Mr. Penton, as was natural, was not so much
impressed.

All that,' he said, with a little wave of his
hand, ' is a truism.' He paused, then repeated
it again with a sense that he had got hold of a
new and impressive word. 'It is a truism,' he
said. 'Everybody was aware from the beginning
that to keep up Penton as it has been
kept up would be impossible. My uncle and
Alicia have made a toy of Penton. It would
be really better, it would look more like the old
house it is, if it were not cleaned up like that,
shaven and shorn like a cockney villa. If I
were a millionaire I should not choose to do it.

So I don't think very much of that argument.'
Walter's spirits rose as he followed eagerly his
father's utterance. But after a moment Mr.
Penton continued, ' There is no doubt, on the
other side, that living would cost a great deal
more than  more than perhaps we  have ever
contemplated. There would be the furnishing,
as your mother says  I had not thought of
that.'

He made the children a sort of jury, before
whom the pro and the con were to be set
forth.

It is beautifully furnished at present  everyone
says so, at least ; that would be a great
charge to begin with. And we might have a
good deal to put up with in the confusion that
would be made between the poor family and
the rich. Your mother is quite right so far as
that is concerned ; what she doesn't take into
consideration is the family feeling  the traditions,
the sense that it is ours, and that nobody
can have any right to it except ourselves.
Alicia, to be sure, is a Penton too, and, as she
says, she has been born there and never has

known any other home. But still, as a matter
of fact, she has entered another family. It
would be an alienation. It has always gone in
the male line. To give it up would be  would
be '

Father,' said Walter, ' you couldn't think of
it. It would be like tearing body and soul
asunder. Give up Penton I I think I would
rather die.'

What has dying to do with it V cried the
father, impatiently. And then he sat silent fora
moment, staring into the fire and twiddling his
thumbs, unconscious of what he was doing.
The young ones watched him anxiously, feeling
with a certain awe that their fate was being
decided, but that this question was too immense
for their interference. At length he got up
slowly and pushed back his chair. * We'll sleep
upon it,' he said.

CHAPTER X.

AN ADVENTURE.

But Walter, for his part, could not sleep upon
it. He followed his father out of the room, he
scarcely knew with what intention ; perhaps
with a hope of further discussion, of being able
to open his own mind, of convincing the wavering
mind of Mr. Penton. It seemed to him that
he could set it all forth so clearly if only the
permission were given him. But Mr. Penton
gave his son no invitation to accompany him.
He asked where Walter was going, what he
meant to do moving about at that hour of the
night.

I think 1 will take  a little turn, sir,' the
young man said.

You are always taking turns I' said Mr. Pen-ton,
with] irritation. ' Why can't you do something
? Why can't you be going on with your
Greek?'

There had been nothing said about Greek for
some time. What could he mean by alluding toit
now? Walter's foreboding mind at once
attached significance to this. He thought that
his father meant to suggest a return to his abandoned
studies by way of preparing for something
serious to come of them. But his dismay
at the suggestion was not so ungenerous as the
looker-on might have supposed. It was not
that he was afraid of being made to work.
What he was afraid of was that this was but
another sign of the abandonment of Penton  of
turning aside to other purposes and other views
than those which had been in some sort the
religion of his life.

It need scarcely be said that no such idea was
in Penton's mind. He took up the Greek, a
missile lying ready to his hand, and tossed it
at Walter as he would have flung a stone at a
dog which had come in his way in the present

perturbed state of his spirits. Having done
this, he thought no more of it, but went into his
book-room and shut the door with a Httle emphasis,
which meant that he was not to be troubled,
but which to Walter seemed to mean that he
decided further argument and had made up his
mind.

The boy stood for a moment groping for his
hat, following his father with his eyes, and then
rushed out into the night in a turmoil of feeling
indignation, misery, surprise. He had been
taken so entirely at unawares. Such a thought
as that of being called upon to relinquish Penton
had never entered into his mind ; it had never
occurred to him as a possibility. He knew well
enough, whatever anyone might say, that to
abolish entail was not a thing to be done in a
minute. Revolutions in law take time. It was
not likely that a man of eighty-five would livelong
enough to see a change like this accomplished.
He had dismissed that idea with
scorn ; and from what other quarter could any
attack come ?

Walter had felt himself invulnerable  unassailable

in his own right. No son could be
more dutiful, more affectionate, less likely to
calculate upon his father's death ; yet, oddly
enough, his father had appeared to him only asa
secondary person in this matter  a man with a
temporary interest ; it was he who was the heir.
And  without any fault of his, in complete independence
of him, without asking his opinion
any more than as one of the children, any more
than that of Ally or Anne  his birthright was
about to be given awaj !

A dim evening, soft and damp, and with
little light in it, had succeeded the brilliant
watery sunset. There was a moon somewhere
about, but she was visible only by intervals
from among the milky clouds. A sort of pale
suffusion of light was in the atmosphere, in
which all the chief features of the landscape
were visible, but more clearly the house, withall
its matted-work of creepers, the lights in the
windows, the bare branches rising overhead,
with a Httle sighing wind in them, a wind that
moaned and murmured of rain. More rain ! 
rain that would fill up higher the link of darkly-shining

water which all but surrounded Penton
Hook. The sky was full of it, the atmosphere
was full of it; the branches glistened with
damp ; the very gravel, where you had made
an indentation with your heel, filled up with
the oozing water, of which the soil was full :
and the wind kept sighing with its little lugubrious
tone among the branches saying,

More rain ! more rain !'

There was a certain moral chill in the air by
reason of this, but it was not cold ; it was what
is called ' muggy ' on Thames-side.

Walter was so well used to it that he made
no remark to himself on the damp, nor did he
feel the chill. He went crunching along the
gravel in his boots, which made a great many
indentations, and left a general running of little
stray water-gleams behind him, to a certain
bench which he had himself made under the
tall poplar close to the river-bank. It had not
been put there because there was shade to be
had in the season when shade is wanted, and
when it is pleasant to sit out and see the river
at one's feet. It was put there for quite a different

reason, because when you knew exactly
where to look, there was one small corner, the
angle of a chimney at Penton, visible among
the trees. And there he seated himself to
think.

The mother had been right when she said that
they had worshipped Penton. The children had
all been brought up in that devotion. It was
a sort of earthly paradise, in which they took
refuge from all the immediate humiliations and
vexations of their lot. To be poor, yet to
belong to the class which is rich, is not a comfortable
position. Those who in his own estimation
were Walter's equals were in every
external circumstance more separated from him
than were the young farmers about ; and yet
the farmers would have been put out by his
presence among them, and he would have found
himself entirely out of his element. He was
thus a young solitary belonging to nobody, at
home with none of his compeers, without companions
or friends of his age. The farmers, had
he taken to them or they to him, were better off
than he ; they had horses to ride, they followed

the hunt, they kept dogs that ran in coursing-matches.
Wat had nothing except, if he
pleased, a share now and then of the solid sturdy
little pony-of-all-work, and Elsie, the shaggy
little terrier.

What youth of twenty could live in the country
and see Fred Milton, who had been in his
division at Eton, and little Bannister, go by in
pink and not feel it ? He felt it, and so did Ally
feel it when she read Eva Milton's name among
the list of the young ladies who were presented
and who had been at the court ball. Do you
suppose Ally did not wish to see what a ball
was like as well as the rest? The farmers'
daughters had their dances too, and got beautiful
white tulle dresses for them as well as their
superiors in rank. But Ally got nothing; neither
the one nor the other. They were shut out of
everything, these poor young people, and felt it,
being made but of ordinary flesh and blood.

But Penton had been amid all this the refuge
of their imaginations. They had been told
indeed that even when they were in Penton
they would be poor. But poverty in such circumstances

would be transformed. They would
no longer be shut out of everything, they would
come within the range of the people who were
'like themselves.' Walter seated himself at the
foot of the poplar-tree, with the liver running
far too close to his feet,  for it was very high,
sweeping round with an ominous hurry and
murmur, preparing floods to come, and the bare
branches overhead rustling and whispering in
the Yind  and directed his eyes to the high
wooded bank, the belt of trees, the Penton
chimney corner. He could not see it vdih his
bodily eyes, but in his soul he saw it dominating
the landscape, and saw as in a panorama everything
it involved.

Sir Walter Penton of Penton was a power in
the county, he was not a mere squire like Fred
Milton's father, or a loading of yesterday like
Bannister's ennobled papa. Sir Walter Penton
of Penton  not the old man who lived shut up
in his library, who was taken out for a drive on
these fine days. Young Walter meant no harm
to the old man, but he was himself the Sir
Walter whom he had seen in his dreams. What

VOL. I. :N'

was it he had looked for? Was it only the
vulgar improvement, more money to spend,
better dinners, horses, travels, all that a young
man wants 1 He had wanted these things, but
something more. He had wanted first of all to
find himself in his place ; to be somebody, not
nobody ; to recover the importance which was
his right, to have all the evils of fortune made
up to him. Is not that what the young dream
everywhere, whatever their circumstances maybe
?  to have everything set right, to do away
with all the spurns that patient merit of the
unworthy takes. Those who spurn you may
not be unworthy, and your own merit may not
be patent, or even you may not be conscious
that you are not meritorious at all. But still we
dream, even without such a tangible occasion
for dreaming as Walter, of everything being-set
right.

And now in a moment this hope was all to be
cut away. Penton was to be made nothing
nothing to him, no more than any house
about, no more than Bannister's fictitious abbey
with its new Strawberry Hill cloister which was

founded upon nothing but wealth, whereas
there had been Pentons of Penton since the
thirteenth century, and most Hkely long before.
And he was the representative of them all I In
his veins was concentrated the essence of theirs,
and yet he was to be cut off : he was to stand
stupid and look on, without even a right to say
no, though it was his inheritance. Walter felt
the very possibility of thought taken from him
in this dreadful catastrophe. He had nothing
to do with it ! that was what everybody would
say. He was not one-and-twenty, but even if
he had reached that age he had nothing to do
with it, though it meant his very Hfe.

The tumult of these thoughts overwhelmed
the poor young fellow. They carried him away
as the river carries everything away when it is in
flood, and turned him over and over and dashed
him against stones and muddy projections, and
poured waves of bitterness over his head. He sat
and bit his nails, and gnawed his under lip, and
thought and thought, if there was any way to
get out of it, if he could say anything, make
any protest to his father, declare his own reading



ness to go anywhere, do anything, rather than
suffer this sacrifice. He might go to Australia
in Australia people make fortunes quickly.
He might soon be able to make money, to send
home something for the children ; or to India,
or to the cornfields somewhere where nuggets
were still to be had. These thoughts can
scarcely be called disinterested, for it was how
to save what was more to him than nuggets or
fortune that Walter was thinking of: but at
all events it was not for himself in the first
place that he meant to labour. It was for an
ambition altogether visionary after all  for Pen-ton,
which meant to him the something better,
the something loftier, the ideal of life. As he
sat musing, the clouds cleared away a little;
there began to be a clear place in the sky : it
grew lighter but he did not remark it  until all
at once, without a word of warning, the moon
suddenly struck out, and made an outburst of
radiant reflection upon the river at his feet
which called his attention in spite of himself.
He looked up instinctively, by the instinct of
long habit, and lo ! everything was clear over

Pentou ; the moon shining full, the clouds all
floating away in masses of fleecy whiteness, and
a weather-cock somewhere blazing out, as if it
were made of gold and silver, to the right.

This sudden revelation was too much for the
boy. He gave a cry of insupportable indignation,
a loud protest and utterance of despair,
and then hid his face, as if the white light had
blinded him, in his hands.

Stay, Martha, look ! there's some one on the
bank. If it's one of the family what shall I
do? or if it's a tramp ? Look ! either he's gone
to sleep and he'll catch his death of cold, or
else he's blinded with the moonlight, as people
say.'

It was a pretty voice that spoke, vith a little
catch in it as of mingled fright and audacity :
and then followed a slight stir on the gravel as
though the speaker had stained back at sight of
the unlooked-for figure under the tree.

Oh, Martha I what shall I do ? I've no business
to be here at this time of the night.'

You're doing no harm,' said Martha. ' The
missis vdW think I was showing a friend round

the grounds to look at the moon, and she'll
never say a Avoid. It's Master Walter. Hush !
Don't you take no notice, and he'll take none.
He's often here of nights.'

But he's gone to sleep, and he'll catch his
death of cold,' the stranger said. * Oh, Martha,
you that you know him, go and wake him
up I'

Hast, then, come along. It's not cold, only
a bit damp, and we're used to that in this house.
Come along,' Martha said.

Walter heard with an acuteness of hearing
which perhaps, had it been only Martha, would
not have been his ; but the other voice was not
like Martha's  he thought it sounded like a
lady's voice. And he was pleased by the solicitude
about himself. And he was very young,
and in great need of some new interest that
might call him out of himself. He rose up suddenly,
and took a long step after the two
startled figures, which flew before him as soon
as he was seen to move.

Hi, Martha ! where are you off to ? Come
back, I tell you. Do you think I'll do you any
harm, that you run from me V

Oh no, sir, please, sir ; it's only me and a
friend taking a turn by the river afore she goes
up to the village. It's a friend, please, sir, as is
staying with us at 'one.'

There's no harm done,' said Walter. ' You
need not run because of me. I'm going in.'

The two young women had come to a pause
in a spot where the moon was shining clearly,
showing in a little opening, amid all the tracery
of interlacing boughs, of which she was making
a shadow pattern everywhere, the square figure
of Martha, standing firm, With another lighter,
shrinking shadow, slim and youthful, beside
her. There was something romantic to Walter's
imagination in this unknown, who had shown
so much interest in himself.

Going to the village at this hour I' he added.
I hope she is not going by herself.'

Oh, it's of no consequence, sir,' said Martha,
pulling rather imperatively her companion by
the gown.

Is it a bad road, or are there tramps, or 
anything? Oh, Martha I' the other said, in a
voice which sounded very clear, though
subdued.

Oh, nonsense, Emmy ! It's just like any-other
road. It's a bit dark and steep to begin
with. But there's nothing to be frightened of.'

Oh, why did I stay so late !' said the other.
How silly of me not to think ! No lamps, nor
nor shops, nor people. I never was out on a
country road in the dark. Oh, why didn't I
think '

Don't be a silly ! It's as safe as safe ; there's
never no accidents here.'

You had better keep your friend with you
all night, Martha ; my mother will not mind.'

Oh !  but my mother, sir ! she would go out
of her senses wondering what had come to me.'

Emmy, don't be a silly. I tell you it's as
safe '

*I have nothing particularly to do,' said
Walter, good-humouredly. ' Since she is so
frightened, I will walk with her as far as the
turnpike. You can see the lights of the village
from there.'

Oh, Mr. Walter, I couldn't let you take that
trouble. I'd rather go with her myself. I'll run
and get Jarvis. I'll '

You need not do anything. It's turned out
a lovely night,' said Walter, 'and I shall be all
the better for the walk.'

It was all settled in a moment, before he himself
knew what was being done, with the carelessness,
the suddenness which sometimes decides
an all-important event. Walter was seized just
at the moment when his own evil fortune
seemed overwhelming, when fate seemed to belaying
hold on him, with a force which nothing
could resist. He was seized by a kind impulse,
a good-natured wish to be of use to somebody,
to escape from himself in this most legitimate,
most virtuous way, by doing something for
another. He was pleased with himself for
thinking of it. A sense of being good came
into his mind, with a little surprise and even
amusement such as only an hour ago would
have seemed impossible to him. It was like
what his mother or one of the girls might have
done, but such impulses did not occur readily
to himself. He walked round towards the gate
by which Martha and her friend stood and
whispered together. Martha he could see did

not like it ; she was shocked to think of her
young master having the trouble. The trouble !
that was the thing that made it pleasant. He
felt for the moment delivered from himself.

If I am walking too fast for you, tell me
he said, when he found himself upon the road
with the small, timid figure keeping a respectful
distance at his side.

Oh, no, sir,' she said, but with a little pant of
breathlessness.

I am going too fast  how thoughtless of me !
Is that better? And so you are not used to
country roads f

I am only a Httle cockney, sir. 1 have never
been out of London before. It's a bad time to
come to the country in the winter : for one forgets
how short the days are, and it's silly to be
frightened. I am silly, I suppose.'

'Let us hope not about other things,' said
Walter. ' The road is very dark, to be sure.'

Yes, sir,' she said, with a little shiver, drawing
closer. They were still in the hollow, and
the hedges were high on either side, and the
darkness was complete upon their path, though

a little way above the moon penetrated, and
made the ascent as white as silver and as light
almost as day.

Should you like,' he said, with a little laugh
of embarrassment, yet an impulse which gave
him a curious pleasure, such as he was quite unfamiliar
with, ' to hold on by me ?  would you
like to take my arm V

Oh, no, sir I'

The suggestion seemed to fill her with alarm,
and she shrank away after coming so close.
Walter was, on the whole, relieved that she did
not take his osier, but he was pleased with himself
for having made it, and immensely interested
in this little modest unknown, who was unseen
as well  this little mysterious being by his side
in the dark.

The wood is very pretty,* he said, ' although
you can't see it, and there are no lamps.'

You are laughing at me, sir ; but if you
consider that 1 never was out of the reach of
the lamps before. Hampstead is the farthest I
have been, and there are lamps there even on
the heath. The darkness is one of the thugs

that strikes me most. It is so dark you can feel
it. It's black.' She gave another little shiver,
and said, after a moment, 'I do so love the
light.'

Her tone, her words, the ease with which
she spoke, filled Walter with surprise  a surprise
which he expressed without thinking, with
a frankness which perhaps he would not have
displayed had his companion not been Martha's
friend.

And what,' he said, ' can you be doing in
our village, and at old Rochford's? I can't
understand it. You are a  you're not a '

He began to recollect himself when he came
this length. To say ' You're a lady ' seemed
quite simple when he began to speak ; but as he
went on it did not prove so easy. If she was a
lady, how could he venture to make any such
remark ?

She gave a little soft laugh which was very
pretty to hear.

'Old Rochford is  a sort of an uncle of mine,'
she said.

Your uncle !'

Well, uo  not quite my uncle, but something
a little like it. When I am humble-minded,
I call him so ; when I am not humble-minded
'

What happens then V

I say as little about it as I can ; I think as
little about it as I can. No,' she said, with a
little vehemence, ' I'm not a lady, and yet I'm
not a  Martha Rochford. I am a poor little
London cockney girl. You shouldn't be walking
with me, sir ; you oughtn't to see me home,
you, a gentleman's sou. People might talk.
As soon as we get into the moonlight there,
where it is so blight, I will release you and run
home.'

*Home!' said Walter, incredulous; 'it is not
possible. Whoever you are  and of course I
have no right to ask  I am sure you are a
lady. You are as little like the Rochford as
anyone could be. No doubt you must have
some reason '

Oh, yes,' she said, with a laugh, clasping
her hands, ' a mysterious reason ; how can you
doubt it "? 1 am a heroine, and I have got a

story. I am in hiding from Prince Charming,
who wants to run away with me and make me
his queen ; but I won't have him, for I am too
high-toned. 1 could not have him shock his
court and break the queen mother's heart.
Every word I say makes you more certain what
sort of person I am. Now doesn't its she cried,
with another laugh.

I can't tell what sort of a person you are,'
said Walter, ' for I am sure I never talked to
anyone like you before.'

Well,' she said, with a quick breath which
might have been a sigh, ' I hope that is a compliment.
I have been talking to Martha all
night, dropping my h's and making havoc with
my grammar. It is nice to do the other thing
for a little and bewilder some one else. Yes ; I
am sure this is a pretty road when there is light
to see it. One can't see it in the moonlight, one
can see nothing for the moon.'

That is true,' said Walter ; * just as in summer
you can't see the grass for flowers.'

I don't exactly catch the resemblance. What
is that lying under the hedge ? The shadow is

SO black, SO black now eve have got into the
light. Look, please ; I feel a little frightened.
What is that under the hedge V

Nothing,' said Walter : * only a heap of stones.
If you will look back now we have got up here
you will see the river and all the valley. The
view is very pretty from here."

lie hoped to see her face when she should
turn round, for, though the moonlight is deceiving,
it is still better than darkness. Even though
she had her lack turned to the light, he could
now see something  the round of what must bea
pretty cheek.

I am sure there is something there under
the hedge, something that moved.'

I will look to satisfy you,' said Walter ; * but
I know there is nothing. Ah ! '

A quick rush, a little patter of steps flying
along the white road, were the first indications
he had of what had happened. Then, before
he could recover himself, a laughing ' Goodbye,
good-bye, sir. Thank you ; I see the
village lights,' came to him down the road. He
made a few steps in pursuit, but then stopped,

for the little figure flying was already out of
sight. And then he stood looking after her
plante la, as the French say. Why, it was an
adventure !  such a break as had never happened
before in his tranquil life.

CHAPTER XL

THE girls' opinion.

The girls in the drawing-room not only met
with no adventure, but they did not even know
that the damp atmosphere had cleared up and
the moon come out. They did not know what
had become of Walter. They were as unaware
of his despair as of the sudden amusement which
had come to him to console him in the midst
of it. They thought  hoped rather  that he
had gone to the book-room with Mr. Penton
and was there talking it over, and perhaps undoing
the effect of what their mother had said.
It did not, indeed, seem very likely that Walter
should be able to do this, but yet they were so
much on the side of Penton in their hearts that
VOL. I.

a vague hope that it might be so, moved them
in spite of themselves. Walter against mother
seemed a forlorn hope ; and yet when all your
wishes are in the scale it is difficult to believe
that these will not somehow help and give force
to the advocate.

Ally and Anne had taken their places at the
table when the gentlemen went away. They
were making little pinafores for the children ;
there were always pinafores to be made for the
children. Anne, who was not fond of needlework,
evaded the duty (which to her mother
appeared one of the chief things for which
women were made) as much and as long as she
could, but, being beguiled by promises of reading
aloud, did submit in the evening. The
little ones used so many pinafores I Ally was
always busy at them, except when she was
helping in the more responsible work of making
little frocks. This evening there was no one to
read aloud, but no one blamed Walter forgoing
out ; no one even thought of the book,
though they were at the beginning of the third
volume. Penton for the moment was a more

interesting subject than any novel. The girls
had not thought so much of it as Walter had
done, but still it had been a prominent feature
in their dreams also. The idea of being Pentons
of Penton could not be indifferent to them ; of
taking their place among the aristocracy of the
county; of going everywhere, having invitations
to all the parties, to tennis in summer, to the
dances, all the gaieties, of which now they only
heard. Secretly in their souls they had consoled
themselves with the thought of this when
they heard of the great doings at Milton and all
that was done when little Lord Bannister came
of age. Anne, indeed, had exclaimed, * If they
don't think proper to ask us now they may let
us alone afterwards, for I shan't go !' But Ally,
more tolerant, had taken the other side. ' They
don't know anything about us ; it would be going
out of their way to ask us. If they knew
we were nice, and didn't ask us because we were
poor, that would be horrid of them ; but how
can they tell whether we are nice or not?'
Anne would have none of this indulgent argument;
she had made up her mind when they



came to advancement to revenge all these wrongs
of their poverty, so that it was equally hard
upon her to have to consent to do without that
advancement after all.

Thus they had plenty to talk about as they
made their little pinafores. These were made
of coloured print, which looked cheerful and
clean (when it was clean), and wore well, Mrs.
Penton thought. Brown holland, no doubt, is
the best on the whole, and there is most wear in
it, but it is apt to look dingy when it is not
quite fresh, and when it is once washed gets
such a blanched, sodden look ; even red braid
fails to make it cheerful. So that Mrs. Penton
preferred pink print and blue, which are cheaper
than brown holland. The table looked quite
bright with those contrasting hues upon it ; and
the young faces of the girls bending over their
work, though they looked more grave and
anxious than usual, were pleasant in their fresh
tints. Mrs. Penton herself went on with her
darning. She had filled up all those great holes,
doing them all the more quickly because she had
studied the ' lie ' of them, and how the threads
went, before.

I have never said anything about it,' said
Mrs. Pennons ' for what was the use ? I saw noway
to be clear of Penton ; but I've had this in
my mind for years and years. You don't know
what an expense it would be; even the removal
would cost a great deal : and, though we should
have a larger income, we should have no ready
money  not a farthing. And then you know
your father, he would never be content to live
in a small way, as we can do here, at Penton ;
he would want to keep up everything as it was
in Sir Walter's time. He would want a carriage,
and horses to ride. He might even think of
going into Parliament  that was one of his
ideas once. Indeed, I see no end to the expense
if we were once launched upon Penton. We
should be finer, and we should see more company,
but I don't think we should be a bit better
after a while than if we had never come into
any fortune at all.'

But it would always be something to be fine
and to see more company, and to have a carnage,
and horses to ride,' said Anne.

At the cost of getting into debt and leaving

off worse than we were before !' said the mother,
shaking her head.

Ally let her work drop on the table and
looked up with her soft eyes. There was a
light unusual in them, which shone even in the
smoky rays of that inodorous lamp.

'Oh,' she said, with a long-drawn breath,
mother ! it's wicked, 1 know ; and if it made
things worse afterwards '

She thinks just as I do !' cried Anne  ' that
to have a little fun and see the world, and everything
you say, would be worth it, if it were only
for a little while !'

Oh, girls !' said Mrs. Penton  a mild exasperation
was in her tone  ' if you only knew what
I know '

'We can't do that, mother, unless we bad
experience like you ; and how are we to get
experience unless we risk something? What
can we ever know here?  the hours the post
goes out, though we have so few letters, the
times they have parties at the Abbey, though
we're never asked. The only thing we can
really get to know is how high the river rises

when it's ia flood, and how many days' rain it
takes to make it level with our garden. Oh,
how uncomfortable that is, and how chill and
clammy I What else can we ever know at
Pent on Hook ?'

Oh, girls ! said Mrs. Penton again.

Si jeunesse savait ! But this is what we will
never be till the end of the world. And at the
same time there was something in her maternal
soul that took their part. That they should
have their pleasure like the other girls; that
they should have their balls, their triumphs like
the rest; that to dress them beautifully and
admire their bright looks might be hers, a
little reflected glory and pleasure for once in
her dim, laborious life  her heart went outwith
a sigh to this which was so pleasant, so
sweet. But then afterwards ? To give it up
was hard  hard upon those who had not discounted
it all as she had done, taking the glory
to pieces and deciding that there was no satisfaction
in it. She felt for her husband and the
children, though for them more than for him 
but her feeling was pity for a pleasant delusion

which could not last, rather than sympathy.
Pentou in itself was to her nothing ; she disliked
it rather than otherwise as something
which had been opposed to her all her life.

If yom father accepts this offer,' she said,
after a time, 'we need not stay in Penton
Hook. We might let it ; or at least we might
leave it in the winter and go to some other
place. We might go to London, or we might
even go abroad ; then yon would really see the
world. If your father had to give up Penton
without any advantage that would be a real
misfortune. But of course they would give him
a just equivalent. Our income would be doubled
and more than doubled. Oswald could stay at
Marlborough ; Walter might go to Oxford. We
should be better off at once without waiting for
it, and we should be free, not compelled to keep
up a large place or spend our money foolishly.
You might have your fun, as you call it.
Why shouldn't you? We would be a great
deal better off than at Penton, and directly  at
once. You know what everybody says about
waiting for dead men's shoes. Sir Walter may

live for ten years yet. Yhen a man has lived
to eighty-five he may just as well live to ninety-five.
And I am sure, if we could only get a little
more money to live on, none of us wishes him to
die.'

'Oh, no,' said the girls, one after another.
If it is any pleasure to him to live,' Anne added,
reflectively, after a pause.

Pleasure to live ? It is always a pleasure to
live, at least it seems so. No one wishes to die
so long as he can help it. I wonder why, myself;
for when you are feeble and languid and
everything is a trouble, it seems strange to wish
to go on. They do, though,' said the middle-aged
mother, with a sigh. She thought of sir Walter
as they thought of her, with a mixture of awe
and impatience. They felt that their own eager
state, looking forward to life, must be so far
beyond anything that was possible to her; just
as she felt her own weary yet life-full being to
be so far in the range of vitality above him.
She drew the stocking off her arm as she spoke,
and smoothed it out, and matched it with its
fellow, and rolled them both up into that tidy

ball which is the proper condition of a pair of
stockings when they are clean and mended, and
ready to be put on. ' I think T will go up to the
nursery and take a look at the children,' she said.
Horry had a cold ; I should like to see that
there is no feverishness about him now he is in
bed.'

Ally and Anne dropped their work with one
accord as their mother went away, not because
her departure freed them, but because their excitement,
their doubt, their sense of the family
crisis all intensified when restraint was withdrawn,
and they felt themselves free to discuss
the problem between themselves.

What do you think?' they both said instinctively,
the two questions meeting as it were in
mid-career and striking against each other. ' I
think,' said Anne, quickly, not pausing a moment,
' that there is a great deal in what mother
says.'

Oh, do you T said Ally, with an answering
look of disappointment ; then she added, ' Of
course there must be, or mother would not say
it. But would you ever be so happy anywhere

as YOU would be iu Penton ? Would you think
anywhere else as good  London, or even abroad
oh, Anne, Penton I'

And now it was that Anne showed that sceptical,
not to say cynical spirit, that superiority
to tradition which had never appeared before in
any of her family.

After all,' she said, ' what is Penton ? Only
a house Hke another. I never heard that it was
particularly convenient or even beautiful more
than quantities of other houses. It is very large
a great deal too large for us  and without
furniture, as mother says. Fancy walking into
a great empty, echoing place, without a carpet
or a chair, and pretending to be comfortable.
It makes me shudder to think of it, whatever
you may say.'

Ally was chilled much more by Anne's saying
it than by the vision thus presented to her.
She began hurriedly,

But Penton ' and then stopped, not

knowing apparently what to say.

1 begin to be dreadfully tired of Penton,'
said Anne, giving herself an air of superiority

and elderly calmness. ' Everybody romances so
about that big, vulgar house. Well, anything's
vulgar that pretends to be more than it is.
One would suppose it was the House Beautiful
or else a royal palace at the very least, to hear
you all speak. And then poor Sir Walter, to
grudge him his little bit of life ! I feel like a
vampire cried Anne, ' every day wishing that
he may die.'

I am sure,' cried Ally, moved almost to tears,
I don't wish him to die.'

You wish to be at Penton, and you can't beat
Penton till he dies,' said Anne, triumphantly.
'Poor old gentleman ! his nice warm rooms that
he has taken so much trouble with, and all his
pretty things ! And to think that a lot of
children who will pull everything to pieces
should be let in upon them, and his own daughter,
who is like himself, and who would keep
everything just as he liked to see it, should be
driven away !'

I never thought of it in that light before,'
said Ally, in a troubled voice.

Nor I,' said Anne ; ' but it is fair to put yourself

in another person's place and think how
you would feel if  Mrs. Russell Penton must hate
us, naturally. I should if I were she. Fancy
if there was some one whose interest it was
that father should die I'

Oh, Anne 1'

It is just the very same, only that father is
not so old as Sir AValter. Suppose there were
no boys, but only you and me, and some other
horrible people were the heirs of the entail.
How I should hate them I I think I should try
to kill them !'

Anne loved an effect, and xlly's softer spirit
was the instrument upon v,hich she played.
Ally cried, ' No, no, no I' with a hoofed protest
against these abominable sentiments. A cloud
of trouble gathered over her face ; her eyes
filled with tears. She put up her hands to stop
those dreadful words as they flowed from her
sister's mouth.

To hate anyone would be temple. I could
not do that, nor you either, Anne.'

Not if they wished that father might
die?'

This awful supposition overwhelmed Ally
altogether. She melted into tears.

Well,, then, come along out into the garden,
and don't let's think of it any more. I want a
little air  the lamp is so nasty to-night  and I'll
finish my pinafore tomorrow. It is very nearly
done, all but the button-holes. Do come out and
see if the river is rising. That is one good thing
about Penton, it is out of reach of the floods.
But look, what a change ! It is almost as clear
as day, and the moon so beautiful. If I had
known I should not have stayed indoors in the
light of that horrid lamp.'

We must do our work some time,' said Ally,
faintly, allowing herself to be persuaded.

It was rather cold, and very damp ; but the
moon had come out quite clear, dispersing, or
rather driving back into distance the masses of
milky clouds which had lost their angry aspect,
and no longer seemed to foretell immediate rain.
Rain is disagreeable to everybody (except
occasionally to the farmers), but it is more than
disagreeable to people who live half surrounded
by a river ; it made their hearts rise to see that

the rain-clouds seemed dispersing and the
heavens getting clear. And then it takes so
very little to lighten hearts of seventeen and
eighteen ! The merest trifle will do  the touch
of the fresh air, even the little nip of the cold
which stirred their blood. As they came out
Walter appeared, coming back from the gate, a
dark figure leaning against the light.

Oh, Wat, where have you been ? Have you
been up to the village without telling us?
And I did so want a run I Why didn't you call
nef

Don't, Anne,' said Ally; ' he is not in spirits
for your nonsense. Poor Wat ! he cannot
throw it off Hke you.'

Ah,' said Walter, reflectively ; but it seemed
to the girls that he had to think what it was he
could not throw off. ' I have not been up to the
village,' he said ; ' only round the dark corner.
Martha was there with a little girl who was in a
terrible funk. She thought there were lions and
tigers under the hedge. I just saw her round
the corner.'

How kind of you, Wat ! A little girl ! But
who could she be ?'

I don't know a bit said AValter, demurely.
It was too dark to see her face.'

He thought his own voice sounded a little
strange, but they did not perceive it. They
came to either side of him, King each an arm
in his.

Gone and look at Penton in the moonlight,'
said Anne, she who was so indifferent to Penton.
But somehow to all of them the sting was taken
out of it, and there was no pain for them in the
sight.

CHAPTER XII.

A NEW FACTOR.

Mrs. Russell Pentox did not let the grass
grow under her feet. In two or three days
after the above events, before Mr. Penton had
made up his rain to give any answer, good or
bad, another emissary appeared at the Hook.
He was a messenger less imposing but more
practical than the stately lady who had perhaps
calculated a little  more than was justified
by the effect produced  upon her own old
influence over her cousin. Xo influence, save
that of mutual interest and business-like arrangement,
was in the thoughts of the present negotiator.
He drove up to the door in a delightful
VOL. I. P

dog-cart with a fine horse and the neatest
groom, a perfectly well-appointed equipage
altogether, such as it is a pleasure to see. He
was as well got-up himself as the rest of the
turn-out  a young man with a heavy moustache
and an air  Anne, who at the sound of this
arrival could not be restrained from moving to
the window and looking out behind the curtains,
pronounced him to be ' A guardsman, I should
think.'

A guardsman ! how should you know what
a guardsman is like ? and what could he want
here V Walter had said, contemptuously. But
he too had peeped a little, ashamed of himself
for doing so. ' A bagman, you mean, coming for
orders,' he cried ; to which his sister retorted,
with equal justice, ' How do you know what a
bagman is Hke? and what orders could he get
here

The two young people were considerably
discomfited when the stranger, in all his smartness
and freshness, with a flower in his buttonhole
(in the middle of winter), was suddenly
shown in upon them by Martha with the murmur

of a name which neither of them caught, and
which, as Anne divined, their hand-maiden had
mumbled on purpose, not comprehending what
it was.

The stranger made his bow and explained
that he had come to see Mr. Penton on business;
and then he displayed an amiable willingness
to enter into conversation with the younger
branches of the family.

Your roads are not all that could be desired,'
he said, finding upon his coat-sleeve an infinitesimal
spot of mud. ' I am afraid it must be
pretty damp here.'

No, it is not damp,' said Walter, promptly.

Oh I' said the other; and then after a moment
he hazarded the observation that the house,
though pretty, lay rather low.

It is not lower than we like it to be,' Walter
replied.

He did not show his natural breeding. He
felt somehow antagonistic to this visitor without
any reason, divining what his errand was.

Oh !' said the stranger again ; and then he
addressed himself to Anne, and said that the

p2

weather was very mild for the season, an assertion
which the most contradictory could not
have denied.

Anne had been looking at him with great
curiosity all the time. She did not know how
to classify this spruce personage. She was not
at all acquainted with the genus young man, and
it was not without interest to her. He was
neither a guardsman nor a bagman, whatever
that latter order might be. Who was he ? She
felt very desirous to enquire. Her reply was,

I am afraid father must be out. Did he
expect you to come V thinking perhaps in this
Away the stranger might be led into telling who
he was.

I don't know that he expected me. I came
on business. There are certain proposals, I believe
; but I need not trouble you with such
matters. I hope I may be permitted to wait
for Mr. Penton, if he is likely to return soon.'

The best way,' said Walter, with an air of
knowledge which deeply impressed his sister,
is to write beforehand and make an appointment.'


That is most true,' said the other, with suppressed
amusement, * but I was told I was
almost sure to find Mr. Penton at home.'

At this moment the door flew open hastily,
and Ally appeared, not seeing the stranger as
she held the door.

Oh, Wat,' she cried, ' father has gone out
and some one has come to see him. Mamma
thinks it is some dreadful person about Penton.
She wants you to run out and meet him, and
tell him  What are you making signs to me
for ?'

As she said this she came fully into the room
and looked round her, and with a sudden flush of
colour, which flamed over cheek and brow and
chin, perceived the visitor, who made a step
forward A\dth a smile and a bow.

I am the dreadful person,' he said. ' I don't
know what I can say to excuse myself. I had no
bad intention, at least.'

Ally was so much discomposed that after her
blush she grew pale and faint. She sank into a
chair with a murmur of apology. She felt that
she Avould Hke to sink through the floor ; and for

once in her gentle life would have willingly
taken vengeance upon the brother and sister
who had let her commit so great a breach
of manners, and of whom one, Anne, showed
the greatest possible inclination to laugh.
Walter, however, was not of this mind. He took
everything with a seriousness that was almost
solemnity.

My sister, of course, did not know you were
there,' he said. And then, with that desire to
escape from an unpleasant situation which is
common to his kind, ' Since you are in a hurry
and your business is serious, I'll go and see if I
can find Mr. Penton,' he said.

And he had the heart to go, leaving the
stranger with Ally and Anne! the one overwhelmed
with confusion, the other so much
tempted to laugh. It was like a boy, they both
reflected indignantly, to leave them so. Between
Ally, who would have liked to cry, and
Anne, who restrained with difficulty the titter of
her age, the young man, however, felt himself
quite at an advantage. He asked with quiet

modesty whether he might send his horse round
to the stables.

I can send him np to the village, but if you
think I might take the liberty of putting him
up here '

They were so glad to be free of him, even fora
moment, that they begged him to do so, in
one breath.

But for goodness' sake, Ally, don't look so
miserable, there is no harm done,' said Anne, in
the moment of his absence ; ' it will show him
how we feel about it.'

What does it matter how we feel ? but
to be rude is di-dreadful ; let me go and tell
mother '

What, and leave me alone with him ? You
are as bad as Wat. You shan't stir till father
comes. Fancy a strange young man, and an
enemy '

'He need not be an enemy, he is only a
lawyer,' Ally said, always ready to see things in
the most charitable light.

And what is a lawyer but an enemy ? Did

you ever hear of a lawyer coming into the
midst of a family like this but it was for harm ?
It was very funny, though, when you bolted in.
Wat and I were making conversation, when you
suddenly came like a thunderbolt with your
dreadful person." '

In the absence of the injured, Ally herself did
not refuse to laugh in a small way.

He does not look dreadful at all,' she said ;
he looks rather  nice, as if he would have some
feeling for us.'

I don't think his feeling for us could be of
much consequence. We have not fallen so low
as that, that we should need to care for an
attorney's feeling,' said Anne. But then her
attention was distracted by the fine horse with
its shining coat, the dog-cart all gleaming with
care and varnish, notwithstanding the traces of
the muddy roads. ' He must be well off,' she
said, * at least,' with a little sigh.

He is in the law,' said Ally ; ' that doesn't
mean the same thing as an attorney. An
attorney is the lower kind; and I'm sure it
may matter a great deal that he should have

feeling. Think of poor Wat's interest. It is
Wat that is to be considered ; even mother, who
is so strong on the other side, and thinks it
would be so much better for the rest of us, is
sorry for Wat.'

Hush I he is coming back,' Anne said.

There was something strangely familiar in
the return of the visitor through the open door
without any formalities, as if he were some one
staying in the house.

It is very fortunate that the weather is so
fine,' he said, coming back. ' The situation is
delightful for the summer, but you must find it
unpleasant when the floods are out.'

It is never unpleasant,' said Anne, ' for it is
our home. We like it better than any other
situation. Pent on is much grander, but we
like this best.'

We need not make any comparison,' said
Ally. ' Cousin Ahcia prefers Peuton because
she was born there, and in the same way we  '

'I understand,' the stranger said. But the
girls were not clever enough to divine what it
was he understood, whether he took this profession

of faith in the Hook as simply genuine,
or perceived the irritation and anxiety which
worked even in their less anxious souls. He
began to talk about the great entertainment
that had taken place lately at Bannister. ' It
was got up regardless of expense,' he said,
and it was very effective as a show. All that
plaster and pretence looks better in the glow of
Bengal lights  of course, you were  What am
I thinking of? It is not your time yet for
gaieties of that kind.'

'We were not there said Anne, in a very
decisive tone. Disapproval, annoyance, a little
Trustfulness, a little envy were in her voice.
We don't go anywhere,' she said.

Not yet, I understand,' said the stranger
again. There was a soothing tone about him
generally. He seemed to make nothing of the
privations and disabilities of which they were so
keenly conscious. ' I have a sister who is not
out,' he went on. ' I tell her she has the best
of it : for nothing is ever so delightful as the
parties you don't go to, when you are very
young.'

They paused over this, a little dazzled by the
appearance of depth in the saying. It sounded
to them very original, and this is a thing that
has so great a charm for girls. He went on
pleasantly :

'There are to be some entertainments, I hear,
at Penton when everything is settled. I hope
I may have the pleasure of meeting you there.'

At Penton I we are never at Penton,' they
cried in the same breath; but then Ally gave
Anne a look, and Anne, being far the more
prompt of the two, made an immediate diversion.

There is father coming through the garden,'
she said. It was a principle in the family to
maintain a strict reserve in respect to Penton,
never permitting anyone to remark upon the
want of intercourse between the families. It is
needless to say that this was a very unnecessary
reserve, as everybody knew what were the
relations between Sir Walter and his heir. But
this is a delusion common to many persons-more
experienced in the ways of the world
than the poor Pentons of the Hook.

Mr. Penton came in making a great noise with

bis big boots upon the tiles of the hall. He
opened the door of the drawing-room and looked
in with a nod of recognition which was not very
 or dial.

Good morning, Mr. Rochford,' he said ; ' I
am sorry I have kept you waiting. Perhaps
you will come with me to my room, where we
shall be undisturbed.*

The young man hesitated a little. He made
the girls a bow more elaborate than is usual
with young Englishmen.

If I am not so fortunate as to see you again
before I go  ' he said, with his eyes on Ally 
and how could Ally help it ? She was not in
the habit of meeting people who looked so. She
blushed, and made an inclination of her head,
which took Anne, who gave him an abrupt little
nod, quite by surprise.

Why,' the girl cried, almost before the door
closed, ' Ally, you gave him a sort of dismissal
as if you had been a queen.'

What nonsense !' Ally said; but she blushed
once more all over, from the edge of her collar
to her hair. *I wonder she said, * whether

Cousin Alicia can leave ns out, if she is going
to give entertainments as he says.'

When everything is settled  what does that
mean ? when everything is settled,' cried Anne.

It means, I suppose,' said "Walter, gloomily,
when Penton has been given over, when we
have fallen down among the lowest gentry,
just kept up a little (and that's not much) by
the baronetcy which they cannot take away.
Father can't sell that, I believe. Mrs. Russell
Penton may be a very great lady, but she can't
succeed to the baronetcy. Leave us out I Do
you mean to say that  over my body, as it were,
you would go !'

'Oh, Walter, don't take it like that! If
father settles upon doing this, it will be because
both together they have decided that it is the
best.'

And no one asks what I think,' cried the
lad, ' though after all it is I '

He stopped himself with an effort, and without
another Avoid swung out again, leasing the
door vibrating behind him. And the girls
looked at each other with faces suddenly

clouded. Fifty looks to twenty so remote an
age, so little to be calculated upon. After all,
it was Walter, not Mr. Penton, who was the
heir. And no one asked what .he thought !

The door of the book-room closed upon the
negotiations which were of such importance to
the family. There came a hush upon the house
even the winterly birds in the trees without,
who chirped with sober cheerfulness on ordinary
occasions, were silent to-day, as if knowing that
something very important was going on.
Those who passed the door of the book-room 
and everybody passed it, the way of each individual,
whatever he or she was doing, leading
them curiously enough in that direction  heard
murmurs of conversation, now in a higher, now
in a lower key, and sometimes a little stir of the
chairs, which made their hearts jump, as if the
sitting were about to terminate. But these
signs were fallacious for a long time, and it was
only when dinner was ready, the early dinner,
with all its odours, which it was impossible to
disguise, that the door opened at last. The
three young people were all about the hall door,

Walter hanging moodily outside, the two girls
doing all they could to distract his thoughts
Avhen this occurred. They all started as if a
shell had fallen amongst them. By the first
glimpse of Mr. Penton's face they were all sure
they could tell what had been decided upon.
But they were not to have this satisfaction.

Tell your mother,' he said, keeping in the
shade, where no one could read his countenance,
to send in a tray with some luncheon for Mr.
Rochford and me.'

And then the door closed, and the discussion
within and the mystery and anxiety \'ithout
continued as before.

CHAPTER Xii

MAN AND WIFE.

However it goes said Mr. Russell PentoD, ' I
don't think you can help taking some notice
of the young people. In the first place it is
right, but that 1 allow does not count much in
social matters ; and next it is becoming and
expedient, and what the world will expect of
you, which is of course much more important.'

Gerald,' said his wife, ' what have I done to
make you speak to me like that V

I don't know that you have done anything,
Ahcia. It is of course your affair rather than
mine. But I think it is hard upon your cousins.
It is like that business about the birth-right,

you know  you haye got the mess of pottage,
and they  the other thing, half sentimental,
half real.'

'1 wonder at yon, Gerald,' cried Mrs. Penton.
What true sentiment can they laye in the
matter ? They never lived here ; their immediate
ancestors never lived here. False sentiment,
if you like, as much of that as you like,
but nothing else ; and the real advantage will
be immediate, as you know.'

Yes, I know. I never said it was the sentiment
of acquisition ; it is the sentiment of personal
importance, which perhaps is even more
telling. Apart from Penton, they will feel themselves
nobodies.

As they are, as they have always been.'

AVell, my dear,' said Mr. Russell Penton, with
a shrug of his shoulders, ' I have always said it
was your affair and not mine.'

You never said that you disapproved. You
have heard all the conversation that has gone
on about it, and yet you have never said a
word. How was I to know that you disapproved
V

VOL. I. Q

I don't disapprove. It is a question between
you and Sir Walter and your relations. It
would not become me to thrust in my opinion
one way or the other.'

Tears came into Mrs. Penton's eyes.

'When you say such things, Gerald, you
make me feel as if I were no true wife to
you.'

Yes, yon are my true wife, and a very dear
one,' he said, after a momentary pause, without
effusion, but with serious kindness. 'But we
knew, Alicia, when we married that the position
was different from that of most husbands and
Vives. I am a sort of Prince Consort, to advise
and stand by you when I can ; but it is my best
policy, for my own self-respect as well as your
comfort, not to interfere.'

The Prince Consort was not like that,' she
said ; ' he was the inspiration of everything.
It was not in the nature of things that anything
could be done or thought of without
him.-*

'I have not that self-abnegation,' he said;
there is but one like that in a generation ; besides,

my dear, you are not the Queen. You
must defer to another's guidance. What is
settled between Sir Walter and you is for me
sacred. I make any little observations that
occur to me, but not in the way of advice. For
example, 1 permit myself to say that it is hard
on your cousin, because I think you don't quite
appreciate the hardship on his side  not to
prevent you carrying out your own purpose,
Which I don't doubt is good and very likely the
best.'

She shook her head doubtfully.

You are very kind and very tolerant, Gerald,
but all you say makes me see that you
would not have done this had you been in my
place.'

He paused a little before he replied,

It is very difficult for me to imagine myself
in your place, Alicia. A man cannot realise
what it would be to be a woman, I suppose.
But I'll tell you what I should have done, had I
been in Sir Walter's place, with one dear daughter
and an heir of entail  I should have moved
heaven and earth to kick him out or buy him

q2

out. There can be uo doubt as to what I should
have done in that case.'

Alicia took his hand and held it in both hers.
She looked gratefully into his face, and said,
*Dear Gerald !' but yet she turned away unsatisfied,
with a haunting suspicion. Being Sir
Walter, that was what he would have done.
But he thought the woman who was his wife
should not have done it. In no way had
Russell Penton intimated this to be the case.
He had never said that a woman should have a
different standard of duty set up for her. But
Alicia had intuitions which were keener than
lier intelligence, just as she had longings for
approval and sympathy which went far beyond
her power of communicating the same. He
would have liked her better if she had not
grasped at Penton. Without any aid of words,
this was what she divined. The blank of the
doubt which was in her made her heart sore.
She wanted to carry his sympathy with her, at
any cost. She called after him as he was going
away :

As you are so much concerned about those

young people, 1 will ask them. I will ask them,
to please yon ; if you like, next week, when the
Bromley Russellss are here.'

He looked at her for a moment with something
like a stare of surprise ; then his countenance
relaxed; a smile came over his face.

Why not V he said.

Why not ? There can be no reason against
it, if you wish it.'

This time Russell Penton laughed out.

No,' he said, * no reason ; the other way.
Let the young fellow have his chance.'

'What chance?' Alicia stiffened in spite of
herself. His laugh offended her, but she would
not show her offence, nor inquire what he meant,
in case that offence might be increased. ' 1
was not thinking,' she added, ' of any young
fellow. I was thinking of the girls.'

'If my wish has weight with you, let the boy
come too. The sisters will want a chaperon,
don't you know V

The sisters V said Mrs. Penton. An inexpressible
sense of dislike, of displeasure, of repugnance
came over her, as if some passing

wind had carried it. ' Not that sharp girl,' she
said, with a look of fastidious dissatisfaction 
something that moved the lines of her nostrils
as if it offended a sense.

Not the sharp girl, and not the boy,' said
Russell Penton. ' But, then, who is left V

My godchild is left, Alicia, the one I like
best ; or, rather, whom I '

Dislike least,' said her husband, with his
laugh. 'I cannot see, now that everything is
likely to be settled to your satisfaction, what
possible reason there can be for disliking them
at all.'

There is none,' she said, with an effort. ' I
am the victim of a state of affairs which is over ;
I cannot get my feelings into accordance with
the new circumstances. You cannot blame me,
Gerald, more than I blame myself.'

He said nothing at all in reply to this, but
turned away as he had done with the intention
of going out, when she called him back. Once
more she recalled him, with the same dull sense
of his disapproval aching at her heart.

Gerald, after all, you see 1 do not even wait

till things are settled to ask the children. Give
me a little credit for that.'

You said, Ahcia,'that it was to please me.'

And so it is I and so are many things  morea
great deal more, than you think.'

He put his hands upon her shoulders and
looked into her face.

You are always very good, very kind, and
ready to please me. Is it for that I am to
give you credit ? or for generosity towards your
young cousins ? You are not very logical, you
see.'

Women are not supposed to be logical,' she
said.

He gave a grave smile as he took his hands
away.

Women are more logical than they acknowledges
he said. ' It is a convenient plea.'

And this time there was no recall. He went
out without any further hindrance, not much
pleased with himself, and perhaps less with her.
He was not, as she divined, satisfied at all.
Rich Mrs. Penton's husband had as Httle devotion
to Penton as had poor Mr. Pent(m's wife. He

felt that he would have been more at bis ease
in any other house, and a subtle sort of rivalry
with Penton, antagonism partly irrational, and
disappointment in the thought that Sir Walter's
death, when it came, would bring him no enfranchisement,
filled his mind with an irritation
which it was not always possible to keep under.
He did not want her to do this scanty justice to
her young relations, her only relations, in order to
please him. They had done no harm : why should
it be an offence to her that they had in their veins
a certain number of drops of kindred blood?

Presently, however, this irritation turned into
displeasure with himself. He had been hard
upon AHcia ; he had asked that the young Pen-tons
should be invited, vaguely, without any
particular meaning; and she had said she would
ask them at once, along with the heiress, the
great prize for whom so many were contending.
It had jarred upon her when he laughed, and it
now occurred to him that his laugh had been
ill-timed and out of place ; yet, all alone as he
was, when it came back to his mind he laughed
again. Why not? he had said and why not?

he repeated, with a gleam of humour lighting
up thoughts which were not particularly pleasant
in themselves. He, a poor scion of the Russellss,
had earned off the Penton heiress ; why should
not young Penton, the poor and disinherited,
have a try at the other, the Russell heiress?

But if Alicia saw the reason of hi? merriment,
no wonder that it had jarred upon her. It was
in bad taste, lie said to himself. To compare
her with the little Russell girl was a thing which
even in thought was offensive. He did not
wonder that she was offended by his laugh, that
it made her stiff and cold. He sighed a little
as all inclination to laugh died out of him. It
would have suited him better to have had a mate
of a lighter nature, one who would have let him
laugh, who would have been less easily' jarred,
less sei-ious, less full of dignity ; but this was a
thing that Russell Penton was too loyal even to
say to himself. It might touch the surface of
his thoughts, but only to be banished. It was
because of this inevitable jar, this little difference,
which was so little yet was fundamental,
that he sighed.

And she sighed too, she who did so many
things to please him  more, far more than he
had any idea of. She was ready to do almost
anything to please him : almost, yet with a great
reserve. Instinctively she was aware that Pen-ton
stood between them  that the bondage of
the great house which was not his, and the bm
den of representing a family of which he was
only, so to speak, an accidental member, lay
very heavy upon the easy mind and cheerful,
humorous nature of her husband. He was not
born to be the head of a house. What he
liked was the ease of a life without responsibilities,
without any representative character.
A cheerful little place with all its windows open
to the sun, where he could do what he liked,,
where no man could demand more of him than
to be friendly and agreeable, which he could
leave when he chose and come back to as he
pleased,  that would have been his ideal home.
She said to herself that the wife whom he had
taken to such a little house would have been
very happy, and sometimes, in the days when
she still indulged in dreams (which women do

ill the strangest way, long after the legitimate
age for it), she had seen that tiny place in a
vision sith children about it and no cares (as if
that were possible !), and Gerald's countenance
always beaming with genial content.

But the woman who was so happy, who was
at her ease, whom no troubles touched, who
was Gerald's other self, was not Alicia. She
had to sigh and turn away, feeling that this
could never be. Her life had been already settled
when she married. There Alas no change
or escape for her: indeed, what was stranger
still, though she perceived the happier possibilities
in the other lot, she knew that it had
never been possible to her. The ease would
have wearied, perhaps even disgusted her. Attending
that vision of happiness would come
revelations of the slipshod, glimpses of what
ease and happiness so often come to when they
grow to over-luxuriance. No, the difference
was very slight, but it was fundamental.

And in this, as in so many other contradictions
of life, the woman had the worst of it.
Russell Penton was tolerant bv nature, and he

had trained himself to still greater tolerance. He
made an observation, as he said, now and then,
but it was possible to him to stand by and look
on, without worrying himself about that which
he could not change. He would say to himself
that it was no business of his ; he could even
refrain from criticism except in so far as we
have seen, when he made a good-natured protest
in defence of some one wronged, or avenged
another's injury by a laugh. But Alicia, on
her side, was not so easily satisfied. She wanted
him to approve ; his acquiescence, his plea
that it was not his affair, his declaration that he
would not interfere, were to her gall and bitterness.
She could not adopt his light ways, nor
take things easily as he did. Following her
own course, acting upon her own principles,
his concurrence, his approval, were the things
she longed for before all others. When he said,
You are quite right,' she was happy, though
even then never without a sense that he must
have added within himself, * right from your
own point of view.'

The curious thing, however, and one which

she was also aware of with a strange double
consciousness, was that she never thought of
adopting his point of view, or attempting even
any compromise between his and hers. She
had placed herself so completely in her own
groove that she could not get out of it, and had
no wish to get out of it. But yet she wanted
his approval all the same. She wanted it passionately,
with an insistance which even her
own complete enlightenment as to the difference
between them never affected. Having
her own way, even in the supreme question
which now at the last had been opened only to
promise the most satisfactory solution, she yet
would have no real pleasure in it unless he
approved. x\nd his mode of passing it over,
his assent which meant no approval, took the
pleasure out of everything. What could she do
to please him more than she was doing ? But
she never had it. that satisfaction of the heart.

CHAPTER XIV.

A TRANSITION PERIOD.

Mr. Penton's long interview with the young
solicitor bad ended in this,  and, though it did
not seem exactly a settlement of the question,
it had been taken for granted by both families
as such : that he consented to treat with Sir
Walter Penton. The terms might take a longer
time to arrange, and there were conditions 
some of a rather peculiar character, as his opponents
thought  which Mr. Penton insisted upon.
But upon the general question he was supposed
to have yielded. It had taken him a great
deal of thought, and he was not happy about
it. He went about the house and his fields with

a moody countenance, avoiding every turn or
point of view which revealed Penton  those
points of view which had once been his happiness.
This fact alone took a great deal of
the pleasure out of his life. It had been his relief
in former days to mount the road to that
corner where the view was, or go out and
sit on the bench under the poplar-tree : but
now he turned his back upon these favourite
places. When he was low, he had no longer
this way of escaping from himself.

Of all points of the compass, that on which
Penton lay had become the most distasteful to
him. He would have liked to have had it blotted
out from the landscape altogether ; there
was nothing but pain in the sight of it, in the
mere knowledge that it was there. And winter
is cruel in this particular. It spares you
nothing  not even a chimney. The weathercock,
glowing through the bare trees, seemed
to catch every ray of light and blazon it over
the whole country : the windows that faced the
south were in a perpetual scintillation. The
great house would not be hidden ; it made no

account of the feelings of those who were in
the act of parting with it for ever ; though its
aspect was now a reproach and humiliation to
them instead of a pride, it seemed to force itself
more and more on their eyes.

Walter felt this almost more strongly than
his father, if that were possible. He too went
about moody, with the air of a man injured,
turning his back on the once favourite quarter
where the sunset was. He said in his haste
that he never wanted to see a sunset again,
and, when the girls called his attention to all
the stormy gorgeous colours of the winter
afternoon, he would turn his back upon them
and declare that the reflection in the river, the
secondary tints in the cold grey of the east,
were enough for him. He said this with a
vehemence which his father did not display.

But Walter had solaces and alleviations of
which his father was incapable ; and Mr. Penton
was the one who felt it most deeply after all. In
his middle-aged bosom the tide of life was not
running high. He had few pleasures; even
few wishes. It no longer moved him in his

habitual self-restraint that he had no horses, no
means of keeping his place among his peers.
All that had dropped away from him in the
chill of custom  in that acceptance of the inevitable
which is the lowest form of content.
But there had always been Penton in which his
imagination could take refuge. Penton was still
an earthly paradise into which one day or other
he should find entrance, which nobody could
close from him. And now that too was closed,
and his fancy could no longer go in and dwell
there. He said very little about it, but he felt
it to the bottom of his heart. It was the sort
of thing of which he might have died had the
floods been out or the atmosphere deleterious
as it sometimes was ; but happily it was not an
exceptionally wet season, and the river had not
as yet been ' out ' that year.

The ladies from the first had taken it better,
and they continued to do so. Mrs. Penton began
to make calculations  with bated breath
and many a ' hush !' when either father or son
were nigh  of what she would now be able todo.
She thought it would be well for them all,

VOL. I, R

as soon as matters were settled, to go away :
for, though the waters were not out yet, it was
scarcely to be hoped for that they should not
after Christmas, in February at the latest, have
their way : and a separation from the scene
of their disappointment would, she thought, be
good both for Mr. Penton and Wat. Mrs. Pen-ton
said this with a sigh, feeling already all
that was involved in a removal in the middle
of winter ; but it would be good, she felt, for
Horry and the rest to be out of the damp, and
it would be very good for Wat. The thing for
Wat would be to go to Oxford without delay :
fortunately he was not too old, and that would
take him off" thinking about Penton if anything
would.

As for the father, there was no such panacea
for him. What can be done to distract or
divert a man who has outlived the ordinary
pleasures, and cannot have his mouth stopped
or his heart occupied with any new toy ? A
horse or two such as he would now be able to
afford would have done a great deal for him
once ; but now he had got out of the habit of

riding, and might not care to take it up again.
It was easier to think of the young ones
whose Kfe lay all before them, and who would
enter the world now under so much better conditions,
though not those they had calculated
upon. Mrs. Penton made up her mind that if
all Alas settled on the terms proposed she
would be able to give the girls * every advantage.'
They should be taken to see a great
many things ; they should have clothes and
surroundings that suited their condition ; they
might even * see a little of the season ' when the
proper time came round.

All these things were pondered aud decided
upon in the many hours Avhen the feminine
portion of the household sat together, which
were more than had ever been before. For
Wat did not care to have his sisters constantly
A\ith him as he once had done; they set it
down to his disappointment about Penton,
and the disturbance of his temper and of his
life which had ensued  which, when they
accused him of it, he agreed in with a sort of
satisfaction. But when Anne said, without

r2

thought, ' One would think Wat had found
somebody else to go with him,' he was very
angry, and grew very red, and demanded to
know who else? who was he likely to have
else ? with an indignation which the provocation
did not justify.

Thus it will be seen that the circumstances of
the household were much changed. They had
not been in a very flourishing condition when
they first discussed the law of entail and the
possibility that it might be attacked by a
reforming parliament and their birthright taken
from them ; but somehow that simple time of
expectation and depression, which now looked
as if it might be years ago, had been, with all
its straitenedness, a happier time than now. A
certain agitation had got into all their veins;
the girls and their mother sat mostly alone in
the evenings. There was no reading aloud.
Wat was out almost always, taking a walk,
he said ; or when he was not out he was in the
book-room, grinding, as he told them, at his
Greek, which was quite necessary if he was
going up to Oxford in the beginning of the

year. The girls would have thought this state
of affairs insupportable a little while ago, butin
the commotion of the approaching change
they found so much to talk of that they were
partially reconciled to making pinafores all the
evening in the light of the paraffin lamp,
though it smelt badly, and there was no one to
read to them. They had a gTcat deal to talk
about.

As for Mrs. Penton, her mouth was opened
as it had never been in her life before. She
talked of balls, and theatres, and of the ' things '
they must get as soon as ever matters were
settled. She recounted to them her own experiences
 the dances she had gone to before her
marriage, and all the competition there had
been to secure her for a partner.

They said I was as light as a feather,' she
said, with her eyes fixed upon the stocking she
was darning, and without raising her head ;
and so they will say of Ally, for Ally is just
the same figure I was. But you must have
some lessons when we go to town.'

She was pleased thus to talk, recalling old

recollections, to which the girls listened with
astonishment : for they had never supposed
that their mother knew anything of those
gaieties, which to themselves were like the
fables of golden isles unknown to men ; but
they were not displeased to listen, weaving
into the simple story as it flowed the imaginations,
the anticipations which filled that unknown
world upon the threshold of which they stood.
It was even more absorbing than the stories
of the good and fair heroines (for Mrs. Penton
was very particular in her choice of the books
which were read by them) to which they had
been in the habit of listening. But they missed
Wat, to whom, however, they allowed the
narration of mother's tales might have seemed
a little flat had he been there. Wat up to the
present moment had shown very Httle interest
in anything of the kind : but it was a little
strange now that he should so often be ' taking
a turn ' even when the moon was not shining,
and when the country roads were so dark.

Mr. Rochford, the solicitor, came on several
occasions during this time of transition. He

came often enough to make the children quite
familiar with that trim and shining dog-cart, and
the horse which was so sleek and shining too.
Horrj had been driven round and round in
it, nay, had been allowed to drive himself,
making believe, before it was put up : and he
and his smaller brother assisted at the harnessing
and unharnessing of this famous animal
with the greatest enthusiasm every time he
came. Young rustic lads attending at a
monarch's levee could not have been more
interested than were these babes. And Mr.
Rochford made himself more or less agreeable
in other ways to the whole family, except Wat,
who did not take to him, but kept him at a distance
with an amount of unfriendly temper
which he showed to no one else.

There was no idea now of a tray earned into
the book-room when this visitor came. He was
introduced to the early dinner where all the
children sat in their high chairs, and where the
food was more wholesome than delicate  a meal
which was too plainly dinner to be disguised
under the name of luncheon. Mr. Rochford

made himself quite at home at this family dinner.
He praised everything, and declared that he
was always most hungry at this hour, and ate
so heartily that Mrs. Penton took it as a personal
compliment ; for, though Mrs. Penton sometimes
made a little moan about the appetites of
the children, she yet was much complimented
when visitors (who were so few at the Hook)
ate well and seemed to relish the simple food.

Roast mutton may be simple,' she said, ' but
there is roast mutton and roast mutton  a big,
white, fat leg half cooked is a very different
thing from what is set on our table : for I must
say that Jane, if she is not much to look at, is
an excellent cook.'

She liked to see people eat ; not Horry getting
three helps and gorging himself : that was
a different matter altogether ; but a visitor who
could appreciate how good it really was.

And after dinner was over Mr. Rochford
would ask whether he might not be taken round
the garden to see, not the flowers, for there
were none, but the footmarks of different years,
and how high the river had come on the last

occasion when the waters were ' out.' He had
a great interest in the floods  more than Mr.
Penton, who got weary of his guest's enthusiasm,
and stole back to the book-room, leaving him
with the girls ; and more than Anne, who heard
her mother calling her, or found she had something
to do in the poultry yard, every time this
little incident occur-ed. Ally was the most civil,
the most long-suffering, and it soon became
evident that there was only one who had
patience to conduct Mr. Rochford to see the
footmarks.

I have been used to them all my life,' the
young lawyer said. ' I have an old aunt who
lives as close to the river as this, and who has
the water in her garden every year. I used to
be sent on visits there when I was a child, and
oh ! the transports of the inundation and the old
punt in Which we used to float about. To
come up under the windows in that punt was
bliss.'

You could not do that here,' said Ally, with
that pride in the Hook which was part of the
family character. * The water never comes

above the garden. I showed you the highest
flood mark was on a level with the terrace
round the house.'

Yes,' said the visitor, with an implicit faith
which was not universal among those who
heard this tale. ' What a piece of good fortune
that is ! You must feel as if you were in an
oasis in the midst of the desert.'

Ally felt that the metaphor was not very appropriate,
but of course she knew what he
meant. She said,

The little boys are as fond of seeing the
floods as you were when you were a boy.'

It would be difficult work if at any time the
house was cut off  I beg your pardon,' said
Rochford, ' that is nonsense, of course ; but do
you know I dreamt the other night that the
river was higher than ever had been known,
and was sweeping all round the Hook, and that
the family were in danger ? 1 got out in my
boat on the wildest whirling stream, and steered
as well as I could for your window. Which is
your window, Miss Penton ? 1 knew quite well
which it was in my dream, and steered for it.

That one ! why then I was right, for that was
where I steered.'

'You frighten me,' said Ally, 'but the water
has never come near the house.'

It did on this occasion. There were people
at all the windows, but I steered for yours. I
heard myself calling Miss Penton, and you
wouldn't let me save you. You kept putting
the children into my arms, and I could not refuse
the children  but I shall never forget the hoiTor
with which I woke up, finding that you always
delayed and delayed and would not come.'

'How kind of you,' said Ally, laughing, but
with a little blush, 'to take so much trouble
even in your dream.'

Trouble !' he cried, ' but yet it was great
trouble, for you would not come. I heard myself
calling, trying every kind of argument, but
you always pushed some one in front of you to
be saved first, and would not come yourself. I
awoke in a dreadful state of mind, crying out
that it was my fault, that it was because of me,
that if it had been any one else you would have
come.'

'How ungrateful you must have thought me
said Ally, blushing more and more, ' but of course
I should have put the children first. You maybe
sure that is what I shall do if it should ever
come true.' 

I am forewarned,' he said, laughing. ' I
shall know how to beguile you now that I am
informed.'

 I hope you may never have the occasion,'
she said.

Of helping you ? Do you think that is a
kind wish, Miss Penton ? for it is a thing which
would be more delightful than anything else
that could happen to me.'

Ally, being a little confused by this continuance
of the subject, led him round by the edge
of the river to the poplar-tree and the bench
underneath.

We used all to be verfond of this seat,' she
said, ' because of the view. If Penton is going
now to be nothing to us, we must take the bench
away.'

Can it ever cease to be something to you ?
It is the home of your ancestors.'

Oh, yes ; but one's father is more near one
than one's ancestors, and if he is to have nothing
to do with Penton '

You regret Penton,' said the lawyer, fixing
his eyes upon her ; ' then I wish my hand had
been burned off before I had anything to do
with the business.'

Oh, what could that matter?' cried Ally.
I am nobody ; and besides,' she added, with
gravity, ' I do not suppose it could have been
stopped by anything that either you or I could
do.'

This made the young man pause : but whatever
was disagreeable in it was modified by the
conjunction ' you and I.' Was it only ciiUty,
or had she unconsciously fallen into the trap
and associated herself with him by some real
bond of sympathy ? He resumed, after a pause,

Perhaps we might not be able to cope T-ith
such grandees as your father and Mrs. Russell
Penton, but there is nothing so strong as  as
an association  as mutual help, don't you
know

Ally did not know, neither did he, what he

meant. She replied only, ' Oh 1' in a startled
tone, and hurriedly changed the subject.

Will it take a long time to draw out all the
papers, Mr. Rochford ? Why should it take so
long ? It seems so simple.'

Nothing is simple that has to do with the
law. Should you like it to be hurried on or to
be delayed? Either thing could be done according
as it pleased you.'

There was the slightest little emphasis upon
the pronoun, so little that Ally perceived it first,
then the next moment blushed with shame at
having for a moment allowed herself to suppose
that it could be meant.

Oh, we could not wish for either one thing
or another,' she said. ' 1 shall be sorry when it
is altered, and I shall be glad. Naturally it is
Walter that feels it most.'

Ah, he is the heir.'

He was the heir, Mr. Rochford. I feel for
him. He has to change all his wajs of thinking,
all that he was looking forward to. But why
should we talk of this ? I ought not to talk of
it to any stranger. It is because you have so
much to do with it, because you '

Because I am mixed np with it from the
beginning,' he said, regretfully. ' How kind
you are to receive me at all, when it was I
whose fate it was to introduce so painful a
subject. But one never knows,' he went on, ina
lower tone, ' when one drives up to a door
that has never been opened to one's steps
before, what one may find there ; perhaps the
most commonplace, perhaps'  he turned his head
away a little, but not enough to make the last
two words, uttered in a lowered but distinct
voice, inaudible to Ally  ' perhaps one's fate.'

The girl heard them, wondered at them, felt
herself grow pale, then red. There is something
in words that mean so much, which convey a
sort of secondary thrill of comprehension without
revealing their meaning all out. Ally, who was
unprepared for the real revelation, felt that
here was something which was not usual to
be said, which concerned her somehow, which
made it impossible for her to continue the conversation
calmly. She turned away to examine
some moss on the trunk of the nearest tree.
Did he mean her to hear that ? Did he mean
her not to hear ? And what did it mean ? His

fate  that must mean something, something
more than people generally said to each otherwhile
taking a turn round the garden, whether
it might be to see the roses or to examine the
footmarks.

At this moment the most fortunate thing
occurred  a thing which ended the interview
without embarrassment, without any appearance
of running away upon Ally's part. Mrs. Penton
suddenly appeared in the porch, which was
within sight, holding a letter in one hand and
beckoning with the other. She called, not Ally,
but ' Alice !' which in itself was enough to mark
that something had occurred out of the common.
Her voice thrilled through the still damp air
almost with impatience ; its usual calm was gone ;
it was full of life, and haste, and impetuosity 
more like the quick voice of Anne that that of
the mother. And then little Horry came running
out, delighted to escape out of doors in his pinafore,
without cap or greatcoat or any wrap, his
red stockings making a broken line of colour ashe
ran along the damp path, his curls of fair
hair blowing back from his forehead.

Ally ! Anne I  Ally ! Anne !' he cried,
mother wants you! Ally Anne I mother wants
you I  she wants you bo. She's got news
foryoubovf. Ally-Anne! Ally-Anne!' shouted
the small boy.

I'm coming, Horry I' cried the girl ; and
from the other side of the house came the same
cry from her sister. Ally entirely forgot Mr,
Rochford and his fate. She ran home, leaving
him without another thought, encountering midway
Anne, who was flying from the poultry
yard, in which she had taken refuge. What
was it ? At their age, and in such simplicity as
theirs, a letter suddenly anived with news
might mean anything. What might it not
mean ? It might mean that the Queen had sent
for them to Windsor Castle. It might mean
that some very great lady unheard of before
had unsated them on the score of some old
unknown friendship. It might mean that somebody
had left them a fortune. The only thing
it could not mean was something unimportant.
Of that only they were assured.

Mrs. Penton stood at the door in her excite-vol.
I. S

ment, with the letter in her hand. Her tall
figure was more erect, her head borne higher
than usual. When she saw the girls running
from different directions she turned and went
indoors, and presently Waiter appeared in answer
to another summons, walking quickly to
the door. Young Rochford, standing under the
poplar looking at them, felt ridiculously ' out
of it,' as he said. It would have pleased him to
feel that he had something to do with the family,
that their consultations were not entirely closed
to him. He had been so much mixed up with it 
all the details of their future means, every bit of
land which they relinquished, every penny of
that which they got as compensation, would pass
through his hands. He had been feeling of late
as if he really had a great deal to do with the
Pentons. But here arose at once a matter with
Which he had nothing to do, upon which he
could not intrude himself, to which he was left
as much a stranger as though he did not know
exactly what their income would be next year.
He went slowly into the book-room, with feelings
that were utterly unreasonable, though not

without the excuse of being natural. The book-room,
that was his place, and Mr. Penton and
the formal business. But he must not even ask
what was the other business which was so much
more interesting, the letter which had been sent
to Mrs. Penton, which the young ones had been
in such excitement to hear, and no doubt to give
their opinions on. He had certainly no light to
have an opinion on the subject, whatever it
might be. He was only the solicitor managing
an external piece of business  and treated with
great civility and kindness  but nothing more.
How could he be anything more ?

s2

CHAPTER XV.

THE INVITATION.

Mrs. Penton was in a condition of excitement
such as had never been seen in her before. She
could not lay down the letter. She could not
speak. She went at length and seated herself in
the high chair  in the chair which her husband
occupied at any great domestic crisis, when a
council of the whole family was called. As her
usual seat was a low one, and her usual aspect
anything but judicial, there was no change
which could have marked the emergency like this.
It was apparent that in Mrs. Penton's mind a
moment had arrived at which some important
decision had to be come to, and for which she
herself and not her husband was the natural

president of the family council. The young ones
were a little awed by this unusual proceeding.
There was not a stocking, nor a needle, nor even
a reel of cotton thin reach of her. She had
given herself up to the question in hand. It
might be supposed that the decision about Pen-ton,
which she took her share in powerfully,
while considering all the time how to do that
darning, was as important a matter as could
come within her ken ; but in her own opinion
the present issue was more exciting. She had
taken that calmly enough, though with decision ;
but about this she was excited and anxious,
scarcely able to restrain herself. The girls ran
in, saying,

What is it, mother?' but she only motioned
to them to sit down and wait ; and it was
not till Walter had followed with the same
question that Mrs. Penton cleared her throat
and spoke.

'It is a letter I have just had,' she said 'I
have not even talked it over with your father.
You were the first to be consulted, for it concerns
you.'

And then she stopped to take breath, and
slowly unfolded her letter.

This,' she said, 'is from Mrs. Russell Penton.
It is an  invitation ; for two of you : to go to
Penton upon a visit  for three days.'

There was a joint exclamation  joint in the
sense that the sound came all together, like a
piece of concerted music, but each voice was
individual. ' An invitation  to Penton !' cried
Anne. ' From Cousin Alicia V said Ally ; and
Not if 1 know it !' Walter cried ; from which it
will be seen that the one quite impartial, and
ready to consider the matter on its merits, was
Anne alone.

Don't come to any hasty decision,' said Mrs.
Penton, hurriedly ; * don't let it be settled by
impulse, children, which is what you are so
ready to do.'

Surely,' said Walter, ' when it's a mere
matter of amusement, impulse is as good a way
of deciding as another. I say " Not if I know it,"
and that is all I mean to say.'

And unless you say I'm to go, mother, I
think Hke Wat,' said Ally, with unusual courage.

'Children, children! In the first place it's
not amusement, and your cousin has never
asked you before. She is a great deal richer, a
great deal better off than we are. Stop a little,
Ally and Wat. I don't say that as if being rich
was everything : but it is a gi-eat deal. You
will meet better society there than anywhere
else. And, even though your father is going to
part with Penton, you never can separate yourselves
from it. We shall be called Pentons of
Penton always, even though we never enter the
house.'

Mother,' said Wat, ' you don't feel perhaps
as I do ; that is the best of reasons why I should
never enter the house. So long as I was the
heir, if they had chosen to ask me it might have
been my duty ; but NOW  ' cried Wat, his voice
rising as if into a salvo of artillery. Unutterable
things were included in that  now.'

'Now,' said his mother, 'because we are
giving up, because we are leaving the place,
so to speak, it is now much more necessary
than ever it was. Your cousins have done
nothing that is wrong. They don't mean to

injure you ; they are doing a very natural
and a very sensible thing. Oh, I am not going
to argue the question all over again ; but
unless you wish to insult them, to show you care
nothing for them, that their advances are disagreeable
to you, and that you don't want their

kindness '

Mother,' said Walter, ' not to interrupt you,
that is exactly what I want to do.'

And Ally had her soft face set. It did not
seem that the little face, all moveable and impressionable,
could have taken so fixed a form,
as if it never would change again.

You want to insult the people, Walter, who
are, to begin with, your own flesh and blood.'

Cousins  and not full cousins  are scarcely
so near as that,' said Anne, with an air of impartial
calm.

'To insult anybody is bad enough, if they
were strangers to you  if they were your
enemies. What can be nearer than cousins except
brothers and sisters ? I say, Mrs. Russell
Penton is your own flesh and blood, and I don't
think it is very nice of you, on a subject which

I must know better than you do, to contradict
me. Your father calls Sir Walter uncle. How
much nearer could you be 1 And if you livelong
enough, Wat, you will be Sir Walter after
him. In one sense it is being grandson to the
old gentleman, who lost his own taro sons, as you
know well enough. And is it him you would
like to insult, Wat V

This made an obvious and profound impression.
The audience were awed ; their mutinous
spirit was subdued. The domestic orator pursued
her advantage without more than a pause
for breath.

I never knew the boys : but when I saw
the Pentons first everybody was talking of it.
Your father had never expected to succeed, oh,
never I It was a tragedy that opened the way
for him. They had no reason to expect that a
young cousin, a distant cousin' (this admission
was no doubt contradictory of what she had just
said, but it came in with her present argument,
and she did not pause upon that), ' should ever
come in. If they had hated the very sight of
those who were to take the place of their own,

who could wonder? I should if oh, Wat, if
it were possible that Osy and you '  she
paused a little  ' I feel as if I should hate Horry
even in such a case.'

The impression deepened, especially as she
stopped, with a low cry, to wring her hands,
as if realising that impossible catastrophe.
Walter was entirely overawed. He saw the unspeakable
pathos of the situation in a moment.
Supposing Horry  Horry! should come in to
be the heir, something having happened to
Oswald and to himself !

Don't agitate yourself, mother,' he said,
soothingly ; ' I see what you mean.'

'And yet you would like to insult these poor
people, to refuse to see how hard it was for
them, and what they have had to bear, oh, for
so many years I'

Having thus broken down all opposition,
Mrs. Penton made a pause, but presently
resumed.

'And then from our side, children, there's
something to be said. I wish you to accept the
invitation. I wish it because after all it's your

own county, and you're of an age to be seen,
and you ought to be seen first there. When all
this is settled, your father will be in a position
to take you into society a little. We shall be
able to see our friends. If I have never gone
out, it has been for that  that I could not invite
people back again. Now I may have it in my
power more or less to do this. And I want you
to be known  I want you to be seen and
known. It is of great importance where young
people are seen first. I can't take you to court,
Ally, which is the right thing, for we never
were in circumstances to do that ourselves.
And the next best thing is that you should be seen
first in the house of the head of your family.
Now all that is very important, and it has got
sense in it, and you must not allow an impulse,
a hasty little feeling, to get the better of what
is sensible and reasonable  you must not indeed.
It would be very unkind to me, very foolish for
yourselves, very harsh and unsympathetic to
the Pentons. And you have a duty to all these.
To them? oh, yes, to them too, for they are
your relations and they are old, and though

they are prosperous now, things went very
badly with them once. Besides, it would be
as if you disapproved of what your father was
doing and envied them Penton ; which I suppose
is the last thing in the world you would
have them to see.'

Disapproving father is one thing,' said Wat,
but all the rest I do, and I don't care if they
know it or not. Penton ought to be mine.
You and my father don't think so  at least you
think there are other things more important.'

Mrs. Penton looked at her boy from her husband's
judicial chair with a mild dignity with
which Wat was unacquainted.

Penton would not be yours,' she said, ' if Sir
Walter were dead now. Would you like to
step into what is your father's, Wat ? Would
you like to say he is only to live five or ten
years because the inheritance is yours ? Your
father will probably live as long as Sir Walter.
I hope so, I am sure. He is fifty now, and that
would be thirty-five years hence. Would
Penton be yours, or would you be impatient for
your father to die V

Mother !' they all cried, in one indignant
outcry, the three together.

It looks as if yon meant that. You don't, I
know  but it looks like it. Sir Walter mayas
well live ten years longer, and your father
thirty years after that, so that you would be
sixty before you succeeded to Penton. Is it so
much worth waiting for? Is it worth while
showing yourself envious, dissatisfied with what
your father is doing, unkind to your relations,
because, forty or fifty years hence, perhaps  '

Walter got up from his chair, as a man is
apt to do when the argument becomes intolerable.


Mother,' he said, ' you know very well that
not one of those intentions was in my mind. I
don't want to become bosom friends with people
who are injuring us for their own advantage ;
but as to wishing my father a single hour, a
single moment less  or even Sir Walter  ' the
youth cried, vith a break in his voice.

Oh cried Anne, with impatience, * as if
mother did not know that ! Mother, the others
are dreadfully unreasonable. I'll go.'

Mrs. Penton paused a little and cleared her
throat.

I am afraid you are just the one that is not
asked. I daresay your cousin thinks that you
are not out, Anne : and no more you are, my
dear.'

She is as much out as I am, and we have
always said when we went anywhere we
should go together. Mother, if you wish it, of
course I'll go.'

'And equally of course I will go too,' said
Walter, somewhat indignant to be left out, ' when
my mother puts it like that.'

Well, children dear,' said Mrs. Penton, sinking
at once into an easier tone, ' how could I
put it otherwise? As long as you will go
pleasantly and friendly, and make no reflections.
It is such a natural thing, so right, so exactly
what should be, both for them to ask and for you
to accept. Well, now,' she added, briskly,
coming down from her high chair, drawing
forward her own natural seat, putting out an
accustomed hand for her work-basket, ' now that
this is all settled there are the preparations to

think of. Walter, you must go up at once to
your father's tailor  to his grand tailor, you
know, whom he only goes to now and then  and
order yourself some new suits.'

Some new suits I' they all cried, with widely
opened eyes.

Yes,' said sirs. Penton, who had never been
known to enter into any such schemes of extravagance
before. ' Indeed, we may all go to town
together, for I must look after Ally's things, and
there is no time to be lost.'

My  things, mother !' The plural in loth
cases was what petrified the young people, who
had been used to get only what could not be
done without.

You must have a nice tweed suit for the
morning, AVat, and some dress clothes, and your
father will tell you whether you should get any
other things for Oxford, for of course I am not
an authority as to what young men require.
And it is so long since I have seen anything that
is fashionable,' said Mrs. Penton, ' that I don't
really know even what girls wear. Girls are
really more troublesome than boys, so far as

dress is concerned. You can trust a good tailor,
but as to what is exactly suitable to a girl's complexion
and style, and the details, you know 
the shoes, and the gloves, and the fans, and all
that '

'Mother!' cried Ally. The girl was awestricken
; pleasure had scarcely had time to spring
up in her. She was overwhelmed with the
glories which she had never realised before.

Yes, my dear ; there are a great many things
involved in a girl's toilet which you would never
think of ; the dress is not all, nor nearly all. I
have been so long out of the world, I have not
even seen what people are wearing; but it will be
easy to get a few hints. And what if we make
a day of it, and go to town all together ? Anne
shall come too, though Anne is not going to Pen-ton.
I don't often allow myself a holiday,' said
Mrs. Penton, with her hands full of pinafores,
but 1 think I must do so for once in a way.'

The idea of this wonderful outing, which was
much more comprehensible, besides being far
more agreeable, than the visit to Penton, filled
them all with pleasure.

For we know that will be fun !' said Anne.
Penton, I wish you joy of it, you two ! You
will have to be on your best behaviour, and
never do one thing you wish to do. I shall have
the best of it  the day in town, and the shopping,
which must be amusing, and to see everything ;
and then when you are setting out for Penton,
and feeling very uncomfortable, I shall stay at
home, and be the eldest, and be very much looked
up to. Mother, when shall we go?'

And oh, mother I how, how '

Is it to be paid for, do you want to know.
Ally? My dear, we are going to have four
times as much income as we ever had before.
Thinly of that! And can you wonder I am
glad ? for I shall be able to do things for all of
you that I never dared think of, and instead of
only having what you couldn't do without 
enough to keep you decent  I can now give
you what is right for you and best for you. Oh,
my dears, you can't tell what a difference it
makes ! What is a place like Penton (which I
never cared for at all) in comparison with being
able to get whatever they want for your

VOL. I. T

children ? There is no comparison. It has
not come yet, it is true, for the papers are
not ready, but still it is quite certain. And I
can venture to take you to town for a day, and
we can all venture to enjoy ourselves a little.
And I am sure I am very much obliged to Mrs.
Russell Penton for taking such a thing into her
head.'

To this even the grumblers had nothing to
say ; even Wat himself, who perhaps was less
impressed by the idea of two new suits from the
tailor's than his sisters were about their new
frocks. A new suit of evening clothes can
scarcely be so exciting to a boy as the thought
of a ball dress, with all its ribbons and flowers
and decorations, and those delightful adjuncts of
shoes and gloves and fan all in harmony, is to a
girl. Ally's imagination was so startled by it
that she could scarcely realise the thought in
any practical way, and her enjoyment was
nothing to Anne's, who mapped it all out in her
mind, and already began to suggest to her sister
what she should have, with a perception which
must have been instinct; since Anne had not

even that knowledge of an evening-party which
any one of the maids who had assisted at such
ceremonials might possess, though in a humble
way. Martha, for instance, in her last place, had
helped to dress the young ladies when they were
going out, and had got a glimpse of Paradise in
the cloak-room when her former mistress had a
ball. But, alas ! such possibilities had never
come to Ally and Anne. They knew nothing
about the fineries in which girls indulged.
Anne, however, by intuition, whatever the philosophers
may say, knew, never having learned.
Perhaps she had got a little information to guide
her out of novels, of which, in a gentle way,
Mrs. Penton herself was fond, and which had
opened vistas of society to the two girls.

You must have a white, of comes,' she said
to her sister, ' blues and pinks, and that sort of
thing may go out of fashion, but white never.
Mother thinks you must have two.'

'We are only asked for three days,' cried
Ally, ' and that only means two evenings. Why
should I have more than one dress for only two
evenings V

T 2

\Nhy, just for that reason, you silly !' cried
Anne. ' Do you think mother would like to send
you to Penton with just what was necessary, to
make them think you had only one frock ? Oh,
no ! If you were staying for a fortnight of
course you would not want something different
every night ; but for two days '

I should much rather you had the second
one, Anne.'

I daresay ! as if there was any question about
me. I shall have what I require when my time
comes. Don't you know we are going to be
well off now V

Oh, Anne ! it is rather poor to think of being
well off only as a way of getting new frocks.'

It is a great deal more than that, of course,
but still it is that too. It is nice to have new
frocks when one wants them, instead of waiting
and waiting till one can have the cheapest
possible thing that will do. We have always
had things that would do. Now we are to have
what we require  what we like. I wish Wat and
you. Ally, would see it as mother and I do.
Perhaps it may be nice to be the chief people of

one's name, and be able to snub all the rest, even

Cousin Alicia, but '

I never \-ished to snub anyone, much less
Cousin Alicia,' cried Ally, with indignation.

That is really what it comes to. We wanted
to be the grandest of the family, to be able to
say to Mrs. Russell Penton, " Stand aside, you're
only a woman, and let Sir Edward walk in."
And why should she be disinherited because
she's a woman? I am going in for women, for
the woman's side. I don't believe father is as
clever as she is. Oh, to be sure, I like father a
great deal better. How could you ask such a
question ? But he rather looks up to her ; he is
not so clever ; he couldn't set one down as she
does, only by a look out of her eyes. Xo, no,
no ; a new frock when one wants it, and to go to
town for the day, and even to the theatre, or to
have a dance at home  all that is far, far better
than snubbing Cousin Alicia. But,' added
Anne, with sudden gravity, ' for you that have
got to go and stay there, it is rather dreadful
after all.'

CHAPTER XVI.

THE PRIMROSE PATH.

Walter Penton had been the most satisfactory
of sons and brothers. He had not rebelled much
even against the discipline of reading aloud.
He was only twenty, and there was nothing todo
in the neighbourhood of the Hook, especially
in the evening, so that circumstances had helped
to make him good. He had, to tell the truth,
taken a great interest in the novels, so much as
to be tempted often to carry off the current
volume and see *how it ended,' by himself,
which the girls thought very mean of him. But
very rarely, except in summer, or when there
was some special attraction out-of-doors, had he
declined to aid the progress of the pinafores, in

his way, by reading. But lately he had not
been so good. Perhaps it was because there
was a moon, and the evenings had been particularly
bright ; but he had not asked the girls
to share his walks, as formerly it had been so
natural to do. Sometimes he did not come into
the drawing-room at all after tea, but would
intimate that he had ' work ' to do, especially
now, when, if he were really going to Oxford, it
was necessary for him to rub up his Greek a
little. Nobody could say that this was not
perfectly legitimate, and in fact laudable ; and,
though the ladies were disappointed, they could
make no complaint, especially as, in the general
quickening of the family life, there was, for the
moment, many things to talk of, which made
reading aloud less necessary.

For instance, on the evening of the day which
they had spent in town, there was no occasion
for reading. The most exciting romance could
not have been more delightful than the retrospect
of that delightful day. They all went up
together by the early train. Mr. Pent on himself
had said that he thought he might as well

go too, and accompany Walter to the tailor's, as
that was a place in which ladies were inadmissible
; and accordingly they parted at the railway,
the mother and the girls going one way, and
the father and his boy another  both parties
with a sense of the unusual about them which
made their expedition exhilarating.

To spend money when you feel (and that for
the first time) that you can afford it is of itself
exhilarating, especially (perhaps) to women who
have little practice in this amusement, and to
whom the sight of the pretty things in the shops
is a pleasure of a novel kind. It was a matter
of very serious business indeed to the ladies,
carrying with it a profound sense of responsibility.
Two evening dresses, for a girl who had
never had anything better than the simplest
muslin ! and a ' costume ' for morning wear of
the most complete kind, with everything in
keeping, jacket and hat and gloves. The acquisition
of this could scarcely be called pleasure.
It was too solemn and important, a thing the
accomplishment of which carried with it a
certain sensation of awe ; for what if it should

not be quite in the fashion ? what if it should be
too much in the fashion ? too new, too old, not
having received the final approval of those
authorities which rule the world 1 Sometimes a
thing may be very pretty, and yet not secure
that verdict; or it may be mal porte, as the
French say, worn first by some one whose adoption
of it is an injury.

All these things have to be considered ; and
when the purchasers are country people, ignorant
people, who do not know what is going to be
worn ! So that the responsibility of the business
fully equalled its pleasantness, and it was
only Avhen the more important decisions were
made, and the attention of the buyers, at too
high a tension in respect to other articles, came
down to the lighter and easier consideration of
ribbons and gloves, that the good of the expedition
began to be fully enjoyed.

And then they all had luncheon together,
meeting when their respective business was
executed. Mr. Penton took them to a place
which was rather a dear place, which he had
known in his youth, when all the places he had

known were dear places. It was, perhaps, a
little old-fashioned too, but this they were not
at all aware of. And the lunch he had ordered
was expensive, as Mrs. Penton had divined.
She said as much to the girls as they drove
from their shop to the rendezvous. She said,

I know your father will order the very dearest
things.' And so he had ; but they enjoyed
it all the more. It was such a thing as had
never happened in all their previous experience
; a day in town, a day shopping, and then
a grand luncheon and a bottle of champagne.

If we are going to be so much better off,
they may as well get the good of it,' Mr. Penton
replied, in answer to his wife's half-hearted remonstrance.


For she too found a pleasure in the extravagance.
Her protest was quite formal : she too
was quite disposed for it once in a way  just tolet
them know, in the beginning of their mended
fortune, what a little pleasure was.

And when they came home, bringing sugar-plums
and a few toys for the young ones, they
were all a Httle tired with this unusual, this extraordinary

dissipation. After tea the pinafores
did not make much progress; they were too
much excited to care to go on with their reading.
They wanted to talk over everything and
enjoy it a second time more at their leisure.
They had shaken off the sense of responsibility,
and only felt the pleasure of the holiday, which
was so rare in their life. Mr. Penton himself
was seduced into making comparison of the
London of which they had thus had a flying
glimpse with the London he had known in the
old days, and into telling stories of which somehow
the point got lost hi the telling, but which
had been, as he said , 'very amusing at the times
while the girls listened and laughed, not at his
stories so much as out of their own consciousness
that it had all been 'fun,' even the inconveniences
of the day, and the prosiness of those
inevitable tales.

Mrs. Penton was the one who subsided most
easily out of the excitement. But for a little
look of complacence, an evident sense that it
was she who had procured them all this pleasure,
there was less trace in her than in any of the

others of the day's outing. She drew her work-basket
to her as usual after tea. She was not
to be beguiled out of her evening's work ; but
she smiled as she went on with her darning,
and listened to the father's stories, and the saucy
commentaries of the girls, with a happy abandonment
of all authority in consideration of the
unusual character of the day. The only thing
that brought a momentary shadow over the
party was that Walter was not there.

There is no moon to-night, but Wat is off
again for one of his walks. I wonder what has
made him so fond of walks, just when we want
him at home f the girls cried. And then a little
mist came over his mother's eyes. She said,
Hush ! he is probably at his Greek ;' but
whether she believed this or not nobody could
say.

Walter, it need scarcely be said, was not at
his Greek. He went up the road towards the
village with long strides devouring the way,
though there was no moon nor any visible
inducement. The village was as quiet a spot
as could be found in all England. The only

lights it showed were in a few cottage windows,
or glimmering from behind the great holly-bushes
at the rectory ; a little bit of a straggling
street, with an elbow composed of a dozen Kettle
houses, low and irregular, which streamed away
towards the dark and silent fields, with the
church, the natural centre, rising half seen, a
dark little tower pointing upward to the clouds.
There was scarcely anyone about, or any movement
save at the public-house, where what was
quite an illumination in the absence of other
lights  the red glow of the fire, and the reflection
of a lamp through a red curtain  streamed
out into the road, making one warm and animated
spot in the gloom.

Wat, however, did not go near that centre of
rustic entertainment. He stopped at a low wall
which surrounded a cottage on the outskirts 
a cottage which had once been white, and had
still a Httle greyness and luminousness of aspect
which detached it from the surrounding darkness.
A few bristling dry branches of what was in
summer a bit of hedge surrounded the low
projection of the wall. Walter paused there,.

where there was nothing visible to pause for.
The night was dark. A confused blank of
space, where in daylight the great stretch of the
valley lay, was before him, sending from afar a
fresh breath of wind into his face, while behind
him, in the nearer distance, shone the few
cottage lights, culminating in the red glow from
the * Penton Arms.'

What did he want at this corner with his back
against the wall ? Nothing, so far as anyone
could see. He made no signal, gave forth no
sound, save that occasionally his feet made a
stir on the beaten path as he changed his
position.

They got tired, but Walter himself was not
tired. Presently came the faint sound of a
door opening, and a flitting of other feet  light,
short steps that scarcely seemed to touch the
ground  and then the gate of the little garden
clicked, and, heard, not visible, something came
out into the road.

Oh, are you here again, Mr. Walter ? Why
have you come again ? You know I don't want
you here.'

Why shouldn't you want me ? I want to come ;
it's my pleasure.'

The voice of the young man had a deeper
tone, a manlier bass than its usual youthful
lightness coming through the dark, and the
great space and freedom of the night.

It's a strange pleasure,' said the other voice.
I should not think it any pleasure were I in
your place. If even there was a moon I for
people that are fond of the beauties of nature
that is always something. But now it is so
dark'  there seemed a sort of shiver in the
voice. ' The dark is a thing I can't abide, as
they say here.'

For my part, I like it best. Come this wa',
where the view is, and you would think you
could see it  that is, you can feel it, which is
almost more. Don't you know what I mean ?
The wind blows from far away ; it comes from
miles of space, right out of the sky. You could
feel even that the landscape was below you
from the feel of the air.'

That is all very pretty,' she said, and this
time there was the indication of a yawn in her

tone, ' but if it is only for the sake of the landscape,
one can see that when it's day, and feeling
it is a superfluity in the dark. If that was
all you came for '

I did not come for that at all, as you know.
I came for  it would be just the same to me if
there was no landscape at all, if it was a street
corner '

Under a lamp-post ! Oh, that is my ideal !'
with a little clap of her hands. ' What I would
give to see a lamp again, a bright clear, big
Hght, like Oxford Street or the Circus I You
think that vulgar, I know.'

Nothing is vulgar if you like it. I should like
lamp-posts too if they had associations. I saw
plenty of them to-day, and I wished I could
have had you there to take you for a walk past
the shop windows, since you are so fond of
them.'

Oh, the shop-windows ! Don't talk to a poor
exile of her native country that she is pining
for ! So you were in town ; and what did you
see there V

Nothing,' said Wat.

'Nothing!  in London! You must be the
very dullest, or the most obstinate, or prejudiced
Nothing ! why, everything is there I'

You were not there ; that makes all the difference.
I kept thinking all the time where I
should have found you had you been in London.
You never will tell me where you live, or how I
can see you when you go back.'

I am not going back yet, worse luck,' she
said.

But that is no answer. I kept looking out
to-day to see if I could find any place which
looked as if you might have lived there. The
only place I saw like you was in Park Lane, and
that, I suppose '

Park Lane !' she cried, with a suppressed
laugh ; ' that was like old Rochford's niece. I
could receive all my relations then.'

You are not old Rochford's niece V

No, I told you  I am a heroine in trouble,'
she said. Her laugh was perhaps a little forced,
but if Walter observed that at all it only increased
the interest and fascination of such a
paradox as might have startled a wiser man.

VOL. I. U

And is town very empty V she said. ' But the
streets will be gay and the shop windows bright
because of Christmas  there is always a little
movement before Christmas, and things going
on. And to think that I should see nothing 
not so much as a pantomime  buried down
here !'

I thought most people came to the country
for Christmas,' said Wat.

'Oh, the sw ; why shouldn't I say it

right out ?  the swells, you mean ; but we are
not swells in my place. We enjoy ourselves
with all our hearts.'

I am sorry you think it so dull in the country,'
said poor Wat. ' I wish you liked it better.
If you had been brought up here, like me  but
of course that is impossible. Perhaps when you
get better used to it '

I shall never be used to it : I am on the outlook,
don't you know? for some one to take me
back.'

Don't say that,' said Walter, ' it hurts me so.
I should like to reconcile you tc this place, to

make you fond of it, so that you should prefer
to stay here.'

With whom ? with old Rochford f she said.

Walter was very young, and trembled with
the great flood of feeling that came over him.
Oh, if I only had a palace, a castle, anything
that was good enough for you ! but I have
nothing  nothing you would care for. That is
what makes it odious beyond description, what
makes it more than I can bear.'

What is more than you can bear T

Losing Penton,' cried the young man ; ' I
told you. If Penton were still to be mine I
know what I should say. It is not a cottage
like Rochford's, nor a poor muddy sort of place
Hke the Hook. It is a house worthy even of
such as you. But I am like the disinherited
knight, I have nothing till I work for it.'

That is a gi-eat pity,' she said ; ' I have seen
Penton ; it is a beautiful place. It seems silly,
if you have a right to it, to give it up.'

You think so too V he cried ; ' I might have
known you would have thought so ; but I am

u2

only my father's son, and they don't consult me.
If I had anyone to stand by me, I might have
resisted  anyone else, whose fortune was bound
up in it as well as mine.'

Yes : what a pity in that case that you were
not married,' she said.

I might be still,' cried Walter, with tremulous
vehemence, ' if you would have faith in
me  if you would forget what I am, a nobody,
and think what, with such a hope, I
might be.'

I !' there was a sound of mocking in the
laughing voice ; ' what have I got to do with it ?
What would those great swells at Penton think
if they knew you Avere saying such things to
old Rochford's niece V

It is they who have nothing to do with it.'
he cried. ' Do you think if you were to trust
me that I should care what they  But oh,
don't, don't call yourself so, you know it is not
true ; not that it matters if you were. You
would to me, all the same, be always yourself,
and that means everything that a woman can
be.'

There was a pause before she replied, and
her voice was a little softened.

They will never know anything about meat
Penton, or anywhere else. I have come herein
the dark ; you have scarcely seen me in daylight
at all, for all you are so silly.'

'Yes, a hundred times,' cried "Walter. 'Do
you think you can go out that I don't see you ?
I live about the roads since you have been
here.'

It is a pity,' she said, \-ith a little sharpness,
'that you have nothing better to do ;' then, resuming
her lighter tone, ' If you don't soon
begin to do something a little more practical,
how are you ever to be  that somebody which
you were offering to me V

It is true,' he said, ' it is true ; but don't
blame me. I am going to Oxford next month,
and then, if I do not work  '

'To Oxford: But that's not work, that's
only education,' she cried, with a faint mixture
of something like disappointment in her voice.

Education is work ; it opens up everything.
It gives a man a name. I have been kept back ;

but, oh, now, if you will say I may look forward
if you will say I may hope.'

Look forward to what V she said ; * to come
up here every evening, and invite me out to
talk in the cold at the corner of old Rochford's
wall ? I do not mind, for I've nothing else to
amuse me now : and you have nothing else to
amuse you, so far as I can see ; but presently I
shall disappear like a Will-o'-the-wisp, and what
will you look forward to then V

That is what I say,' he said. ' I feel it everyday.
You will go away, and what am I to do,
where am I to find you ? Every morning when
I wake it is the first thing I think of  perhaps
she may be gone, and not a trace, not an
indication left behind, not even a name.'

Oh, it is not so bad as that. You know my
name, bnt I tell you always it is a great deal
better you should know no more, for what is the
use % You are going to Oxford, where you will
be for years and years before you can do anything.
And at present you are the disinherited
knight and I am a will-o'-the-wisp. Very well.
We play about a little and amuse each other.

and then you will ride off and 1 shall dance
away.'

No, no, no ; for the sake of pity, if not
love  '

What has a will-o'-the-svisp to do with
these sort of things, or a young man at college ?
At college ! it is only a schoolboy a little
bigger. Ride off, ride off, sir disinherited
knight ; and, as for me, it's my part to go dancing,
dancing away.'

And she was gone, disappearing with no
sound but the little click of the gate, the pat
of those footsteps which scarcely touched the
ground, snatching from him the hand which he
had tried to take, the hand which he had never
yet been allowed to hold for a moment. He
stood for a time at the corner of the wall,
tantalised, tremulous, trying to persuade himself
that she was not really gone, that she would
appear again, a shadow out of the darkness.
This was all he had seen of her except in distant
glimpses, although their intercourse had
gone so far. He was ready to pledge his life to
her, and yet this was all he knew.

Walter thought to himself as he went slowly
down the hill, all thrilling with this interview, that
never had there been such a courtship before.
He was proud of it, poor boy. There was
something rapturous in its strangeness, in the
fact that he did not even know her name,
nothing but Emmy, which he had heard Martha
call her. Emmy did not mean much, yet it was
all he knew. He called her in his heart by
names out of the poets  Una, Rosalind, Elaine.
She was as much a creature of romance as any
of them. He dreamt, in those sweet dreams
awake which are the privilege of youth, of
seeing her flash out upon him from unimaginable
surroundings, a princess, a peerless lady, something
noble and great, something not to be put
on the level of ordinary women. What she
was doing in this cottage he scarcely asked
himself  she who belonged to so different a
sphere. But it was sweet to him to think
that his love was so original, unlike that of anyone
else. His head was full of an intoxication
of pleasure, of pride and wonder. Nobody had
ever had such a story. Ah, if he had but

Penton to take her home to ! But anyhow he
could conquer fortune for the sake of this see
unknown.

This was how Walter spent his evenings while
the others sat round the household lamp. He
had the best of it. While Ally was thinking
only of the visit to Penton, or at least of nothing
else that she allowed even to herself, Wat, only
two years older, felt himself standing on the
threshold of an illimitable future full of everything
that was wonderful and sweet.

CHAPTER I.

GOING INTO THE WORLD.

It was near Christmas when Walter and Ally
went to Penton on the visit which had caused
so much excitement. It had been arranged
that on Christmas Eve they should return, for to
spend that day away from their family was impossible,
a thing not to be done had the invitation
come from Royalty itself. They went withall
their new things so nicely packed, and their
hearts beating, and many warnings and recommendations
from the most careful of mothers.
Wat, be careful that you never, never let
VOL. II. B

them see, if it was only by a look, that you do
not agree with what your father is doing. You
must not let him down among his relations.
You must let them see that what he does  Oh,
Wat, you must be very particular to show a
proper pride. Don't look as if you had au}
grudge ; don't let them suppose '

I hope I am not quite a fool,' said the indignant
youth.

A fool ! I never thought you were a fool ;
but you are young, my dear boy, and you feel
strongly. And, Ally ! mind you don't show you
are unaccustomed to the sort of service and
waiting upon that is natural there. If your
cousin offers to send her maid to help you, don't
you come out with, " Oh, no ; 1 do everything
for myself at home." I don't want you to say
anything that is not true. But, as a matter of
fact, you don't do everything for yourself at
home. What does it matter to Mrs. Russell
Penton whether you have a maid or whether it
is Anne and I that help you ? You always are
helped, you know. Say, " Ob, I think I can
manage quite well," or something of that sort.'

But, mother, Cousin Alicia must know how
we Eve, and that I have no maid at home.'

Oh, they never think, these great ladies ;
they take it for granted that everybody has
everything just as they have. Most probably
she would think it was my fault if you had no
maid. And, Ally! don't be so shy as you
usually are ; don't keep behind backs ; remember
that the only thing you can do for people
who wish you to stay with them is to be as
friendly as possible, and to talk, and help to
amuse them.'

I  to amuse Cousin AHcia, mother !'

lyell, dear, as much as you can. Amuse
perhaps is not the word : but you must not sit
as if you were cut out of wood or stone. And,
AVat ! if there is shooting or anything going on,
just do what the other gentlemen do. I have
always heard that Mr. Russell Penton was very
nice ; you will be quite right if you keep your
eye upon him.'

One would think we were going to court,
where there are all kinds of etiquettes, to hear
you speak, mother.'

B 2

Well, my dears, there are all sorts of etiquettes
everywhere ; and in one way it is easier at
court, for if you don't understand there is nothing
wonderful in that, and everyone is willing
to tell you : Whereas in a grand house you are
supposed to know everything by nature. I
don't doubt at all that things will go on quite
comfortably and all right. But, Ally dear '

'Mother, don't bother her any more,' cried
Anne. ' She will be so frightened she will
never venture to open her lips at all, for fear she
should say something wrong. I wish it was
only me.'

Oh, so do I,' cried Ally, from the bottom of
her heart.

'And I,' said Wat; 'anyone may have my
share.'

That is just how things are  always contrary,
as Martha says. 1 should have rather enjoyed
it. I should have liked to see everything.
Cousin Alicia might have put on her icy face as
much as she liked, she would not have frozen
me. But we can't change places now at the
last moment, and the fly will have to be paid for

if it waits. Come, AII3", come ! for sooner or
later you know you must go.'

Anne and her mother stood and watched the
reluctant pair as they drove away with a mingled
sense of envy and relief. The fly from the
village was not a triumphal chariot ; the grey
horse had a dilapidated aspect ; the day was
damp and rainy.

We may be afloat before you come back
said Anne, waving her hand.

And then they left the door and the house
out of sight, and departed into the unknown.
Into the unknown ! If it had been to Russia it
would not have been farther away, nor could the
habits and customs of a foreign country have
been more alarming to the young adventurers.
They were so much overawed that they said
little to each other. Ally drew back into the
corner of the carriage, Walter looked out of the
opposite window. They were in a moment
separated by half a world, though the same rug
was tucked round both their knees.

The boy looked out with an eagerness
which he could scarcely conceal for something

tangible, something of which his mind was full.
The girl drew back into a vague, delightful
world of dreams in which there was nothing
definite. Who was it that had said to her
something about driving up unthinking to a
door within which you might meet your fate ?
Who was it ? she asked herself, and yet she remembered
very well who it was : and as she
drove along there rose before her a whole
panorama of shifting, changing pictures. She
was standing again by the muddy, turbid river,
and hearing, as in a dream, the first words of
wooing, the suggested devotion, the under-current
of an inference which made her the chief
interest, the centre of the world ; which is such
a thing as may well startle any girl into attention.
And then the scenery changed, and the
world opened, and other, vaguer figures, yet
more wonderful, appeared about her, some of
them with that same look in their eyes.

How did Ally know what might be waiting
for her in that home of romance, that wonderful
house of Penton, with which all the visions of
her life had been connected? Sometimes when

one is not thinking one drives up to a door and
finds inside one's fate. AVhat does that mean 
one's fate ? Young Rochford had given her to
understand that he had found his when he
arrived at Penton Hook, and the words had
vaguely seized upon Ally's imagination, filling
her with a curious thrill of sensation. His fate I
She did not think of this A\'ith compunction or
regret, as one who more thoroughly recognised
what was meant might have done. It moved
her rather to an excited, half-awed sense of
power in herself which she did not understand
before, than to any sympathy for him. She
thought in the keen consciousness of awakening
of herself, and not of him. It was wrong ; it
was a guilty sort of selfishness ; but she could not
help it. His words which had first opened her
eyes  his looks, which perhaps a little earlier
had lighted a spark of perception, had been like
the sounding of the reveille  like the rising of a
morning star. She was not to blame for it ; she
had done nothing which could connect her with
his fate, as he called it. It was a summons to
her to behold and recognise her own position,

the wonderful, mysterious position, which a
woman  a girl  seemed to be born to, which
she had been thrust into without any doing of
hers.

When the fancy is first touched, the thoughts
that follow are sweet  sweeter perhaps than
anything that can succeed  in their perfectly
indefinite exhilaration and vague sense of a
personal beatitude that scarcely anything else
can bring. This does not always mean love,
which is a different effect. Ally knew nothing
about love ; she only felt in all her being the
new and wonderful power of awakening emotion
in others, of which nobody had ever told her,
and which she had never dreamt of as appertaining
to herself. She had read of it as being
possessed by others  by the beautiful maidens
of romance, by ladies moving in those dazzling
spheres of society which were altogether beyond
the reach and even the desires of a little
country girl.

But Ally knew very well that she was not a
great beauty, nor so clever and gifted as those
heroines were who in novels and romances

brought all the world to their feet. She entertained
no delusions on this subject. She was
not beautiful at all, nor clever at all. She was
only Ally : and yet she had it in her power to
bring that look into another's eyes. It was
more strange, more thrilling, sweet, confusing
than words could say.

As for Walter, his imaginations were far more
definite. They where very definite indeed, distant
as every anticipation was. He looked out
to see one figure, one face, which he could not
look out upon calmly, with a spectator by his
side, which he longed yet feared to behold in the
daylight, in the midst of a world awake and
observant, with Ally looking on. He expected
nothing but to be questioned on the
subject  to be asked what he was looking for,
why he leaned out of the window, what there
was to see.

When it dawned upon him that Ally meant
to ask no questions, that she had the air of taking
no notice, he became suspicious and uneasy,
thinking that she must mean something by her
silence, that there was more in it than met the

eye. By nature she would have asked him a
hundred questions. She would have looked,
too, wondering what he could possibly expect
to see on the road or in the village that could
be interesting. Walter said to himself that some
report must have reached home of those expeditions
of his to Rochford's cottage, and that Ally
must have been told to watch, not to excite his
suspicions by questioning, to be on the alert for
whatever might happen.

He turned his back to her and blocked up the
window with his head and shoulders as they
drove past Crockfords. And there, indeed, was
the face he longed to see looking from the
cottage window, staring at him maliciously,
with a smile which was not a smile of recognition,
defying him, as it seemed, to own the acquaintance.
A great panic was in Walter's heart.
To betray this secret, to make it visible to the
eyes of the world  i.e. to the old rector, who,
as ill-luck would have it, was strolling past at
the moment, taking his afternoon walk, and of
Ally watching him from her corner  was terrible
to the young man. And to expose himself to

be questioned  to be asked 'ho she was
(which he did not know), and where he had
met her, and a hundred other details ; perhaps
to be solemnly warned that he must see her no
more !

All these reflections flashed through Walter's
spirit. She was evidently in the mind to take
no notice of him, to own no acquaintance ; and
there were so many temptations on his side todo
the same, to make his eyes do all his salutations,
to avoid giving any satisfaction to the
spies about. But his instincts as a gentleman
were too much for "Walter. He leaned a little
farther out of the window and took off his hat.
How could he pass the place where she twas,
and look at her and make no sign ? It was
impossible ! Walter took off his hat with a
heroism scarcely to be surpassed on the
perilous breach. It might be ruin ; it might
mean discovery, betrayal ; he might be sent
away, banished from his gates of paradise ; but,
whatever happened, he could not be disrespectful
to her.

She did not return the salutation, but she

opened the window and looked out after the
carriage, putting out into the damp air what
Walter within himself called her beautiful head.
It was not strictly speaking a beautiful head,
but it had various elements of beauty  dark
eyes full of light ; a crop of soft brown silky
hair, clustering in curly short luxuriance ; a complexion
pale and clear, but lightly touched with
colour ; and a mouth Which was really a wonder
of a mouth beside the ordinary developments of
that universally defective feature. She looked
after him with mockery in her eyes, which only
attracted the foolish boy the more, and made
him half frantic to spring from his place in the
sight of the village and put himself at her feet.
It would have cost her nothing to give him a
smile, a wave of her hand ; and there was no
telling what it might cost him to have taken
off his hat to her; but she was immovable.
He gazed, as long as he could see anything,
out of the carriage window. At least, if he
had sacrificed himself he should get the good
of it, and look, and look, as long as eyes could
see.

'How d'ye do?  how d'ye do?' cried the
rector, waving his hand towards the carriage.
Perhaps he thought that the salutation was for
him, the old bat. Walter drew in his head
again, and looked with keen suspicion at his
sister in her corner, who raised her eyes, which
seemed heavy (could she have been asleep ?),
with a dreamy sort of smile, totally unlike the
smile of a spy maturing her observations, and
asked,

'Who was that r

Who was what V

The voice,' said Ally, 'in the street  " How
dedo?'"

It was the rector  who else should it be 1
Do you mean to say you did not see him going
along the road?'

No, I did not see him,' said Ally, with that
dreamy, imbecile sort of smile. She had seen
nothing, noticed nothing ! And the rector had
taken it for granted that the greeting had been
for himself, and thought young "Walter was
very civil ; and all had passed over with perfect
safety, as if it had been the most natural things

the world. Walter fell back into the other
corner, and thus the brother and sister swung
and jolted along, each in a beatitude and agitation
of his (and her) own. Perhaps there was a
subtle sort of sympathy in the silence. They
did not say anything to each other until they
had turned in at the gates, and were stumbling
along the avenue at Penton under the pine-trees,
all bare and moaning. This roused them
instinctively, although their dreams were more
absorbing than anything else in earth or
heaven.

Here we are at last,' said Ally, rousing herself,
but speaking under her breath.

Not yet ; don't you know the avenue is
nearly a mile long ? And don't be frightened 
remember what mother said.'

Oh, not frightened,' she cried, but caught
her breath a little. ' Wat, I wish it was over,
and we were going home.'

So do I, Ally : but we must go through with
it now we are here.'

Oh, I suppose so. Will she be waiting at
the door, do you think, or come to meet us ? or

will they tell us she is out, and offer to show us
our rooms, and send us tea V

As they do in novels to the poor relations ?
I hope they will have better taste,' said Walter,
growing red, 'than to try the poor relation
dodge with us. Oh, no I sirs. Russell Penton
knows that she is still more or less in our
power.'

1 wish the first was over,' said Ally ; ' it may
not perhaps seem so dreadful after that.'

And in this not ecstatic state of mind they
drew up at the door, where the footman who
came out looked with contempt at the shabby
village fly. Mrs. Russell Penton had been walking,
and was coming in at that moment, with a
little chubby-faced girl by her side. Cousin
Alicia and her companion took in every feature
of the shabby fly, the old horse, the driver with
his patched coat, as they came forward. It
was almost more dreadful than what Walter
called 'the poor relation dodge,' though Mrs.
Russell Penton was so civil as to come to the
door of the fly, which was difficult to open, to
receive her visitors. Already, before even they

entered the house, their poverty had thus been
put to shame. Neither of them, indeed, made
much account of the little round-faced stranger
who stood looking on, with her mouth a little
open, watching their disembarkation. Nothing
could look more insignificant than this little
girl did. She might have been a little waiting-maid,
an attendant, not smart enough for a
soubrette ; even Mrs. Russell Penton took no
notice, did not introduce her, but left her standing
as if she were of no importance, while she
herself conducted Ally upstairs. Walter himself,
in the confusion of the arrival, had. nearly
followed without thinking. But fortunately
(which was a great satisfaction to him afterwards)
that habit of good-breeding which would
not let him pass Rochford's cottage without
taking off his hat, inspired him to stand back,
and let the little maid, as he thought her, pass
in before him. She did this with a little blush
and shy bow, and ran through the hall out of
sight, as a little person in what was presumably
her position would do ; and Walter followed his
sister upstairs. He felt that there was nothing

to complain of in the matter of their reception,
at least. They were not being treated as poor
relations. Whatever might happen afterwards,
there was a certain soothing in that.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER 11.

PREPARATION FOR THE GUESTS.

The arrival of the visitors had not been unattended
with excitement at Penton itself.
Little Mab Russell, the great heiress, had reached
the house only a few days before, and, as her
uncle's stately wife was an object of some alarm
to her, the prospect of a companion of her
own age was doubly agreeable. Mab was the
daughter of a brother of Mr. Russell Penton's,
who had never been of much account in the
family, who had gone abroad and made a great
fortune, and died, leaving this one little girl rich
enough to cause a flutter in whatever society
she came into, as good as an estate, much better

than most appointments for any young man in
want of an establishment.

Russell Penton had taken from the first a
whimsical sort of interest in her, which did not
show itself in the way in which interest is usually
exhibited by elderly relations. To shield
her from fortune-hunters, to find some equal
match in which the advantage should not be
altogether on the gentleman's side, did not
seem to be a thing which entered into his
thoughts. He spoke of her with a faint laugh
full of humour and a realization of all the circumstances
such as few men would have made
apparent. With the charitable and amused eyes
of a man who had himself, being poor, married
an heiress, he looked at all the flutterers who
had already appeared in Mabel's youthful train.
He was tolerant of the young men. He laughed
half-abashed, half-sympathetic, at their little
wiles, asking himself had he made his intentions
so transparent as that? and putting forth his
little measures of defence without any of the
hard words that generally accompany such precautions.
When other people warned the little

c2

girl against the dangers to which she was subject
 and she had abbacy received many warnings
to this effect, even from Mrs. Russell Penton
herself, who was one of the most anxious of her
advisers  Mabel had been greatly comforted to
find that her uncle Gerald only laughed. The
little girl did not quite understand the combination
; for, when Gerald laughed, his wife grew
more grave than ever and anxious to protect
the heiress.

Why does Uncle Gerald laugh T she had
asked one day. And Mrs. Russell Penton had
grown very red, and said something about his
inclination to see a joke in the gravest subjects,
which Mabel, who was very fond of her uncle,
thought severe. And their several accounts
of the unexpected visitors perplexed her more
and more.

I hope, my dear,' Mrs. Russell Penton said,
that you will find my godchild pleasant. I can
give you very little information about her, I am
ashamed to say. We have been so much out of
England  and, though they are relations, they
are rather out of our sphere.'

'Poor,' said her husband, 'but not the less
agreeable for that.'

I would not go so far,* said Ahcia, in her
grave way. ' To be poor is of course nothing
against them, but unfortunately poverty does
affect the training, and manners, and ways of
thinking. I should have preferred not to have
them when you were here, but circumstances
which I could not resist '

It is kind of you, alicia, not to say over
which you had no control : for the circumstances,
T fear, were your unworthy uncle, Mab.
I wanted them ; and my wife, who is very good
always, and ready to please me, gave in, Which
is generally more than I deserve.'

Why did you want them. Uncle Gerald V
Mab inquired.

There is a big question !' he answered laughing
; ' am I to lay bare all my motives to this
little thing, and let her see the depths of my
thoughts?'

And why did Aunt Gerald not want them V
pursued Mab.

She had no genius or even much intelligence

to speak of; but the fact of being an heiress
has a very maturing influence, and Httle Mab
was aware of a thing or two which has not
been formulated in any philosophy. She inspected
the two people who were so much
older and wiser than she with very shrewd and
wide-open eyes.

'My motives are clear enough,' said Mrs.
Russell Penton, with a look at her husband
which would have been angry if she had not
Lad so much respect for him, and warning if she
had not known how impracticable he was. ' I
felt it my duty to your family, my dear, that
you should make no unsuitable acquaintances,
nor run the risk perhaps of contracting likings, I
mean friendships  I mean becoming perhaps
attached to people who would not prove to bethe
kind of people you ought to know : in my 
in our house.'

This very complicated sentence, so unlike the
lucidity of Mrs. Russell Penton's usual conversation,
was entirely due to the fact that her husband's
eyes, with a laugh in them, were upon

her all the time she was speaking. Mab exclaimed,
in astonishment,

But yom* relations, Aunt Gerald  I have always
heard that your family '

'I can scarcely say that these young people
belong to my family. They are the children of
a distant cousin. Their mother I scarcely know.
They have not been brought up as  you have
been, for instance. They will not know any of
the people you know. In short  but, of course,
as they will only be here for three days, it cannot
make much difference. Whatisit, Bowers
My father? '

Mrs. Russell Penton got up very reluctantly
to answer Sir Walter's summons. She gave her
husband an almost imploring look. She wanted
to do more than put the heiress on her guard
against these young people. She wanted Mab,
in fact, to be set against them. The idea of
any untoward complication happening, of the
Russell family having it in their power to
reproach her with inveighing their heiress into a
connection with one of her own name, was intolerable

to .Alicia, all the more from the circumstances
of her own marriage, which moved her
husband so entirely the other way.

One would think,' said little Mab, with her
shrewd look, ' that Aunt Gerald did not like her
relations ; but you, uncle, I think you do

This is a problem which your little wits are
scarcely able to solve unassisted,' he said,
'though you make very good guesses, Mab.
My wife is not fond of her relations because they
are her relations in the first place.'

Uncle Gerald !'

Such a statement is very crude and wants a
great deal of clearing up. You never heard
your aunt's story, did you, Mab V

Story r said Mab, faltering. 'I I did not
know that there was any story  except '

Russell Penton began to speak.

Oh, yes, it was this.' And then he was
infected by Mab's embarrassment. He stopped,
laughed, but awkwardly, even grew red, which,
for a man of his years and experience, was inconceivable,
and said,  No, no ; not in that way.
The story is not perhaps what you would call a

story. It concerns not anything in the shape of
loyer, so far as I know '

Oh, I beg your pardon, Uncle Gerald !'

There is no harm done. She yeas not born
to inherit all her father could leave to her, like
you. There were brothers at first ; and the heir
of entail who succeeds now, who takes what
should laye been theirs, is the father of these
two young ones. Don't you see? There is
nothing for a good strong family repugnance
like a cousin who is the heir of entail'

Mabel paused a little, employing her faculties
upon this question, which was new to her.
Finally she delivered her judgment.

Perhaps  at least, I think I can understand.
But the children haven't done anything, have
they "? It is not their fault V

It is nobody's fault, as is the case with so
many of the worst complications of life. And
this is something a little worse still than the heir
of entail. It is the heir whom you are buying
out, whom you are persuading to part with his
rights. Yell, perhaps they are a bad kind of
rights. I prefer not to give an opinion. To

bind lip a property for generations so that it
shall descend only in a certain way may be
wrong ; neither you nor I are capable of clearing
up such high questions, Mab. It is good for the
family, but bad for the individual, as " Nature,
red in tooth and claw," is, according to the
laureate. But Mab, my little Mab, this boy
Walter is the one that is to be done out of it.
Don't you see ? It is quite fair between Alicia
and his father, but the boy has no voice, and he
is done ont of it. I think it is rather hard upon
the boy.'

There was nothing said about a boy,' said
little Mab, demurely. ' I only heard of a girl.'

That was because you are not supposed to
take any interest in boys,' said her uncle, with
a laugh ; ' not such a boy either in your eyes
over twenty, poor fellow, and no doubt
having thought of the time when he should
be the heir. He will be Sir Walter Penton
in his turn, if he lives, but otherwise he is out
of it. I, who never was in it, who am only a
spectator, so to speak, I feel very much for
young Wat.'

Poor boy !' said Mab, under her breath.

By effect of nature she took, as was to be expected,
her uncle's view. Perhaps he ought not
to have thus sacrificed his wife and her cause.
But he had a motive, this man devoid of all
sense of propriety  a bad, dreadful motive, such
as any corrected judgment would have condemned.
He wanted to interest the heiress ina
penniless, prospectless yoimg man. Could
anything be more wicked and dreadful? He
wanted to surround young Walter Penton with
a halo of romance in Mabel's eyes, to call forth
in his favour that charm of the unfortunate,
that natural desire of the very young to compensate
a sufferer, the very sentiments which he
ought to have exorcised had they come by
themselves into being. His eyes lighted up
when this breath of pity came from Mab's lips.
A humorous sense of the balance in favour of
the race of Penton Which he thus meant
to create, diminishing so far his own obligations,
tickled his imagination. He would have
liked to have some one to laugh with over this
good joke.

Perhaps even underneath the enjoyment
there was something which was not so enjoyable,
a sense of worthlessness of wealth, and
that poverty was by no means such a drawback
as people thought. But that was altogether
private, unopened in his own soul ; and he had
not even anyone who could appreciate the joke
which was on the surface, and the pleasure he
felt in raising rebellions in little Mab's mind, in
prepossessing her in Wat's favour, in thwarting
Alicia. He would not have thwarted her in
anything else ; he had the greatest respect for
his wife, and it wanted only different circumstances,
a change of position, to have made him
the husband of husbands. But to thwart heron
this point was delightful to him. He had
set his heart upon it. It would be turning the
tables also on his own people, which was agreeable
too.

Yes,' he said, more seriously. * Poor boy !
all the more that he will not know how little, in
reality, he loses by the bargain that is being
made over his head.'

What do you mean, Uncle Gerald ? I thought

3'ou said you were so sony for him  that he was
losing so much.'

More in idea than in fact  much, everything
in imagination, this house  which he calls, no
doubt, the house of his fathers.'

Mab looked round on the stately drawing-room
which was full of a hundred beautiful
things, a long room with a row of windows
looking out over the wide landscape, divided
and kept in proportion by pillars supporting a
roof which, it had been the pride of a previous
generation to tell, was painted by an ItaKan
artist in the best taste of his century.

'But isn't it the house of his fathers?' she
said.

I suppose so, for as much as that is worth.'

Oh, Uncle Gerald ! although we had always
very nice houses, papa never thought there was
anything equal to '

Yes, I know,' he said, hurriedly, and paused
a moment to remember. He went on by-and-by,.
with a voice slightly broke, 'We were all
brought up there from our childhood. Even
that, Mab, is more in appearance than in reality.

A man may get very little satisfaction even out
of the place where he was born.'

Mab regarded him closely with her shrewd
eyes. They were not beautiful eyes, they were
rather small, but very blue, with a frosty keenness
in them ; and they saw a great deal. ' You
don't take a very bright view of things in
general,' she said.

Upon which he laughed and told her that he
was an old grumbler, and not to be listened to.

Suppose I was to tell you that a ball every
night (or half a dozen of them) would not make
you perfectly happy, and that even your first
season might bore you  '

Uncle Gerald, I have always heard that you
were very fond of society. Did your first season
bore you?' she asked.

Not at all, not half enough, and  I am not
sure that it would now, which is a confession to
make at my age. Hush ! not a word about that.
1 wish you to be kind to the young Pentons, remember,
that is all. The little girl will be shy
and the poor boy may be morose, I shouldn't
wonder.'

But you have taken them under your protection,'
the girl said, looking at him fixedly.
What could they have better than that ? as if
it mattered about me !'

Mr. Russell Penton shook his head, but he
said nothing more. He went out of the room
shortly after, when his wife came back. He
was not a man to allow for a moment that there
was anything in his position he did not like, or
that his protection would not be effectual in his
own, nay, in his safe's, or rather in his wife's
father's house. But as he went out with his
hands in his pockets, and the remains of a philosophical
shrug keeping his shoulders rather
nearer his ears than usual, he could not wellbeing
aware that it was so. It was a curious
fact enough and he would have been as well
pleased that little Mab had not divined it ; but
still it was all in the day's work. He had
known what the disadvantages would be when
he accepted the position of Prince Consort, ashe
said to himself often. On the whole, it
was a position not without its alleviations, but
(like most others in this world) it had to betaken

with all its drawbacks, without any
discussion and still more without any complaint.
There was no one who had not something
to bear, some in one way, some in another, his
own perhaps not by a long way the worst. And
then with a sort of grim amusement he began
to wonder how, if his little plan should come to
anything, young Wat would adapt himself to it.
Young Wat, a foolish boy, mourning over his
loss of this big house with all its French finery
its renaissance front, its drawing-room roof by
Sugero (this was his joke upon the great
Italian decorator's name), its waterworks all
out of order, what a thing it would be for him
should he marry the Russell heiress with all her
money-bags. And afterwards how would he
agree with it ?

Russell Penton was very loyal, but yet he felt
that were he Wat, in all the freedom of opening
life, with the whole world before him, he
would neither bind a great shell like Penton
upon his shoulders nor himself to a crown
matrimonial. If the boy but knew what it was to
be free ! if he could realise the happiness of going

where he would and doing what he pleased I To
be sure he would probably have to work for
that freedom, and he had not himself at any
period of his career been a man who understood
work. It was a thing he had no genius for.
To take up the labours of a profession was more
entirely out of the traditions and capabilities
of his soul than the role which he had adopted.
He was quite aware of this, and, knowing it, was
very willing to promote Wat's interest in the
same way which had, as people say, made his
ovn fortune  judging Wat to have been in all
Likelihood spoiled for other kinds of advancement
like himself. He had become even eager
about this, determined that Wat should have
his chance with the best, and that the Pentons
should thus be even with the Russellss, each
family contributing a Princess Royal and each
a fortunate consort ; but in the midst of this
benevolent scheme, of which his wife so entirely
disapproved, he reserved to himself this subject
of humorous curiosity  how Walter would
take to the place, in which he was himself
so loyal and patient, but yet never without a
VOL. IT. D

consciousness of all there was to bear and todo.


Mab, who was so shrewd, with all her wits
about her, questioned Alicia closely Avhen they
were alone together. She knew already that
the visitors were not much in the good books of
the mistress of the house ; but that she was a
little ashamed of the feeling and anxious to have
it understood that there was no reason for it.

<I will not conceal from you,' Mrs. Russell
Penton repeated, ' that I did not wish you to
meet them : not from anything wrong in them 
the girl is a nice gentle little thing, I have no
doubt ; and the boy  I know no harm of the
boy : but I should have preferred that you had
not met them here.'

Why, Aunt Gerald ? do tell me why.'

But this was what Mrs. Penton could not or
else would not do. She said,

Because they are not in our sphere. They
are very nice, I don't doubt. There are, of
course, just the same race as myself, so it is not
for that ; but you that have been brought up in
the lap of luxury, and this girl, who probably

has had the life of a nursery-maid (for the children
are endless), how could you have anything
to say to each other? There is too great a
difference. This is what I always felt.'

And the boy,' said Mab, in a little voice
which was somewhat hypocritical, ' is not he
any better ? Is he quite a common boy?'

'The boy is not worth considering,' said Mrs.
Russell Penton. ' He is a hobbledehoy, neither
boy nor man, don't you know. I don't suppose
he has had more education than his sister, and
1 don't think he will amuse at all. But they are
only coming for three days, and I hope you
will not mind for that short time.'

Oh, I shall not mind,' said Mab ; ' I like seeing
people of all kinds.'

And thus the conversation dropped. But it
need not be said that all this was the very best
introduction possible of the two young Pentons
to the notice of the little heiress. She did not
indeed resolve to make to Wat an offer of her
hand and fortune. But the thought of the heir
who was an heir no longer, and of how the
mere fact of being ' out of it,' while still so prod



soundly concerned, must work upon the mind,
and all the traditional miseries of the poor
gentleman, took possession of her imagination.
And fancy took the side of the unfortunate, as a
young fancy always does. Accordingly when
the poor old broken-down fly drove up, and
the portmanteaux were taken down, and the
two timid young people stepped out of the
mouldy old carriage, Mab, though she saw the
ludicrous features of the scene, felt not the
least desire to laugh. She looked at them
keenly, standing by, acting as audience to this
little drama, and saw Ally's anxious look at her
brother as she passed into the house, and
Walter's keen consciousness of the footman's
scorn and Mrs. Penton's toleration. He did not
notice herself, and evidently thought her a
person of no importance, which for the moment
piqued Mab. But when he paused to let her, a
little nobody, as he thought, pass before him,
all her romantic sympathies came back to her
mind. And so it came to pass that it was not
Ally who was the most excited of the young
persons thus brought together in what seemed

an accidental way ; nor, perhaps, could their
hearts have been seen, was it she who was the
most likely to laye met her fate.

CHAPTER III.

RECKONING Without THEIR HOST.

Mrs. Russell Penton was not without her
share of the general embarrassment. There
was never any quarrel in the stately well-regulated
house. An angry look, a hot word, were
things unknown. But still she knew very well
when her husband was not in accord with her.
His smile was quite enough. Matters had gone
very far indeed before he whistled, but sometimes
things did even go so far as that.

This time there was no such climax. His lips
had never even formed themselves into the shape
of a whistle ; and in his countenance there was
no suspicion of a sarcastic meaning. But she
knew that his thoughts were not as her thoughts.

She knew even, which was a rare thing, that he
was against her, that he meant to act more or
less in a contrary sense. The young people
whom she had invited against her will, to whom
she meant to be  not unkind, that was not
in her nature, but to treat at least no better than
was necessary, he meant to take up and show
the greatest attention to. She was aware of
this and it troubled her.

How was it possible that it should not trouble
her ? It was an accusation, nay, more, a verdict
delivered against herself. And she saw even
that little Mab was of the same way of thinking,
that she was interested in the new comers,
that her questions had a meaning, and that
even that little thing was critical of her attitude,
and blamed her, actually blamed her,
though of com-se she did not venture to say anything.
This made Alicia Pen ton angry and
sore within herself ; and there was something
still more disagreeable, which lent a sting to all
the rest ; and that was, that she was her own
worst critic, and felt herself poor and small and
petty, and acting an ignoble part.

But there was yet a deeper depth to which she
never had expected to descend. Sh Walter in
his great age changed his habits for nobody.
He was never seen in the drawing-room except
on rare occasions for an hour after dinner, when
he felt better than usual. He thought the
library the most cheerful as well as the warmest
room in the house, and when visitors came it
was expected that they should pay their respects
to him there. Sir Walter had been a little restless
on the day the young Pentons arrived. It
had not seemed to Alicia that they were important
enough to be presented to her father in a
solemn interview.

There is no reason why sou should trouble
about them,' she said. ' You will see them at
dinner, that will be soon enough.' And the old
gentleman had made no particular reply.

Therefore when they arrived, as has been
related, Mrs. Penton led them upstairs to the
drawing-room and gave them tea. The room
was very light, very bright, with its long range
of large windows, of which the great breadth of
the landscape below seemed to form a part, and

the pillars which, divided it into a sort of nave
and aisles gave occasion for many separate
centres for conversation and the intercourse
of congenial groups in a large company.

Ally and Walter entered the room vrith dazzled
eyes. It was to them as a dwelling of the
gods. Had this visit been paid only a few
weeks before they would have secretly taken
possession, imagining how here and here each
should have their special corner. The effect it
produced on Walter now, as he looked round,
too proud to show that it was new to him, too
intent upon keeping all trace of anger out of his
countenance to be otherwise than preternaturally
grave, and on Ally, regarding its grandeur
with an awe that was beyond words, was
very different, but in both places it was very
profound. Ally thought vith a movement of
mingled regret and thankfulness how right
mother was I What could we have done, she
said to herself, in this great room ? It would
have been delightful indeed for the children who
on wet days would never have wanted to go
out with such a place to play in. But then

how could anyone have had the heart to give
this up to the children ? She could not talk to
Mrs. Penton, who maintained a little formal
conversation, her mind was so full of this thought.
It was beautiful. It was a magnificent room.
It was Wonderful to think that it might have
belonged to us. But mother was right  oh, how
right mother was ! What could we have done
with it ? How could we even have furnished
it? Ally said to herself; but she knew that
Wat was annoyed when she allowed herself to say,

What a lovely room !'

< It is a very handsome room. I don't think
there is anything like it in the county,' said Mrs.
Russell Penton. ' I ought not perhaps to say
so, for we have done a great deal to it ourselves.
But I may allow that it is very perfect. You
have never seen it before V

The view is fine,' said Wat, going to the
window before his sister could answer ; ' it is so
extensive that it makes any room look small.'
He was so much out of temper and out of heart
that he could not help making an attempt to
'take ' this serene great lady ' down.'

She smiled in her dignified way, which made
the young critic feel very small.

We seldom hear any fault found with its
size,' she said.

And then, to the astonishment of Walter, the
little person, whom he had allowed of his grace
to pass in before him, came into the room and
took her place and addressed the gi-eat lady in
the most familiar teiTQS.

Aunt Gerald,' she said, ' we are all a kind of
cousins, don't you think ? We must be a kind
of cousins, though we never saw each other
before, for you are aunt to them and you are
aunt to me, so of course we are friends by
nature ;' and with that she put out her hand not
only to Ally, whose face brightened all over at
this cordial gi-meeting, but to "Wat, who stood
hanging over them like a cloud, not knowing
what to say.

You are mistaken, Mab,' said Mrs. Russell
Penton ; ' I am not aunt but cousin to  to  '
she did not know what to call them  ' to my
young relations,' she said at last.

That comes exactly to the same thing  an

old cousin is always aunt,' said Mab, settling
herself on her seat like a little pigeon. She was
very plump, pink and white, with very keen
little blue eyes, not at all unlike a doll. There
was nothing imposing in her appearance. ' I
am Mab,' she said, ' and are you Alicia, like
Aunt Gerald ? Do all your brothers and sisters
call you so ? It is such a long name. I have
neither brothers nor sisters.'

Oh, what a pity,' said gentle Ally, who had
brightened as soon as this new companion came
in with all the freemasonry of youth.

Do you think so 1 but then they say it is
very good in another way. I have nobody to
be fond of me though, nobody to bully me. Big
brothers bully you dreadfully, don't thejV
She cast a look at Walter, inviting him to
approach. She was not shy, and he was standing
about, not knowing what to do with himself.
Walter would have been awkward in any
circumstances, having no acquaintance with
strange ladies or habit of attending them at tea.
He drew a step nearer indeed, but her advances
did not put him at his 'ease ; for had he not

taken her for a lady's-maid? though this she did
not know.

Mrs. Russell Peuton left them thus to make
acquaintance, as slab said, but not willingly.
She had to obey a summons from Sir Walter,
Sir Walter had been a great deal more restless
than usual for the last day or two. There was
nothing the matter with him, he said himself,
and the doctor said he was quite well, there was
not the slightest reason for any uneasiness ;
but yet he was restless  constantly sending for
Alicia when she was not with him, changing
his position, finding fault with his newspapers,
and that all the little paraphernalia he loved
was not sufficiently at hand. Mrs. Russell
Penton was always ready when her father
wanted her. She would have let nothing, not
the most exalted visitor, stand between her and
her father, and though she was by no means
desirous of leaving these young people together,
yet she got up and left them without a word.
It was, however, a little too much for her when
Sir Walter exclaimed, almost before she got into
the room.

Where are those children ? I suppose they
have come, Ahcia. Why are yon hiding them
away from mew

'The children!  what chicken ? Father, I
don't know what yon mean.'

'What children are there to interest me now,
except the one set V said Sir Walter, peevishly.
 Edward's children of course I mean.'

Edward's children !'

Am I growing stupid, or what is the matter
with you, Alicia? I don't generally have to
repeat the same thing a dozen times over.
Naturally it is Edward's son I want. A man
can scarcely help feeling a certain interest in
the boy who is his heir.'

'I am afraid I am very stupid, father. I
thought we had settled '

Yes, yes, yes,' said the old man ; ' it is all
settled just as you liked, I know : but all the
same the boy is my heir.'

Mrs. Russell Penton made no reply. Sir
Walter was old enough to be allowed to say
what he would without contradiction ; but the
statement altogether was extremely galling to

her. * Settled just as yon liked.' It was not as
she liked, but as he liked. It was he who had
moved in it, though it was for her benefit.
Though she could not deny that the desire of
her life was to possess Penton, to remain in her
home, yet she was proudly conscious that she
Avould have taken no step in the matter, done
nothing, of her own accord. It was he "who had
settled it : and now he turned upon her, and
asked for the boy who was his heir ! Everybody
was hard upon Alicia at this moment of
fate. They all seemed to have united against
her  her husband, the little girl even whom,
she had wished to defend from fortune-hunters
and now her father himself! If she had
been twenty instead of fifty she could not have
felt this universal abandonment more. But the
practice of so many years was strong upon her.
She would not oppose or make any objections to
what he wished, though it was of the last repugnance
to herself.

*I should have liked,' said the old man, * to
see Edward too ; when one has advanced so far
as I have on the path of life, Alicia, likes and

dislikes die away  and prejudices. I may have
been too subject to prejudice. Edward never
was very much to calculate upon. He had no
character ; he never could hold his own ; but
there was very little harm in him, as little harm
as good you will perhaps say. Bring me the
boy. He will be the same as I, Sir Walter
Penton, when his turn comes, and it will not belong
before his turn comes. Edward will never
last to be an old man like me. He hasn't got it
in him ; he hasn't stuff enough. The young one
will be Sir Walter Sir Walter Penton, the old
name. The tenth, isn't it  Walter the tenth 
if we were to count as some of the foreign
houses do V

'Oh, father, don't!' cried Ahcia. To think
he could talk, almost jest, about another Walter!

He looked up at her quickly, as if out of a
little gathering confusion, seeing for the moment
what she meant.

Eh ! well, we must not always dwell on one
subject  must not dwell upon it. Let me seethe
boy.'

Mrs. Russell Penton rang the bell and gave a

message, out of which it was almost impossible
to keep an angry ring of impatience.

Tell the young gentleman who is in the
craving-room, he who arrived half-an-hour ago
you understand ?  that Sir salter would like
to see him. Show him the way.'

Why don't you speak of him by his name,
Alicia ? Young Mr. Penton, Mr. Walter Penton,
my successor, you know, Bower, that is to be.
Say I seldom leave my room, and that I should
be pleased to see him here. My dear,' he went
on, ' the servants always act upon the cue you
give them, and they ought to be very respectful
to the rising sua, you know. It is bad policy to
set them out of favour with the rising sun.'

Alicia's heart was too full for speech. She
kept behind her father's chair, arranging one or
two little things which required no arrangement,
keeping command over herself by a
strong effort. A little more, she felt, and she
would no longer be able to do this. That even
the servants should have such a suggestion made
to them, that Edward's boy was the heir I Had
her father departed from the resolution which

VOL. II. E

was, she declared to herself passionately, his
own resolution, not suggested by her ? Had he
forgotten ? Was this some wavering of the
mind which might invalidate all future acts of
his ? She felt on the edge of an outbreak of
feeling such as had rarely occurred in her reserved
and dignified life, and at the same time
she felt herself turned to stone. The old man
went on talking, more than usual, more cheerfully
than usual, as if something exhilarating
and pleasant was about to happen, but she paid
little attention to what he said. She stood
behind, full of a new and anxious interest, when
the door opened and Wat, timid, but on his
guard, not knowing what might be wanted with
him, half defiant, and yet more impressed and
awed than he liked to show, came into the room.
Mrs. Russell Penton gave him no aid. She said,
This is Edward's son, father.' It annoyed her
to name him by his name, though there was no
doubt that he had a right to it, as good a right
as anyone. She could not form her lips to say
Walter Penton. But what she failed in Sir
Walter made up. He half rose from his chair,

which was a thing he rarely did, and held out
both his hands.

 Ah, Walter ! I'm glad to see you, very glad
to see you,' he said. He took the youth's hands
in those large, soft, aged ones of his, and drew
him close and looked at him, as he might have
looked at a grandson ; and there was enough
resemblance between them to justify the suggestion.
* So this is Walter,' he went on, ' I'm
very glad to see you, my boy. You're the
last of the old stock  no, not the last either, for
I hear there's plenty of you, boys and girls.
Alicia '  the old man's voice trembled a little,
tears came into his eyes, as they do so easily
at his age  ' Alicia, don't you think he has a
look of  of  another Walter ? About the eyes
and his mouth ? He is a true Penton. My
dear, I'm very sony if I've vexed you. I  I
like to see it. I could think he had lived and
done well and left us a son to come after him,
my poor boy !'

And old Sir Walter for a moment broke down,
and lifted up his voice and wept, running the
Httle wail of irrepressible emotion into a cough

E 2

'N-.VtfiSlTY OF ilUNOlS

to veil it, and swinging Wat's hand back and
forward in his own. Ahcia stood as long as
she could behind him, holding herself down.
But when her father's voice broke, and he called
her attention to that resemblance, she could
bear it no longer. She walked away out of
the room without a word. Had she not seen
it  that resemblance? and it was an offence
to her, a bitter injury. He had neither lived
nor done well, that other Walter, the brother of
her love and of her pride. He had crushed her
heart under his feet, beaten down her pride,
torn her being asunder ; and now to have
it pointed out to her that this insignificant
boy, who was not even to be the heir, whose
birthright was being sold over his head, that
he was a true Penton and like her brother!
She could bear it no longer. Not even the
recollection that this emotion might injure her
father, that he wanted her care to soothe him,
sufficed to make her capable of restraining the
passion which had seized possession of her. She
went away quickly, silent, saying nothing. It
was more than she could bear.

In the corridor she met her husband, between
whom and her there was, she was conscious, a
certain mist, also on account of this boy. Had
all been as usual in other ways she would Jive
passed him by with a sense in her heart of a
certain separation and injury; but a woman
must have some one to claim support from, and
after all he was her husband, bound to stand
by her, whatever questions might arise between
them. She went up to him with an instinctive
feeling of having a right to his sympathy in
any case, even if he should disapprove, and put
her hand within his arm with a hasty appealing
movement, quite unusual with her. Xo man
was more easily affected than Russell Penton by
such an appeal. He put his hand upon hers, and
looked at her tenderly.

'What is it, my dear?' he said.

Nothing, Gerald ; except that I want to lean
upon you for a moment, because I have more
than I can bear ; though you disapprove of me,'
she said.

He held her close to him, full of pity and
tenderness.

Lean, Alicia, whether I approve or disapprove
;' and he added, ' I know that all this is
hard upon you.'

He sympathised with her at least, if not with
the tenor of her thoughts.

She made no further explanation, nor did he
ask for it. After a moment she said,

Gerald, do you know whether a sudden
change of mind, abandoning one way of thinking
for another, is supposed to be a bad sign 
of health, I mean V

He paused a moment and looked at her,
with an evident question as to whether it was
she who had changed her mind. But that look
was enough to show that, though she was suffering,
she was firm as ever, and a glance she gave
towards the closed door of the library enlightened
him.

I should not think it was a very good sign
of health,' he said.

*It shows a weakening  it shows a relaxation
of the fibre  a  that is what I think. And so
complete a change ! Gerald, my father shall do
nothing he does not wish to do for me.'

I never supposed you would wish that, my
dear. What is it? Don't form too hasty a
judgment. Has he said that he does not want
to do anything that has been spoken of between
you

'No, he has spoken of nothing. He has got
Edward Penton's boy with him, and he is quite
affectionate, talking of a resemblance '

Alicia, is it Penton you are thinking so much
of?'

'No, no,' she cried, leaning upon his shoulder,
bursting at last into sudden, long repressed
tears. ' No, no ! It is my brother, my brother !
my Walter ! He who should have been, who
ought to have been  Gerald, it may be wrong,
but 1 can't bear it, I can't bear it. He talks of
a resemblance '

Alicia, I see it too. I thought it would soften
your heart.'

Oh I' she cried, ' how little you know ;' and
flinging herself from him, nth a cry of mortification
and disappointment, she flew into her own
room and closed the door.

Russell Penton stood looking after her with a

troubled countenance, and then he began to
walk slowly up and down the corridor. He did
not approve, and perhaps, as she said in her
passion, did not understand this strange revulsion
of all gentle sentiments. But it went to
his heart to leave her to herself in a moment of
pain, even though the pain was of her own
inflicting. He did not follow or attempt to
console her. She was not a girl to be soothed
and persuaded out of this outburst of passionate
feeling. He respected her individuality, her
age, her power to bear her own burdens ; but
because his heart was very tender, though he
did not disturb Alicia, he walked up and down
waiting till she should return to him, outside
that closed door.

CHAPTER IV.

SIR WALTER AND HIS HEIR.

There was a ball at Peuton that evening.

Nothing was more unusual than a ball at
Ponton. The family festivities were usually of
the gi-avert kind. Solemn dinner-parties, duties
of society, collections of people who had to be
asked, county potentates, with whom Alicia and
her husband had dined, and who had to be
repaid. Nothing under fifty, unless it might be
by chance now and then a newly-married couple,
added in the natural progress of events to the
circle of the best people, ever appeared at that
luxurious but somewhat heavy table. Mr.
Russell Penton chafed, but endured, and talked
politics with the squires, and did his best to

relieve the ponderous propriety of their wives.
He was good at making the best of things ; and
when he could do nothing more he put on a
brave face and supported it. But now, for
once in a way, youth was paramount. The
young people from Penton Hook, who had
little acquaintance with the other young people
of all the county families who were invited, had
not so much as heard of what was in store for
them ; and Ally reflected, when she did
hear, that it was something like an inspiration
which had induced her mother to provide her
with that second evening dress, which was quite
suitable for a first ball. It was very simple, very
white, fit for her age, her slim figure, and youthful
aspect. But it was not for Ally that the ball
was given.

I believe it is my ball,' Mab had told her.
It is my first visit to Penton since I was a
child, and now that I am out Aunt Alicia thinks
that something has to be done for me. Are you
out " ? but you nest be, of course, or you would
not have been asked for to-day.'

I don't know whether I am out or not,'
said Ally, with a blush ; * but I don't think
mother, if she knew, would have any objection.
1 am eighteen. I have never been at a ball
before. Perhaps I may not dance in the right
way.'

Oh, nonsense,' said Mab, ' whatever way you
dance you have only to stick to it and say that
is the right ways

The two girls were alone, for Walter had just
been mysteriously called out of the room. And
though Ally's thoughts followed her brother
with anxiety, wondering what could be Avant
with him, yet the novelty of the scene and the
companionship of a girl of her own age so
warmed her heart that she forgot the precautions
and cares which had been impressed upon
her, and began to talk and to act by natural
impulse without thought.

I should never have the courage to do that,'
she said; ' I have never even seen people dancing.
We had a few lessons when we were children,
and sometimes we thy with Wat, just to see, if

we ever had a chance, how we could get on.
Anne plays and I have a turn, or else Anne hasa
turn and I play.'

Is Anne your only sister f
Oh, no cried Ally, with a laugh at the impossibility
of such a suggestion ; ' there are two
in the nursery. We are two boys and two girls,
grown up ; and the little ones are just the same,
two and two.'

'How unfair things are in this world,' said
Mab ; ' to think there should be so many of you
and only one of me !'

It is strange,' said Ally ; ' but not perhaps
unfair ; for when there is only one your father
and mother must seem so much nearer to you
you must feel that they belong altogether to
3/0M.'

Perhaps. Mamma died when I was born, so
I never knew her at all. Papa is dead too.
Don't let us talk of that. I never think of
things that are disagreeable,' said Mab, ' what
is the use ? It can't do you any good, it only
makes you worse thinking. Tell me about tonight.
Who will be here ? are they nice ? are

they good dancers? Tell me which is the best
dancer about, that I may ask Uncle Gerald to
introduce him to me.'

I know nobody,' said Ally.

Nobody! though you have lived here all
your life ! Oh, you little envious thing ! You
want to keep them all to yourself; you won't
tell me ! Very well. I have no doubt your
brother dances well: he has the figure for it.
I shall dance with him all the night.'

Oh no : that would be too much. But I
hope you will dance nXh him, to give him a little
confidence. Indeed, what I say is quite true.
We don't know anybody; we have been
brought up so  quietly. wye never were here
before.'

Oh !' Mab said. She was an inquiring young
woman, and she had not believed what she had
heard. She had made very light of Mrs. Russell
Penton's descriptions of her relations as * not in
our sphere.' As Ally spoke, however, Mab's
eyes opened wider ; she began to realise the real
position. The misfortunes of the young Pentons
had gone further than she believed ; they were

poor relations in the conventional sense of the
word, people to be thrust into a corner, to be
allowed to shift for themselves. But not if
they have some one to look after them, Mab
said to herself. She took up their cause with
heat and fury. ' You shall 'soon know everybody,'
she cried ; ' Uncle Gerald will see to that,
and so shall I.' It then occurred to her that Ally
might resent this as an offer of patronage, and
she added, hastily, ' Promise to introduce all your
good partners to me, and I will introduce all
mine to you. Is that settled ? Oh, then
between us we shall soon find out which are the
best.'

How kind she was! To be sure. Cousin
Alicia was not very kind; there was nothing
effusive about her. No doubt she must mean
to be agreeable, or why should she have asked
them ? though her manner was not very cordial.
But as for Mab  who insisted that she was to
be called Mab, and not Miss Russell  she was
more 'nice' than anything that Ally could
have imagined possible. She was like a new
sister, ' she was like one of ourselves.' So Ally

declared with warmth to Wat, who knocked at
the door of her room just as she was beginning
to dress for dinner, with a face full of importance
and gravity. He was quite indifferent as
to Mab, but he told her of Sir Walter with a sort
of enthusiasm.

He said I must not forget that I was hie
heir, and that he would like to make a man
of me. What do you think he could mean,
Ally, by saying that 1 was his heir, after all?'

Ally could not tell ; how was it possible that
she should tell, as she had not heard or seen the
interview? x\nd, besides, she was not the
clever one to be able to divine what people
meant. She threw, however, a little light on
the subject by suggesting that perhaps he
meant the title.

For you must be heir to the title, Wat,' she
said ; ' nobody can take that from you.'

Wat's countenance fell at this, for he did not
like to think that it was merely the baronetcy
Sir Walter meant when he called him his heir.
However, there was not very much time to talk.
Walter had to hurry to his room to get ready,

and Ally to finish dressing her hair and to'put on
her dress, with a curious feeling of strangeness
which took away her pleasure in it. Of course,
you really could see yourself better in the long,
large glass than in the little ones at the Hook,
but an admiring audience of mother and sisters
are more exhilarating to dress to than the
noblest mirror. And Ally felt sad and excited
not excited as a girl generally does before her
first ball, but filled with all manner of indefinite
alarms. There was nothing to be alarmed
about. Cousin Alicia, however cold she might
seem, would not suffer, after all, her own
relation to be neglected. And then there was
Mab. The girl felt the confused prospect before
her of pleasure  which she was not sure would
be pleasure, or anything but a disguised pain 
to grow brighter and more natural when she
thought of Mab. And that compact about the
partners. Ally wondered whether she would
get any partners, or if they would all overlook
her in her corner, a little girl whom nobody
knew.

And then came dinner, an agitating but

brilliant ceremonial, with a confusing brightness
of lights and flowers and ferns, and everything
so strange, and the whole disturbed by an underlying
dread of doing something wrong. Sir
Walter at the head of the table, a strange image
of age and tremulous state, looked to Ally like
an old sage in a picture, or an old magician, one
in whose very look there were strange powers.
She scarcely raised her eyes when she was presented
to him, but curtseyed to the ground as
if he had been a king, and did not feel at all
sure that the look he gave her might not work
some miraculous change in her. But Sir Walter
did not take much notice of Ally, his attention
was all given to Wat, whom he desired to
have near him, and at whom he looked with
that pleasure near to tears which betrays the
weakness of old age.

"When dinner was over, the old man would not
have Russell Penton's arm, nor would he let his
servant help him. He signed to Wat, to the
astonishment of all, and shuffled into the ball-room,
where half of the county were assembled, leaning
on the arm of the youth, who was no less aston-vol.

II. F

islet than everybody else. Sir Walter was
very tall, taller than Wat, and he was heavy,
and leaned his full weight upon the slight boy
of twenty, who required all his strength to keep
steady and give the necessary support. Mrs.
Russell Penton, who was already in the ballroom
receiving her guests, grew pale like clay
when she saw this group approach.

Father, let me take you to your seat,' she
said, hurriedly, neglecting a family newly
arrived too, who where waiting for her greeting.

Nothing of the kind, Alicia. I'm well off
to-night. I've got Wat, you see,' the old gentleman
said, and walked up the whole length of
the room, smiling and bowing, and pausing to
speak to the most honoured guests. ' This is
young Walter,' he said, introducing the boy,
'don't you know? My successor you know,'
with that old tremulous laugh which was half a
cough, and brought the tears to his eyes. The
people who knew the circumstances  and who
did not know the circumstances ?  stared and
asked each other what could have happened to
bring about such a revolution.

When Sir Walter had been seated at the
upper end of his room he dismissed his young
attendant with a caressing tap upon his arm.

Now go, boy, and find your partner. You
must open the ball, you know ; nothing can be
done till you've opened the ball. Go, go, and
don't keep everybody waiting.'

Poor Wat could not tell what to do when
raised to this giddy height without any preparation,
not knowing anybody, very doubtful
about his own powers as a dancer, or what was
the etiquette of such performances. Russell
Penton almost thrust Mab upon him in his pause
of bewilderment. And from where she stood at
the door, stately and rigid, Ahcia looked with a
blank gaze upon this boy, this poor relation,
whom her eyes had avoided, whom she had
included almost perforce in her reluctant invitation
to his sister, but who Alas thus made the
principal figure in her entertainment. She had
been reluctant to ask Ally, but the brother had
been put in quite against her will. His name,
his look, the resemblance which she refused to
see, but yet could not ignore, were all intolerable

to ber; but ber father's sudden fancy
for the boy, bis change of sentiment so inconceivable,
so inexplicable, struck chill to ber
heart.

When she was released from her duties of
receiving, she found out the doctor among the
crowd of more important guests, and begged
him to give her his opinion.

How do you think my father looks T

Extremely well  better than he has looked
for years  as if he had taken a new lease,' the
doctor said.

Mrs. Russell Penton shook her head. She
herself was very pale ; her eyes shone with a
strange, unusual lustre. She said to herself
that it was superstition. Why should not an
old man take a passing fancy ? It would pass
%vith the occasion, it might mean nothing.
There was no reason to suppose that this wonderful
contradiction, this apparent revolution in
his mind, was anything but a sudden impression,
an effect  though so different from that in
herself  of the stirring up of old associations.
She sat down beside her father, and did her

best to subdue the state of unusual exhilaration
in which he was.

You must not stay longer than you feel
disposed,' she said, with her hand upon his
arm.

Oh, don t fear for me, Alicia. I am wonderfully
well ; I never felt better. Look at young
Wat, with that little partner of his ! Isn't
she the little heiress? I shouldn't wonder if
he carried off the prize, the rascal I eh, Gerald ?
and very convenient too in the low state of
the exchequer,' the old gentleman said ; and
he chuckled and laughed with the water in his
eyes, while his daughter by his side felt herself
turning to stone.

It was not, she said to herself passionately,
for fear of his changing his mind. It was that
a change so extraordinary looked to her anxious
eyes like one of those mental excitements which
are said to go before the end.

It was Aby's own fault that she got behind
backs, and escaped the attentions which Mr.
Russell Penton, absorbed, too, in this curious
little drama, had intended to pay her. Ally, in

70 SIR WALTER AND HIS HEIR.

the shade of larger interests, fell out of that importance
which ought to belong to a debutante.
It was a great consolation to her when young
Rochford suddenly appeared, excited and delighted,
anxious to know if she had still a dance
to give him. Poor Ally had as many dances
as he pleased to give, and knew nobody in all
this bewildering brilliant assembly so Avell as
himself.

She was unspeakably relieved and comforted
when he introduced her to his sisters and his mother,
who, half out of natural kindness, and half
because of the distinction of having a Miss Pen-ton
 who was a real Penton, though a poor one,
in the great house which bore her name  under
her wing, encouraged Ally to take refuge by her
side, and talked to her and soothed her out of the
frightened state of loneliness and abandonment
which is perhaps more miserable to a young
creature expecting pleasure in a ball-room than
anywhere else. They got her partners among
their own set, the guests who were, so to speak,
below the salt, the secondary strata in the great
assembly  who indeed were quite good enough

for Ally  quite as good as anyone, though Without
handles to their names or any prestige in
society. Mab, when she met her new friend,
stopped indeed to whisper aside, ' Where laye
you picked up that man V But Mab, too, was
fully occupied with her own affairs.

And Walter was altogether swept away from
his sister. He made more acquaintances in the
next hour or two than he had done for all the
previous years of his life. If his head was a
little turned, if he felt that some wonderful unthought
of merit must suddenly laye come out
in him, who could wonder? He met Ally now
and then, or saw her dancing and happy now ;
and with a half guilty gladness, feeling that there
was no necessity for him to take her upon his
shoulders, abandoned himself to the intoxication
of his own success. It was his first ; it was
totally unexpected, and it was very sweet.

The time came, however, as the time always
comes, when all this fascination and delight
came to an end. Sir Walter had retired hours
before ; and now the last lingering guest had
departed ; the last carnage had rolled away, the

lights were extinguished, the great house had
fallen into silence and slumber after the fatigue
of excitement and enjoyment. Walter did not
know how late, or rather how early it was, deep
in the heart of the wintry darkness, " towards
morning, when he was roused from his first sleep
by sudden sounds in the corridor, and voices
outside his door. A sound of other doors opening
and shutting, of confused cries and footsteps,
made it evident to him that something unusual
had occurred, as he sprang up startled and
uneasy.

The first thought that rises to the mind of
every inexperienced adventurer in this world,
that the something which has happened must
specially affect himself, made him think of some
catastrophe at home, and made him clutch at his
clothes and dress himself hurriedly, with a certainty
that he was about to be summoned.
There flashed through Walters mind with an
extraordinary rapidity, as if flung across his
conscience from without, the possibility that it
might be his father  the thought that in that
case it would actually be he, as old Sir Walter

had said, who would be The thought was

guilty, barbarous, unnatural. It did not originate
in the young man's own confused, half-awakened
mind. AYhat is there outside of us
that flings such horrible realization across our
consciousness without any will of ours ? He had
not time to feel how horrible it was when he
recognised Mrs. Russell Penton's voice outside
in hurried tones, sharp with some urgent necessity.


Some one must go to Edward Penton, and
Rochford  Rochford and the papers. Who can
we send who will understand ? Oh, Gerald, not
you, not you. Don't let me be alone at this
moment  let all go rather than that.'

'If it must be done, I am the only man to do it,
Alicia  if his last hours are to be disturbed for
this.'

His last hours ! they are disturbed akeady ;
he cannot rest ; he calls for Rochford, Rochford!
It is no doing of mine  that you should think so
of me at this moment ! How am I to quiet my
father ? But, Gerald, don't leave me  don't you
leave me V she cried.

Walter threw his door open in the excitement
of his sudden waking. The light flooded in his
eyes, dazzling him.

'I'll go,' he said, liable to see anything
except a white figure and a dark one standing
together in the flicker of the light Which was
blown about by the air from some open window.
Presently Ahcia Penton's face became visible to
him, pale, with a lace handkerchief tied over
her head, which changed her aspect strangely,
and her eyes full of agitation and nervous unrest.
She fell back when she saw him, crying, with a
sharp tone of pain,

'Your

I'm wide awake,' said the young man. ' I
thought something must have happened at
home. If there's a horse or a dog-cart, I'll go.'

Sir Walter is very ill,' said Russell Penton.
I hope not dying, but very ill. And you know
what they want, to settle the matter with your
father and get that deed executed at once.'

I'll go,' said Wat, half sullen in the repetition,
in the sudden perception that burst upon him
once again from outside with all its train of

ready-made thoughts  that if he Angered, if he
delayed, it might be too late, and Pentou would
still be his  that there was no duty laid upon
him to go at all, contrary to his interests, contrary
to all his desires  that  He gave a little
stamp with his foot and repeated, doggedly, ' I
said I'd go. I'm ready. To bring Rochford
and the papers, to bring my father ; that's what
I've sot to do.'

That is what Mrs. Penton does not venture
to ask of you.'

Oh,, boy,' cried Alicia, Hating up her hands,
go, go ! It is not for me, it is for my father. I
don't know what he means to do, but he cannot
rest till it is done. He can't die, do you know
what I mean ? It is on his mind, and he can't
get free  for the love of heaven go !'

This moment,' Walter said.

CHAPTER V.

A NIGHT S DRIVE.

Walter Penton found himself facing the
penetrating wind of the December morning
which was in its stillness and blackness the dead
of night, before he had fully realised what was
happening. A number of keen perceptions indeed
had flashed across his mind, yet it felt like
nothing so much as the continuation of a dream
when, enveloped in an atmosphere of sound, the
horse's hoofs clanging upon the frosty road, the
wheels grinding, the harness jingling, all
doubled in clamour by the surrounding stillness,
he was carried along between black, half-visible
hedgerows, under dark bare trees, swaying in

the wind, through shut-up silent villages, and
the deathlike slumber of the wide country,
bound hard in frost and sleep. A groom less
awake than himself, shivering and excited, but
speechless, and affording him no sense of
human companionship, by his side, driving
mechanically, but at the highest speed, along a
road which to unaccustomed eyes was invisible.
The scene was a very strange one after the
intoxicating dream of the evening, with all its
phantasmagoria of light and praise, and confused
delight and pride. The blackness before
him was as heavy as the preliminary vision had
been dazzling ; the air blew keen, cutting the
very breath which rose in white Wreaths like
smoke from his hips. Where was he rushing ?
carried along by a movement which was not his
own, an unwilling agent, acting in spite of himself.
Sir Walter's old head, crowned with white
locks, looking upon hmi with so much genial
approbation, Mrs. Russell Penton's drawn and
rigid countenance, the disturbed face of her
husband, the plump simplicity of little Mab, a
sort of floating rosy cherub among all these

older countenances, seemed to flit before him in
the mists ; the music echoed, the lights glowed ;
and then came the darkness, the ring of the
hoofs and wheels, the stinging freshness of the
cold air, and all dark, motionless, silent around.
He was in a vision still. The German poem in
which the lady is carried off behind the black
horseman, tramp, tramp across the land, splash,
splash across the sea, seemed to ring in his ears
through his dream. He was preternaturally
awake and aware of everything, yet his eyes
were in a mist of semi-consciousness, and all
the half-visible veiled sights about him seemed
like the vague and flying landscape of uneasy
fever-journeys.

The cold, which half stupefied him, by some
strange process only intensified these sensations
; his companion and he never exchanged
a word. He was not acquainted even with the
lie of the roads, the ascents and descents,
or of what houses those were which looked
through the darkness from time to time surrounded
by spectral trees. After a while an
overwhelming desire for sleep seized him. He

had visions of the bed, all white and in order,
which he had left behind ; of the chair by the
fire which he had been roused out of ; of his
own room at home, all silent, cold, waiting for
him. If only he could make a spring out of
this moving jingling thing, out of the stinging
of the air, and get into the quiet and warmth
and sleep !

When the groom spoke, Walter woke up
again, broad awake from what must have been
a doze.

Shall we go to the Hook or to Mr. Rochford's
first, sir V the man asked.

Walter started bolt upright, and came to himself.
They where dashing through his own
village, and a moment later he would have
passed without seeing the white blinds at the
windows of Rochford's cottage which shone
through the gloom. He waved his hand in the
direction of his home, thinking that to give his
father the benefit of a warning was worth the
trouble before he went on. He took the reins
into his own hands, knowing the steep descent
towards the house, which was ticklish even in

daylight, and this touch of practical necessity
brought him to his full senses, and for the first
time dispersed the mists. He perceived now
fully what he was doing. As the horse's steps
sank half stumbling down the invisible abyss of
the way, Walter felt, with a tinging of his ears
and a sinking of his heart, that he also was
dropping from the brilliant mount of possibility
which he had been ascending with delighted
feet. It had seemed as if all the decisions of
fate might be reversed, as if he were to be the
arbiter of his own fortune, as if  And now it
was his hand that was to seal his own fate.
Such thoughts and questionings, such rebellions
against a duty which is not to be escaped, may
go on while one is executing that very duty
without any practical effect.

Walter pushed on all the time as well as the
difficulties of the path would allow. He dashed
into the little domain at the Hook with an
energy that made the still air tingle, feeling as
if he were himself inside, and starting to the
shock of the sudden awakening in the midst of
the darkness. The groom, who had opened the

gate, ran on and gave peal after peal to the bell,
and presently the house, which had stood so
dead and dark in the midst of the spectral trees,
awoke with a start. One or two windows were
opened simultaneously.

Who is there V cried Mr. Penton, in a bass
tone, while a sudden wavering treble with terror
in it shrieked out, ' Oh, it's Wat, it's Wat !' and
Something has happened to Ally !' with a cry
that penetrated the night.

Father,' said Wat, * nothing is the matter
"smith either of us. Sir Walter's very ill. I'm
going to fetch Rochford and the papers. You
have to come too, to sign. Be ready when I
come back.'

Rochford and the papers ! To sign ! What
do you mean ? In the middle of the night I'

And here there came a white figure to the
window, crying,

Ally  are you sure, are you sure, Wat, all's
right with Ally?' through the midst of the
question and reply.

I tell you, father, Sir Walter's dying. Be
ready, be at the cross-roads if you can in half-vol.

II. G

au hour. It's three miles farther, but this horse
goes like the wind. Don't stop for anything.
In half-an-hour. It's true ; it's not a dream,' he
shouted, turning round to go away.

Wat ! dying, did you say ? And a ball in
the house ! Wat ! had they got the doctor ?
what was it ? Wat !'

I can't stay. He may be dead before we
get there. In half-an-hour at the cross-roads,'
cried the youth, turning the horse with dangerous
abruptness ; and in a minute or two all was still
again.

The darkness and silence closed round, and
the astonished family, terrified, startled out of
the profound quiet of their repose, blinked,
dazzled at the newly-lit candles, and said to
each other wildly,

Dying ! perhaps before they can get there.
But Ally  Ally and Wat are all right, thank
God !' And soon there was a twinkle of lights
from window to window.

The servants got up last, being less easily
awakened ; but Mrs. Penton had already some
tea ready for her husband, and Anne, in a little

dressing-gown, was collecting the warmest coats
and wrappers which the family possessed, before
Mr. Penton himself, very grave, almost tremulous,
in the sudden emergency, could get ready.
His fingers trembled over his buttons. Sir
Walter, whom he had not seen for years ; the
old man who had been as one who would never
die ; the kind uncle of old ; the causeless antagonist
of later years. It was strange beyond
measure to Edward Penton to be thus sent for
"smith such startling and tragic suddenness in the
middle of the night.

What shall I do ?' he said, wringing his
hands, * if he should die before  '

Oh, Edward, make haste ; lose no time ; a
minute may do it,' cried his wife in her anxiety.

They almost pushed him out, Anne running
before to see that the gate was open, with a lantern
to show him the way. There was no one
else to carry the lantern, and she went with him
up the steep ascent with the flicker of the light
flaring unsteadily about the dark road. She
was very thinly clad with an ulster over her
dressing-gown, and her poor little feet thrust

g2

into her boots, and shivered as she ran, and
stumbled with the lantern, which was too big
for her, her father being too much absorbed in
his thoughts to perceive what a burden it
was.

Anne shivered, but not altogether from cold.
Her heart was beating high, the quick pulsations
vibrating to her lively brain, and alarm, awe, the
indefinite melancholy and horror of death mingling
with that keen exhilaration of quickened
living which any tremendous event brings with
it to the young. It was a wonderful thing to
be happening, to be mixed up in, to realise so
much more vividly than even her father did.
Her very lantern and course along this steep
and dark road in the middle of the night gave a
thrilling consciousness to Anne of having a
great deal to do with it, of being really an
actor in the drama. She Avould not leave him
till the lights of the dog-cart showed far off,
coming on swiftly, silently, through the dark,
before any sound could be heard.

It was all wonderful ; the portentous darkness,
without a star; the cold, the silence, the

consciousness of what was going on ; the sense,
which took her breath away, that perhaps after
all the lawyer, with his papers, and her father,
who had to sign them, might be too late ; that
even now, when she turned to make her way,
trembling a little with cold and fright and
nervous excitement, Sir Walter might be dead,
and Penton be ' ours ' ! Mother would be ' my
lady ' in any case ; the servants would have to
be taught to call her so. And all this might be
determined in an hour or two, perhaps before
daylight !

Anne shivered more and more, and was afraid
of the darkness under the hedgerows as she
went home alone with the heavy lantern. She
had a great mind to leave it under the hedge
and run all the way home, without minding the
dark ; but such darkness as that was not a
thing which a girl could make up her resolution
not to mind.

AValter had gone on from the Hook with this
issue plainer and plainer in his mind  if he but
delayed a Httle, did not press the horse, took it
more easily, he might without reproach, without

harm, be late, and so after all preserve his birthright.
He said to himself that if the papers
were but there Mrs. Russell Penton would have
them signed whatever might happen, if her
father was in the act of dying she would have
them signed. There was nothing she would
not do to secure her end. Had she not secured
himself, even himself, who was so much against
her, whose life was more in question than anyone's,
to do her will and serve her purpose ?
And when he could not resist her who could ?
She would get her way. She would make the
old man's melting, his sudden partiality, come
to nothing ; and again Walter, whose head had
been turned a little, who had begun to feel
more than ever what it would be to be the heir
of Penton, would be replaced in the original
obscurity of his poor relationship. And all this
might be changed if he but delayed a little,
went softly, spared the horse !

All the time, while these thoughts were going
through his mind, he was pressing on with
vehemence, making the animal fly through the
darkness. He did not hesitate a moment practically,

though he said all this to himself. What
he did and what he thought seemed to ruu on
in two parallel lines without deflection, without
any effect upon each other. It was all in his
hands to do as he pleased : no one could blame
him or say anything to him if he ceased to press
on, if he let the reins drop loosely. But it never
occurred to him to do so.

Then there was the possibility that Rochford
might not be ready at once, that he might not
be able to find the papers over which he had so
dawdled, that he might not be ready to jump
up as Walter had done. What need was thereto
press him, to make the same startling summons
at his door that had been made at the
Hook, to insist on an answer? There seemed
no need to take any active steps in order to upset
the family arrangement, to turn everything
the other way. All that it was necessary todo
was only to let the reins fall on the horse's
neck, to urge him forward no more.

They arrived thus flying at the gates of the
Rochford' house, a big red-brick mansion just
outside the town. There was a light in the

coachman's cottage which answered the purpose
of a lodge, and the coachman himself came
ont, half scared, half awake, to open to the pair
of lamps that gleamed through the darkness,
and the fiery horse from whose nostrils went
up what seemed puffs of smoke into the frosty-air.


At 'one ? Heave just go 'one, and scarce abed
yet,' said the man. 'Whatever can you
want of master so early in the morning?'

Walter had considered it to be night up to
this moment ; he recognised it as morning with
a sigh of excitement.

Mr. Rochford must be called immediately,'
he said, his thoughts tugging at him all the time
saying, 'Why? Why can't you let him alone ?
Is it your business to force him to get up, to
produce his papers, to drive half-a-dozen miles
in the chill of the morning V But Walter, though
he heard all this, took no notice. ' Let him know
that 1 am waiting. Sir Walter Penton is very
ill. He must come at once,' he said.

He jumped down from the cart, and began to
pace rapidly up and down to restore the circulation

of his half-frozen limbs, while the groom
covered the horse with a cloth and eased the
harness. There was no time to put the animal
up, to go indoors and wait.

As Walter took his sharp walk up and down,
the opposing force in his mind had a time to
itself of inaction and silence, and heaped argument
upon argument before him. What ! hurry
like this, drag everyone that was wanted from
their rest, disturb the whole sleeping world with
the clamour of his appeal in order to undo himself I
Was this his duty, anyhow that it could be considered?
Was it his duty to undo himself? More
than ever, now he had seen it, Penton had become
the hope of his life, the object of all his
wishes ; and was it in order to divest himself of
the last possibility of being heir to Penton,
though this was what Sir Walter had called him,
that he was here ?

The chill became keener than ever ; a sharp
air, blighting everything it touched, blew in his
face and chilled him to the bone. It was the
first breath of the dreary dawning, the dismal
rising of a dull day. A faint stir became perceptible

in the house, very faint, a Hght flashed
at a window, there was a far-off sound of a voice !
the movement of some one coming downstairs.
Then a voice called out,

What is it, Penton ? Is it possible I'm
wanted? 1 can't believe the man. What do
you want with me V And Rochford shivering,
half dressed, with a candle in his hand, appeared
at a side door, close to which Walter was performing
his march. ' You can't have come all
this way for nothing,' he cried, ' but it's not an
hour since I came home. It doesn't seem possible.
Am I wanted certainly?'

Now was the time. The reasonings within
tore Walter as if they had got hold of his
heart-strings. Why should he be so obstinate,
forcing on what would be his own ruin ?
It would be all his doing, the hurry-scurry
through the night, the insistance, calling up this
man, who yawned and gazed at him with a
speechless entreaty to be let off, and his father
who probably now was waiting for him by the
cross-roads in the dark, chilled to the heart. It
would be all his own officiousness, offering himself

to go, forcing the others. These harpies
were tearing at him all the time he was saying
aloud, his own voice sounding strange and far
off in his ears,

Sir Walter has been taken very ill ; he wants
you at once. Mrs. Russell Penton sent me. You
are to bring all the papers, and we are to pickup
my father on the way.'

He said all this as steadily as if there was not
another sentiment in his mind.

What,' said Rochford, ' the papers, and your
father ! Come in, at least ; it will take me sometime
to find them. Come in, though I fear
there's no fire anywhere.'

'I want no fire, only make haste,' said Walter,
we may be too late.'

Too late! yes, it was possible even now to be
too late, but no longer likely. Now be still, oh,
reasoning soul, keep silence, for there is no
remedy  the thing is done : and yet it was still
possible that it might not be done in time.

Rochford was a long time getting himself and
his papers together ; so long that the blackness
became faintly grey, and objects grew slowly

visible rising noiselessly out of the night. The
young man went up and down, up and down,
mechanically. He had jumped down to recover
himself of the numbness of his long drive, but
numbness seemed to have taken possession of him
body and soul. His mind had fallen into a sort
of sullen calm. He asked himself whether he
should take the trouble to accompany them back
at all. Rochford and his father were all that
were necessary. He was not wanted. He
thought he would walk home, getting a little
warmth into him, following the clamour of the
cart, but so far behind that all the echoes would
die out, and leave him in the silence, making his
way home. Not to Penton, where for a moment
he had dreamed a glorious dream, and heard
himself called old Sir Walter's heir, but home to
the Hook, where he had been born, where to all
appearance he would die, where he could steal
to his own bed in the morning grey, and sleep
and sleep, and forget it all. But now and again
another revolution took place in him : he no
longer wanted to sleep, all his faculties were
wide awake, and life ablaze in him as if he never
could sleep again.

When Rochford at last came out with his bag,
Walter acted as if there had never been a question
in his mind, as he had acted all along; he sprang
up to his place without a word, gathered the
reins out of the groom's hand, and took the road
again, reckless, at the hottest pace. The horse
was still fresh, rested yet fretted by the delay,
and easily urged to speed. Walter did not
know how to drive, he had no experience of
anything more spirited than the pony of all work
at home, and it was solely by the light of nature,
and a determination to get forward, that he was
guided. The groom had not ventured to say
anything, but Rochford was afraid, and remonstrated
seriously.

You can't go down hill at this pace, you will
bring the horse down, or perhaps break our
necks,' he said.

I'll not be too late,' said Walter, ' that is the
only thing ; we must be there in time.'

At the cross-roads Mr. Penton, shivering, was
pulled up on the cart almost without stopping,
and they dashed on once more. The landscape
revealed itself little by little, rising on all sides

in grey mists, in vague ghostly clearness  the
skeleton trees, the solid mass of the houses, the
long clear ribbon of the river lighting the plain.
And then Penton  Penton rising dark and
square with its irregular outline against the
clouds. There were lights in many of the windows,
though every moment the light grew
clearer. Dawn had come, the darkness was
fleeing away ; had life gone with it ? as it is said
happens so often.

Walter, dashing in at the open gates, urging
the horse up the avenue, did not ask himself
this question. He felt a conviction, which was
bitter at his heart, that he had completed his
mission successfully, and that they had come intime.


CHAPTER VI.

A DEATH-BED.

Sir Walter lay in his luxurious bed, where
everything was arranged with the perfection of
comfort, warmth, softness, lightness, all that
wealth could procure to smooth the downward
path. He was not in pain. Even the restlessness
which is worse than pain, which so often
makes the last hours of life miserable, an agony
to the watchers, perhaps less so to the sufferer,
had not come to this old man. He lay quite
still, with eyes shining unnatm-ally bright from
amid the curves and puckers of his heavy old
eyelids, with a half smile on his face, and the
air of deliverance from all care which some

dying people have. He was dying not of illness,
but because suddenly the supplies of life had
failed, the golden cord had broken, its strands
were dropping asunder. The wheels were soon
to stand still, but for the moment that condition
of suspense did not seem to be painful. There
was fever in his eyes which threw a certain
glamour over everything about. He had asked
that the candles might be lighted, that the room
should be made bright, and had called his
daughter to his side. Perhaps it was only her
own anxiety which had made her suppose that
he had asked for Rochford and the papers. At
all events, if he had done so, he did so no more.
He held her hand, or rather she held his as she
stood by him, and he lightly patted it with the
other of his large, soft, feeble hands.

You are looking beautiful to-night  as I
used to see you  not as you have been of
late. Alicia, you are looking like a queen
to-night.'

Oh, father, dear father, my beauty is all in
your eyes.'

Perhaps, more or less,' he said ; ' I have

fever in my eyes, and that gives a glory. The
lights are all like stars, and my child's eyes
more than all. You were a beautiful girl, Alicia.
I was very proud of you. Nobody but your
father ever knew how sweet you were. You
were a little proud outside, perhaps a little
proud. And then we had so much trouble 
together, you and I  '

She said nothing. She had not attained even
now to the contemplative calm which could
look back upon that trouble mildly. It brought
hard heart-beats, convulsive throbs of pain to
her bosom still. She had silenced him often by
some cry of softened anguish when he had
begun so to speak. But as he lay waiting
there, as it were in the vestibule of death,
saying his last words, she could silence him no
more.

 Something has occurred to-night,' he said,
that has brought it all back. What was it,
Alicia? Perhaps your ball : the dancing  we've
not danced here for long enough  or the music.
Music is a thing that is full of associations ;
it bi-kings things back. Was there anything

VOL. II. H

more? Yes, I think there must have been something
more.'

She stood looking at him with dumb inexpressive
eyes. She could not, would not say
Avhat it was besides, not even now at the last
moment, at the supreme moment. All the
opposition of her nature was in this. Love and
pride and sorrow and the bitter sense of disappointment
and loss, all joined together. She
met his searching glance, though it was pathetic
in its inquiry, with blank unresponsive eyes.
And after a while in his feebleness he gave up
the inquiry.

We have gone through a great deal together,
you and I  ah, that is so  only sometimes I
think there was a great deal of pride in it, my
dear. My two poor boys  poor boys ! I might
be hard on them sometimes. There was the
disappointment and the humiliation. God would
be kinder to them. He's the real father, you
know. I feel it by myself. Many and many a
time in these long sears my heart has yearned
over them. Oh, poor boys, poor silly boys !
had they but known, at least in this their day 

Alicia ! how could you and I standing outside
know what was passing between God and them
when they lay  as I am lying now f

Oh, father, father I' she cried, nth. anguish
in her voice.

*It is you that are standing outside now,
Alicia, alone, poor girl : and you don't know
what's passing between God and me. A gTcat
deal that I never could have thought of  like
friends, Uke friends ! I feel easy about the boys,
not anxious any longer. After all, you know, they
belong to God too, although they are foolish and
weak. Very likely they are doing better  well,
now  '

Oh, father I' she cried, with a keen pang of
pain at what she thought the wandering of his
mind. 'You forget, you forget that they are
dead.'

Dead !' he repeated, slowly. ' I don't forget ;
but do you know what that means ? We never
understand anything till we come to it in this
life. I'm coming very close, but I don't see 
yet  except that it's very different  very different
 not at all what we thought.'

h2

Father,' she cried, in the tnmiilt of her
thoughts; ' oh, tell me something about himself!
Are you happy  do you feel  do you
remember  V

Alicia Penton had said the prayers and received
the faith of Christians all her life, and
she wanted, if she could, to recall to the dying
man those formulas which seemed fit for his
state, to hear him say that he was supported in
that dread passage by the consolations of the
Gospel. But her lips, unapt to speak upon such
subjects, seemed closed, and she could not find
a word to say.

Happy !' he said, with that mild reflectiveness
Which seemed to have come with the approaching
end. ' It is a long, long time since I've been
asked that question. If you mean, am I afraid ?
No, no ; I'm not afraid. I'm  among friends. I
feel  quite pleased about it all. It will be all
right, whatever happens. I don't seem to have
anything to do with it. In my life I have
always felt that I had everything to do with it,
Alicia ; and so have you, my dear ; it's your
fault too. We were always setting God right.

But it's far better this way. I'm an old fellow
an old, old fellow  and I wonder if this is
what is called second childhood, Ahcia ; for I
could feel,' ho said, with the touching laugh of
weakness, ' as if I were being carried away in
some one's arms.'

His heavy eyes that were still bright with
fever closed with a sort of smiling peace fulness,
then opened again With a little start.

But it seemed to me just now as if there was
something to do  what was there to do ? 
before I give myself over. I don't want to
be disturbed, but if there is something to do 
Ah, Gerald, my good fellow, you here too.'

Russell Penton had come in to say that the
men who had been sent for so hurriedly, they
whose coming was so important, a matter
of almost life and death, had arrived. He had
entered the room while Sir Walter was speaking,
but the hush of peace about the bed had stopped
on his lips the words he had been about to say.
He came forward and took the other hand,
which his father-in-law, scarcely able to raise it,
stretched out towards him faintly with a smile.

I hope you are better, sir,' he said, mechanically,
bending over the soft helpless hand:
and under his breath to his wife, 'They are
come,' he said.

She gave him a look of helplessness and dismay,
with an appeal in it. What could be
done ? Could anything be said of mortal business
now ? Could they come in with their papers,
with their conflict of human interests and passion,
to this sanctuary of fading life ? And yet again,
could Ahcia Penton make up her mind to be
balked, disappointed, triumphed over in the end'?

Better is not the word.' Sir Walter spoke
very slowly, pausing constantly between his
broken phrases, his voice very low, but still
clear. ' I am well  floating away, you know 
carried very softly  in some one's arms. You
will laugh  at an old fellow. But I don't feel
quite clear if I am an old fellow, or perhaps  a
child.' Then came that fluttering laugh of
weakness, full of pathetic pleasure and weeping
and well-being. ' But,' he added, with a deeper
drawn, more difficult breath, ' you come in
quickly. Tell me before it's late. There is

something on my mind  like a shadow  something
to do.'

Ahcia held his hand fast; she did not move,
nor look up ; her eyes blank, introspective,
without any light in them, making no reply to
him, fixed on her fathers face ; but her whole
being quivering With a conflict beyond describing,
good and evil, the noble and the small, contending
over her, in a struggle which felt like
death.

A similar struggle, but slighter and fainter,
was in her husband's mind ; but in him it was
not a mortal conflict, only a question which was
best. Was it right to permit the old man to
float away, as he said, without executing a project
which seemed so near to his heart ? Because
it was not one which pleased Russell
Penton, because he would rather that it should
fail, he felt himself the more bound to his wife
that it should not fail through him.

It seems almost wicked to disturb you, sir,'
he said, ' but I heard that you wanted Rochford ;
if so, he is here.'

Alicia caught her husband by the arm, pressing

it almost fiercely with her hand, leaning her
trembling weight upon him.

But not to disturb yon, father she cried,
with a gasp.

Ah !' said Sir Walter, ' I remember. What
was it ? I don't seem to see anything  except
those lights like stars shining ; and Alicia,
Alicia ! How beautiful she is looking  like a
girl  to-night.'

Her husband gave her a strange glance.
She was gripping his arm as if for salvation,
clutching it, her breath coming quick; her
cheeks with two red spots of anxiety and excitement
; her eyes dull, with no expression in the
intensity of their passion, fixed on her father's
face. The white dressing-gown which she had
thrown on when she was called to him was
open a little at her throat, and showed the gleam
of the diamonds which she had not had time
to take off. It was not wonderful that in the
old man's eyes, with love and fever together in
them, Alicia, in her unusual white, should seem
for a moment to have gone back to the dazzle
and splendour of youth.

Sir Walter resumed after a moment, as though
this little outbreak of tender admiration were
an indulgence which he had permitted himself.


My mind's getting very hazy, Gerald  all
quite pleasant, the right thing, no trouble in it,
but hazy. I remember, and yet I don't remember.
If I had but the clue  Rochford?  the
young one, not the father. He's gone, like all the
rest, and now the young one reigns in his stead.
Bring him, and perhaps I'll remember. You
could tell me, you two, but you're afraid to disturb
me. What does it matter about disturbing
me? a moment  and then  Send for him;
perhaps I'll remember.'

Alicia would scarcely let her husband go.
She looked at him with terror in her eyes.
What was she afraid of? When he withdrew
his arm from her she dropped down suddenly on
her knees by her father's bedside with a low
shuddering cry, and hid her face, pressing her
cheek upon the old man's hand. The excitement
had risen too high. She could bear it no
longer. Complicated with all the aching and

trouble of the moment, the bursting this last
tie of nature, the dearest and longest companionship
of her life, to have that other anxiety,
the miserable question of the inheritance, the
triumph or sacrifice of her pride, which yet,
even amid the solemnity of death, moved her
more than any other question on earth  was
something intolerable. It was more than she
could bear. She sank down, partly out of incapacity
to support herself, partly that she could
not, dared not, meet her father's eyes with their
vague and wistful question.

You could tell me, you two.'

He had seen it, then, in her face, though she
had made efforts so determined to banish all sign
of comprehension, all answer out of her eyes.
And now, if he insisted, how could she refuse
to answer him and if Gerald perceived that
the old man had found the necessary clue
through her, what would he think of her?
That she had preferred her own aggrandisement
to her father's peace, that she had prompted
him on the very edge of the grave to enrich
herself. She could not sustain Sir Walter's look,

nor face the emergency without at least that
passive protection of her husband's presence,
which for the moment was withdrawn.

And Ahcia trembled for the moment when
the strangers would come into this sacred room :
the lawyer, and Edward Penton behind him,
hesitating, not without feeling (she knew), looking
sadly at the deathbed where lay one whom
in his early days he had looked up to with
familiar kindness. Nobody in the world, not
even Gerald, could be so near to him in that
moment as Edward Penton. She felt this even
while she trembled at the anticipation of his
coming. He was nearer than anyone living.
He would bring in with him the shadows of
those two hapless ones disappeared so long out
of life. She bethought her in that moment how
it had been usual to say ' the three boys.' Washer
mind wandering too ? All these thoughts
surged up into her brain in a wild confusion 
the old tenderness, the irritation, the bitter
jealous grudge at him who had outlived the
others, the natural longing towards one who
could understand.

Sir Walter was unaffected by any of these
thoughts ; he felt it all natural  that the grief
of his child should overwhelm her, that the
sense of parting and loss should be profounder
on her side than his. After various efforts he
raised his hand, which was so heavy, which
would not obey his will, and laid it tenderly
upon her bowed head.

Alicia, my dear child, don't let it overwhelm
you. Who can tell even how small the separation
is  as long as it lasts, and it cannot last
very long. You must not you inst not, my
dear, be sorry for me. I tell yon  it is all
pleasant  sweet. I am not  not at all  sorry
for myself. God bless you, my dear. He is so
close that when I say " God bless you " it is as
if, my love, He Himself was putting out His
hand.'

Oh, father ! oh, father !' she repeated, and
could say no more.

And he lay with his face turned to her, and
his hand feebly smoothing, stroking her bowed
head, as if she had been a child. She was a
child to him, his young Alicia, looking so beautiful

after her ball, in which he had seen her 
had he not seen her?  admired of everybody,
the fairest, the most stately, vrith. the Penton
diamonds glittering at her white throat as they
were nov. He had her in his mind's eye so
distinct, as he had seen her  was it an hour, was
it a lifetime ago ?

His breathing began to be disturbed, becoming
more difficult, and his thoughts to grow
more confused. He talked on, in broken gasps
of utterance, more difficult, always more difficult.
The fog in his throat  he began to feel it now ;
but always in flashes saw the lights gleaming,
and Alicia in full beauty, with her eyes like the
stars, and those other stars, less precious, yet full
of lustre, at her throat. He took no note of outward
things, being more and more absorbed  yet
with a dulness which softened everything, even
the difficulty of the breath  in his own sensations,
and in the sweep of the hurrying movement
that seemed to be carrying him away,,
away, into halcyon seas beyond, into repose and
smiling peace.

But the woman kneeling under his hand wasps

much alive to every sound and incident as he
was dull to them. Nothing muffled her keen
sense, or stilled the flood of thoughts that were
pouring through her mind. She heard, her
heart leaping to the sound, steps approaching
softly, on tiptoe, every noise restrained. She
heard a low murmur of voices, then the opening
of the door; but she was afraid to lift her
head, to startle her father. She dared not lookup
to see who was there, or how he took the
entrance of the new comers.

As for Sir Walter, he was almost beyond disturbance.
His hand moved heavily from time
to time over her head ; sometimes there was a
faint tremble when a breath came harder,
nothing more. AVould he die so? she "asked
herself, making no sign; was it all sealed up
for ever, the source of life that had made the
light or the darkness of so many other lives.
Her own wildly beating heart seemed to standstill,
to stop in the tremendous suspense.

Can you hear me f said her husband's voice,
low and full of emotion. ' Rochford is here, sir ;
-do you want him V

He shook his head as he spoke to the awestricken
men behind.

Eh !' Sir Walter gave a start as if half-awakened.
' Who did Tou say ?  I think  I must
have been asleep. Some one who wants me ?
They'll excuse a  a sick old man. Some one
who ?  Gerald  whom did you say V

Rochford, sir, whom you wanted to see.'

Rochford I What should I want with Rochford
? He's the  lawyer  the lawyer. We have
had plenty to do with lawyers in our day. Yes
I think there was something if I could remember.
Alicia, where is Alicia V

She rose up quickly, all those wild sensations
in her stilled by this supreme call.

I am here, father,' she said. Her countenance
was perfectly colourless, except for two
spots of red, of excitement and misery, on her
cheeks. Her hips were parched, it was with
difficulty she spoke.

Yes, my love ; stand by me till the last.
What was it ? I feel stronger. I can attend 
to business. Tell me, my child, what it was.'

She stood for a moment speechless, turning

her face towards them all with a look which was
awful in its internal struggle. How was she
to say it ? How not to say it ? Her fate, and
the fate of others, seemed to lie in her hands.
It was not too late ! His strength fluctuated
from moment to moment, yet he could do what
was needed still.

'Father,' she began, moistening her dry lips,
trying to get the words out of her parched throat.

Sir Walter had opened his heavy eyes. He
looked round with a bewildered, half-smiling
look. Suddenly he caught sight of Edward
Penton, who stood lingering, hesitating, half in
sympathy, half in resistance, behind. The dying
man gave a little cry of pleasure.

'Ah! I remember,' he said.

CHAPTER Il.

THE BOY.

They all came round gathering about his bed,
Rochford stooping, drawing the papers out of his
bag, Edward Penton approaching closer, looking
with a revival in his bosom of the forgotten
feelings of his youth upon the severed friend,
the old protector, the fatherly patron of those
days that were no more. To be sundered for
years, and then to come again and see the object
of the final, friendly affection of the past, the
man round whom your dearest recollections
centre, lying, whatever chasm may in the meantime
have opened between, upon his death-bed
what heart can resist that ? Scarcely the most
VOL. II. I

obdurate, the most prejudiced ; and Edward
Penton was neither one nor the other.

He came slowly forward and stood by the
bedside, forgetting all about the motive which
brought him thither, impatient, so far as he noticed
them all, of the presence of the strangers.
He came close, placing himself before Russell
Penton, who had no such claim to be there as he.
He did not attempt to say anything, but claimed
the place, he who was the last one left of the
three boys ; he whom they had hated rather than
loved because he was the survivor, yet who forgot
that entirely now, and everything involved
in it. He stood by the side of Ahcia as he had
stood so often. He forgot that there was any
question between them. He had been brought,
indeed, to sign and settle, but all that floated
from him now.

Russell Penton stood aside to let him pass,
and the lawyer placed himself at the writing-table
which had been brought nearer, within
reach of the bed, and where all the papers had
been laid out.

Do you think he will be able to understand

if I read them?' Rochford said, aside, to Russell
Penton ; ' or shall we try for his signature at
once f

Russell Penton made no reply, except by a
slight wave of his hand towards the bed. It
seemed a profanity that anyone should speak
or occupy the attention of the group save he
who was the centre of it. Sir Walter's eyes
were open, his interests fully awakened. He
watched while the writing-table was drawn forward
and put in order. He gave one glance of
recognition to Edward Penton at his bedside,
but had not time, it seemed, for greetings, his
whole mind being fixed on this thing which he
had to do.

'I had almost lost sight of it,' he said. 'Now,
thank God, I remember  while I have the time.
It will be  what you call a codicil. Alicia, you
always were generous ; you won't grudge it,
Alicia?'

Father I' she cried, bewildered with this preamble
; then, in the rapid process of thought, trying
to believe that it was some further compensation
to Edward which was in her father's mind.

I2

You know,' she said, fervently, ' that I will
grudge nothing that is your pleasure  nothing ;
you know that !'

Yes, my love  I know : it is not money she
would ever grudge. Alicia  no, no ; but perhaps
honour  or love. Rochford, what I want
is about the boy.'

'The boy I'

Mrs. Russell Penton turned quickly a searching
glance on her father, to which his dim eyes
made no response : then looked round with one
rapid demand for explanation. She seemed to
ask heaven and earth what he meant. Could it
be this'? Could this be all?

The boy !' Rochford echoed, with amazement
; 'what boy, sir?' faltering. 'There was
nothing about any boy ;' and he too gave Russell
Penton a significant look, meaning that Sir
Walter's mind was wandering, and that no
settlements could be possible now.

Gerald, you understand, tell them.'

Sir Walter turned his eyes instinctively to the
one impartial.

The boy  Edward's boy. Alicia would not

see how like he was ; but it was very plain tome
 and a nice boy. He has the name as welland
he will have Penton. Eh, Penton ? What
was there about Penton?' The old man
paused a moment, trying to raise his heavy
brow, his drooping eyelids  and there was a
great silence in the room ; they all looked at
each other, conscious, with something like a
sense of guilt, and no one ventured to be the
first to speak. It was Ahcia, perhaps, who
should have done it, but she felt as if her
labouring bosom was bound by icy chains, and
could not ; or the lawyer, who gazed at her
mutely, demanding whether he should say anything
 what he should say. It was but a
moment, breathless, precipitate. Then, as if
there had been nothing in it but the break of
his difficult breathing. Sir Walter resumed, ' He
will have Penton, in the course of nature. But
we're long-lived, it may be a long time first.
Ahcia,' he groped for her with the feeble hand
which he could scarcely raise, moving the
heavy fingers like a blind man. ' Ahcia, I want,
as long as I can, to do something for the boy.'

She had turned half away, her hands had
fallen by her side, a blank of something like
despair had come over her. Not for Penton !
oh, not for Penton ; but because he had glided
away from her into the valley of darkness, and
his mind had gone beyond the sphere of hers.
To feel that as he did so the mind of her father,
so long united to hers, as she had believed, in
every thought, took another turning, and disclosed
other wishes, other sentiments, overwhelmed
Alicia with a wild surprise. Death
was nothing to that. It made heaven and
earth reel to her with the greatness of the
astonishment. But that too was but for a
moment. She turned round, it seemed to the
spectators instantly, though to herself after
a pause which was tragical in its passion, and
answered the feeble groping of the blind hand
by clasping it in both of hers. Then she had
to summon her voice from the depths, to break
the chains of ice.

Whatever,' she said, ' father, whatever you
wish.'

There was something like reviving life;

there was reconciliation, reunion, in the way his
dull fingers closed upon hers. Had a shadow
of doubt come over the dying mind ? He
breathed a long sobbing sigh, which was half
satisfaction and half the prolonged effort of
dying.

'To do something,' he murmured, 'for the
boy.'

Here Rochford broke in, becoming accustomed
to the solemnity of the scene, and recovering
the instinct of business and a sense of
the necessity of completing what he had in
hand.

But,' he said, ' this is not the business for
which I was summoned. Everything is ready :
there are only the deeds to sign ; there is only
the signature '

Ahcia gave him a warning look to stop him,
and Russell Penton put forth his hand with an
impressive ' hush I' Perhaps it was the new
voice that caught the attention of Sir Walter.
He opened his eyes again, but half, showing
only a sightless whiteness under the heavy
lids.

Eh V he said, ' was some one speaking ? I
can't hear any more. Ahcia  what! what?  was
it  about the boy '

It was  onr own business, father ; but not to
trouble you. It shall trouble you,' she said
firmly, but with an indescribable tone that said
much, ' no more, no mores

A faint grateful smile came upon his face, the
faintest, almost imperceptible, pressure of her
hands. And then in a moment sleep came over
the aged pilgrim so near the end of his career.
They all stood in the silence of awe about the
bed, watching, unable to believe that it was
only sleep and not death. The one was almost
more awful than the other would have been.
That the common repose which refreshes all
living things should come in the middle of
dying seemed almost an unnatural break.
Even love itself in such circumstances cannot
endure delays, and would fain push the bark
of the soul out into the eternal sea.

Mrs. Russell Penton sat by the bed, holding her
father's hand still in hers. And for some time
her cousin stood beside her, silent, absorbed,

standing mechanically with his eyes fixed upon
the still face on the pillow.

Edward Penton Alas scarcely sensible of what
was passing round him. It seemed all to be
going on in a dream, in which he saw and heard
plainly enough, yet attached little meaning to
anything that occurred. He had come to conclude
his bargain, touched, deeply touched by
the condition of his old relation, his former protector
and friend, but yet more occupied by the
importance of the event to himself and to his
wife and children, who where nearer to him still.
But when he had entered the sick-room he
had stepped into a dream  everything had
changed. His business had sunk away, as it
were, into the chaos of abortive projects.
Nothing was required of him except to stand
and look on reverently while the shadows of
death gathered.

His heart was deeply touched ; it had seemed
to him natural, only natural and fitting, that he
should stand by Alicia at this solemn moment.
He was the nearest of her kin ; he was the oldest
of her friends ; he had loved her in his time ;

even now there were no two people in the world
who had the same hold upon his imagination and
his memories as these two, the father and daughter.
It was his right to be here more than
Russell Penton's ; nearer than anyone else living
he had a right to stand by her, to give her the
support of an affection as old and almost as
natural as her own. Though he had not seen
Sir Walter for years, there was no one so nearly
Sir Walter's son as he. What was said about
the boy perplexed him, almost made him impatient.
The boy  what boy ? He did not understand.
He himself was the last of the three
boys, the survivor, whose surviving had seemed
a wound and injury, but which yet gave him
rights which no one in the world, no one else
could ever have as he.

The entrance of the doctor, who came in softly,
and looked, with the gravity which dying commands
from all, upon the sleeper, disturbed the
group. The gentlemen withdrew to leave him
free for his examination, and for the whispered
directions which were necessary, carrying away
the writing-table with all its useless arrangements.

When he left the bedside they suiToimd-
ed him with questions. Was it possible that
there might be a period of revived strength ?
was it likely that he could attend to business
still ? Important business remained to be settled.

The doctor shook his head. He gave them
certain low-toned explanations which for the
moment seemed to make everything clear, butin
reality left them as Httle informed as ever;
and, on the other hand, gave them a little lecture
upon the folly of postponing business to such a
moment.

A man of Sir Walter's age, and in his state
of health, could never be calculated upon,' he
said. ' I hope the business is not vital. To
leave wills or settlements to the last is the
greatest folly.'

A statement of this kind, superfluous and absolute,
is at all times so much easier to give thana
little enlightenment upon the immediate case.
But how could the doctor tell any more than
any spectator whether the old man would wake
from that sleep to an interval of clearness and
consciousness, or whether he would dream away

the few remaining moments that lay between
him and the end of his career ?

And then stillness fell upon them all, a period
of utter quiet, of that waiting for death which
is intolerable to the living. Alicia sat by her
father's bedside alone, still holding his hand,
watching his sleep, feeling nothing but the arrest
of all things, the suspension of thought itself.
The three men had withdrawn to the ante-room,
where they Awaited for any movement or call.
Rochford, Who had no reason for any profounder
feeling than that of respectful sympathy, drew
near the fire in the shivering chill of the grey
winter morning, and after a while dozed and
dreamt of the ball, with its music and lights.
Russell Penton seated himself close to the door,
where he could see his wife at her father's bedside.
Her head was turned from him, but yet
it was giving her the support of his presence to
be there. Edward Penton was the only one
who could not rest. He went to the window
and gazed out blankly upon the cold misty
morning light, now as full day as it was likely
to be. All was whiteness upon the wide stretch

of landscape, the river milky and turbid under
the featureless whitish vapour that covered the
sky, mist hanging about the ghostly trees, cold,
damp, and penetrating, stealing to the heart ;
within the fire burned dimly, the lights had been
put out, though from the door of Sir Walter's
room still came a stream of candlelight shining
unnaturally in the grey pale suffusion of the day,

Mr. Penton wandered from the window to the
fire, then stood behind Russell Penton's chair,
and gazed into the hushed room where one lay
dying and the other watching. He thought
nothing about his business which was so strange ;
he had not yet awakened to the sense of those
wandering injunctions about the boy. He was
troubled, sad, confused in his soul, only conscious
of the close neighbourhood of death, and that
all somehow had fallen back into a kind of chaos
out of which there seemed no apparent way.

None of them knew how long the time was.
It was endless, intolerable, an awful pause in
their own living, in which everything was arrested,
even thought. For what could the thoughts
do whirling vainly about a subject on which

there could be no enlightenment, beating as it
were against a blank wall all round and round ?
In reality it was not quite an hour when Alicia
rose from the bedside and made a sign to her
husband. Sir Walter's voice broke again into
the silence, eager, quick, startling.

'Eh! eh! What what is it? What's todo
? What's to do V

They hurried in one after another, young
Rochford waking up with the air of the last
waltz still in his ear, hastening to the table,
where all the papers were still laid out. Sir
Walter had struggled up upon his bed and sat
gazing out upon them, holding his daughter fast,
who had steadily drawn one of his arms over
her shoulder by way of support. He looked like
an old prophet, with his heavy eyelids raised,
his white locks streaming.

What is  to do 1 What am I to do  before
I die ? before I '

Rochford came forward with his deed, with
the pen in his hand.

It is a signature,' he said. ' Sir Walter, your
signature  here  it is all simple ; your name,
that is all.'

Xo one moved to help him. He stood holding
out the pen, eager as if his own interests were
involved, while the rest stood motionless, saying
not a word, gazing at this venerable dying-figure
in that last blaze in the socket. Probably
the old eyes, all veiled in whiteness like the
mists of the morning, no longer saw anything,
though they seemed to look out sith solemn
intelligence  for Sir Walter made no response ;
his question had required no answer ; his eyes
flickered with a movement of the lids, as though
taking one other look round, then a smile came
over his face.

Alicia  will do it. Alicia  will think of 
everything,' he murmured, and, relapsing as it
were upon himself, sank back, to resume the
thread of conscious life no more.

The night was over. The grey day, dim
and calm, benumbed with cold, and veiled with
mists, yet full in its own occupations and labours,
was in possession of earth and sky. Thus one
ends while the others go on. There was no new
beginning to those who were chiefly concerned.
They stopped for a moment, then went on
again, life sweeping back with all its requirements

to the very edge of the chamber of death.

Ashen it was evident that no interval of consciousness
was now to be looked for, the watchers
went downstairs and found breakfast, of which
indeed they had great need, and talked in subdued
tones at first, and on the one sole subject
which seemed possible. But presently even
this bond was broken, and Russell Penton and
Rochford discussed, a little gravely, the weather,
the chances of frost, the state of the country.

Edward Penton did not join in this talk, but
he ate his breakfast solemnly, as if it had been
a serious duty, saying nothing even to Wat, who
had ventured to join the grave party. Twas
more worn out than any of them. He had
not been able to rest, and he had the additional
fatigue of the drive, not to speak of the wearing
effect of the mental struggle to which he was
so entirely unaccustomed. He wanted more
than anything else to go home. Ally, upstairs
in her room, crying out of excitement and sympathy,
and longing for her mother, had packed
up all the pretty things which had served so
little purpose, and was waiting very eagerly for

the call to return to the Hook, which it would
have been, oh I so much better had they never
left. But there had been breakfast for everybody
all the same, notwithstanding that the
troop of servants were all very anxious, wondering
what was to come of it, or rather what was
to come of them, a more important question.

The only evidence of this gi-eat over-turn of
everybody's habits in the house was that the
room in which the dancing had been remained
untouched, which was a wonderful departure
from the order and regularity of the household.
But everything is to be excused, the housekeeper
herself said, in the confusion of a death in
the family, though that was a thing for which,
considering Sir Walter's great age, they should
all have been prepared.

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MASTER OF Pennon.

Mr. Penton waited through all the dreary day.
He sent the young ones away peremptorily
at the earliest opportunity, without throwing
any light to them on the state of affairs.

It would be bad taste, the worst of taste, to
have you here at such a time,' he said, but
without explaining why. ' Tell your mother I
will come back when I can  but not before  '
He spoke in ellipses, with phrases too full of
meaning to be put into mere words.

Mab is coming with us, father,' said Ally.
We couldn't leave her here by herself.'

Mab ? who is Mab V said Mr. Penton, but he
looked for no reply.

His mind was too much absorbed to consider
what they said to him. There seemed so Httle
in their prattle that could not wait for another
time. And his mind was full of a hundred questions.
By this time, as was natural, the pathetic
impression which had been made on him when
he stood by his uncle's bedside through those
solemn moments, and felt that next to Alicia it
was he, of all the world, who had the best right
to be there, had died away. Common life had
come back to him  his own position, the prospects
of his family, what he was to do. He
wandered about the house, up and down,
with very much the air of a man inspecting it
before taking possession, which was what he
actually was.

But no such consciousness was in his
mind. He was overflowing with thought
as to what he was to do in the new crisis
at which he had arrived. It was a crisis
which ought to have been long foreseen, and
indeed had been fully entered into in detail
many a day. But lately it had been put away
from his thoughts, and other possible ties had come

kin.

He had thrust Penton away from him, and
allowed himself to feel the power of his wife's
arguments, and even to act upon the possible
increase of fortune which should be immediate,
and bring no responsibility with it. Gradually,
and with a struggle, his mind had been brought
to that point. But now all this new condition
of affairs was gone, and everything restored to
the old basis.

The change had come in a moment, so far
as he was concerned. He had not anticipated
it, had not thought of it, until Sir Walter
had suddenly lifted up his dying voice
and began to talk of the boy. The boy! he
did not realise even now, or scarcely ask
himself, who was the boy. The crisis was too
great for secondary matters. The real thing to
think of was that the new deeds had never been
signed nor completed, that no change had been
made, that Penton was his, as he had always
looked forward to it, not a new fortune unencumbered
and free, but Penton with all its
burdens, with all its honours, with the old family
importance, the position of which he had so

often heard, and so often said, that it was one
of the best in England.

Perhaps at any time he would have been
startled and alarmed by the first consciousness
of entering into this great inheritance.
It was not an advancement that could bethought
of lightly as mere getting on in the
world. It was like ascending a throne. It
was entering on a post rather than on a mere
possession. The master of Penton had claims
made upon him which were different, he thought,
from those of a mere country gentleman. At
any time there would have been solemnity in
the prospect. But now that he had put it all
away from him, and made up his mind to the
other, to mere money without any position at all,
and had calculated even on withdrawing from
the smaller claims of Penton Hook, and setting
in perfect freedom, without any responsibilities,
any land or burden of the soil, the
awe with which he felt his natural importance
come back to him, and all his plans brought to
nothing, was great. It was as if Providence
had refused to accept that sacrifice which he

had not indeed been willing to make, which he
had done not for his own pleasure but in deference
to what seemed best for the children, more
practicable for himself. Providence had made
light of all those deliberations, of the mother's
arguments, and his own laborious and cloudy
attempts to decipher what was best. Whether
it was the best or the worst, in a moment God
had changed all that, and here he was again at
the point from which he had set out  master of
Penton, or, if not so already, at least in an hour
or two to be.

And he looked, to the servants at least, exactly
as if he were taking possession, inspecting his
future property. He went from one room to
another with eyes that seemed to be investigating
everything, though in reality they saw nothing.
He walked about the library with his
hands in his pockets, looking at all the books,
then from the windows over the park, which
stretched away down to the river, and in which
there was a great deal of wood that might comedown.
He lingered long over the view ; was
he marking in his mind the clumps which were

thickest, where the trees most wanted cutting 
the easiest way to make a little money ? Then
he went to the dining-room and looked in the
same keen way at the plate upon the sideboard,
calculating perhaps which were heirlooms and
which were not.

The butler had his eye upon the probable new
master, and drew his own conclusions. And
then he went to the draT\'ing-room, where he
remained a long time, looking at everything.
The butler had a great contempt for the poor
relation who was about to come into this great
property.

f don't know what he could find to do away
with there,' that functionary said, and suggested
that perhaps the painted roof was the thing that
had occupied the speculations of the hungry
heir.

As it happened, poor Edward Penton's reflections
were of the most depressed kind. He
asked himself what would she do there  how
could she settle herself and her work-basket and
the children among those gilded pillars ? How
were they ever to fm-nisi it ? as she had said.

His wife after all was a woman of great sense.
She knew how difficult it was to adapt one way
of living to another, to transpose a household
from what was little less than a palace. But
now all her arguments were to come to nothing,
and the revolution in his own mind to be set
aside. He stood and shivered ; for the heating
had been neglected on this dismal and exciting
day. The heating and everything else had been
neglected, and the great room with one feeble
fire burning was cold as any deserted place could
be. What would she do there with Horry and
the rest of the little ones, and her basket with
the stockings to darn? Ally had asked herself
the same question, but with a sort of awed
satisfaction, feeling that this problem would
never have to be resolved. But now it had
come.

He strayed at last from the drawing-room
through the corridor to the great room sometimes
called th-e music-room, for there was an organ
in it, sometimes called the King's room, since a
Sacred Majesty had once, as at Lady Margaret
Bellendean's castle of Tillietudlem, broken his

fast there  where the dancing had been. Aud
here it was that the disorganisation of the household
became apparent. Shutters were still
closed and curtains drawn in this room. The
pale light struggled in by every crevice, by the
folds of the shutters, from the large open chimney,
which vas filled \ath flowers. The walls
were hung with greenery, garlands of ivy and
holly, and feathery bunches of the seedpods of
the clematis. They had been beautiful last
night ; they were ghastly now, looking as if they
had hung there for fifty years.

There was something in the neglect, in the
deserted place, in the contrast of all that faded
decoration with the stillness and desolation of
the day, that suited Edward Penton's mood.
The rest of the house suggested life and its
ordinary occupations, neither sad nor glad, but
serious and still. This was the banquet-hall
deserted, which is of all human things the most
dismal and suggestive. He walked up and down
looking at the banks of flowers, half seen in this
curious subdued and broken light. Here it was
that the children were dancing, timid strangers,

half afraid of it, and of all that was going on,
last night : and now to-day

Solemn steps came in at the other end, slowly
advancing over the waxed and slippery floor ;
a solemn figme in black, more grave than ever
mom-ner was, holding its hands folded.

Sir,' the butler said, ' my mistress has sent
me to tell you all is over, about a quarter of an
hour ago.'

All over ! You mean, my uncle is dead V

Sir Walter Penton died, sir, about ten minutes
or a quarter of an hour ago, at twenty-five
minutes past three.' The butler took out his
watch and looked at it with solemnity. ' Just
twelve minutes since, sir, by the clock, sir.'

It cost the man a gieat effort not to say Sir
Edward. Sir Edward it had been for twelve
minutes by his Avatch ; but decorum and a sense
that he was himself on the other side restrained
him. He paused a minute, waiting for anything
that might be said to him, then went back again,
his footsteps sounding solemnly all the way upon
the uncarpeted floor.

Edward Penton sat down on one of the red

chairs against the wall which the dancers had
used. A more forlorn picture could not have
been made. The day breaking through the
shutters, the dropping decorations, the waxed
floor reflecting faintly those lines of pale light,
and the man against the wall with his face hidden
in his hands. He might have been a ruined
spendthrift hearing of the final catastrophe of his
fortune, hearing it with metaphorical propriety,
amid the relics of feasting and merry-making.
But no one would have recognized that picture
to represent a man who had just come into his
inheritance.

He met Rochford going away as he returned
to the inhabited parts of the house.

I suppose I need not hesitate to congratulate
you,' the lawyer said, ' Sir Edward ; it is not as
if the poor old gentleman had been a nearer
relation.'

I don't know what you call near. My uncle
was the nearest relation I had of my name ; nor
why you should call him poor because he has
just died.'

I beg your pardon. I meant nothing ; it is

the ordinary way of talking,' said the lawyer,
somewhat abashed.

'And a very inappropriate one, I think,'
Edward Penton said. He had relapsed into his
usual manner, in which there was always a
little suppressed irritation. I suppose there
never was any possibility of producing '

He looked at the bag which Rochford carried.

*Its all so much waste paper,' said the young-man.
' I felt it was so as soon as I saw him ;
even if we could have got him to sign, it would
have been of no legal value; he was too far
gone. It is curious,' he added, * to be so nearly
done, and yet not done. I wonder if you are
sorry or pleased V

Edward Penton made no reply. Rochford's
ease and familiarity had seemed natural enough
a few days ago, the conceit perhaps of a youngster,
nothing more. Now it offended him, he
could not tell why.

Do you know,' he said, ' if my cousin is still
there?'

He made a movement of his hand towards
the room in which Sir Walter lay.

She has gone to her own room ; they
have persuaded her to lie down. Mr. Russell
Penton is about, I know, if you want to see
him.'

Edward Penton went on with another wave
of his hand. It was not so much his new position
(though as a matter-of-fact he felt that),
but the change in all things, and the confused absorbing
sentiment of all that had happened which
made his companion disagreeable to him, like a
presuming stranger. He himself was as a man
in a dream. As he came through those rooms
again they too were changed. They were now
his. All that foolish idea of having nothing
more to do with them was past for ever. They
were now his. He walked through them with
the step of the master, thinking involuntarily
how this and that must be changed. The
house had become to him a place no longer to
be judged on its merits as suitable or unsuitable
for the habitation of his family, but one to be
adapted, arranged, borne with as being his own.
Everything had changed  himself and his-surroundings,
his future, his place in the world,.

and the mind with which he approached that
place.

In the hbraiy, to which he returned as the
room in which he was most likely to meet someone
to whom he could talk, he found Russell
Penton, and the two men instinctively shook
hands with each other as if they had not met
before.

I hope there was no more suffering,' Edward
Penton said.

'None. He never recovered consciousness,
but just slept away. No man could have wished
a calmer end. He has had a long life, and his
dying has been very peaceful. What more could
a man desire V

Edward Penton bowed his head, and they
stood together for a moment saying nothing,
paying their tribute not only to the life but to
the state of affairs that was over. They both
felt it, the one as much as the other. To Russell
Penton it was, if not actual, at least possible
freedom, especially now that the Penton
arrangement was over. He grieved for his
father-in-law, if not painfully, yet sincerely. He

was a venerable figure, a sustaining personality
gone out of his life. He had so much less todo
and to think of, which was in its way a sorrowful
thought. But with that came the secret
exhilaration of the consciousness that now perhaps
the guidance of his own life would be his
own. He would not oppose Alicia nor endeavour
to coerce her ; that would be the greatest
mistake, he felt ; but it was likely enough that
in her softened state she would of her own
accord subdue herself to this. At least, he
hoped so, and it spread before him the prospect
of a new existence. After they had stood
together silent for a minute, Russell Penton
spoke.

I think 1 ought to say this,' he said.
*Whatever Alicia may feel,  and I fear she
will be disappointed,  1 am myself much more
pleased, Penton, that things should be as they
are.'

I thought that was your feeling all along.'
*Yes, they both knew it was; but I have
always abstained from saying anything. My
first desire was that she should as much as possible

have what she liked best. She has well
deserved it at my hands.'

Edward Penton said nothing on this subject.
It was not one in which he could deliver his-opinion.


It is a great house,' he said, ' and a great
responsibility for a man with a large family like
me.'

'You will find it perhaps easier than you
think; everything is in very perfect order.
Alicia would like me to tell you, Penton, that
though it was too late to be added as a codicil,
her father's wish is sacred to her, and that it
shall be as he desired about your boy.'

*My boy! do you mean Wat? What has
he to do with it?' Edward Penton cried, half
affronted.

He who had so nearly parted with the
birthright himself, he was a little jealous of
any interference now : and especially of this,
that the feelings of his son should be brought
into account in the matter.

You heard what Sir Walter said. Your son
took his fancy very much. He found a resemblance,

which I also can see : but alicia dishes
to hear of it, and so will you, perhaps.'

A resemblance I' said Edward ; and then he
thought of Walter Pent on, his cousin. If Wat
had not been like that unfortunate scapegrace,
why should he have thought of him now? He
said, With energy, ' There is no resemblance.
They have dwelt so long on the memory of the
boys that everything they see seems to have
got identified with them. It was not so in their
life. My boy Wat is no more like  why, you
know, Russell ; you remember what a broken-down,
miserable '

Hush !' said Russell Penton, lifting his hand.
Let their memory be respected here. Alicia
thinks with you : she sees no resemblance ; but
she will give effect to her father's Washes. Everything
he desired is sacred in her sight.'

1 hope she will think no more of it,' said
Edward Penton, growing red. * Beg of her from
me to think no more of it. I could not have 
I should not wish  in short, I should prefer
nothing more to be said on the subject. He
was an old man. His memory had got confused.

VOL. II. L

As I cannot be of any use here, can I have
something to drive home ? My wife weill be
anxious, she will want to know.'

And then there was a few minutes' brief conversation
about the funeral and all the lugubrious
business of such a moment. It was with a
sense of relief that Edward Penton quitted for
the first time the house that was now his own.
He looked back upon it with curiously mingled
feelings. He was glad to get away. It was
an escape to turn out of the avenue into the
clear undisturbed air in which there was nothing
to remind him of the close, still atmosphere, the
silence, the associations of this fatal place. But
yet when he looked back his heart swelled with
a sensation of pride. It was his. He had given
up thinking of it, avoided looking at it, weaned
his heart in every way from that house of his
fathers. Never man had tried more honestly
than he to give it up, entirely and from the
bottom of his heart  this thing which was not
to be for him. And now, without anything that
could be called his doing, lo ! it had come back
into his hands. It was the doing of Providence,

he thoiiglit : bis heart swelled with a sort of
solemn pride.

As he went silently along, the landscape took
another aspect in his sight. It was the country
in which he was to spend all the rest of his life.
It was his country, in which he was one of the
chief people, a man important to many, known
wherever he passed. By degrees a strange elation
got into his mind.

Drive quickly, I am in haste to get home,'
he said to the groom who drove him.

Yes, Sir Edward,' said the man, respectfully.

He had changed his very name  everything
was changed. Then as the red roof of Penton
Hook appeared below at the foot of the hill he
thought of the anxious faces looking out for
him, the young ones with awe in them, thinking
of the first death that had crossed their way ;
his wife wistful, ready to read in his face what
had happened. But none of them knowing
what had really happened  that Penton was his
after all.

l2

CHAPTER IX.

AN ENCOUNTER UNFORESEEN.

The young people drove from Penton to the
Hook very silent and overawed, the two girls
close together, and Walter opposite to them,
looking very heavy and dull, his eyes red with
want of sleep and the air of one who has been
up all night in every line of him. It is curious
what an air of neglect this gives even to the
clothes. He felt shabby, out of order, in every
way uncomfortable in body and dazed in mind,
not feeling that he knead anything about what
had happened, nor that he cared to think of that.
He almost went to sleep with the closeness and
the motion of the carriage, and took no more

notice of the presence of the stranger opposite
to him than if she had been another sister. It
had annoyed him for the first moment to have
her there, but by this time he was quite indifferent
to the fact, indifferent to everything, dazed
With sleep and agitation and the weakening
influence of a struggle past.

But there came a moment as they neared
home when his senses returned to him with a
bound. He was looking vaguely out of the
carriage window seeing nothing, when suddenly,
vaguely, there appeared at a distance, going up
a road which led away from the main road deep
into the quiet of the fields, a solitary figure. It
was little more than a speck upon the road, a
little shadow almost like that of a child : but it
woke Walter fully up in a moment and made his
heart beat. He called to the coachman to stop,
to the gi-eat astonishment of Ally, who thought
that something more must have happened in a
day so full of fate, and cried out,

 What is it, Wat, what is the matter V with
anxiety in her tone.

Nothing,' he said, opening the door as the

horses drew up ; 'but I should prefer to walk if
you don't mind ; I think I shall go to sleep altogether
if I stay here

Shall I come too V said Ally : but a glance
at her companion showed her that this was
impracticable.

Oh, Wat, don't be long ! Mother will want
to ask you  she will want to know  ='

You can tell her as much as I can,' he said,
taking off his hat in honour of Mab, who looked
out with much surprise at this sudden interruption
of the drive, which was so dreary and yet
so full of novelty and interest. And then the
carriage went on.

Ally looking out of the window saw with
great perplexity and distress that he turned back
along the road. Was he going back to Penton ?
where was he going ? Mab by her side immediately
interposed with a reason.

Men don't like close carriages,' she said ;
they always prefer walking coming home from
places. I don't wonder ; I should walk if I
might.'

We might if we were to go together,' said

Ally ; ' we always walk with Walter, Anne and
I. He likes it too. Let us  ' But then she
remembered that Wat had given no sort of invitation.
And when she looked out again he had
vanished from the road. Where had he gone?
This was very startling, not to be explained by
anything that occurred to Ally. She added,
quickly, 'But it is very cold, and mother will
be anxious.' And the carriage rolled on without
any further interruption through the village and
down the steep and stony way.

Walter could not have restrained himself even
had the occasion of his leaving them been now
apparent. He felt as if all his life were involved
in getting speech of her, in receiving her sympathy
and hearing her voice. He had never
had such an opportunity before, never met her,
scarcely in daylight seen her face, and to see
her pursuing the loneliest road, where nobody
ever appeared, which led nowhere in particular,
where he could have her all to himself without
the possibility of being sent away ! He hurried
along after her, striking across a field and dropping
over a low wall, which brought him immediately

in front of her as she strolled along.
She gave a little cry at sight of him, or rather
at the suddenness of the apparition, not distinguishing
at first who it was. She was dressed
in very dark stuff with some rough fur about
her throat and a thick gauze veil shrouding the
upper part of her face. The little outline was
80 slim and pretty that any imperfection in
costume or appearance was lost in the daintiness
of the trim form. Indeed, how should
Walter have seen any imperfection ? She was
not like anybody he had ever known. What
was different could not but be an added grace.

You didn't expect to see me,' he said, coming
up to her with his hat in his hand.

How should I ? I thought no one knew this
path but I. It is so quiet. And I saw no one
on the road, nothing but a carriage. Ah, I
know ! You jumped out of the carriage. It
was hot and stifling, and there were ladies in it
who made you do propriety. I know.'

'There was my sister,' said Walter, 'but I
saw you. That was my reason, and the best
one a man could have.'

You are only a boy,' she said, shaking her
head with a smile. Only her chin and lips were
clear of that envious thick veil. The rest of
her face was as if behind a mask, but how sweet
the mouth was, and the smile that curved it !
And how could you tell it was I ? Everybody
wears the same sort of thing, tweed frock, and
jacket, and '

There is nobody like you ; it is cruel to ask
me how I knew. If you would only understand
'

1 have heard that sort of thing before, Mr.
Penton.'

Yes, I don't doubt every fellow would say it,
of course ; but nobody could mean it so much
asL'

That's what you all say ; but 1 don't believe
it a bit : only I suppose it amuses you to say it,
and it does, a little, amuse me. There are so
few things,' she said, with a sigh, ' to amuse one
here.'

That is what I feel,' cried the lad ; ' nothing
we have nothing to keep you here. It is all
so humdrum and paltry  a little country place.

There is nothing in it good enough for you

She laughed with an air of keen amusement,
which in his present condition slightly jarred
upon Walter.

It is a great deal too good for me,' she said,
old Rochford's niece. If anybody speaks tome,
I curtsey and say, " Yes, ma'am, it's doing
me good, it is indeed, this fine fresh air." '

I wish,' said the boy, ' you would drop this,
and tell me once for all who you really are. I'm
not happy to-day. We are all in great trouble.
I wish you would not laugh, but just be serious
once.'

Oh, no, sir, I'll not laugh if you don't like it
nor nothing else as you don't like. I knows
my place and how to behave to my betters.
I'm Emmy, old Rochford's niece.' And she
paused in the middle of the road to make him a
curtsey. * I've never said nothing else, now 'ave
I, sir?'

He looked at her with irritation beyond expression.
Could not she see that he was in no
humour for jest to-day ? And yet he could not
but feel that the tone of her imitation was per-feet,

and that as she said these latter words it
was certainly in the voice and with the manner
which old Rochford's niece would have employed.


'You don't know,' he said, ' how you fret me
with all that. I thought when I saw you that
I'd fly to you and get comforted a little. I don't
want to have jokes put upon me just now. All
this is very amusing  it's so well done  and it's
so droll to think that it's you ; but I have been
through a great fight this morning,' said "Walter,
with that self-pity which is so warm at his age.
He felt his eyes moisten, something was in his
throat  he was so sorry for himself; and he
almost thought it would be best, after all, to
hurry home to his mother, who always understood
a man, instead of lingering out here in
the cold, even vnih the most delightful, the most
enthralled of women, who would do nothing
but laugh. He was in this mood, with his eyes
cast down, his head bent, standing still, yet with
a sort of movement in his figure as if he would
have gone away again, when suddenly a shock,
a thrill of sweeter consciousness went through

him  and his whole being seemed rapt in delicious
softness, comprehension, consolation. She
had put her hand suddenly on his arm with a
quick, impulsive movement.

Poor boy !' she said. ' You have been in a
great fight 1 Tell me all about it.'

Her voice had changed to the tenderest,
coaxing tone.

Ah !' he exclaimed, in sudden ecstasy, holding
close to his side the hand that had stolen
within his arm  and for some time could say no
more.

'Well?'

'Yes, yes I' cried Walter, 'I'll tell you presently.
I don't know that I want to tell you
at all I want you to take an interest in
me.'

'Oh, if that is all!' she said; then, after a
moment, drew her arm away. 'If we should
meet anyone, Mr. Walter Penton, it would not
look at all pretty to see you walking arm-in-arm
with a  girl who lives in the village ; a
girl whom nobody knows, and, of course, whom
everybody thinks ill of; but I can hear you

quite well without that. Come, tell me what it
is. Did you say a flight or a fight V

Both,' said Walter.

He made various attempts to recover the
hand again, but they were all fruitless.
The mere touch, however, had somehow 
how, he could not tell  made things more
natural, harmonised all the contrarieties in life,
brought back a better state of affairs. The
fumes of sleep and fatigue seemed to die away
from his brain : the atmosphere grew lighter. It
did not occur to him that to disclose the most
private affairs of his family to this little stranger
was anything extraordinary. He told her all
about the bargain between his father and his
cousin, and how he himself had been left out,
and his consent never asked, though he was the
heir ; and what had happened this morning 
how he had been sent to fetch the parties to
this bargain, and the papers, and how he had
been tempted to delay or not to go.

Jf I had not answered from my room when I
heard them, if I had pretended not to hear, if I
had only held back, which would have been na

sin! Should I have done it? Shouldn't I have
done it V cried Walter, quite unaware of the
absurdity of his appeal.

The girl listened to all this with her head
raised to him in an attitude of attention, but in
reality with the most divided interest and a
mind full of perplexed impatience. What did
she care about his doubts  doubts and difficulties
which she could not understand  which did
not concern her ? Her attention even flagged,
though her looks did not. She wanted none of
this grave talk; it was only the lighter kind of
intercourse which she fully understood.

Then it was you,' she said, seizing the only
tangible point in all this outburst, ' that I heard
thundering past the cottage just before daylight?
I couldn't think what it could be.'

Did you hear me ? I looked up at the windows,
but they were all closed and shut up. I
wish,' cried the young man, ' I had known you
were awake, I should not have felt so desolate.'

Oh,' she cried, With a little toss of her head,
what good could that have done you V Then,
seeing the cloud come over his face again which

had lifted for a moment, ' And how has it all
ended?' she asked.

wended?'

He looked at her with sm-prise. He had
not even asked himself that question, or
realised that there was a question at all. How
could it end but in one-way ?

It is so good of you to tell me,' she resumed,
when I am only a stranger and know nothing ;
but I hope they won't succeed in cheating you
out of your money.'

'My money? oh, there is nothing about
money. Money is not the question.'

'I know,' she said, with a pretty air of confusion
 *your property, I mean; but they
couldn't really take it from you, could they ?
Tell me what you will do when you come into
your own. I should like to know.'

Walter's heart stood still for the moment. He
felt as if he had suddenly come up against a
blank world. Was this all she understood or
would take notice of, of the struggle he had
gone through? Had she no feeling for his
moral difficulties or sympathy; or was it perhaps

that she thought that struggle too private
to be discussed, and thus rebuked him by turning
the conversation aside from that too delicate
channel? In the shock of feeling himself misunderstood,
he paused bewildered, and seized
upon the idea that she understood him too
clearly, and checked him with a more exquisite
perception of her own.

You think I should not speak of it V he said.
You think I should not blame  you think  r
Oh, I understand. A delicate mind would not
say a word. But I would not, except to you.
It is only to you''

Now I wonder,' said the girl, ' why it should
be to me? for I don't understand anything
about it. And all that you've been telling me
about wanting one thing and doing another, I
can't tell what you mean  except that I hope it
will end very well, and that you will get what
you want and be able to live very happy at the
end. That's how all the stories end, don't you
know. And tell me, when you come into all
that fine property, what will you do f

She wanted nothing but to bring him back to

the badinage which she understood and could
play her part in. x\ll this grave talk and discussion
of what he ought or ought not to have
done embarrassed her. She did not understand
it, and yet she knew by instinct that to show
how little she understood would be to lose something
of her attraction ; for though she was
scarcely capable of comprehending the ideal
woman whom the youth supposed he had found
in her, yet she divined that it was not herself
but an imaginary being who was so sweet in
Walter's eyes. Perhaps it was even with a dull
pang and sense of her inferiority that she discovered
this; but she could not make herself
other than she was. At any risk she had to
regain that lighter tone which was alone possible
to her.

She put up her veil a little and looked at
him vith a sort of laughing provocation in her
eyes. It was a vulgar version of the *Come,
woo me,' of the most delightful of heroines.
She could understand him or any man on that
ground. She knew how to reply, to elude, or
to lead on ; but in other regions she was not

VOL. II. M

SO well prepared ; she preferred to lead the
conversation back to herself and him.

'I do not suppose,' he said, in a subdued
tone, ' that there will be any property to come
in to.'

Oh, that is nonsense,' she said, putting this
denial lightly away ; ' of course there will be
property some time or other. And when you
come into your fortune, tell me, what shall you
do?'

Walter gave up with a sigh his hope of receiving
support and consolation ; but even now
he was not able to follow her lead.

 I suppose,' he said, very cheerfully, ' I
shall have to go to Oxford. That's the only
thing I shall be allowed to do.'

Oh, to Oxford !' she cried, with disdain.

'I don't know that I wish it, only it's the
right thing to do, I suppose,' said Walter, with
another sigh. ' Don't you think so V

1 think so ? No, indeed ! If I were you 
oh, if I were you ! That's what I should like
to be, a young gentleman with plenty of money
and able to do whatever I pleased.'

Oh,' he said, with a shudder, ' don't say so ;
you who are so much finer a thing  so much 
don't you know  it is a sort of sacrilege to talk
so.'

At this she laughed with frank contempt.

That's nonsense,' she said ; ' but I should not
go to Oxford. I'd go into the Guards. It is
they that have the best of it ; almost always in
London, and going everywhere. I should not
marry, not for years and years.'

Marry !" cried Walter, and blushed, which it
did not occur to his companion to do.

No, I should not marry,' said the girl ; ' I
should have my fuD, that is, if I were a gentleman.
I should make the money go ; I should
go in for horses and all sorts of things. I should
just go to the other extremity and do everything
the reverse of what I have to do now.
That's because I can do so little now. Come,
tell me, Mr. Penton, what should you do?'

Walter was much discomposed by this inquiry.
He was disturbed altogether by the turn
the conversation had taken. It was not at all
what he had intended. He felt baffled and put

m2

aside out of the way; but yet there was an
attraction in it, and in the arch look which was
in her eyes. He felt the challenge, and it
moved him, notwithstanding that in his heart
he was deeply disappointed that she had thrown
back his confidences and not allowed herself to
be drawn into his thoughts. He half understood,
too, whither she wanted to lead him 
into those encounters of wit in which she had
so easily the mastery, in which he was so serious,
pleading for her grace, and she so capricious,
so full of mystery, holding him at bay.
But he could not all at once, after all the experiences
of the morning, begin to laugh again.

I am stupid to-day,' he said. * I can't think
of fortune or anything else. I daresay I should
do just the reverse of what you say.'

What ! marry V she said. ' Oh, silly ! You
should not think of that for years.'

I should do more than think of it,' cried
Walter, * if I  if you  if there was any chance  '
The boy blushed again, half with the shy emotion
of his years, the sudden leaping of his blood
towards future wonders unknown. And then

he stopped short, breathing hard. ' You tempt
me to say things only to mock me,' he said.
You think it is all fun ; but I am in earnest,
deep in earnest, and I mean what I '

He stopped suddenly, the words cut short un
his Hps. They had turned a comer of the road,
and close to them, so close that Walter stumbled
over the stones on which he was seated, slowly
chipping away with his hammer, was old Crock-ford,
with ruddy old face and white hair, and
his red comforter twisted about his neck.

Is that you, baggage V said the old man,
who saw the girl first as they came round the
comer. ' WTiat mischief are ye after now? I
never see one like you for mischief. Why can't
ye let the lads alone ? Why, Master Walter I'
he cried, in consternation, letting the hammer
fall out of his hand.

'Yes, Rochford. What's the matter? Do
you think I am a ghost ?' said Walter, in some
confusion.

It was cowardly, it was miserable, it was
the smallest thing in the world. Was he
ashamed to be seen with her, she who was (he

said to himself) the most perfect creature, the
sweetest and fairest ? No, it could not be that ;
it was only what every young man feels when
a vulgar eye spies upon his most sacred feelings.
But he grew very red, looking the old
stone-breaker, the road-mender, humblest of all
functionaries, in the face as he spoke.

Ghost !' said old Rochford, ' a deal worse
than that. A ghost could do me no harm. I
don't believe in 'em. But the likes of hur, that's
another pair o' shoes. I know'd as she'd get me
into trouble the moment I set eyes on her. Be
off with you home, and let the young gentleman
alone. You've made him think you're a
lady, I shouldn't wonder. And if Mr. Penton
found out he'd put me out of my cottage. Don't
give me none of your sauce, but run home.'

I have done no harm,' said the girl. ' Mr.
Penton couldn't put you out of your cottage
because I took a walk. And you can send me
away when you please. You know I'm not
afraid of that.'

I know you're always up to mischief,' said
the old man,  and that if it isn't one it's another.

I've had enough of you. Theses good and
there's bad of women just Hke other creatures,
but for making mischief there's nought like
them, neither beasts nor man. Be off vith you
home.'

Rochford, you forget yourself. That's nota
way to speak to a  to a young lady,' cried
Walter, wavering between boyish shame and
boyish passion. * And as for my father '

A young lady ; that's all you know ! Do you
know who she is, Mr. Walter?' cried the old
man.

I am old Rochford's niece,' said the girl,
'and I know my place. I've never given myself
out for any more than I am ; now have I, sir ?
Thank you for walking up the hill with me,
and talking so kind. But it's time I was going
home. He's quite right, is the old man ; and
my duty to you, sir, and good day ; and I hope
you will come into your fortune all the same.'

How it was that she turned, standing before
him there in the road in all her prettiness and
cleverness, into Rochford's niece, with the diction
and the air proper to her * place,' was what

Walter could not tell. She cast him a glance
as she turned round which transfixed him in the
midst of his wonder and trouble, then turned
and took the short cut across the field, running,
getting over the stile like a bird. Which was
she, one or the other ? Walter stood and gazed
stupidly after her, not knowing what to think
or say.

CHAPTER X.

THE NEW STATE OF AFFAIRS.

When Mr. Penton in the clog-cart was heard
coming down the steep path to the open gates
there was a universal rush to door and "window
to receive him. The delay in his coming had
held the household in a high state of tension,
which the arrival of the carriage with Ally and
the young visitor increased. The girls could
give no information except that Sir Walter was
very ill, and that Mr. Russell Penton himself
had put them into the carriage and sanctioned
their coming away. Ally took her mother
anxiously aside to explain.

'I didn't know what to do. She is Mr.
Russell Penton's niece ; she has no father or

mother. She wanted to come, and he seemed
to want her to come. Oh, I hope I haven't
done wrong ! I couldn't tell what to do.'

Of course, there is the spare room,' said Mrs.
Penton, but she was not delighted by the
appearance of the stranger. ' Tell Martha to
light a fire in the spare room. But you must
amuse her yourselves, you and Anne; your
father must not be troubled with a visitor in the
house.'

Oh, she will not be like a visitor, she will belike
one of ourselves,' said Ally.

The father, however, observed the little fair
curled head at the drawing-room window as he
drove up, and it annoyed him. A stranger
among them was like a spy at such a moment.
The girls were at the window, and Walter,
newly returned, had been standing at the gate,
and Mrs. Penton was at the door. He jumped
down, scarcely noticing the anxious look of
inquiry with which she met him, aud stopped
on the step to take a sovereign from his Waistcoat
pocket, which he handed to the groom who
had driven him.

Thank you, Sir Edward,' said the man,
touching his hat with gi-eat obsequiousness.

Sir Edward ' and a sovereign ! The two
things together set Mrs. Penton's heart beating
as it scarcely ever had beat before. She did
not understand it for the moment. ' Sir
Edward ' and a sovereign I This perhaps was
the most impressive incident of alL

Then he took her by the arm without a word
of explanation.

Come with me into the book-room, Anne.'

He had not a word even for little Molly, who
came fluttering like a little bird across the hall
and embraced his leg, and cried, ' Fader, fader !
in that little sweet twitter of a voice which was
generally music to his ears.

Take her away,' was all he said, with a
hasty pat of her little shining head. His face
was as grave as if the profoundest trouble had
come upon him, and wore that vague air of
resentment which was natural to him. Fate or
Fortune or Providence, however you like to call
it, had been doing something to Edward Penton
again. As a matter of course, it was always

doing something to him  crossing his plans,
setting them all wrong, paying no attention to
his feelings. There was no conscious profanity
in this thought, nor did the good man even suppose
that he was arraigning the Supreme Disposer
of all events. He felt this sincerely, with
a sense of injury which was half comic, half
tragic. Mrs. Penton was used to it, and used
to being upbraided for it, as if she had somehow
a secret influence, and if she pleased might
have arrested the decisions of fate.

Well, Edward f she said, breathless, as he
closed the book-room door.

Well,' he replied. The fire was low, and he
took up the poker violently in the first place
and poked and raked till he made an end of it
altogether. ' I thinks he said, ' after being out
all the morning, I might at least find a decent
fire.'

I'll make it up in a moment, Edward. A
little wood will make it all right.'

A little wood ! and you'll have to ring the
bell for it, and have half-a-dozen people running
and the whole house disturbed, just when I

have so much to say to you I Xo, better
freeze than that !' He turned his back to the
fire, which, after all, was not quite without
warmth, and added, after a moment, not looking
at her, contracting his brows, and with a
sort of belligerent shiver to let her see that he
was cold, and that it was her fault. ' My uncle
is dead.'

Is it all oyer, Edward ? I fancied that it
must be soon ;' and then she added, with a little
timidity, ' Were you in time V

In time I I was there for hours.' He knew
very well what she meant, but it was a sort of
pleasure to him to prolong the suspense. ' Of
course,' he said, slowly, 'he could not be
expected to recover at his age. Alicia should
have known better than to have had  dances
and things at his age.'

Dances I I have had no time to speak to
Ally. I didn't know : oh, how dreadful, Edward,
and the old man dying I'

*The old man wasn't dying then,' he said,
pettishly. ' How were they to suppose he was
going to die ? He has often been a great deal

worse. He was an old man who looked as if he
might have lived for ever.'

After this his wife made no remark, but
fm-lively  her housewifely instincts not permitting
her to see it go out before her eyes 
stooped to the coal-box standing by to put
something on the fire.

Let it alone !' he said, angrily. ' At such a
moment to be poking among the coals! Do
you know what has happened? Can't you
realise it a little ? Here we have Penton on our
hands  Penton ! That place to be furnished,
fitted out, and lived in ! How are we to do it?
I am in such a perplexity, I think, as never
man was. And, instead of helping me, all
your thoughts are taken up with mending the
fire !'

Mrs. Penton sat down suddenly in the first
chair. She put her hand upon her heart, which
had begun to jump.

<= Then you were not in time ? Oh, I thought
so from the first. To go on wasting day after
day, and he such an old man !'

And in the extreme excitement of the moment

she began to cry a little, holding her hand
upon her fluttering heart.

It was what I always feared ; when there
is a thing that is troublesome and difficult,
that is always the thing that happens,' she
cried.

Her husband did not make any immediate
reply. He wheeled round in his turn and
took up the poker, but presently threw it down
again.

It is no use making a fuss over that now.
It's that fellow Rochford's fault. By the way,'
he said, turning round again sharply, ' mind,
Annie, I won't have that young fellow coming
here so much. It might not have mattered
before, but now it's out of character  entirely
out of character. Mind what I say.'

Mrs. Penton took no notice of this. She went
on, with a little murmur of her own :

No, it is of no use making a fuss. We can't
undo it now. To think it might have been
settled yesterday, or any day I and now it never
can be settled whatever we may do.'

I don't know what you mean by settled,' he

said, hastily ; ' nothing can be more settled ; it
is as clear as daylight : not that there could be
any doubt at any time. The thing we've got
to think of is what we are to do.'

With all the children,' said Mrs. Penton,
and that great empty house, and no ready
money or anything. Oh, Edward, how can I
tell what we are to do ? It has been before me
for years. And then I thought when your
cousin spoke that all was going to be right.'

There's no use speaking of that now.'

No, I don't suppose there's any use. Still
when one thinks  which of comes I can't help
doing ; when your cousin came I thought it was
all right. Though you never would listen tome,
I knew that you would listen to her. And
now here it is again just as if that had never
been !'

It was, perhaps, not generous of Mrs. Penton
to indulge in these regrets, but it was expecting
from her something more than humanity is
capable of, to suppose that she would instantly
turn into a consoler, and forget that she had
ever prophesied woe. That is very well for an

ideal heroine, a sweet young Tvife who is of the
order of the embodied angel. But Mrs. Penton
was the mother of a large family, and she had
other things to think of than merely keeping
her husband in a tranquillity which perhaps he
did not desire. When there are so many
interests involved, it is not easy for a woman to
behave in this angelic way. Perhaps her husband
did not expect it from her. He stood
leaning his back upon the mantelpiece with a
countenance which had relapsed into its usual
half-resentful quiet. He was not angry nor
sui-prised, nor did he look as if he were paying
much attention. It gave him a little time to
collect his own thoughts while she got her little
plaint and iiTCstrainable reflections over. Sympathy
is in this as much as in other more demonstrative
ways. If she had got over it in a
moment without any expression of feeling, he
would probably have been shocked, and felt
that nothing mattered to her ; but he got calm,
while she, too, had her little grumble and
complaint against fate.

The thing,' he said, ' now, is to think what
VOL. II. N

we must do. I shan't hurry the Russell Pentons ;
they can take their time : and in the meantime
we must look about us. The thing is there will
be no rents coming in till Lady-day, and it's only
Christmas. I never thought I should have seen
it in this light. To succeed to Penton seemed
always the thing to look forward to. It is you
that have put it in this light.'

'What other light could I put it in, Edward 1
Penton is very different from this, and we have
never been much at our ease here. I was always
frightened for what would happen when you
began to realise  But, dear me,' she added,
what is the use of telling ? We must just
make the best of it. Nothing is quite so bad as
it seems likely to be. With prudence and taking
care, perhaps, after all, we maj do '

'Do!' he said, 'to go to Penton, the great
house of the family, and to be the head of the
family, and to have nothing better before one
than a hope that we shall be able to do '

And then there was a pause between this
careful and troubled pair ; and of all things in the
world, any stranger who had seen them would

have imagined last of all that they had succeeded
to a great inheritance, and that the man at least
had attained to what had been his hope and
di-beam for years.

Well,' she said at last, ' I can't do you any
good, Edward, and the bell for dinner will be
ringing directly. You must have had an agitating
morning, and I daresay ate no breakfast,
and you will be the better for your dinner. I
suppose we ought to draw down all the blinds.'

Why should you draw down the blinds ?
There is not too much light.'

'I should not Eke,' said Mrs. Penton, 'to be
wanting in any mark of respect. And, after all,
Sir Walter was your nearest relation, and you
are his successor, so that it is really a death in
the family.'

She walked to the window as she spoke, and
began to draw down the blind. He followed
her hastily, and stopped her with an impatient
hand.

'My windows look into the garden. Who is
coming into the garden to see whether we pay
respect or not ? I won't have it anywhere. On

n2

the funeral clay, if you please, but no more. I
won't have it !' It did him a little good to have
an object for his irritation. She turned round
upon him with some surprise, feeling the imperative
grasp of his hand upon her arm. Perhaps
that close encounter and her startled look affected
him ; perhaps only the disturbed state in
which he was, with all emotions close to the
surface. He put his other hand upon her further
shoulder, and held her for a moment, looking at
her. ' My dear,' he said, * do you know you're
Lady Penton now V

She gave him another look, full of surprise
and almost consternation.

I never thought of that,' she said.

No, I never supposed you did  but so it is.
There has not been a Lady Penton for thirty
years. There couldn't be a better one,' he said,
with a little emotion, kissing her on the forehead.

The look, the caress, the little solemnity of the
announcement overcame her. Lady Penton !
How could she ever accustom herself to that
name, or think it was she who was meant by it ?
It drove other matters for the moment out of

her head. And then the bell rang for dinner 
the solid family meal in the middle of the day,
Which had suited all the habits of the family
at Penton Hook. Already it seemed to be out
of place. She dried her eyes with a tremulous,
half-apologetic hand, and said,

'You know, Edward, the children  must
always have their dinner at this hour.'

To be sure,' he replied. ' I never supposed
there could be any change in that respect.'

And you must want some food,' she said,
'and a little comfort'  then, as she went before
him to the door, she paused with a little hesitation,
' you know they brought a little girl with
them, a niece of Russell Penton's? It is a pity
to have a stranger to-day, but they could not
help it

'No, I don't suppose they could help it,' said
Sir Edward.

Neither he nor she knew anything more of
their visitor than that she was a girl, Russell
Penton's niece.

They all met round the table in the usual
way, but yet in a way which was not at all

usual. The father and mother came in arm-in-arm,
after the children had gathered in the
dining-room  that is to say, he had taken her
arm, placing his hand within it, and pushing her
in a little before him into the room. The little
children had clambered into their high chairs,
and little Molly sat at the lover end, which washer
usual place, close to her father's chair, flourishing
a spoon in the air, and singing her little
song of ' Fader, fader I' Molly was always the
one that called him to dinner when he was
busy, and thus the cry of ' fader !' had become
associated with dinner in her small mind.

The elder ones stood about waiting for their
parents, Mab between Ally and Anne, looking
curiously on at all the manners and customs of
this new country in which she found herself 
the unknown habits of a large family, who were
not rich  all of which particulars were wonderful
in her eyes.

Walter, as his mother at once saw, bore a
strange aspect abstracted and far-away  as if
his mind were full of anything in the world
except the scene around him. Perhaps it was

fatigue, for the poor boy had been up all night ;
perhaps the crisis, which was so extraordinary,
and which contradicted everything they had
been planning and thinking of. The elder
children were all grave, disturbed, a little overawed
by all that was coming to pass. And for
some time there was scarcely anything said.
The little bustling of carving, of serving the
children, of keeping them all in order, soon absorbed
the mother as if it had been an ordinary
day ; but , at the other end of the table, neither
Ally, looking at him with anxious eyes on the
one side, nor Molly on the other, got much attention
from their father, who was occupied by
such different thoughts. Mab was the only one
who was free of all arrive p?iS6?. She had
scarcely known Sir Walter ; how could she be
overwhelmed by his death ? and it made no
difference to her; whereas this plunge into
novelty and the undiscovered was more wonderful
to her than anything she had ever known.
She watched the children and all their ways 
the little clamour of one, the steady perseverance
of another, the watchful wav in which

Horry devoured and kept the lead, observing
lest any of the brotherhood should get before
him as he worked through his meal  with
delighted interest.

Are they always like that V she whispered
to Anne. ' Do you remember all their names ?
Do they always eat as much ? Oh, the little
pigs, what darlings they are !' cried Mab, under
her breath.

Anne did not like to hear the children called
little pigs,' even though the other word was
added.

They don't eat any more than other children,'
she said.

And Anne, too, if she was not anxious
was at least very curious and eager to
hear all that had happened, which only father
knew. And father's brow was full of care.
They all turned it over in their minds in their
different fashions, and asked each other what
could possibly have happened worse than had
been expected; for already experience had
made even these young creatures feel that
something worse happening was the most likely,

a great deal more probable, than that there was
something better. The mother was the most
fortunate, who divided and arranged everything,
and had to make allowances for Horry's
third help when she first put a spoon into the
pudding, a matter of severe and abstruse calculation
which left little space in the thoughts for
lesser things.

When dinner was over, the children all
rushed out with that superfluity of spirits which
is naturally produced by a full meal  but also
a little quarrelsome as well, making a great
noise in the hall, and requiring a great deal of
management before they could be diverted into
the natural channels in which human energy
between the ages of twelve and two has to
dissipate itself in the difficult moment of the
afternoon. When the weather was good they
all scampered out into the garden, where indeed
Horry and his brothers rushed now with the
shouts of the well-fed and self-satisfied. To
recover these rebels on one hand, and to get
the little tumult of smaller children dancing
about in all the passages dispersed and quiet

was a piece of work which employed all the
energies of the ladies.

Mab Russell looked on admiring in the midst
of that little rabble. She would have liked,
above all things, to head an insurrection, and
besiege the mother and sisters in their own
stronghold. She went so far as to hold out her
skirts over Horry, who took refuge behind her,
seeing the face of an ally where he expected it
least. They were all anxious to get the riot
over, but Mab, who knew no better, interrupted
the course of justice. Oh, how awkward it is
to have a stranger in the house when the family
affairs are trembling in the balance, and no one
knows what is going to happen ! This was
what Ally and Anne said to each other, almost
weeping over that contrariety of fortune, when
they were compelled, instead of hearing all
about it, to go round the grounds with Mab and
show how high the water had come up last
wear.

CHAPTER XI.

NEW PLANS.

Notwithstanding all the hindrances that envious
fate could send, the news so important to
the family got itself circulated among them at
last, with the result that the strangest excitement,
elation, and despondency, a complication
of feelings utterly unknown in their healthful
history, took possession of the Penton family.
They had made up their minds to one thing 
they now found themselves and all their projects
and plans swallowed up in another. They
had adapted themselves, the young ones with
the flexibility of youth, to the supposed change
in their fortunes. They had now to go back

again, to forget all those innumerable consultations,
arrangements, conclusions of all kinds,
and take up their old plans where they had been
abandoned. It had been dreadful to give up
Penton. It was scarcely more agreeable to
take it back again. And yet an elation, an
elevation was in all their minds. Penton was
theirs, that palace of the gods. They were no
longer nobodies, they were people of importance.


The girls found it beyond measure uncomfortable,
distracting, insupportable, that on this
day of all others, when they had a thousand
things to say to each other  questions to ask,
suggestions to make, the most amazing revolution
to talk over, there should be a stranger
always between them, one whom, with that
civility which was born with them, and in which
they had been trained, they felt themselves
constrained to explain everything to, whom
they would not leave out of their conversation
or permit to feel that she was an intruder. She
was an intruder all the same. She was in the
way, horribly in the way, at this eventful

moment. The family was dissolved by her
presence. The father and mother retired together
to the book-room to talk there, a thing
they never would have done but for the
stranger. And Walter strolled off on his side,
scarcely saying a word to his sisters, whom he
could not approach or communicate his sentiments
to in consequence of Mab. It was a
heavy task to the two girls to have to entertain
her, to go round and round the garden with her, to
point out the views of Penton, to explain to her
what it was about, when one or another would
burst out into some irretrievable exclamation or
remark ; but the fate of womankind in general
Alas upon these devoted young women. They
had to entertain the visitor, to occupy themselves
with the keeping up of appearances, and
to put everything that interested them most
aside in their hearts.

We put this seat here because it is the best
view of Penton. No, it isn't very shady in
summer, it is a little exposed to the wind ; but
then Penton '

We used to be so much interested in every

view. Is this the best, or the one from the top
ofthehilH'

Oh, the one on the top of the hill. Oh, I
wish Penton was at the bottom of the sea !'

I don't,' cried Anne. ' After all, it is only
the confusion with having changed om* minds.
It is so much better not to change one's mind,
that lets so many new thoughts come in.'

And most likely the old thoughts were the
best,' said Ally, softly, with a little sigh. Then
she added, ' You must think us so strange ; but
it is only just to-day, for we are all excited and
put out.'

One would think you did not like coming
into your fortune,' said Mab. ' Is it because of
old Sir Walter? But Aunt Gerald said you
scarcely knew him.'

We never saw him ; but it is terrible to think
of being better off because some one has died  '

'And it is more than that. It is because we
thought we were to give it all up, and now it
seems it is all ours '

And we were always brought up to think so
very much of it,' Ally said. And then she

added, * Shouldn't you like to come round and
see where the children have their gardens ; it
is quite high and dry, it is beyond the highest
mark. No flood has ever come up here.'

This was the supreme distinction of the
terrace and that part of the garden that lay
beyond it. They were quite proud to point out
its immunity from the floods : as they passed
they bad a glimpse through the windows of the
book-room of Mr. and Mrs.  nay, of Sir Edward
and Lady Penton, sitting together, he with a
pencil in his hand jotting down something upon
a piece of paper, she apparently reckoning up
upon the outstretched fingers of her hand. Ally
and Anne looked at each other ; they would all
have been deep in these calculations together if
Mab had not been there.

Walter went upon his own way. Perhaps
had the visitor been a man he might have had
the same confinement, the same embarrassment :
but probably he would have undertaken nothing
of the sort. Probably he would have thrown
over his guest upon the girls. What were girls
good for but to undertake this sort of thing,

and set more important persons free ? For himself
he did not feel able for anything but to
realise the new position; to tm'n everything
over in his mind, to hm-ry away to the neighbourhood,
at least, of the one creature in the
world who (he thought) might look at it from
his point of view and care what he felt. Could
he still think, after the reception she had given
him that morning, after the blank which he
had found in her, the incapacity to understand
him  could he believe still that his tumultuous
feelings now and all the ferment in his mind
would awaken in her that ideal sympathy and
understanding of which he had dreamed ?

Alas ! poor Walter ! he knew so little in reality
of her : what he knew was his own imagination
of her  a perfect thing, incapable of failure,
sure to sympathise and console. What he had
learned from the failure of the morning was only
this : that it must have been his fault, who had
not known how to explain  how to make his
story clear. It was not she who was to blame.
He rushed up the hill with his heart aflame,
thinking of everything. He was now no disinherited

knight, no neglected youth whose fate
his elders decided without consulting him. Oh,
no ; very different. He was the heir of Penton !
He had attained what he had looked for all his
life. He stood trembling upon the verge of a
new existence, full of the tumultuous projects,
the unformed resolves that surge upwards and
boil in the mind of a youth emancipated, whose
life has come to such promotion, whose career
lies all before him. And to what creature in
the world after himself could this be of the same
importance as to her who might  oh, wonderful
thought I share it with him ? He had been far
from having this thought in the morning. Then
he was but a boy, without any definite plan,
with only education before him and vague
beginnings, and no certainty of anything. Now
he was Walter Penton of Penton, with a position
which no man could take from him  not
his father even ! Nobody could touch him in
his rights. Not an acre could be alienated
without his consent; nothing could be taken
away.

And then there was that story about
VOL. II.

'providing for the boy' which his father had
touched on very lightly, but which came back
in the strongest sense to the mind of the boy
who was to be provided for. He felt the wildest
impatience to tell her all this. She would
understand him now. She did not know what
he meant in the morning, which was, no doubt,
his fault. How could she be expected to understand
the fantastic discontent that was in his
minds But she would understand now. He
had a certainty of this, which was beyond all
possibility of mistake, and though he knew that
it was very unlikely he should see her at this
hour, yet the impulse of his heart was such that
nothing else was possible to him but to hurry to
the spot where she was  to be near her, to put
himself in the way if perchance she should pass
by. The painful impression with which in the
morning he had seen her in a moment change
herself and her aspect, and step down from the
position on which she met him to that of Crock-ford's
niece, passed altogether from his mind 
or rather it remained as a keen stimulant forcing
him to a solution of the mystery which intertwined

the harmony with a discord as is the
wont of musicians. There could not be any
such waning note. He must account for the
jarring note ; it was a tone of enchantment the
more, a charm disguised.

These were the things he said to himself  or
rather he said nothing to himself, but such where
the gleams that flew across his mind like glimmers
of light out of the sky. He went quickly
up the steep hill, breasting it as if his fortune
lay at the top, and a moment's delay might risk
it all  until he came within sight of Rochford's
cottage, its upper windows twinkling over the
rugged bit of hedge that fenced off the little
grass-plot in front. Then his pace slackened
the goal was in sight ; there was no need for
haste  in short, even had she been visible,
Walter would have dallied, with that fantastic
instinct of the lover which prolongs by deferring
the moment of enjoyment. And then at a little
distance he could examine the windows, he
could watch for some sign or token of her, ashe
could not do near at hand.

He angered, he stood still on a pretence of



looking at the hedgerows, of examining a piece
of lichen on a tree, his eyes all the time furtively
turning towards that rude little temple of
his soul. What a place to be called by such a
name ! And yet the place was not so much to
be found fault with. The hedge was irregular
and broken, raised a little above the path, with
a rough little bit of wall all ferns and mosses,
supporting the bank of earth from which it
grew ; above it, glistening in the low red rays
of the afternoon sun, were the lattice windows
of the upper storey, with the eaves of an uneven
roof old tiles covered with every kind of
growth  overshadowing them ; a cottage as
unlike as possible to those dreadful dwellings
of the poor which are the result of sanitary
science and economy combined ; a little human
habitation harmonised by age and use with all
its surroundings, and which no one need be
ashamed to call home.

So Walter said to himself as he stood and
looked at it in the light of romance and the
afternoon sun. It was as venerable as Penton
itself, and had many features in common with

the great house. It was more respectable and
more lovely than the damp gentility of Pent on
Hook, which was old-new, with plaster peeling
off, and a shabby modernism in its vulgar walls.
Rochford's cottage pretended to nothing, it was
all it meant to be. It was in its way a beautiful
place, being so harmonised by nature, so
well adapted to its uses. Walter's estimate of
it increased as the moments went on. He felt
at last that to bring his bride from such an
abode was next door to bringing her from an
ideal palace of romance ; perhaps better even
than that, seeing that there would be all the
pleasure of setting her in the sphere which she
would adorn ; for would not she adorn  it was
an old-fashioned phrase, yet one that suited the
occasion  any sphere '

He was interrupted in these thoughts by the
sound of steps approaching. All was silent,
alas ! in the cottage. The door was shut, for it
was very cold weather, and no one appeared at
a window ; there was not a movement of life
about. Walter knew that the room in which
they lived (i.e., the kitchen) looked to the back.

The approaching passenger, therefore, did not
convey any hopes to his mind, but only annoyed
him, making him leave off that silent contemplation
of the shrine of his love, which he had
elaborately concealed by a pretended examination
of the lichens on the tree. If anyone was
coming, that pretence, he felt, was not enough,
and he accordingly continued his walk very
slowly up the hill in order to meet the newcomer,
whoever he might be.

When he came in sight, he was not, as Walter
had expected, a recognisable figure, but unmistakably
a stranger  a man whose dress and
appearance were as unlike as possible to anything
which belonged to the village. He was a
young man, rather undersized, in a coat with a
fur collar, a tall hat, a muffler of a bright colour,
a large cigar, and a stick of the newest fashion.
He was indeed all of the newest fashion, fit for
Bond Street, and much more like that locality
than a village street. Walter was not very
learned in Bond Street, but he laughed to himself
as he made this conclusion, feeling that

Bond Street would not acknowledge such a
glass of fashion.

The stranger was looking at Rochford's cottage
with a glass stuck in his eye, and a sort
of contemptuous examination, which proved
that he made a very different estimate of it
from that which Walter had just done. When
he in his turn heard Walter's step upon the
road, he seemed to wake up to the consciousness
of being looked at, in a way which aroused
the contempt of the young native. He gave
himself various little pulls together, took his
cigar from his mouth with an energetic puff,
put up his disengaged hand to his cravat with
an involuntary movement to arrange something,
and settled his shoulders into his coat  gestures
corresponding to the little shake and shuffle
with which some women prepare themselves to
be seen, however elaborate their toilette may
have been before. Then he quickened his steps
a little to meet Walter, who came towards him
very slowly, with a quite uncalled-for sentiment
of contempt. Why should a youth in knickerbockers,

in the rough roads of his native parish,
feel himself superior to a gentleman visitor in
the apparel of the higher orders, coming (presumably)
out of Bond Street ? Who can explain
this mystery? No doubt it was balanced by a
still stronger feeling of the same kind on the
other side. The stranger came forward evidently
with the intention of asking information. He
was a sandy-haired and rather florid young
man, with a badly-grown moustache and little
tufts of colourless beard. His hat was a little
on one side, and the hair upon which it was
poised glistened and shone. The level sun
came in his eyes and made him blink ; it threw
a light which was not flattering over all his
imperfections of colour and form.

Beg your pardon,' he said, with a slight
stammer as they approached each other, 'you
couldn't tell me, could you, where one 
Crichton or Croaker, or some such name, lives
about heveV

Croaker r said Walter. With Rochford's
cottage before his eyes, what could be more
simple ? The suggestion was too evident to be

mistaken, as was also the other suggestion,
which came like a flash of lightning, and made
his eyes shine with angry fire. ' I know nobody
of the name,' he said, quietly, making a rapid
step forward ; and then it occurred to him that
the information thus sought might be supplied
easily by an uninterested passer-by, and he
paused, feeling that it was necessary to plant
himself there on the defence. ' What sort of a
man do you want ? What is he V he asked.

Ah, no sort of man at all  it's  it's a cottage,
I believe. He may be a cobbler or a ploughboy,
or a  anything you please. Am I the sort
of person to know such people's trades ? It's a

it's a Look here, I'll make it worth your

while if you'll help me. It's a lady I want.'

'Oh, a lady!' said Walter.

He felt the blood flush to his face ; but this
the inquirer, occupied with his own business,
did not remark. He came close, turning ofi" the
smoke of his cigar with his hand.

Look here,' he said, in a loud whisper, ' I'll
make it worth your while. I'll be as good as a
SUV , well, I may say if you'll really find out

what I want, as good as a fiver in your pocket.
Oh, I say, what's the matter ? I don't mean no
harm.'

I wonder who you take me for V cried
Walter, whose sudden move forward had thrown
the other back in mingled astonishment and
alarm.

The stranger eyed him from head to foot with
a puzzled look, which finally awoke a little
amusement in Walter's angry soul.

Don't know you from Adam,' he said, ' and I
ain't used to fellows in knickerbockers. Swells
wear them, and gamekeepers wear them. If
you're a swell I beg your pardon, that's all I
can say.'

This prayer it pleased Walter graciously to
grant. He began to enter into the humour of
the situation. And then, to save her from some
vulgar persecutor, was not that worth a little
trouble ?

'Never mind,' he said, ' who I am. I know all
the ladies that live here. Which of them is it
that you want?'

Well, she don't live here,' said the other.

Yes, to be sure, she's here for the moment, with
one Croaker, or something Hke that. But she's
not one of the ladies of the place ; she's not,

perhaps, exactly what you call a Yes, she

is though  she's awfully well educated. She
talks oh, a great deal better than most of the
sweetest people you meet about. Vve met a
good few in my day,' he said, with an air,
caressing his moustache. * I don't know nobody
that comes up to her, for my part.'

He was a little beast  he was a cad  he was
a vulgar Httle beggar : he was not a gentleman,
nor anything like it. But still he seemed
to have a certain comprehension. Walter's
heart softened to him in spite of all provocations.

I don't think,' he said, but more gently than
he could have thought possible, * that you will
meet anyone of that sort here.'

'No? you don't think so. But they'd keep
her very close, don't you see. Fact is, she was
sent off to keep her out of a young sellar's way.
A young swell, you know, a  a friend of mine,
"with a good bit of money coming to him, and
his people didn't think her good enough. Ob, I

don't think so  not a bit. I'm all on the truelove
side. But where there's money, don't you
know, there's always difficulties made.'

I suppose so,' said Walter, with momentary
gravity. And there came before him for a
moment a horrible realisation  something he
had never thought of before. *But I don't
think,' he added, ' that you will find any such
lady here.'

He was so young and simple that it was a
certain ease to his conscience to put it in this
way. He said to himself that he was telling no
lie. He was not saying that there was no such
lady here, only that he did not think the other
would find her  which he should not, at least
so long as Walter could help it. This little
equivocation gave great comfort and ease to his
mind.

Don't you, though V said the stranger, discouraged.
* But I'm almost sure this was the
village, near the river, and not far from  it
answers to all the directions  if only I could
find Croaker  or Crichton, or a name like
that. I'm a dreadful fellow for muddling names.'

I'll tell you what,' said Walter, ' it may be
Endsleigh, about two miles further on ; that's
near the river, aud not far from Reading, which
I suppose is what you mean  a pretty little
village where people go in summer. And, to
be sure, there's some people named Croaker
there ; I remember the name  over a shop 
with lodgings to let  that's the place,' he cried,
with a little excitement. For all this was quite
true, and yet elaborately false in intention, a
combination to delight any such young deceiver.
Come along,' he cried, ' I'll show you the way.
It lies straight before you, and Croaker's is just
as you go into the village. You can't miss it.
I've earned that fiver,' he said, with a laugh,
but you're welcome to the information  for
love.'

For love I' cried the other ; and he gave the
young fellow a very doubtful look, then threw a
suspicious glance around as if he might possibly
find some reasons lying about on the road why
this young stranger should attempt to deceive
him. But, after all, why should a young swell
in knickerbockers desire to deceive the man of

Bond Street ? There could be no reason. He
took out his cigar-case, and offered a large and
solid article of that description for Walter's
acceptance, who took it with great gravity. ' I
can't thank you any way else  they're prime
ones, I can tell you,' he said, and with a flourish
of his stick, by way of farewell, took the way
pointed out to him.

Walter stood and watched him with a
curious mingling of satisfaction and mischief.
He threw the cigar into the ditch. It was
a bad one, he had no doubt, which, perhaps,
made it less a sacrifice to throw away this
reward of guile.

CHAPTER XII.

A DECISIVE MOMENT.

But, when this little adventure was over, it
made no difference to the longing and eagerness
in the boy's heart. Indeed, he wanted to
see her more than ever, to find out from her
who this fellow was, what he had to do with
her, why he was seeking her. Could it be
possible that she felt any interest in such a
creature? that she  might have married him,
perhaps. Could this be ? He had spoken as if
it was he who had been the prize. She had
been sent away in order not to be a danger for
him. Walter snapped the branch of a tree he
had seized hold of as if it had been a twig, as

the thought passed through his mind. And
then he was seized with a half-hysterical fit of
laughter. Him, that fellow ! that little beast !

that cad ! that There were no words that

could express his contempt and scorn and
merriment, but it was not merriment of a comfortable
kind.

When his laugh was over, he went round
and round the house without seeing anyone
all was closed, the doors shut, nobody at
the windows, nothing at all stirring. One or
two people passed, and looked wondering to see
him wander about, up and down like a ghost ;
but he neither saw her nor any trace of her.
The red glitter went out of the windows, the
sun sank lower and lower, and then went out,
leaving nothing but the winter grey which so
soon settled towards night. And by-and-by
Walter found himself compelled by the force of
circumstances to turn his back upon the cottage,
and go down the steep road again towards
home.

The force of circumstances at this particular
moment meant the family tea and the strange,

tragical, foolish complication of his own high
romance and enthusiasm of love, for which he
was ready to defy anything  and the youthfulness
and childishness of his position, which made
it criminal for him not to be in for tea  was one
of those things which confuse with ridicule all
that is most serious in the world. He saw it
with an acute pang how absurd it was ; but he
could not emancipate himself. The thought of
the family consternation, the question on all
sides, Adhere is Wat? his father's irritation, and
his mother's wonder, and the apologies of the
girls, and the suggestions of accident, of some
catastrophe, something terrible to account for
his non-appearance, were all quite visible and
apparent to him ; and the grotesque incompatibility
of these bonds, with the passionate indulgence
of his own 411 and wish upon which his
mind was fixed.

He saw all these circumstances also with a
cm-ious faculty, half of sympathy, half of repulsion,
through the eyes of the little visitor, the
little intruder, the girl who had suddenly become
a member of the household, and who was

VOL. II. P

there observing everything. She would remark
the unwillingness with which he appeared, and
she would remark, he felt certain, his absence
both before and after, and would ask herself
where he went, a question which, so far as
Walter was aware, not even his mother had
begun to ask as yet. He had an instinctive
conviction that Mab would ask it, that she would
see through him, that she would divine what
was in his heart. And when they all met about
the homely table once more,  the children intent
upon their bread-and-butter, the mother apportioning
all the cups of tea, the milk-and-water
to some, the portions of cake,  Walter seemed
to himself to be taking part in some scene of a
comedy curiously interposed between the acts
of an exciting drama.

A cold world, out of doors, spreading all
around, with the strangest encounters in it, with
understandings and misunderstandings which
made the blood run cold, and sent the heart up
bounding into high passion and excitement, into
feverish resolve and wild daring, and the madness
of desperation  and in the very midst a

sudden pause, the opening of a door, and then
the confused chatter of the children, the sound
of the teacups, the lamp which smelt of paraffin,
the bread-and-butter,  how laughable it was,
how ridiculous, what a contrast, what a slavery,
how petty in the midst of all the passions and
agitations that lay around !

Presently Walter, in his bosh ingenuousness,
began to feel a little proud that he, so
simple as he sat there in the fumes of the household
tea, was in reality a distracted yet well-nigh
triumphant lover, meaning to put his
fortune to the touch that very night, to pledge
his new life and all it might bring. They
thought him nothing more than a lad to be
sent to school again, to be guided at their will,
when he was a man and on the eve of an all-important
decision, about to dispose of his
existence.

He caught Mab's eyes as this thought swelled
in his mind. They were not penetrating or keen
eyes ; they were blue, very soft, smiling, childlike,
lit up with amused observation, noticing
everything. But Walter felt them go through

p2

him as none of the other accustomed familiar
eyes did. She saw there was something more
than usual about him. She would divine when
he disappeared that his going away meant something.
The family took no heed of his absence
he had gone out to take a turn, they would
say ; perhaps his father would grumble that he
ought to be at his books. But only that little
stranger would divine that Walter's absence
meant a great deal more  that it meant a
romance, a poem, a drama, and that it consumed
his entire life.

The dispersing of the children, the game of
play permitted to Horry and the small brothers,
the going to bed of the rest, made a moment of
tumult and agitation. And in the midst of this
Walter stole out unperceived into the clear air
of the night. It was clear as a crystal, the sky
shining, almost crackling with a sudden frost,
the stars twinkling out of their profound blue,
with such a sharp and icy brilliancy as occurs
only now and then in the hardest winter. The
air was so clear and exhilarating that Walter
did not find it cold ; indeed, he was too much

excited to be sensible of anything save the refreshment
and keen restorative pinch of that
nipping and eager atmosphere.

As he hurried up the hill the blood ran riot
in his veins, his heart seemed to bound and leap
forward as if it had an independent life. He
found himself under the hedge of Rochford's
cottage in a few minutes, with the feeling that
he had flown or floated there, though his panting
breath told of the rush he had actually-made.
The moon, which had but newly risen,
was behind the cottage, and consequently all
was black under the hedge, concealing him in
the profoundest darkness.

He was glad to pause there in that covert
and ante-chamber of nature to regain command
of himself, to get his breath and collect his
thoughts  to think how he was to make his
presence known. She had somehow divined
that he was there on other nights, lout this was
a more important occasion, and he felt that he
would be justified in defaming all the restrictions
put upon him, and letting even the Rochford,
the old people of the house, know that he was

there. It was true that the idea of old Crock-ford
daunted him a little. The old man had a
way of saying things ; he had a penetrating,
cynical look. But it would be strange indeed,
Walter reflected, if he who was not afraid of
fate, who was about to defy the world in arms,
should be afraid of an old stone-breaker on the
roads.

The thought passed through his mind, and
brought a smile to his face as he stood in the
dark, recovering his breath. All was perfectly
silent in the night around. The village had
shut itself up against the cold. There was nobody
near. The heat and passion in Walter's
being seemed to stand like an image of self-concentrated
humanity, independent of all the
influences about, indifferent, even antagonistic,
throbbing with a tremendous interest in the
midst of those petty personal concerns of which
the world thought nothing, but in himself a
world higher than nature, altogether distinct
from it. The little bit of shadow swallowed
him up, yet neither shadow nor light made any
difference to the mind which felt all moons and

stars and the whole system of the universe
inferior to its own burning purpose, and intense
tumultuous thoughts.

But while he stood there, indifferent to the
whole earth about him, a Httle sound of the
most trivial character suddenly caught his ear,
and made every nerve tingle. It was a sound
no more important than the cock of the latch
of the cottage door. Had she heard him, then,
though he was not aware of having made any
sound? Had she divined him with a mind so
much more sensitive than that of ordinary mankind
? He stood holding his breath, Hastening
for her step, imagining it to himself, the little
skim along the pavement, the touch when she
paused, firm yet so light. He heard it in his
thoughts, in anticipation ; but in reality that was
not what he heard. Something else sounded in
his ears which made his veins swell and his
heart bound, yet not with pleasure  a voice
which seemed to affront the stillness and offend
the night, a voice without any softness or grace
either of tone or words  something alive and
hostile to every feeling in his heart, and which

seemed to Walter's angry fancy to jar upon the
very air. And then there followed a sound of
steps ; they were coming to the gate. She was
with him, accompanying him, Seeing him off.
Was it possible ? Walter made a step forward
and clenched his fist ; he then changed his mind
and drew back.

Anyhow, you'll think it over,' said the voice
of the man whom he had met on the road.
It's a good offer. It ain't every day you'll get
as good. A good blow-out and a good breakfast,
and all that, would suit me just as well as
you. I ain't ashamed of what I'm doing ; and
you'd look stunning in a veil and all that. But
what's the good of making a fuss? It's fun,
too, doing a thing on the sly.'

And was it her voice that replied ?

 Yes, it's fun. I don't mind that, not a bit.
I should just like to see it put on the stage.
You and me coming in, and your mother's look.
Oh, her look ! that's what fetches me I'

It could not be her, not her! and yet the
voice was hers ; and the subdued peal of laughter
had in it a tone which he had felt to thrill

the air with delight on other occasions ; but not
now. The man laughed more harshly, more
loudly ; and then they appeared at the gate in
the moonlight. He so near them, unable to
stir without betraying himself, was insensible in
the gloom. But the light caught a great white
shawl in which she had muffled herself, and
made a sort of reflection in the tall shiny
hat.

They stood for a minute there, almost within
reach of his hand.

Don't you stand chattering,' she said; 'it's
time for your train ; and I tell you it's a mile
ofiF, and you'll have to run.'

There's plenty of time,' said he. * I should
just like to know who was that young spark
that sent me off" out of my way to-day. I believe
it's some one that's sweet upon you too,
and as you're holding in hand '

Nonsense,' she said, ' I see nobody here.'

Oh, tell that to  them that knows no better ;
see nobody: only every fellow about that's
worth looking at ; as if I didn't know your little
ways I'

She laughed a Kttle, not displeased ; and then
said,

There's nobody worth looking at ; but let me
again say, go ; the old man will be out after me.
He won't believe you've got a message from
mother ; he doesn't now. He doesn't believe a
word I say.'

'No more should I if I was in his place.
Oh, I know your little ways. You'll have to
give them over when we're married, Em. Ita
capital joke now, don't you know, but when
we're married '

We're not married yet,' she said, ' and
perhaps never will be, if you don't mind.'

Oh, I say ! Ashen we've just settled how
it's to be done, and all about it ! But look here,
don't you have anything to say to that young
'un in the knickerbockers. He's cute, whoever
he is. He might have put me off the scent
altogether. I couldn't have done it cleverer
myself. Don't let him guess what's going on.
He's just the one, that fellow is, to let the old
folks know, and spoil our fun.'

Look here,' said the gu-1, ' I warn you, Ned,
you'll lose you' train.'

Not I. I'll make a run for it. Good-bye,
Eml'

Great heavens I did he dare to touch her, to
approach his head with the shiny hat still poised
upon it to hers. The gi-grotesque hon-or overwhelmed
AValter as he stood trembling with rage
and misery. There was a little murmuring of
hushed words and laughter, and then a sudden
movement :

'Be off with you,' she said; and the man
rushed away through the gleams of the moonlight,
his steps echoing along the road.

She stood and looked after him, with her
white shawl wrapped round her head and
shoulders, moving from one foot to the other
with a light, buoyant movement as if to keep
herself warm. The motion, the poise of her
figure, the lingering, all seemed to speak of
pleasure.

Walter stood in the dark with his teeth set
and his hand clenched, and misery fierce and

cruel in his soul. It seemed impossible to him
to suffer more. He had touched the very
bottom of the deepest sea of wretchedness ; the
bitterness of death he thought had gone over
him, quenching his very soul and all his projects.
His love, his hopes, his wishes seemed
all to have melted into one flame of fury, fierce
rage, and hate, which shook his very being. It
seemed to Walter that he could almost have
murdered her where she stood within three
paces of him ; and if the veil of darkness had
been suddenly withdrawn the boldest might
have shuddered at the sight of that impersonation
of wrath, standing drawn back to keep himself
quiet, his hand clenched by his side, his
eyes blazing as they fixed upon her, within
reach of the unconscious watcher, so light and
pleased and easy, not knowing the danger that
was so near. Her head was turned away from
him watching her lover  her lover!  as he
rattled along the road ; and, when Walter made
a sudden step forward out of the shade, she
started with a suppressed alarmed cry and wail
of terror.

Mr. Penton I you here I'

Yes. I've been here  too long.'

Oh, Mr. Penton,' cried the girl, * you've
heard what we've been saying ! Do you call
that like a gentleman to listen to what people
are saying ? You have no right to make any
use of it. You did not put us on our guard.
You have no right to make any use of what you
heard when we didn't know.'

Walter came up to her, close to her, and
put his hand upon the fleecy whiteness of her
shawl, into which it seemed to sink as into
snow.

Will you tell me this f he said. * You are
one person to old Rochford, another to Mm,
another to me. lich is you V

A man who has been injured acquires an importance,
a gravity, which no other circumstances
can give him ; and the tone of his
misery was in Walter's voice. He imposed
upon her and subdued her in spite of herself.
She shank a little away from him and began
to cry.

It is not my fault ! I never asked you to

notice me. I never pretended I was anyone 
not your equal  not '

Which is yon V he said.

Through the soft shawl he reached her arm
at last, and grasped it firmly, yet with a weakening,
a softening. How could he help it when he
felt her in his power? Through her shawl, and
through the mist of rage and bitterness about
him, the quick-witted creature felt how the poor
boy's heart was touched, and began to melt at
the contact of her arm.

Which  is me ? Oh,' she cried, ' yon don't
know me  you don't know my circumstances,
or you would not ask. You don't know what I
come from, nor how I have been surrounded all
my life. It is the best that is me ! It is, whatever
you may think.'

Her arm quivered in his grasp ; her slight
figure seemed to vibrate so near to him. It appeared
to his confused brain that her whole
being swayed and wavered with the appeal he
made to her. She lifted her face to his, and
that too was quivering in every line. She was
entirely in his power, to be shaken, to be annihilated

at his will, and he had the power over her
of right as well as of strength.

The best  I don't know which is the best.
I came up to tell you  to ask you  to let you
decide. And I find you with a man who  is
going to marry you.'

'He thinks so, perhaps; but a man can't
marry one without one's own consent.'

Your consent ! You seemed to agree to
everything he said I' cried the young man, in
his rage. ' A fellow like that ! A cad  a 
And I waiting here  waiting to see you  oh I'
He flung her arm from him, almost throwing
her off her balance. But, when he saw her
totter, compunction seized the unhappy boy.
You make me a brute !' he cried ; ' I've hurt
you I' and felt as if, in the stillness of the night,
and the despair of his heart, his voice sounded
like a wild beast's cry.

You have hurt me  only in my heart,' she
said. ' Oh, but listen. I know it all looks bad
enough : but you listened to him, and you must
listen to me. You think he's not good enough
for me, Mr. Penton ; but a little while ago he

was thought far too good, and I  perhaps I
thought so too. Not  oh, not now. Wait a
minute before you cry out. Who had I ever
seen that was better? I had heard of other
kind of people in books, but either I thought
they didn't Hve now, or at least they were far,
far out of my reach. I never knew a gentleman

tilltill '

Her voice died away; it had been getting
lower, softer, complaining, pleading  now it
seemed to die away altogether, fluttering in her
throat.

Till ?' Walter's voice too was choked by
emotion and excitement. The strong current of
his thoughts and wishes, so violently interrupted,
found a new channel and flooded all the obstructions
away. Till  ! Could anything be
more pathetic than this confusion and self-revelation?
* You did not tell him so,' he said, with
a remnant of his wrath  a sort of rag of resentment,
which he caught at as it flew away.
You let him believe it was he ; you made him
understand '

Mr. Penton,' she cried, ' listen. What am I

to do? You've sought me out, you've been far
too kind : but I can't let myself be a danger to
you too. You know it never, never would be
allowed if it were known you were coming hereto
me. And, now that I've known you, how
can I bear living here and not seeing you 1 It
was the only charm, the only pleasure  Oh, I'm
shameless to tell you, but it's true.'

Emmy,' said the lad, in his infatuation, laying
once more his hand on her arm, but this
time trembling himself with feeling and tenderness,
'if it's true, how could you  how could
you let that man '

Mr. Penton, just hear me out. He can take
me away from this, and give me a home, and
take me out of the way of harming you. Oh,
don't you see how I am torn asunder I If I
throw him over, there's no hope for me. Oh,
what am I to do ? What am I to do V

Walter was moved beyond himself vith an
impulse of enthusiasm, of devotion, which seemed
to turn his feelings in a moment into something
sacred  not the indulgence of his own
will, but the most generous of inspirations. He

VOL. II. Q

put his arm round her, and supported her in her
trembling and weakness.

Emmy,' he said, his young voice ineffably
soft and full of tears  *Emmy darling, we'll
find a better wav.'

CHAPTER XIII.

THE FUNERAL DAY.

The day of Sir Walter Penton's funeral was a
great if gloomy holiday for the whole country
about. A man so old, and so little known to
the neighbourhood, could not be greatly mourned.
He had kept up, no doubt, the large
charities which it is the worthy privilege of a
great family to maintain for the benefit of the
country, but he had never appeared in them,
and few people associated a personal kindness
with the image of the stately old man who had
been seen so seldom for years past. The
people in the village and all the houses scattered
along the road were full of excitement and
curiosity.

q2

The carriages which kept arriving all the
morning gradually raised the interest of the
spectators towards the great climax of the
funeral procession, which it was expected would
be half-a-mile long, and embraced everybody
of any importance in the neighbourhood, besides
the long line of the tenantry. And then
the flowers that new evidence of sombre
vanity and extravagant fashion. To see these
alone was enough to draw a crowd. In the
heart of winter, just after Christmas, what masses
of snowy blossoms, piled up, crushing and spoiling
each other  flowers that cost as much as
would have fed a parish I The villagers stood
with open mouths of wonder. No one there in
all their experiences of life  all the weddings,
christening, summer festivals of their recollection
 had seen such a display. The procession,
headed by no black mournful hearse, such as
would have seemed natural to the lookers-on,
but by a sort of triumphal car, covered with
flowers, drew forth crowds all along the way.

The Pentons, who were now the lords of all
or rather of as little as was practicable, for all

that was unentailed naturally went without
question to Sir Walter's daughter  had not a
carriage of their otl in which to swell the procession.
And, though they were now naturally
in the chief place, they were perhaps the least
known of all the rural potentates, great and
small, who shook hands in silence, with looks of
sympathy more or less solemn, with Mr. Russell
Penton after the ceremony was over. Sir
Edward, indeed, the new baronet, had known
them all in his day ; but Walter looked on them
with a half-defiant shyness, with scarcely an
acquaintance in the multitude. And the sensation
was very strange to both father and son
when all the train had dispersed, and they came
back to the great house which was henceforward
theirs.

Mrs. Russell Penton had not, since the moment
of her father's death, made any show of
her grief. She had been entirely stricken down
on that day. A frightful combination and
mingling of emotions had prostrated her. Grief
for her father : ah, yes ! He had been perhaps
the one individual in the world upon whose full

comprehension she had leaned ; but in his dying
even this had failed her, and she felt that he
comprehended her and she him no longer, and
that at the last moment his steps had strayed
from hers. A more bitter and terrible discovery
could not be ; and when with that came the
sense that all her hopes had failed  that the
plans so nearly brought to some practical possibility
had all come to nothing  that everything
was too late  that, instead of securing her home
for an eternal possession, which was what her
eager spirit desired, she had only presented herself
to the world in the aspect of a grasping
woman, endeavouring to take advantage of a
poor man and seize his inheritance,  when all
this became apparent to her, Alicia covered her
face and withdrew from the light of day. The
loss of one who had been the chief object in her
life for so long, the father whom she had loved,
was not much more than a pretence (and she
felt this too to the bottom of her heart) for the
misery that overwhelmed her: which was not
grief only, but disappointment almost more
bitter than grief; disenchantment and failure

mingled with the sorrow and loss, and made
them more keen and poignant than words can
tell. And she was ashamed that it should be
so  ashamed that, when all around her gave
her credit for thus profoundly mourning her
father, she was mourning in him her own
disappointed hopes, her disgust, her failure,
as well as the loss her heart had sustained.
This consciousness was in itself one of the
bitterest parts of her burden. Her husband
came into the room with sympathetic looks, her
maid stole about on tiptoe, everything was kept
in darkness and quiet to soothe her grief. And
yet her grief was but a small part of what her
proud spirit was suffering. To feel that this
was so was almost more than she could bear.

After the first day she would indeed bear it
BO longer. She would permit no more of that
obsequious tenderness which is given to sorrow,
but got up and came forth to take her usual
place in the house and fulfil her ordinary duties,
refusing as much as she could the praises
lavished upon her for her self-control and unselfishness
and regard for others. She ' bore

up ' wonderfully, everybody said ; but Alicia, todo
her justice, would have none of the applause
which was murmured about her.

I did not expect my father would live forever,'
she said, with a tone of impatience to her
husband ; ' and to lie there and think everything
over again, is that to be desired? I would
rather feel I had some duty still and claims
upon me.'

Oh, many claims,' he said ; ' but you must
not overtask your strength.'

She had no fear of overtasking her strength,
but rather a feeling that if she could get to
Avork  as her maid did, as the housemaids did,
to prepare for her departure and the entry of
the other family  that would be the thing which
would do her good. After the funeral she came
out in her deep mourning, out of the library, in
which she had been spending that solemn hour,
to meet the chief mourners when they returned.
It would have pleased her better to have been
chief mourner herself: but it had been said
on all hands that it would be 'too much for
her.'

So she had spent the time, while the slow cortege
was winding along the country road and all the
gloomy formulas were being fulfilled, by herself
in the old man's favourite room, where everything
spoke of him, reading the funeral service
over and over, thinking  now they will be there,
and there ; now amved at the grave ; now leaving
him  beside the boys. It was that thought
that brought the tears. Beside the boys I They
had lain there for twenty years and more, but
she could still shed tears for them ; for all the
rest her eyes were diy. And when the carriages
came back she came out quite composed, though
so pale, in all the solemnity of her mourning,
covered with crape, to the drawing-room to
receive them. She had bidden her husband
to bring the new proprietor back with him,
that everything might at once be said which
remained to say. She gave her hand to Edward,
who came forward to meet her, he too in
deep mourning ; but her eye went beyond him
to 'the boy' who stood behind, and whose slight
young figure seemed to hold itself more erect,
and with an air of greater self-belief than when

she saw him last. What wonder ! he was the
heir.

I wanted to see you,' she said. ' Gerald will
have told you  that everything might be put
at once on the footing we wish it to be.'

I told you, Alicia, that your cousin would
not hurry you. He is as anxious as I am that
you should have no trouble. We have talked
it all over '

Why shouldn't I have trouble V she said.
There is no reason in the world for sparing
me my share of the roughness. I am better so.
Edward, if you should wish to get possession
soon, you and your wife, you may be sure I will
put no obstacles in your way.'

I wish you would believe that we have no
wish, no desire  We want you to act exactly
as may suit you best  to consider yourself still
in your own house.'

That is impossible,' she said, quickly ; ' mine
it is not, nor ever was ; and now that he is gone
who was its natural master  I know perfectly
well how considerate you will be. What 1 am
expressing is my own wish  not to be in your

way  not to put off your settling down. You
have a large family  you will want to settle
everything.'

At this Sir Edward began to clear his throat,
and it took him some time to get out the next
words.

Alicia,' he said, ' we have been thinking a
great deal about it, my wife and I.'

Yes, you must naturally have thought about
it. Mrs. Penton '  here the speaker paused,
grew red, hesitated a little, and then went on
' she must wish to have everything decided
about the removal, and to know what furniture
will be wanted, and a great deal besides. If
you would like to bring her to see for herself,
and judge what is necessary  I hope you understand
me  my husband and I will give every
facility.'

My dear, your cousin knows all that,' said
Russell Penton, not without impatience.

It was something else I wanted to say. My
wife  is a woman of great sense, Ahcia.'

Mrs. Russell Penton made a slight bow of
assent. She had nothing to do with his wife.

She did not like to hear of her at all, the woman
who was now Lady Penton, and yet was a
woman of no account, an insignificant mother
of a family. This description, which the person
to whom it belongs is generally somewhat proud
of, is often to women without that distinction a
contemptuous way of dismissing an individual
of whom nothing else can be said. Edward
Penton's wife Alas no more than that. Sense !
Oh, yes, she might have sense, so far as her
brood and its wants were concerned.

She always thought  an opinion which,
however, she did not express till very lately,
and in which T did not agree  that this house,
which you and my poor uncle kept up so splendidly
'

Alicia gave an impatient wave of her hand.
She could not see why Sir Walter should be
called poor because he was dead.

Yes,' said Sir Edward, ' it has been splendidly
kept up ; nothing could be more beautiful orin
better taste. You always had admirable
taste, Alicia : and my poor dear uncle '

Don't,' she cried ; * what is it you want to

say? I beg your pardon, Edward, if I am
impatient. For heaven's sake come to the
point.'

I know,' he said, with a compassionate look,
grief is irritable. My wife has always been of
opinion that for lis, with om* large family, the
possession of Penton would be no advantage.
We could not keep it up as it has been kept
up. The entailed estates by themselves are
not  you must have a little patience with me,
my dear Ahcia, or I never can get out what I
have to say.'

She seated herself with a sigh of endurance.
All this was intolerable to her. She wanted
nothing to be said, but simply that she should
go away, who no longer could keep possession,
and that they who had the right should come
in  no struggle about it, not a word said, not a
lament on her side, and if possible not a flourish
of trumpets on theirs  at least, not anything
that she should hear. It was like Edward to
maunder on, though he must have known that
she could not endure it. And his wife with her
sense ! But an appearance of dignity must be

kept up, and she must, she knew, hear out what
he had to say.

Go on,' said Russell Penton, ' you can understand
that she is not able for very much.'

And he came and stood by the back of his
wife's chair with his usual undemonstrative self-forgetfulness,
full of sympathy for her, though he
did not approve of her  all of which things she
knew.

It comes to this,' said Edward Penton, a little
confused in his story : ' I did not agree with
her at all. When we entered into the negotiations
 -which have come to nothing  T did it
without any heart. It was only on the morning
I spent here, you know, the morning that
it was only then I perceived that my wife
was right. We have talked it over since, Alicia,
and I have a proposal to make you. If you like
to remain '

She got up from her chair suddenly, clenching
her hands in impatience.

No, no, no, wo,' she cried, almost violently,
I want to hear nothing more about it. There
is nothing, nothing more to say.'

'If you would but hear me out, Alicia! this
that I'm speaking of would really be a favour tous.
We have not the means to keep it up. We
have things to think of, of far more importance
than the gardens and glass and all that. We
have our children to think of. The house is a
great deal to you  and  and it's something tome
that know it so well ; but to them  to them
it doesn't matter,' he said, with a sort of contempt
for the Pentons who were only half
Pentons though they were his children. *I
would rather a great deal you kept it and lived
in it, and remained as you have been.'

There was a curious little by-play going on
in the meantime. Walter listened to his father
with consternation, moving a step nearer, looking
on eagerly as if desiring to interfere in his own
person  while over the face of Russell Penton
there came a shade of anxiety, suspense, and
annoyance. He was sufficiently calm to put out
his hand keeping Walter back ; but he was no
longer a mere spectator of the interview. Alarm
was in his face ; he had thought he had escaped,
and here was the chain again ready to drag him

back. Sir Edward turned to him at the end of
his Httle speech with a direct appeal.

Speak to her. Russell ; I make the offer in a
friendly spirit. There's nothing behind,' he said.

That I am sure of : but it is for Alicia to
answer. She must decide, not me.'

I have decided,' said Mrs. Penton, with something
like suppressed passion. 'No: if it had
been mine, I should have been glad, why
should I deny it ? I was born here. I like it
better than any other place in the world. But
there are some things more important than even
the house in which one was born. Go back to
your wife, Edward, and tell her I daresay she
understands many things, but me she doesn't
understand. To owe my house to your civility
and hers, to hold it at your pleasure, no, no  a
thousand times. Perhaps you mean well  I
will say I am sure you mean well ; but I could
not do it. Gerald, there's been enough of this,
I should like to go away.'

Over Russell's face there shot a gleam of
satisfaction; but he did not let it appear in what
he said.

Alicia, you must uot be hasty. Your cousin
can mean nothing but kindness. Let me tell
him you will think of it. He does not want an
immediate answer. You might be sorry
after '

'Gerald! it is not a thing you have ever
wished.*

*No, 1 am Hke your cousin's -ife,' he said,
with a slight laugh. ' But what has that to do
with it ? It is for you to judge : and you might
repent '

She cast a glance round the stately room,
with all the beautiful furniture so carefully-chosen
to enhance and embellish it. Can one
help the hideous thoughts that against one's will
come into one's mind? Swift as lightning
there flashed before her a picture of what it
would be  the pictures gone, the rich carpets
in which the foot sank, the hangings of satin
and velvet  and the whole furnished as an
upholsterer would do it, called in in a hurry,
and, kept to the lowest possible estimate ; and
then the children of all ages, rampant, running
over everything. She saw this in her imagina-vol.

II, K

tion, and with it at the same instant felt a
shrinking of horror from the desecration, and a
horrible momentary exultation. Yes, exultation
! over the difference, over the contrast. It
was better so; the stateliness and splendour
must sink with her reign. With the others, her
supplanters, would come in squalor, pettiness,
all the unlovely details of poverty. It gave hera
sense almost of guilty pleasure that the contrast
should be so marked beyond all possibility
of mistake.

No,' she said, with forced composure. ' I
shall not repent. This chapter of life is over.
It has been long, far longer than is usually permitted
to a woman. I shall not interfere with
you, Edward ; it is your place, and you must
take it. Good-bye ; it was only to tell you
that no hindrance should be raised on my part
that as soon almost as you please  as soon as
it is possible '

There was something else, Alicia, you meant
to say.'

'What else Her eyes followed her husband's
to where Walter stood ; then a sudden

flush covered her pale face. ' Yes, that is true
sit is concerning your son. Mr. Rochford will
give you the papers, and my husband will explain.
My father had an idea, I cannot think
how it arose ; but he had an idea, and it is my
business to carry it out.'

'Then is this alls cried Edward Penton; for
bis part, he was not even curious as to what had
been done for Walter. He almost resented it
as she did. ' Is this all ? You will not allow
us to offer  you will not listen. After all, if I
am my poor uncle's successor I am still your
cousin, Alicia. It is not my fault.*

It is no one's fault,' she said.

And we all feel for you. Even were it a
sacrifice, we should be glad to make it. My
\'ife '

Mrs. Russell Penton rose hurriedly.

You are very kind,' she said. ' Good-bye,
Edward ; I have had a great deal to try me,
and I don't think I can bear any more.'

She hurried out of the room as the servant
came in with a message. She could not bear
to hear the new title, and yet how could she

r2

avoid hearing it ? Sir Edward  it was in her
ears all the time. And when her husband had
said in that cumbrous way, ' your cousin's wife,'
there had passed through her mind the ' Lady
Penton' which he would not say, which she
could not say, which seemed to choke her. Lady
Penton, her mother's name ! And it was all
perfectly just and right. This was what made
it so intolerable. They had a right to the
name. They had a right to the position. And
nothing could be more wretched, envious, miserable
than the exasperation in her soul.

CHAPTER XIV.

AFTERWARDS.

Everything was very quiet at the Hook on
the funeral day ; all the blinds were drawn
down, even those which could be seen only from
the garden and the river, and Mrs. Penton  nay,
Lady Penton, though she did not easily fall into
the title, and, indeed, until Sir "Walter was
buried scarcely felt it right to bear it  had
quite a little festival of mourning all to herself
with the girls, who had no inclination to gainsay
her. They knew nothing of the vagaries of
girls of the present epoch, and it never occurred
to them to go against anything she proposed or
to doubt its propriety, though if there was an
absurd side to it they saw that too later on, and

made their little criticisms, no doubt, with little
jokes to each other, not to be ventilated till long,
long after.

There is perhaps a natural liking in the
feminine heart for all those little exhibitions
of importance which the great crises of life
make natural. To stand in the privileged
position of those who are immersed in sorrow,
yet not to be immersed in sorrow ; to have
all the consequence which is derived from
fresh mourning and nearness to 'a death;*
yet to have the heart untouched, and no real
trouble in it  this is something which pleases,
which almost exhilarates in a sombre way. It
is so good to think that the death is not one
which touches us, that we are only lightly
moved by it, sitting in a voluntary gloom to
please ourselves and compliment the other,
not in the Valley of the Shadow of Death.

Lady Penton in her way enjoyed all this,
especially after her husband had gone. She
put on her mourning, and made the girls dress
themselves in the black frocks which had just
come home, and then sitting down in the midst

of them she too read the funeral service. It
was very soothing, she said  all the more that
she had so little real need of being soothed.
The girls were full of awe and acquiescence ;
the new thought that some one had died, though
it was only an old man, touched them, and the
idea of all his death would bring about increased
the subduing, half-compunctious sentiment.
It was not their fault that he had died, yet they
seemed somehow involved in it  almost to
blame.

Little Mab put on a black frock also, though
she had no intention of going into mourning,
and made one of the little audience to whom the
mother read the burial service. She was the
spectator amid the group who felt themselves
more immediately concerned, and it was all
very strange to her  almost droll, it must be
allowed. She was not wise enough to see how
far the sentiment was real and sprang out of
the confused emotions of this critical period,
and she was too sympathetic to pronounce that
it was all false, which to a little woman of the
world would have been the reasonable thing.

Lie did not, in fact, at all understand these
innocent people, though they were so easily
understood. Her education made her look for
motives in what they did; and they had no
motives, but acted on the simple instinct of
nature. Her keen little blue eyes, which were
so childlike and full of laughter, scintillated
with interest and the endeavour to understand.
It was all so strange to her, so novel  the large
family, the homely living, the community of
feeling, everybody moving together, which was
puzzling beyond description. She had seen so
much of the world in her wealthy orphanhood,
even though she was so young, that a sphere so
simple and action so single-minded were altogether
beyond her understanding. She kept
looking out for the secret, the rift within the
lute, the point at which this unanimity would
break up, but it did not appear.

She had been taught a great deal about
fortune-hunting, and the necessity of taking
care of herself, and she had heard those side-whispers
of society which cannot escape the
ears even of children  those insinuations of

evil underneath and selfishness always rampant.
She would not have been surprised had she
found that Ally and Anne had schemes of their
own, or their mother some deep-laid plan which
nobody suspected. And when she found out
that there was nothing* of the sort  so far, at
least, as her keen inspection could find out 
Mab was far more puzzled than if she had made
any number of discoveries.

There was but one particular in which she
felt that there might be an opening into the unknown,
and that was Walter  not, however, in
the way in which she had been prepared for
delinquency. He paid no attention to herself,
neither did any of the others make the faintest
effort to put them in each other's way. There
was certainly no fortune-hunting in the case.
But Mab felt that Walter's absences were not
for nothing. She was astonished in her premature
wisdom that no one took any note of
them or seemed to mind. Perhaps there was a
little pique in her soul. She had been interested
in Walter, but he had shown no interest in her.
She could not but think he would be much

better employed making himself agreeable to
the heiress whom fortune had thrown in his way
than in involving himself iu some clandestine
love-making, which she felt sm-e was the case
some entanglement probably in the village, to
which he seemed always to be going.

What could be more silly ? Mab had a strong
practical tendency, perhaps drawn from the
father who had made his own way so effectively.
She felt vexed with Walter for this throwing
away of his chances. Looking at the subject
with perfect impartiality, she could not but feel
that a young man coming into an encumbered
property  or, at least, what was just the same
as an encumbered property  to neglect the
fortune Which, for anything he knew, lay ready
to his hand, was a mingled weakness and
absurdity of the most obvious description. She
did not enter into the question whether she
herself would be disposed to assent or not.
That was her own business, and not his. But
that he should be so blind as not to try ! And
in the meantime she observed them all with
wonder, and looked at their grave faces when

they put themselves thus in sympathy with old
Sir Walter's burial with a little cynical disposition
to laugh, which it took her some trouble to
restrain.

It was amusing  it might even be said ridiculous
 when Lady Penton, the little ceremonial
being over and an hour or so of quiet having
elapsed, drew up all the binds again solemnly
with her own hands, going from window to
window.

They will have got back to Penton by this
time,' she said, in a tone perceptibly more
cheerful. ' You can tell Mary to take the
children out for their walk ; by this time it
will be all over. And the affairs of life must
go on, whatever happens,' she added, with a
little sigh.

The sigh was for the trouble over, the cheerfulness
for the life to come. They were both
quite simple and true. She herself took a little
walk afterwards, still with much gravity, round
the garden, in which Mab, in her character as a
philosophical observer, took pains to accompany
her.

But you never knew Sir Walter Pentou, did
you V she asked.

Yes, I knew him, but not well. We went
there a few times when we were newly married.
After the death of the sons they rather turned
against Edward. It was a pity, but I never
blamed them.'

Why should they have turned against him ?
It was not his fault.'

'My dear,' said the gentle woman, quietly,
'you are not old enough to understand.'

Mab looked at her with those keen little
eyes, which twinkled and sparkled with curiosity,
and which to the little girl's own apprehension
were able to look through and through all
those simple people. But even Mab was daunted
by this gentle and undoubting superiority of
experience.

Lady Penton resumed quietly, speaking more
to herself than to her companion :

I hope she will not feel it now  not too
much to listen. I hope she may not prove more
proud than ever.'

She shook her head as she went slowly along,

and Mab could not divine what she was thinking.
They went together to the bench under
the poplar-tree, where the weathercock which
was over the Pent on stables caught the red
gold of the westering sun, and blazed so that it
looked like a sun itself, stretching brazen rays
over the dark and leafless woods.

Do you think she could be happy living
annhere else ?' Lady Penton said at last.

She  who ? Do you mean Aunt Gerald ?
Oh, yes, to be sure, when she knows it isn't hers.
And my uncle hates it.'

Your uncle I' Lady Penton repeated. And
then she said, after a time, ' 1 don't think she
could be happy in any other house.'

But what was meant by this, or whether the
new mistress of Penton was glad that her predecessor
should suffer, or if these words were
said in sympathy, was what little ]\Iab could
not understand. She had to betake herself to
an investigation of the sentiments of the
others. It began a new chapter in her investigations
Avhen at last Sh' Edward and his son
appeared in their sables, both very grave and

preoccupied. The father went into the house
with his wife ; the son joined the youthful group
about the door. But no one could be more
unwilling to communicate than Walter proved
himself. He stood like a hound held in and
pulling at the leash  like a horse straining
against the curb. (' If you were to give him
his head, how he would go !' Mab said to herself.)
But he did not break loose as she
expected him to do. Impatient as he was, he
stood still, with now and then a glance at the
western sky. The sunset was a long time
accomplishing itself. Was that what he was so
impatient for ?

I suppose there was a wonderful crowd of
people, Wat V

Yes, there were a great many people.'

Everybody  that was anybody '

Everybody, whether they were anybody or
not.'

And were there a great many flowers ? And
did our wreath look nice ? Was it as big as the
others r

There were heaps of flowers ; ours didn't

show one way or another. How could you
expect it among such a lot V

But you were the chief mourners, Wat I'

Yes, we were the chief mourners. I wish you
wouldn't ask me so many questions. Just because
we were the chief mourners I saw next to
nothing.'

Did Cousin Alicia go V

How do you suppose she could go  to have
all those people staring V

But did you see her?  did you see anybody?
Did father say '

Oh, don't bother me Walter cried. ' Don't
you see I have enough to think of without
that !'

What has he to think of, I wonder V said
Mab to herself, gazing at him with her keen
eyes.

But the girls were silent, half-respectful of
the mysterious unknown things which he might
now have to think of, half subdued by the presence
of the looker-on, before whom they could
not let it be supposed that Wat was less than
perfect. And presently, after moving about a

little, saying scarcely anything, he disappeared
indoors. Was it to the book-room, to look over
his Greek ? or was it to steal out by the other
door and hurry once more to the village ? It
was there Mab felt sm-e that he always went.
To the village  meaning doubtless to some girl
there, of whose existence nobody knew.

Sir Edward took his wife indoors, solemnly
leading her by the hand, and when they got to
the book-room he put a chair for her solemnly.
Already his old breeding  too fine for the uses
of every day at the Hook  began to come back
to him.

I have not been successful,' he said. ' It
Avill not do.'

It will not do ? She won't take it from you,
Edward V

There is no reason why she shouldn't take it
from me ; but she will not hear of it. I have
done all I could, my dear. There is nothing
more possible. We can go in when we like ;
they will put no obstacles in our way.'

Go in when we like  and how are we to
furnish Penton V she cried.

'And keep it up,' he said, with a groan;
there are literally acres of glass  and to see the
gardeners going away in the evening it is like
a factory. But we cannot help it. I have done
my best. By-the-by, he added, in something
of bis old aggrieved tone, ' they have behaved
what I suppose will be called very handsomely
in another way. I told you my uncle's fancy
about Walter  they have given him ten thousand
pounds.'

What V she said, almost with a scream.

Walter  he took my uncle's fancy ; didn't I
tell you ? He is to have ten thousand pounds.
It's a good sum, but nothing to them ; they are
very rich ; what with all the savings of the
estate, and the money in the funds, and the lands
elsewhere that are out of the entail, Alicia's very
rich. They can afford it ; but all the same ita
nice sum.'

Ten thousand pounds,' she repeated to herself.
She had not remarked the rest . A sort
of consternation of pleasure overwhelmed her.
'It is very good of them, Edward  oh, very
good. Why, Walter will be independent. Ten

VOL. II. S

thousand pounds! Ob, dear me, what a good
that would have done us  how much we should
have thought of it ! Ten thousand pounds !
And what does he say V

Nothing, so far as I remarked. I was not
thinking of him,' said Sir Edward, with a little
impatience. He had so much to think of in
respect to the family at large and all the cares
of the new life, that he was a little annoyed to
have Walter thrust into the front at such a
moment. ' Of course it is a great thing for
him,' he said. 'It would have been a great
thing for us at this moment to have command
of a sum of money. My uncle might have
thought of that. He might have thought that
to change our style of living as we shall be
obliged to do, to set up an establishment on a
totally different scale, to alter everything, a little
ready money would have been a great help ;
whereas Walter has no use for it, no need of ita
boy of twenty. But there is no limit to the
fantastic notions of old men with money to
leave.'

'You forget,' said his wife, 'that old Sir

Walter intended everything to be different 
that he never meant ns to set up an establishment
or hive in Penton at all.'

*Ah, the question is, did he mean that 
wasn't it merely a plan of Alicia's ? Oh, no, I've
heard nothing more. But I can't help thinking
my uncle would really have preferred having a
family to continue the old name after him, instead
of letting it all run into the Russell family,
as 1 suppose it must have done. That reminds
me, I have a message for that little Russell girl.
Russell Penton will come for her or send for her
tomorrow. He made all sorts of pretty speeches
about our kindness in taking her in.'

'Dear me, it was not worth talking about.
It was Ally's idea. One little thing more in our
house  what does it matter ? She is a nice
little thing; she gives no trouble,' said Lady
Penton, to whom little Mab was of no importance
at all.

Sir Edward dismissed the subject with a wave
of his hand. It was of still less importance to
him than to his wife. He said,

They are going abroad, I believe, very soon.

s 2

Those people to whom money is no object
always fly abroad to get quit of every annoyance.
When shall you and I be able to run off,
Annie, for a rest ? Never, I fear.'

Well, Edward,' she said, quietly, ' if we
were able in one way we shouldn't be in
another. We couldn't leave the children, you
know. I shouldn't wonder if the Russell Pen-tons
would willingly change with us  their
money against our children. They have the
worst of it, after all : so much to leave and nobody
belonging to them to leave it to. So we
must not grumble.'

This view of the case did not appear to give
Sir Edward much comfort. He seated himself
at his table and drew his writing things towards
him. It was only to begin once more those
inevitable calculations which had a charm yet
did not make anything easier.

If you have got anything to do,' he said,
I'll not keep you any longer.' He added, as
she went towards the door, ' Don't make any
fuss about Walter. He ought to understand
that this makes no difference ;' and again, turning

round, calling her, ' Annie, clout forget to
tell the little Russell girl.'

She went out into the garden, where the
gals were still wandering about in the restlessness
of spent excitement. It did not occur to
her to keep back her news because of ' the little
Russell girl.' They all came round her, Mab
keeping behind a little, yet following the others.
The day was very mild, and Lady Penton had
a shawl round her shoulders, but no covering on
her head.

Your father is rather disappointed,' she said.
*Your Cousin Alicia will not accept what we
offered. I am sony, but we must just make up
our minds to it.'

'Make up our minds to Penton I' cried
Anne.

Oh, my dear, so far as that is concerned !
but you know how difficult it will be. However,
there is something else that wall please you
very much. You know old Sir Walter at the
last took a great fancy to our Wat, and wanted
to leave him something. Well, your Cousin
Alicia felt she ought to carry out her father's

wishes, and she has settled on him a fortune 
ten thousand pounds.'

Ten thousand pounds !' said the girls, in one
breath.

It makes him quite independent. It is a
great thing for him at his age ; I hope it will not
lead him into temptation. And it is very good
of your Cousin Alicia. She bad no need to doit
unless she pleased, for it was a fancy, a dying
fancy, which Sir Walter, perhaps, had he got
better, might not  We must always be grateful
to her, whatever else may happen. Few
people, though they might be very civil, would
show kindness to that extent.' Lady Penton
paused thoughtfully. Cousin Alicia had not
been on the whole very civil, and she felt as if
the thanks she was according were not enthusiastic
enough. 'It is a wonderful thing,'
she added, warming herself up, 'an absolute
gift of ten thousand pounds. I don't think I
ever heard of anything like it. It is a splendid
gift!'

'And Wat never said a word! I wonder,
mother, if he knows.'

Yes, he knows. I daresay he was overwhelmed
by it. He would not know what to
say. Where is he ? I should like to wish him

joy

know where he is. He has gone to the
village to tell her,' said little Mab to herself ; and
she looked the other way in case Lady Penton
might have read it in her eyes.

But Lady Penton, in her innocence, never
would have divined what those eyes meant.
And presently she carried the war, so to speak,
into the enemy's country by turning next to her
Visitor.

My dear,' she said, ' there is a message for
you too. Mr. Russell Penton is to send for you,
or perhaps come for you, to-moiTow.'

To-morrow I' cried Mab, taken by surprise.
While she was thus keeping back her
sheaf of imaginary arrows, here was one which
caught herself, as it were, in the very middle of
her shield. ' Oh !' she cried again, ' and must I
go?'

Now she had been no inconsiderable embarrassment
to the family at this crisis of its

affairs, but the moment she uttered this Httle
plaintive cry all their soft hearts turned to Mab
with a bound of tenderness and gratitude,
and great compunction for ever having found
her in their way. They did not know that part
of her reluctance to leave them was in consequence
of the investigations which she had
entered upon, and was by no means willing to
break off.

My dear,* said Lady Penton, ' we have been
so out of our ordinary while you have been with
us, that I am sure it is very, very sweet of you
to care to stay. And we should all like very
much to keep you a little longer. I hope Mr.
Russell Penton may come for you himself tomorrow,
and then perhaps he will consent to let
you stay.'

CHAPTER XV.

A VISIT.

These communications were interrupted by the
sound of carriage-wheels so near that it was
not possible to escape the certainty that visitors
were approaching. Lady Penton paused for a
moment, discussing with herself Whether she
should say ' Not at home ;' the day of the
funeral was very early to receive visitors ; but
then she reflected that they had all got their
mourning  even Martha having her black gown
and that there was therefore no reason why
she should not receive, though ' they,' Whoever
they were, would have shown better taste had
they postponed their visit. However, in this
afternoon of excitement and desceuvrement it

was almost a relief to see somebody who was
not concerned, and might consequently impart
something new  a little change into the atmosphere.
The carriage which came wheeling
round past the drawing-room windows was new
and glistening, and highly effective, much more
so than is usually to be met with in the country
: and out of it came two ladies, as carefully
got-up as their vehicle, wrapped in furs and
plush. That peeps were taken at them from
the corner where a judicious observer could see
without being seen it is almost unnecessary to
say.

No, I don't know them,' said Anne, shaking
her head. ' It is none of the Bannister people,
nor the Milton, nor the Durham, nor anybody
I ever saw. They must be from the other side,
or else they are Reading people, or '

*We know no Reading people,' said Lady
Penton, with a tone  well, perhaps it was not
pride : but certainly it was a tone which would
not have come naturally to Mrs. Penton of the
Hook one short week before.

The footman is opening the door  he has

such a delightful fur-cape on I They're coming
in. Ally, look, look ! Did you ever see them
before?'

Ally had held back, not liking to show her
curiosity before little Mab, that critic and investigator
whom she began instinctively to divine.
But she made a little soft movement forward
now. And when she saw the ladies stepping
out of the carriage Ally gave vent to a stifled
cry, ' Oh !' which showed she was not so ignorant
as ]her sister. Lady Penton turned towards
her for explanation, but it was already too late.
The door was thrown open by Martha with more
demonstration than when she was only parlour-maid
to Mrs. Penton. The shadow of a title
upon her head changed even Martha. She announced
* Mrs. Rochford, my lady I' in a voice
such as no one in the Hook had ever heard
before.

Mrs. Rochford V said Lady Penton, with a
wondering question in her voice, looking at Ally,
who seemed to know.

It was not in her nature to be otherwise than
polite. She stepped forward and accepted the

visitor's outstretched hand, and gave her a seat,
but without any of the tremulous shyness of
former days. She had taken up the role of
great hide with less difficulty than could have
been anticipated. Mrs. Rochford was large and
ample in her furs. She would have made three
of Lady Penton : and the muff in which one of
her hands was folded was worth more than all
that the other lady had to wear. Nevertheless,
Lady Penton, simple as she sat there, felt herself
so entirely Mrs. Rochford's social superior
that this outside splendour of appearance was
altogether neutralised. Perhaps the visitor was
a little confused by this, for she made another
step beyond the mistress of the house and seized
upon Ally with both her hands out and a great
deal of enthusiasm.

Dear Miss Penton, how are you after all
this agitation V she said, in the most sympathetic
tone, and looked as if she would have
kissed Ally, who blushed crimson, and evidently
did not know how to respond ; and then it was
the turn of Miss Rochford, who was effusive and
sympathetic too.

The dear child,' said Mrs. Rochford, seating
herself, * looked a little lost at Penton at the
ball. She had never been out before, I am
sure, without you. Lady Penton  which makes
such a difference to a sensitive girl. 1 quite
took it upon me to be her chaperon. And then
I think she enjoyed herself.'

Oh I' said Lady Penton, with a blank look ;
and then she added, ' So much has happened
since that I have heard nothing about the ball.'

*Yes, indeed,' said the other, in the most
sympathetic tone. ' Such wonderful changes
in so short a time I and just when we were all
thinking that poor dear Sir Walter might live to
be a hundred.' Then she remembered that this
was not an event which the Pentons at the
Hook would naturally have found desirable.
But 1 always say,' added the lady, ' that it
is such a comfort when an old gentleman
of that age goes out of life in tolerable comfort
\\dthout suffering. Sometimes they have
so much to go through. It seems so mysterious.'


Meanwhile, Miss Rochford, a pretty but much-curled

and frizzed girl of the period, seized
upon Ally.

Oh, I've wanted so much to come and see
you. Mamma said we oughtn't to, that you
were much greater people now. But you were
so nice at the ball, and looked so pleased to be
with us, I felt sure you wouldn't mind. Wasn't
it a delightful ball ? But you who were in the
house must have felt all that dreadful business
about old Sir Walter dying. It was very
dreadful, of course : but what a good thing he
waited till the ball was over. Had it happened
only a little sooner, there would have been no
ball. Is that your sister ? are they both your
sisters? Oh!'

This exclamation followed when Mab turned
round and revealed to the visitor the features
of the heiress who had been pointed out to
everybody at the Cannonball.

This is my sister Anne, but she wasn't at Pen-ton.
And this is Miss Russell,' said Ally, who did
not know much about the formulas of introduction,
and who was considerably startled by the
Recollection that the Rochford had been her protectors

at PentoD, which even she, simple as she
was, felt to be inappropriate now. 3Iab made
the new comer a very dignified Httle bow. She
knew everything of this kind much better than
the others did, and knew very well who the
Rochford were.

'My son has told me so often about your
charming family and how Ind you were to him :
and after meeting Miss Penton, as there seemed
then a sort of double connection, I thought I
might take it upon me to call.'

Oh, you are very kind, ' Lady Penton
said.

'My son does nothing but talk of Penton
Hook. He is so charmed with everything here.
And he is not easily pleased. He is a great
favourite in the county, don't you know ? He
is invited everywhere. I told him at his age
it is enough to turn his head altogether. But
he is very true ; he is not led away by finery
I find that he always prefers what is really
best.'

Yes,' said Lady Penton : ' we saw Mr.
Rochford several times. He used to come

about the business which unfortunately was not
completed.'

'Do you say unfortunately? He supposed
you would rather be pleased.'

I am not at all pleased,' said Lady Penton,
drawing back into the stronghold of her dignity,
It is always a pity when family arrangements
cannot be carried out.'

I am sure,' said Mrs. Rochford, in her most
ingratiating tones, ' the county will like far
better to see you there than Mrs. Russell Penton.
Not that there is anything disagreeable in Mrs.
Russell Penton. She is everything that is nice :
but it is always more or less a false position,
don't you think ? and, on the other hand, a
young family is, always cheerful and popular.'

I don't know how that may be. We are
really more a nursery party than anything
else.'

Oh, don't say so. Lady Penton ! with those
two charming girls.'

The mother's eye followed the wave of the
visitor's hand, and she could not but feel that
there was truth in this. She had not thought

of Ally and Anne from this point of view.
They were not beauties, she was aware. Still,
looking at them as they were now, a thrill of
that satisfaction and complacency which is at
once the most entirely unselfish and the most
egotistical of sentiments warmed her bosom.
She felt, contrasting them with the somewhat
artificial neatness of the Rochford young lady,
and the bluntness of little Mab on the other hand,
that they might very well be called charming
girls. She had rarely had creatures of the same
species to compare them with.

They are very young,' she said, ' and we
have had little opportunity to do anything for
them ; they are not at. all acquainted with the
world.'

And that is such a charm, I always think !
When my son brought Miss Penton to us the
other night she had that look of wanting her
mother which is so sweet. Mrs. Penton of
course had all her guests to look to, and the
anxiety about her father. I was so happy to take
your dear girl under my motherly wing. It is
broad enough,' said Mrs. Rochford, raising a

VOL. II. T

little the arm which was clothed in sealskin and
beaver, or in something else more costly than
these, if there is anything more costly, and
which indeed had an air of softness and warmth
which was pleasant. She was what is called a
motherly woman, large and caressing, and
really kind. She might perhaps have found
the courage to keep a poor girl at ' a proper distance
' had her son been in danger, but otherwise
in all probability would have been kind to
Ally even had she not been Miss Penton of
Penton. And in that case would have taken no
credit for it, such as in the present she felt it
expedient to insist upon.

You will be going nowhere in your mourning,'
said Miss Rochford to Ally, ' it will be so
dull for you just at this time of the year. I do
so wish you would come to us a little. We
don't give parties, not often ; but there is always
something going on. Mamma is very good, she
never minds the trouble. And Charley is the
very best of brothers, he is always trying to
keep us amused. Now if you would come
there's nothing he wouldn't do. We could give

YOU a inouut if you hunt. My sister doesn't
ride. I should be so happy to have another girl
to go out with me. Oh, do come. And if the
frost holds there will be skating. You \vill
have to be quiet, of course, at home for the sake
of your mourning, but with us you needn't
mind. Oh, do ! It would be so delightful to
have you. Charley was very despondent about
it. He thought you would be so much too
grand for us, who are only Reading people, but
I said I was sure you were not one to forget old
friends.'

Too grand !' cried Ally, turning red. ' Oh,
no, no.

It was not surely that she was too grand.
Still there was something a sentiment of repugnance,
a drawing back  which, if it was
that, was the meanest sentiment, she thought, in
the world.

Xo, I am sure not,' said Miss Ethel Rochford.
' I knew you were not one to throw over
old friends.'

Were they old friends ? She was very much
puzzled by this question. It seemed so 

2

gracious to make any exception to a claim made
with such kindness and enthusiasm. But Ally
did not know what answer to make when the
ladies at length had rustled away back to their
carriage, still very caressing and cordial, but
somewhat disappointed, since Lady Penton,
with a firmness not at all in keeping with her
character, had declined the invitation to Ally.

'Are you such great friends with these
people T asked Anne, before the sealskin had
quite swept out of the door ; and, ' Were you
so much with them at the ball V said Lady
Penton, sitting down, and turning her mild
eyes upon her daughter with great seriousness.
Poor Ally felt as if she were a culprit at
the bar.

They were very kind,' she said, with a look
of great humility at her mother. ' I never saw
them except that one time ; but they were very
kind.'

You have never told me anything about the
ball, there have been so many other things to
think of. I ought to have remembered, my poor
little Ally, you would be very forlorn without

me or some one: but then I thought yom-cousin

Ahcia Didn't you have any dancing,

then '? Didn't you enjoy yourself at all V

She danced all the evening,' said Mab ; ' I
saw her. I never could get near her to say a
word.'

'Then what does this lady mean?' the mother
said.

Poor Ally was very nearly crying with distress
and shame, though there was nothing to be
ashamed about. Oh, yes ! there was cause for
shame, and she felt it. She had been thankful
for Mrs. Rochford's notice. She had been
thankful to meet him, to feel herself at once
transformed from the neglected Httle poor relation,
whom no one noticed, to the admired and
petted Httle heroine of the other set, who were
not the great people, and yet looked just as well
as the great people, and danced as well, and
were as well dressed, and so much more kind.
And now she felt ashamed of it all  of them
and him, and all the people who had made the
evening so pleasant. She did not Hke to tell
her story  how she had been neglected, and

how she had been admired, and the comfort
the Rochford set had been to her, and now that
she was ashamed of them all  for that was the
conclusion which she could not disguise from
herself.

Now that she was Sir Edward Penton's
daughter, now that she herself was to be the
first at Pent on, she was ashamed to have
known nobody but the Rochford, and she was
ashamed of being ashamed. The family solicitor,
that was all  a sort of official person, whose
duty it was to take a little notice of her, not tolet
her feel herself neglected, whom she had
been so glad to cling to. And now ! There
was no word of contempt that Ally did not heap
upon herself. She was not sure if girls were
ever called ' snobs,' but this she was sure of,
that if so, then a snob was what she was.

Mother, they're both true,' she said. ' It
was oh, dreadful at first ! 1 didn't know anyone.
I knew some of them by sight, but that
was all. And nobody spoke to me. I should
have liked to go through the floor or run away,
but I hadn't the courage. And then I saw him

I mean Mr. Rochford, you know, who has
been so often here. And he asked me to dance ;
and, when he saw I had no one to go to, took me
to his mother. And they were so kind : and I
enjoyed myself very much after that. But  '
said Ally, and stopped short.

Oh, odious little traitor that she was ! But
she could not say what was in her heart besides,
which was  oh, humble snobbishness, miserableness,
unworthiness !  that she never wished
to see these good Samaritans any more.

When 1 return her call, I must thank her for
being so kind to you,' said Lady Penton, with a
cloudy countenance.

And this was all she said. Nor was there any
further conversation on the subject  none, at
least, which Mab heard. She had her own
theory on the subject, and formed her little history
at once, which was founded on Ally's faint
little emphasis, ' I saw 1dm J

Him ' Mab decided to be a lover, whom,
now that the Pentons had risen in the world, the
family would no longer permit to be spoken of,
but whom Ally favoured in secret, and to whom

she had given her heart. It was a mistake
which was very natural  the most usual thing
in the world. Mab decided that it was a great
blunder for the mother and sisters to interfere.
What could they do ? except to put the other
party on their guard.

Our comprehension are limited by our experiences.
To understand the state of mind in
which x\lly was  the repugnance she felt towards
the people whom she had liked so much,
and who had been so kind to her, and
her disgust at herself for that other disgust
which she could not conquer  was what no one
at Penton Hook was the least able to do.

CHAPTER XVI.

WALTER, AND HIS FATE.

Walter had darted off to the village as Mab
divined; but what was the good? He might
get himself talked of, wandering about Crock-ford's
cottage ; but there was no one there who
would compromise herself for him. He had to
go home again for the evening meal as before,
but this time with more impatience than before,
with a stronger sense that the bondage was insupportable.
Walter would have been furiously
indignant had it been said to him that the fact
of having or not having money of his own would
change his deportment towards his family ; but
j-et it was the case, notwithstanding all he could

have said. He felt himself a different being
from the docile boy who had to do what was
decided for him, to go to Oxford or wherever
his father pleased. This morning, no further
back, that had been all he thought of. There
was nothing else possible  to do what was told
him  what was arranged and settled for him 
what father and mother after one of their consultations
had decided was the best.

Walter Avould no more have thought of resisting
that decision at twenty than Horry would
at nine. But a day brings so many changes
with it. He was not now what he had been
when he passed the cottage with his father on
his ways to Sir Walter's funeral. Now he was
no longer dependent ; he could stand by himself.
It seemed absurd to him that he should have to
be punctual to an hour, that he should be bound
by all the customs of the house. Already he
had felt the absurdity of going home  home from
his romance, from his drama, from love and
devotion on a heroic scale  to tea ! Now he
had gone a little further even than this. He
was independent, he had a fortune of his own,

no need to depend upon his father for everything
as he had been doing. And he had come to an
age and to circumstances which not only justified,
but made it necessary that he should act
for himself. Nevertheless, he was not even now
prepared to break the bond of the old habits.
He went back as before for the family meal,
then, escaping, once more hurried through the
night to the scene which was ever in his
thoughts.

The moon was later of living, the night was
not so clear and frosty as on that other evening
when he had surprised her T-ith the other lover,
the man-who had roused such fury in his breast.
Since then they had met every evening, and
Walter no longer feared that vulgar rival. They
had no secrets from each other now. She had
told him everything, or so he thought, about
that other : how he had persecuted her to marry
him, notwithstanding the opposition of his
parents, who were very rich, and did not think
her good enough  how she had come here to be
out of his reach  and how she feared, now that
he had discovered her hiding-place, he would

give her no peace. She had confessed frankly
that before she met Walter she had not ' minded '
the other. He was well off, he could give her a
home ; and if she had not met Walter she might
have been happy enough ; but now, never.

The boy's heart was penetrated by this sweet
confession ; his boyish love sprang up all at once
into a chivalrous and generous passion. He had
talked to her vaguely, splendidly, of what they
could do. If, as seemed inevitable, his studies
must be accomplished, why then they must be
married at once, casting prudence to the winds,
and he must find a little nook at Oxford, where
they could live like babes in the wood  like
Rosamond in her bower. Yes, that was it  like
Rosamond, with a flowery labyrinth all round
her cottage, from whence he should come every
morning with his books, and return when his
work was over to love and happiness. The
picture had been beautiful, but vague, and she
had listened and laughed a little, now and then
putting a practical question which confused but
did not daunt the young man. How were they
to Hve ? What was enough for one, would not

that be enough for two, he asked ? and he cared
for nothing', no pleasure, no luxury, but her sweet
company. She let him talk, and perhaps enjoyed
it ; at least it amused her : it was like a
fairy-tale.

But to-night  to-night ! there were other
things to say. The foolish boy caught her arm
and drew it within his as soon as she appeared.

'Are you warm, are you comfortable?' he
whispered. ' I have so much to tell you ; everything
is changed. You must not hung in again
in a moment, there is so much to say.'

What is changed ? If you have tired of
your romancing that would be the best thing,*
she said.

I shall never tire of my romancing. It is all
coming light ; everything is clearing up. It
will be almost too easy. The course of true love
this time will be quite smooth.'

Ah, that's what I like,' she cried, * but how is
it to be ? You don't mean to say that your father
and mother  they would never be such fools  *

Fools !' he cried, pressing her arm to his side ;
they're not fools, but they know nothing about

it; it is something something that has happened
to me.'

I am glad,' she said, composedly, ' that you
have not told them ; it would be a wild thing
to do. And I know what young men's parents
are, they will sometimes pretend to consent to
set you against it  they think that if there is no
opposition it will die away of itself.'

It will never die away,' he said, ' opposition
or no opposition ; but, Emmy, it isn't a penniless
fellow that you're going to marry. We shan't
have to live on my little bit of allowance  I've
got  money of my own.'

She gave a little suppressed scream of
pleasure.

Money of your own !'

Yes : that has nothing to do with my father,
that nobody can interfere with. It comes from
my old relative, old Sh* Walter. He has left me
ten thousand pounds.'

Ten thousand pounds !' she repeated, with a
quickly-drawn breath, then paused a little ;
 that is a very nice sum of money. I am very

glad you've got all that. How much will it
bring in by the year V

He was a little checked in his enthusiasm by
this enquiry; and, to tell the truth, it was not a
question he had considered or knew very well
how to answer.

'You might get five hundred a year for it if
you were very, very lucky ; but I don't think,' she
said, ' you vill get so much as that.'

'At all events,' he said, somewhat sobered,
it will be my own ; it will be something I can
spend as I please, and with which nobody will
have any right to interfere. We could have
existed perhaps on my allowance ; but it would
have been hard upon my darling cooping her up
in a small cottage, with scarcely money enough
to live upon '

He thought perhaps she would interrupt him
here, and cry out, as he himself would have done,
what did that matter, so long as they were
together ? But she did not do this. She was
quite silent, waiting for him to go on.

But now,' he continued, ' it will be different.

We can enjoy ourselves a little. I don't suppose
we shall be rich even now.'

'No,' she said, quietly, 'you will not be rich.'

He turned and looked into her face, but in the
darkness he could see nothing. And then he
was used to these little prudential ways she had,
and the superior knowledge which she claimed
of the world.

'Perhaps not rich, but well off, don't you
think?' he said, with a little timidity, 'to begin
upon : and then there would be Penton in the
distance. Penton is a noble place. All the
time of the ball I was thinking of you, how you
would have liked it, and how much more beautiful
it would have been had you been there. We
must give a ball some time, when we come
home  '

You mean,' she said, for he made a pause,
when you succeed; but your father is not an
old man, and that may be a long, long time.'

I hope so,' said Walter, fervently ; ' loving
you makes me love everybody else better. I
hope it may be a long, long time.'

Again she made no remark  which she might

have done, perhaps saying she hoped so too ;
but no doubt she thought it unnecessary to say
what was so certain and evident.

But,' he cried, pressing her arm again closer
to his side, ' I didn't mean anything so lugubrious,
I meant when I brought you home. That will
be a triumph, daring ! They will put up arches
for us, and come out to meet us. It shall be a
summer evening, not cold Uke this. We shall
have a pair of white horses fit for a bride,
though you will be a little more than a bride
by that time, Emmy ? '

Shall I T she said, with a tone of mockery in
her laugh.

Why, of course,' he cried, bending over her,
since it is winter now I You don't suppose it
is to be put off so long. Why, you say yourself
you are a Will-o'-the-wisp. You would have disappeared
by that time if I left you to yom-self.'

That's true enough,' she said, with another
soft suppressed laugh, which made him turn and
look at her again, for there seemed a meaning
in it more than met the ear.

Don't laugh so,' he said, softly. * It sounds

VOL. II. U

as if you would like to wring my heart, only for
the fun of it ; but it would be no fun to me.'

Did I V said she. * No, it is you who are
making fun.'

It is not a thing to laugh about,' cried the
boy. ' It is tremendous beautiful earnest to me.
But I was talking of the coming home. My
people would never say a word when they knew
it was done, Emmy, and that you and I were
one. They might object perhaps before, not
knowing you. I am not even sure of that when
they knew how I cared for you. Father might :
but mother would be on my side.'

No,' she said, ' don't tell me that ; I am sure
they are not so silly, your mother above all.'

Do you call that silly ? Well, I think she is
silly then, dear old mother I' cried the young
man, with his voice a little unsteady.

Walter felt to the bottom of his heart what
he had said to his unresponsive companion, that
in loving her he loved them all so much better.
The faculty of loving seemed to have expanded
in him. He had not an unkind feeling to anyone
in the world, except perhaps to that fellow

no, not even to him, poor beggar, who was
losing her. To lose her was such a misfortune
as made even that cad an object of pity to gods
and men.

And how is all this to come about V she said,
after a pause. ' It's easy talking about what's
to happen in summer, and coming home to
Penton, and all that sort of thing  but in the
meantime there are a few things to be done.
How is it all to come about?'

Our marriage V he said.

Well, yes, I suppose that's the first step,' she
answered.

'That is the easiest thing in the world,' said
Wat. ' I shall go to town and arrange all the
preliminaries. Why, what did you tell me that
fellow wanted to do ? Do you think I'm less
fit to manage it than he is ?'

Well,' she said, ' for one thing, he's older than
you are ; he has more freedom than you have.
He knows his way about the world. Will they
let you go to London by yourself, for one thing V
she asked, with again that mocking sound in her
voice.

u2

Walter caught her arm to his side with a kind
of fond fury, and cried * Emmy !' in an indignant
voice.

I shouldn't if I were your people,' she continued,
with a laugh ; ' I should feel sure you
would be up to some mischief. But, supposing
you get off from them, and get to London, what
will you do then V

1 shall do  whatever is the right thing
to do. I am not so foolish as you think me.
There is a licence to be got, I know  a special
licence.'

Oh,' she cried, 'but that costs money ! You
will want money.'

Of course I shall want money,' said Walter,
with a certain dignity, though his heart grew
cold at the thought. 'You have not much
confidence in me, Emmy ; but 1 am not so
ignorant as you think.'

There was something like a tone of indignation
this time in his voice, and she pressed his
arm with her hand.

I am sure you have the courage for anything,'
she said.

Courage ! Well, that is not precisely the
quality that is needed.' He thought it was his
turn to laugh now. ' I am not afraid.'

I know you are not afraid of fighting
or  anything of that kind. But to walk into
an office, and face a man who is grinning
at you all the time, and ask for a marriage
licence '

Well,' he said, ' I am capable of that.'
*Andofallthe questions that will be asked

you ? You will have to answer a great many
questions  all about me, which you don't know,
and all about yourself.'

I know that, I hope. And I shall know the
other, for you will tell me.'

'And first of all  goodness!' she cried, suddenly,
pushing him slightly away from her,
gazing at him in the darkness ; ' a thing I never
thought of  are you of age V

Of age !'

He stood facing her, motionless. He had put
out his hand to take hers again, to draw it
through his arm once more. But this question
startled him, and his hand dropped by his side.

Each stood a dark shadow to the other in the
dark, staring into each other's face, seeing
nothing ; and Walter's heart gave a jump that
seemed to take it out of his breast.

Yes, of age. Oh, you fool ! oh, you pretender !
oh, you boy trying to be a man ! You have
known it all along, but you have not told me.
You are not of age !'

No,' said the poor boy, humbly. For the
first moment he felt no sensation of anger or
disappointment, but only the consternation of
one who feels the very sky thundering down
upon his head, the pillars of the earth falling.
< Fool !' did she call him  ' pretender !' What
did she mean by fool % What did she mean by
that tone of sudden indignation  almost fury ?
He felt beaten down by the sudden storm.
Then the instinct of self-defence woke in
him. ' What have I done V he said. ' I have
concealed nothing from you. No, I am not
of age  not till October. What has that to do
with it?  age cannot be counted by mere
years.'

It is, though, ia Doctors' Commons,' she said,
with a mocking laugh. ' We might have saved
ourselves a great deal of trouble and talking
nonsense if you had said so at once. Didn't
I tell you you were too young to know what
was wanted? Do you think they will give
any kind of licence to a boy who is underage?'


I am not a boy,' said Walter, feeling as if
she had struck him upon the naked heart, which
was throbbing so wildly. ' Perhaps I might be
before I knew you, but not now, not now ! And
do you mean to tell me that for a mere punctilio
like that '

Well, it is a punctilio,' she said, taking his
arm suddenly again, her voice dropping into
its softer tone. ' That is true ; nobody thinks
anything of it, it is merely a matter of form.
Even if you are found out, they never do anything
to you.'

Found out in what f

In saying you are twenty-one when you are
not : for that is what people have to do. It is

just a punctilio, as you say. Nobody thinks
anything of it. It is only a matter of form.'

Why, it is perjury !' he cried, confused, not
knowing what he said.

If you like to call it so ; but nobody minds.
No one is harsh to a fib of that sort. Everything's
fair, don't you know, in love ?  or so they
say.'

Walter's head seemed going round and round.
He could not feel the ground under his feet.
He seemed to be lifted away from his firm and
solid footing and plunged into a dark and
whirling abyss. He could feel her leaning
almost heavily upon his arm  all her weight
upon him, both her hands clasping that support.
That palpable touch seemed the only
reality left in earth and heaven. He seemed to
himself for a long time unable to speak, and
when his voice came forth at last it was not his
voice at all  it was a hoarse outburst of sound
such as he had never heard before. Nor was it
he who said the words. He heard them as if
some one else had said them, hoarse, harsh, Hke
the cry of an animal.

Should you like me to do that V the question
was asked by some one, in that humble
way, in the midst of the chilled but heavenly
stillness of the night.

He heard the question, but he was not conscious
of any answer to it ; nor did he know anymore
till he found himself, or rather heard himself,
stumbling down the steep road to the Hook,
almost falling over the stones in the way, making
a noise which seemed to echo all about. He
knew the way well enough, and where the stony
places were, and generally ran up and down as
lightly as a bird, his rapid elastic steps making
the least possible sound as he skimmed along.
But this evening it was very different. He
stumbled against every obstacle in his way, and
sent the stones whirling down the road in
advance of him as though he had been a
drunken man. He felt indeed as if that were
what he was, intoxicated in a way that had no
pleasure in it, but only a wild and stupefied
confusion, which made a chaos all around  a
noisy chaos full of the crash of external sounds
fuU of voices, conversations, in none of which

he took any part, though he heard things said
that seemed to come from himself flitting across
the surface of his dream.

CHAPTER I.

A DOMESTIC EXPLOSION.

The breakfast-table at the Hook Alas not a
particularly quiet scene. The children were all
in high spirits in the freshness of the morning,
and the toys and Christmas presents, though not
very fine or expensive, had still novelty to recommend
them. Little Molly, before she was
lifted up to her high chair, working away conscientiously
and gravely with a large rattle,
held at the length of her little arm, while her
next little brother drew over the carpet a cart
fitted up with some kind of mechanism which
VOL. III. B

called itself music, and Horry flogged his big
wooden horse, and little Dick added a boom
upon his drum, made a combination of noises
which might well have shut out all external
sounds. This tumult, indeed, calmed when
father came in, when the ringleaders were lifted
up on their chairs, and another kind of commotion,
the sound of spoons and babble of little
voices, began. What other noise could be heard
through it 1

Mab did not think she could have heard anything,
scarcely the approach of an army. But
the ears of the family were used to it, and had
large capabilities. When Martha came in with
a fresh supply of milk and a countenance more
ruddy than usual, her mistress put the question
directly which so embarrassed the young
woman.

Martha, was that your father's voice I heard ?
Is there anything wrong at home V

'No, ma'am  my lady,' said Martha, in her
confusion stumbling over the new title which
she was in fact more particular about than its
possessor.

'What does lie want, then, so early in the
morning ? I hope your mother is not ill.'

Oh, no, my lady.'

Martha grew redder and redder, and lingered
like a messenger who does not know how to
deliver a disagreeable commission, turning her
tray round and round in her hands.

'It is me, no doubt, that Rochford wants.
If it's nothing very particular, he can come
here.'

'Oh, no, sir; oh, please, Sir Edward, no, it
ain't you '

Then who is it, Martha ? some one here it
must be.'

'Please, Sir Edward  please, my lady  I
don't think as it's no one here at all ; it's only a
fancy as he's took in his head. Oh,' cried the
girl, her eyes moist with excitement, her plump
cheeks crimson, ' don't listen to him, don't give
any heed to him I it's all just fancy what he
says.'

Why, what's the matter, Martha ? has John
Baker got into trouble ? Edward, go and see
what is wrong,' said Lady Penton, placidly.

B 2

She was very kind, but, after all, Molly's
bread-and-inilk, and the egg which was ordered
for little Jack because he was delicate, were of
more immediate importance than Martha's love-affairs.
Sir Edward was perhaps even more
amiable in this respect than his wife. Old
Rochford was a favourite in his way, and had
often amused a weary afternoon when the horizon
at the Hook was very limited and Avery dull.
And now even Mab could hear, through the
chatter of the children, the sound of some one
talking, loud but indistinct, outside. At that
moment, with the usual cruelty of fate, a pause
took place in the domestic murmur, and
suddenly Walter's voice became audible, crying,

Hush ! Don't speak so loud.'

The door had been left ajar by Martha, and
these words, so unexpected, so incomprehensible,
fell into the simple warm interior, unconscious
of evil, like a stone into the water.

Go and see what it is, Edward,' Lady Penton
repeated, growing a little pale.

The family to which for so long a time nothing
had happened had got to a crisis, when anything

might happen, and new events were the order
of the day.

Sir Edward, who had been going with great
composure, hm-red his steps a Httle, and, what
was more, closed the door behind him ; but it
cannot be said that he anticipated anything disagreeable.
When he got out into the hall,
however, he was startled by the sight of Walter,
who was pushing Rochford into the book-room,
aud repeating, in a half whisper,

'Hush, I tell you. Be quiet. What good
can it do you to let everybody know V

It's right, Mr. Walter, as your father should
know.'

'Not if I satisfy you,' said the boy. ' Come
in here. They are all at breakfast. Quick.
Whatever it is, I am the person '

Walter's voice broke off short, and his underlip
dropped with a shock of sudden horror. His
father's hand, preventing the closing of it, was
laid upon the book-room door.

'If it is anything that concerns you, Wat, it
must concern me too Sir Edward said.

He did not even now think any more of Walter s

possibilities of ill-doing than of Horry's. They
were still on about the same level to the
father's 'eyes. He supposed it was some innocent
piece of mischief, some practical joke, or
at the worst some piece of boyish negligence,
of which Rochford had come to complain. He
followed the two into the room with the
suspicion of a smile at the corners of his
mouth. He did not quite understand of what
mischief his son might have been guilty, but
there could be nothing very serious in the
matter when old Rochford was the complainant.


Well,' he said, ' old friend, what has my boy
done

But the sight of Sir Edward and this smiling
accost seemed to take the power of speech from
Rochford as well as from Walter. The old
man opened his mouth and his eyes : the colour
faded as far as that was possible out of the
streaky and broken red of his cheeks. He
began to hook his fingers together, changing
them from one twist to another as he turned his
face from the father to the son. It was evident

that, notwithstanding his half-threat to Walter,
the presence of Walter's father was as bewildering
to him as to the young man.

Well, sn,' he said, instinctively putting up
his hand to his head and disordering the scanty
white locks which were drawn over his bald
crown, * I'm one as is for lookiu' ahead, so being
as I'm an old man, and has a deal of time to
think ; my occupation's in the open air, and
things go through my head that oughtn't go
through of another man's.'

That is all very well,' said Sir Edward, still
with his half-smile. ' I have heard you say as
much a great many times, Rochford, but it
generally was followed by something less
abstract. What has your occupation and your
habit of thought to say to my boy V

Upon this Rochford scratched his head more
and more.

I was observing' to Mr. Walter, sir, as a young
gentleman don't think of them things, but as
how it's a good thing to take care : for you never
knows what way trouble's a-going to come. The
storm may be in the big black cloud as covers

the whole sky, or it may be in one that's no
bigger nor a man's hand

Yes, yes, yes,' said Sir Edward, impatiently ;
I tell you I've heard you say that sort of thing
a hundred times. Come to the point. What is
there between Walter and you T

There's nothing, father  nothing whatever.
I haven't seen Rochford for ages, except on the
road. He has done nothing to me nor I to
him.'

Then you'd better be off to your breakfast,
and leave him to me,' said the father, calmly.

His mind was as composed as his looks. He
felt no alarm about his son, but with a little
amusement cast about in his mind how he was
to draw out of the old road-mender the probably
very small and unimportant thread of
complaint or remonstrance that was in him.
But Walter showed no inclination to budge. He
did not, it would appear, care for breakfast. He
stood with his head cast down, but his eye
upon Rochford, not losing a single movement
he made. Sir Edward began to feel a faint
misgiving, and old Rochford took his coloured

handkerchief out of his breast and began to
mop his forehead with it. It was a cold morning,
not the kind of season to affect a man so.
What did it all mean 1

Look here,' said Sir Edward, ' this can't goon
all day. Rochford, you have some sense on
ordinary occasions. Don't think to put me off
with clouds and storms, etc., which you know
have not the least effect upon me ; but tell me
straight off, what has Walter to do with it ? and
what do you mean V

Father,' said Walter, ' it's something about
a lodger he has. There is a  young lady
living there. I've seen her two or three times.
She has spoken to me even, thinking, I suppose,
that I was a gentleman who would not take any
advantage. But the old man doesn't think so ;
he thinks I'm likely to do something dishonourable
 to be a cad, or  I don't know what. You
know whether I'm likely to be anything of the
sort. If you have any confidence in me you will
send him away '

A young lady !' Sir Edward exclaimed, with
amazement.

And that's not just the whole of it, sir, as
Mr. Walter tells you,' said Rochford, put on his
mettle. ' I'm not one as calls a young gentleman
names ; cad and such-like isn't words as
come nat'ral to the likes of me. But, as for
being a lady, there ain't no ladies live in cottages
like mine. I don't go against ladies  nor
lasses neither, when they're good uns.'

What does all this mean ? I think you are
going out of your senses, Wat  both Rochford
and you. Have you been rude to anyone 1  do
you think he has been rude to anyone ? Hold
your tongue, Wat ! Come, my man, speak out.
I must know what this means.'

'It means that he is trying to make
mischief '

'It means, sir,' said Rochford, in his slow,
rural way, taking the words out of Walter's
mouth  ' I beg yom pardon. Sir Edward. I
don't know as I'm giving you the respect as is
your due, though there's none  I'm bold to say
it, be the other who he may  as feels more
respect. It means just this. Sir Edward,' he
went on, advertised by an impatient nod that

he must not lose more time, * as there's mischief
done, or will be, if you dont look into it,
lK>t\veeii this young gentleman  as is a gentleman
born, sir, and your heir  and a little  a 
a ' (Walter's fiery eye, and a certain threatening
of his attitude, as if lie might spring upon
the accuser, changed Rochford's phraseology,
even when the words were in his mouth) ' a
young person,' he said, more quickly, *as is not
his equal, and never can be : as belongs to me,
sir, and is no more a lady nor  nor my Martha,
nor half as good a girl.'

Surprise made k>ir Edward slow of understanding
 surprise and an absence of all alarm, for to
his thinking Walter was a boy, and this talk of
ladies, or young persons, was unintelligible in
such a connection. He said,

There is surely some strange mistake here.
Walter's  why, Walter is too young fen* any
nonsense of this kind. You're  why, you must
be  dreaming, Rochford I You might as well
tell me that Horrv '

Here Sir Edward's eyes turned, (suite involuntarily,
unintentionally upon Walter, standing

lip by the mantel-piece with his hands in his
pockets, his face burning with a dull heat, his
eyes cast down, yet watching under the eyelids
every action of both his companions  a
nameless air about him that spoke of guilt. He
stopped short at the sight ; everything in Walter's
aspect breathed guilt  the furtive watch
he kept, the dull red of anger and shame burning
like a fire in his face : the attitude, his hands
in his pockets, clenched as if ready for a blow.
The first look made Sir Edward stop bewildered,
the second carried to his mind a strange,
painful, unpleasant discovery. Walter was no
longer a boy ! He had parted company from
his father, and from all his father knew of him.
This perception flashed across his mind like
a sudden light. He gasped, and could say no
more.

Rochford took advantage of the pause.

If I may make so bold, sir,' he said, * it's you
as hasn't taken note of the passage of time. It
ain't wonderful. One moment your child here's
a boy at your knee, the next his heart's set on
getting married  or fuss. That's how it goes.

I've had a many children myself, and seen 'em
grow np and buried most on 'em. Martha, she's
my youngest, she's a good lass. As for the
lads, ye can't tell where ye are : one day it's a
pegtop and the next it's a woman. If I may
make so bold, I've known you man and boy for
something like forty years ; and I'm sorry for
you, Su' Edward, that I am.'

Sir Edward heard as if he heard it not, the
hourdonnement of this raw rustic voice in his ears,
and scarcely knew what it meant. He turned
to his son without taking any notice.

Walter,' he said, with something keep, penetrating,
unlike itself in his voice, ' what is this ?
what is this ? I don't seem to understand it.'

He was going to be angry presently, very
angry ; but in the first place it was necessary
that he should know.

I won't deceive you, father,' said Walter,
'from his point of view I suppose he's right
enough  but that is not my point of view.'

'Mr. Walter,' old Rochford said, beginning
one of his speeches.

The old man in his patched coat of an

indescribable colour, the colour of the woods
and hedgerows, with his red handkerchief
in a wisp round his neck, the lock of thin
grey hair smoothed over his bald crown,
his hat in his old knotted rugged hands,
all knuckles and protrusions, came into Sir
Edward's mind, as the companion figure leaning
on the mantel-piece had done, like a picture all
full of meaning; but he stopped the old man's
slow discourse with a wave of his hand, and
turned to his son, impatiently. He had not
voice enough in his bewilderment to say, ' Goon,'
 he said it with his hand.

Well, sir !' said the lad, ' I don't know what
I have to say; there are things one man doesn't
tell another, even if it's his father. There's nothing
in me that is dishonourable, if that is what
you mean. If there were, it is her eye I should
shrink from first of all.'

Her eye ! The father stood confounded, notable
to believe his ears. He made one more
attempt at a question, not with words, but with
a half stupefied look, again silencing Rochford
with his hand.

I tell you, father,' cried Walter, with irritation,
' there are things one man doesn't tell

another, not even if ' He was pleased, poor

boy, with that phials ; but the examination,
the discovery was intolerable to him. He gave
a wave of his hand towards Rochford, as if saying,
' Question him  hear him  hear the worst
of me !' with a sort of contemptuous indignation :
then shot between the two other men like an
arrow, and was gone.

Things one man doesn't tell to another, even
if it's his father I' One man to another I was it
laughable, was it tragical ? Sir Edward, in the
confusion of his soul, could not tell. He looked
at Rochford, but not for information ; was it for
sympathy ? though the old stone-breaker was atone
extremity of the world and he at the other.
He felt himself shaking his head in a sort of
intercommunion with old Rochford, and then
stopped himself with a kind of angry dismay.

If you've anything to say on this subject, let
me have it at once,' he said.

I can talk more freely, sir, now as he's gone.
That young gentleman is that fiery, and that

deceived. The young tins is like that, Sir
Edward ; us as is older should make allowances,
though noah and again a body forgets. I'm
one that makes a deal of allowances myself,
being a great thinker, Sir Edward, in my poor
way. Well, sir, it's this, sir  and glad I amas
you're by yourself and I can speak free.
She's nobody no more nor I am. She's a little
baggage, that's what she is. How she come tome
was this. A brother of mine, as has been
no better than what you may call a rolling' stone
all his life, and has done a many foolish things,
what does he do at last but marry a woman as
had been a play-actress, and I don't know what.
They say as she was always respectable  I
don't know. And she had a daughter, this
little baggage as is here, as was her daughter,
not his, nor belonging to none o' us. But her
mother, she bothered me to 'ave 'er, to take her
out of some man's way as wanted to marry her,
but his friends wouldn't hear of it. And that's
how it is. How she came across Mr. Walter is
more than I can tell. That's just how things
happens, that is. You or me, Sir Edward,

begging* your pardon, sir, it's a thing that don't
occur to the likes of us : but when a young
gentleman is young and tender-hearted, and
don't know the world The ways of Providence
is past explaining,' Rochford said.

Sir Edward stood with, that habitual look in
his face of a man injured and aggrieved, and
full of a troubled yet mild remonstrance with
fate, and listened to all this only half hearing it.
He heard enough to understand in a dull sort of
way what it was which had happened to his
boy, a thing which produced upon him perhaps
a heavier effect than it need have done by
reason of the vagueness in which it was wrapped,
the blurred and misty outline of the facts making
it so much more considerable. It was not
what Rochford said it was, not the mere discovery
that his son had got into a foolish ' entanglement,'
as so many have done before him,
with some village girl, that produced this effect
upon him. It was Walter's words so strangely
dislocating the connection between them, cutting
the ground from under his feet, changing
the very foundations of life : ' things one man

VOL. III. C

doesn't tell to another'  one man !  to another.
He kept saying it over in his mind with a
bewilderment that kept growing, a confusion
which he could not get right  one man, to
another. It was this he was thinking of, and
not what Rochford had said, when he went
back to the dining-room, where all the children
had finished breakfast, and his wife met him
With a look so full of surprise.

What has kept you, Edward? everything is
cold. Have you sent Wat out for anything?
Has anything happened?' she said.

CHAPTER 11.

MATERNAL DIPLOMACY.

You had better send the children off to play,
and never mind if everything is cold. It's my
own fault ; it's the fault of circumstances.'

He seated himself at table as he spoke, helping
himself to some of the cold bacon, which was
not appetising : nor had he much appetite. His
face was full of care as he swallowed his cup of
tea, keeping an eye uneasily upon the children
as they were gradually coaxed and led and
pushed away. When the door closed upon the
last of them there was still a moment of
silence. Sir Edward trifled with his cold bacon,
he crumbled his roll, he swallowed his tea inlarge
abstract gulps, but said nothing, his mind

c2

being so full, yet so confused and out of gear.
And it was not till his wife repeated her question,
this time with a tone of anxiety, that he
replied,

What is it ? It's something that has taken
me all aback, as you see. It's  something about
a woman.'

Something about a woman I' she repeated,
with the utmost astonishment ; but, had he said
'something about a cabbage,' Lady Penton
could not have been less alarmed.

Living at old Rochford's,' he went on. ' I
don't understand the story. The old man talked
and talked, and Walter '

'What has Walter to do with it, Edward?
He has gone out without any breakfast. Have
you sent him to see after anything ? Where has
he gone V

Gone ! is he gone ? Why, he's gone to her,
I suppose : that's the amusing thing. He says
there's things one man doesn't tell to another ;"
one man !  that's how Wat speaks to me, Annie.'
He gave a laugh which was far from joyful. ' I
think the boys gone off his head.'

Wat says  ? I don't know what you mean,
Edward.'

'Nor more do I ; it's past understanding. It's
the sort of thing people talk of, but I never
thought it would come in our way. It's an entanglement
with some girl in the village. Don't
you know what that means V

Edward !* cried the mother ; and a flash of
colour like a flame passed over her face. She
was confounded, and unable to make any comment
even in her thoughts.

You can't take it in, and I don't wonder ;
neither can I, that know more of the world
than you can do. Our Wat, that has never
seemed anything but a schoolboy ! Why, Horry
Yi\\ be saying presently, '' There are some

things that one man doesn't tell to " I don't

know what the world is coming to,' he cried,
sharply.

When Sir Edward himself was taken by
surprise, he felt by instinct that something
sudden and unexpected must have occurred to
the world.

Lady Penton was perhaps still more taken by

surprise than her husband. But she did not
make any observations against the world. The
sudden flush faded from her face as she sat
opposite to him, her astonished eyes still fixed
upon him, her hands crossed in her lap. But a
whole panorama instantly revealed itself before
her mind.

How could she have been so blind? Walter
had been absent continually, whenever he
could get an opportunity of stealing away.
The reading in the evening, and a hundred
little kindly offices which he had been in the
habit of performing for his sisters, and with
them, had all dropped, as she suddenly perceived.
For weeks past he had been with them very
Httle, taking little interest in the small family
events, abstracted and dreamy, wrapped in a
world of his own. She saw it all now as by
a sudden flash of enlightenment. ' Some things
a man doesn't tell to another man '  oh no, not
even to another woman, not to his mother!
How strange, bewildering, full of confusion,
and yet somehow how natural ! This was not
her husband's point of view. To him it was

monstrous, a thing that never used to happen,
an instance of the decay and degradation of the
world. Lady Penton, though the most innocent
of women, did not feel this. To her, with a
curious burst of understanding, as if a new
world had opened at her feet, it seemed natural,
something which she ought to have expected,
something that expanded and widened out her
own world of consciousness.

Walter, then, her boy, loved somebody. It
brought a renewed, fainter flush to her cheek,
and a wonderfully tender light to her eyes.
She thought of that first, before it occurred to
her to think (all being the work of a moment)
who it was who had opened this new chapter
in her boy's life, and made Walter a man, the
equal of his father. Oh, that he should have
become the equal of his father, a man, loving,
drawing to himself the life of another, he who
was only a boy ! This wonder, though it might
have an acute touch in it, had also a curious
sweetness. For Lady Penton was not the
hungering jealous mother of one child, but th e
soft expansive parent of many, and never had

shut herself up in the hope of retaining them
altogether for her own.

It is very strange,' she said, after a pause,
it takes a good time to accustom one's self to
such an idea ' (which was not the case, for she
had done it in the flash of a moment). ' It would
be quite nice  and agreeable,' she added, with
some timidity, * if it was a  right person ; but
did you say, Edward  ivhat did you say V

Nice !' he cried, with an explosion like
thunder, or so it seemed to his wife's ears, a
Httle nervous with all that had happened. ' You
can't have listened to what I have been saying.
I told you plainly enough. A girl that has been
living at old Rochford's, a girl out of the village
no, worse, much worse, sent down from
London, to be out of some one's way '

Lady Penton had sprung to her feet, and
came towards him with her hands clasped, as if
praying for mercj

 Oh ! Edward, no, no, no ; don't say all that,
Edward,' she cried.

 What am I to say ? It's all true so far as I
know. You can ask Martha about her. Perhaps

that's the best way ; trust one woman to tell
you the worst that's to be said of another. Yes,
I think on the whole that's the best way. Have
her np and let us hear '

What !' said Lady Penton, ' call up Martha,
and question her about a thing that Walter's
mixed up in ? let her know that we are in
trouble about our boy ? make her talk about 
about that sort of thing  before you'd I don't
know what sort of a woman you take me for,
Edward. At all events, that is not what you
would ever get me to do.'

He stared at her, only partially understanding
 perhaps indeed not understanding at all,
but feeling an obstacle vaguely shape itself in
his path.

Annie,' he said, ' there's no room for
sentiment here : whatever the girl is, she's not a
person that should ever have come in Walter's
way.'

Upon which his mother without any warning
began suddenly to cry, a thing which was still
more confusing to her husband : exclaiming by
intervals,

 Oh ! my Wat ! Oh ! my poor boy ! What
did you say to hmi? You must have been
harsh, Edward ; oh, you must have been harsh ;
and to think he should have rushed out without
any breakfast !'

Lady Penton sobbed and cried.

It was not very long, however, before the
mistress of the house, returning to the routine of
domestic matters and with no trace of tears
about her, though there was a new and unaccustomed
look of anxiety in her eyes, found
Martha in the pantry, where she was cleaning
the silver, and lingered to give her a few orders,
especially in respect to the plate. Lady Penton
pointed out to her that she was using too
much plate-powder, that she was not sufficiently
careful with the chasing and the raised silver
of the edges, with various other important
pieces of advice, which Martha took with some
curtseys but not much satisfaction. Lady Pen-ton
then made several remarks about the crystal
which it would be impertinent to quote : and
then she smoothed matters by asking Martha
how her mother was.

I have not seen her for some time ; I suppose
she doesn't go out in this cold weather, which is
good for no one,' said Lady Penton.

Oh, my lady, there's worse things than the
bad weather,' cried Martha.

She was her father's child, and apt, like him,
to moralise.

That is very true : but the bad weather is
at the bottom of a great deal of rheumatism and
bronchitis as well as many other things.'

Yes, my lady, but there's things as you can't
have the doctor to, and them's the worst of
all.'

I hope none of your brothers are a trouble to
her, Martha ; I thought they were all doing so
well?'

Oh, it ain't none of the boys, my lady. It's
one as is nothing to us, not a blood relation at
all. Father was telling master  or, at least,
he come up a-purpose to tell master, but I
begged him not,' said the young woman, rubbing
with redoubled energy. ' I said, " Father,
what's the good ?" '

You are very right there, Martha : Sir

Edward is only annoyed with complaints from
the village ; he can't do anything. It is much
better in such a case to come to me.'

'Yes, my lady : I didn't want them to trouble
you neither. I told 'em her ladyship had a deal
to think of. You see, my lady, mother s deaf,
and things might go on  oh, they might go onto
any length afore she'd hear.'

I know she is deaf, poor thing,' Lady Penton
said.

That was why I didn't want her to take a
lodger at all, my lady. But Emmy's not a
lodger, after all. She's a kind of a relation.
She's Uncle Sam's wife's daughter, and she
didn't look like one as would give trouble.
She's just as nice-spoken as anyone could be,
and said she was to help mother ; and so she
does, and always kind. Whatever father says,
she always been kind  and that handy, turning
an old gown to look like new, and telling
you how things is worn, and all what you can
see in the shops, and as good-natured with it
all '

Of whom are you speaking, Martha ? Emmy,

did you say ? Who is Emmy ? I have never
heard of her before.'

She's the young T\'oman, my lady ; oh I she's
the one  she's the young person, she's  it washer
as father came to speak of, and wouldn't
hold his tongue or listen to me.'

What is there to say about her ? Sir Edward,
I am afraid, did not understand. He has a great
many things to think of. It would have been
much better if your father had come to me.
Who is she, and what has she done V

Lady Penton spoke with a calm and composure
that Alas almost too complete; but
Martha was absorbed in her own distress and
suspected nothing of this.

Please, my lady,' she cried, with a curtsey,
she have done nothing. She's dreadful taking,
that's all. When she gets talking, you could
just stop there for ever. It's a great waste of
time when you've a deal to do, but it ain't no
fault of hers. She makes you laugh, and she
makes you cry, and, though she don't give herself
no airs, she can talk as nice as any of the
quality, as if she was every bit a lady  and

the next moment the same as mother or Hke
me.'

She must be very clever,' said Lady Penton.
Is she pretty too V

I don't know as I should have taken no
notice of her looks but for other folks a-walking"
of them,' said Martha. ' I don't know as I sees
her any different from other folks ; but, as for
good nature and making things pleasant, there
ain't none like her high nor low.'

And what is she doing here ? and why did
your father come to Sir Edward about lier
said Lady Penton, in her magisterial calm.

Oh, my lady, you'll not be pleased ; I'd
rather not tell you. When father does notice a
thing he's that suspicious ! I'd rather not oh,
I'd rather not !'

'This is nonsense, Martha  you had much
better tell me. What has this girl been doing
that Sir Edward ought to know V

Martha twisted her singers together in overwhelming
embarrassment.

Oh, my lady, don't ask me ! I could not
bear to tell you  and you'd not be pleased.'

What have 1 to do with it, my good girl V
said Walter's mother, as steadily as if she had
been made of marble; and then she added,.
*But after hearing so much 1 must know. You
had better tell me. I may perhaps be of use to
her, poor thing I'

Oh, my lady. Sir Edward's tell you. Oh,
what have I got to do pushing into it I Oh, if
you're that kind, my lady, and not angry I'
Here Martha paused, and took a supreme resolution.
*Its all father's doing, though I say it
as shouldn't. He thinks as Mr. Walter  oh, my
lady, Mr. Walter's like your ladyship  he's that
civil and kind I'

I am glad you think so, Martha. Gentlemen
are very different from us ; they don't think of
things that come into every woman's mind. I
shall be angry indeed if you keep me standing
asking questions. What has all this to do nth
m} son V

'It's all father's ways of thinking. There's
nothing in it  not a thing to talk about. It's
just this  as Mr. Walter has seen Emmy a time
or two at the cottage door. And he's said a

civil word. And Emmy is one as likes to talk
to gentlefolks, being more like them in herself
than the likes of us. And so  and so  father s
taken things into his head  as he did, m}' lady,'
cried Martha, with a bhish and a sudden change
of tone, * about John Baker and me

About John Baker and you V

Yes, my lady,' cried Martha, very red ; ' and
there's no more truth in it the one nor the other.
Can't a girl say a word but it's brought up
against her, like as it was a sin ? or give a civil
answer but it's said she's keeping company ? It
ain't neither just nor right. It's as unkind as
can be. It's just miserable living' when there's
nought but folks suspecting of you all round.'

Martha, is that how your father treated
John Baker and you ? I think youe hard upon
your father. He behaved very well about that,
and you know you were yourself to blame.
This that you tell me is all nonsense, to be sure.
I will speak to Mr. Walter.' She paused a
little, and then asked, ' This Emmy that you
tell me of  is she a nice girl V
< * Oh, yes, my lady.'

Is she one that gives a civil answer, as you
say, whoever talks to her V

 Oh, yes, my lady.'

Not particularly to young men ?'

Oh, no, my lady,' said Martha, with vehemence,
her countenance flaming red, like the
afternoon sun.

If that is all true,' said Lady Penton, 'you
may be sure she shall have a friend in me. But
I hope it is all true.'

*As sure as  oh, as sure as the Catechism or
the Prayer-book I Oh, my lady, as sure as I'm
speaking : and I wouldn't deceive your ladyship
no, I wouldn't deceive you, not for nothing in
the world !'

'Except in respect to John Baker,' said Lady
Penton, with a smile ; at which Martha burst
out crying over the silver that she had been
cleaning, and made her plate-powder no better
than a puddle of reddish mud.

This led Lady Penton to make a few more
observations on the subject with which she had
begun the conversation ; and then she went
away. But, if Martha was left weeping, her

VOL. III. D

mistress did not carry a light heart out of the
pantry, where she had got so much information.
The picture of the village siren was not calculated
to reassure a mother. She had thought
at first that Martha was an enemy, and ready to
give the worst version of the story ; and then
it had turned out that Martha herself was on
the side of the girl who had fascinated Walter.
Had she fascinated Walter ? Was it possible 
a girl at a cottage door  a girl who  gave a
civil answer ?

Lady Seaton's imagination rebelled against
this description; it rebelled still more at the
comparison with John Baker, with whom Martha
herself had gone through a troublous episode.
Walter Penton like John Baker ! She tried to
smile, but her lips quivered a little. What was
this new thing that had fallen into the peaceful
family all in a moment like a bomb full of fire
and trouble? She could not get rid of the
foolish picture  the girl at the cottage door,
smiling on whosoever passed, with her civil answer;
and Walter  her Walter, her firstborn, the

heir of Penton  Walter caught by that vulgar
snare as he passed by !

Had it been a poor lady, the curate's daughter,
the immaculate governess of romance  but
the girl whose conversation was so captivating
to [Martha, who described what things were
worn, and all that you could see in the shops 
and then, with a smile at the cottage door,
caught the unwary boy to whom every girl was
a thing to be respected. Martha's little bubble
of tears in the pantry were nothing to the few
salt drops that came to her mistress's eyes. But
Lady Penton went afterwards to the book-room
and told her husband that, so far as she could
make out, old Rochford must have made a
mistake.

Martha gives a very good account of the
girl,' she said, ' and Walter, no doubt, had only
talked to her a little, meaning no harm.'

He would not have answered me as he did
this morning if there had been no harm,' said
Sir Edward, shaking his head.

You must have been harsh with him,' said

d2

his wife. ' You must have looked as if you
believed Rochford, and not him.'

I was not harsh : am I ever harsh V cried the
injured father.

Edward, the boy darted out without any
breakfast I How is he to go through the day
without any breakfast ? Would he have done
that if you had not been harsh to him V Lady
Penton said.

CHAPTER III.

WAITING.

The day was a painful one to all concerned :
to the father and mother, who knew, though
vaguely, all about it, and to the children, who
knew only that something was wrong, and that
it was Walter who was in fault, a thing incomprehensible,
which no one could understand.
The girls felt that they themselves might have
gone a little astray, that they could acknowledge
that as possible ; but Walter ! what could
he have done to upset the household, to make
the father so angry, the mother so sad ?  to
rush out himself upon the world without his
breakfast ? That little detail affected their
minds perhaps the most of all. The break of

every tradition and habit of life was thus punctuated
with a sharpness that permitted no mistake.
He had gone out without any breakfast
rushing, driving the gravel in showers from
his angry feet.

When the time of the mid-day repast came
round there was a painful expectancy in the
house. He must return to dinner, they said to
themselves. But Walter did not come back for
dinner. He was not visible all day. The girls
thought they saw him in the distance when they
went out disconsolately for a walk in the afternoon,
feeling it their duty to Mab. Oh, why
was she there, a stranger in the midst of their
trouble ! They thought they saw him at the
top of the steep hill going up from the house
to the village. But though they hurried, and
Anne ran on in advance, by the time she got to
the top he was gone and not a trace of him to
be seen. Their hearts were sadly torn between
this unaccustomed and awful cloud of anxiety
and the duties they owed to their guest. And
still more dreadful was it when the Penton carriage
came for Mab with a note only, telling

her to do as she pleased, to stay for a few days
longer if she pleased.

Oh, may 1 stay V she asked, with a confidence
in their kindness which was very flattering,
but at that moment more embarrassing
than words could say.

The two girls exchanged a guilty look, while
Lady Penton replied, faltering :

My dear ! it is very sweet of you to wish it.
If it will not be very dull for you '

Oh, dull !' said Mab, ' with Ally and Anne,
and all the children : and at Penton there is
nobody!'

A frank statement of this sort, though it maybe
selfish, is flattering ; indeed, the selfishness
which desires your particular society is always
flattering. None of them could say a word
against it. They could not tell their visitor
that she was  oh, so sadly !  in their way, that
they could not talk at their ease before her ;
and that to be compelled to admit her into this
new and unlooked-for family trouble was such
a thing as made the burden miserable, scarcely
to be borne. All this was in their hearts, but

they conch not say it. They exchanged a look
behind backs, and Lady Penton repeated, with
a faint quaver in her voice,

My dear ! Of course, we shall be only too
glad to have you if you think it will not be
dull.'

When Mab ran to write her note and announce
her intention to remain, the three ladies felt like
conspirators standing together in a little circle
looking at each other dolefully.

Oh, mother, why didn't you say they must
want her at Penton, and that we did not want
her here V

Hush, girls ! Poor little thing, when she is
an orphan, and so fond of you all ; though I
wish it had been another time,' Lady Penton
said, with a sigh.

They seized her, one by each arm, almost
surrounding her, in their close embrace.

Mother, what has Wat done ? Mother, what
is it about Wats

Oh, hush, hush, my dears !' And Lady Pen-ton
added, disengaging herself with a smile to
meet Mab, who came rushing into the room in

gi-eat spirits, ' I think as long as the daylight
lasts you ought to have your walk.'

It was after this that the girls thought they
saw Walter, but could not find any trace of him
when they reached the top of the hill.

There had never been any mystery, any
anxiety, save in respect to the illnesses that
break the routine of life with innocent trouble
which anybody may share, in this innocent
household. To make excuses for an absent
member, and account for his absence as if it
were the most natural thing in the world  not
to show that you start at every opening of the
door; to refrain heroically from that forlorn watch
of the window, that listening for every sound
which anxiety teaches ; to talk and smile even
when there are noises, a stir outside, a summons
at the door that seems to indicate the
wanderer's return  how were they to have that
science of trouble all in a moment ?

Lady Penton leaped to its very heights at
once. She sat there as if all her life she had
been going through that discipline, talking to
Mab, surveying the children, neglecting nothing,

while all the while her heart was ia her ears,
and she heard before anyone the faintest movement
outside.

They were all very silent at table, Sir Edward
making no attempt to disguise the fact that he
was out of humour and had nothing to say to
anyone, while the girls exchanged piteous looks
and kept up an anxious telegraphic communication.
But Walter never appeared. Neither
to dinner, neither in the evening did he return
the two meals passed without him, his place
vacant, staring in their faces, as Anne said.
Where was hel What could he be doing?
Into what depth of trouble and misery must a
boy have fallen who darts out of his father's
house without any breakfast, and, as far as can
be known, has nothing to eat all day ? Where
could he go to have any dinner 1 AVhat could
have happened to him 1

These words express the entire disorganisation
of life, the end of all things in a family
point of view, which this dreadful day meant to
Walter's sisters, and to his mother in a less
degree. Nothing else that could have been

imagined would have reached then* hearts m the
same way. And the last aggravation was
given by the fact that all this which they felt
so acutely to imply the deepest reproach against
AValter was apparent to little Mab, sitting therewith
her little smiling face as if there was no
trouble in the world. Oh, it was far better, no
doubt, that she should suspect nothing, that she
should remain in her certainty, so far as Penton
Hook was concerned, that there was no trouble
in the world I But her face, all tranquil and at
ease, her easy flow of talk, her questions, her
commentaries, as if life were all so simple and
anybody could understand it !

The impatience which sometimes almost overcame
all the powers of self-control in Ally and
in Anne, cannot be described. They almost
hated Mab's pretty blue eyes, and her comfortable,
innocent, unsuspecting smile. Had anyone
told them that little Mab, that little woman of
the world, was very keenly alive to everything
that was going on, and had formed her little
theory, and believed herself to know quite well
what it was all about, the other girls would.

have rejected such an accusation with disdain.

It was quite late, after everything was over,
the children all in bed, all the noises of the
house hushed and silent, when Walter came
home. The family were sitting together in the
drawing-room, very dull, as Lady Penton had

rcAvarned the little guest they would be. She
herself had suggested a game of bezique, which
she was ready to have played had it been
necessary : but Ally and Anne could not for
shame let their mother take that rude and arduous
task in hand. So this little group of girls
had gathered round the table, a pretty contrast
in their extreme freshness and youthfulness.

The gravity of this, to her, terrible and un-thoughts
crisis, the horror of what might be
happening, threw a shade upon Ally's passive
countenance Which suited it. She was very
pale, her soft eyes cast down, a faint movement
about her mouth. She might have burst outcrying
over her cards at any moment in the
profound tension of her gentle spirit.

Anne was different ; the excitement had gone
to her head, all her faculties were sharpened;

she had the look of a gambler, keen and eager
on her game, though her concentrated attention
was not on that at all. She held her head
erect, her slender shoulders thrown back, her
breath came quickly through her slightly opened
lips. Mab was just as usual, with her pretty
complexion and her blue eyes, laughing, carrying
on a little babble of remark.

A royal marriage I Oh, Anne, what
luck !'

'Another card, please  yes, I will have
another.'

Her voice was almost the only one that disturbed
the silence. Lady Penton in her usual
place was a little indistinct in the shade. She
had turned her head from the group, and her
usually busy hands lay clasped in her lap. She
was doing nothing but listening. Sometimes
even she closed her eyes, that nothing might be
subtracted from her power of hearing. Her
husband, still further in the background, could
not keep still. Sometimes he would sit down
for a moment, then rise again and pace about,
or stand before the bookshelves as if looking

for a book ; but he wanted no book  he could
not rest.

And then in the midst of the silence of the
scene came the sounds that rang into all their
hearts. The gate with its familiar jar across
the gravel, the click of the latch, then the step,
hurried, irregular, making the gravel fly. Lady
Penton did not move, nor did Sir Edward, who
stood behind her, as if he had been suddenly
frozen in the act of walking and could not take
another step. Ally's cards fell from her hands
and had to be gathered from the floor with a
little scuffle and confusion, in the midst of which
they were all aware that the hall-door was
pushed open, that the step came in and hurried
across the hall upstairs and to Walter's room,
the door of which closed with a dull echo that
ran through all the house. Their hearts stood
still; and then sudden ease diffused itself
throughout the place  relief  something that
felt like happiness. He had come back ! In a
moment more the girls' voices rose into soft
laughter and talk. What more was wanted?
Wat had come back. As long as he was at

home, within those protecting walls, what could
go wrong ?

Oh, what a fright we have had,' said Ally's
eyes, th tears in them, to those of Anne ;
'but now it's all over! He has come back.'

The parents looked at each other in the half
light under the shade of the lamp. When
Walter's door closed upstairs Sir Edward made
a step forward as if to follow to his son's room,
but Lady Penton put up her hand to check
him.

Don't she said, under her breath.

It still seemed to her that her husband must-have
been harsh.

Some one must speak to him,' said Sir
Edward, in the same tone ; ' this cannot be
allowed to go on.'

Oh, no, no ; go on ! oh, no, it can't go on.'

What do you mean, Annie V cried her husband,
leaning over her chair. ' Do you think I
should take no notice after the dreadful day we
have spent, and all on his account V

'No, no,' she said, in a voice which was
scarcely audible ; 'no, no.'

What am I to do, then  what ought I to do ?
I don't want to risk a scene again, but to say
no, no," means nothing. What do you think I
should do r

She caught his hand in hers as he leaned over
her chair, their two heads were close together.

Oh, Edward, you've always been very good
to me she said.

What nonsense, Annie ! good to you ! we've
not been two, we've been one ; why do you
speak to me so 1'

Edwards she whispered, leaning back her
middle-aged head upon his middle-aged shoulder.
Oh, Edward, this once let me see him. I know
the father is the first. Its right you should bethe
first ; but, Edward, this once let me see him,
let me speak to him. He might be softer to his
mother.'

There was a pause, and he did not know
himself, still less did she know, whether he was
to be angry or to yield. He had perhaps in his
mind something of both. He detached his
hand from hers with a little sharpness, but he
said,

Go, then : you are right enough ; perhaps
you will manage him better than I.'

She went softly out of the room, while the
girls sat over their cards in the circle of the
lamplight. They had not paid much attention
to the murmur of conversation behind them.
They thought she had gone to see about some
supper for Walter, who had probably been fasting
all day, an idea which had also entered
Ally's mind as a right thing to do ; but mother,
they knew, would prefer to do it herself. She
did not, however, in the first place, think of
Walter's supper. She went up the dim staircase,
where there was scarcely any light, not
taking any candle with her, and made her way
along the dark passage to Walter's door. He
had no light, nor was there any sound as she
opened the door softly and went in. Was it
possible he was not there ? The room was all
dark, and not a murmur in it, not even the
sound of breathing.

A dreadful chill of terror came over Lady
Penton's heart. She said, with a trembhug
voice,

VOL. III. E

Walter, Walter !' with an urgent and frightened
cry.

There was a sound of some one turning on
the bed, and Walter's voice said out of the
dark, in a muffled and sullen tone,

'What do you want, mother? I thought here
I might have been left in peace.'

Wat !' she cried, ' in peace. Is this how
you speak to me ? Oh, my boy, where have
you been?'

It can't matter much where I've been. I've
been doing no harm.'

'No, dear. I never thought you had,' said
his mother, groping her way to the bedside and
sitting down by him.

She put out her hand till it reached where his
head was lying. His forehead was hot and
damp, and he put her hand away fretfully.

You forget,' he said, ' I'm not a baby now.'

You are always my boy, Wat, and will be,
however old you may grow. If your father
was harsh, he did not mean it. Oh, why did
you rush away like that without any breakfast ?
Walter, tell me the truth, have you had anything

to eat ? have you had some dinner ? Tell

me the truth.'

There was a pause, and then he said,

I forget ; is that all you think of, mother V

Xo, Wat, not all I think of, but 1 think of

that too. If I bring you up something, will you

eat it, Wat r

For pity's sake let me alone,' he said, pettishly,
* and go away.'

Walter!'

Let me alone, mother, for to-night. I can't
say anything to-night. I came to bed on purpose
to be quiet ; leave me alone for to-night.'

If I do, Wat, you will hear us, you will not
turn your back upon us tomorrow V

Good-night, mother,' said the lad.

He had turned his head away, but she bent
over him and kissed his hot cheek.

I will tell your father he is not to say anything.
And I will leave you, since you want me.
But you will take the advice of your best friends
tomorrow, Wat.'

Good-night, mother,' he said again, and
turned his flushed and shame-faced cheek to

E 2



respond, since it was in the dark, to her kiss.

Wat, there is nobody in the world can love
you as we do. God bless you, my dear,' she
said.

And, listening in the dark, he heard the faint
sound of her soft footsteps receding, passing
away into the depths of the silent house, leaving
him not silent, not quiet, as he said, but with a
wild world of intentions and impulses whirling
within him, all agitation, commotion, revolution
to his finger-ends.

CHAPTER IV.

POOR Y ALTER !

When Walter, in ungovernable excitement,
trouble, and impatience, rushed out of the house
in the morning, leaving old Rochford to make
he knew not what revelations to his father, he
had no idea either what he was going to do, or
how long it might be before he returned home.
It might have been that he was leaving the
Hook  his birthplace, the only home he had
ever known  for years. He might never see all
these familiar things again  the pale river winding
round the garden, the poplar-tree, thin and
naked, in the wind, the little multitude in the
dining-room making a hum and murmur of
voice as he darted past. In his imagination he

saw so clearly that breakfast-table  his mother
dividing to each of the children their proper share.
Ally and Anne, and little Molly, with her spoon,
making flourishes, and calling, ' Fader, fader !'
He saw them all with the distinctness of inward
vision as he darted away, though his mind was
full of another image.

The pang with which, even in the heat of his
flight, he realised that he was going away, lay
in the background of his heart, as that picture
was in the background of his imagination;
foremost was the idea of seeing her at once,
of telling her that all was over here, and that
he was ready to fly to the end of the world
if she would but come with him, and that
all should be as she pleased. He had forgotten
the suggestion of last night about the
oath which he would have to take as to his age.
Nothing was apparent to him except that his
secret was betrayed, that all was over, that she
alone remained to him, and that nothing now
stood between him and her.

He rushed up the hill to the cottage, feeling
that reserves and concealments were no longer

necessary, that the moment of decision was
come, and that there must be no more delay.
He would not wait any longer patrolling about
the house till she should see him from a window
or hear his signal. He went up to the cottage
door and knocked loudly. He must see her,
and that without a moment's delay.

It seemed to Walter that he stood a long time
knocking at the cottage door. He heard the
sound of many goings and comings within, so
that it was not because they were absent that
he was not admitted. At last the door was
opened suddenly by old Mrs. Rochford, who
was dccif, and who made no answer to his demand
except by shaking her head and repeating
the quite unnecessary explanation that she was
hard of hearing, backed by many curtseys and
inquiries for the family.

'My master's out, Mr. Walter  Rochford's
not in, sir ; he's gone to work, as he allays does.
Shall I send him, sir, to the 'ouse when he comes
in to 'is dinner V she said, with many bobs and
hopes as how her ladyship and all the family
were well.

Whether this was all she knew, or whether
the old woman was astute, and brought her infirmity
to the aid of her wits, he could not tell.

I want to see your niece,' he said  'your
niece  your niece Emmy ; I want to see Emmy,'
without eliciting any further reply than,

My master's out, Mr. Walter, and I'm a little
'ard of 'earing, sir.'

He raised his voice so that she must have
heard him, and surely, surely, in the condition
in which things were, ought to have answered
him ! But perhaps she was anxious to keep
up appearances still. He said, in his loudest
voice,

I am leaving home ; I must see her :' but
even this produced no response : and at last he
was obliged to go away, feeling as if all the
machinery of life had come to a standstill, and
that nothing remained for him to do.

He had abandoned one existence, but the
other did not take him up. He roamed about
for he scarcely knew how long, till the wintry
sun was high in the sky, then came back, and
in the audacity of despair  for so he felt it 

knocked again, this time softly, disguising his
impatience, at the cottage door. He had acted
wisely, it appeared, for she herself opened to
him this time, receding from the door with a
startled cry when she saw who it was. But this
time he would not be put off. He followed her
into the Httle room in front, which was a kind of
parlour, adorned by the taste of Martha and her
mother, cold, with its little fireplace decked out
in cut paper, and the blind drawn down to
protect it from the sun. He caught sight of a
box, which seemed to be half-packed, and which
she closed hastily and pushed away.

She turned upon him when he had followed
inside this room,, with an angry aspect that
made poor Walter tremble.

Why do you hunt me down like this V she
cried ; ' couldn't you see I didn't want you when
you came this morning pushing your way into
the house ? Though it's a cottage, still it's my
castle if I want to be private here !'

Emmy !' cried the youth, with the keenest
pang of misery in his voice.

Why do you call out my name like that?

You objected to what I told you last night. Go
away now. I don't want to have anything to
say to a man that objects to my plans, as if
didn't know what's right and what's wrong !'

I object to nothing,' said the boy. ' You
sent me away from you, you gave me no time
to think. And now my father knows everything,
and I have left home ; I shall never go
back any more.'

Left home ! And how does your father know
everything ' And what is there to know V

'Nothing!' cried Walter  'nothing except
that I am yours, heart and soul  except that I
desire nothing, think of nothing but you. And
they had never heard of you before I'

She closed the door and pushed the chair
towards him.

How did they know about me ?  what do
they know now 1 Was it you that told them 'i
And what do they think?' she cried, with a
slight breathlessness that told of excitement.

Poor Walter was glad to sit down, he was
faint and weary ; that rush out of doors into the
frosty air without any breakfast, Which had affected

the imaginations of his family so much,
had told on him. He felt that there was no
strength in him, and that he was glad to rest.

It was old Crookford who told them,' he said.
He came in upon me this morning like a  like a
wolf : and my father of course heard, and came
to see what it was.'

Oh,' she said, in a tone of disappointment,
not without contempt in it, ' so it was not you !
I thought perhaps, being so overwhelmed by
what I said, you had gone light off and told
your mother, as a good boy should. So it Alas
only old Rochford ? and I gave you the credit !
But I might have known,' she added, with a
laugh, ' you had not the courage for that !'

Courage I I did not think of it,' he said. ' It
did not seem a thing to tell them. How was I
to do it ? And Rochford came  I don't know
what for  to forbid me the house.'

No ; but to drive me out of it I' she said,
with a look which he did not understand. ' So
you hadn't the courage,' she said. ' You have
not much courage, Mr. Walter Penton, to be
such a fine young man. You come here night

after night, and you pretend to be fond of me.
But when it comes to the point you aren't say
to your father and mother straight out, " Here's
a girl I'm in love with, and I want to marry
her. I'll do it as soon as I'm old enough,
whether you like it or not ; but if you were nice,
end paid a little attention to her, it would be
better for us all." That is what I should have
said in your place. But you hadn't the heart,
no more than you'd have had the heart to run
a little risk about your age and say you were
six months older than you are. That's like a
man ! You expect a girl to run every risk, to
trust herself to you and her whole life ; but todo
anything that risks your own precious person,
oh no ! You have not the heart of a mouse
you have not the courage for that !'

She spoke with so much vehemence, her eyes
flashing, the colour rising in her cheeks, that
Walter could not say a word in his own defence
and, besides, what was there to say ? So far
was he from having the courage to broach the
subject in his own person, that when it had been
begun by Rochford he had not been able to

bear it, but had rushed away. He sat silent
while she thus burst forth upon him, gazing at
her as she towered over him in her indignation.
He had seldom seen her in daylight, never so-close,
and never in this state of animation and
passion.

His heart was wrung, but his imagination was
on fire. She was a sort of warrior-maiden  a
Britomart, a Florida. Her eyes blazed. Her
lip, which was so full of expression, quivered
with energy. To think that anyone should
dare to think her beneath them I  of a lower
sphere !  which was what he supposed his
own family w ould do when they knew ; whereas
she was a kind of goddess  a creature made of
fire and flame. To brave his father, with her
standing by to back him ; to deceive a registrar
about a miserable matter of age six months
more or less  Avhat did these matter? What
did anything matter in comparison with her ? 
in comparison with pleasing her, with doing
what she wished to be done ? He was a little
afraid of her as she stood there, setting the very
atmosphere on fire. If she ever belonged ta

him, became his familiar in every act of his life,
might there not arise many moments in which
he should be afraid of what she might think or
say ? This thought penetrated him underneath
the fervour of admiration in his soul, but it did
not daunt him or make him pause.

He said, ' It is true I did not tell my father
first. It did not come into my head. I can't
be sure now that it's the thing to do. But when
Rochford said what he did I told him it was so.
It is the first time,' said Walter, with a little
emotion, 'that I ever set myself against my
father. It may come easier afterwards, but it's
something to do it the first time. Perhaps
you've never done it, though you are braver
than I.'

She laughed loudly with a contempt that
hurt him.

Never done it ! Never done anything else,
you mean! I never got on with my mother
since I was a baby ; and father, I never had any
at least, I never saw him. Well, so you spoke
up boldly, and said  what did you say V

Oh, don't bother me !' he cried. * How can

I tell what I said ? And now I've come away.
I have left home, Emmy. I am ready to go
with you, dear, anywhere  if you like, to the
end of the world.'

I've no wish for that,' she said, vith a softer
laugh. ' I'm going to London ; that's quite
enough for me.'

Well,' cried the lad, ' Til go dth you there ;
and all can be settled  everything  as you will.
It can be nothing wrong that is done for you.'

Oh, you're thinking of the licence again,'
she said ; ' never mind that. I've been thinking
too ; and you can't have your money till you're
twenty-one, don't you know? Swearing will
do you no good there  they want certificates
and all sorts of things. And of course you can't
go to the end of the world, or even to London,
without any money. So you must just wait
and see what happens. Perhaps something will
take place before then that will clear you altogether
from me.'

He Hastened to the first part of this with
mingled calm and alarm. To wait these six
months, could he have seen her every day.

would not have disturbed Walter much, notwithstanding
the blaze of boyish passion which
had lighted up all the world to him. The idea
of a new life, an entire revolution of all the circumstances
round him, and the tremendous
seriousness of marriage, had given him a thrill
of almost alarm. It was a plunge which he
was ready to take, and yet which appalled him.
And when she said that he could not have his
money till he was twenty-one, a sensation half
of annoyance, yet more than half of content,
came over his soul. He could bear it well
enough if only he could see her every day ; but,
when she added that threat about the possibility
of something happening, Walter's heart
jumped up again in his breast.

What can happen V he said. ' Dear, nothing
shall happen. If you are going to London, I'll
go too  I must be near where you are  I've no
home to go back to. London will be the best ;
it's like the deep sea, everybody says. Nobody
will find me there.'

You must not be too sure of that. Sir Edward
Penton's son could be found anywhere. They

will put your arrival iu the papers, don't you
know ?  "At Mivart's, Mr. Walter Penton, from
the family seat." '

She broke off with a laugh. Walter, gazing
at her, was entirely unaware what she meant.
The fashionable intelligence of the newspapers,
though his mother might possibly give an eye
to it, was a blank to him ; and, when she met
his serious impassioned look, the girl herself was
affected by it. It was so completely sincere
and true that her trifling nature was impressed
in spite of everything. She despised him in
many ways, though she was not without a
certain liking for him. She was contemptuous
of his ignorance, of the self-abandonment which
made him ready to follow her wherever she
went, even of his passion for herself.

Emmy was very philosophical, nay, a little
cynical in her views. She was ready to say and
believe that there were many prettier girls than
herself within Walter's reach, and the idea that
he cared for anything but her prettiness did not
occur to this frank young woman. But the
look of absolute sincerity in the poor boy's eyes

VOL. III. F

touched her in spite of herself. She put her
hands on his shoulders with a momentary mute
caress, which meant sudden appreciation, sudden
admiration, like that with which an elder
sister might have regarded the generous impulse
of a boy ; then withdrew laughing from
the closer approach which Walter, blushing to
his hair, and springing to his feet, ventured
upon in response.

No, no, she cried, * run away now. You can
come back later ; I'm very busy, I've got my
packing to look after, and a hundred things todo
 there's a dear boy, run away now.'

'I am not a boy, at least not to you,' he
cried, ' not to you ; you must not send me
away.'

But I must, and I do. How can I get my
things ready with you hanging about? Runaway,
run away, do ; and you can come back
later, after it's dark  not till after it's dark.
And then  and then ' she said.

He obeyed her after a while, moved by the
vague beatitude of that anticipation : ' And
then ' Nothing but the highest honour and

tenderness was in the yoimg man's thoughts.
He did not know indeed what to do when he
should reach London with that companion,
where he could take her, how arrange matters
for her perfect security and welfare until the
moment when he should be able to make her
his wife. But somehow, either by her superior
knowledge, or by that unfailing force of pure
and honest purpose which Walter felt must
always find the right way, this should be done.

He went away from her cheered and inspired.
But when he had got out of sight of the cottage
he was not clear what to do for the long interval
that must elapse ; home he could riot go 
where should he go ? He thought over the
question with the icy blast in his face as he
turned towards the east. And then he came to
a sudden resolution, not indeed consciously inspired
by Emmy, but which came from her
practical impulse. In another mood, at another
stage, her suggestion about his money might
have shocked and startled him.

It seemed now only a proof of her superior
wisdom and good sense, the perfection of mind

f2

which he felt to be in her as well as the sweetness
of manner and speech, the feeling, the sentiment,
all the fine qualities for which he gave
her credit, and for which he adored her, not
only for the beauty in which alone she believed.
And if he was about to do this bold and splendid
thing, to carry off the woman he loved, and
marry her by whatever means  and are not all
means sanctified by love?  surely, certainly,
whatever else might be necessary, he would
want money.

Having made up his mind on this point, Walter
buttoned his coat, and set off" for Reading
like an arrow from a bow. There he managed
to dine With great appetite, which would have
been a comfort to his mother had she known it,
and had an interview with Mr. Rochford, the
solicitor, on the subject of the money which
had been left to him (as he preferred to think)
by old Sir Walter, the result of which was that
he got with much case a sum of fifty pounds
(to Walter a fortune in itself), with which in
his pocket he walked back with a tremendous
sense of guilty elation, excitement, and trouble.

He lingered on the road until after dark, as she
had said, until, as he remembered so acutely,
the hour of the evening meal at home, when
the family Twould be all gathering, and everyone
asking, Where is Wat? He had rebelled
before against the coercion of that family meal.
This time it drew him with a kind of lingering
desire which he resisted, he who before had
half despised himself for obeying the habit and
necessity of it. He went to his old post under
the hedge, not knowing whether Emmy wished
her departure A\dth him to be known. For himself
he did not care. If everybody he knew
were to appear, father and mother, and all the
authorities to whom he had ever been subject,
he would have taken her hand and led her away
before their faces. So he said to himself as he
waited in the cold, half indignant, at that wonderful
moment of his fate, that any concealment
should be necessary.

The cottage was all dark ; there was not
even a light in the upper window, such as was
sometimes there, to make him aware that she
looked for him. Not a glimmer of light and

not a sound. The cottage seemed like a place
of the dead. It seemed to him so much more
silent than usual that he took fright after a
while, and this, in addition to his feeling that
the time for secrecy was over, emboldened him
in his impatience. He went up to the cottage
door and knocked repeatedly more and more
loudly after a while, with a sensation of alarm.
Was it possible that old deaf Mrs. Rochford
was alone in the house 1 He had time to get
into a perfect fever of apprehension before he
heard a heavy step coming from behind, and
the door was opened to him by Rochford himself,
who filled up the whole of the little
passage. The old man had a candle in his
hand.

'What, is it you, Mr. Walter?' he cried,
astonished.

'Where is she!' said Walter. * What have
you done with her? Will you tell her I am
here V

He could not speak of her familiarly by her
name to this man. But Rochford had no such
delicacy ; he stared Walter in the face, looking

at him across the flame of the candle, which
waved and flickered in the night air.

'Emmy!' he said. 'Why, Mr. AValter, she's
gone hom's ago !'

Gone ! Where has she gone ? You've driven
her away. Some one has been here and driven
her away !'

Ay, Mr. Walter ! The fly at the  Penton
Arms " as she ordered herself to catch the two-o'clock
train  that's what drove her away, and
thankful we was to be quit of her ; and so
should you be, my young gentleman, if you was
wise. She's a little '

Hold your tongue !' cried Walter. ' Who
has driven her away ? Is it my father ?  is it 
Some one has been here to interfere. Silence !
If you were not an old man I'd knock you
down.'

Silence, and asking me a dozen questions ?
That's consistent, that is ! There's been nobody
here  not a soul. She's gone as she intended.
She told my old woman as soon as she heard
I'd been down at the house. I didn't believe
her, but she's kept her word. All the better for

yon, Mr. Walter, if you only could see it ; all
the better, sir. She's not the same as you

think. She's '

Silence 1' cried Walter again. ' I don't believe
she has gone away at all ; you are making
up a story; you are trying to deceive me !'

At this old Rochford opened the door wider

and bid him enter, and Walter, with eyes which

were lot and painful, as if the blood had got into

them, stared in, not knowing what he did. He

had no desire to investigate. He knew well

enough that it was true. She had sent him out

of the way and then she had gone. She had not

thought him worth the trouble. She had wanted

to get rid of him. This sudden blow awoke no

angry flush of pride, as it ought to have done.

He felt no blame of her in his mind ; instead, he

asked himself what he had done to disgust her

with him. It must be something he had done.

He had disgusted her with his folly  with his

hesitation about transgressing any puritanical

habits of thought for her sake : and then by his

talk about his home* He remembered her

flash of disappointment, of contempt, when he

had owned that it was not he who had told his
father. Of course she had despised him, how
could he think otherwise ? She was ready to
trust herself to him, and he had not been strong
enough to make the least sacrifice for her. He
turned and went away from Rochford's door
without a word.

And after that he did not know very well how
he got through the weary hours. He walked
to the railway-station and prowled all about
with a forlorn sort of hope that she might have
missed her train. And then quite suddenly it
occurred to him, having nothing else to do, that
he might go home. He went, as has been seen,
to his room in the dark, and sent his mother
away with an entreaty to be left alone. He was
not touched by his mother's voice, or her touch
or blessing. He was impatient of them, his
mind being full of other things. His mind,
indeed, was full of Emmy  full to bursting. It
might be well for him that she was gone, if he
could have thought so. He half agreed to that
in his soul. But he would not think so. Had
he earned her ois triumphantly his mind

would have been full of a hundred tremors, but
to lose her now was more than he could bear.
He lay thinking it all over, longing fur the
morning, in the dark, without candle or any
other comfort, sleeping now and then, waking
only to a keener consciousness. And then he
became aware, by some change in the chill,
for there was none in the light, that it was
morning.

He got up in the dark  he had not undressed,
but had been lying on the bed with the coverlet
drawn over him in his morning clothes. It was
very cold and blank, the skies all gloom, the
river showing one pale gleam and no more.
He got up as quietly as he could, and stole
downstairs and opened stealthily the house-door.
No one was stirring, not even the servants,
though in so full a house they Avere
always early. The fresh morning air blew in
his face and refreshed him. He felt his fifty
pounds in his pocket. He scarcely thought of
the misery he would leave behind him. Long
enough, he said to himself, he had been bound
by the family, now his own life was in question.

aud lie must act for himself. There was a train
at half-past six which he could catch. How
different it was from his night drive so short a
time ago I Then he was acting reluctantly for
others, now Willingly for himself. The cold air
blew in his face with a dash of rain in it. He
shut the gate quietly not to make a noise, but
never looked back.

CHAPTER V.

THE LOST SON.

The parents respected poor Wat's seclusion,
his misery and trouble, though it was so hard
to keep away from him ; not to go and talk to
him, remonstrating or consoling; not to carry
him a tray, to implore him to eat a little. They
resisted all these impulses: the last, perhaps,
was the most difficult. Lady Penton had
to call to her all the forces of her mind, to
strengthen herself by every consideration of
prudence, before she could overcome the burning
desire which came back and back, with renewed
temptation, a hundred times in the course of
the evening to take up that tray. A few sandwiches,
a little claret, or some beer would have

done him uo harm ; and who could tell whether
he had eaten enough to sustain his strength in
the course of the day ? But, what with her own
self-reminders that it was wiser to leave him to
himself, what with the half-taunts, half-remonstrances
of her husband,  ' If I am not to say
a word to him, which I believe is nonsense,
why should you V  holding herself, as it were,
with both hands, she managed to refrain.

The first time that such a breach comes into
a family  that one member of it withdraws in
darkness and silence into his oti room, not to
be disturbed, not to be found fault with, not
even to be comforted  till tomorrow  how
keen is the pang of the separation, how poignant
the sense of his solitude and anguish ! In
such circumstances it is the culprit generally
who suffers least. The grieved and perhaps
angered parents, pondering what to say to him,
how to do what is best for him, how not to say
too much, afraid to make the fault appear too
grave, afraid to make too little of it, casting
about in their anxious souls what to do : the
brothers and sisters looking on in the background,

questioning each other with bated
breath, their imaginations all busy with that
too touching, too suggestive picture of the
offender in his room, left to himself, eating
nothing, communicating with nobody  how
dreadful when it is for the first time ! what a
heartbreaking and hopeless wretchedness when
custom has made it common, and there is no
longer any confidence in remonstrance or appeal.
It is generally some evident breach of the proprieties
or minor morals that is the cause of such
a domestic event. But this time nobody knew
what Walter had done. What had he done? it
could not be anything wrong. He had quarrelled
with father : to be sure that was as though the
heavens had fallen : but yet it could only be a
mistake. Father no doubt had been impatient ;
Wat had been affronted. They had not waited,
either of them, to explain. The girls made it
clear to each other in this way. At all events,
it was all over now. No doubt poor Wat
had spent a miserable day : but no one would
remind him of it by a word, by so much as a

look, and it was all over, and would be remembered
no more.

The parents got up in the morning with
many a troubled thought. They asked each
other what it would be best to say. Perhaps
it would be wisest to say as little as possible :
perhaps only to point out to him that, in his
position, now truly the heir of Penton, any
premature matrimonial project would be ruinous
: that he was far too young ; that in any
case, supposing the lady were the most eligible
person in the world, it would lee necessary
to wait.

If that is what he is thinking of,' said Sir
Edward.

What else could he be thinking of?' cried
Lady Penton.

Or if perhaps it was only a passing folly, a
foolish little flirtation, nothing serious at all?
Then perhaps a few words only, to remind him
that in his position one must not do such
things, one must not lead a silly girl to form
expectations

Oh, bother the silly girl !' said Sir Edward ;
what are her expectations to us ? It is Wat 1
am thinking of.'

Dear Edward,' said the mother, ' he will be
far, far more likely to see the folly of it if you
show him that it might have a bad effect upon
another.'

At this Sir Edward shook his head, thinking
that his wife did not here show her usual good
sense, but he made no objection in words, and
finally it was decided between them that as
little as possible was to be said, nothing at all
at first, and that the poor boy was to be allowed
to have his breakfast in peace.

But at breakfast Walter did not appear. It
was thought at first that he was late on purpose,
waiting perhaps till the children had finished 
till he might have a hope of being alone ; or at
least, if he had to face his father, to secure that
no one else should be present when he was
called to account. By-and-by, however, a
thrill of alarm began to be felt; and then came
a terrible disclosure which froze their very
blood  Gardener coming to his work very early

in the morning bad met Mr. Walter leaving the
house. He had on his big greatcoat and a bag
in his hand, and he was in a great hurry, as a
man might be who was bent on catching the
seven o'clock train.

Walter's room was searched at once in case
he should have left a note or anything to
explain : but there was not a scrap of explanation.
He was gone, that was clear. He
had taken some linen, a change of dress in
his bag ; his drawers were left open, and all the
contents thrown about, as is usual when a man
selects for himself a few articles of dress to take
with him. The look of these drawers earned
dismay to his mother's heart. He was gone.
Where had he gone ? So young, so little accustomed
to independent action, so ignorant of
the world I Where had the boy gone 1 what
had happened to him? Lady Penton recollected
after the event, as we so often do, that
Walter had made no response to her suggestions
of what was to be said and done tomorrow.
He had answered ' Good-night, mother,' and no
more ; that was no answer. He had never said

VOL. III. G

he would accept her advice tomorrow, that he
would discuss what had happened, or hear what
his father had to say. ' Good-night, mother,' that
was all he had said. And oh ! she might have
known, when he eluded the subject in this way
she might have known ! She ought to have
been on her guard.

Sir Edward said very little; his face grew
dark with anger and indignation, and he walked
off at once in the direction of the village without
saying where he meant to go. All at once
from their happiness and unsuspecting peace
the family plunged into that depth of dismay
and misery which comes with the first great
family anxiety. It seemed to them all who
were old enough to understand anything about
it that a great shame and horror had come into
the midst of them. Walter had left home without
a word ; they did not know where he was,
or why he had gone, or in whose company.
Could anything be more terrible ? Just grown
to man's estate, and he had disappeared, and no
one knew where he had gone !

The period that followed is beyond description

in these pages. Out of the clear serenity
of innocent life this blameless household fell 
as into an abyss of terror and shame, of new
experiences unthought of, and new conditions.
The girls, with a gasp, behind backs, scarcely
daring to look at each other, heard their mother
say to Mab, who was so great an aggravation
of their trouble, that Walter had gone  to town
on business ; that he had preparations to make
and things to get before he went to Oxford.
Lady Penton said this in a voice which scarcely
faltered, looking the visitor, who was so sadly
out of place in the midst of the agitated company,
in the face all the time.

Oh, to be sure,' said Mab, ' they always do.
Any excuse is good enough for gentlemen, don't
you think. Lady Penton? they are always so
pleased to get to town.'

Lady Penton looked quite gratefully at the
girl.

Yes,' she said ; ' they all like it.'

And so should I,' said little Mab, ' if I were
a boy.'

It was not of any importance what little Mab

g2

said, and yet it was astonishing how it comforted
Lady Penton. She said to the girls
afterwards that having so quietly as they had
all done made people disposed to make mountains
out of mole-hills.

But you see that little girl thinks it quite a
common sort of thing she said.

But Sir Edward's gloomy face was not a
thing that was capable of any disguise. He was
in movement the whole day long. He went all
about, taking long walks, and next day went upto
London, and was absent from morning tonight.
He never said anything, nor did the
girls venture to question him. There seemed
to have grown a great difference between them
a long, long interval separating him from his
daughters. He had long private conversations
with his wife when he came back ; indeed, she
would withdraw into the book-room when she
saw him coming, as if to be ready for him. And
they would shut themselves up and talk for an
hour at a time, with a continuous low murmur of
voices.

Oh, mother, tell us,' Ally or Anne would

cry when they could fid her alone for a moment,
* is there any news ? has father found
anything out?' to which Lady Penton would
reply, with a shake of her head,

Your father hopes to find him very soon. Oh,
don't ask questions I I am not able to answer
you,' she would say.

This seemed to go on for ages  for almost
a lifetime  so that they began to forget how
peaceful their lives had been before ; and to go
into Walter's room, which they did constantly,
and look at his bed, made up in cold order and
tidiness, never disturbed. To see it all so tidy,
not even a pair of boots thrown about or a tie
flung on the table, made their hearts die within
them. It was as if Walter were dead  almost
worse. It seemed more dreadful than death to
think that they did not know where he was.

And Mab stayed on for one long endless
week. Some one of them had always to be
with her, trying to amuse her ; talking, or
making an effort to talk. Lady Penton was
the one who succeeded best. She would let
the girl chatter to her for an hour together, and

never miss saying the right thing in the right
place, or giving Mab the appropriate smile and
encouragement. How could she do it 1 the girls
wondered and asked each other. Did she like
that little chatter? How did she bear it? Did
it make her forget ? Or, finally  a suggestion
Which they hardly dared to make  did mother
not care so very much ? Was that possible ?

When one is young and very young, one
cannot believe that the older people suffer as
one feels one's self to suffer. It seems impossible
that they can do it. They go steadily on and
order dinner every day, and point out to the
housemaid when she has not dusted as she
ought. This suggestion to the housemaid
(which they called scolding Mary) was a great
stumbling-block to the girls. They did not
understand how their mother could be very
miserable about Walter, and yet find fault, nay,
find out at all the dust upon the books. They
themselves lived in a world suddenly turned into
something different from the world they had
known, where the air kept whispering as if it
had a message to deliver, and sounds were about

the house at night as of some one coming, always
coming, who never came. They had not known
what the mystery of the darkness was before, the
great profundity of night in which somewhere
their brother might be wandering homeless, in
what trouble and distress who could tell ? or
what aching depths of distance was in the great
full staring daylight, through which they gazed
and gazed and looked for him, but never saw
him.

How intolerable Mab became with her chatter :
how they chafed even at their mother's self-command,
and the steadiness with which she
went on keeping the house in order, it would be
difficult to say. Their father, though they
scarcely ventured to speak to him in his self-absorbed
and resentful gloom, had more of their
sympathy. He not only suffered, but looked as
if he suffered. He lost his colour, he lost his
appetite, he was restless, incapable of keeping
still. He could no longer bear the noise of the
children, and sickened at the sight of food.
And there was Mab all the time, to whom Lady
Pentou had told that story about Walter, but

who, they felt sure, knew better, having
learned to read their faces, and to see the
restrained misery, the tension of suspense. Oh,
if this spectator, this observer, with her quick
eyes, which it was so difficult to elude, would
but go away !

At last it was announced that the Russell
Pentons were coming to fetch her, an event
which the household regarded with mingled
relief and alarm. Sir Edward's face grew
gloomier than ever.

They have come to spy out the nakedness
of the land,' he said ; ' Alicia will divine
what anxiety we are in, and she will not be
sorry.'

'Oh, hush, Edward,' said his wife; 'we do
not want her to be sorry. Why should she be
sorry ? she knows nothing:'

You think so,' he cried ; ' but depend upon
it everybody knows.'

Why should everybody know ? Nobody
shall know from me; and the girls will betray
nothing. They know nothing, poor children.
If you will only try to look a little

cheerful yourself, and keep up appearances

I' he said, with something of the
same feeing as the girls had, that she could not
surely care so much.

Was it possible that she did not care ? But
nevertheless he tried to do something to
counteract that droop of his mouth, and make
his voice a little more flexible and natural, when
the sound of the wheels on the gravel told that
the Pentons had come. Meanwhile Mab had
gone, attended by the sisters, to make her
preparations for going. They had packed her
things for her, an office to which she was not
accustomed, while she mourned over her departure,
and did their best not to show her that this
was a feeling they did not share.

Mab lingered a little after the carriage
arrived. She wanted to show her sympathy,
though it was not quite easy to see how that
was to be done. She remained silent for a
minute or so, and then she said,

I haven't liked to say anything, but Fve
been very, very sorry ;' giving Ally a sudden
kiss as she spoke.

The two girls looked at each other, as was
their wont, and Anne, who was always the most
prompt, asked,

Sorry for what V

'Do you really, really not know where he
is V said Mab, without pausing to reply. ' I
think I could tell you where he is. He is in
town with  some one '

Some one?' they both cried, with a sudden
pang of excitement, as though they were on the
verge of a discovery ; for unless she knew something
though how could she know anything?
sit seemed impossible that she could speak
so.

Oh, the one he went out every night to see.
There must have been somebody. When they
go out every night like that it is always to
see  some one,' she said, nodding her head in
the certainty of her superior knowledge of the
world.

Oh, how do you know? You are mistaken
if you think that Walter  how can you know
about such things V

Because I am Httle,' said Mab, ' and not very

old, that's not to say that I haven't been a great
deal about: and I've heard people talking.
They pretend they don't talk before girls. I
suppose they think they don't. They stop
themselves just enough to make you want to
find out, and then they forget you are there,
and say all sorts of things. That's where he is,
you may be sure : and he will come back by-and-by,
especially if he wants money. You
needn't be afraid. That is what they all do.
Oh, listen ; they are calling us from downstairs !
I am so sorry I must go : I wish I could stay : I
like this better than any place I ever stayed at,
and you've all been so kind. Write to me and
tell me, will you, all about it ? I shall be
anxious to know. But don't make yourselves
miserable, for he will come back when he has-spent

his money, or when Yes, we are

coming I We are coming I Ally, mind you
write and tell me. I shall want so much to
know.'

They tried to interrupt her again and again,
to tell her she was mistaken ; that Walter had
only gone to town ; that they were not anxious.

or ignorant where he was, or unhappy about
him : with much more to the same effect ; but
Mab's cheerful certainty that she was right
overpowered their faltering affirmations, of
which she took no notice. She kissed them
both with enthusiasm in the midst of her little
harangue, and ran on with expressions of her
regret as they went downstairs.

Oh, I wish Lady-fenton would have me for
good,' Mab said ; ' but you don't care for me as
I do for you.'

Meanwhile, in the drawing-room, Lady Penton
was receiving her visitors with an eager cordiality
that was scarcely consistent with her nature,
and which was meant to show not only that she
was entirely at her ease, but that her husband's
gloom, which he had tried to shake off, but not
very successfully, did not mean anything. Asa
matter of fact, the Russell Pentons, knowing
nothing of the circumstances of Walter's disappearance,
were quite unaware of any effort,
or any reason why an effort should be made.
They interpreted the husband's half-resentful
looks  for that was the natural aspect of distress

with Edward Pentou  and the excessive courtesy
and desire to please, of his wife, as fully
accounted for by the position towards each
other in which the two families stood. Why
should Edward Penton be resentful ? He had
got his rights, those rights upon which he had
stood so strongly when his Cousin AHcia had
paid her previous visit. She was ready to put
a private interpretation of her own on everything
she saw. He had resisted then her
proposals and overtures, although afterwards
he had been anxious to accede to them ; and
now he was disappointed and vexed that the
bargain against which he had stood out at first
had come to nothing, and that she would not
relieve him from the burden of the expensive
house which he had first refused to give up and
then been so anxious to be quit of. How inconsistent
! How feeble ! And the ife endeavouring
with her little fuss of politeness to make up,
perhaps thinking that she might succeed where
her husband had failed ! This was how Mrs.
Russell Penton interpreted the aspect of the
poor people whose object was to conceal their-unhappiness

from all eyes, and that nobody
might have a word to say against the boy who
was racking their hearts.

I have been sorry to leave Mab so long, to
give you the trouble,' Mrs. Russell Penton said,
with her stiff dignity. ' Her uncle, in his consideration
for me, did not think of your
inconvenience, I fear.'

There has been no inconvenience. We are
80 many that one more or less does not matter.
We have treated her without ceremony, as one
of the family '

'And made her very happy, evidently,' said
Russell Penton. ' She is very unwilling to come
away.'

And then there was a pause. That Mab
Russell, the heiress, should be treated as one of
the family by these poor Pentons was to Alicia
a reversal of every rule which she could scarcely
accept without a protest.

'It must have been a glimpse of life very
different from anything she has been accustomed
to,' she said at last.

Yes, poor little thing I with no brothers or
sisters of her own.'

She has compensations,' said Russell Penton,
with a glimmer of humour in his eyes. But
Lady Penton looked at him without any
response in hers. He was so surprised at this,
and bewildered that Mab's value should not be
known, that involuntarily, out of the commotion
in his own mind, he put a question which seemed
full of meaning to the troubled listeners. ' I
don't see your son,' he said.

The father and mother exchanged a miserable
look.

It is known, then,' their eyes said to each
other ; and in spite of herself the blood rushed
to Lady Penton's face and then ebbed away
again, leaving her faint and pallid ; but she
made an effort at a smile.

Walter,' she said, ' is not at home. He is
going to Oxford in a month or two, and he is
away for a little.'

Taking a holiday V suggested Russell
Penton, with a curious consciousness, though

without any understanding, of trouble in the
air.

Oh, it is rather  business,' said the mother.
Sir Edward did not change that aspect of severe
gravity which he had borne all the time. He
had too much set wretchedness in his face to
change as she did. * You have been more good
to him,' she continued, glad of the excuse which
justified her trembling voice, ' more good than
words can say.'

I have no right to any credit : I only
carried out my father's wishes,' said Mrs.
Penton.

How severe her tone Alas I how clear that she
was aware that Walter, the recipient of her
kindness, had shown himself unworthy I If anything
could have made these poor people more
unhappy it was this  that their precautions
seemed useless, and their trouble known.

CHAPTER VI.

KEEPING UP APPEARANCES.

The Russell Pentons stayed a long time  at
least, these anxious people thought so, who
believed their visitors to be noting the signs of
their unhappiness, and forming still stronger and
stronger conclusions against their son. The
effort Lady Penton made to city on the conversation
was one of those efforts, gigantic, unappreciated,
in which women have sometimes to
make an expenditure of strength which is equal
to years of ordinary exertion. Who can tell the
burden it was to talk, to smile, to exhaust all
the trivial subjects that occurred to her, to keep
at a distance all those gi-ave topics which might
bring in Walter  which might lead to dis-vol.
III. H

cession of where he was or how employed?
She saw, so to speak, half-a-mile off those tendencies
of conversation which might lead to him,
and, with a sudden leap, would get away from
these to another and another theme, which each
in its turn would have to be dismissed and
avoided.

All roads lead to Rome,' says the proverb :
and, when there is a certain subject which it is
desirable to avoid, all the streamlets of conversation,
by some curious tendency, go to that
with infallible force. Lady Penton had to go
through a series of mental gymnastics to avoid
it  to keep her visitors from any thought of
Walter  to hide him, or rather to hide the
terrible blank in the house where he ought to
have been.

Had he been in his usual place, the conversation
would never have touched him ; and, as a
matter of fact, the Russell Pentons did not think
of him any more than they did of Horry in the
nursery, a stray shout from whom could sometimes
be heard, leaving no one in any doubt as to his
whereabouts. But the mother, flying from subject

to subject, talking as she had never been
known to talk in her life before, and her
taciturn husband, who said not a word that he
could help saying  both felt that their misery
was open and evident, that the Russell Pentons
were saying in their hearts, ' Poor people !' or
making reflections that the boy's upbringing-must
have been bad indeed when he had ' gone
wrong ' at such an early age. Lady Penton
felt instinctively that this was what must be
going through Alicia's mind. The childless
woman always says so  it is one of the commonplaces
of morals. If he had been brought up ashe
ought, he would not have gone wrong. This
and hundred other things went buzzing through
the poor mother's head, confusing her as she
talked and talked.

Oh,' she said to herself, ' it is better that they
should think that !  better blame us  blame
me, who have been over-indulgent, perhaps, or
over-severe  over-anything, so long as they do
not blame him!'

But the father was not so disinterested ;
he was angry as well as miserable. He would

h2

have had Walter bear his own guilt; he
would not allow those critics who had never
had a son to say that it was the parents' fault.
So he stood with that resentment in his face,
saying so little, only making an annoyed remark
when appealed to, short, with suppressed temper
in it, while his wife smiled and ran on. How
like Edward Penton that was ! his cousin thought.
He had made a proposal to her which she, in
her pride, would not accept, and his pride
could not forgive her. Ahcia felt that she
understood it all  as well as the silly attempt of
the wife to smooth it all over and make peace
between them  as if the two Pentons did not
understand each other better than any outsider !
as if this question between them could be
smoothed away by her !

You will let me come back again V said Mab,
rubbing her little cheek like a kitten against
Lady Penton's ear. ' I will never go away
unless you say that I may come back.'

What a threat V said Russell Penton. ' In
order to get rid of you, Mab, the promise will
have to be made.'

Not to get rid of her : we don't want to get
rid of her. Yes, my dear, certainly, as soon  as
soon as we are settled, when the house is not so
dull '

It isn't dull, no one can be dull with you. 1
will tell you what I want in a whisper. I want
to come and stay altogether ; I want you to have
me altogether,' said Mab, in the confidence of
her wealth.

My dear I' cried Lady Penton, faltering. In
spite of her preoccupations she was a little
alarmed. She put it off with a kiss of farewell.
You must come as often as you like,' she
said. ' It is sweet of you to 'ish to come. We
shall always be glad to see you, either here or 
wherever we may be.'

*At Penton,' said Mab, once more rubbing
her little head against the woman to whom
she clung. 'Uncle Russell, oh, ask her to
have me ! there is no place where I could be
so happy.*

You must come as soon as we are settled,'
said Lady Penton, in real panic, putting the
supplicant away.

Alicia had turned during this too tender and
prolonged leave-taking, with a little indignation,
to the master of the house. She had never herself
either attracted or been attracted to Mab,
and she felt resentful, annoyed, even jealous 
though she cared nothing for the little thing and
her whims  of this sudden devotion. She stood
by her cousin, who was resentful and indignant
too.

Edward,' she said to him, * we needn't quarrel,
at least. I know you meant well in offering me
Penton. Don't be displeased because I couldn't
accept it  I couldn't, from anyone, unless it had
been my right.'

Penton ! do you think of nothing but Penton V
he cried, suddenly, with an incomprehensible
impatience of the subject  that subject which
had once seemed so important, which appeared
to him so small now.

I speak for the sake of peace,' she said,
coldly ;* that need not stand between us now.
AVe go away in a week. The things I mean to
remove will be gone within a month. What
I wish you to know is, that you may make

arrangements for your removal as soon as you
please.'

Oh, for our removal ! yes, yes,' he said,
impatiently ; ' there is no hurry about that : if
that was all one had to think of '

I am son-y that you should have other things
to think of. To me it seems very important,*
Mrs. Russell Penton said.

*Ah! you have nobody but yourself to be
concerned about,' he said. But then he met his
wife's look of warning, and added no more.

Russell Penton lingered a little behind the
rest.

Let me speak a word to you,' he said, detaining
Lady Penton ; and her heart, which had
begun to beat feebly as an end approached to
this excitement, leaped up again with an energy
which made her sick and faint. Could he know
something about Walter? might he have some
news to tell her ? Her face flushed, and then
became the colour of ashes, a change of which
he was wonderingly aware, though Without a
notion as to why it was. ' You are alarmed,' he
said, ' about '

'No, no I' she interrupted, faintly; 'not alarmed.
Oh, no, you must not think so  not frightened
at all,' but with fear pale and terrible, and
suspense Which was desperate, in every like of
her countenance.

Russell Penton himself grew frightened too.

'There is nothing to alarm you,' he said,
about little Mab.'

Oh !' the breath which had almost failed her
came back. A sudden change came over her
face : she smiled, though her smile was ghastly.
About Mab V she said.

It is alarming, the way in which she flings
herself upon you ; but you must let me explain.
I see that you think her just a little girl like any
other, and her proposal to come and stay with
you altogether is enough to make even the most
gen eros pause. But that is not what she means.
Lady Penton. She is very rich ; she is a little
heiress.'

The words did not seem to convey much significance
to Lady Penton's bewildered soul.

A little heiress,' she repeated, vaguely, as if
that information threw no light upon the matter.

Was she stupid? he asked himself, or ridiculously
disinterested, altogether unlike the
other women who have sons ?

Very rich  really with a great fortune  but
no home. She is too yoimg to live by herself.
She has never developed the domestic affections
before. 1 should like very well to keep
her, but it would be a burden on Alicia. Will
you think it over ? She has evidently set her
heart on you, and it would do her so much good
to be with people she cared for. There would
of course be a very good allowance, if you will
let me say so. Do think it over.'

They had reached the door by this time,
where Sir Edward was solemnly putting his
cousin into her carriage. Mr. Russell Penton
pressed Lady Penton's hand with a little meaning
as he said good-bye.

Walter might have a try too,' he said, with
a laugh, as he turned away.

Walter might have a try. A try at what ?
His mother's head swam. She put her arm
through that of Anne, who stood near her, and
kept smiling, waving her hand to Mab in the

carriage ; but Lady Penton scarcely saw what
she was looking at. There was something
moving, dazzling before her eyes  the horses,
the glitter of the panels, the faces, flickered
before her ; and then came a rush of sound, the
horses' hoofs, the carriage wheels grinding the
gravel, and they were gone. Oh, how thankful
she felt when they were gone ! The girls led
her in, frightened by her failing strength, and
then Sir Edward came, as gloomy as ever, and
leaned over her.

I don't think they knew,' he said ; ' I don't
think they had heard anything.'

Lady Penton repeated to herself several times
over, ' Walter might have a try,' and then she
too burst forth,

No, Edward, thank God ! I am sure they did
not know.'

He shook his head, though he was so much
relieved, and said, half-reluctant to confess that
he was relieved,

But, if it lasts much longer, they must know.
How can it be kept from them, and from everybody,
if it lasts much longer T

The girls looked at each other, but did not
speak ; for they were aware, though no one
else was, that Mab hew ; and could it be supposed
that that little thing, who did not belong
to there, who had no reason for sharing their
troubles, would keep it to herself and never
tell?

They had all thought it would be a relief to
be rid of the little spectator and critic, the
stranger in the house, and for a time it was so.
The rest of the afternoon after she was gone the
girls and their mother spent together talking it
all over. They had never been able uninterruptedly
to talk it over before, and there was a
certain painful enjoyment in going over every
detail, in putting all the facts they knew together,
and comparing their views. Sir Edward
had gone out to take one of his long solemn
walks, from which he always came in more
gloomy, more resentful than ever. He was
going up to town once more tomorrow. Once
more I He had gone up almost every day, but
never had discovered anything, never had found
the lost. And in his absence, and freed from

Mab, whom they had not been able to get rid
of at any moment, what a long, long consultation
they had, talking over everything, except
what Mab had suggested. She had said it with
the intention of consoling, but the girls could
not repeat it to each other, or breathe to their
mother the suggestion she had made.

They were not educated to that point. That
their brother should have married foolishly,
made an idol of some girl who was not his equal,
and followed her out into the unknown world,
was dreadful, but comprehensible ; but that he
should come back by-and-by when he wanted
money  oh, no, no ! What they imagined was
that scene so well-known to romance  the foolish
young pair coming back, stealing in, he
leading her, ashamed yet proud of her, to ask
his parents' forgiveness. The girls went over
the details of this scene again and again as soon
as they had heard all that their mother had to
tell them.

She must be beautiful,' they said ; ' she maybe
nice  oh, she must be nice, or Wat would
not love her !'

Ob, my dears,' cried Lady Penton, * how can
we tell? It is not good girls and nice girls who
lead young men away from their duty.'

But, mother, if they love each other I' said
Ally, blushing over all her ingenuous, innocent
countenance, with the awe and wonder of that
great thing.

Lady Penton did not say anything more, but
she shook her head, and then it was for the first
time that there came over her the poignant
suggestion of that ' might have been ' which she
had not taken into her mind till now. Walter
might have a try ; little Mab with her heiress-ship
had been thrown at his head, as people
say; and what it might have been had these two-taken
to each other  had a great fortune been
poured into Penton I

Lady Penton had never known what a great
piece of good fortune was ; she was not one unexpected
such things. The very advantages of
it, the desirableness, made it to her temperate
soul the less likely. It never could have come
to pass, all the contrarieties of nature were-against
it ; but still, when she thought that they

had spent so many days under the same roof,
and might have spent so many more, and how
suitable it would have been, and what a good
thing for Walter, it was not wonderful that she
should sigh. But that was the course of nature,
it was the way of human affairs. It was too
good ever to come true.

After the first night, the relief of Mab's departure
was not so evident to them. She had
been a restraint, not only upon their conversations
and consultations, but on the entire abandonment
of their life and thoughts to this
anxiety and distress. They had been compelled
on her account to bear the strain, to make a
struggle against it. Now there was no longer
that motive. Night and day their ears were
intent on every sound ; there was always a
watcher at the window in the staircase, which
commanded the ascending path to the village,
a sort of look-out woman ready to dash downstairs
and give notice if by chance  ah ! no, by
the blessing of God  the wanderer might be
seen coming home.

The watch here was furtive, lest the servants

should note, but it was continual ; one or
another was always hungering about, looking outwith
eyes keen and sharp with anxiety  * busy
in the distance shaping things, that made the
heart beat thick.' And so the da's passed on,
languishing, with dark nights so endless-long in
which the anxious watchers could hear only and
could not see.

CHAPTER VII.

ally's part.

Sir Edward Penton went to London most
days, but he never found out anything. He
was not the sort of man to act as an amateur
detective, and he would not appeal to the professionals
in that capacity. He was an old-fashioned
man, and it seemed to him that * to
set the police after ' his son was an indignity
impossible. He could not do it. He tramped
about himself, yearning, angry, very tender
underneath, thinking if he could only see Walter,
meet him, which always seems so likely to
country people, in the street, that all would be
well.

He went to all the places Rochford could tell

him of  to Emmy's mother, a faded old actress
of the lower class, whose faded graces, and her
vivacity, and what had been, or had been supposed
to be, her fascination, made poor Sir
Edward's heart sink into his boots. But she
professed to know nothing of her daughter's
movements, and nothing at all of any gentleman.
There had been a gentleman, she allowed,
a young man connected with business  but it
had been to escape from his addresses that her
child had gone to the country ; and Emmy was
far too high-minded to keep company with anyone
of whom her mother did not know.

In his despair, Sir Edward even sought out
the shop in which this gentleman in his business
hours was to be found, and had an interview
with the young man whose appearance in
the village had so much alarmed and almost
disgusted Walter. No information was to be
obtained from him. He declared sullenly that
he knew nothing about the girl  yes, he had
known her, he did not deny ; he had thought
more of her than she was worth. Though it
was going against all his family, he had stuck
VOL. III. 1

to her for a long time, and would have stuck to
her as long as she had stuck to him ; but he
knew nothing about her now.

Is it money, guv'nor ; somebody left her a
fortune?' he asked at the end of the interview,
with a laugh which disconcerted Sir Edward.

This Alas almost all he had been able to do,
except tramping about the streets wherever he
could think his son was likely to go. The poor
gentleman increased his knowledge of London
in the most wonderful way during these miserable
days. He found out all kinds of back
streets and alleys, and corners of building such
as he had never remarked before, but all with
a veil over them, a mist of trouble. London in
January is dark enough even when the eyes are
not clouded with suffering and anxiety ; but,
with these added, how miserable were the chill
streets, the low skies, the yellow thickness of
the atmosphere, the hopeless throngs of unknown
men and women, always blank, always
unresponsive to those strained and troubled
eyes !

Sometimes he thought he saw before him a

slim yoimg figure, moving quickly, as Walter
might, through the crowd, and hurried vainly
after it, pursuing at a hopeless distance, only to
lose it in the ever-changing groups. Sometimes
with the corner of his eye he would catch
a glimpse of some one disappearing round a
corner, plunging into a side street, who might
be his boy. Alas ! it was always a might-be.
No happy chance brought them face to face.
Had there been no particular reason for it, they
would have met, no doubt, in the simplest way ;
but this is one of the cases in which, as daily
experience proves, those who seek do not find.
And when Sir Edward returned home after a
day so spent, the gloom he brought with him
was like a London fog descending bodily upon
the country. Probably there had been a little
deadening of trouble in the physical exertion
and gloomy expectation of these expeditions ;
but he brought an embodied darkness and
desolation home.

On one of the days of his absence Ally was
acting as a sort of sentinel in the garden : that
is, she was taking a walk, as they said, but with

l2

an eye always upon the road and the gate 
when her anxious mind was distracted by a
sound of approaching Wheels, coming, not down
the hill, but along the river bank. It was a
grey day, damp and soft, with no wind ; one of
those days Which are not unusual in the valley
of the Thames; not cold, save for the chill of
the damp ; very still ; the river winding round
the Hook in a pale and glistening link ; the sky
about the same colour, which was no colour at
all, the leafless trees rising black as if photographed
upon the grey. The river was lower
than usual at this season, though it still flowed
with a cruel motion round that little promontory
as if meaning to make that bit of vantage
ground its own some day.

Ally was very sad and quiet, walking up and
down, feeling as if life had come altogether to a
standstill save for that one thing ; nothing else
happening ; nothing else seeming very likely to
happen. That furtive little current Which had
seemed for a moment to rise in her own life had
died away. It seemed a long time since those
days when young Rochford had come so often to

Pentoii Hook. Perhaps his desire to come often
had something to do with the delay which
had so changed the face of affairs. This had
occurred to Ally more than once, and had given
her a secret feeling that it was perhaps lier
fault, but she had not felt able to regret it.

But now all that was over, and Mr. Rochford
came no longer. There was nothing for him to
come about ; and x\lly remembered, with a sort
of half pang, half shame, the reception which
had been given to his mother and sister when
they called, and the curious sense of mingled
superiority and inferiority which had overwhelmed
her in their presence. They were far
better acquainted with the world than she was ;
they were ' in society,' or, at least, had that air
of it which imposes upon simple people ; but she
was Miss Penton of Penton. She had felt then
a great though always half-ashamed pleasure in
remembering that elevation : but she had not
the same sensations now. She felt that she was
a snob (if a girl can be called a snob). She was
ungrateful, for they had been very kind to her,
and mean and petty, and everything that is most

contemptible  feeling herself, only because of
Penton (in which there was no merit) somehow
exalted above them, the solicitor's mother and
sister.

Many times since she had blushed at that incident,
and sometimes at the most inappropriate
moments ; when she woke up in the middle of
the night a flush would go over her from head
to foot, thinking of what a poor creature, what
a miserable little snob she was ; a girl-snob, far
worse than any other kind; worse than anything
Mr. Thackeray had put in his book. Ally,
like most people of her age, thought she did not
like Mr. Thackeray, who seemed to her to make
everybody look as if they had bad motives ; but
even he, so crushing as he was to a little girl's
optimism, had not gone so far in his cynical
views as to think of a snob who Alas a girl.
Perhaps she was wrong here, putting limits
which did not exist to the great humorist's
imagination, but that was what she believed.
And she was that girl-snob, which was a thing
too bad to be conceived by fancy. She had.
repented this, and she had felt, though vaguely

in the rush of other experiences, the blank that
had fallen upon that opening chapter in which
there had once seemed so much to come, but
which had, to all appearance, ended all at once
without anything coming of it. This chilled
her gentle soul, she could scarcely tell why.

How wretched that ball at Penton would
have been to her, what a painful blight upon
her girlish fancies, if it had not been for these
kind people, if it had not been for Mm.
Yes ; that was the chief point after all, though
she was ashamed to admit it to herself. It had
been a pleasant break upon the monotony of life
when he paid these frequent visits, when he
talked in that suggestive way, making her
think of things which he did not mention, raising
a soft commotion which she did not understand
in her simple being. It had been
like a chill to her to perceive that all this was
over. It was all over and done with, apparently
; it had all dropped like the falling of a
curtain over a drama just begun. She had
wanted to know how it would all end, what its
progress would be, the scenes that would follow :

and lo, no scenes had followed at all, the curtain
had come down.

How wicked and wrong, how horrid it was to
think of it at all in the midst of the great calamity
that had fallen on the family, to wish even that
mother might forget poor Wat for an hour, and
go and call, and so make up for the coldness of
Mrs. Rochford's reception ! This was a thing,
however, which Ally had never suggested, which
she thought it dreadful to have even thought of
in the present trouble. She defended herself to
herself by saying that she had not thought it  it
had only flashed across her mind without any
will of hers, which is a very different thing, as
everybody knows.

And was it possible while she wandered up
and down, always with her attention fixed on
the gate, always looking for news, for her
father's return, for a telegraph boy, for  oh, if
that might be ! for Walter himself; was it possible
that some feeling about this other matter
intruded into her mind and shared the thoughts
which should have been all devoted to her
brother ? Ally trembled a little, but could

not blame herself, for she did nothing of the
kind with her own will. She only felt a little
chill, a little blank, a wonder how that story, if
it had gone on, if the certain had not fallen so
abruptly, might have ended. It would have
been interesting to know ; a broken-off story is
tantalising, distressful  the Avorld becomes
duller when it breaks off and you iiever know
the end.

Perhaps this had floated across her mind dimly,
not interfering with the watch she was keeping,
Avhen suddenly the wheels which had been rolling
along, not disturbing her attention  for
they did not come in the direction whence news
could be expected  startled her by suddenly
stopping outside the gate. Who could it be ?
Her heart began to beat. She made a few steps
quickly towards the gate. It could not be her
father; could it be Walter bringing back this
bride ? What could it be ?

But here suddenly her heart gave another
bewildering spring. She felt her breath taken
away altogether. The vehicle had stopped
outside ; and it was young Rochford, in all the

gloss of his usual trim appearance, with the
usual flower in his coat, who came forward,
quickening his steps as he saw her. He did not
look quite as he used to look. There was a little
doubt about him, as though he did not know
how he was to be received  a little pride, as of
a man who would draw back at once if he were
discouraged.

Ally could not help making a few steps farther
to meet him. She was glad to meet him  oh,
there was no doubt of that !  and not only so,
but to feel the curtain slowly drawing up again,
the story beginning once more, gave everything
around a different aspect. She said, ' Oh, Mr.
Kochford !' with a voice that had welcome in it
as well as surprise.

I have come about some business,' he said ;
but his eyes had already asked several questions,
and seemed to derive a certain satisfaction from
the unspoken replies. He added, lowering his
voice, ' I have been on the point of coming almost
every day  but I felt as if perhaps  I
might not be welcome.'

Why f said Ally, with an astonished look,

which had no guilt in it ; for, indeed, it was not
to him, but to his mother and sister, that she had
felt herself to behave like a snob.

I scarcely know,' he said. ' I thought Sir
Edward might feel perhaps that my delay  :
but I always half felt, Miss Penton, that you 
would be rather pleased With the delay : you
and your brother.'

Yes,' she said, with a little shiver at walter's
name ; * it was wrong, perhaps, to go against my
father: but I think perhaps we were glad  a
little.'

*That has been a consolation; and then 
But I must not trouble you with all my reasons
for staying away, when most likely you never
observed that I was staying away at all.'

Ally made no reply to this speech, which was
so full of meaning. It was, indeed, so full of
evident meaning that it put her on her guard.

My father is in town,' she said, ' if it is business
; but perhaps mother  '

 I am too glad,' he said, ' to meet you first,
even for the business' sake.'

Ally looked up at him yith. wondering eyes.

What she could have to do with business of auy
kind, what Hght he could expect her to throw
on any such subject, she could not understand.
But there was something soothing, something
pleasant, in thus strolling along the path by the
flowing river with him by her side. She forgot
a little the watch she had been keeping upon
the gate. She recollected that he had once
told her his dream about a flood, and coming ina
boat to her window, but that she would not
take advantage of the boat herself, only kept
handing out the children to him one by one.
How could he divine that she would do that ?
for of course that was exactly what she would
do, if such a risk could ever happen, and if he
should come to rescue her as in his dream.

Somehow he led her without any apparent
compulsion, yet by a persistent impulse, a little
way out of sight of the house, behind a tuft of
shrubbery. The big laurels stood up in their
glistening greenness and shut out the pair from
the windows of the Hook. They were close to
the grey swirl of the river running still and swift
almost on a level with the bank, when he said

to her suddenly, vlth his eyes fixed on her face,

I want to ask yon something about your 
brother.'

'My brother!' cried Ally. There A'as a
sudden 41d flushing up of colour which she
felt to the roots of her hair, and then a chill
fell upon her, and paleness. He was watching
her closely, and, though she was not aware of it,
she had answered his question. ' My brother,'
she repeated, faltering, ' Wat ? he  he is not at
home.'

Miss Pentou,' said Rochford,  do you think
you could trust me ?'

Trust you I' said Ally, her voice growing'
fainter : and then a great panic came over her.
Oh ! Mr. Rochford,' she cried, ' if anything has
happened to Wat, tell me tell me ! It is the
not knowing that is so dreadful to bear.'

1 hope nothing has happened to him,' he
said, very gravely. ' It is only that I have had
a letter from him, and I thought that perhaps
your father had better know.'

Come in and see mother,' said Ally, breathless.
' Oh, yes, yes, we had better know, whatever

it is. Mr. Kochford, oli, I hope he is not
ill. I hope nothing has happened.'

I cannot tell ; he has written to me for
money.'

'For money!' she cried, the expectation in
her face suddenly dropping into a blank of astonishment
and almost disappointment. * Was
that all?' was the question written on Ally's
face.

You don't think that means much ? but I
fear that means a great deal : he is living in
London, and he is very young. You must not
think me intrusive or meddling : it is that I am
afraid of. Sir Edward might suppose, Miss Pen-ton
 your mother might think  it is a difficult
thing for a man to do. I thought that you,
perhaps, if I could see you, might have a little
confidence in me.'

Ally did not know how it was that a sense
of sweetness and consolation should thus shed
itself through her heart ; it was momentary, for
she had no time to think of herself, but it made
everything so much more easy to her. She put
out her hand involuntarily with a sudden sense

that to have confidence iu him was the most
natural thing.

Oh, yes,' she said, * tell me, I have confidence.
I am sure you would do nothing but
what was kind ; tell me, oh, tell me I'

He took lier hand ; he had a light to do it,
for she had offered it to him.

Will you try to follow me and understand V
he said. ' It is business ; it may be difficult for
you, but Sir Edward will see the importance of
it.'

And then lie told her. Ally bending all her
unused faculties to the work of understanding,
how Walter had gone to him before he left
home at all to get money, and how he had
heard from him again, twice ever, asking for
more. Ally Hastened with horror growing in her
heart, but perhaps the yoimg man, though he
was very sympathetic, was scarcely so son-y ashe
looked : and perhaps to seek her out and tell
her this story was not what a man of higher
delicacy would have done. But then Rochford's
desire to be of use to Walter was largely intermingled
with his desire to recommend himself

to Walter's sister. He would have done it anyhow
out of pity for the boy and his parents but
to secure for himself a confidential interview
with Ally, and to have this as a secret between
them, and her as his ambassador and elucidator
to her parents, was what he could not deny
himself. He was sorry for Walter, who was
most likely spoiling his boyish life, and whom it
would be right to call back and restrain : but
yet he was almost glad of the occasion which
brought him so near the girl whom he loved.
She on her part listened to him with excitement,
with relief, with the horror of ignorance, with
an underlying consciousness that all must now
come right.

If Sir Edward will let me I will go,'
Rochford said. ' I shall be able to get hold
of him perhaps easier than anyone who has
authority.'

Oh, how kind you are,' said Ally.

Kind ! I would lie down and let him walk
over me to please you,' the young man murmured,
as if it were to himself.

It was partly to escape from the embarrassment

of such murmurs, though they were sweet
enough, and partly to escape from the curious
process which was turning her trouble into a
semblance of happiness against her will, and
without any consent of hers, that Ally insisted
at last on carrying this information to her
mother.

How could she think you intrusive when
you bring her news of Wat?' cried the girl,
betraying all the anxiety of the family without
knowing it ; and she hurried him in to where
Lady Penton sat in the window, looking out
languidly and often lapsing down her work to
gaze. She, too, flushed with anxious interest
to hear of Walter's letter.

And, when Sir Edward came home, he found
the lawyer's dog-cart still at the door, and the
young man, surrounded by the three anxious
ladies, laying down his plan to them as one who
was master of the situation.

I will go at once if you will let me ; I'll get
hold of him easier than anyone who has a right
to find fault,' young Rochford was saying,
when, cold and hungry and discouraged, and

VOL. III. K

with a smouldering fury against all the world
in his heart, Sir Edward pushed the door open
and found him there.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE POOR BOY.

Walter had plunged into London as a diver
plunges into the sea. He was in search of but one
thing : to find her again who had eluded him,
who had drawn him after her by the strongest
chains that can draw the imagination at his age,
by all the tantalising of vague promises, avoiding
fulfilment, of vague engagements which
came to nothing, and last of all by this sudden
flight, a provocation more audacious than any
that went before. Could he ever have expected
that she would go with him, to wait all the
preliminaries which (as she knew so much
better than he did) must precede any possible

marriage ?

k2

When he came to think of it Ijy the Hght of
the morning, which alters the aspect of so many
things, he saw quite plainly that this was not a
thing he could have expected of her. She was
very daring, he thought, and frank, and secure
in her own innocence, but this was not a thing
which she could be expected to do. He had
been foolishly miserable, disappointed to the
bottom of his soul, when he heard that she had
gone away. The night he had spent trying to
sleep, trying to get through the black hours that
made any enterprise impossible, had been terrible
to him ; but with the morning there had come a
better cheer. Of course, he said to himself!
How could he be so imbecile, so silly, as to
think differently. Of course she would not go
with him under such circumstances ; and it was
delicacy on her part that prevented her from
saying so.

There are times when it is a failure of
modesty even to suggest that modesty requires
certain precautions. Therefore she had not
said it. Impossible for her pure lips, for her
pure mind, to put into words the idea that he

and she, like any noble knight and maiden,
might not have gone together blame! less to the
end of the world. But she had felt that in
the present artificial state of the world it was
better not to do this, and she had acted without
saying anything, confident that he would
understand.

There is no limit to the ingenuity of a lover
in framing excuses for the actions of the person
beloved Instead of being blameable, was not
this another proof of her perfection, of the sensitive
delicacy of all her thoughts, she who wai? so
little bound by conventional laws ? The mixture
of freedom and of reserve, Walter said to
himself, was what he had above all admired and
adored in her. It waa his own stupidity, not
any fault of hers, that had given him so
wretched a night, such a sense of desertion and
abandonment. He remembered now that he
had caught the address of the box which stood
half-packed in the room where she had talked
to him, in Rochford's cottage. He comprehended
everything now. She had taken him
there that he should see it, that he should be

able to follow her, without the need of saying a
word.

Oh, how well he understood it all! Had
they gone together, every circumstance would
have been embarrassing ; the mere payments to
be made, the railway tickets, the cabs, everything
would have been awkward. How well
(he thought to himself) her fine sense had
divined this, perceived it when he saw nothing 
That was no doubt the woman's part, to
divine what could and could not be done  to
settle it all swiftly, silently, without any need of
talk, which would have been more embarrassing
still.

These thoughts carried him as on fairy wings
to the railway-station on the dark and cold
morning of his flight from home. He had Rochford's
fifty pounds in his pocket, which seemed
to his inexperience a fortune, a sum he would
never get through, and which was his own, not
taken from his father or lessening the means at
home, but his, to do what he liked with. With
that in his pocket, and the delightful confidence
that Emmy had not abandoned him,  that, on

the contrary, she had done what was ideally
right, the very thing that if he had understood,
if he had not been dull beyond example, he
would have liked her to do  Walter rushed
from his father's house with not too much
thought of the wi-wretchedness he was leaving
behind. He would not think of that, nor did he
feel himself at all constrained to do so. "Why
should they be miserable ? He was old enough
to know how to take care of himself. A man
did get helpless, almost effeminate, living so
much at home ; but, after all, he could not be
made a fuss over as if he were a lost child.
They would understand at least that he could
take care of himself.

And then he reflected, with a smile about the
comers of his mouth, they would soon know
why it was. If at the bottom of his heart there
might be a thrill of alarm as to how they would
take it, yet on the surface he felt sure that
Emmy's beauty and charm would overcome all
objections ; and then it was not as if he were a
boy dependent on his father's bounty. That
ten thousand pounds made all the difference I

He had thought at first that it was a mean thing
to suppose that it made any difference or disturbed
any of the bonds of duty : but now his
mind was changed, and he perceived that a man
has his OAvn career to think of, that nature
forbids him to be always in a state of subordination
to his father  nature, and the consciousness
that he has enough of his own to hive upon
without troubling his father.

Yes, it made a difference, not only on the
surface, but fundamentally, a difference which
was real ; and then the present matter was not
one of a day. It concerned, he said to himself,
with tremendous gravity, the happiness of his
life. How could a little anxiety on the part of
his parents, a little quite groundless anxiety, be
compared to that ? Even to be brutal, he said
to himself, as he must live longer than they
could, his happiness was of the most importance,
even if it should affect permanently their peace
of mind ; and it was only for a time, a few
weeks, a few days. What comparison was
there? Even father himself, who was a just
man, would see and acknowledge this. And as

for his mother  oh, mother would forgive !
That was easily settled. She might be unhappy
for a moment, but she would rather be unhappy
than condemn him to lifelong misery. That he
was very sure of; if the choice Avere given, she
would accept that which was best for him.
Thus Walter completely vindicated to himself
what he was doing; and before he got to the
railway, which was a long way off, and gave
time for all these elaborations of thought, he
was convinced that what he was doing was
what, on the whole, if they knew all the circumstances,
they would like him to do.

An ordeal which he had not calculated upon
met him when he reached London. The address
which he had seen on Emmy's box was in an
out-of-the-way and poor place, though Walter,
knowing nothing of town, did not know how
much out of the way it was. He left his bag at
a hotel, and then he went on in a hansom
through miles and miles of squalid streets, until
at length he reached the goal of his hopes. The
goal of his hopes ! Was it so ?

As he stood at the poor little narrow door, the

ideas with which he had contemplated Crock-ford's
cottage came into his mind. He had persuaded
himself into thinking that Crockfords
cottage was in its way as venerable as Penton ;
but this No. 37, Albert Terrace, what was thereto
be said for it "i He could not restrain a little
shudder, nor could he, when he was shown into
the little parlour on the ground-floor, look
round him without a gasp of dismay. The only
consolation he could get out of it was that he
could take Emmy away, that this was indeed
his object here, to take her away, to separate
her from everything that was squalid and
miserable, to surround her with the graces and
luxuries of a very different kind of life.

But even the aspect of the house, and of the
little parlour, which was full of dirty finery and
hung round with photographs and coloured
pictures of a Avoman in various theatrical
dresses, with whom he never associated the
object of his affections, was nothing to the
shock which Walter sustained when the door
opened and the original of these portraits
presented herself, a large faded woman, very

carelessly dressed, and with the smile which
was beaming around him from all the walls,
the stereotyped smile of the stage, upon her face.
To realise, as he did by-and-by, that this washer
mother, to feel that she had a right to ask
him questions, and consider him with a judicial
air, as one who had in her greasy hands, which
were so disagreeably soft, and felt as if they
were loaded, the thread of his life, gave poor
young Wat such a shock as took the words
from his lips. He stared at her without knowing
what to say to her in a dismay which could
find no expression. Xo, Emmy was not there.
Her occupation required that she should live in
another part of London. No, she did not know
that she could give him her daughter's address
but if he returned in the evening he might
perhaps see her.

You are Mr. Penton ? Oh, yes, she has
spoken of you. She feared that perhaps you
would take this step. But, Mr. Penton, my
daughter is a girl of the highest principle.
She can see you only under her mother's
roof.'

I wish nothing else I' cried poor Wat. * I  I
am ready to do whatever she pleases. She
knows I am ready  she knows '

Yes,' said the mother, nodding her terrible
head, upon which was banded and braided and
plaited more hair than ever grew, and smiling
her terrible smile, and putting forth that odious
hand to give a little confidential pressure to his.
I also know a great deal, Mr. Pent on. I have
heard about you  your chivalry and your magnificent
position, and your many, many qualities.
But, as you know, a mother's duty is to guard
her child. 1 know the snares of life better than
she ; I have trodden the thorny way before her,
young gentleman. I have myself experienced
much which  I would save her from,' added
the woman, with the imposing gesture of a
mere nobles turning away her head and extending
her hand as if to hold the gay deceiver at a
distance.

He was the wolf at the gate of the sheepfold,
it appeared. Alas, poor Wat ! he did not recognise
himself from that point of view. Was not
he more like the poor strayed lamb, straying in

ignorantly into the midst of the slayers ? He
was glad to get away, to bring this alarming,
unexpected interview to an end : all the more
that it had begun to be apparent to him, in a
way that made his heart sick, that in the face
of this woman, with all its traces of paint and
powder, and in the little gestures and tricks of
tone and movement, there were resemblances,
frightful resemblances, suggestive of his Emmy;
that it was possible she might some day  oh,
horrible thought I  be like her mother. But
no, he cried to himself, the marks which her
profession had left  the lines under her eyes,
the yellow stains of the rouge, the unwholesome
softness of her loaded hands from all those
he had come to deliver Emmy ; these artificial
evils never need to be hers. She should smile
upon people who loved her, not upon the horrible
public staring at her and her beauty.

As he turned away from the place, he even
said to himself that this poor woman was not
to blame for all those blemishes of self-decoration.
It had been her trade ; she had been
compelled to do it. Who had any right to

blame her? These might be as honourable
scars as those which a soldier gets in battle.
Perhaps she had to do it to get bread for herself
and her child  to bring up Emmy and make
her what he knew her. If that should be so,
were not the traces of what she had gone
through, of what she had had to bear, to be
respected, venerated even, like any other marks
of painful toil ? He made these representations
hotly to himself, but he did not find that any
ingenuity of thought delivered him from that
horror and repulsion. To see the rouge and
the powder on the face of a young woman still
playing her part was one thing ; to mark the
traces of them on the vulgarised and faded
countenance of one whose day was over was
quite another. It was unjust, but it was natural.
And this was Emmy's mother, and Emmy
was like her. Oh, that such a thing should be !
After this came the strangest episode that
could occur in a young man's Hfe. He was
afloat on London, on that sea of pleasure and
misery, amid all the perils and temptations that
made the hearts of those who loved him sink

within them. Even little slab, with her little
stock of worldly knowledge, who thought he
would return home when he ' tired,' or when
his money was done, could form no other idea
of the prodigal than that he was living in
pleasure. He was amusing himself, Rochford
thought, not without a half sympathy in the
break-out of the home boy. As for his father
and mother, unutterable terrors were in their
minds, fears of they knew not what  of vice
and depravity, evil associates, evil habits, the
things that kill both body and soul.

But Walter's present life was a life more
tedious than all the monotony of home. It had
its bright moments, when he was "uith Emmy,
who sometimes permitted him to take her to the
play, sometimes to walk with her through the
bright-lighted streets, sometimes even on Saturday
afternoons or Sunday to take her to the
country. It was only on these days that he
saw her in daylight at all. She said, laughingly,
that her occupation forbade it at other times,
but she would not tell him what that occupation
was.

When they went to Richmond or Greenwich,
or to a little box in one or other of the theatres,
where they could sit half hidden by the curtains,
and carry on their own little drama, which was
more interesting than anything on the stage,
Walter was in a strange elysium, in which the
atmosphere was charged with painful elements,
yet was more sweet than anything else in life.
He made a hundred discoveries in her, sometimes
sweet, sometimes  different. It made no
alteration in his sentiment when they happened
to be discoveries that wounded  sometimes even
that shocked him. He was hurt, his sensitive
nature felt the shock as if it had been a wound ;
but it did not affect his love. That love even
changed a little  it became protecting, forgiving,
sometimes remonstrating; he longed that
she should be his, that he might put all that
right, mould her to a more exquisite model,
smooth away the points that jarred.

Already he had begun to hint this and that to
her, to persuade her to one little alteration and
another. To speak more softly  she had spoken
softly enough at Rochford's, it was only the

spirit of the street that had got into her blood
to move more gently, to know that some of
the things she said were dreadful things 
things that should not come from such lips. He
had not perceived any of these things while she
was at Rochford's; he perceived them now,
but they did not affect his love, they only penetrated
that golden web with threads of shadow,
with lines of pain, and smote his heart with keen
arrows of anguish and regret  regret not that
he had given his life and love to her, but only
that she was less perfect than he had thought
that, instead of looking up to her always, and
shaping his harsher being (as he had thought)
upon her sweetness, it must be his first to shape
and pare these excrescences away.

But, besides these glimpses of a paradise
which had many features of purgatory, Walter
had nothing at all to counterbalance the havoc
he was making in his existence. He did not
know what to do with himself in London. He
rose late, having no occupation for the morning
; he wandered about the streets ; he ate the
late breakfast and dinner, which were now all

VOL. III. L

the meals he had tie for, spinning out these
repasts as long as possible. It was a wonder
that he never met his father, who was straying
about the streets in search of him ; but Walter's
streets were not those which his father frequented.
He acquired, or rather both acquired,
a great knowledge of town in these perambulations
; but not of the same kind. And then he
would go to his occupation, the only tangible
thing in his life, the meeting with Emmy.

She was sadly shifty and uncertain even in
these scraps of her time, which were all she
would or could give him. She was not sure
that she wanted to marry him at all. She was
quite sure that she would only be married by
special licence at four in the afternoon, which
was all the fashion now. But no ; he was not
to take that oath and make himself unhappy
about her. He should not be obliged to swear.
She would be married by banns  that was the
fashion too. She knew all about what had to
be done  everything that was necessary  but
she Avould not tell him. She laughed and
eluded him as before. Then she said, Why

should they man-y? they were very well as
they were.

You are very good to me at present,' she
said; *you think I must have a box whenever
we go to the theatre, and a bouquet, and everything
that is nice ; but after we are manned you
will not be so kind.'

When Walter protested that neither marriage
nor anything else could diminish his devotion,
she shook her head, and said that they would
not be able to afford it.

You can't have so much as five hundred a
year,' she said ; ' most likely not more than four
and what would that be in London !'

But we need not Hve in London,' he said;
my father would give us the Hook.'

Emmy threw up her arms with a scream.

Should you like to murder me V she cried.
It hurt the poor boy that she should have

this opinion of his home  the home in which he
had been born ; and he listened with deep depression
to the satirical description of it she
began to make.

We ought to be ducks to live in the damp

l2

like that. I've never been used to dabble in
the water, and it would be my death  1 know
it would be my death. But we might let it,
you know, and that would give us a little
more money, say two hundred a year more 
do you think it would bring two hundred a
years

Don't talk of such things !' cried the young
man ; ' it is not for you to be troubled about
that.'

And for whom is it, then V she cried, * for
you know no more than a baby ; and I believe
you think we are to live like the birds on
worms and seeds, and anything else that turnip?
up.'

Walter had never left her with so heavy a
heart as on this evening. He was entirely cast
down by her hesitations, her doubts, the contempt
with which she spoke of the fortune which
he had thought magnificent in his ignorance,
and the home which he loved. He went back
to his hotel with a heavy heart. He had given
up everything for her  all the other objects that
made life of importance. He had put himself

altogether at her disposal, and lived but for the
moments of their meeting. What was he to do
if she despised him  if she cast him off? A faint
sense of the pitiful part he had to play began
vaguely to awaken in his mind, not moving him
to the length of rebellion, nor even to the exercise
of his critical faculties, only to misery and
a chill suspicion that, instead of sharing the
fervour of his feelings, she was weighing him
in terrible scales of judgment, estimating what
he was worth  a process Which made Walter s
heart sink. For what was he worth ?  unless it
might happen to be love  in repayment of
that which he gave.

And next evening when he went to the house,
which he always approached with a shiver,
afraid of meeting the mother, relieved when he
found his love alone, he suddenly found himself
in the presence he dreaded with a shock of
alarm and surprise : for Emmy, whose perceptions
were keen enough on this point, generally
contrived to spare him the meeting which she
divined he feared. Mrs. Sam Rochford met
him with her sunniest smile. She caressed his

hand with those large, soft, flaccid fingers from
which he shrank.

She is not in, but 1 have a message for
you, my dear young sir,' she said.

Not in !' cried Walter, his heart sinking into
his boots.

She is engaged elsewhere. May I tell you
the truth, Mr. Penton ? She has confidence in
her mother. I am her only protector, for her
step-father, though an honest fellow, does not
count, being in another walk of life. I am her
only protector, young gentleman.'

But surely, surely she doesn't want protection
 from me.'

Pardon me, my dear Mr. Penton, that is
exactly where she wants protection  from you,
that is, from her own heart, from her own treacherous,
foolish heart. What have you to offer her,
that is the question ? She has had good offers.
There is one at present, hung up, so to speak,
because she does not know her own mind.'

Let me speak to her,' said Walter, hoarsely.
She cannot intend to desert me after all  after

air

Dear boy !' cried the woman, pressing his
hand once more with hers, ' how I admire such
impetuosity. But you must remember my duty
as a mother. You have nothing to settle on
her, Mr. Penton. Yes, I understand your ten
thousand pounds: but you are not of age.
You can't even make your will or sign the
settlements till you are of age. She has very
good offers, no one could have better. Shall
I tell you,' said Emmy's mother, with the
most ingenuous and ingratiating of smiles,
shall I tell you what I should do if I were you ?
I would not allow her to sacrifice herself I
would rather, much rather, that the sacrifice
was on my side.'

Sacrifice I' he cried, feeling the dreadful
little room reel round him.

What else can you call it, Mr. Penton? You
will not be twenty-one till the autumn, I hear.
October, is it ? And in the meantime my child
has to toil. Conceive a creature of her refined
and sensitive temperament, young gentleman ! a
girl not adapted to face the world.'

This confused Walter, who could not but feel

that Emmy was very well qualified to face the
world, and to whom she seemed a sort of Una
triumphant over it; but he would not reply on
this score. All he could say was an impassioned
offer if she would only accept  if her mother
would but accept  all that he had. What
could it matter when so soon everything he had
Avonld be hers ?

The mother put away his offer with her large
white hand, turning her shoulder to him and half
averting her head.

'Money! I dare not propose it; I dare not
suggest it, though it is most generous, most
noble on your part,' she added, turning round
suddenly, seizing his hand in both of hers with
a soft lingering pressure, which poor Walter
could not help feeling left something of the
pomade behind. Then she subsided into a
more majestic pose. ' But, dear fellow, what
have you?' she said, with a sort of caressing
reflectiveness. It all seemed like a scene in a
play to Walter, notwithstanding he himself was
one of the actors. ' What have jour she said,
with a sort of tender regret. ' Your agent will

soon tire of making yon advances, and every
advance diminishes your capital. We are talking
of marriage, my dear young gentleman, not of
mere amusement and spending your money free,
as some young men will do to please a girl they
are in love with ; but the object of my life has
been to bring up my girl respectable, and nothing
of that sort is possible.' She waved her
hand, dismissing the idea, while Walter stood
stupefied, gazing at her. ' It is a question of
marriage,' she added, with solemnity : ' and what
have you to offer  expectations f Then she
sank her voice to a sort of stage whisper. ' Do
you know that your father is after you, young
sir ? He has been here.'

Here !' said the boy, in sudden alarm and
dismay.

She nodded her head slowly and solemnly.

Here. I need not say I gave him no information
: but if you rely upon him to receive and
support you, as my child has told me  Young
Mr. Penton, Emmy must not be exposed to an
angry father's wrath.'

Mv father here !'

He looked round him, at the room, at the
woman, at all these dreadful accessories, with
a sinking heart. He seemed to see them all
through his father's eyes, who had never seen
Emmy, and to himself they were terrible enough
with all the charm that she exercised.

No,' she said, raising her arm. ' I cannot
have her exposed to an angry father's wrath.
Mr. Penton, this suit of yours must come to an
end.'

I must see Emmy,' he cried, with confused
misery. ' I must see Emmy ; don't, don't, for
pity's sake, say any more. It is she who must
decide.'

Pardon me ; she takes her own way in small
matters, but in this a mother is the best judge.
Mr. Penton, she must not be exposed to an
angry '

I must see Emmy, I must see Emmy,' cried
poor AValter. He was capable of no other
thought.

CHAPTER IX.

A MORE CHEERFUL View.

Sir Edward, with more than the usual irritation
in his countenance, contemplated the new member
of the family council. He had come in with
a great deal to say, and the sight of Mr. Rochford
was like a sudden check, unlocked for, and
most unwelcome. He had, indeed, begun to
speak, throwing himself into a chair. ' I've got
my trouble for my pains  ' when he perceived
that the weariness, the contrariety, the trouble
in his face had been betrayed to a stranger.
He pulled himself up with a sudden effort.

All, Rochford,' he said, with an attempt at a
smiling welcome, which was as much out of his
usual habits as of his present state of mind.

Edward,' said his wife, ' Mr. Rochford has
heard from Walter. He came to bring us the
letter ; he has some information, and he knows,
oh, more than any of us  from the first.'

What is it he knows V cried the father,
exasperated, with a start of energy in defence of
his privacy and of his son. He looked with his
angry, troubled eyes at the intruder with an
angry defiance and contempt. Rochford the
solicitor ! the man of business, a man whom
indeed he could not treat as an inferior, but who
had no claim to place himself on the same level
as a Penton of Penton. He had not hitherto
shown any disposition to stand on his dignity
to make the difference between the old level
and the new. But that this young fellow should
presume to bring information about his son, to
thrust in a new and intrusive presence into a
family matter, was more than he could bear.
'I am very glad to consult Mr. Rochford on
matters within his range,' he added, with an
angry smile, ' but this is a little, just a little,
out of his sphere.'

Edward !' cried Lady Peyton, and ' Father !'

cried Ally ; the latter Avitli an indignation and
resentment which surprised herself. But to hear
him, so kind as he was, put down so, put aside
when he wanted nothing but to help, had become
suddenly intolerable to Ally. Why should
AValter, who was behaving so unkindly, be considered
so much above him, who had come out
of his way to help ? An impulse almost of indignation
against Walter filled her mind, and she
felt ready to silence her father himself, to demand
what he meant. She did not herself comprehend
the fervour of new feeling, the opposition,
the resentment that filled her heart.

When Sir Edward reads this letter he will
understand,' said the young man, who kept his
temper admirably.

He was ready to bear a great deal more
than that, having so much at stake. And he,
for his part, was quite aware that for a Rochford
of Reading to ally himself to the Pentons
of Penton was a great matter, and one which
might naturally meet with opposition. To have
his part taken by Ally was a great matter  he
could put up with her father's scorn for a time.

Sir Edward read the letter, and his serious
countenance grew more sombre still.

From this it appears that my son has applied
to you for money 1 I am sorry he has done it,
but I don't see that it tells any more. Walter
has not made a confidant of you, that I can see.
My dear, I don't mean to be disagreeable to Mr.
Rochford : but he must see, anyone might see,
that a family matter  a  a consultation among
ourselves  a question which has nothing to do
with the public '

I am your man of business, Sir Edward,' said
Rochford. ' My family have known the secrets
of yours long before my time. I don't think we
have ever betrayed our trust. Your son has put
some information into my hands. I did not
think I was justified in keeping it from you, and
I think, if you will let me, that I can help you.
Intrusion was not what I meant.'

He was the least excited of that tremulous
party, and he felt that the object Which was
before him was well worth a struggle ; but at
the same time the young man was not without
a certain generosity of purpose, a desire to help

these troubled and anxious people. To Ally
his attitude was entirely one of generosity and
nobleness. He had come in the midst of the
darkness to bring the first ray of light, and he
was too magnanimous to be disgusted or repulsed
by the petulance of her father's distress.
If he had a more individual motive it was that
of pleasing lier, and that was no selfish motive,
surely. That added  how could it be otherwise
?  a charm to all the rest in her dazzled
eyes.

'Mr. Rochford is very kind, Edward,' said
Lady Penton. ' Why should we not take the
help he osiers? He is a young man, he understands
their ways, not like you and me. The
young ones understand each other, just as we
understand each other. They haven't the same
way of judging. They don't think how their
fathers and mothers suffer at home. Oh, let him
go ! it isn't as if he would talk of it and betray
us. Listen to him. He has known of this all
the time, and he hasn't betrayed us. Oh, let him
go.'

Go ! where is he to go V

To find Walter,' they all cried together.

It is killing you,' said Lady Penton. ' Let
the young man who doesn't feel as we do, who
doesn't think of it as we do  let him go,
Edward. It seems so dreadful to us, but not
to him. He thinks that probably there is nothing
dreadful in it at all, that it is a thing
that  a thing that  boys do : they are so
thoughtless  they do it, meaning no particular
harm.'

There is something in that,' said Sir Edward,
with relief. ' I am glad you begin to see it in
that way, my dear. It is more silly than wrong
I have thought so all along.'

That is what Mr. Rochford says. He is a
young man himself. He thinks the boy will
never have considered, and that as soon ashe
thinks, as soon as he finds out  Edward,
we mustn't be tragical about it. I see it now
as you say. Stay at home  you have so
many things to think of  and let the young
man go. They understand each other between
themselves,' Lady Penton said, with a somewhat
wan smile.

And then Sir Edward began to relax a little,

Rochford is right there,' he said. ' It is perhaps
a good thing to have a man's view. You,
of course, were always unduly frightened, my
dear. As for not writing, that is so common a
thing I could have told you all that. But,
naturally, seeing you in such a state has affected
me. When you are married,' he said, turning to
Rochford with a faint smile, ' you will find that
though you may think it weak of her, or even
silly, the colour of your thoughts will always be
affected by your wife's.'

This speech produced a curious little momentary
dramatic scene which had nothing to do
with the question in hand. Rochford's eyes
instinctively flashed a glance at Ally, who,
though hers were cast down, saw it, and flamed
into sudden crimson, the consciousness of
which filled her with shame and confusion. Her
blush threw a reflection instantaneous, like the
flash of a fire, over him, and lighted up his eyes
with a glow of delight, to conceal which he too
looked down, and answered, with a sort of
servile respect,

VOL. III. M

I have no doubt of it whatever, sir ; and it
ought to be so.'

Well, perhaps theoretically it ought to be so,'
Sir Edward said, who noticed nothing, and
whose observation was not at any time quick
enough to note what eyes say to eyes.

Now that it was all explained and settled,
and he felt that it was by his wife's special interposition
that Kochford had been taken into
favour, there could be no doubt that it was a
comfort to have a man, with all the resources of
youth and an immediate knowledge of that
world which Sir Edward was secretly aware he
had almost forgotten, to take counsel with. His
spirits rose. His trouble had been greatly intensified
by that sensation of helplessness which
had grown upon him as he wandered about the
London streets, sick at heart, obstinate, hopeless,
waiting upon chance, which is so poor a
support.

This day he had been more hopeless than
ever, feeling his impotence with that sickening
sense of being able to do nothing, to think of
nothing, which is one of the most miserable of

sensations. It was so far from true that he had
taken the colour of his thoughts from his wife,
or felt Walter's absence more lightly than she
had done, that it was he who had been the
pessimist all along, whose imagination and
memory had furnished a thousand stories of ruin
and the destruction of the most hopeful of
young men, and to whom it was almost impossible
to communicate any hopefulness. Buta
partnership of any kind is of gi-eat use in such
circumstances, and above all the partnership of
marriage, in which one can always put the
blame upon the other with the advantage of
being himself able to believe that the matter
really stands so.

Lady Penton did not complain. She was
willing enough to bear the blame. Her own
heart was much relieved by Rochford cheerful
intimation that Walter s little escapade was the
commonest thing in the world, and most probably
meant nothing at all. If it might but be
so ! If it were only his thoughtlessness, the
folly of a boy ! At least if that could not be
believed it was still a good thing and most forms



tunate that people should think so, and the man
who suggested it endeared himself to the
mother's heart.

And then another and more expansive consultation
began. On ordinary occasions Sir
Edward allowed himself to be questioned, giving
brief answers, sometimes breaking off impatiently,
shutting himself up in a troubled
silence, from which an unsatisfactory scrap of
revelation unwillingly dropped would now and
then come. Sometimes he drove them all away
from him with the morose irritation of his unsuccess.
What did it matter what he had done
in town, when it all came to nothing, when it
was of no consequence, and brought no result ?

But to-day he spoke with a freedom which he
had never shown before. Everything was more
practical, more possible. The new agent had to
be informed of all the facts, upon which perhaps
his better knowledge of such matters might
throw new light. Sir Edward confessed that
he had extracted from old Rochford the address
of the girl's mother. ' Though I could not allow
though I mean I feel sure that the boy never

inixecl himself up with people of that sort,' he
added, with his Httle air of superiority; then
described Mrs. Sam Rochford to them, and her
declaration that she knew nothing of the young
gentleman.

In his heart of hearts Sir Edward did not
believe this any more than Rochford did, but it
gave him a countenance, it supported his new
theory, the theory so adroitly suggested to him
that Walter after all was probably not much to
blame. This theory was a greater consolation
than can be told to all of them. Not much to
blame ! Careless only, amusing himself, a thing
which most youths of his age did somehow or
other.

Of course,' Rochford said, ' there are some
preternatural boys who never tear their pinafores
or do anything they ought not to do.'

Thus he conveyed to their minds a suggestion
that it was in fact rather spirited and fine of
Walter to claim the emancipation which was
natural to his kind. The load which was thus
lifted from their gentle bosoms is not to be
described. Lady Penton indeed knew better,

but yet was so willing to be deceived, so ready
to be persuaded ! And Sir Edward knew  oh,
a great many variations of the theme, better and
worse  but yet was willing too to take the
young man's word for it, the young man who
belonged to Walter's generation and knew what
was in the minds of the boys as none of the
others could do. He brought comfort to all
their hearts, both to those who had experience
of life and those who had none, by his bold
assumption of an easy knowledge.

I have no doubt, if truth were told, he is
dying to come home,' Rochford said, ' and very
tired of all the noise and nonsense that looks
so pleasant at a distance. I know how one
feels in such circumstances  bored to death,
finding idleness and the theatres and all that
sort of thing the dreariest routine, and yet
ashamed to own it and come back. Oh, he
only wants to see a little finger held up to him
from home, / know!' said the young fellow,
with a laugh. He did himself the greatest injustice,
having been all his life of the order of
those who have the greatest repugnance to

dirtying their pinafores. But love and policy,
and pity as well, inspired him, and his laugh
was the greatest comfort in the world to all
those aching hearts. He took down Mrs. Sam
Rochford's address, and all the information
which could be given to him ; the very sight of
his little note-book inspiring his audience with
confidence. ' The thing for me to do,' he said,
is to take him myself the money he wants.
Though the address he gives is only at a postoffice,
I shall find him out  and perhaps take
a day or two's amusement in his company,' he
added, with a smile.

Oh, Mr. Rochford, that would be kindness
indeed !' Lady Penton said.

And Ally gave him a look  what did it say ?
Promises, pledges, a whole world of recompense
was in it. He said, with another little laugh of
confidence and self-satisfaction, not untouched
with emotion,

Yes, I think that's the best way. I'll get
him to take me about, I only a country fellow,
and he up to all the ways of town ; and it will
be strange if we don't get to be on confidential

terms ; aud as I feel quite certain he is dying to
come home '

Most Hkely, most likely,' said Sir Edward.

It was, as Rochford felt, touch and go, very
delicate work with Sir Edward. A word too
much, a look even, might be enough to remind
Walter's father that he was the head of the
house of Penton, and that this was only his man
of business. The young lawyer was acute
enough to see that, and wise enough to restrain
the natural desire to enlarge upon what he
could do, which the intoxication of feminine
belief which was round him encouraged and
called forth. He subdued himself with a self-denial
which was very worthy of credit, but
which no one gave him any credit for. And
by this time the afternoon was spent, darkness
coming on, and it was necessary he should go
home : he felt this to be expedient in the state
of affairs, though it was hard to go without a
word from Ally, without a moment of that
more intimate consultation, all in the erring
brother's interests, which yet drew these two so
much closer together.

I will come this way,' lie said, as they all
went with him to the door where the dog-cart
v3LS standing, ' tomorrow, on my way to town,
to see if there are any last directions  anything
you wish to suggest. Sir Edward anything
that may occur to you in the meantime, which I
might carry out.'

Yes, perhaps that will be well,' Sir Edward
said.

To go direct from you will give me so much
more influence.'

Yes, yes,' he said, impatiently. It was very
delicate work with Sir Edward. ' Telegraph if
I'm wanted. Of course I am ready  whatever
is wanted.'

'And you will let us know at once, oh, at
once, Mr. Rochford ; you know how anxious,
though foolishly, as you all say '

Not foolishly,' the young man said, pressing
Lady Penton's hand. He was very sorry for
her wistful, tremulous looks, though his heart
was bounding with satisfaction and elation in
his own prospects. ' Not foolishly,' he half-whispered,
'but soon to be over. I think I can

promise you that  1 feel sure I can promise you
that.'

God bless you !' said Walter's mother, ' and
reward you, for I can't  oh, if you bring me
back my boy, Mr. Rochford !'

I will,' he cried, but still in a whisper. ' I
will ! and you can reward me, dear Lady
Penton.'

He kissed her hand in his emotion, which is a
salutation very unusual in mild English households,
and brought a little thrill, a sensation of
solemnity, and strangeness, and possibilities
conceived, to her startled consciousness.

Ally could not speak at all. She was half-concealed
in her mother's shadow, clinging to
her, still more full of strange sweet excitement
and emotion. Her young eyelids seemed to
weigh down her eyes. She could not look at
him, but his words seemed to murmur in her
ears and dwell there, returning over and over
again, ' You can reward me.' Ally, at least,
now, if not before, knew how.

You've got a good horse there,' said Sir
Edward, mechanically stroking the shining neck

of the impatient animal, ' you'll not be long on
the road.'

'Xo, she goes well; tomorrow then, sir,
early.'

As early as you please  you'll have a cold
drive. Thank you, Rochford.'

He put out his hand to the young man with
a hasty touch just as Rochford took the reins,
and then turned away and shut himself up in
his book-room, while the others stood watching
the dash of the mare, the sudden awakening of
sound in the silence, the glimmer of the lampas
the cai-t flew along the drive. Sir Edward
retired to think it over by his dull afternoon fire,
which was not made up till after tea. The night
had fallen, Jut he did not immediately light his
candles. He bent down over the dull red glow
to think it over. His mind was relieved, there
seemed now some possibility that this miserable
anxiety might be over. But even though
his object may be gained by other means, a man
does not like to fail in his own person, and the
chill of unsuccess was in his heart.

Rochford, his man of business ! well, princes

themselves have to seek help from men of business.
It was his trade to find out things. It
was in the way of his profession that he should
succeed. But then had not his ear caught
something about a reward  a reward! what
reward ? except his charges, of course. A new
contrariety came into Sir Edward's mind, though
he could not define it. He had not at all an
agreeable half-hour as he sat thinking it over
in that dull moment before tea, over the dull
book-room fire.

CHAPTER X.

A NEW AGE XT.

Ally was up very early next morning. She
was always early. In a house with so many
little children and so few sei-ants, if you were
not up early you were in arrears with your work
the whole day. That was her conviction
always, but on many occasions, especially on
dark winter mornings, it did not carry the same
practical force. This day she was more certain
of the necessity than ever. She scolded Anne
for not sharing it, but so softly that Anne fell
asleep in the middle of the little lecture. And
Ally knew very well that nothing could be
done, that no one could come so very early as

this was. But still lier mind was in great agitation,
and it did her good to be up and about.
About Walter ? She had been very unhappy
about Walter, full of distress and trouble, her
heart beating at every sound, thinking of nothing
else.

But to-day she was, to say the least, a little
more at ease about her brother. Last night
they had all been more at their ease, so much so
that Lady Penton had begun to talk a little
about the removal, and the new furniture that
would be required, and the many expenses and
advantages, such as they were, of the new
establishment. The expenses were what Lady
Penton was most sensible of. For her own
part, perhaps the advantages did not seem advantages
to her. She was satisfied with the
Hook. What did she want with Penton ? But,
t all events, she had been able to think of all
this, to change the one persistent subject which
had occupied her mind. And perhaps this was
what had set Ally's mind afloat. She was glad
to be quite alone to think it all over, notwithstanding
that Martha looked at her with no

agreeable glances as she came into the diningroom
before the fire was lighted.

I just overstep' myself, Miss Alice,' said
Martha. ' With helping to wash up downstairs,
and helping to get the nursery straight upstairs,
a body has no time for sleep.'

It does not matter at all, Martha,' said Ally,
with fervour, ' I only thought I should like to
arrange the books a little.'

Oh, if that's all, miss,' Martha said, graciously
accepting the excuse.

But even Martha was a hindrance to xllly's
thoughts. She made herself very busy collecting
the picture-books with which the children
made up for the want of their usual walks on
wet days, and which they were apt to leave
about the dining-room, and ranging them all ina
row on the shelf while Martha concluded her
work. But as soon as she was alone. Ally's
amis dropped by her side and her activity
ceased. She had put away her thoughts in
Martha's presence, as she had done in Anne's
and in her mother's, keeping them all for her
own enjoyment ; but now that she was alone

she could take them out and look at them.
After all, they were not thoughts at all, they
were recollections, anticipations, they were a
sort of soft intoxication, delirium, a state too
sweet to be real, yet which somehow was real 
more real than the most commonplace and
prosaic things. To be alone, how delightful it
was, even with the fire only half alight and
reluctant to begin the work of the day, and
Martha's duster still before her.

She leaned her arms on the mantel-piece and
bent her head down upon them and shut her
eyes. She could see best when she shut her
eyes. Had anyone been there, Ally could not
thus have shut herself up in that magical world.
Her hands were rather blue with cold, if truth
must be told, but she was aware of nothing but
an atmosphere of warmth and softness, full of
golden reflections and a haze of inarticulate happiness.
She had forgotten all about that momentary
movement of pride, of hesitation, which
she had afterwards called by such hard names,
but which at the moment had been real enough
that sensation of being Miss Penton of Penton,

in the presence of Mrs. Rochford and her
daughter.

Both the sin and the repentance had faded
out of Ally's mind. She did not ask herself
anything about her suitor, whether he would
satisfy her father, whether he would be thought
of importance equal to the new claims of the
family. Ally had gone beyond this stage, she
remembered none of these things. The only
external matters which affected her were the
facts that for her sake he was going out into
the world to bring back her brother, and that
the whole horizon round her was the brighter
for this enter-prise.

Naturally her thoughts gave it a far graver
character than it possessed. It seemed something
like the work of a knight-extant, an effort
of self-sacrifice beautiful and tenable. He was
about to leave his home, to plunge into that
seething world of London, of which she had
heard so many appalling things, for her brother's,
nay, for her sake. She thought him as
wandering through streets more miserable than
any of the bewildering dark forests of romance,

VOL. III. N

In short, all the anguish of such a search as she
had read of in heartrending stories occurred to
Ally's mind. And all this he was doing for her.
It gave her a pang of delightful suffering more
sweet than enjoyment that he should be so
good, so brave, and that it should be all for
her.

Meantime young Rochford prepared, with a
little trouble, it must be said, to absent himself
from his business for a few days ; he thought
that certainly this time must be required for a
mission that might not be an easy one ; for if he
did not know, as he said, that such escapades
were the commonest thing in the world amongst
young men, he knew very well that to bring
back a young culprit was not easily accomplished,
and made up his mind that he would
want both courage and patience for his task.
As a matter of fact, he had no idea of Walter's
motive, or of the 'entanglement' which had
drawn him away. He was willing enough to
believe in an entanglement, but not in one so
innocent and blameless ; and he believed that
the youth had plunged into the abyss with the

curiosity and passion of youth, to feel what was
to be felt and what was to be seen, and to make
a premature dash at that tree of the knowledge of
evil which has so wonderful and bitter a charm.
He was ready to take a great deal of trouble for
the deliverance of the boy, though not without
a little shake of his head at the thought of the
other young Pentons Who had also taken that
plunge, and whom it had not been possible to
rescue.

He had heard his father tell how many efforts
Sir Walter had made to save his sons, and with
how little effect. Did it perhaps run in the
blood ? But Rochford was fully determined todo
his best, and confident, as became a fighter
in that good cause, that whoever failed, he at
least would succeed. And it was quite possible
that he might have been willing to help these
poor people (as he called them to himself), and
save the unfortunate boy, if he had not loved
Ally. He was generously sorry for them all,
notwithstanding his consciousness of the enormous
advantage likely to spring to himself
from what he could do for them.

n2

He would have done it, he thought  if they
had asked him, or even if it had come evidently
in his way  for them ; and certainly he would
have done it for Ally's brother, whosoever that
brother might have been, to recommend himself
to the girl he loved. There could be no doubt
upon that subject. The complication which
made it so infinitely useful to him to make himself
useful in this way, because the girl he loved
was the eldest daughter of Sir Edward Penton,
and more or less out of his sphere, was after alla
secondary matter  and yet it could not be
denied that it was very important too. He said
to himself that he would have chosen Ally from
the world had she been a poor curate's daughter,
a poor governess, a nobody. But at the
same time he could not but be aware that to
marry Miss Penton was a great thing for him,
and worth a great deal of trouble to bring
about.

Perhaps a man's feelings in the matter of his
love are never so unalloyed as a girl's, to whom
the love itself is everything, and with whom the
circumstances tell for nothing. Or perhaps

this depends upon the circumstances themselves,
since a girl too has many calculations to make
and much to take into consideration when she is
called upon to advance herself and her family
by a fortunate marriage.

Rochford could not help feeling that such a
connection would be a fine thing : but it was not
for the connection that Ally Alas dear to him.
He thought of her in his way with subdued
rapture really stronger and more passionate,
though not so engrossing, as her own, as he
dashed along the river-side, his mare almost
flying, his heart going faster, beating with the
hope of a meeting with Ally before he should
see her father  before he set off upon his mission.
If Ally loved him she would find the means, he
thought, to give him that recompense for his
devotion ; and sure enough, as he came in sight
of the gate, he became aware also of a little slim
figure gathering the first snowdrops in the
shadow of the big laurel bushes that screened
the little drive. He flung the reins to his groom
and leaped out of the cart, at imminent risk of
startling the other nervous, highly organised

animal, who had carried him along so swiftly ;
but what did he care for that or any other
risk ?

In a moment, shutting the gate behind him
gingerly, notwithstanding his headlong haste,
that nobody might be aware of his arrival, he
was by Ally's side.

You are gathering flowers. Miss Penton,
already !'

Oh, Mr. Rochford, is it you ? Yes ; they are
earlier here than anywhere. They are only
snowdrops, after all.'

She looked not unlike a snowdrop herself,
with a white wrapper wound round her throat,
and her head, which drooped a little  but not
till after she had recognised him with a rapid
glance and an overwhelming momentary blush
which left her pale.

I could think there would be always flowers
wherever yon trod,' he said.

That's poetry,' she replied, with a little tremulous
laugh, in which there was excitement
and a little nervous shivering from the cold.
It must have been you I heard galloping along,'

she added, hun-idly,  like the wind. Are you
in haste for the train V

I was in haste, hoping for a word With you
before I started.'

My father is expecting you, Mr. Rochford.'

Yes ; I did not mean your father. Won't
you say a kind word to me before I go T

Oh, if I could only thank you as I should
like! Mr. Rochford, I do with my whole
heart.'

It is not thanks I want,' he said. ' Ally 
don't be angry with me  if 1 come back  with
yom' brother.'

Oh, Mr. Rochford, we -ill all  1 don't know
what to say  bless you I'

I don't want blessing ; nor is it the others I
am thinking of. Ally, are you angry f

He had taken in his own her cold hands, with
the snowdrops in them, and was bending over
them. Ally trembled so that she let her flowers
fall, but neither of them paid any attention. He
did not say he loved her, or anything of that
kind, which perhaps the girl expected ; but he
said.

Ally, are you angry V once more.

Oh no she said, in a voice that was no more
than a whisper : and then the sound of a step
upon the gravel made them start asunder.

It was Sir Edward, who had heard the dogcart
coming along the curve by the river, and
who, restless in his anxiety, had come forth to
see who it was. Both Rochford and Ally
stooped down after that little start of separation
to pick up the fallen flowers, and then once
more their hands touched, and the same whisper,
so meaningless yet so full of meaning, was exchanged


If you are not angry, give them to me, Ally 1'

Angry ? no ; why should she be angry ? She
gave him the snowdrops out of her hand, and
while he ran up to meet her father was thankful
to have the chance of stooping to gather up the
rest. It was not so much, after all, that he had
said ; nothing but her name  Ally  and  Are
you angry?' At what should she be angry? 
because he had called her by her name ? It had
never sounded so sweetly, so soft, in her ears
before.

Yes, 1 am on my way to the station. I
came to see if you had any instructions for me ;
if there was any  news, before I go.'

*I don't see how there could be any news,'
said Sir Edward, who had relapsed into something
of his old irritation. ' I didn't expect any
news. If he did not ante at first, do you think
it likely he would write now V

He might do so any day ; every day makes
it more likely that he should do so,' said Rochford,
* in my opinion.'

Ah, you think more favourably than I do,'
said the father, shaking his head, but he was
mollified by the words. He went on shaking
his head. ' As long as he can get on there, I
don't expect him to write. I don't expect him
to come back. I don't think you'll find him
ever so easily as you suppose. But still, you
can try ; I have no objection that you should
try.'

Then there is nothing more to say beyond
what we settled last night f

Nothing that I can think of. His mother, of
course, would have messages to send; she

would wish you to tell him that she was
anxious, and feared his falling ill, and all that ;
but I don't pretend to be unhappy about his
health or  anything of that sort,' said Sir
Edward, hoarsely, with a wave of his hand.
'You can tell him from me that he'd better
come home at once ; we'll be removing presently.
He had best be here when we take possession

of Penton ; he had best  be here But you

know very well what to say  that is, if you
find him,' he added, with a harsh little
laugh, ' which you won't find so easy as you
think.'

I don't suppose it will be easy,' said Rochford
; * but if it can be done I'll do it. I'll stay
till I've done it. I shall not return without
some news.'

Ah, well ; go, go. You are full of confidence,
you young men. You think you've but to say
come," and he will come. You'll know better
when you are as old  as old as I am. Goodbye,
then, if you are going. You'll  look in
as you come back V

I shall come here direct, sh' : and telegraph
as soon as I have anything to say.'

Good-bye, then,' said Sir Edward, stretching
out his hand. He held Rochford for a moment,
shaking his hand in a tremulous way. Then
he said, ' It must be inconvenient, leaving all
your business, going away on this wild goose-chase.'


If it were ever so inconvenient I shouldn't
mind.'

He kept swinging the young man's hand,
sith a pressure which seemed every moment
as though he would throw it away ; then he
murmured in his throat, ' God bless you then I'
and dropped it, and turned back towards the
house.

Rochford was left standing once more by the
side of Ally, with her hands full of snowdrops,
who had followed every word of this little colloquy
With rapt attention. The flowers she had
given him were carefully enclosed in his left
hand ; they were a secret between his love and
him. He did not unfold them even for her to see.

Walk with me to the gate,' he said, ina
voice which was half-entreaty and half-command.


He held out his arm to her, and she took it.
The little authority, the air of appropriation, was
sweet to her as she thought no flattery could
have been.

He will be against me,' said Rochford, holding
her hand close, bending over her in the
shade of the laurels. 'And I don't wonder.
But if I come back successful perhaps they will
think me worthy of a reward. Ally darling,
you thank me for going, when it is all mercenary,
for my own interest '

Oh, no, no  no.'

It is  to win you. I am not good enough
for you, I know that, but I cannot give up
this dear hope. Will you stand by me if they
refuse V

She made no reply. How could she make
ny reply ? She held his arm tight, and drooped
her head. She had never stood against them
in her life. She was aghast at the thought.
Everything in life had been plain to her till now.

But her eyes were dazzled with the sudden new
hight, and the possibility of darkness coming
after it. The confusion of betrothal, refusal,
delight, dismay, all coming together, bewildered
her inexperienced soul.

No, no, no,' she murmured ; ' oh, no ; they
will never be against us.'

No,' he cried, in subdued tones of triumph ;
not against his, if you will stand by me. Ally !
then it is you and I against the world I

And then there was the glitter and gammer
before her eyes, the impatient mare tossing her
nervous head, the wintry sun gleaming in the
harness, in the horse's sleek coat, in the varnish of
the dog-cart: and then the suddenness of sound,
and all was gone like a dream. Like a dream 
like a sudden phantasmagoria, in which she too
had been a vision like the rest, and heard and
saw and done and said things inconceivable.
To turn back after that on everything that wa
so familiar and calm, to remember that she must
go and put into water the snowdrops, which
were already dropping hip in the hand that he
had kissed  that she must face them all iu the

preoccupation of her thoughts  was almost as
wonderful to Ally as this wonderful moment that
was past.

You and I against the world.' And those
other shorter words that meant so little apparently,
' Ally-you are not angry f kept murmuring
and floating about her, making an atmosphere
round her.

Would the others hear her ivhen she went in ?
That fear seized upon Ally as she drew near the
door, coming slowly, slowly along the path.
They would hear the words, ' Ally, are you
angry V but would they know what that meant ?
she said to herself in her dream as she reached
the door. No, no : they might hear them, but
they would not understand  that was her secret
between her love and her. To think that in such
little words, that looked so innocent, everything
could be said !

But nobody took any notice of Ally when
she went in at last. They were all occupied
with their own affairs, and with the one overpowering
sentiment which made them insensible
to other things. Ally went into the midst of

them with her secret in her eyes like a lamp ina
sanctuary, but they never perceived it. She
put her snowdrops in water, all but two or
three which she took to her room with her,
feeling them too sacred even to be worn, even
to be left for Anne to see. But where could she
put them to keep them secret ? She had no
secret places to keep anything in, nor had she
ever known what it was to have a secret in all her
innocent life. How, oh, how was she to keep
this?

CHAPTER XL

ALLY S SECRET.

As a matter-of-fact she did not keep it at all.

The others were very anxious, lost in their
thoughts, their minds all quivering with anxiety
and hope and fear, but still there were moments
when the tension relaxed a little. It was very
highly strung at first while the excitement of
Rochford's departure and of Sir Edward's
encounter with him was still in the air, but
by degrees this died away, and a sense of
increased serenity, of greater hope, released
their souls from that bondage. Lady Penton
after a long silence began again to talk a little
about the new house.

I don't know what we can do with these poor

old things in Penton,' she said ; ' such a beautiful
house as it is, everybody says, and so many
pretty things in it : and all we have is so shabby.
Ally, you are the only one that has seen it.'

'Yes, mother,' said Ally, waking up as from a
dream.

What do you think, my dear ? you ought to
be able to tell me. I suppose there is scarcely a
room in the house so small as this?'

I  don't think I paid any attention.'

No attention !  to a house which was to be
our own house.'

But no one thought then it was to be our own
house,' cried Anne, coming to the rescue. ' And
you know Ally did not enjoy it, mother.'

Oh, yes cried Ally, suddenly waking up,
feeling once more the brightness of pleasure
that had come with the sight of him; how he
had found her neglected, and made a princess of
her, a little queen ! Was it possible that she
could ever have forgotten that ?

Well, not at first said Anne ; ' you didn't like
Cousin Lucia, which I don't wonder at. Mab
didn't like her either. Mother, if Mab comes

VOL. III.

back and insists on coming to live with us, what
shall yoii do V

I wish you would not be so nonsensical,'
said Lady Penton, with a little vexation, ' when
I was talking of the furniture. Why should
Mab ' she paused a moment struck by a recollection,
and then wound up with a sigh and
a shake of her head. * Why should not Walter
have a try?'

The words came back to her mind vaguely,
just clear enough to arouse a keener consciousness
of the prevailing subject which her mind
had put aside for the moment. Ah ! poor Wat !
poor Wat ! how could his mother think of anything
while his fate hung in the balance ?
But then she reflected on the new agent who
had been sent out into the world in search of
him, a young man who knew the ways of young
men. This reflection gave her more comfort
than anything. She clung to the idea that
young men spoke a language of their own
among themselves, and that only they understood
each other's way. She resumed, with
another sigh,

I don't suppose we have anything in our
possession that is fit to be put into the drawing-room,
Ally. I remember it in old days, the very
few times I ever was there : but they say it is far
more splendid now than it was before. Do you
think that chiffonier would do i'

The chiffonier had been the pride of Lady
Penton's heart. It was inlaid and lead a plate-glass
back. She looked at it fondly where it
stood, not very brilliant in fact, but malting the
shabby things around look a little more shabby.
She had always felt it was thrown away amid
these surroundings, and that to see it in a higher
and better sphere would be sweet and consolatory
; but Lady Penton was aware that taste
had changed greatly since that article was constructed,
and that perhaps the decorations of
the great drawing-room at Penton might be
out of harmony with a meuhle belonging to
another generation, however beautiful it might
be in itself.

'I  don't know,' said Ally, looking at the
Avell-known article with her dreamy eyes ;

o2

'there Alas nothing like it  I think: I didn't

notice '

You don't seers to have noticed anything,
my dear,' her mother said.

Oh, if Ally could but say what it was that
had been most delightful to her at Penton ! But
then she remembered with overpowering shame
how she had shrunk from the ladies who had
been so good to her; how she had felt the
elation of her new superiority ; how she had
been a snob in all the horror of the word. And
she was silent, crushed by remorse and confusion.
Fortunately Lady Penton's mind was taken up
by other things.

'I think,' she said, 'the chiffonier will do. It
is large, too large, for this little room ; it will fill
one side of the wall very nicely. And perhaps
some of the chairs, if they are newly covered ;
but, as for curtains and carpets and all that,
everything must be new. It is dreadful to
think of the expense. I don't know how we are
ever to meet it. Ally, what sort of carpets are
there now? Oh, no doubt beautiful Persian
rugs and that sort of thing  simple Brussels

would not do. Is it a polished floor with rugs,
or is it one of those great carpets woven in one

piece, or is it My dear, what's the matter ?

There is no need to cry.'

'I  don't remember  it is so stupid of me,'
said Ally, with the tears in her eyes.

You are nervous and upset this morning ; but
we must try to take a little courage. 1 have
great confidence in Mr. Rochford  oh, great
confidence ! He is very kind and so trustworthy.
You can see that only to look into those nice
kind eyes.'

'Oh, mother dear I' cried Ally, flinging her
arms about Lady Penton's neck, giving her a
sudden kiss. And then the girl sid away, flying
upstairs as soon as she was safely out of sight,
to cry with happiness in her own room where
nobody could see.

There is something the matter with Ally this
morning,' said her mother; 'she is not like
herself.'

She is not at all like herself,' said Anne, vith
a little pursing up of her lips, as one who should
say ' I could an if 1 would.'

'What do you think it is, Anne? Do you
know of anything?'

'I don't know,' said Anne, 'but I guess.
Mother I think it's Mr. Rochford.'

'Mr. Rochford !' Lady Penton cried; and
then in a moment the whole passed before her
like a panorama. How could she have been so
dull ? It had occurred to her as possible before
old Sir Walter's death, and she had not been
displeased. Now things were different ; but
still ' What will your father say V she exclaimed.
' Oh, I am afraid I have been neglecting
Ally thinking of her brother. What will
your father say V

'If that sort of thing is going to be,' said
Anne, sententiously, ' do you think anything can
stop it, mother? I have always heard that the
more you interfere the stronger it becomes. It
has to be if it's going to be.'

Lady Penton did not make any reply to this
wisdom, but she Alas greatly moved. First Walter
and then Ally ! The children become independent
actors in life, choosing their OAvn parts
for good, or, alas ! perhaps for evil. She stole

upstairs after a little interval and softly opened
the door of Ally's room, where the girl was sitting
half crying, smiling, lost in the haze of
novelty and happiness : her mother looked at
her for a moment before she said anything to
make her presence known. x\h, yes, it Alas
very clear Ally had escaped ; she had gone
away from the household in which she was
born, the cares and concerns of which had
hitherto been all the Avorld to her, into another
sphere, a different place, a little universe of her
own, peopled but by the two, the beginners of
a new world.

Lady Penton stood unseen contemplating the
girl's dreamy countenance, so abstracted from
all about her with a complication of new and
strange emotions. Her little girl ! but now
separate, having taken the turn that made her
life a thing apart from father and mother. The
child ! who had in a moment become a woman,
an individual with her fate and future all her
own. The interest of it, the pride of it, in some
respects the pity of it, touches every maturer
soul at such a sight  but when it is a Avoman

looking at her own little girl ! She came into
the room very softly and sat down beside Ally
upon the little white bed and put her tender
arms about the young creature in her trance ;
and Ally, with one low cry, * Mother !' flung
herself upon the breast which had always been
her shelter. And there was an end of the secret
so far as such a secret can be told. The mother
did not want any telling, she understood it
all. But, notwithstanding her sympathy for her
child, and her agreement in Anne's inspiration
and conviction that such a thing has to be if it
is going to be, she kept reflecting to herself,
What will her father say f all the time in her
heart.

This was destined to be a day of excitement
in many ways. Just before the family meal
(which Lady Penton, with a sense of all the
changes now surging upwards in their family
life, had begun to speak of with a little timidity
as ' the children's dinner ') one of the Penton
carriages came to the door, and Mab burst in,
all smiles and delight.

'Am I in time for dinner f she said. ' Oh,

Lady Penton, tou t-iII let me come to dinner?
May I send the carnage away and tell them to
come back for me ? When must they come back
for me ? Oh, if you only knew how I should like
to stay.'

It was very difficult for these kind people to
resist the fervour of this petition.

My dear, of course we are very glad to have
you,' Lady Penton said, with a little hesitation.

And Mab plunged into the midst of the children
with cries of delight on both sides. Holy
possessed himself at once of her hand, and found
her a chair close to his own, and even little
Molly waved her spoon in the stranger's honour,
and changed her little song to ' Made, Made,'
instead of the ' Fader, fader !' which was the
sweetest of dinner-bells to Sir Edward's ears.

When dinner was over, Mab got Lady Penton
into a comer and poured forth her petition.

Oh, may I come and stay I Uncle Russell is
going away, and Aunt Alicia is not at all fond
of me. She would not like it if I went with
them, and where can I go ? My relations are
none of them so nice as you. You took me in

out of kindness when I didn't know where to
go. I have a lot of money, Lady Penton, they
say, but I am a poor Httle orphan girl all the
same.'

Oh, my dear,' said Lady Penton, * nobody
could be more sorry than I am ; and a lot of
money does not do very much good to a little
girl who is alone. But, Mab, I have so many
to think of : and we have not a lot of money,
and we have to live accordingly. Though Sir
Edward has Penton now, that does not make
things better, it rather makes them worse.
Even in Penton we shall live very simply, perhaps
poorly. We cannot give you society and
pleasures like your other friends.'

But 1 don't want society and pleasure. Pleasure
! I should like to take care of Molly, and
make her things and teach her her letters. I
should ; she is the dearest little darling that
ever was. I should like to run about With the
boys. Horry and I are great friends, oh, great
friends. Lady Penton. At Penton you will have
hundreds of rooms ; you can't say it is not big
enough. Oh, let me come ! Oh, let me come !

And then my money ' But here Mab judiciously
stopped, seeing no room for any consideration
about her money. ' You wouldn't
turn me from the door if I was a beggar, a little
orphan,' she cried.

Oh, my dear ! No, indeed, I hope not ; but
this is very different. Mab, though I am not
much set upon money (but I am afraid I am
too, for nothing will go without it), yet a rich
girl is very different from a poor girl. You
know that as well as L'

The poor girl is much better off,' cried Mab,
'for people are kind to her; they take her in,
they let her stay, they are always contriving to
make her feel at home ; but the wretched little
rich one is put to the door. People saj, " Oh, weare
always glad to see you :" but they are not.
Lady Penton I They think, here she comes with
her money. As if I cared about my money !
Take me for Molly's nurse or her governess.
Ally will be going and marrying '

What do you know about that V Lady Penton
said, grasping her arm.

I ! I don't know anything about it ; but of

course she will, and so will Anne ; and it might
happen that you would be glad to have me,
just to look after the children a little after the
weddings were over, and help you with Molly.
Oh, you might, Lady Penton, it is quite possible
; and then you would find out that I am
not a little good-for-nothing. I believe I am
really clever with children,' Mab cried, flinging
herself down on her knees, putting her arms
about Lady Penton's waist. ' Oh, say that I
may stay.'

When she had thus flung herself upon Lady
Penton's lap, Mab suddenly raised her round
rosy cheek to the pale one that bent over her.
They were by themselves in a corner of the
drawing-room, and nobody was near. She said
in a whisper, close to the other's ear,

I saw Mr. Penton in town yesterday. He
was looking quite well, but sad. I was  oh,
very impertinent. Lady Penton. Forgive me.
I stopped the carriage, though I am sure he
did not want to speak to me. I told him that
you were not  quite well  that you were so
pale and that everybody missed him so. Don't

be angTV ! I was very impertinent, Lady Penton.
And he said he was going home directly 
directly, that was what he said. I said yon
would be sure not to tell him in your letters
that you were feeling ill, but that you were.
And so you are, Lady Penton ; you are so pale.
But he is coming directly, that was what he said.'
Oh, my Kttle Mab !' Lady Penton cried. She
gave the little girl a sudden kiss, then put her
hands Hth a soft resoluteness upon Mab's arms
and loosed their clasp. It was as if the girl had
pushed open for a moment a door which closed
upon her again the next. ' Yes,' she said, ' my
son is coming home. He has stayed a little
longer than we expected, but you should not
have tried to frighten him about his mother. I
am not ill. If he comes rushing back before his
business is done, because you have frightened
him about me, what shall we do to you, you
little prophet of evil?' She stooped again and
kissed the girl, giving her a smile as well. But
then she rose from her seat. * As soon as we
get in to Penton, you must come and pay us a
long visit,' she said.

And this made an end of Mab's attempt to
interfere in the affairs of the family of which
she was so anxious to become a member. She
went away to the children with her head hanging,
and in a somewhat disconsolate condition.
But, being seized upon by Horry, who had a great
manufacture of boats on hand, and wanted
some one to make the sails for him, soon forgot,
or seemed to forget, the trouble, and became
herself again.

I am coming to live with you when you goto
Penton,' she said.

Hurrah ! Mab is coming to live with us !'
shouted the little boys, and soon this great piece
of news ran over the house.

Mad's summing ! Mad's summing !' Httle
Molly joined in with her little song.

And this new proposal, which was so strange
and unlikely, and which the elder members
looked upon so dubiously, was carried by acclamation
by the little crowd, so to speak, of
the irresponsible populace  the children of the
house.

The day had been an exhausting day. When

the winter afternoon fell there was throughout
the house more than usual of that depressed and
despondent feeling which is natural to the hour
and the season. Even Mab's going contributed
to this sensation. The hopefulness of the morning,
when all had felt that the sending out of
the new agent meant deliverance from their
anxiety, had by this time begun to sink into the
dreary waiting to which no definite period is
put, and which may go on, so far as anyone
knoAvs, day after day.

Sir Edward had withdrawn to the book-room,
very sick at heart and profoundly disappointed,
disgusted even not to have had a telegram,
which he had expected from hour to hour the
entire day. Rochford had not found Walter,
then, though he was so confident of his superior
knowledge. After all, he had sped no better
than other people. There was a certain solace
in this, but yet a dreary, dreadful disappointment.
He sat over his fire, crouching over it
with his knees up to his chin, cold With the
chill of nervous disquietude and anxiety, listening,
as the ladies had done so long  listening

for the click of the gate, for a step on the
gravel  for anything that might denote the
coming of news, the news which he had never
been able to bring himself, but which Rochford
had been so sure of sending, only, as it seemed,
to fail.

Lady Penton was in the drawing-room. She
spent this dull hour often with her husband, but
to-day she did not go to him. She could not
have been with him and keep Ally's secret, and
she was loth to give him the additional irritation
of this new fact in the midst of the trouble of
the old. She said to herself that if Rochford
succeeded in his search, if he sent news, if he
brought Walter home, that then everything
would be changed ; and in gratitude for such a
service his suit might be received. She did not
wish to expose that suit to an angry objection
now. Poor lady ! she had more motives than
one for this reticence. She would not make
Ally unhappy, and she would not permit anything
to be said or done that might lessen the
energy of the lover who felt his happiness to
depend on his success.

It was because of her habit of spending
this hour between the Hghts in the book-room
with her husband that she was left alone
in the partial dark, before the lamp was brought
or the curtains drawn. She had gone close to
the window when it was too dark to work at
the table, but now her work had dropped on her
lap, and she was doing nothing. Doing nothing !
with so much to think of, so many, many things
to take into consideration. She sat and looked
out on the darkening skies, the pale fading of
the light, the dull whiteness of the horizon, and
the blackness of the trees that rose against it.
The afternoon chill was strong upon her heart ;
she had been disappointed too  she too had
been looking for that telegram, and her heart
had sunk lower and lower as the night came on.
That AValter should be found was what her
heart prayed and longed for, and now there was
another reason, for Ally's sake that the lover
might claim his reward. But the day was nearly
over, and, so far as could be told, the lover
with all his young energy, was as unsuccessful
as Edward himself. So far as this went, their

VOL. III. P

thoughts were identical, but Lady Pentoii, if
less sad, were more complicated, and took in a
closer network of wishes and hopes. She sat at
the window and looked out blankly, now and
then putting up her hand to dry her eyes. She
could cry quietly to herself in the dark, which
is a relief a man cannot have.

What a sad house! with heavy anxiety settling
down again, and the shadow of the night,
in which even the deliverer cannot work, nor
telegrams come. There was a spark of warmer
life upstairs, where the girls had lit their candle,
and where the tremendous secret which had
come to Ally was being shyly contemplated by
both girls together in wonder of so great and
new a thing. And in the nursery there was
plenty of cheerfulness and din. But downstairs
all was very quiet, the father and mother indifferent
rooms thinking the same thoughts.
Lady Penton wept out those few tears very
quietly. There was no sound to betray them.
It had grown very dark in the room, and her
eyes were fixed on the wan light that lingered
outside. She had no hope now for a telegram.

He would not send one so late. He must have
written instead of telegraphing. He had found
nothing, that was clear.

She had said this to herself for the hundredth
time, and had added for perhaps the fiftieth that
it was time to go and dress, that it was of no
use lingering, looking for something that never
came, that she had now a double reason to becalm,
to have patience, to take courage, when it
seemed to her that something, a dark speck,
flitted across the pale light outside. This set
her heart beating again. Could it be the dispatch
after all ? She listened, her heart jumping
up into her ears. Oh ! who was it ?
Nothing ? Was it nothing ? There was no
sound. Yes, a hunted rustle, a faint stii- in
the hall. She rose up. Telegraph-boys make
a great noise, they send the gravel flying,
they beat wild drums upon the doer. Now
there was nothing, or only a something fluttering
across the window, the faintest stir at the
open door.

What was it ? a hand upon the handle turning
doubtfully, slowly ; then it was pushed open.

TO o

Oh, no, no; no telegraph-boy. She flew forward
with her whole heart in her outstretched
hands. Some one stood in the dark, looking
in, saying nothing, only half visible, a shadow,
no more.

Wat I Wat V the mother cried.

CHAPTER Xll.

THE FINAL BLOW,

What does it matter what a mother says? especially
when she is a powdered and loaded
woman like Mrs. Sam Rochford; altogether
unable to comprehend, much less interpret, the
fair and brilliant creature who is her daughter.
How strange that anything so sweet and delightful
as Emmy should come from such a
woman  one from whom the heart recoiled, who
was offensive to every sense, with those white,
unwholesome, greasy hands, the powder, the
scent, the masses of false hair, the still falser
and more dreadful smile.

Walter said to himself as he left her, with
that nausea which always overwhelmed him at

the sight of her, that he would not take what
she said as having anything to do with Emmy.
No ; her existence was a sort of an offence to
Emmy ; it might, if that were possible, throw
a cloud over her perfection, it might make a
superficial admirer pause to think, could she
ever in her young beauty come to be like that?
A superficial admirer, Walter said to himself 
not, of course, a true lover such as he was, to
whom the suggestion was odious and abominable.
Like that ! oh, never, never ! for Emmy
had soul, she had heart in her loveliness ; never
could the actress have resembled her, never
could she resemble the actress. He wondered
if that woman could be her mother. Such
people stole children, they got hold of them in
strange ways. Emmy might have been taken
in her childhood from some poor mother of a
very different kind. She might have strayed
away from her home and been found by vagrants
anything rather than believe that she was
that woman's daughter, who, to crown all her
artificialities, was mercenary too. Or, even if it
might really be so, what did it matter ? is there

not often no resemblance between the mother
and the child, the mother elderly, faded, meretricious,
trying hard to keep up an antiquated
display of dreadful charms, seductions that filled
the mind with loathing ; the daughter, oh, so
different, so young and fresh, so full of youth
and sweetness and everything that is delightful,
everything that is most fascinating.

When he thought of Emmy, the young man's
heart, which had been so outraged, grew soft
again. If it came to a decision, how very different
would Emmy's deliverance be. Yet
Emmy had discouraged him too, she had thought
of secondary things. She had been sorry that
he should lose anything for her sake, he who
was so ready to lose all. She had even scoffed
a little sweetly at his fortune, the ten thousand
pounds, which would not, she declared, be more
than four hundred a year. Four hundred a year
would be plenty, Walter thought ; they could
live somewhere quietly in the depths of the
country enjoying each other's society, desiring
nothing else to make them happy. Would
Emmy care for that? she who so loved London.

A number of people loved London so, did not
know what to do out of it, people who were the
very best, the most highly endowed of all,
poets, philosophers  it was no reproach to her
that she should be among that number. He
was not one of them himself, but then he was,
he knew, a dull fellow, a rustic.

Poor Walter went about the streets all day
thinking these thoughts. He knew he was not
so clever as she was ; but yet they had always
understood each other : not like that dreadful
woman whom nothing could make him understand.
He would not accept her decision,
whatever she said  he would not believe her
even  probably what she had said about his
father was untrue ; how should his father have
got there ? No, no, it was not true, any more
than it was true that Emmy had permitted her
mother to interfere. There was some one else
whom the old woman preferred, he said, miserably,
to himself, and that was the entire cause
of it, not that Emmy meant to cast him off  oh,
no, no !

But it was two or three days after this before

he succeeded in seeing her. Either there was a
conspiracy on her mother's part, into which she,
guileless, fell, or else the mother had acquired
an ascendancy over her, and was able to curb
the natural instincts, to restrain the sweeter
impulses of her daughter. That it could be
Emmy's fault he would not allow. He haunted
the place morning and evening, and on Saturday
afternoon, which had been his moment of
bliss.

It vas on that day that he met her at last. He
met her hurrying out, dressed as she usually was
when he was allowed to take her to the country,
or to make some expedition with her. She had
just stopped to call out something before closing
the door about the hour of her return  he
thought he heard her say nine o'clock, and it
was little past noon. She was going somewhere,
then, but not T\'ith him. He turned after
her as she went lightly along, with the easy
skimming step which he had so often compared
with every poetic movement under heaven. I
filled him \th despair to see it now, and to feel
that she was going along like this, upon some

other expedition, not in his company, though
she must know to what darkness of despondency
and solitude she was leaving him.

'Emmy,' he cried, hurrying after her. He
thought she started a little, but only quickened
her pace. She was not, however, to escape him
so  that was a vain expectation on her part. He
quickened his pace too, and came up to her,
close to her, and caught at her elbow in his eagerness
and impatience. She turned round upon
him with a face very unlike that which had
so often smiled upon the foolish boy. She
plucked her arm away from his touch.

Oh,' she said, with a tone of annoyance,
you here !'

Where should I be, Emmy, but where you
are? You were going to send for me, to meet
me '

She looked at him with impatience.

No,' she said, ' I wasn't going to do anything
of the kind ; I have got something very different
to do.'

I have always been ready to do whatever
you wanted,' he said, 'to go where you pleased.

and you know this has been my reward  this
Saturday afternoon, after waiting, waiting, day
by clay '

Who wanted you to wait ? Mr. Penton, that
was your doing. You must understand that I'm
not going to be made a slave to you.'

A slave,' cried the poor boy, ' to me !'
Well, what is it better ? I can't move a step
but you are at my heels. What I've always
held by is doing what I like and going where I
like. I never could put up with bondage and
propriety like some people ; but you dog my

steps, you watch everything I do '

Emmy !'

Well I is that all you have to say ? Emmy !
yes, that's my name ; but you can't crush me by

saying " Emmy I" to me,' she said, with a little
breathless gasp, as of one who had seized the
opportunity to work herself up into a fit of calculated
impatience. She stopped here, perhaps
moved by his pale face, and ended by a little
laugh of ridicule. ' Well, that's natural enough,
don't you think V

I don't know what is natural,' he said. ' I

have thrown off all that. Emmy, are you going
to abandon me after all ?

 After all !  after what ? I suppose you mean
after all the great things you've done forme?
What has it been, Mr. Penton ? You've followed
me here, you've watched me that I couldn't take
a step or speak a word. No, I am not going
with you any more. You must just make up your
mind to it, Mr. Walter Penton. I've got other
things in hand. I've other  I've  well, let us be
vulgar,' she cried, with a wild little laugh, ' I've
got other fish to fry.'

The poor young fellow kept his eyes fixed
upon her  eyes large with dismay and trouble.

You are not going with me any more ! You
can't mean it !  you don't mean it, Emmy !'

But I do. It's been all nonsense and romance
and folly. I didn't mind just for amusement.
But do you think I am going to let
you, with next to nothing, and expectations 
expectations ! what could your expectations be ?
your father may live for a century ! Do you
think I am going to let you stand in my way,
and keep me from what's better ? No  and no

again, and again. I mean nothing of the sort
I mean what's best for myself. I am not going
with you any more.'

*Not going with me !' he said, in a voice of
misery ; * then what is to become of me ?  what
am I to do V

Oh, you'll do a hundred things,' she said,
tapping him on the arm ; ' go home, for one
thing, and make your peace. It's far better for
you. It's been folly for you as well as me. Go
and take care of your ten thousand pounds. Ten
thousand pounds! What do you think of as
much as that a year? Take care of it, and
you'll get a nice little income out of it, just
enough for a young man about town. And
don't be tyrannized over by your people, and
don't let anyone say a word about manning.
You're too young to be married. I'm your only
real friend, Walter. Yes, I am. I tell you, don't
think of marrying  why should you many ? 
but just have your fling and get a little fun
while you can. That's my advice to you.'

He walked on with her mechanically, not able
to speak, until she got impatient of the silent

figure stalking by her side, struck dumb with
youthful passion and misery.

She stopped suddenly and confronted him
with hasty determination.

You're not,' she said, ' coming another step
with me !'

Where am I to go ? what am I to do ? I
have lived,' he cried, ' only for you !'

Then it's time to stop that !' she said. ' Go
away  go clean away ; it will  it will damage
me if you're seen with me ! Now there, that's
the truth I I was so silly as to stop it for your
sake before, now I've learned better. Mr. Pen-ton,
it will be harming me if you come another
step. Now, do you understand f

Did he understand ? He stopped, and gazed
at her with his blank face.

It will be harming you ! But you belong tome,
you are going to be my wife !'

No, no, no !' she cried ; ' that is all folly ; I
never meant it. Good-bye, and for heaven's
sake go away, go away !'

She gave an alarmed glance round towards
the end of the street. It seemed to Walter that

he too saw something vaguely  a tall spidery
outline, a high phaeton, or something of the
sort. She broke into a little run suddenly,
waving her hand to him.

Good-bye !' she cried ; ' good-bye ; go away I'
and left him standing stupefied with wonder,
with incredulous conviction, if such words can
be put together.

He felt in the depths of his heart that sh e had
abandoned him, but he could not believe it.
No, he could not believe it, though he knew it
was true. A sort of instinct of chivalry lingered
in the poor lad's heart, wrung and bleeding
as it was. He could not harm her, he could
not spy on her, he could not interfere with her
will, whatever she might do to him. He turned
his back upon the spidery tall phaeton. If that
was the thing that was to carry her away from
him he would not spy, he would not put himself
in her way. So long as she did what she liked
best ! He turned with his heart bleeding, yet
half stupefied with trouble, and walked away.

Poor Walter walked and walked all the rest
of the afternoon : he did not know where he

went or how, his mind was stupid with suffering.
And then came Snnda}, when without
her the blank was more complete than on any
other day. He had not the heart even to seek
another interview. On Sunday afternoon he
went past the house, and the high phaeton stood
at the door. What more could be said 1 And
yet another day or two passed, he did not know
how many, before Mab stopped the little
brougham in which she was driving and called
to him in the street as he went mooning along
with his head down in dull and helpless despondency.


Mr. Penton ! Mr. Penton !'

The little soft voice calling him roused Walter
from the stupor of his despair. He knew nobody
in town. It was a wonder to him that
anyone should know him  should take the
trouble to call him. And then Mab's little fresh
face stabbed him with innocent cheerful looks.
He was not learned enough to know that these
innocent looks knew a great deal, and suspected
much more harm than existed, in their precocious
society knowledge.

Mab was bent upon doing what she could to
bring him back, and she fully realised all the
difficulty ; but she looked like a child delighted
to see her country acquaintance.

'And oh, how is Lady Penton V she cried.

'My mother?' gasped Walter, taken altogether
by surprise.

Then Mab told him that little story about
Lady Penton's health.

She will of comes make light of it when she
writes,' said the artful little girl. ' Bnt oh, she
looks so ill and so pale I' (' So she does,' the
little romancer said to herself, in her heart ; ' it
is quite, quite true I') ' Oh, Mr. Penton, do
make her see the doctor I do make her take care
of herself! You could do it better than anyone
 because you know the others don't notice
the great, great change; they see her every day.'

'I wiUI' cried poor Wat. 'Thank you 
thank you a thousand times for telling me !'

It gave him a reason for going home, and he
did so want a reason, poor boy ! His own
wretchedness did not seem cause enough ; and
how was he ever to be forgiven for what he had

VOL. III. Q

done ? But bis mother ! He would not wait
to think, he would not let himself consider the
matter. His mother ! And what if she should
die ! Death had never entered that happy
house. It seemed to him the most horrible of
all possibilities. He did not even pause to go
back to his hotel. Oh, how glad he was of the
compulsion, to be thus sent home, to have a
reason for going ! He went flying, without
taking time for thought.

And when Lady Pentou threw herself upon
him, calling ' Wat, Wat !' with that great outcry,
he forgot all about his wrong-doing and his
need of pardon. He caught her in his arms and
cried,

Mother, are you ill?  mother, are you better?'
as if there were no other trouble or anxiety but
this in the world.

Oh, Wat ! oh, Wat!' she cried, unable on her
side to think of anything but that he had come
back and she had him in her arms again ; and
for a minute or two no more was said. Then
he led her tenderly back to a chair and placed
her in it, and knelt down beside her.

< Mother, you have been ill '

No ; oh no, my dear.' And then she remembered
Mab's little alarm (dear Httle Mab ! if it
should be her doing). ' At least,' she said, ' my
dearest boy, there is nothing the matter with
me that the sight of you will not cure.'

Oh, mother,' he cried, ' that you should
have to say that, that I should have been the
cause '

Hush, hush,' she said, pressing him to her ;
it is all over, AVat, my own boy. You have
come home.'

She asked him no questions, she did not even
say that he was forgiven ; and the youth's heart
swelled high.

I think I have been mad,' he said.

But she only replied, kissing him,

My own boy, you have come home.'
And what more was there to be said ?

This transport all passed in the dark, with no
light in the room except the paleness of twilight
in the windows, the dull glow from the fire,
which was an ease and softening to the meeting.
And then with the lighting of the cheerful

q2

lamps the knowledge spread through the house
Wat has come home.

'Already!' cried Ally, with a flush of radiant
joy that was more than for her brother.

Already,' Sir Edward said, with a frown that
belied the sudden ease of his heart. To say
what that relief was is beyond the power of
words. The dark book-room, where he sat
with his head in his hands and all the world
dark round him, suddenly became light. A load
was lifted from his shoulders and from his soul ;
his mind was freed as from chains. But after
that first blessed release and relief a sensation
of humiliation, almost of resentment, came into
his mind. ' Already,' he said. He had tramped
about London for days and days and found
nothing. Kochford had gone and seen and overcome
the same day.

Edward,' said Lady Penton, who, though so
still, so tremulous after the prodigal's return,
had yet felt the other anxiety spring up as
soon as the first was laid, ' 1 am sorry for
Mr. Rochford. I fear he was making this
the foundation for a great many hopes. He

expected to find Walter and bring him home,
and thus gain our favour for  something-else.'


AVell,' said Sir Edward, with his frown, ' it is
astonishing to me how he's done it. It looks like
collusion. I suppose it's only a piece of luck, a
great piece of luck.

He has not done it at all,' said Lady Pent on,
Wat has not so much as seen him. He has had
nothing to do with it at all.'

The cloud rolled off Sir Edward's brow : he
gave expression to the delightful relief of his
mind in a low laugh.

I thought,' he said, ' nothing would come of
it, he was so cock-sure. I thought from the
first nothing would come of it : but of course
you were all a great deal wiser than I. So he
came home of himself when he was tired ? Let
me see the boy.'

CHAPTER XIII.

NO LONGER COCK-SURE.

Rochford came back in a sadly humbled condition
of mind. He was indeed summoned back
by a telegram which told him that all was welland
his services unnecessary, and returned
trailing his arms, so to speak, very much cast
down, beginning to say to himself that the
Reading solicitor was not at all likely to be
considered a fit match for Sir Edward Penton's
daughter now that all chance of special service
to the family was over. Young idiot! why,
after staying away so long, could not he have
stayed a little longer ? Why not have helped
somebody by his folly instead of simply dropping
from the skies when it suited him in his egotism
and selfishness ?

Rochford came back deeply humiliated, deeply
despondent. He too had tramped about London
one weary and dismal day, and with disgust
had recognised that his mission was not so easy
as he had supposed. He had gone to the postoffice
which Walter had given as his address,
and had made what inquiries were possible, and
then had hung about, hoping that Walter would
come to fetch his letter, like those sportsmen
who hang about the pools where their big game
go to drink. But no one came : and in the
morning had arrived that telegram 

 All cell ; further search unnecessary. Has
returned home'

Confound him I Why, after making everybody
miserable, could he not have stayed another
day ?

Rochford came home very despondent, taking
the blackest view of affairs. If he had but acted
with more prudence in the end of the year  if he
had but pushed on matters and got that bargain
accomplished before Sir AValter had been stricken
with his last illness !  then the Pentons, though
they would still have had the baronetcy, would

not have been a great county family, and Ally,
without fortune to speak of, would have made
no mesalliance in marrying a man who could
keep her in luxury, though he was but the
family man of business. But now, though the
fortune was scarcely greater, the position was
very different. The mother was very artless,
but still she knew enough to know that girls
so attractive, with the background of Penton
behind them, even if they had not a penny,
were not to be thrown away on men like
himself.

Such was the tenor of his thoughts as he
came back. He had expected to return with
trumpets sounding and colours fleeing, bringing
back in triumph the wanderer, and having a
certain right to his recompense. He came now
silent and shamed, an officious person who had
offered more than he could perform, who had
thrust his services upon those who did not require
them. He had not even the courage to
see Ally before he went in humbled to her father.
It was his duty to tell Sir Edward all that had
happened, but he had scarcely a doubt as to

what must follow. He would be sent away, he
felt sure ; probably he would not be allowed to
speak to her at all  he the man of business, and
she the princess royal, the eldest daughter of
the house.

But, to his relief as well as surprise, Sir Edward
met him with an unclouded countenance.
He gave him a warm grasp of the hand. He
said,

*Well, Rochford, all's well that ends well.
You see, it was all settled more easily than you
supposed.'

You can't doubt. Sir Edward, that I am most
glad it should be so.'

Oh, yes, I'm sure you are ; glad  but a little
disappointed, eh ?  it's quite natural : you were
so cock-sure. That is the worst of you young
men. You think we elder ones are all ninnies ;
you think we don't know what we are about.
And you are so certain that you sometimes take
us in, and we think so too. But you see you
are wrong now and then,' said Sir Edward, with
high satisfaction, * and it turns out that it is we
who are in the right.'

Rochford did not fail to remark to himself in
passing, that though he might be wrong he
saw very little reason for the assertion that Sir
Edward was right. But he was too much cast
down for argument. He said,

The chief thing is that your anxiety is relieved.
I am very glad of that  though I should
have liked better to have had a hand in doing
it.' And then he drew himself together as best
he could. ' There is another subject, Sir Edward,
that I wished to speak to you about.'

Yes, very likely ; but you must hear first
about Walter. So far as I can make out, it has
been a mere escapade, and he has been mercifully
saved from committing himself, from 
compromising his future. We can't be thankful
enough for that. He comes back free as he
went away, and having learned a lesson, I hope,
an important lesson. We mean to say nothing
about it, Rochford. You'll not take any notice :
I'm sm-e we can trust in you.'

I hope so,' said the young man ; and then
he repeated, ' Sir Edward, there is another
subject '

You don't look,' said Sir Edward, rubbing
his bands with internal satisfaction, ' so cocksure
about that.'

This was not very discouraging il" he had
retained sufficient presence of mind to see it.
But he was out of heart as well as out of confidence,
and everything seemed to him to be of
evil augury.

No, indeed,' he said, ' I am far from being
sure. I feel that what I am going to ask will
seem to you very presumptuous : and if it were
not that my whole heart is in it and all my
hopes '

Ah, you use such words lightly, you young-men
'

I don't use them lightly. If I could help it
I would put ofi" speaking to you. I would thy
whether it were not possible to find some way
of recommending myself  of making you think
a little better of me.'

If you suppose,' cried Sir Edward, benignly,
that I think less of you because you were not
successful about Walter you are quite mistaken,
Rochford. You bad not time to do anything.

He left town almost as soon as yoii arrived in
it. 1 never expect impossibilities, even when
they are promised,' he added, with a nod of his
head.

It is I that am looking for impossibilities. Sir
Edward. I can't think how I could have been
so bold. I have been letting myself think that
perhaps  that if you could be got to take it
into consideration  that, in short '

And Mr. Kochford, crimsoning, growing pale,
changing from one foot to another, looking all
embarrassment and awkwardness, came to a
dead stop and could find nothing more to say.

What is it? You seem to have great difficulty
in getting it out. What have I in my
power that is so important, and that you are so
shy about V

I am shy, that is just the word. You will
think me  I don't know what you will think
me '

Get it out man. I can't tell till I know.'

Sir Edward,' said Rochford, more and more
embarrassed, ' your daughter '

Oh, my daughter ! Is that how it is ?'

It is not to be supposed that a clay had elapsed
after Walter's return and the relief of mind
that followed it without some communication
passing between Lady Penton and her husband
on the second of the subjects that had excited
her so deeply.

Sir Edward,' said the young man, ' Miss
Penton's family and position are of course
superior to mine. It all depends on the way
these matters are looked upon. Some people
would consider this an insuperable obstacle.
Some do not attach much importance to it.
Ideas have changed so much on this subject.
My grandfather, as perhaps you are aware,
man-hed a Miss Davenport of Doncaster. But I
don't know how you may look on that sort of
thing.'

I don't exactly see the connection,' said Sir
Edward ; * your grandfather's marriage was a
good while ago.'

Yes, when prejudices were a gi-eat deal
stronger than now. Though they exist in some
places, I have the strongest reason to believe
that among the best people they are no longer

held as they used to be. Eva Milton married a
Manchester man that had no education to speak
of at all.'

Are you arguing the question on abstract
principles?' said Sir Edward, who was nursing
his foot, and looking half-amused, half-bored.
His companion was too anxious to be able to
judge what this look meant, and he was sadly
afraid of irritating the authority in whose hands
his happiness lay.

Oh, no, not at all,' he cried, anxiously ; ' I
wanted to remind you, sir, that it was not the
first time that such things had been done before.
It's no abstract question : all that I look forward
to in life depends on it. I am not badly
off, as I can prove to you if you will let me. I
could keep my wife, if I had the good fortune
to  to  make sure of that  surrounded by
everything that belongs to her sphere. There
should be nothing wanting in that way. I
could make settlements that would be, I thinly,
satisfactory.'

'Is that how soli talked to Ally?' said Sir
Edward, a perception of the humour of the

situation breaking in. ' How astonished she
must have been I'

His mind was so unusually at ease that he
was ready to smile even in the midst of an important
arrangement like this.

*To Ally I' cried Rochford, startled by the
reference, and in his confusion enable to see
how much it was in his favour. ' No, sir,' he
said, eagerly, ' not a word ! Do you think I
would fret her delicate mind with any such suggestions
? Xo. She is far above all that. She
knows nothing about it. I may not be worthy
of her, but at least I know how to appreciate her.
She has heard nothing like this from me.'

But I suppose you must think that what you
did say was not without effect, and that the
appreciation is not all on your side ? You don't
mind fretting my delicate mind, it appears,' said
Sir Edward ; and then, in a sharper tone, ' How
far has this matter gone V

Sir Edward,' stammered the young man :
his anxiety stupefied instead of quickening his
senses, he seemed able to perceive nothing that
was not against him, ' I  I '

You don't give me very much information
repeated the father. 'Can't you tell me how
far this matter has gone V

Rochford was a keen man of business. He
was not to be overpowered by the most powerful
judge or the most aggravating jury. He
was in the habit of stating very clearly what he
wanted to say. But now he stood before this
tribunal stammering, without a word to say for
himself.

Sir Edward,' he repeated, ' if I had taken
time to think I should have felt that you ought
to have been consulted first. But in an unguarded
moment  my  my feelings got the
better of me. I saw her unexpectedly alone.
And then,' he added, with melancholy energy,
I thought, I confess, that if I could be of use, if
1 could find and bring back '

I see,' said Sir Edward, ' that was why you
undertook so much. It was scarcely very
straightforward, was it, to profess all that
interest in the brother when it was the sister you
were thinking of all the time V

Perhaps it might not be straightforward,'

owned the unsuccessful one ; ' and yet,' after a
pause, ' it was no pretence. I was interested,
if you will let me say so, in  all the family, Sir
Edward : I should have been too glad  to be
of any use ; even if there had been no  even if
there had not existed  even if '

I see,' said the stern judge again : and then
there was a dreadful pause.

Circumstances alter much, but not even the
advanced views of the nineteenth century can
alter the position in which a young lover stands
before the father of the girl he loves  a functionary
perhaps a little discredited by the march
of modern ideas, but who nevertheless has still
an enormous power in his hands, a power which
the feminine heart continues to believe in, which
is certainly able to cause a great deal of discomfort
and inconvenience, if nothing else.

Rochford stood thoroughly cowed, with his
eyes cast down, before this great arbiter of fate,
although after a while, as the silence continued,
there began to crop up in his mind suggestions,
resolutions: how nothing should make him
resign his hopes, how only Ally herself could

VOL. III. R

loose the bond between them, how he would
take courage to say to the father that, however
much they respected him, his decision would not
be absolute, that on the contrary it could be
resisted, that the two whose happiness was involved
 that the two  the twowords which
made his heart jump with a sudden throb in
the midst of this horrible uncertainty  would
stand against the world together not to be
sundered. All these heroic thoughts gathered
in his mind as he stood awaiting the tremendous
parental decision, which came in a form so
utterly unexpected, so bewildering, that he
could only gasp, and for a moment could
not reply. This was what Sir Edward said : 

You know, I suppose, that my girls will have
no money, Rochford?'

Sir I' cried the lover, with a burst of pent-up
breath which seemed to carry away with
it the burden of a whole lifetime of care from
his soul.

They will have no money. I am a poor man,
and have always been so all my life. If you
have not known that before, you will have to

know it now in your capacity (as you say) of
the Penton man of business. To keep up Pen-ton
will tax every resource. We shall be rather
poorer, my wife thinks, than we have been at
the Hook ; and as for the girls '

Do you mean that that's all T cried the
young man. ' You don't make any  other
objection ? What do you think I'm made of i
I don't want any money, Sir Edward. Money !
when there is Miss Penton  Ally, if I may call
her so. How shall I ever thank you enough 1
I have plenty of money ; it's not money I want,
it's  it's '

Words failed him : he stood and swung Sir
Edward's hand, who looked not \-ithout a glow
of pleasurable feeling at this young fellow who
beamed with gratitude and delight. It is never
unpleasant to confer so great a favour. This
had not been generally the position in which
fate had placed Edward Penton. It had
been usually the other way. He had received
few blessings, even from the beggars, having so
little to give ; but an emperor could not have
conceited a gi-eater gift than his daughter, a

e2

spotless little princess of romance, a creature
altogether good and fair and sweet. He felt
the water come into his eyes out of that simple
sense of munificence and liberal generosity.

I think,' he said, * you're a good fellow,
Rochford, and that you'll be good to little iVlly.
She's too young for anything of the kind, but
her mother sees no objection. And she ought
to knows best.'

CHAPTER XIV.

THE FATE OF THE CHIFFONIER.

The family of Penton Hook took possession of
the great house of Penton in the spring. It
need scarcely be said that there were endless
consultations, discussions, committees of ways
and means of every imaginable kind before this
great removal was accomplished. Lady Penton's
first visit to her new home was one which
was full of solemnity. It was paid in much
state, a visit of ceremony, greatly against the
wish both of the visitors and the visited, before
the Russell Pentons withdrew from the great
house.

'We must go to bid them good-bye,
Sir Edward said. ' We must not fail in any
civility.'

Do you call that civility ? She will hate the
sight of us. I should myself in her place,' Lady
Panton cried.

But he had his way, as was to be expected.
They drove to Penton in the new carriage,
which Lady Penton could not enjoy for thinking
how much it cost, behind that worthy and
excellent pair of brown horses, more noted for
their profound respectability and virtue than
for appearance or speed, which Sir Edward had
consented to buy with some mortification, but
which his wife approved as a pair, without
much knowledge of the points in which they
were defective. He knew that Russell Penton
set them down as a pair of screws at the first
glance ; but Lady Penton, who had never
possessed a pair of horses before, was quite
impervious to this, and appreciated the grandeur,
though never without a pang at the cost.

But the sight of the great drawing-room
overwhelmed the visitor. The first coup coil
of the beautiful, vast room, with its row of
pillars, its vast stretches of carpets, its costly
furniture, so stupefied her, that the sight of Mrs.

Russell Poitou herself in her deep mourning,
and that look of injured majesty of which she
could not, with all her efforts, divest herself,
failed to produce the effect which otherwise it
must have had. Lady Penton had fully intended
to take no notice, to banish if possible from her
face all appearance of curiosity or of the natural
investigation which a first 'isit to the house
which was to be her own would naturally give
rise to ; but she could not quite conceal the
startled dismay of her first glance  a sentiment
which was more agreeable to the previous
mistress of the house than any other would
have been. It was not very amiable, perhaps,
on the part of Mrs. Russell Penton, to be pleased
that her successor should thus be overwhelmed
by the weight of the inheritance  but perhaps
it was natural enough.

It was not possible that the conversation
should be otherwise then restrained and difficult.
Russell Penton, as usual, threw himself into the
breach. He entered into a lively description of
their plans of travel.

We both of us love the sunshine,' he said ;

England is the noblest of countries, but she is
far away from the centre of warmth and light.
There is no saying how far we may go southwards
before we come back.'

But you were always fond of home, Alicia,'
said (this being, of course, as all his companions
remarked, the very last thing that ought to
have occurred to him to say) the new proprietor
of Penton.

Home, I suspect,' she said, in her formal
way, ' is more where one chooses to make it
than I have hitherto thought.' And then there
was a pause.

The weather will be quite delightful by this
time in Italy, I suppose,' said Lady Penton,
timidly. 'I have never travelled at all; we
have never had it in our power ; but it seems
as if it should always be fine there.'

'It is not, though. There is no invariable
good Weather,' said Russell Penton. *It
generally turns out to be exceptional, and
just as bad as what you have left, wherever
you go.'

He had forgotten his little flourish of trumpets

about the sunshine ; and again they all
sat silent, gazing at each other for a few
terrible moments, asking each other on each
side, Why did they come ? and, Why did we
come?

The river has kept in tolerable bounds this
year,' said Russell Penton, catching at a new
subject, ' no doubt because we have had less
rain than usual. Come to the window, and let
me show you the vicar.' He led Lady Penton
to the farther end of the room, where a side
Window commanded the whole range of the
river, with the red roofs of Penton Hook making
a spot of warm colour low down by the side of
the stream. ' I am glad you see it before anything
is disturbed,' he said ; ' an empty house is
always a sight of dismay.'

Oh, I wish it were never to be disturbed at
all I' cried the poor lady ; ' I feel a dreadful
impostor  a usurper  as if we were taking it
from its rightful owner. It is all so suitable to
her, and she to it she continued, casting an
alarmed, admiring look to where the mistress of
the house sat, an imposing figure, all crape and

jet, like a queen about to abdicate, but not with
her will.

Yes, for she has made it all,' said the Prince
Consort of the place ; ' but so will it be suitable
to you when you have re-made it, Lady Penton ;
and, if it is any consolation to you to know, I
shall be a much happier man out of this house.
After a Awhile I believe everything will be
brighter for us both. But don't let us talk of
that. We have all had enough of the subject.
Tell me what you are going to do about
Mab, who has fallen so deeply ia love with you
all.'

She is a dear little girl,' said Lady Penton.
I have asked her to come and pay us a long-visit.'


That is very kind ; but pray remember that
it would be still kinder to her to let her be with
you as she wishes. She has more money thana
little girl ought to have. It will be good and
kind in every way.'

Lady Penton shook her head as he went on
talking. Some people are proud in one way
and some in another. She did not think much

of Mab's money. She was read to open her
heart to the orphan girl, but not to profit by her.
They stood in the window with the gi-eat landscape
before there, and the great room behind,
which was too splendid even for that chiffonier ;
and involuntarily Lady Penton's mind went back
to that overwhelming question of the furniture.
which was so much more important than little
Mab and her fortune. To think of bringing
anything from the Hook here ! The chairs and
tables would be lost, even if they were not so
shabby. Nothing would bear transplanting but
the children, ' And you can't furnish a house
with children,' she said, ruefully, to herself.

Your wife, no doubt, will alter everything
said Mrs. Russell Penton, following the other
pair with her eyes.

*How could you think so, Alicia? It shall
be altered as little as possible. Everything
that belongs to the past is as dear to me as to
you.'

I said your wife,' said Alicia. And then she
added, ' No doubt she would like to go over
the house.'

She wishes nothing, I am sure, that would
vex you,' Sir Edward said.

Vex ! I hope I have not so Httle self-command.
The place has become indifferent indeed
to me. It was dear by association, but now
that's all ended. One ends where another begins.
I can only hope, Edward, that your branch of the
family will be more fortunate  more  than ours
have been.'

Thank you, Alicia. I hope that you maybe
very happy, Russell and you. He's as good
a fellow as lives ; and, I am sure, a delightful
companion to be alone with.'

Are you recommending my husband to me V
she said, with one of those smiles which made
her cousin, whose utterances certainly were
very inappropriate, shrink into himself. ' Don't
you think 1 ought to know better than anyone
what a delightful companion he is ? And I hear
you are to have a marriage in your family.
Harry Rochford will, I hope, prove a delightful
-companion too.'

He is a good fellow,' said poor Sir Edward,
able to think of no more original phrase. ' He is

not quite iu the position a Penton might have

looked for '

Oh,' she cried, hastily, * what does that
matter ?  there are Pentons and Pentons. And
your daughter, Edward  your daughter '

I am sorry you don't think well of my
daughter, Alicia.'

I never said so. She is very pretty, and
what people call sweet. I know no more of
her; how could I? 1 was going to say she
looked unambitious. And against Harry Rochford
there is not a word to be said. Don't
you think your wife would like to see over the
house ?'

This is how they parted, without any warm
rapprochement ; though Alicia, with her usual
consciousness of her own faults and her husband's
opinion, involuntarily condemned every
word she herself said, and everything she did,
while she almost forced Lady Penton from one
room to another, each of which filled that poor
lady with deeper and deeper dismay. But, notwithstanding
this secret cmTent of self-disapproval,
and notwithstanding the certainty she

had of what her husband felt on the subject,
there was a certain stern pleasure in bidding her
supplanters good-bye on the threshold of the
house that was still her own ; dismissing them,
o to speak, for the last time from Penton with
a keen sense of the despondency and discouragement
with which they went away. She
took notice of everything as she did them that
unusual honour, which was an aggravation
under the circumstances, of accompanying them
to the door : of the pair of screws  of the absence
of any footman  and, still more, of the depressed
looks of the simple pair. All these things gave
her a thrill of satisfaction. Who were they, to
be the possessors of Penton ? They did not
even appreciate it  did not admire it  thought
of the expense ! But she went upstairs again
with her husband following her, feeling more
like a culprit, a school-boy who is expecting a
lecture, than it was consistent with Alicia's
dignity to feel. Russell did not say anything ;
but he showed inclinations to whistle, as it were,
under his breath.

I am very glad that is over,' she said.

So am I,' he replied.

'I know what you think, Gerald  that I
ought to be more sympathetic. In what way
could I be sympathetic ? She is buried in calculations
as to how they are to live here ; and
he '

1 respect her calculations,' said Russell Pen-ton.
' It is a dreadful white elephant to come
into the poor lady's hands.'

And yet you scarcely concealed your pleasure
when it passed away from me  to whom it has
always been a home so dear.'

I never stand on my consistency, Alicia. I
am glad and sorry about the same thing, you
see. I am sorry that you are sorry to go away,
yet I can't help being glad that you are freed
from the bondage of this place, which has been
a kind of idol to you all ; and I am glad they
have it, yet sorry for poor Lady Penton and her
troubled looks. When we go away from Pen-ton,
I shall feel as if we were starting for our
honeymoon.'

Don't say so, Gerald  when you think how
it is that this has come about.'

It has come about by a great grief, my
darling, yet a natural one  one that could not
have been long averted. And I hope you don't
object, Alicia, now that you have fulfilled your
duty to the last detail, that your husband should
be glad to have you more his own than Penton
would ever have permitted you to be.'

She accepted the kiss he gave her, not without
a sense of the sweetness of being loved, but
yet with a consciousness that when he spoke of
her fulfilling her duty to the last detail he implied
a certain satisfaction in having got rid of
that duty at last. She knew as well as he did,
with a faint pleasure mingling with many a
thought of pain and some of irritation, that this
setting out together was indeed at last their
real honeymoon, in so far as that consists of a
life together and alone.

Lady Penton returned very grave and overwhelmed
with thought to the shelter of those
red roofs at the Hook which made so picturesque
a point in the landscape from Penton.
She did not make any response to the children
who rushed out in a body to see the parents

come home, to admire the pair of screws, and
the new carriage. She went into the draT\'ing-
room and gazed long upon the chiffonier,
measuring and gauging it with her eye from
every side. It had, as has been said, a plate-glass
back, and it was inlaid, and had various
brass ornaments entitling it to the name of
ormolu. She touched its corners with her hand
lovingly, then shook her head.

Not even the chiffonier will do for Penton,'
she said ; ' not even the chiffonier I'

Nothing else could have given the family such
an idea of the grandeur of the gi-eat house,
and their own grandeur to whom it belonged,
as well as of the saddening yet exhilarating
fact that everything would have to be got new.

Well, my dear,' said Sir Edward, ' we must
make up our minds to that ; for to tell the truth,
though you were always so pleased with that
piece of furniture, I never liked it much.'

He never Heed it much I Lady Penton
turned a reproachful glance upon her husband ;
it was as if he had abandoned a friend in
trouble.

VOL. III. S

Edward,' she said, with a tone of despair, ' if
this wall not do, nothing will do  nothing we
have. 1 had given up the carpets and curtains,
but I still had a fond hope  I thought that one
side of the room, at any rate, would be furnished
with that; but it would be nothing in the Penton
drawing-room  nothing ! And, if that won't do,
nothing will do.'

My dear,' Sir Edward said  he planted himself
very firmly on his feet, with the air of Fits
in the poem, setting his back against the
rock  ' my dear,' he repeated, looking round as
Who should say,

Come one, come all, this rock shall fly
From its firm base as soon as I :'

I have thought of all that ; and I have something
to propose. You must not take me up ina
hurry, but hear me out. We are all very fond
of Penton Hook : but we can't live in two houses
at once.'

Especially when they are so close to each
other,' cried Anne, instinctively standing up by
him. ' I know what father means.'

She was the only one whose mind was disengaged

and free to follow every new initiative.
Ally was altogether occupied by her new
prospects, and Walter, though he did his best to
resume his old aspect, was still too much absorbed
in those that were past. Anne alone was
the cheerful present, the to-day of the family,
ready to take up every suggestion. She stood
up by her father manfully and put her arm
through his.

I am with you, father  though I'm not of
much account,' she said.

Lady Penton withdrew her regretful gaze
from her chiffonier. She did not, to tell the
truth, expect any practical light about the
furniture from her husband, who was only a
theorist in such matters, or the enthusiast by his
side; but she was a woman of impartial mind,
and she would not refuse to listen. She turned
her eyes upon the pair.

Well, then,' said Sir Edward, ' this is what I
am going to propose : that I should let the Hook
as it stands  poor old house, it is shabby
enough, but in summer it will always bring a
fair rent. Take away nothing ; the chiffonier

S 2

shall stand in all its glory, and you can come
back and look at it, my dear, from time to time.
And look here : it is no use straining at a gnat ;
we must make up our minds to it. As soon as
my cousin goes we must write to Pillow or
somebody  who is the best man ?  to go in at
once to Penton and furnish it from top to
bottom. It is no use straining at a gnat, as I
say. We must just make a great gulp and get
it down.'

Straining at a  do you call that a gnat,
Edward ? It is a camel you mean.'

Camel or not, my dear,' said Sir Edward,
with a look of determination ; ' that is how it
must be.'

They all held their breath at this tremendous
resolution.

But as for Pillow, that is nonsense. It must
be Maple at the very utmost,' Lady Penton
said.

CHAPTER XV.

AX Agitating ENCOUNTER.

It was spring before these changes were accomplished
and the family got into Poitou, all
newly finished from top to bottom as Sir
Edward in his magnificence had said. Perhaps
this was not exactly true, for Lady Penton kept
an unwearying eye upon all the movements of
the workmen, and decided that it was unnecessary
to touch many of the rooms where there
was 'still enough of furniture to make them
habitable, or which only the exigencies of a
very large party of visitors would make necessary
 and that was not a contingency likely to
occur. They took up their residence in Penton
when the woods were all carpeted with primroses,
and everything was opening to the new
life and hope of the growing season.

No doubt it was evident at once that the
grandeur of the old Pentons, their cold but
splendid dignity of living, and all the self-restrained
yet self-conscious wealth of their
manners and ways, the costliness, the luxury
the state, were not to be reproduced : but then
the house had become a cheerful house, which
it never was under Mrs. Russell Penton's sway.
It was no longer silent with one stately figure
moving here and there, and Russell Penton,
fretted and impatient, protesting in his 
with his hands in his pockets against
the splendour. There was no splendour now,
but a perpetual movement, a flitting of many
groups about the lawns, a sound of cheerful
voices.

The children enjoyed it with their whole
hearts, and Mab Russell  who had come upon
that promised long visit, and had managed to
establish herself with the maid and the man
who were attached to her little person, and
other accessories, which looked like a very long
visit indeed  plunged into the midst of all their
diversions, and became the ringleader in all
nursery mischief.

I never had any growing up,' she said. ' I
have always been out and seeing everything. I
don't like gi-own-up people, except you, Lady
Penton. Let me go back to the nursery ; and
then I can be promoted to the school-room, and
then burst upon the world. After Ally and
Anne are both married I shall be of such use.
You can't do Anthout a grown-up daughter.
But I am only in the nursery now.'

Anne is not thinking of marrying, my dear.
She is too young,' Lady Penton would say,
which was all the gentle protest she made against
Mab's claim. For she was very pitiful of the
poor little orphan  and then Walter Perhaps
it is not possible to be a mother without
admitting certain schemes into one's head. And
Sir Edward, for his part, did not oppose, which
was more cunous. He was not fond of strangers,
and as he, like his wife, was too proud to hear
of Mab's allowance, and her horses and she
where a great expense to the restrained and
economical household, it may perhaps be supposed
that the father, though no schemer, had
fancies in his mind too.

The one in the house whose heart beat low,
whose life seemed to have sunk into the shadow,
was the one of all others who should have been
the brightest, and whose beginning of existence
included most capabilities of enjoyment. Walter
was now the heir of Pent on in reality. He had
attained everything he had once looked forward
to. More than this, he had that little fortune of
his own which in a few months would be in his
actual and unfettered possession. But his life,
before ever it opened out, had been chilled. It
seemed to him at first that life and all its joys
were over for him. It was not only that he had
been disappointed in his love, but it had been
associated to him with all the disgusts that
affect youth so profoundly ; he had touched the
mercenary, the meretricious, the degraded, and
his pride had been humbled by the contact.
Yet he had been ready to endure that contact,
to submit to be linked with these horrors for the
sake of his love.

He had known even in the midst of his rapture
of youthful fantastic passion that to be
linked with all these debasing circumstances

would take the fragrance and the beauty out
of life. To have Mrs. Sam Rochford for his
mother-in-law, to recognise that uncleanly, untidy,
sordid little house as Emmy's home would
have been misery even in the midst of bliss ; he
had been aware of this even in the hottest of
his pursuit, while he was possessed by the image
of Emmy, and could think of no possibility of
happiness save that of marrying her. Had it
been Rochford's cottage in all its old-fashioned
humility ; had it been the kind, deaf, dear old
woman who had been familiar to him all his life,
how different I But the dreadful woman in that
dreadful parlour, with her smile, and her portraits
all smiling just the same upon the dingy
walls, with her white, horrible, unwholesome
hands, even in Emmy's presence how he had
shuddered at her I

These images oppressed the poor boy's imagination
like a nightmare  he could not forget
them ; and he could not forget her Who had
made him accept and tolerate all that, who still
could, if she would but hold up a finger, make
everything possible. How was it that this

magic existed What was the meaning of it?
He knew now with more or less certainty what
Emmy was. She was not, notwithstanding the
cleverness of speech which had so filled him
with wonder at first, either educated or refined :
and she was not beautiful. He was able to
perceive even that. He saw, too, and hated
himself for seeing, indications of her mother's
face in Emmy's, the beginning of that horrible
smile. And he knew also that she had no response
to make to the enthusiastic love in his
own youthful breast, the passion of devotion
and self-abandonment which had swept in his
mind all precaution and common-sense away.

No such operations had taken place in her.
She had weighed him in the balances of the most
common, the most prosaic form of sense, that of
worldly advantage  of money. His heart was
sore with all these wounds, he felt them in
every fibre. It had been taken into consideration
whether he was rich enough, whether he
had enough to offer. She whom he loved with
extravagant youthful devotion, ready to sacrifice
everything for her, even his tastes, the

manners and ways of thinking in which he had
been brought up, had tried him by the vulgares
of tests. How coukl a young heart bear all
this?

Seldom, very seldom, does so complete a
disenchantment come to one so yoimg; for
Walter did not take it as young Pendennis did,
or learn to laugh at his own delusion. He had
no temptation to laugh; he could not put out of
his pained young being the thought that it
could not be true, that after all there must be
some mistake in it, that his love must have
judged rightly, that his disenchantment was but
some horrible work of the devil.

And wounded, undeceived, quivering with
pain as he was, his heart still yearned after her ;
he formed to himself pictures of what he might
find if he stole back unawares, without any
warning. He imagined her sitting in dreariness
and solitude, perhaps shut up by the
mother lest she should call him back, a patient
martyr, knowing how she had been nullified in
his eyes  but not vilified, oh no, only mistaken.
He fed his heart with dreams of this kind even

while he knew  knew by experience, by certainty,
by her own words, and looks, and sentiments,
noways disguised, that the fact was not
so. Avoient more often go on loving after the
beloved has lost all illusion than men do, but
perhaps in extreme youth the boy has this experience
oftener than the girl. Poor Walter had
been stabbed in every sensitive part, and felt his
wounds all keen ; but still he could not put her
out of his heart.

And the consequence of this morbid and
divided soul was that his being altogether was
weakened and the life made languid in it. He
had no heart, as people say, for anything. He
left the Hook without regret, and entered on the
larger life of Penton without pleasure : everything
was obscured to him as if a veil were over
it. 'No joy the blowing season gives,' his
vitality had sunk altogether. It was arranged
that he was to go to Oxford in April, but he felt
neither pleasure nor unwillingness. It was all
unreal to him ; nothing was real but that little
episode. Emmy in her brightness and lightness
by his side in the streets, making those

little expeditions with him in all the confidence
and closeness of belonging to him, two betrothed
that were like one ; and the mother in
the background with her hands, which he still
seemed to feel and shudder at. He had almost
daily impulses to go and see all these scenes
again, to see the actors in them, to make out if
they were false or true. But he did not do so,
perhaps because of the languor of his being,
perhaps because he was afraid of anyone divining
what he wanted, perhaps because he clung
to some ray of illusion still.

There began, however, to be frequent visits
to town. Lady Penton being absorbed in that
important matter of Ally's trousseau, which could
no longer be deferred. What changes seemed
to have happened in their life since the time
when they all went up to London a simple party
to provide what was necessary for the visit to
Penton ! Penton, it had seemed at that time,
would never be theirs ; they were giving it up
and contemplating a comfortable obscurity with
a larger income and no responsibilities. Now
they had indeed the larger income, but so many

responsibilities with it, and so much to be done,
that the poverty of Penton Hook seemed almost
wealth in comparison ; yet  for the mind accustoms
itself very quickly to what is, however
much it may have struggled for a different way
there was perhaps no one of the family who
could now have returned to the Hook without
the most humiliating sense of downfall, a feeling
which Lady Penton herself shared, in spite
of herself. The trousseau occupied a great
many of the thoughts of the ladies at this
period. They had a great many shops to goto,
and when by times one of the male members
of the family accompanied them, it was tedious
work inspecting their proceedings and waiting,
looking on, while so many stuffs were turned
over and patterns compared.

It happened one of these days that Walter was
of the party. How he had been got to join it
nobody knew, for he shrank from London and
could scarcely be induced to enter it at all, his
inclinations, and yet not his inclinations so much
as his dreams, and that uneasy sense that his
disillusionment might of itself be an illusion,

drew him in one direction, while all tliu impulses
of the moment were towards the other
way. But this day he had come he could not
tell why. Mab was one of the party, and,
though it cannot be said that Mab's presence
was an attraction, yet there was a certain
camaraderie between the two, and she had taken
it upon herself to talk to him, to attempt to
amuse and interest him, when nobody knew how
to approach him in his forlorn languor so unlike
himself. Even Ally and Anne, his sisters, were
so moved by sympathy for Wat, and by dismayed
wondering what he was thinking of and what
they could say, what depths of his recently
acquired experience he was straying in, and
what they could do to call him back from those
depths  that they were silenced even by their
feeling for him.

But Mab had no such restraint upon her,
though she knew more than they did, having
seen him at the very crisis of his fate ; and though
she thought she knew a great deal more than
she really knew, Mab had no such awed and
trembling respect for Walter's experiences as

est movement, uttered not a word ; the shock
of the discovery, the thrill of her presence so
near him, were too penetrating to be betrayed
by outward signs. He stood like one stupefied,
though all his faculties on the moment had become
so keen and clear. There was no possibility
of any doubt ; her light hair, all curled on
her forehead, her face so full of brightness and
animation, gleamed out upon bim as she turned
round. Emmy here, before his eyes !

It was like watching a little drama to see her
amid the more severely clothed, cloaked, and
bonneted figures of the ladies round. Her head
was uncovered ; she was in what seemed her
natural place. Her patience seemed boundless.
She took down cloak after cloak and slid them
about her graceful shoulders, and made a few
paces up and down to show them. It was a
pretty occupation enough. She was dressed
well : her natural grace made what she was
doing appear no vulgar service, but an action
full of courtesy and patience. The unfortunate
boy watched her with eyes which enlarged and
expanded with gazing. This, then, was what

she had been doing while he had waited for her,
while he . had been her faithful attendant. She
had never betrayed it to him. Sometimes he
had believed that she was a teacher, sometimes
that she went to work somewhere, he did not
know how. This was what her occupation had
been all the time. To make a trade out of her
pretty gracefulness, her slim, youthful, easy
figure, her perception of what was comely,
while he was there Who would have taken her
out of all that, who would so fain have given
her all he had. Why had she not come to him ?
He watched the pretty head turn, and that
twist of the shoulders setting the new wrap.
They were all beautiful on her. Did the women
who were round her believe  could they believe
that they could resemble Emmy  that
anything could ever make them like her ?

Walter's whole aspect changed, he stood as
if on tiptoe watching that little scene. At last
the bargain was decided, the purchase made ; the
figures changed places, went and came from
one side to another, as in the theatre, then dissolved
away, leaving her there before the big

T 2

est movement, uttered not a word ; the shock
of the discovery, the thrill of her presence so
near him, were too penetrating to be betrayed
by outward signs. He stood like one stupefied,
though all his faculties on the moment had become
so keen and clear. There was no possibility
of any doubt ; her light hair, all curled on
her forehead, her face so full of brightness and
animation, gleamed out upon him as she turned
round. Emmy here, before his eyes !

It was like watching a little drama to see her
amid the more severely clothed, cloaked, and
bonneted figures of the ladies round. Her head
was uncovered ; she was in what seemed her
natural place. Her patience seemed boundless.
She took down cloak after cloak and slid them
about her graceful shoulders, and made a few
paces up and down to show them. It was a
pretty occupation enough. She was dressed
well: her natural grace made what she was
doing appear no vulgar service, but an action
full of courtesy and patience. The unfortunate
boy watched her with eyes which enlarged and
expanded with gazing. This, then, was what

she had been doing while he had waited for her,
while he had been her faithful attendant. She
had never betrayed it to him. Sometimes he
had believed that she was a teacher, sometimes
that she went to work somewhere, he did not
know how. This was what her occupation had
been all the time. To make a trade out of her
pretty gracefulness, her slim, youthful, easy
figure, her perception of what was comely,
while he was there who would have taken her
out of all that, who would so fain have given
her all he had. Why had she not come to him ?
He watched the pretty head turn, and that
twist of the shoulders settling the new wrap.
They were all beautiful on her. Did the women
who were round her believe  could they believe
that they could resemble Emmy  that
anything could ever make them like her ?

Walter's whole aspect changed, he stood as
if on tiptoe watching that little scene. At last
the bargain was decided, the purchase made ; the
figures changed places, went and came from
one side to another, as in the theatre, then dissolved
away, leaving her there before the big

T 2

glass, ill a little pose of her own, contemplating
herself. It was in this glass that by-and-by
Emmy, looking at herself, with her head now on
one side, now on the other, suddenly perceived
a stranger approaching, a gentleman, not with
the air of a customer, coming along hurriedly
with his face turned towards her. Emmy was
sufficiently used to be admired. She knew
as well as anyone that her pretty figure, as she
put on the cloaks that hung about, was a pretty
sight to see, that the graceful little tricks with
which she arranged them on her shoulders gave
piquancy to her own appearance, and a grace
which perhaps did not belong to it to the article
of apparel which she put on. She knew this,
and so did her employers, who engaged her for
this grace, and profited by her prettiness and
her skill. But Emmy was very well aware that
with strange gentlemen in this sanctuary of the
feminine she had nothing to do. She made her
preparations for retiring discreetly before the
approaching man. But before she did so she
gave a glance over her shoulder, a glance of invincible,
inherent coquetry, just to let him see

that she perceived she was admired, and had
no objection theoretically, though as a practical
matter the thing was impossible.

As she gave him this look through the medium
of the big mirror, Emmy recognised Walter ashe
had recognised her. She gave a sudden low
cry of alarm, and put up her hands to her face
to hide herself, then darted like a startled hare
through the intricacies of all those subdivisions.
Walter called out her name, and hun-hed after
her, breathless, forgetting everything, but in a
moment found himself hopelessly astray amid
screens which balked his passage and groups of
ladies who stared at him as if he had been a
madman. Those screens, with their hanging
finery, those astonished groups disturbed in
their occupation, seemed to swallow up all trace
of the little light figure which had disappeared
in a moment. He stumbled on as far as he
could till he was met by a severe and stately
personage who blocked the way.

Is there anything I can show you, sir V this
stately lady said, who was as imperious as if she
had been a duchess.

I  I saw some one I know,' said Walter ;
'if I might but speak to her for a moment.'

'Do you mean one of our young ladies, sir?'
said that princess dowager. ' The young ladies
in the mantle department are under my care ;
we shall be happy to show you anything in the
way of business, but private friends are not for
business hours ; and this is a place for ladies,
not for young gentlemen,' the distinguished
duenna said.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE End OF ALL.

What was he to do ? He was stopped short,
bewildered, excited, quivering with a hundred
sensations by this impassible guardian of virtue
and the proprieties. A young gentleman is in
every personal particular stronger, more effective
and potent than a middle-aged woman ina
shop ; yet a bolder man than Walter would
have been subdued by a representative of law
and order so uncompromising. He looked at
her appealingly, with his young eyes full of
anxiety and trouble.

I wanted only  a moment  to say a word,'
he faltered, as if this fate hung upon her gi-ace.

But nothing could move her. She stood
before him with her black silk skirts filling up

the passage, in all the correctness of costume
and demeanour which her position required.

Young gentleman,' she said, * remember that
you may be doing a great deal of harm by
insisting. You can't speak to anyone here.
If you 11 take my advice, you'll join the ladies
that seem to be looking for you. That's your
party, I believe, sir,' she said, with a majestic
wave of her hand. And then poor Walter heard
Ally's voice behind him.

Oh, Wat, what are you doing ? We thought
-we had lost you : and mother is waiting. Oh,
Wat, what were you doing there ? Who were
you talking to ? What could you want among
all the mantles V

Another voice came to the rescue while he
turned round bewildered.

I know what he was doing. Ally ; he was
looking for that wrap you were talking of. You
should have asked me to come and help you to
choose it, Mr. Pen ton.'

They swept him away bewildered, their voices
and soft rustle of movement coming round him
like the soft compulsion of a running stream.

The girls flowed forth in pleasant words as
they got him between them, as irresistible as
the duenna, though in a different way, Ally
thanking him for the intention that Mab had
attributed to him.

Oh, Wat, how good of you to think of
that !'

'But, Mr. Penton, you should have asked me
to come with you to choose it ; I would have
protected you,' said the laughing Mab.

He vas swept away by them, confused, with
something singing in his ears, with  not the
earth, but at least the solid flooring, covered
with noiseless carpets, laden with costly wares,
giving way, as he felt, under his stumbling-feet.


He accompanied them home as in a dream :
fortunately their minds were engrossed with
subjects of their own, so that they did not remark
his silence, his preoccupation. He sat
sunk in his corner of the railway-carriage, his
face half covered with his hand, thinking it allover,
contemplating that scene, seeing those
figures float before him, and her look in the mirror

over her shoulder. Ah ! that look in the mirror
was a stab to him, keener than a blow. For it
was not to him that Emmy threw that glance 
it was to any man, to the first pair of admiring
eyes that might find out her prettiness, her grace
oh, not to him ! When she saw who it was she
had covered her face and fled. She had been
ashamed to be discovered. Why should she be
ashamed to be discovered? There was nothing
shameful in Avhat she was doing. In the quiet
of the great shop, among women, no disturbing
influences near  among the pretty things that
suited her, the atmosphere warm and soft, the
carpets noiseless under her feet.

Perhaps he said all this to himself to console
him for some internal shock it gave him to see
her there at everybody's will, turning herself
into a lay figure that all the vulgar women, the
dumpy matrons, the heavy girls might be deceived,
and think that by assuming the same
garment they might become as beautiful as she.
Walter was not aware of this if it were so : but
all his thoughts, which he had been trying to
sever from her, went back with a bound. He

thought and thought, as the Hues of the coins
all touched with reviving green, flew past
the carriage windows, and the jar and croak of
the railway made conversation difficult, and justified
his retirement into himself  seeing her
now in a new light, seeing her in perspective,
the Hght all round her, her daily work, her home,
the diversions she had loved. He said to himself
that it was a life of duty, though not one
that the vulgar mind recognised as drawn on
elevated lines. How patient she had been,
smiling upon those whom she had served, putting
on one thing after another, exhibiting
everything at its best to please them I It was
all curiously mixed up with pain and sharpness,
this rapture of admiration, and confusion, and
longing, and regret, which the sight of her had
worked in his mind. The smile on her lips was
a little like the smile with which her mother
had been represented as charming the public.
Emmy had her public to charm too. Oh, if he
could but snatch her away from it all I  carry
her off, hide her from all contact with the common
world I

It occurred to him quite irrelevantly, in the
midst of his thoughts, how it might be if Emmy
at Pentou, or in any other such place, should
suddenly encounter some one whom she had
served at Snell and Hargrave's ? This thought
came into his mind like an arrow fired by an
enemy across the tender and eager course of his
anticipations and resolutions. How could she
bear it? and how should he bear it, to see the
stare, the whisper, the wonder, the scorn in the
looks of some pair of odious, envious, spiteful
women (women always call forth these adjectives
under such circumstances). This arrow
went to his very heart, and wounded him in
the midst of his longing and purpose, and hot,
impatient aspiration. And then he seemed to
see her with that pretty trick of movement
settling the cloak upon her shoulders, to show
it off to the intending purchaser ! Oh, Emmy !
his Emmy ! that she should be exposed to that !
And yet he said to himself it was nothing derogatory
 oh, nothing derogatory !  a safe, sheltered,
noiseless place, among women, among
beautiful stuffs and things, with no jar of
the outside world about! If he could but

snatch her away from it, can her away!

Penton contained his body but not his mind
for some time after. AYhat could he do ? She
had rejected him  for motives of patience, poor
Emmy I and rem-ned to her shop. '\Miy? why?
Was he so distasteful to lier as that?  that she
should prefer her shop to him and his ten thousand
pounds? And yet he had not felt himself
to be distasteful. Even on this unexpected,
undreamed-of meeting, she had hidden her face
and fled, that he might not identify her, might
not speak to her. Was she, then, so set against
him ! And yet she had not always been set
against him.

Walter did not know how long the time was,
which passed like a dream, while he pondered
these things, asking himself every mornings
what he should do ? whether he should return
and try his fortune again ; whether when she
knew all she would yield to his entreaties and
allow him to deliver her from that servitude ?

It was on a Saturday at last that the impulse
became suddenly uncontrollable. He had been
thinking over her little holiday, the Saturdays,
which she had to herself, the Kttle time when

she was free, when she had gone out with him
enjoying the air, even though it was winter,
and the freedom, though he had not known in
what bondage her days were spent. He coukl
not contain himself when he remembered this.
He went hurriedly away, not, as he had done
on a previous occasion, in hot enthusiasm and
rapture, but sadly, perceiving now all he Alas
doing, and the break he must make if he were
successful, between himself and his home perceiving
too the difficulties that might come after,
the habits that were not as his, the modes of life
which are so hard to efface. Even his anticipation
of happiness was all mixed with pain. It
had become to him rather a vision of the happiness
of delivering her, of placing her in circumstances
more fit, surrounding her with everything
delightful, than of the bliss to himself which
would come from her companionship. Was he
a little uncertain of that after all that had come
and gone ? But Walter would never have owned
this to himself  only it was of her happiness,
not of his, that he thought ; and something
wrung his heart as he left Penton behind, and
took his way towards the house of Mrs. Sam

Crockforcl with a shuddering recollection which
he could not subdue.

He had planned to get there about noon,
when Emmy would be coming home. She
might be tired, she might be sad, she might be
cheered by the sudden appearance of a faithful
lover, bringing the means of amusement and
variety in his hand. They might go to Richmond,
and he would take her on the river, as
she had said she liked it, though in Planter that
had not been practicable. And he had made
up his mind to insist, to lee masterful, as it Alas
said women liked a man to be. He would not
accept a denial, he thought. He would tell her
that he could not endure it, that this work of
hers must come to an end. He made up his
mind that neither her sauciness nor her sweetness
should distract him from his resolution, that
this thing must come to an end. He walked
most of the long way from the railway-station
to the little street in which was the mean little
house where she lived with her mother. How
often he had trodden that way with his heart
beating  how often distracted with pain ! There
was more pain than pleasure in his bosom now.

He did not know how she would receive him,
but he had made np his mind not to be discouraged
by any reception she might give him.
This time he would have his way. His motive
was no longer selfish, he said to himself. It was
no longer for him, but for her.

There was a little commotion in the street, of
which he took no particular notice as he came
up. A carriage with a pair of grey horses wa
coming along with the familiar jog of a hack
carriage which is paid for at so much an hour.
Walter did not suppose this could have anything
to say to him, and took no notice, as how
should he ? But Avhen he approached the house
it became more and more evident that something
had happened or was happening. A
group of idlers were standing about a door,
from which came the sound of voices and
laughter, altogether festive sounds. Somebody
was rejoicing, it was apparent, with that not
too refined kind of joy  a happiness unrestrained
by any particular regard for the proprieties that
belong to such regions. Even this did not
rouse Walter. What did it matter to him if

some one had been married, or christened, or
was going through any of the joyful incidents
of Kfe  next door ? His mind was full of what
she would say, of what she would do, of the
steps to be taken in order to complete her
deliverance. It would not be his deliverance.
It would be his severance from much that had
acquired a new value in his eyes. But it would
be freedom to her ; it would be, whatever she
might say, comparative wealth. Why had she
so resisted? why, in her position, had she
scorned his little fortune ? It could only be, he
thought, that he might be hindered from
sacrificing so much on his side.

He was deep, deep in thought as he approached.
Surely it was next door, this marriage,
or whatever it was. It must be next door. The
carriage came leisurely up and stopped, the
coachman displaying a great wedding favour.
It was a marriage, then : strange that he should
come with his mind full of that proposal of his, to
which he would take no denial, and find a marriage
going on next door ! He smiled to himself
at the odd circumstance, but there was not very

VOL. III. U

much pleasure iu his smile. There would soon
be another there  but quiet  that at least he
would secure  not attended by this noisy reveby,
the voices and cheers ringing out into the street.
Ah, no ! but quiet, the marriage of two people
who would have a great deal to think of, to
whom happiness would come seriously, not
without sacrifices, not without

But, oh, that sudden shock and pause ! what
did this mean 1 It was not at the next house,
but at Mrs. Sam Rochford's door that the
carriage with the two grey horses drew up. It
was there the idlers were standing grouped
round to see somebody pass out: the voices
came from within that well-known narrow
entrance. Walter stopped, struck dumb, his
very breath going, and stood with the rest, to
see  what he might see. He heard the stir of
chairs pushed from the table, the chorus of
good-byes, and then

The open doorway was suddenly filled by the
bridal pair, the bridegroom coming out first, shea
step behind. Walter knew the man well
enough ; he had seen him but once, but that
seeing had been sufficient. He came out

flushed in his wedding clothes, his hat upon one
side of his head, his white gloves in his hand.

Thank you all ; we'll be jolly enough, you
needn't fear,' he was calling to the well-wishers
behind.

After him Emmy came forward, perhaps more
gaily apparelled than a bride of higher position
would have been for her wedding journey, her
hat covered With flowers and feathers, her dress
elaborately trimmed. She too was a little
flushed, and full of smiles and satisfaction.
Walter did not stir, he stood and looked on
grimly, like a man who had nothing to do with
it. It did not seem to affect him at all ; his
heart, which had been beating loudly, had
calmed in a moment. He stood and looked at
them as if they were people whom he had never
seen before  standing silent in the midst of the
loungers of the Httle street, a few children and
women, a passing errand-boy, and a man out of
work, who stood too with his hands in his
pockets and gazed in a sullen way, with a sort
of envy of the people who were well-off and
well-to-do. The bridegroom had not the

u2

same outward deference to his bride which
might be seen in other circles. He held her
arm loosely in his and dragged her behind him,
turning back and shouting farewells to his friends.

Oh, we'll be joyful enough !' he cried, taking
no heed to her timid steps.

And perhaps Emmy's steps could not be described
as timid. She gave his arm a shake to
rouse him from the fervour of these good-byes.

'Here, mind what are you doing, Ned, and
let's get on, or we shall miss the train,' she said.

Walter stood and gazed stupidly, and took all
the little drama in,

And then there ensued the farce at the end, the
shower of rice, the old shoes thrown at the departing
pair. The jovial bridegroom threw back
several that fell into the carriage, and Emmy
laughed and cheered him on. They went off ina
burst of laughter and gaiety. Her quick eye
had glanced at the spectators on either side of
the door. Could she have seen him there ? She
had turned round to her mother, who followed
them to the door, and whispered something as
they went away : but that was all. Walter stood
and watched them drive off; it was all like a scene

in a theatre to him. He did not seem able to
make up his mind to go away. And then suddenly
he felt a touch upon his arm.

 Oh, Mr. Pent on, is it you V Step in  step in,
sir, please, and let me speak to you ; I must say
a word to you.'

I can see no need for any words,' he said,
dully ; but partly to get free of her, for her touch
was intolerable to him, partly because of the
want of any impulse in his own mind, he followed
her into the house, into the parlour, all full of
wedding favours and finery. The bridal-party
had retired riotously, as was very apparent, to
the table in the back room.

Oh, Mr. Penton, you have been shamefully
treated I' Mrs. Sam Rochford cried. She was
herself splendid in a new dress, with articles of
jewellery hung all over her. She touched her
eyes lightly with her handkerchief as she spoke.
Young gentleman,' she said, ' though I have
had to give in to it, don't think I approved of it.
My child, of course, was my fii-st object, but I
had some heart for you too. And you behaved
so beautiful I How could she ever do it, and
prefer him to you, is more than I can tell !'

Then it was going on all the time T said
Walter, dully.

He did not seem to have any feeling on the
subject, or to care ; yet he listened with a sort of
interest as to the argument of the play.

Sir,' said the woman, ' everything is said to
be fair in love. If it will be any consolation to
you, you have helped my child to an alliance
which  is not greater than her deserts  no, it is
not greater than her deserts, Mr. Penton, as you
and I know : but so far as money goes was little
to be looked for. Edward is not perhaps a
young man of manners as repined as we could
wish, but he can give her every advantage.
He is in business, Mr. Penton. Business has its
requirements, which are different to those of art.
His mother has just died, who was not Emmy's
friend. And he is rich. The business,' said Mrs.
Sam Rochford, sinking her voice, ' brings in 
1 can't tell how many thousands a year.'

Then Walter remembered what Emmy had
said about some one who had as much a year as
his whole little fortune consisted of, and added
that dully to the story of the drama which he

was hearing, passing a sort of courteous attention
without any interest to speak of.

Why did not she  do this .at once ? that is
what sui-prises me,' he said.

Mr. Penton, I said all things are fair in love.
I am afraid she played you against him to draw
him on. She is my only child, it is hard for me
to blame her. I don't know that strictly speaking
she is to be blamed. A girl has so few
opportunities. He proposed a secret marriage,
but my Emmy has too much pride for that.
You were always with her, Mr. Penton, after she
returned, and he was distracted. He thought
she was going to marry you. I thought so myself
at first : but she played her cards very well.
She played you against him to draw him on.'

Oh, she played me against him to draw him
on,' said Walter.

These words kept going through his head
while Emmy's mother went on talking at great
length, explaining, defending, blaming her
child.' She might as well have said nothing
more, for he could not take it in. The words
seemed to circle round and round him in the air.

They did not wound him, but gave a sort of
wonder  a dull surprise.

She played me against him to draw him on.'
He went back through the endless streets to
the railway-station, walking the whole way, feeling
as if that long, long course might go on forever,
for nights and days, for dreary centuries ;
and then the railway, with its whirl of noise and
motion, completed and confirmed the sense of
an endless going on. He could not have told
how long he had been away when he walked up
the avenue again in the soft darkness of the
spring night. His dulled mind mixed this
absence up somehow with the previous one, and,
with this confusion, brought a curious sense of
guilt, and impulse to ask pardon. He would
arise and go to his father, and say, * Father, I
have sinned.' He would kneel down by his
mother's side. He could not understand that
he had done no harm  that he had only left
Penton that day.

She played me against him to draw him on.'

It all seemed so simple  nobody's fault  not

even perhaps Emmy's  for girls have so few

opportunities, as her mother said. Perhaps it

was natural, as it was the explanation of all the
play  the mot de Venice. It seemed a sort of
satisfaction to have such an ample explanation
of it, at the last.

Just inside the gate he saw something white
fluttering among the trees, and Mab cried.
breathless, ' Mr. Walter, is it you V

It was all he could do not to answer her with
that explanation which somehow seemed so
universally applicable, 'She played me off' 
but he restrained himself, and only said,

Yes, it is I.'

She put out her hand to him in an impulsive,
eager way. He had not in fact seen her that
day before, and Walter took the hand thrust
into his in the dark with a curious sensation of
help and succour ; it was a cool little soft fresh
hand, not like that large and clammy member
which, thank heaven, he had nothing to do with
any more. And there was an end of it all 
there it all ended, in Mab's little frank hand
meeting his in the twilight as if she were admitting
him to a new world.

Aby was married shortly after, and the marriage

was very good for the material interests of
the house of Pentoii. It was a very fine marriage
for young Mr. Rochford of Reading, but
it was also a fine thing for the family in whose
history he had in future more interest than
merely that of their man of business.

Mab still promises every day that Anne will
soon follow her sister's example, and that she
herself will be the only one left to fulfil the
duties of the grown-up daughter. Her visit
has been prolonged again and again, till it has
run out into the longest visit that ever was
known. Will it ever come to an end? Will
she ever go away again, and set up with a
chaperone in the house in Mayfair with which
she is sometimes threatened by her guardians ?
Who can tell ? There will be many people to
be consulted before it can be decided one way
or other. But, if nobody else's mind is made up,
Mab's is very distinct upon this point, as well
as upon most others within her range. And she
is one of those people who usually have their way.

