Chapter I.

*FROM NATURAL CAUSES.'

I don't know who is to tell Missie ! ' said
the old butler, as he stood looking down at
the bed, where lay all that remained of his
late master. ' It will go for to kill the child,
never did daughter love father better; and
how we are to tell her ! Lord knows, I
don't ! '

There ain't no one to send for neither,'
replied his wife, who did duty as housekeeper,
and who had been called into
the room by Andrew when he had made

the terrible discovery. * In most families
there's an aunt, or a sister, or even the
parson's wife ; but all these twenty years
you and I have lived here, not one soul,
save the doctor and lawyer, has ever entered
the house. I nursed Missie from the day
she were two years old, and they came into
possession of the property; but I know no
more of her than I do of Jane's girl, and
she I've never seen. But something must
be done  the question is what ? '

There's the doctor to fetch, of course,
just to see why he's gone,' replied Andrew,
though he knows as you and I know this
might come at any moment. I always
wanted Missie told, but Dr. Pearson made
sure she could never keep it from her father,
and if he had known it would have killed him
outright. I can hardly believe that. Anyhow,
he should have been prepared, and we
should have known from him who to send

for and what to say. As it is, I'm fairly 
and the old man knitted his brows
and looked anxiously at his wife.

I suppose he is dead ? ' she asked, tentatively.


Dead as forty door nails replied her
husband, turning back the curtain a little
and allowing the light to shine on the calm
white face on the pillow. ' I never had no
doubts on that matter, when I came into his
room and couldn't rouse him. I've expected
this day any time these ten years, but 'tis
a shock, death is, come when it may ; and I
shall never get over this, I know.'

Oh, yes you will,' said his wife, easily ;
but there's worse to come. Missie is in the
garden ; breakfast is due in five minutes ;
you go down, Andrew, and say her Pa is
not well ; you can send off Jake for Dr.
Pearson to come at once, and he shall tell
her. Don't let her up here ; you can say

her Pa don't wish her until the doctor has
been, anyway

'You ain't afraid, Maria?' asked the butler,
as he moved to the door on the tips of his
toes, as if dreading to arouse the sleeper on
the bed.

Afraid of him ? ' said the housekeeper,
contemptuously, ' not I ; you go and fetch
the doctor and prepare Missie, though it's
my opinion she won't care one bit  she is a
mass of selfishness, she is." And so saying,
and taking small notice of her husband's
protest against her last remark, she bundled
him out of the room, locked the door against
all possible intruders, and stood looking down
once more at all that was left of her old
master.

The blind over the window had been drawn
up and the room seemed full of the September
sunshine that flooded the garden and
lighted up the distant woods, where autumn's

hand had already begun to paint the trees
scarlet and russet and gold. The ah* was
heavy with the scent of the magnolia that
covered the front of the house, where bees
were humming loudly as they gathered their
last stores of honey ; and far away could be
heard the fitful song of a girl as she wandered
about in the garden, where a red waistcoated
robin was singing lustily too, as if anxious to
show he could hold his own with the human
songstress ; and, indeed, notwithstanding
that death had taken possession of the house,
the whole atmosphere was redolent of life,
and it was difficult, verily, to believe that the
master of all that fair property was no more,
and could never again lean from his window
answering his daughter's song, as usual, with
his musical whistle. Something in the song
caused the housekeeper to go to the casement
and look down at the girl as she
strayed hither and thither among the flowerbeds,

gathering the bouquets that were never
absent from the breakfast table; and as she
Hastened to the Hight hearted carol, and
watched the slender fingers possess themselves
carelessly of all the owner des-ed,
she felt impelled to call out the news to
her harshly, dispelling at one blow the carelessness
and joyousness that always made
her declare that, be what she might, Missie
most certainly was born without a soul. But
shaking off this impulse, Mrs. Lukerr came
back to the bed-side and began mechanically
to straighten the sheets and to put tidy the
pillows that lay beneath the head of the
dead man.

It was a fine face, and as the housekeeper
finished all she could do, an unbidden tear
fell from her eyes and lay on the cold, ivory-coloured
cheek. Sir Marmaduke Stanton
had been a very handsome man ; at sixty-five
he was comparatively a young man, and

as he lay in the repose of death he appeared
so strong, and so calmly asleep that it was
well-nigh incredible that he would never awake
again ; and although the bitter chill of the
cheek, as Mrs. Lukerr wiped away the tear,
might have assured her of the fact that it
was indeed death that she saw before her,
she could not resist turning back the bedclothes
once more to feel if the heart yet
beat or if, indeed, it were silent for ever.

As she did so, leaning over the bed in such
a manner as not to alter the position of
the body, she discovered a tiny wine-glass
on the bed-clothes under the right hand.
It was out of Sir Marmaduke's medicine
chest, and was used by him to contain the
draught he invariably took at night, did the
pain at his heart trouble him ; and as Mrs.
Lukerr took it up to place it on the table, a
curious scent caused her to raise it to her
nose, from which she took it away almost

as quickly as she placed it there ; and once
more bending down over her late master,
she leaned low enough to ascertain that
the same subtle odour appeared to cling to
his lips, that were half opened, as if he were
about to speak.

Mrs. Lukerr sank down into a chair, and,
for a moment, could not even think what
this might mean ; and then, as ideas crowded
through her brain, she rose again and began
eagerly searching the room, to see if she
could discover any clue to what was, undoubtedly,
an overwhelming mystery. It
was impossible that Sir Marmaduke could
have poisoned himself; he was far too fond
of life, of Missie, of his property, to say
nothing of his dinners, to go recklessly out
of a world where such things were certainties,
into another where nothing, even Missie,
was anything but problematical ; and it was
almost as impossible to believe he had been

murdered; there was no one who would doit,
unless robbery were added to the crime
too, and this Mrs. Lukerr knew was not
the case, for all the best plate was at the
bank, and the rest Lukerr had carried upto
bed with him, as usual, the night before,
and had restored it to its place in the
pantry before making the discovery of Sir
Marmaduke's death. And as Mrs. Lukerr
wandered about, looking under the bed, and
into drawers, and, in fact, everywhere where
there was the very smallest chance of finding
anything, she felt inclined to rush downstairs
and, regardless of her young mistress,
to shriek out wildly that help was required
at once, for Sir Marmaduke Standen lay
upstairs in his bed foully murdered.

Presently wheels on the gravel below
heralded the fact of Dr. Pearson's arrival.
Mrs. Lukerr heard Miss Standen question
him closely about her father and heard his

cautious answers, and then came his feet
on the stairs, and a pause outside the door.
Mrs. Lukerr was about to turn the key to
admit the doctor when she heard him say,
I cannot permit you to enter. Miss Standen ;
indeed I can't, pray don't ask it

He is my father, and my place is at his
side,' replied Miss Standen in a strangely
agitated voice.

not until I have seen him,' replied Dr.
Pearson calmly ; ' recollect. Miss Standen,
every moment you keep me here you are
preventing me from helping him; you can
stay outside and I will call you in the
moment I can safely do so ; but these sudden
attacks are not fit for girls to witness, and
your presence would incommode us both.
Now, will you stand aside and wait ? '

I suppose I must, but oh ! doctor, remember
there are only us two,' said Lisa
Standen, her voice breaking as if she were

in tears ; ' he is all I have '  and she was
going on to say more, when Mrs. Lukerr
opened the door cautiously, and Dr. Pearson
slipped inside and the key was turned adam,
before she could realize what was done, when
she sank down on her knees close to the
keyhole, trying her best to hear anything
that might be passing in the room, where
Dr. Pearson had told her her father was lying
fighting a desperate fight for life ; but the
low-toned colloquy in the room did not reach
her, and she could not hear nor see anything
of what was occurring.

The end has come then,' said the doctor
below his breath, as he came up to the
bedside and began a professional examination
of Sir Marmaduke's body; 'well, it is just
what I always expected. I can certify this,
and there will be no fuss or inquest ; so
unpleasant, you know, for the household.'

The end has come indeed. Dr. Pearson,

VOL. I. B

but not quite as we expected,' replied Mrs.
Lukerr cautiously ; ' there has been foul play
somewhere  look here ! ' and she handed
him the small glass and begged him to
smell it.

*I can smell nothing answered the doctor,
turning very white ; * nothing at all. Stay,
Mrs. Lukerr, have you found the bottle
containing the rest of the draught; you know
it always held four doses, and I sent the last
one in only the day before yesterday

I never looked, but it is sure to be in the
chest,' said the housekeeper, tossing her head.
What's become of your nose this morning.
Dr. Pearson; it's keen enough when you come
sniffing about, declaring the drains are out
of order and my dust-bin's foul ; and yet you
can't tell oil of almonds wien you are given
a thing literally stinking of it ; and there's
the smell about his mouth too, as strong
as strong : anyways, here's the rest of the

draught she added, as she opened the
medicine chest and took out the bottle; 'you
can smell that anyhow and she held the
vial up to him, that the moment the cork
was out gave forth a subtle odour as of
prussic acid.

The doctor put the cork in hastily and
placed the bottle in his pocket. ' Listen
to me, Mrs. Lukerr, for a few moments,' he
said, ' then I think you will see the
necessity of keeping this dark between you
and me ; you don't want scandal to play
havoc here and to ruin everyone, even Miss
Standen. I have a clue : Su' Marmaduke
was always telling me some day the pain
at his heart would increase so much that
he should be driven to kill himself; there
was always a fraction of a drop of oil of
almonds in his draught  this gave him the
idea; the pain was too much for him, he
has taken the law into his own hands and

VOL. I. B *2

has killed himself; anyhow, he could not
have lived another month. Now don't you
think you and I had better keep our own
counsel about this ? Think of the talk ; the
inquest ; why, they might even suspect you
and Lukerr ! You come into a nice lot of
money in the will, and life here is a trifle
slow; you can get away now  your motives
are evident.'

Goodness gracious me, Dr. Pearson, have
you gone raving mad,' exclaimed the housekeeper.
' Even if we do come into money
under the will, and this, neither me nor
Andrew knows of, mind you, who's to go
suspecting of us ? we've lived in Bridgeporthh
these forty years : first in Sir George
Standen's time and then in Sir Marmaduke's,
and that puts us above suspicion. I don't
hold with no hole-and-corner work, not I;
let's have an inquest if we must, and have
done of it. I shall go and tell Andrew at

once,' and she turned as if to leave the
room.

How about that poor child listening at
the door,' said the doctor, putting his hand
detaining on her arm ; ' think what you
will do for her if you allow such a thing
to get abroad; you nursed her, you must
care for her ; what can be her future if she
goes out into the world as the daughter of
a lunatic mother and of a father that committed
suicide because he was too cowardly
to bear pain ? As it is, no one knows of the
mother, and as I have attended Sir Mar-mature
for years for a most dangerous and
aggravated case of heart disease, I, of course,
know how he died.'

He never committed suicide,' exclaimed
the housekeeper stoutly. * Why he gave me
instructions only last night about the
cooking of the partridges for breakfast this
morning, and wrote for a whole lot of claret

just to please Andrew. Men who mean to
kill themselves don't do that ; they give out
hints, drop words we think of after, and suchlike
; and Sir Marmaduke ! why, his last words
to me, his very last words were : ' Maria,
you old fool, if you don't stew those bids
before you put 'em in the pie you'll find
yourself cut off with a shilling in my will*' '

Then he had mentioned his will,' said
the doctor, significantly.

Only jeering like that,' stuttered the housekeeper;
'never nothing serious, or what we
could look to as a certainty ; ' no,' added she,
recovering herself, ' he were murdered . Never
had any one less wish to go out of life than
Sir Marmaduke ; he enjoyed himself always
just about, and he'd never have left Missie
willingly, of that I'm sure.'

Where is the motive for a murderer,'
urged the doctor. ' The plate is all right ;
watch, ring, and money untouched ; whereas

I know that pain was awful, and he was
not a first-rate hand at bearing it ; in fact, he
was about as cowardly a man as I ever met.
You have no conception either, Mrs. Lukerr,
what he had to endure, and he has often and
often said to me : ' ' that life could never be
worth having until he was cured "  it was
when I told him he never could be cured
that he talked of suicide. He was a regular
old heathen, you know, and had no dread
of bogey or fear of a higher power to keep
him from taking the law into his own hands,
and I know, as well as that I am standing
here, that this is his doing.'

I see no reason why folks should not hear
of it, even if it is so,' persisted the housekeeper
; ' and nothing on this earth shall
make me believe it is anything but a foul
crime. Pain or no pain. Sir Marmaduke
would never have done such a deed; it is
not the time of year he would have chosen

either  September and October were his
favourite months. Now if it had been
December or January; but now  no, Dr.
Pearson, justice must be done, and you must
summon the coroner.'

'It is ridiculous, quite ridiculous,' urged
Dr. Pearson. ' You will cause a most unpleasant
scandal, and harm all Miss Standen's
future ; think, too, what she has to bear as it
is. She never knew of her mother, now she
must, as provision was made for her in the
will, and she is too sharp not to insist on
seeing that for herself; there is no concealing
anything from her. I only wonder
how Sir Marmaduke managed her as well ashe
contrived to do. What a life she has
had to be sure. I wonder what she will do,
now she is her own mistress ! She has
never even driven as far as Bodmin, has
she ? '

'Not she; not since the day they came

here, twenty years ago,' said Mrs. Liker
meditatively; 'and she knows no more of the
outside world than a bay; of comes, she
has talked to her teachers, and there is not a
book or a newspaper she has not read ; but
what's reading after all ? Half-an-hom in
Eegent Street tells you more of what's what
than a century of papers and magazines.
She is brim full of curiosity naturally, and
she'll be off like an arrow from a bow the
moment her Pa's buried. Often I've heard
her begging him to go up to town, and
declaring she should go mad if he kept her
down here year after year any more ; but he
always put her off with some excuse or other
next season, or when the hay was cut, it
might be. Once the boxes were packed, and
Missie was wild with joy, and then came on a
bad attack of pain, and, of course, they could
not go then. No, Dr. Pearson, it's been an
unnatural life for any girl ; and one can't

blame her if she tries to make up for lost
time. I only hope she will let me and
Andrew stay on here and keep the house.
Forty years in one place makes any spot
one's home and part of oneself; and it would
kill us both, I'm sure of that, had we to
leave the Holt.'

Now don't you see two excellent reasons
for accepting my view of the cause of death ? '
asked the doctor eagerly. * You know what
a coroner's inquest is here  a mere farce 
albeit I allow it is a very unpleasant one.
My evidence, after all, will be the only thing
Peters will listen to. I shall settle the
questions to be asked by him over a glass of
port this evening, and you will be under the
unpleasant suspicion of blackening your
master's character and harming his daughter ;
once mention this bottle, and, of course,
the verdict must be suicide, unless I tell
Peters you imagined the whole thing to getup

a sensation ; then do you think Miss
Standen will allow you to stay on here ?
beside which, you allow yourself the poor
girl has had a dismal existence, and with the
same breath proceed to make it doubly
dismal for her in the future. The daughter
of a live lunatic and a dead suicide will
hardly be received into society with open
arms. You leave matters as they are, Mrs.
Lukerr ; anyhow, they are bad enough ; and
if you take my advice you won't even tell
Andrew all you think. You know he is not
always to be trusted, more especially on
market days at the "Black Bear," and this
needs a still tongue.'

If all's true that's said there, you've no
call to throw out hints against him,' replied
Mrs. Lukerr angrily. ' Andrew ain't perfect,
nor quite as sober as one could wish ; but he
can go to his bed when he is half-seas over.
He ain't called up to attend poor sick folks

like some people, who lets them lie and
suffer, while he falls asleep on the sofa like a
pig, because he hadn't got over the effects of
his carouse. Andrew is not much to boast of,
still he does his duty, and never takes too
much as long as his work ain't done, and
that's more than can be said for some
folks,' and Mrs. Lukerr tossed her head
significantly, and glanced spitefully at her
antagonist.

Well, well, we're wasting time ; remember
there's that poor girl to be told,' said Dr.
Pearson, laughing unsteadily ; ' and there's
work to be done here, too. What is your
resolve, Mrs. Lukerr ? An inquest that will
result in nothing satisfactory, and will cause
Miss Standen the acutest misery now and
hereafter, or silence and my certificate ? I
haven't much more time to spare either,' he
added, looking at the watch that still ticked
steadily over the dead man's head, ' in hassan

-hour I am due at the surgery, so let me
hear at once how you decide.'

Well, I suppose you had better have your
own way,' grumbled Mrs. Lukerr, placing a
handkerchief over Su Marmaduke's face and
drawing down the blind again ; ' though, mind
you, I'm acting against my better judgment ;
it's murder, not suicide, that sent Sh' Mar-mature
out of the world, and you mark what
I say ; you and I will live to see my words
come true. And who's to tell Missie, I
wonder ? ' ' Oh, I'll do that,' said the doctor,
putting the little wine-glass in his pocket
unperceived by the housekeeper ; ' but is there
no one you can send for to be with her  an
old governess or girl-friend? By the way,
who comes in for the title ? '

A miserable clerk in the city, and much
good may it do him,' said Mrs. Lukerr. ' He
and his mother had better come down, I suppose;
he only gets the estate in Lancashire

one farm I think that is, and a tumble-down
house, and a ghost or two  all the real property
comes to Missie. You see, the Stances
as a family are poor ; although they are
come of such a very old stock Sir Marmaduke
made his money in trade, though we never
mention this ; and his wife had a large
dowry too, one handed straight over to
him on the wedding day, in the foolishness
manner. There was an awful scandal about
her,' she added, dropping her voice, ' and
then the next thing we heard was that she
went mad after Missie was born, which may
account for her tantrums and tempers at
times, which, as you know. Dr. Pearson, are
something awful.'

swell, we mustn't stop talking here anymore,'
answered the doctor, whose manner
towards the housekeeper had completely
changed since she had fallen in with his
proposition to do without any formal inquiry

into the cause of Sir Marmaduke's sudden
death ;  you have your work to do and I have
mine ; I only hope Miss Standen won't have
hysterics or any tantrums now. You send
for the new baronet, anyway, and I will tell
Smiles and Boscawen. I wish the next ten
minutes were over '  and so saying. Dr.
Pearson opened the door cautiously, and
slipped out into the passage, the housekeeper
turning the key in the lock again as soon ashe
had left the room.

Miss Standen was seated on the stairs,
leaning against the balustrades, round which
her hands were twined as if to support herself
from falling ; and as the doctor came out she
raised her head and looked him full in the
face, with calm brown eyes fixed on his.

*'He is dead'' she said, in a quiet unemotional
voice; ' you need not tell me, for I
know he is dead.' ' My dear young lady,'
began Dr. Pearson feebly, as he cleared his

throat, and took one of the cool shm hands
in his hot trembling ones, ' Sir Marmaduke is

at rest ; he is now in heaven, and ,' hereto

his horror Miss Standen laughed a low
musical laugh. ' You, too,' she said quietly,
you, too, who must see so much of the
comedies of life and death to talk such conventional
nonsense to me. Why, if there were
a heaven do you suppose I should be here
now ? Papa never for one moment credited
these old wives' tales, and of course I don't
either ; if he is dead he is dead, and so ends
chapter one of my existence' and the girl
rose to her feet wearily, and was going downstairs
without another word, when Dr. Pearson
put a detaining hand on her shoulder.

My dear,' he said, ' you are wrong, very
wrong; you must not take the trouble that has
come to you in such a dreadful manner.
Sorrow is sent by God ; in time you will see
your father again  now you are unhinged,

unstrung; do not try to talk, go and lie
down. I will send '  and here Dr. Pearson
paused, as indeed he knew of no one to send
to the help of this girl, for whose brain he
had already begun to fear.

There is no one to send, save Laura
at the Rectory, and they don't know she and
I are friends,' said Liza Standen, still as
quietly as if she were planning a party
of pleasure ;  Papa never let me speak to a
soul, but Laura and I have become acquainted
on the sly; will you ask them if she may
come, you can say you thought of it ; she
is about my age too, it will sound natural ;
and the rector is such an old fool, he will
be sure to think it so; besides, I shall be rich
now, and I shall have plenty of friends.'

Doctor Pearson literally gasped for breath ;
he remembered the mother in the lunatic
asylum, and thought perhaps it would be best
to humour the girl, whose senses of course

VOL. I. c

were temporarily deranged by the blow she
had sustained; and presently he said, 'Neither
you nor I have had any breakfast, suppose
we have a cup of coffee together before I goon
my way; I promise you to send Laura
Buckworth if they see no objection; but
before I go I should like to see you more
natural  can you not cry, dear ? it would do
you a world of good

Cry?' asked the girl, as she went downstairs
and seated herself at the table prepared
for her, and for him who would never eat nor
drink with her again ; ' why should I cry ?
It is so useless to cry for what is over and
done. Wliy did papa die. Dr. Pearson ; will
there have to be an inquest ? ' and here for
the first time the hard clear voice broke a
little, and a pale shade came over the beautiful
quiet oval face.

*No, no, my dear, nothing of the kind,
thank heaven ! ' replied the doctor with

emotion, his hand instinctively closing on the
phial and glass safely ensconced in his coat
pocket ; ' his heart was the cause, Miss
Stand en ; he might have died at any moment
this last ten years ; he could not have lived
six months longer save by a miracle. I am
only thankful his long sufferings are over,
and he has died quietly in his bed  it might
have been so awful

You mean, you mean he has died of heart
disease, and must have died anyhow,' exclaimed
Liza, jumping up and pacing the
room in an agitated manner ; ' why was I
not told this, I ought to have been; it might
have altered my whole life.'

The very reason why you were not told,'
replied Dr. Pearson, watching the girl with
amazement ; ' you could not possibly have
kept it from him, and the shock of such
a piece of intelligence would have killed
him on the spot ; beside which, think of

VOL. I. c 2

all yon would have endured any time he
was five minutes late for dinner or breakfast !
No, no ! depend upon it, in such cases as
these, silence is best, both for the victim
himself and also for his friends

'I will never forgive you, never. Dr.
Pearson ! ' said the girl fiercely, as she
turned towards the door ; ' finish your breakfast
and then never let me see your face again.
I hate you ! I hate you ! I hate you ! ' and
bursting into a flood of passionate tears, she
ran from the room, and Dr. Pearson heard
her door slam in a manner that echoed
strangely indeed through the house, where
already the indescribable silence of death
was lying like a heavy though imperceptible
pall.

The doctor soon finished his breakfast,
and telling Andrew what had happened,
went home as fast as his trusted cob could
take him, and going into the tiny space

that was dignified by the name of the consulting
room, cast himself down into his
armchair, and drawing the bottle from his
pocket, groaned aloud as he contemplated it.
Such a good man ! Such an excellent
patient ! ' he muttered. ' I'll go to Buck-worth
and sign the pledge this very evening ;
if this don't sober a man I can't tell what
will.'

What's the matter, Tom '? ' asked a talL
thin, half starved looking woman, who was
writing at a desk, which, with the armchair
and an office stool was all the furniture the
little chamber could contain. ' Is Sir Mar-mature
really dead ? If so, there will bea
heavy account to send in to his executors.'

That's not all, Betty,' said the doctor,
almost in tears ; ' that's not all ; the poor
old chap has been poisoned, and by me.
They sent for his last draught in a hurry
after the Foresters' dinner at the "Bear,"

and I must have been screwed ; there's
enough prussic acid in here to kill twenty
men. I think I'd better take the rest, and
have done with it all. I shall feel like Cain
for the remainder of my life

You needn't,' said Mrs. Pearson quietly ;
I made up that draught, as I have made up
hundreds of others, and there was no poison
in it when it left me. Do you suppose for one
moment that I should allow you to tamper
with the drugs after a dinner at the ' ' Bear ' ' ?
No ! Whoever has poisoned Sir Marmaduke,
it is neither you nor I, rest assured of that,
though, perhaps, I am a fool to tell you ; the
dread might have sobered you for the rest of
your life.'

It has anyhow,' replied Dr. Pearson; ' I'll
never drink again ; these last few hours I've
literally been in hell, and I don't run such
another risk. I do believe old Lukerr was
right  there's been foul play.'

What is to be on the certificate ? ' asked
Mrs. Pearson, going on with her writing.

Death from natural causes, and then the
proper medical terms, which you know as
well as I do,' said the doctor, rising and
looking about for the forms. * Though now
I am all right, perhaps it would be wiser if I
were to send to Peters about an inquest.'

Don't you do anything of the kind,' said
Mrs. Pearson quietly. ' I have an idea there
is money in this business. What should you
say, Tom, to a London practice and a good
income ? I, for one, am tired of Bridgeporth.'

Say! why, that you are a brick for suggesting
such a thing ' ! said the doctor,
gallantly ; ' but that is as probable as that
you should be presented at Court.'

What are you doing ? ' shrieked his wife,
rushing at him as he withdrew the cork of
the phial previous to disposing of the contents
in the fire. ' That once destroyed,

good-bye to our chances of a better life than
this. Give it to me, for heaven's sake ! '

*I'll give it you, certainly,' said Dr.
Pearson, relinquishing it to his wife, who
hastily locked it and the medicine glass up in
her desk together. * But,' added he, as he
watched her careful proceedings, ' I can't for
the life of me see what you're driving at.'

'I don't suppose you can,' she answered
contemptuously ; ' neither am I going to tell
you. But you remember, I have never failed
you yet. Now go off to your patients, and
avoid the "Bear" bar, and we shall not
quarrel. I will give you plenty of notice to
allow of your selling this practice before I
am ready for London. But I have a clue to
the mystery, and if I don't make money out
of it my name is not Betting Pearson.'

Elizabeth Pearson, you mean,' said the
doctor, laughing. ' Ah ! there's the bell,' he
added, as the sullen sound of the knell

penetrated the air. ' The news has got wind,
then. Now to tell all Bridgeporth that Su'
Marmaduke's death was from heart disease
And so saying, he bustled off to his patients,
leaving his wife at the desk, where were
safely locked up all the evidence existent
that Sir Marmaduke's demise had been
caused by aught except natural causes.

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE.

Liza Standen threw herself down in the low
arm-chair that stood in the window recess
in her room, when she rushed away from the
presence of Dr. Pearson, and remained therefor
some time thinking deeply.

At first torrents of tears had obscured her
eyes, and heavy sobs shook her breast; but
she soon became calm, and realizing that
her father was dead and her future all her
own, began to lay plans as to how she should
best spend the next few months of her life ;
but she had hardly come to any satisfactory
conclusion in the matter, when a low knock

came at the door, and the housekeeper's
voice was heard begging for admission.

Liza rose, and burying her face in her
wet handkerchief once more, opened the
door, and allowed her old nurse to enter.

Casting a furtive glance at the sorrow-stricken
girl, Mrs. Lukerr went to the window
and drew down the blind ; then she said,
 Your dear father is ready to be seen now,
Missie ; will you come with me and look upon
him?'

What for ? ' asked Liza coldly, drawing
up the blind again.

What for ? ' said the housekeeper, throwing
up her hands in horror ; ' what for ? why to
see him, to say good-bye ; he looks years
younger already, Missie, and so peaceful.
Donee come, dearie,' pleaded she, insensibly
falling back into the old familiar tones of
Liza's childhood days ; * you'll never cry
again when you see how happy he looks.'

Happy ! oh, what nonsense,' exclaimed
Liza, ' how could he be happy in being
dead ? If he knew anything at all about it
he would be furiously angry at leaving this
lovely world and me, and as he does not
I mean to remember him as he was last
night, laughing over the paper and teasing
Flick. I don't want to carry away a picture
of him dead. Do leave the blind alone,
Maria,' she added imperiously; 'I won't have
it drawn down  it is too dull, too dark.'

But what will folks say ? ' stammered the
housekeeper ; ' you should not fly in the face
of custom here, Missie dear, any more. It
was all very well when Sir Marmaduke was
here to look after you ; but now  oh ! my
bairn, my heart aches for you ; you have
not one friend in the world to tell you wrong
from right, or right from wrong. And there's
your black to see to, and me so ignorant 
I don't even know if all crape is worn nowadays

for a parent, or bombazine, or whatnot;


'I am not going to wear black,' said Liza
calmly; 'nothing would induce me to. Papa
hated it, and said what a sham it all was.
Why, you must recollect nurse, I did not
even wear black ribands for mamma, and I
most certainly don't intend to be wrapped
up in crape now. Oh ! don't think me
heartless,' she added, her manner changing
a little as she saw her old nurse's horrified
face; 'recollect how different I am to every
other girl who ever was born : how I have
never seen a railway, or been a dozen miles
from the Holt for the last twenty years ;
how papa's one end and aim in life was
to keep me from being like those fellow
creatures of mine, to whom he would not
even let me speak; how can I be a conventional
daughter weeping her dead father ?
Of course, he has been all in all to me, and

I shall miss him horribly; but I can't belike
other girls the moment he is dead, for
he has always done his best to make me an
original specimen, and he has succeeded. I
have neither religion nor morals, and, thanks
to him, have not a friend in the world to
take me by the hand,' and once more bursting
into tears she threw herself down on her
knees by her nmse and bmied her face in
her dress, as if she would hide herself from
the light. The housekeeper, much as she
disapproved of Liza, could not refrain from
mingling her tears with hers.

'There, there,' she said soothingly, after
a while, ' don't cry so, Missie dear ; it can
do no good, and will only make you ill.
Have you never heard anything of your
mother ? ' she added, when Liza's sobs were
once more stayed, and she had risen from
her lowly posture. 'Did Sir Marmaduke
never mention her ? '

Oh yes, often,' Liza replied wearily;
but only as one more reason why we should
remain buried down here. She was the
daughter of some man in trade, he said,
and died like the Lady of Burleigh, from the
*' burden of an honour unto which she was
not born' She was very pretty, you can see
that'  and she opened a secret drawer in her
desk, and took out an oval miniature of a
simpering lady, with soft curls on each side
of her face, and a large lace collar, in the
fashion of about 1851. * This was done two
years before they married. He was thirty-two
when she became Lady Standen, and I
believe she loved somebody else. However,
she married papa, and here am I, twenty-two,
and with only this to show that I have had a
mother. I do wonder what she was like ! '

My dear,' said the housekeeper, in an
agitated whisper, holding the miniature in a
very shaky hand, and pretending to look at

it, the while she watched Liza carefully, * my
dear, Dr. Pearson thinks you ought to
know that there are doubts as to your
mother's death. No one is sure, in fact.'

In fact, she is alive, I suppose ? ' asked
Liza, a fierce colour burning in her cheeks.
"Well, there is another surprise ! Do you
know she is not dead, nurse ? ' Then as she
saw from her old nurse's face that such was
indeed the state of the case, she paused for
an instant, as if struck by a sudden idea, and
then added, with an unsteady laugh  ' What
did she do ? Did she run away from papa ?
Did she rob the bank, or murder anyone ? ' 
her voice faltered a little here. * Come, outwith
it. There is one thing about my
education  it has most certainly eradicated
any trace of feeling in me '  and she laughed
again, still more unsteadily than before.
 Never mind breaking it to me, I really feel
as if I could bear anything ; and if you know

she is still in the land of the living, you must
know, too, why she has been dead to us for
so long.'

She is not wicked, only unfortunate,'
wept Mrs. Lukerr. 'Prepare for a shock,
dear Missie ; your poor mother is shut up 
that is to say '

Then that is why I have been kept
separate from my fellow-creatures,' interrupted
Liza, turning as white as a sheet.
'Well, I can't blame papa; a convict's
daughter is not fit company for other gMs.'

She ain't a convict, Missie dear. Poor
soul ! she'd be happier if she were, may-be,'
said Mrs. Lukerr sadly. ' She is shut up
because she ain't in her right mind, and
hasn't been since a week after you were
born ; in fact, she is really mad  dangerous.
That's why Sir Marmaduke put her away ;
she actually tried to kill him ! '

Then that accounts for it ! ' exclaimed

VOL. I. D

Liza, starting to her feet and clasping her
hands.

I don't know what you mean, exactly
said Mrs. Lukerr meditatively ; ' but it
certainly does account for the poor lady being
in an asylum; but don't go for to worry
about it, it ain't hereditary. No other
member of her family ever went mad, and
this was entirely due to a shock given her at
a time when she couldn't well bear it. It's a
sad story, and a warning to all who marry for
anything but love. However, this ain't a
time to talk of love, and your poor papa not
cold yet, and a thousand things to see to.
Andrew has telegraphed for the " hare," but
neither he nor his mother can be here for
hours.'

Who has Andrew telegraphed to ? ' asked
Liza suspiciously. ' This is my house, Maria,
and I want no one here until I know what I
am going to do.'

Young Mr. Charles Standen and his
mother said Mrs. Lukerr ; ' Sir Charles, ashe
is now. The lawyers said he must come,
and of course Mrs. Standen must be with
him ; it would never do for a young gentleman
to be staying here alone with you, even
at such a time as this.'

Oh, what nonsense ! ' ejaculated Liza
angrily ; ' anyhow, they don't come here.
Why, I never spoke to a young man in my
life, and I'm not going to be bothered by
strangers now. There's the ** Black Bear,"
they can sleep there ; though why they come
at all, I can't think. Charles Standen may
have the title, but he receives nothing else,
and this house, as I said before, is mine.'

Well, well, Missie, it ain't many young
ladies who'd like to be left alone in this big
place, with a coffin in it,' said Mrs. Lukerr
mysteriously.  I ain't a coward, and I'd go
in and out all day long, for Sir Marmaduke's

VOL. I. D 2



a pleasant sight ; still, night and day are
different tales ; and, though Andrew ain't of
much account, I shall not be sorry to remember
he's bound to stay all night with
me ; which is the one mercy about matrimony
; thieves and ghosts alike are less
likely to go where two are than where one
bides alone.'

Ghosts ! pah ! ' said Liza scornfully ;
that nonsense comes of going to church ;
you should believe nothing and then you'd
fear nothing. I can't think myself what
religion was made for.'

To keep people straight, of course, and to
make them loving and affectionate,' replied
Mrs. Lukerr severely. ' You'd feel your poor
papa's death a million times more and take
your trouble a thousand times better if you'd
any thoughts of God and heaven to help you;
as it is, you shock me. Miss Liza, and I only
hope you will not shock all the world beside ;

remember you will want friends, and to make
real good ones yon must be like other
people

I won't be like other people,' exclaimed
Liza, throwing open a couple of big scrap-books
that lay on her table. ' Look here,
nurse ; these are accounts of what other
people do  other people, you know, who goto
church, wear black for each other, and go
out to parties and have friends ; all these
bits of paper are cut out of The Times and
Daily Nets, and the World, and papa said
I was to look upon these as so many direction
posts pointing to Bridgeport!! and away
from the world of fashion  there's some
improving reading in these volumes, I do
assure you. I've got four or five all full of
murders, and thefts, and horrors of all sorts,
to say nothing of accounts of fine ladies and
noble lords who live lives our fishermen and
women in the village would scorn to copy.

See here ! ' and she placed her finger on a
long account of the very last fashionable
divorce case.

Nice improving reading that for a young
lady,' said the housekeeper flushing. 'You'd
better read your Bible, Missie, and your
prayer-book, any day. Well ! I can but hope
trouble will soften you and bring you to a
better frame of mind.'

Trouble. What is trouble ? ' said Liza
dreamily. ' I wonder if ever I shall long for
papa and the old days here when I am faraway
? That reminds me,' she added,
after a moment's pause, ' I must see my
mother before I set out on my travels. My
mother ! I can hardly believe she is alive
and mad. Mad ! What is mad, I wonder ? '

What people will say you are, if you sit
at the window in that red dress, and the bell
still tolling in Bridgeporth,' said Mrs. Lukerr
angrily. ' Come, Missie, put on your black

serge frock and sit down and write to your
dressmaker ; it will be something to distract
your thoughts, which, I take it, is one of the
great uses of ordering black; it eases the
spirits like, and softens down the idea of the
loss. Why ! ' she exclaimed, as she went upto
the window to make another attempt to
darken the chamber in the orthodox way, ' if
I don't believe there's the rector and Miss
Laura ! Well ! the rector's right enough,
but Miss Laura  I suppose her ma has sent
her off to spy about.'

Nothing of the sort. I sent for her 
she's my friend,' said Liza quickly. She is
good to come at once. Run down, nurse,
and tell her to come up directly, there's a
good soul; but don't let Mr. Buckworth put
his nose inside the hail ; we don't want any
parsons here. Come, be quick, there's a dear
creature ! '

I don't stir an inch until your frock is

changed, not if I stay here till doomsday
said Mrs. Liker firmly, getting out the dress
from the drawer, and pulling the blind down
with a jerk that made Liza remember her
nursery days, and similar jerks and pulls
administered to refractory locks and frocks.
I know Mr. Buckworth's tongue, and Miss
Laura's a chip of the old block ; and how you
two have become acquainted passes my comprehension,
so strict as were Sir Marmaduke's
orders too.'

Many things will pass your comprehension
before we part company, Maria,'
said Liza easily, as she took off the offending
garment, and put on the orthodox hue of
mourning. * Don't look upon my obedience
now as a foretaste of the future. I only
comply to get rid of you quickly, and because
I want Laura. Now rush down to her ; tell
Mr. Buckworth any lie you like to get rid of
him, and don't come near us until luncheon-time,'

and so saying, Liza finished fastening
her dress ; and Mrs. Lukerr, not knowing, as
she stated afterwards many times, whether
she stood on her head or her heels, went
down stairs to the rector, who was too
brimful of curiosity respecting the manner
and time of Sir Marmaduke's death, and was
far too much engaged in taking a mental
photograph of the Holt dining-room for
Mrs. Buckworth's benefit, to notice the very
lame manner in which Mrs. Lukerr attempted
to excuse Miss Standen to him, the while
she begged for Miss Laura's immediate
company for her young mistress.

You are sure Miss Standen would rather
not see me ? ' he said, just before leaving.
'Well, should she change her mind, Miss
Laura can bring me word. Curious she
should beg for Miss Laura, considering they
have never met, or, rather, have never spoken.
Ah ! I suppose we shall see many changes at

the Holt now, Mrs. Lukerr '? The good old
days will return, and Bridgeporth charities
will not be forgotten, eh ? '

Can't say, I m sure, sir,' said Mrs. Lukerr,
who being a staunch dissenter had but faint
appreciation of Mr. Buckworth's merits ; ' it's
early days, and my poor master scarcely
cold,' and putting her handkerchief to her
eyes, she began to sob.

Ah, yes, indeed; I had forgotten,' uttered
the rector hastily. 'Well, Laura,, child, do;
your best to cheer the orphan ' ; then he added, >
hastily, ' perhaps I had better wait here until
you have gone up with our good friend ; '
Miss Standen may have altered her mind ' 
and, as if suddenly struck with the idea, the
rector seated himself pompously and heavily
on one of the old oak hall-chairs, and watched
his daughter disappear up the staircase in
the wake of the housekeeper, thus gaining at
least five minutes more time, to add details to

the picture he would have to unfold for the
inspection of his loving wife.

Indeed, the Holt, Sir Marmaduke, Liza,
and all that appertained to them, had so long
been the one subject of conversation in
Bridgeporth, that the rector might well be
forgiven his natural curiosity; and he was
meditating whether dread of a draught from
the hall door would be sufficient excuse for
penetrating to the drawing-room, when Mrs.
Lukerr returned, and assuring him that Miss
Standen was in far too much grief to see
him, showed him out so quickly that he
almost tumbled down the steps, and only
recovered his usual calm manner half-way
down the avenue, where he paused for a
moment  noticing with all the horror of an
orthodox churchman, that at least two
windows were uncurtained, and that at one of
them were to be seen two faces, that he
trusted were the property of the maidservants,

the while he felt assured that they
belonged to his daughter and to the
mysterious heiress ; and shaking his head, he
hurried home, wondering if he were not imperilling
his daughter's soul by allowing her
to be in company with a girl who could lookout
of the window, with her father lying dead
in the same house.

He would have shaken it still more if he
would have heard the talk that went on in
that luxurious room, more especially if he
had known that the pause in his walk had
caused Liza to say  "I do think your father
the very funniest little man I ever saw. I do
wish he did not always remind me of a good-natured
pig on his hind legs. If I were you,
Laura, I'd get him to grow a beard, the resemblance
then would not be quite as striking
as it is now ! ' But as he could not hear words
said behind a glass window a hundred yards
or more off, he returned home, brimming

with news, and feeling rather more pleased
with himself than usual, which was saying a
very great deal indeed.

When Laura first entered Miss Standen's
bed-room she had felt that indescribable
sensation of strangeness and nervousness,
that makes one's most intimate friend a dread
and pain to encounter for the first time after
they have lost those who, presumably, have
been dear to them. There is a strangeness,
almost a sacredness, about anyone who has
recently been face to face with death, and,
in consequence, a meeting after such an
encounter must always be fraught with some
degree of dread and uncomfortableness. There
is no knowing how sorrow will be greeted,
whether as a friend or as a foe ; or if we are
to speak of those who are gone or to carefully
avoid their names, and as there is nothing so
different on earth as the effect caused by a
loss, so until we have felt our way and

ascertained what we are to say and do, we
must invariably feel strangers even to our
nearest and dearest friends; and though
Laura had a pretty shrewd guess as to
Liza's real feelings, she yet hesitated a little
as to what she should say first when she
found herself in Liza's presence, more especially
as the black dress seemed to denote
that, after all, she and sorrow had met and
clasped hands.

But all dread and hesitation disappeared
when Liza sprang to her feet, and, rapturously
greeting her, drew her down beside her on
the sofa.

We little dreamed of this yesterday, did
we ? ' she asked. ' Oh ! Laura ! think of it 
free, free at last ! '

But Sir Marmaduke ? ' faltered Laura,
feeling rather as if she had received a sudden
douche of cold water. ' Are you not sorry
your father is dead ? You have been crying,

Liza ; do be natural, clear. I shall think no
worse of yon, I can tell you, if you breakdown
now it has really and truly come. You
were fond of him, weren't you ? '

Laura ! Laura ! I am natural  quite
natural,' said Liza impatiently; 'and that's
why I sent for you, as nothing I can say ordo
will shock you or alter our friendship.
You know what I am and what I want to be.
No,' she added, after a few moments; *I
will not pretend one atom to you. I am not
sorry papa has gone. I have lost my gaoler.
At last I shall go away from Bridgeporth, and
I shall see the world. I have been crying,
but not for that  for things I won't even tell
you, for I have my secrets. Now we won't
think of anything disagreeable. Where shall
we go first  what shall we do ? '

'I don't think mamma will let me go,' said
Laura, tears coming into her blue eyes.
You see, I'm eldest. Then, too, Liza, you

must have someone who has seen a Httle of
the world. If Sh' Marmaduke has been your
gaoler, poverty has been mine. I, too, have
never left Bridgeporth  fourteen miles from a
station and small means keep people very
stationary, you know, and this wretched income
of papa's is a reason, too, why I must
remain. Someone must help mamma withall
those dreadful boys. You will go away
and forget all about me,' and the tears left
Laura's eyes and came trickling down her
round red cheeks.

I shall pay you a salary that will keep a
governess at home,' said Liza grandly.
'Anyhow, I must have you with me; you
never care what I say, and nothing shocks
you, yet you serve as a drag on the wheels.
You have relations who come to see you;
you have dined out, and played tennis, and
talked to someone out of your own house,
this I never have done, so you can tell me

when I have gone far enough. Papa's ideas
of education were queer, as you know. I
have had a regular course of instruction in
the wickedness, dulness, and folly of the
world, and now I am determined to find out
the other side of the question for myself, and
while I am finding it you must act as signpost
to me as regards my manners and conversation.'


But suppose there is no other side to the
question; suppose the world is as bad as Sir
Marmaduke said it was ? ' asked Laura. * Papa
is always preaching about the hollowness and
wickedness of it all ; so perhaps there is
nothing there but sin and suffering.'

Anyhow, I am going to find it out for
myself,' said Liza easily; * your father, I
suppose, is paid to say so ; he has taken a
brief for the other side, as papa used to say,
and so is bound to talk nonsense. If I have
read all these paragraphs here,' she added 

VOL. I. B

touching the books that were open on the
table, * I have read others too ; and I mean
to go to balls and theatres and concerts, and
enjoy myself ; I only hope I shan't go mad
with joy  oh, dulness has much to answer
for ! if I had not been deadly, deadly dull ; if
papa had lived the life of an ordinary gentleman,
things would have been very different ;
he is responsible, not I, for any folly or
wickedness I may commit or have committed,'
and Liza rose from the sofa and walked quickly
up and down the room in a manner she
always did when she was excited or harassed
in the least.

Oh, you won't be wicked, and folly in
an heiress is always excusable,' said Laura
shrewdly ; ' only Liza, do you remember you
don't know one single soul in London, and you
can't get into society there, unless you have
a helping hand held out to you. Now my
advice is this : spend your year of mourning

quietly here, going to all the houses in the
county to teas or luncheon  not dinners; no,
dinners mean dress, and dress is not in
keeping with crape; then, either Lady Peters
or the Duchess will take you in hand, and
there you are. The moment you are seen at
the rectory,' she added (with all the country
parson's daughter's conceit and belief in the
almighty powers of that proud position), ' that
moment people will come to the Holt.'

Liza burst out into a peal of laughter. ' It
is very good of you,' she said, when she
could speak ; ' but not even the joy of being
received by the rectory, to say nothing of the
county, will keep me here one instant after
I know what my income is, and how papa
has arranged matters ; as to mourning, as no
one knows me in London, no one will expect
me to keep up a farce, that even on your own
showing is too ridiculous. Grief must be a
queer thing if it allows people to go out to

VOL. I. E 2

tea and luncheon, and yet draws the line at a
dinner. If I felt sorry for papa's death in
the least, I should be drowned in tears, and
should die too ; but I am not  it is his own
fault that I am not  and come what will,
Laura, I will not pretend to be anything or
anyone but what I am.'

But everyone is sorry for their father's
death,' persisted Laura ; ' and so you must
say you are, or no one will speak to you.'

Then they can let it alone,' replied Liza ;
but you forget the power of gold ; beside,
whatever I do, I can fall back on my bringing
up. Is your father  are all fathers  I
wonder, as touchy and tiresome as mine
was ? But they couldn't be. Yours, at any
rate, is distributed among ten offsprings. I
had the whole strength of mine turned on tome,
and how I bore it as long as I did I can't
think. He was eccentric  a bore ; and
cared more about his dinner, his wine, his

daily papers than for anything else. If he
had cared for me he would not have kept me
here.'

All the world says you were devoted to
each other,' suggested Laura in a small voice.

The world ! What world ? The world of
Bridgeporth, I presume,' said Laura contemptuously.
'Well,' added she, after a moment's
pause, ' perhaps it is as well that Bridgeporth
should take that view of the question. A
devoted daughter is always a safe card to play.
It maybe, until after the funeral, I had better
be the proper-minded miss. I'll ask your
mother to get my black  be too overcome to
leave my home, where I have plenty to do,
and as many books and papers as I want to
read, and a whole heap of chocolate creams ;
and then  and then  why, then, of course,
my health and spirits will require immediate
change, and off you and I go together. Your
mother must be sent for, Laura. She shall

have such confidence in me, that she will
consent to anything I ask her. Shall I ring
for Lukerr, and tell her to send for her posthaste
? Get out the Queen and the Ladies
Pictorial, and read the advertisements. I
really don't know what black is worn. I amas
ignorant as even my old nm*se is '  and
Liza rose as if she were about to ring the
bell.

'Stop a minute,' said Lama hastily. 'If
mamma once gets her foot in here, she'll
remain as long as ever you do, and she'll
send me home to mind the house and look
after papa. Before this happens we should
have some plans, Liza. If we do get away,
where do you mean to go, and how do you
mean to manage ? '

''I have settled everything. See here
said Liza, taking an advertisement .out of her
purse, and handing it over to her friend ; ' I
saw this in Tuesday's Times, and also in the

Guardian, and I thought it might do. Two
ladies, you see, want two more to live with
them, to share their home and the society
they have. Of course, I shall make enquiries,
and have references. But it sounds well.
Did you notice that they live in Belgravia,
and are reduced in circumstances by reason
of the depression in agriculture ? '

Then they'll be Irish and eccentric,' said
Laura, still reading the advertisement.
Funnily enough, Liza, they have given
Uncle John's address.'

Who on earth is Uncle John ? ' asked
Liza.

 He's a lawyer. I thought everyone knew
him,' replied Laura, ' anyhow, if he manages
their business, mamma will be satisfied and
pleased. And you go to these ladies at once,
Liza, always supposing they will take us in ? '

No, not at once. I shall go and look after
my mother,' said Liza. 'Oh, I forgot, you

didn't know she was alive, poor thing. She
is in an asylum, and mad ; but I mean to see
her for myself. This may be papa's way of
disposing of her, and she may not be mad
after all. He did not like her. She bothered
him ; wasn't a lady, you know, and had
vulgar relations, and he may have got her
placed with some unscrupulous doctor ; it is
easy enough. I wonder, by the way, he
never got shut up himself; I am sure he was
mad to bring me up as he did.'

There was no one to tell of him,' said
Laura.

That's true enough,' replied Liza ; ' but
now, Laura, what do you say ? Shall I send
for your mother, or not ? Shall I be natural,
or unnatural ? The orthodox daughter, or
Liza Standen herself? An unpleasant, but
original creature, or creatures ? for really
sometimes I verily believe I am two different
individuals bound up in one skin. One nice,

good, amiable. The other unscrupulous,
designing, wicked, determined to enjoy life,
and to take all I can get, whether I have to
steal it or not. Not that I should mind this,
if the two would agree, but they won't, and
sometimes, particularly when the mischief
comes to the fore, I am very uncomfortable.'

That is your conscience,' said little orthodox
Laura.

Bosh ! rather say some mild ancestor,
endeavouring to live again in me,' replied
Liza, in a more forcible than ladylike
manner ; ' however, once out of Bridgeporth,
I bid him or her good-bye. Neither conscience
nor aught else shall spoil my life. I
have long arrears to make up. Do you know
1 am twenty-two already, not nearly as pretty
as I was, and here I might have remained
until I became a withered old maid. All! it
won't bear thinking of. Come, Laura, send
for your mother, and let us be melancholy,

or I shall forget myself entirely, and I really
do want to leave a good character behind me
So saying, Liza rang the bell, and scribbling
a note, sent off Andrew for Mrs. Buckworth,
much to Mrs. Lukerr's anger, and the extreme
joy of the rector's most excellent wife, who,
apart from any natural curiosity, really felt
all a mother's sympathy for the poor girl
at the Holt, who had so suddenly been left
alone in a world of which she appeared to be
as ignorant as the world undoubtedly was of
her.

AN EDGELESS TOOL.

The day after Sir Marmaduke Stand en's
death, the weather changed in the sudden
manner it so often does in September, and
a raving, roaring wind swept down the hills
from the sea, laden with mist and rain, that
played havoc among the flower beds, tore
down the great magnolia from the front of
the house, and finally threw down several
of the largest trees in the park ; while Liza
Standen, driven to despair by the weather
and the presence of Mrs. Brickwork in the
house, began to wish that she too were dead,
or that the awful week would pass, during

which, according to custom, her father's
body lay in semi-state in the library, carefully
watched by hired mourners, who,
doubtless, were as anxious for their task
to be over as ever Liza was to see the
last of them.

If she could have wandered about the
grounds matters would not have been so
unbearable, but as it was she literally felt
as if she must scream aloud and drop the
mask she had assumed for Mrs. Buckworth's
benefit, little knowing how ill it fitted and
how thoroughly well the shrewd woman knew
what was false and what was real in the
manner and behaviour of the curious girl.

Quite unlike the ordinary clergyman's wife,
Mrs. Buck worth was emphatically a woman
of the world ; and if at times she confessed
to herself that in her husband she had a
man as companion who was about as foolish
and self-satisfied a being as ever existed, and

who added neither to her happiness nor to
her welfare, she was shrewd enough to recognise
that being married to him was a better
fate than would have been hers had she and
he never met.

Overdone with children, often not knowing
how to clothe, feed, or educate them, when
she contrasted her position with that of the
underpaid governess she once was, she still
felt, to a certain extent, grateful to him ; and
recognising that for her life could never hold
much that was pleasant or satisfactory again,
she bent all her energies towards securing
for her children something a little more
promising than had been afforded her.

Spurred on by this hope, undaunted by
sickness and babies, Mrs. Buckworth had
educated her children as few mothers could
have done ; and in her moments of leisure,
when walking briskly over the rough country
roads or on the shore, she would busy herself

with observing carefully each child's
natural bent ; the while she looked ahead
and wondered over and over again, how she
was to manage to provide special education
for the active brains and hands that the
children, one and all, seemed to inherit
from her. Fortunately one day something
suggested to her that she might try and
write, as so many women wrote, and casting
her thoughts abroad determined to try her
hand at the craft. Of course, at first, no
success crowned her efforts ; allegories, instructive
tales of village children all seemed
drugs in the market, and all returned to
her with a regularity that was trying to the
stoutest heart ; but Mrs. Buckworth was not
to be conquered by fate, and by the time
she had begun to blush hotly whenever she
casually met the village postman, a little
sketch she had sent to a paper was accepted ;
she had found her groove, and, notwithstanding

the numerous calls upon her time,
was able to earn enough to send two of the
boys to an excellent school and to give
Laura some lessons, sharing the expenses
of a really good governess with the daughter
of one of the smaller county gentry in the
neighbourhood.

To such a woman as this, the idea of the
friendship existing between her daughter
and the young mistress at the Holt, had
come almost as a special gift from providence
; but as Mrs. Buckworth watched Liza,
with the careful eye of a mother accustomed
to look out for small straws that should
show the direction of the current, she reluctantly
came to the conclusion that no child
of hers could ever be allowed to become a
bosom friend of such an abnormal creature as
she recognised, unwillingly, Liza Standen to
be ; and, sorry as she was for her, she yet
felt obliged to tell Liza this, one evening

when they were alone together, and Liza
was occupying herself with adding some
particularly realistic accounts of crime to
her already over-filled collection of cuttings
of a similar character.

I don't think, if I were you,' she began
(the soft white knitting she was busy overlying
for a moment disregarded on the table),
I really don't think, Liza, that I should read
such awful things as you do; there are so
many good books in the world, why not try
them, and give up adding to that terrible
collection of yours ? '

Because papa always wished me to read
how bad the world is ; and now he is dead it
would be mean to give up doing what he told
me to,' replied Liza calmly ; ' besides, I like
horrors, Mrs. Buckworth, and it always amuses
me to see how foolish criminals are; they
invariably leave something behind them, or
forget some detail that makes detection

imperative ; and I can't help thinking how
much better I should manage if I were in their
places. Still,' added she, as she recognised
that she was making a false step, * I will give
it all up if you like; anyhow, I won't allow
Laura to share my literature.'

I am afraid you will be disappointed,' said
Mrs. Buckworth firmly, * and I am afraid you
will be very angry with me, too ; but you
must not think anything more about Laura ;
I could not spare her from home, even if I
could trust her with you ; but you have been
so strangely brought up, you have so little
idea of right and wrong, that I should not
dare to let you see my daughter alone anymore.
Forgive me, Liza, but I always say
straight out what I think ; and it is better to
tell you at once the resolution I have made,
then you can form other plans at once.'

But why have you come to this conclusion
? ' asked Liza, much amused at Mrs.

VOL. I. F

Buckworth's evident fear of her anger. ' I
have behaved like an angel all the time you
have been here ; I have even put up with
Mr. Standen's flatteries and fooleries, and I
don't believe I have uttered one speech that
anyone could object to; I have done my very
best to be all I should be, and I am sure the
effort has nearly killed me

'Exactly so,' replied Mrs. Buckworth; *I
have seen all through what an effort it has
been to you to be even silent. I have noticed
your favourite pursuits, your favourite reading,
and I have heard sentiments from your lips
that are inexcusable in a Christian country.
You are like no one I have ever seen, Liza,
and I dare not trust Laura with you ; remember,
she has deceived us all by knowing
you at all, and this indicates to me that she
is not trustworthy. Had she a stronger
intellect and will than those you possess,
matters might be different; but I cannot

imperil my child's soul, even to secure her
present benefits  even if I could secure her
those.'

Why, of course you would ! ' exclaimed
Liza. ' There is no ''if" in the matter. She is
miserable at home, in all the turmoil and
poverty by which she is surrounded. She
longs for better clothes, better food, for a nicer
house, and a sight of the world. Were I
you, I should be frightened lest she should
hate me, if you condemn her to go on as
she has been going. Remember she has had
at least a glance at the Promised Land,
how she would detest anyone who draws
down a veil between her and it again. Thmk
of that side of the picture, Mrs. Buckworth.'

My child would never hate her mother,'
replied Mrs. Buckworth in a dignified
manner. ' She will be disappointed, of
course; sorry, and perhaps a little angry;
but in time she will see I have acted for the

VOL. I. F 2

best. Has she ever complained to you of her
Hfe, Liza, or are you drawing on your own
imagination ? ' and Mrs. Buckworth resumed
her knitting, but with fingers that trembled
too much to be of any service to her.

She has not complained exactly,' replied
Liza heedlessly ; ' but I know she shared all
my sentiments of hatred towards Bridgeporth;
and when I declared the place was a prison
she agreed with me. I don't believe I should
ever have made friends with her if our
acquaintance had not had a spice of romance
about it ; but now we are friends, you can't
have the heart to separate us. It was dulness
that made her first of all deceive you,
and dulness may have a worse effect on her
yet. Have you the smallest notion what life
here is like for a young and active gii-l ? '

 I was only your age, Liza, when I came
here first,' said Mrs. Buckworth rising fi'om
the table, and walking to the window she

looked out into the night, as if to gain a few
moments' time ; then she added   You will
never let this go any farther ; but I will tell
you, as it may serve to help you and Laura
too. I used to rage against my life. I used
to think what the world was doing, and how
much went on that I should have enjoyed
had I only been somewhere where I could
have shared in all the rush and hurry that
was so delightful. I have walked round and
round the vicarage garden, clenching my
hands and trying to bear the monotony, and
I have wandered up and down the lanes, and
about the cliffs, feeling as if I were going mad.
The long, terrible winter seemed to literally
crush me to the earth; then some merciful
break came in my life  it seemed anything
save merciful then. Brian, my eldest boy,
nearly died, and when he was well once more,
I learned how much I could do for others ;
and from my own sufferings and anguish

discovered how much I might be to those by
whom I was sm-rounded, and for whom
before I had never had a thought. I don't
suppose,' she added humorously, and putting
her hand caressingly on Liza's head; *I
don't suppose you are one little bit grateful
to me for coming here to you ; but I should
never have done that if Brian's illness had
not taught me to see in other children my
child, and to try and do for them what others
did for me in that terrible time

You don't like me,' replied Liza carelessly,
as she took Mrs. Buckworth's hand in
hers and looked at it critically ; * you don't
trust me either, nor will you let me have
Laura ; and yet, as I said before, I have tried
to behave so very well.'

Don't look at my poor worn hands,' said
Mrs. Buckworth. *Ah! Liza, contrast your
slim cool ones with my weather-beaten,
work stained paws, and think what yours

might do if they would ; and yet here you
are only thinking of getting away from, your
father's house and enjoying the world. Can
I like you, child ? Can I think you anything
but heartless ? Five days have I been
with you, and yet you have never shed a
tear ! '

I would not be a hypocrite, that is why
replied Liza with suit. ' You accuse me of
heartlessness  of not being like other girls ;
but you forget my bringing up, Mrs. Buck-worth.
Papa told me that the world was
utterly bad and selfish ; that religion and
fine feeling were matters appertaining to one's
digestion, and that faith was another word
for foolish credence. He pointed his
morals always from the daily press ; he had
chapter and verse for all his statements. He
was a pessimist, only caring for his dinners
and his wines, and a few things like that. If
ever I read of a fine action  a noble deed 

he could always supply some low motive for
such deeds  such actions. And if I wanted
to interest myself in the poor, or even in our
own servants and people, he used to tell me
such horrid stories of their ingratitude and
their eye-service, that I gave it all up. I am
not sorry he is dead, not one bit. He killed
every hope, every fine feeling I ever had,
and I could but look upon him as my gaoler
rather than as my father.'

There is another side to the picture,
darkly as you have painted it, Liza,' said
Mrs. Buckworth quietly ; ' you must remember
your father's life in the world had been a
very hard one ; he had been singularly unfortunate
in his relations with other people.
Until some time after he was married he
never knew your mother's love was given
elsewhere, and though he had married her
undoubtedly for her money, he would have
settled down to the quiet and easy country

life he loved, had not he discovered that
her whole heart was given elsewhere, and
that she had only married him when she
really believed her lover was faithless; it
was the shock of hearing from him again
that drove her mad

You are making all this up,' exclaimed
Liza, interrupting Mrs. Buckworth rudely.
Even if it were true, how should you hear
about it, I should like to know ? '

You easily may know,' replied Mrs.
Buckworth, ' as now there is no mystery
about it. When Sir Marmaduke came to the
Holt first, I used to see a great deal of both
him and you ; and in a moment of confidence
really to excuse to me some harshness of
which lie had been guilty  he told me the
whole story, and, besides that, mentioned tome
too how his own first love had been false
had thrown him over when he was poor to
marry a man whose failure  and a disgraceful

failure, too  gave her small chance of profiting
by her treachery  telling me that this would
have made him care for his wife if nothing
else would ; but her brain was never strong,
and the lover forced himself into her presence,
wickedly, cruelly, and reproached her
so terribly that she could not bear it at such
a time. Poor soul ! she has never been free
from fearful paroxysms of madness since.'

He need not have sent her away,' said
Liza in a low voice ; ' neither need he have
shut me up here all the best years of my
life

He did not send her away until he was
obliged,' replied the rector's wife quietly.
She nearly killed you and threatened to
murder him, and he shut you up here, Liza,
because he wanted you to know nothing of
the world, neither did he wish you to hear of
your mother  remember, he was a comparatively
young man when he died, and he

expected to live for years. His system of
education was horrible, certainly ; he had
never wanted any other guide than his own
sense, he said, and he hated religion, and I
could wish you had had a different bringing
up  still, you must own he had a little right
on his side too ? '

Why did he quarrel with you and the
rector ? ' asked Liza, after a few moments'
pause, during which she appeared to bethinking
deeply.

A faint blush suffused Mrs. Buckworth'&
cheek.

There was a misunderstanding with Mr.
Buckworth,' she answered, * and then he
closed his doors against the whole world.'

All ! I see,' replied Liza smiling, * the
rector was jealous.'

My dear, my dear ! don't imagine such a
thing for a moment,' exclaimed Mrs. Buck-worth,
hastily checking the girl. ' He dreaded

Sir Marmaduke's influence over me, because
he read books with me the rector thought
heretical, and there were other things too ;
however, all that is over and done with, and I
should never have told you all I have had I not
hoped to make you think of him more kindly
to try and draw your thoughts away from
your own wrongs to his sufferings ; and, were
I you, I should for your year of mourning
remain here, learning the people and trying
to benefit your tenants a little. Let me give
you some books to read ; burn those dreadful
*' Newgate Calendars " there, and, in fact, fit
yourself among us for the society of which
you know nothing, and where you are sure to
be imposed upon dreadfully.'

'You forget I have not a whole year to
waste in useless pretence at mourning,' replied
Liza. * I am twenty-two, the best part of
my life is rushing away, and I have never
once seen the world ; I cannot settle down

here without first of all trying my wings, Mrs.
Buckworth, before which I mean to go and
see my mother.'

'You cannot go about the world alone,'
replied Mrs. Buckworth quietly; 'that you
know so little of it will not excuse you in its
eyes for outraging Mrs. Grundy.'

The world has gone ahead since your
time,' answered Liza carelessly ; ' you forget
my money, my position. I assure you, once
my romantic story becomes known, I shall
be the rage. I am good-looking, fairly young,
and no fool ; and I am not one bit afraid
of Mrs. Grundy or Mrs. Anybody-else ; life
holds out both her hands to me now, Mrs.
Buckworth ; I am not going to turn my back
on her.'

But there is right and wrong to consider,
even if you do not care for the world,' persisted
Mrs. Buckworth ; ' you cannot live
alone, you must recollect the duties you have

to perform ; remember the poverty and misery
down by the harbour  the tumble-down
cottages where your tenants shiver through
the winter nights. You have a good heart,
Liza, you must do something for them
surely ? '

I don't care for anything or anyone now
except myself replied Liza; *I have been
defrauded of my youth, and I mean to repay
myself as quickly as I can ; that is one good
thing about my bringing-up, you see I have
not one qualm  not one religious scruple.
I can do just as I like, because I have no
sense of right and wrong  no dread of bogie
to keep me in the narrow path. After all, I
think papa's method was the best ; I should
be inclined to listen to you had he not taught
me how futile such ideas were. This life is
all we are sure of, Mrs. Buckworth ; it is uncertain
how long we may possess it; therefore,
I mean to make hay while the sun shines.'

Time will be your only teacher, time and
experience,' said Mrs. Buckwortli sadly; *you
will then discover for yourself where true
happiness is to be found. I shall say no more
on the subject, Liza; only remember this,
your duty lies here ; turn your back on that,
and you will never have a second chance given
you of really doing good in the world. You
may snatch at your pleasures but you will
find them dead-sea apples; better remain
among your own people, doing the 'work
that's nearest, though 'tis dull at whiles," as
Charles Kingsley says.'

*Did you ever hear the fable of the fox
who lost his tail in a trap and tried to
persuade all his brethren that tails were out
of fashion ? ' asked Liza impertinently. * I
do believe you are a good woman, and though
I detest you for doing it, I do think you
refuse me Laura because you honestly credit
me with the power of making her lose her

soul ; but you don't persuade me to stop here,
I can tell you ! Of course it would be
pleasant for you all if I did, and better for
the village ; but I am not going to, no, not for
one moment after tomorrow's ceremony; and
if you will not let Laura come with me, we
shall probably never meet any more. I shall
let the Holt, if any one can be persuaded to
take the place, and I trust I shall never see it
or hear the moan of the sea again; how I
have lived through the last few years at all, I
don't know,' and Liza threw herself down
in her chair and gazed gloomily into the
fire.

At that moment the little clock struck
eleven, and Mrs. Buckworth rose. 'It is very
late, better go to bed now,' she said, with
tears in her eyes, as she thought of the
undisciplined gil and the terrible lessons
she would have to learn. ' I will be up early
and remain with you during the funeral, you

may like to read the service '  and so saying,
she gathered up her belongings, and bidding
Liza good-night walked home to the
Rectory, pondering deeply over the talk with
Liza, and coming to the conclusion that
nothing should persuade her to allow a child
of hers ever to associate for one instant with
her again.

Liza spent the hour of her father's funeral
alone in her own room. She had refused to
see Mrs. Buckworth when she arrived, and as
the preparations began, had flown upstairs,
and locked the door against all intruders,
determined that neither herself nor her conduct
should be the subject of talk in the
village if she could in any way help it.
Moving the blind just a little to one side, she
watched the modest cortege wind its way down
the avenue, where only that day week Sir
Marmaduke had walked, a living man ; and a
bitter smile curled her lip as she thought

VOL. I. G

how death had conquered that iron will, and
how she, his prisoner, as she termed herself,
was employing the horn of his burial in
selecting what she should take, and what she
should leave, when she made the plunge into
the outside world, that seemed to beckon her
away. And although she came down and sat
through the reading of the will  listening to
the many precautions her father had taken
against the presumable rascality of any man
who might aspire to her hand, and to the
minor clause that made the property absolutely
her own to dispose of by will, should
she die unmarried ; much enjoying the discomfiture
of the ' hare,' as Mrs. Lukerr
persisted in calling Sir Charles, when his
name was not mentioned, except in connection
with the miserable atom of entailed
property  her thoughts were busily employed
in wondering how soon she could get rid of
them all, and be off somewhere, anywhere, she

cared not where, so long as it was away from
the Holt.

At last they had all gone, even old Mrs.
Standen, a withered, unhappy creature, who
had been shabbily genteel for more years
than she cared to recollect, and who
cherished an undying hatred to Liza, because
she neither responded to her advances to the
'dear young orphan,' nor accepted her invitation
to spend if only one night beneath
her lowly roof in Ball's Pond, Islington  that
refuge for vulgarity and the folks who have
seen better days. Yet when Liza sat down
to her first dinner quite alone, with Andrew
to wait, just as she had done for so many years
with her father as her sole companion, a
choking feeling came in her throat, and she
could hardly swallow the food for a moment,
as she mechanically raised her eyes, almost
expecting to see the familiar face and hear
the tone of the cynical, jibing voice, reading

VOL. I. G 2

out some especially unpleasing suggestive
morsel from one of the many newspapers in
which his soul delighted. And as a tear crept
unbidden down her cheek, the first real tear
of feeling or affection that she had shed, for
the moment she saw there could be another
side to the picture, and that life, after all,
might have a dark aspect for her, as well as
the utterly and brilliantly bright one that
had been presented to her mentally during
the last few days. Finishing her dinner, as if
impatient of any suggestion of the kind, she
rose quickly, and went into the drawing-room
; but she had scarcely settled herself in
her deep arm-chair by the fire, with Bradshaw
and sundry guide books, determining to
think of nothing but the future, when a ring
came at the front door bell, and before she
could wonder what the sound meant, Andrew
had shown in a veiled figure, and had
disappeared hurriedly  his disappearance

hastened doubtless by the fact that he wished
to see if Mrs. Pearson had really given him
a sovereign to show her in at once on Miss
Standen, or if the support he had found it
necessary to take to keep him over the
trying occasion ' of his master's funeral had
obscured his vision, as it had done more than
once before under similar circumstances.

At first Liza stared in a dazed manner,
thinking that Mrs. Standen had returned ; but
as the veil was raised and disclosed a countenance
she had never, to her knowledge,
seen before, wild ideas of lunatics and thieves
coursed through her brain, and she was
about to ring furiously at the bell, when the
lady stepped forward and, in a quiet tone of
voice, begged for a few moments' hearing.

I am aware that I am intruding,' she said
quietly ; ' but I heard you were leaving the
Holt at once, and it was necessary that I
should have an interview with you before you

went. I am Mrs. Pearson, the wife of the
doctor.'

Indeed said Liza carelessly, and not
asking her to take a seat, neither taking one
herself; 'has not your bill been paid? I
told my lawyer to see to it, for Dr. Pearson
seriously displeased me by the manner in
which he had held his tongue about Sir
Marmaduke's complaint, and I ordered him
out of the house in consequence. You had
better write to him, Mrs. Pearson, I leave all
matters of business to him.'

It is not about that at all that I am here,'
said Mrs. Pearson ; ' I am aware that you
were angry with my husband, but I do not
care for that in the very least, for you will
alter your opinion of him when I tell you all
I know. May I sit down. Miss Standen ? it is
a long walk from the village, and I am weak.'

Sit, if you like,' said Liza proudly ; ' but
then, in that case, I must beg you to excuse

me. You forget my father was only bmied
to-clay and I am in no mood, I can tell you,
to entertain strangers.'

'And yet you are planning all sorts of
pleasures,' exclaimed Mrs. Pearson, pointing
to the books on the table. ' I am sorry to
intrude on your grief, but necessity knows
no law, and it is necessary you should listen
to me. No ; you must not and shall not
leave me,' she added, as Liza attempted to
pass her and get to the door. ' I know how
your father died, and I mean you to pay me
heavily to keep your secret.'

Oh, you are mad ! ' answered Liza, starting
back as she seemed to realise that she was
alone with a lunatic quite mad. ' Of course
you know how papa died from your husband
and as to my secret, I haven't one in the
world. You had better go home, Mrs. Pearson,
much better ; your husband will begetting
anxious about you,'

He knows why I have come,' reeked Mrs.
Pearson. ' See, I am not mad ; my hand is
as steady as yours. Your father died of
poison, Miss Standen ; of prussic acid not
heart disease, and I have proofs of this.
I have them here,' and she touched the
breast of her gown lightly with her hand.

Liza now felt fully convinced that she had
to deal with a maniac, and concentrated all
her attention on getting near the bell, but
Mrs. Pearson saw her intention and frustrated
it.

Even if you did ring the bell, it would be
no use,' she said ; ' I have the key of the
door in my pocket and you can't get out. It
is my firm opinion that you, Lisette Standen,
deliberately poisoned your father, and unless
you pay me handsomely for silence, I shall
exhibit my proofs and tell my story to the
world.'

Casting her eye round the room, Liza saw

no prospect of escape, and thought perhaps
it might be as well to humour her. 'Indeed
she said lightly, *I am very much obliged
to you for such a piece of intelligence, but
I fear you will not get the world to share
your belief, unless your proofs are very strong
indeed ; may I ask what they are ? '

Mrs. Pearson looked at Liza for a moment.
She was much slighter than Mrs. Pearson,
and looked weak and fragile ; she thought she
would risk any chance of a sudden snatch,
and with the air of a melodramatic princess,
she produced the small bottle and medicine
glass, and held them up before her. Liza
advanced cautiously and looked at them :
But that is the stuff Dr. Pearson sent papa
always, and his own glass out of the medicine
chest,' she exclaimed in a puzzled tone of
voice.

Exactly so, but so heavily charged with
poison, that the smell is well-nigh strong

enough to kill one,' said Mrs. Pearson. Some
hand sent Sir Marmaduke to his death, and
that hand was yours. You are the only person
who would profit by his murder; you,
therefore, are the only creature who can be
guilty.'

Here Liza sank down into her chair and
literally laughed aloud. 'My dear good
woman,' she said in a few moments, * you
must really take me for a lunatic too. Even
supposing I put the poison in there  Where
is your proof ? Where did I buy the stuff ?
When did I do it ? Now, it strikes me that,
if I liked, I could make it unpleasant for you.
Dr. Pearson has given a false certificate.
Suspecting poison, he certifies to heart
disease, thinking to black-mail me after the
funeral; beside which, report declares that
the doctor is not always sober. Heavens !
I see it all now,' she added excitedly; 'Dr.
Pearson gave him poison by mistake; I

shall give orders at once to have the body
exhumed, and all this shall be told in court' 
and Liza, taking advantage of Mrs. Pearson's
surprise, seized the bottle and flung it straight
down on the open hearth, where it lay
shattered in a thousand pieces, while the
faint sickly smell of oil of almonds seemed to
pervade the atmosphere.

For a few moments the wretched woman
stood looking at Liza Standen, and then
sinking on the floor she burst into a torrent
of tears.

'You must feel rather like what-his -
name in the '' Arabian Nights," the man
who kicked over his basket of glass, I mean,'
said Liza cruelly, as she stood looking down
on Mrs. Pearson's quivering form. ' I have
not the least doubt that you and the dear
doctor have been building all sorts of
castles in the air, and that my supposed
sin was to be the foundation for the future.

You are a clumsy creature, Mrs. Pearson,
and will never make a good detective. Had
I been in your place I should have come
before the funeral, and I would have discovered
where the prussic acid was bought
and by whom ; then you might have emancipated
yourself from Bridgeporth and the
doctor from the fascinations of the "Black
Bear"; as it is, I fear me you will have
to remain here until you can find someone
foolish enough to buy the practice from
you. What a pity it is you were in such a
hurry to pounce on me, wasn't it ? '

Liza's words stung Mrs. Pearson into
quiescence, the tears stopped, and rising
to her feet she said : ' I believe you did it ;
nothing shall prevent me from believing you
did it.'

Believe what you like,' said Liza, yawning
and looking at the clock; 'as for me, I recollect
what drunken dispensers have done

before now, and if I hear a word about
this nonsense I shall have Sir Marmaduke's
body exhumed; as it is, I really think I
ought to do it ; I should, were I not so
anxious to get away, besides which, I don't
want to ruin you both; although you do
think me a parricide, Mrs. Pearson; you
see I can have mercy. I think it would be
awkward for you if this night's work came
out.'

Mrs. Pearson said nothing, and hung her
head, and as Liza held out her hand for the
drawing-room door key she put it into it
sullenly, and was about to turn away whenas
if struck by a sudden idea, Liza said :
By the way, are you so very anxious to
leave Bridgeporth ? '

Mrs. Pearson flushed, then she bowed an
assent.

I'll remember that too,' said Liza. * I
suppose you'd be grateful to me if I helped

you out of the place ? I may want a doctor's
help  I'll let you know when I have seen
my mother. Dr. Pearson might, perhaps, be
willing to look after her for me in London,
as I find I cannot have her with me. But
mind,' she added, holding up a warning
finger, ' I only do this, or rather should do
this, because I feel for you; you must be
quite as sick of Bridgeporth as even I amor
you could hardly have been so foolish
as to come to me on such an errand ; and
I have suffered so myself here, that I can feel
for you and your disappointment. I have
no doubt you were keeping at least a carriage
and pair mentally. It is so galling to lose all
this at one blow  you should have been a
little cleverer, Mrs. Pearson. However, I
see you are sorry, so I will say no more.
Good-night ! If I find I require help you
shall hear from me'  and so saying, and
seeing her to the door, Liza Standen nodded

a careless farewell, and then returned to her
own room and her guide book.

*I didn't think anything would come of
it said Dr. Pearson, as he met his wife on
the door-step, where she impatiently poured
out the story of her ill-success ; * the fact is,
Sir Marmaduke poisoned himself. I've just
been told by that old fool in the chemist's
shop at Bodmin, that Sir Marmaduke was
always buying poisons of him. Such a
gentleman, of course he could not refuse
him. So that mare's nest is done for. Now
it will be Bridgeporth to the end of our
natural lives, I suppose  no wonder a fellow
is driven to drink in a hole like this.' And
he banged the front door angrily, as he
locked it for the night.

She gave me a hint that you might be
wanted to look after the mother in town,'
said Mrs. Pearson. ' You may say and think
what you like, but she did it.' And as her

husband laughed and said something about
obstinacy and a woman, she shrugged her
shoulders and retired to bed, to brood over
her wrongs, and to form an elaborate scheme
of vengeance that this time should be successful,
though it must be confessed that
her ideas were of the very vaguest description,
and were soon utterly and entirely lost
in the land of dreams.

Good-bye TO Bridgeport.

Liza Standen was not able to leave home
quite as soon as she had hoped. The mere
business details of house-letting and investments
kept her stationary, and deprived of
Laura's company ; as she had been by Mrs.
Buckworth's decree ; she had to look out for
someone else to take the place of confidant
and friend, left vacant by Laura's unwilling
desertion of her. Mr. Buckworth had in vain
tried to induce his wife to allow Laura to
stay for at least six months with the heiress,
quoting texts innumerable to support his
comfortable theory, that any girl brought up

VOL. I. H

as Laura had been, must of necessity be able
to hold her own, and save Liza's soul, rather
than imperil her own. But Mrs. Buckworth
was inflexible in her determination. Neither
Laura's tears and prayers nor her husband's
comfortable precepts serving to move her an
inch from her determination, although she
could not help feeling for Laura, and
regretting that, as far as she herself was concerned,
Liza would not speak to her, and
turned her back on her contemptuously
whenever she met her in the narrow streets
of the little sea-side village. An advertisement,
naturally enough, brought Liza dozens
of answers from ladies of all ages and conditions;
but of these she only selected three as
worthy of consideration, and in her usual
slap-dash manner, after a very little correspondence,
and the sight of the three
photographs, she chose a Mrs. Yerney,
whose face and figure were sufficiently

pleasing without being strikingly attractive,
and whose widowed state presupposed a
certain amount of knowledge of the world
and of men; while the name of Varney
suggested decent belongings and good connections,
a suggestion more than confirmed
by the excellent testimonials forwarded for
Liza's inspection, and the nice paper and
pretty handwriting that had first of all
attracted her to the writer, and caused her to
select Mrs. Verney, as one of the three
favoured individuals from among the crowd
of folk who replied to the very tempting
advertisement Liza had caused to be inserted
in the Guardian and The Times.

A student of human nature could hardly
have helped being entertained, had he or she
read the letters from the rejected ladies y for
there were certainly replies from all sorts and
conditions of women, all of whom declared
they were dying to be either a mother or a

VOL. I. H 2

sister, according to age, to their dear young
friend. One even offered to leave a highly
intellectual post she was filling as nursery
governess to six riotous boys ; while another 
remarking pathetically that her lamp of life
was burning low and that she longed for the
repose of a congenial home wherein to die 
proposed to take an early train to Bridge -
north, with an eye, doubtless, to finishing her
career under the sheltering roof of the Holt ;
and so alarmed Liza by the determined
attitude she took m her letter, that Liza
telegraphed to her wildly to do nothing of
the sort, for she had engaged a companion,
whose intentions were to live and not die,
and that long before the telegram reached
her, she and Mrs. Verney would be en route
for London, where she meant to plunge
wildly into a round of theatres and concerts ;
which would require the services of someone
with a robust constitution, the lamp of which

was warranted not even to flicker. One good
soul did come down on approval, tramping
the long, weary miles between Bodmin and
Bridgeport, and presenting herself a draggled
specimen of inanity to Liza's astonished
eyes; and, much to her rage, she had to feed
her and entertain her for one night, as no one
could turn a dog from their doors in bridgeport
on an October evening, when the air was
full of mist, and the wind came roaring over
the sea; and next morning she had literally to
send her away, weeping profusely, and had to
refuse to listen to her eloquent pleadings of
poverty and distress ; hardening her heart
against her stoically ; for, as she rightly
observed, not even a Croesus could have done
anything for the crowd of women  all presumably
educated  all most certainly in need
of work, who presented themselves by letter
to her for her favourable consideration.
Contemplating the numerous candidates for

her situation, Liza could not help being thankful
to someone, anyone, chance, or good fortune
call it what you will  that had placed her
above such sordid ideas as where to get one's
dinner or how to clothe oneself ; and yet, as
she looked round her charming drawing-room,
and remembered the bright, beautiful
existence before her that was to compensate
for so much, she could not resist wondering
at the curious inequalities in life ; and being
more than ever convinced that there was no
one to whom she would have to account for
her doings and sayings, and that, therefore,
she was free as air to enjoy herself as much
as ever she could.

At last ! at last the day of departure was
finally fixed. In another week she and
Mrs. Verney would have left the Holt in the
hands of strangers, and would resort to 1,001,
Eaton Square, S.W., where the Honourable
Juliettete and the Honourable Hyacinth Farrar

were expecting their dear young friend to
sjDend a quiet winter with her companion,
before launching her on the troubled sea of
society. And as she sat in the drawing-room
listening for the wheels of the carriage that
had been sent to Bodmin to fetch Mrs. Verney,
Liza was pondering over her future and
resolutely determining to remain herself and
her own mistress whatever her surroundings
might be, and however orthodox and excellent
were the people among whom she might be
thrown. But her thoughts were soon brought
to a close, for, as the clock chimed seven, the
carriage was heard coming up the drive, and
Liza opened the door of the drawing-room
and came out into the hall in time to meet
her new companion, about whom she could
not help feeling curious, the while she compassionate
a stranger who must be eager to
please for fear of losing her portion of daily
bread. Still, as the tall, veiled figure came up

the steps and threw back the crape that covered
her face, Liza realized that she had to do
with no common, cringing companion, 'but
that a lady, equal to herself in  all save
money, was come to take up her place beneath
her roof, and holding out her hand, she
greeted her warmly, far more warmly than
she had intended to do when she rose from
her seat.

You must be very tired,' she said, as her
maid came forward and relieved Mrs. Yerney
of her heavy widow's cloak and bonnet. 'It is
a dreadful drive from Bodmin here, and I
was selfish to bring you such a terribly long
journey only for a week ; but I thought we
should become better acquainted were we
alone for awhile together, besides which, as I
explained in my letter, I think I have a visit
to pay that I could not make alone, and
I am literally dying to have some one to
talk to, this place is so empty ; if I remained

here much longer I should forget
how to speak.'

'I quite understand,' said Mrs. Yerney,
in a calm sweet voice, smoothing the bands
of her luxuriant dark hair with her hands and
looking at Liza with great blue eyes ; ' quite.
Now, if I may go upstairs to my room for a
few moments first, I shall be ready to talk to
you and hear you talk as much as you like,
for I am never tired and am extremely, vulgarly
strong, two excellent things, by the
way, when one has to earn one's bread ; but at
present I am one mass of dust and dirt, and
I suppose dinner will be ready directly ' ?
and hardly waiting for Liza permission, she
motioned to the maid to precede her, and
almost before Miss Standen had recovered
from her surprise, she was back again, in a
long soft black silk, with quantities of tulle
about her throat, gathered and held together
by a diamond pin, the size and glitter of which

caused a great deal of talk down stairs, to
say nothing of a considerable amount of surprise
to Liza herself, whose high black serge
and common frilling, carelessly adjusted by a
country girl's heavy hand, looked worse than
ever when contrasted with her companion's
perfect costume.

Now let us talk confidentially,' said Mrs.
Verney, when, diner over, she and Liza
were seated in the drawing-room. 'I see
you are no ordinary girl. Miss Standen,
and so I am going to break the ice at once.
Were you the usual motherless and fatherless
maiden, I should be the orthodox, submissive
companion ; but as I have discovered you are
not, I think it best to be quite frank with you
and tell you all I have found out already.
In the first place, you must have a maid.'

But I have one at present,' said Liza, laughing
despite herself at Mrs. Verney' s curious
assumption of the position of mentor ; ' an

excellent girl, character and all complete from
her last place.'

*Her last place,' exclaimed Mrs. Yerney,
impulsively; ' was that in a curate's kitchen,
or the parlour of some farmhouse? does she
know her Paris, or read the fashion books ?
No, of course not ; if that were the maid who
helped me, the sooner you have some one
else the better.'

But why ? ' persisted Liza, not quite sure
whether she ought not to resent Mrs.
Verney's impudence.

Why, because I want to be proud of your
success in the world, and to hear of your
conquests,' replied the companion brightly;
and neither will be my portion if you persist
in retaining Sarah, the name is enough. Oh
how I wish I had kept Audrey's address
when I had it, she would have been delighted
to be near me again, and her style would
have just suited you ; yet I wanted to forget

all my former life, and let her go with the
rest. Ah!' she added, as she saw Liza's eyes
travel from the brooch at her throat to sundry
flashing rings on her hand, ' you mean I
have not parted with quite all. Well, no;
these, and some few other things were saved
from the wreck; but they would have had
to go, had not I seen your advertisement
and answered it. I literally did not know
what to do; I could not teach; I should
murder any child I was shut up with for
twelve hours, I am sure of that; and I could
think of nothing. Then my eye caught your
little paragraph. Shall I ever forget the
tortures I endured before I received your
reply ? No, never ! I am now only too
anxious to please you, but at the same time
I am sure you will think better of me if
I tell you at once what to expect from
me.'

I thought it was to be I myself that

should tell you what I expected from you
said Liza with dignity.

So it would be were you, as I said before,
the orthodox British Miss,' answered Mrs.
Verney , nothing daunted by her manner ; ' but
you are not ; and so I turn the tables. You
tell me you are going to the Farrars for the
winter. Why did you not arrange to winter
abroad ? '

Oh, for a thousand reasons. First of all
I want to know my fellow-creatures, then I
want to see London thoroughly. I intend
to be near my mother,' said Liza; ' but I
must, above all, get acquainted with people.
Do you know, Mrs. Verney, that I am
twenty-two, and have never in all my life
spoken to a man, or, indeed, for the matter
of that, to a woman either; it is time I began,
I think.'

You must not go to the Farrars until you
have some clothes,' said Mrs. Verney critically.

Why not run over to Paris for a week first ?
I know all the best places to go to, and we
might pick up a maid there

No, my plans are made,' said Liza firmly;
my clothes are eccentric, but people sell
clothes in London, I presume.'

Well, yes, they do now,' said Mrs.
Verney, ' and you can soon be properly
supplied. May I ask if you are related to
the Farrars, Miss Standen ? '

I don't think I have any relations in the
world, except my mother, in Dr. Spencer's
asylum at Dreewood,' replied Liza;  and
Sir Charles Standen, he's horrid, horrid. Oh,
I quite forgot him, when I said I had never
spoken to a man  if you can call him one,
that is to say.'

I suppose he wants to marry you ? ' said
Mrs. Verney.

No, indeed he doesn't ; he's engaged to
some young person at Islington,' said Liza

lightly ; ' his mother wants him to throw her
over and make up to me, because of the
property, you know ; but I think she gave
up that notion before she left, for she said
she would pray for my conversion ; and
sundry other polite speeches of the kind,
signifying that I was hopeless, fell from her
lips. He's my cousin too, and with insanity
in the family one is bound to be doubly
careful. But why did you ask me if the
Farrars were relations ? '

Oh, because they are well known in
London, and I wondered how you had
become acquainted with them sufficiently to
be received under their roof,' answered Mrs.
Verney quietly. ' They are of the orthodox
most orthodox; poorer than Job, and quite as
patient ; and so afraid of appearing poor, that
they live in misery in Eaton Square, rather
than in comfort in some pretty country place,
where they would be the delight of a village ;

and how they have consented to take in
lodgers, I for one, can't imagine.'

We were introduced, with great mystery,
through the lawyer, who happened to be
brother to the rector's wife here,' said Liza ;
by the way, our introduction, of course, was
only by letter. I am supposed to be a
young friend of his, left alone in the world,
and the word money is never to pass my
lips. Mr. John Stansfield receives the cheque
paid quarterly in advance. Oh ! I can't tell
you half the arrangements that have been
made. I fancied they were eccentric ; but,
then, so am I. All I want is to be given a
start in life, then I can manage for myself.
I daresay I may marry, though at present I
most certainly don't feel inclined that way.'

I think you said you would not require
me to go out at night with you ? ' asked Mrs.
Yerney. ' You see, if I had to, it would
make so much difference in my expenses,

besides which, strong as I am, I never could
bear late hours

The Farrars are to do all that,' replied
Liza. ' I want a companion who is bound in
some measure to be my soujfre-cloiileur,
my whipping-boy; in fact, my confidant, if
the I'arrars are too much for me. I
want someone with whom I can laugh at
them, or gird at them ; who will rush about
from picture gallery to concert, and from
theatre to opera comique; who will, in short, bea
second self, and be as ready as I am to
enjoy life, and who will never be shocked, or
too prim to be amusing and amused ; and I
think,' added she, looking up at Mrs. Verney
critically, ' that most likely I have found this
long-suffering individual in you. I can't
imagine you a broken-hearted widow, and
you are young enough, I am sure, to be a very
jolly friend to me.*

I wonder how much you can bear with-vol.

I. I

out being shocked ? ' said Mrs. Verney,
returning Liza's gaze and then looking
down at her rings. ' I never could endure
mysteries, and I shall breathe more freely if
you really know who I am.'

 Are you a princess in disguise ? ' asked
Liza lightly. ' Now, Mrs. Verney, out with
it. I promise you not be shocked. I can't
imagine what could shock me after all I have
read,' and she pointed to the ' Newgate
Calendars,' as Mrs. Buckworth had christened
the big scrap books.

Mrs. Verney turned over the pages carelessly,
as if to obtain some idea of the
contents, and then she said, ' Have you the
account of '' Vivers versus Vivers and Sugars
I wonder ? '

Yes, in the fat green book on the right,'
said Liza; That's improving reading, if you
like.'

Just so,' said Mrs. Verney, reaching the

book and finding the page with the cutting
on,  if you have forgotten it, read it again, it
will save me a long and tedious story.'

Were you Yivers ? ' said Liza, a new
light breaking in upon her.

The Countess of Yivers, ain't please your
ladyship,' said Mrs. Verney flippantly, * and
now Mrs. Dugarron. There is no one so fit
as I to guide the feet of youth, for there is
not a quicksand or a shoal I don't know of 
no pit of darkness I have not fathomed to its
lowest depth. Now, Miss Standen, you know
the worst ; am I to pack up my boxes, and
make room for some other virtuous person ? '

Oh dear me, no,' said Liza, still looking at
the book before her ;  yet how could you be
so foolish, Mrs. Verney? once a countess
always a countess, I should say; and Mr.
Dugarron seems to have been only a curate.'

That's exactly it. No one would ever
believe me if I said I really meant to do well,'

VOL. I. . I 2

replied Mrs. Verney sadly; 'but I really did.
Lord Vivers was emphatically a beast ; yes, it
is very strong language, I know, but no other
word would suit him. I was married to him,
an innocent child at nineteen, and he was
thirty; there wasn't an evil thought in my
head on my wedding day, and I adored him.
All ! Miss Standen, I can't tell anyone what
I endured with him ; he scoffed at all I had
been taught to hold sacred, he flaunted his
sins before me, and laughed at my love.
Then I met Ernest Dugarron  he was all that
I had believed Bertram to be ; at last I fled
with him. Bertram was delighted  he wanted
an heir, I had no children  the divorce was
easily obtained, and then we were married.
I was with his married sister until the ceremony
could be performed, but the world sneered
and would not believe this  they hunted us
down  ' ' so shocking, a clergyman, you know ";
said the same people who received Lord Vivers

with open arms, united to torture us, until
they killed Ernest and nearly drove me mad.
I am just six-and-twenty now, and have
ended my life. It seems a little hard on me,
does it not ? yet now I daresay you'll throw me
over  but I couldn't help telling you, somehow.'


 Throw you over! not I,' said Liza affectionately,
pressing the hand Mrs. Yerney held
out to her; not I. I can only wonder at your
calmness, now I know what you have gone
through.'

I shall do you no harm in society either,'
said Mrs. Verney, after a moment's pause.
Society soon forgets even its chosen friends ;
the divorce story is four years old ; Lord
Vivers is the happy father of twi boys, and I
shall not mix in his set ; the Farrars would
die rather than meet him, I am sure of that
-I think you may keep me. Miss Standen.'

I cannot imagine how you can smile even,

after living through such a tragedy,' said
Liza, looking from the book to Mrs. Verney,
and from Mrs. Yerney to the book. ' I should
have thought you must have loved Mr. Du-carron,
anyhow.'

All love, all feeling has been battered out
of me,' answered Mrs. Verney ; ' and beside
that, I never think for a moment of all I have
gone through; I  I wonder which is I myself,'
she added dreamily. ' I seem to have been
a dozen different people since I stood at the
altar with Lord Vivers; and yet I am the
same creature as regards flesh and blood, I
suppose. Oh! how much I respected pity !
how much I meant to do! how I looked
up to my hero  my husband ! and yet, in less
than two years, I stood alone on the brink of
a precipice, the depth and darkness of which
were not half as appalling to me as the
degradation and misery my adored lover
had caused me. The worst thing that one

endures in life, I think, is this disillusionment.
I would rather die this moment than believe
in anyone's perfection again. We are very
like kittens. Miss Standen; we are born blind,
and only open our eyes to be astonished at
the wickedness around us when too late;
we'd better far be drowned in our youth,
before we realize what men are and what the
world is

'You are as bad as Sir Marmaduke,' said
Liza ; ' you are talking exactly like him.
He seemed sorry for nothing, and cared for
nothing except his dinner ; yet he had a
cause, his love was never returned ; now you,
at least, had two real lovers.'

The first need not be counted,' replied
Mrs. Verney, 'and as for the second, my poor
Ernest never really got over the divorce case.
He never respected me for one moment after
I ran away with him. Like a man, he did not
appreciate a gift that seemed all the world

to him before he possessed it. There's one
thing certain in life, Miss Standen  it never
for one moment pays to do wrong; that is
to say, to do anything that sins against the
world's particular fads and fancies. I should
have been rich and honoured if I had clung
to Bertram and endured his wickedness ;
but once I had chosen Ernest, and honestly
tried to do my duty as the wife of a clergyman,
the hounds were let loose, and he was
not able to bear it, and died leaving me
almost penniless. My father shut his door
in my face  he could not have his other
daughters contaminated by me; and here I
am, unattached, unfriended, well up in the
ways of society, and ready to be very useful
to you, if only you will let me.'

'We shall be a curious couple,' said Liza
smiling ; ' it is a ]city Mrs. Buckworth could
not have heard you, she would then, perhaps,
have thought I was not the only person in

the world who was a Httle out of the ordinary
run of human begs. I beg to envy those
colourless, easy-going religious folk. It seems
to me they are, after all, the only people who
really enjoy life.'

You will enjoy life well enough, for you
cannot expect too much from it,' said Mrs.
Yerney easily; 'it's the blind kittens that
suffer, not those whose eyes are open  and
yours are, I am sure of that. Now all we
have to do is to see we get the mostout
of it for our money, or, rather, for your
money. When do we leave the Holt, Miss
Standen ? Is 'it worth my while to unpack ?'

We go on this day week, and spend one
night at Preston ; that is the station for
Dreewood, you know. Dr. Spencer kindly
offered to put us up for the night, but I
really could not have slept under the same
roof with a lot of lunatics; they are about
the only things I am really and truly afraid

of replied Liza, closing the large book and
putting it back on the table.

And yet I think you said you had some
idea of taking your mother away from
Dree wood ? ' asked Mrs. Verney.

Only if I find she is, as I suspect, sane,'
replied Liza, yawning a little. ' Come, Mrs.
Yerney, let us go to bed; we shall have a
whole week before us in which to talk matters
over ; now it is late, and you must be tired
too. Why Yerney, by-the-way ? ' added she,
as she took up her candlestick ; ' why not
Dugarron ? '

Because Yerney is my second name, and
not quite as well known as Dugarron,' replied
Mrs. Yerney quietly. ' The name is an
uncommon one, you see, and might be
remembered. Now Yerney is a really good
name, and it always amuses me so when
people say to me  " Not one of the Jerseys of
Gloucestershire, I suppose ? " for it is pure

joy to me to answer  " Yes, I am, my mother
was a Miss Verney." You see, no one can
believe that a woman who has to earn her
bread can be of respectable parentage; and
then I go on to add, that my husband was a
distant cousin, and also a Verney, which so
astonishes them, that one or two ladies I
interviewed before I heard from you almost
fainted ; in fact, had I not absolutely refused
to teach children, I could have had two or
three situations ; but I can't bear children,
and the one thing I am grateful to Providence
for is, that I never had any of my own;
though, perhaps, if I had, Bertram would
have been different to what he was. However,
it is no use repining, let us go to bed ;
sleep, at all events, is true happiness  one is
warm, comfortable, and forgets one is alive 
all excellent things in their way.'

Unless you dream,' said Liza, as she
walked upstairs, and stood at her door for a

moment, before finally bidding her companion
good-night ; ' or lie dozing half the
night, neither one thing nor another. Ghosts
come then, Mrs. Verney, and I should say you
must have your share.'

I never encourage such unpleasant
visitors,' replied her companion smiling;
neither must you ; that way madness lies.
Good-night, Miss Standen ; if ghosts trouble
you, come in to me. I promise you that
between us they shall vanish for evermore in
future. I am longing for daylight, to see
what country we are surrounded by. It is
always so amusing to speculate on the dark
expanse that lies around us when we get to a
fresh place at night, which suggests  but
there, I will stop talking, or else the night
will never end,' and once more bidding Liza
good-night, Mrs. Verney retired to her room,
where, despite her boast that she and regret
had nothing in common, she lay until daybreak,

battling with a thousand fears, hopes,
and desires, when she fell into a heavy sleep,
only waking when her room was flooded by
the full light of an October mid-day.

*As the days went by, Liza and Mrs
Verney became almost inseparable, for Liza
had never before in all her life had a real
friend. Laura Buckworth was too meek, too
submissive, too anxious to please, to be really
anything more than someone to speak to,,
which, of course, was a consideration in Liza's
loneliness ; but had not a spice of romance
been given to the acquaintanceship by the
fact that no one knew of it, and that it
went on in direct disobedience to Sir Mar-mature's
strictest orders, it is deed doubtful
if it would have survived even as long as
it did.

Now it was all over, and Liza Standen had
not one regret for its demise.

Laura had been often shocked at the low

estimate of human nature possessed by her
dear friend. She had at times timidly spoken
of matters appertaining to religion, she had
even mildly remonstrated at one or two of
Liza's most outrageous sentiments ; but the
while she did so, she evinced so much despair
should Liza be vexed, and retreated so
quickly from her standpoint should her
friend turn round on her, and, in emphatic
language, dub her a fool; that while she bored
Liza by her platitudes, she yet caused herself
to be heartily despised as well, by the mean
manner in which she deserted her colours
the moment she saw they were obnoxious to
her companion and friend.

Mrs. Buckworth's deliberate refusal to
allow Laura to obtain temporal advantages at
the risk of losing her soul for ever, had
aroused for a while doubts in Liza's breast lest,
after all, the entire world of human beings
should be as reckless, time-serving, and

grasping as she had been taught it was. It was
so curious that any woman should refuse her
daughter a chance of ' bettering herself as the
servants say, because morals and religion were
not thrown into the bargain, that Liza had
began to think that there might, perchance, be
two sides to the question, and that some good
creatures did exist who really acted from
principle and not altogether from motives of
gain. Yet when she became acquainted with
Mrs. Yerney, and recognised how much livelier
and pleasant her life would be now she
had someone near her who * knew all the
ropes,' and could lead her triumphantly down
the primrose path of pleasure, she forgot all
her ideas on the subject of Mrs. Buckworth's
virtues, and could only be thankful that she
was not leaving home hampered by a girl,
who knew no more of the world than she herself
did, and who would have come possessed
of a conscience, an invincible attachment to

the English church as by law established, and
certain old-fashioned notions of heaven and
hell, that, of course, could soon have been
eradicated, but that would have been fearfully
troublesome as long as they lasted.

Standing in her room, and looking at herself
in the glass for the last time, in which she
had seen her face reflected ever since she
could remember, Liza Standen could not help
congratulating herself at the prospect before
her. She could recollect days when she had
glanced at her reflection and, with tears in
her eyes, wondered if she, like the violet,
was for ever to blush unseen by all save her
father and the old servants. She thought of
how, as days went by and she had drifted
along from eighteen to her present age of two-and-twenty,
she had gazed anxiously, fearing
to see some traces of the passage of time, and
how she had grudged every hour that kept
her down in Cornwall while her youth was

fleeting past; and she remembered, too,
thoughts that had brought a shade of diabolical
passion across her countenance, which
almost frightened her with its wickedness
when she had caught sight of it in the glass
before her.

Her life had been hard, and dreary, and
dreadful ; now it was all over, and she was
leaving her home for ever without one single
regret. Life owed her long arrears of pleasure;
she would demand them; she would
take all she wanted ; neither conscience 
stifled in its birth  nor problematic religion 
studied only to be scoffed at  hampered her,
and, as she turned away, taking with her on
her journey the remembrance of her beautiful
face looking out at her from the crape bonnet
that seemed to act only as a foil to her
health and loveliness, she repeated again to
herself that she had not one single arriere-
spenser, not one regret that should hinder her

VOL. I. K

from draining the cup of pleasure that was
now within her grasp.

No ; not one ! although her glance fell on
the grave where Sir Marmaduke lay in sure
and certain hope of a blessed resurrection,
and her last sight of Bridgeporth included
Laura's white tear-stained face pressed
against the rectory window, as the Holt carriage
drove by on its journey towards
Bodmin.

LADY Stand AT HOME.

For the first time in her life, Liza was
conscious of her nerves when she drove upto
the door of Dreewood, and recognised that
behind that grim and sombre looking portal
lived the woman to whom she owed her own
being, yet of whose existence, until the other
day, she had been profoundly ignorant.

Even Mrs. Yerney, who was not given to
sentiment as a rule, could not help feeling
sorry for the girl as she noticed her pale face,
and heard her laugh nervously, and endeavour
to chatter in her usual manner ; but she was
wise enough to hold her tongue, the while

VOL. I. K 2

she watched carefully, lest at the last moment
she should break down entirely, and have
to confess herself beaten at last.

The whole journey from Bodmin to Preston
had m itself been a revelation to Liza. She
had eagerly noted the manner and appearance
of her fellow-travellers, and had listened to
the commonplace talk with amusement and
contempt; not recognising that commonplaceness
was, after all, all one could expect
from casual acquaintances ; and while holding
her tongue herself, she resolved that it
would not be difficult for her to astonish
a world that seemed made up of people
who were indeed ordinary, and none of
whom, evidently, possessed any story at
all.

Still, Liza would not have been sorry
to be as uninteresting as the most commonplace
person she had ever met, when she
found herself following the doctor's neat,

sober man-servant along the warmed and
carpeted passages of the asylum, the very
atmosphere of which was suggestive of
horrors, and appeared charged with mystery
and despair. For she could not resist
shrinking from the ordeal before her, and
wishing most profoundly that she had
nothing in common with the weird and
fantastic creatures she caught sight of, as
she hurriedly followed the butler on his
way to the doctor's drawing-room ; for
Dr. Spencer allowed his patients far more
liberty than did most of his confreres and
all safe cases were treated much as people
are treated at a hydropathic establishment,
or ordinary superior boarding-house.

The drawing-room itself was at the end
of the house, and was a great room, with
wide windows opening to the lawn, and
looking over a beautifully kept garden and
shrubbery, gay with a thousand autumnal

tints and flowers; and as Liza wandered
to the window and looked out, she sighed
deeply, recognising that for more than
twenty years her mother's eyes had looked
on no other scene than the one before her.

As she stood gazing out, and watching
fearfully one or two figures wandering
aimlessly about the garden, the door opened
and Dr. Spencer came quickly into the
room. He was a tall, agile man of about
fifty-five or so, with wonderfully piercing
eyes and cool large hands, into which he
took Liza's, the while he looked at her
with an acute semi-professional gaze that
embarrassed Liza curiously. She averted
her eyes, and after replying to his conventional
inquiries, introduced Mrs. Yerney,
and then plunged headlong into the object
of her visit, which, of course, had also
been explained to the doctor by letters which
had passed between them, and which Dr.

Spencer produced from his breast pocket
and glanced at hastily, as if to confirm
Liza's statements from her own correspondence,
thereby adding much to her confusion
and nervousness.

At last Liza could stand it no longer.
*I wish you'd burn those things,' she said ;
 I can't think why, but I have such a dislike
to seeing letters again that I have once
written and sent away; and while you keep
looking at them, Dr. Spencer, I don't seem
able to take my eyes off them; you know,
too, what I want  can I see my mother ?
Then we can talk over what is best to be
done for her.'

You shall see her certainly, but not fora
few minutes,' replied the doctor, placing
Liza in a chair near the window, and once
more regarding her fixedly. * Miss Standen,
believe me, we are doing our very best for
your mother, and were I in your place, I

should not insist on seeing her. I remember
in your letters you tell me you never heard
of her existence until your father's death.
Believe me, it would be far better were
you not to see her at all. She will not
know anything of your visit, and unless
you are accustomed to hearing a certain
amount of bad language, I should really
advise you not to go near her; be content
with a look through the glass of her door.
I give you my word she is as happy here
as ever she can be in this world.'

*No one could be happy here,' said Liza
in a low voice, and gazing apprehensively
over her shoulder. 'I do not, of course,
mean to be rude to you. Dr. Spencer, but I
feel as if any moment something disagreeable
must happen, and that someone dreadful will
jump out at me and murder me. I hope you
won't think me a fit inmate for your house,'
she added, laughing nervously ; ' but I want

to get away from it as quickly as I can.
Still, I must see my mother first, and as
to bad language, I don't think I shall mind
that, if she uses it; I shall not think it is
my mother, but some other creature that
has possessed itself of her form  do you
believe in demoniac possession, I wonder.
Dr. Spencer ? '

I can't tell what I do or what I do not
believe on the subject of lunacy,' replied
Dr. Spencer smiling. 'It is a ide field,
and one you and I could hardly travel over
now, more especially as you wish to get
away from Dreewood as soon as you can.
Still, I wish you would not persist in seeing
Lady Standen. To tell you the truth, she is
so like you ; of course without the calm expression
of a sane woman ; that I fear you will
receive a shock. It will be like seeing your
face in a bad glass  distorted, wretched, but
yet the same countenance, for she still looks

singularly young  she must have been a
lovely girl.'

Are you quite certain she is mad ? ' asked
Liza, in a cold constrained voice. ' Dr.
Spencer, there is something about you that
compels me to speak the truth, and we need
not mind Mrs. Verney, she knows all I know
on the subject. Listen ! my father was nota
good man ; he had curious notions ; he
brought me up in a manner unlike any other
father ever educated his daughter; he was
selfish  oh, I know he has not been dead
long,' she added, as she noticed Dr. Spencer's
keen eyes fall on her black dress, ' and that
is why, perhaps, I feel as strongly as I do
on the subject ; but I have a fancy    '

That Sir Marmaduke incarcerated his wife
here with me because he was tired of her,'
interrupted Dr. Spencer quietly. ,  All ! you
need not blush and turn away, Miss Standen ;
any one who has ever had an insane relation

or friend has always had a whim that we
doctors are like the spider who Ives on the
flies he entices into his den, for the purpose
of sucking their ife-blood. They forget we
have any professional pride in curing our
patients ; they can never remember that we
could have others to fill the places left
vacant by those discharged cured. We are
doctors first, Miss Standen, and lunatic
asylum keepers second. No, don't think I
am offended,' he added, as Liza began a
hasty apology ; ' I am not one bit, for I am
too accustomed to such suspicions to take
any heed of them. I only really and truly
was thinking of you, when I advised you
not to see your mother. Your curious,
nervous dislike to my referring to your
letters in your presence, and the way you
are affected by the knowledge that this room
is not an ordinary drawing-room, shows me
that you are not quite as strong-minded a

young lady as you believe yourself to be.
Now, Mrs. Verney there is quite different.
She is as cool and collected as if she were
in the Queen's drawing-room at Buckingham
Palace.'

Father more so, if possible,' said Mrs. Verney
brightly. ' I think I should be far more
afraid of the Queen than any amount of
possible lunatics here, at all events; but
then, I am older than Miss Standen, and
she, too, has hardly overcome the shock she
sustained in her father's sudden death; still,
Dr. Spencer, I think you would be wise to let
her see Lady Standen. Liza has an idea fixed
anent her mother's sanity that nothing save
actual sight will remove. Faith even in a
doctor has not been a part of Miss Standen's
education.'

*In that case I will say no more,' replied
Dr. Spencer, touching the knob of the electric
bell at his side. ' Send Mr. Knight

here,' he said, as the butler appeared instantly
at the door ; then he added : ' my assistant
will take you to her. She has developed
a profound hatred to me, I am sorry to say,
and though, of course, I watch her and attend
to her just the same, I do not want to give
Miss Standen a worse impression than I
need ; only do let me beg of you not to insist
on speaking to her, unless Mr. Knight
really advises it.'

At that moment Mr. Knightonon entered the
room, and having been introduced to both
ladies, proceeded to add his persuasions to
his chiefs ; but, of course, the more he
talked, the more certain Liza became that
there was some reason over and above that
which had been given to her ; and adhering
still to her belief that her mother was a
deeply injured woman, she declared that she
was strong enough both in mind and body to
sustain any amount of shocks. And so at last

Dr. Spencer gave way, and motioned to
Robert Knightonon to get the matter over
as quickly as possible, remarking that tea
and Mrs. Spencer would be waiting for them
as soon as they had completed then* unpleasant
task.

You had better go by the garden,' said
the doctor, opening the window, ' then IVIiss
Standen will not expect anyone to jump out
at her ; for if you meet anyone there you will
be sure they are quite harmless,' and so saying,
he threw back the sash, and Mr. Knightonon,
Liza, and Mrs. Yerney went out into the chill
October air, that was already beginning to
feel like winter, and suggested frosts and the
last days of the dying year.

I shall be glad when the year is gone,'
said Liza, in reply to some trite remark of
Mr. Knightonon's ; ' it has been such a horrid
one, although it is the last of my captivity in
Cornwall; and, ridiculous as such a feeling is,

I cannot help believing that a new year is
clean and white and regardless, and begins a
fresh chapter of our existence, a feeling, by
the way, these poor souls can never enjoy.'

Oh ! yes, indeed they do,' replied Mr,
Knightonon ; ' they are not always in a state of
raving madness or mental obscurity, and few
of them are idiotic ; they watch the passing
of the seasons, and make elaborate plans for
celebrating Christmas and New Year at home.
I should not be half so sorry for them as I
am if they were always insane ; they would
never suffer at all if they were, any more
than we suffer when we chase shadows in our
dreams at night. Some of the people we
have here  nay, most  are only mad on one
or two points, and if they could go about
labelled "Don't speak to me of so-and-so,"
might be allowed to be free ; but we can't do
that, you know, and the consequence is they
are sent to us.'

I don't see why they need be, even then,'
said Mrs. Verney in her bright manner. ' I
have one or two subjects I don't like to bespoken
to on  my age, for example, and the
size of my hands and feet. Still yon would
not shut me up if I can't be civil to people
who intimate that I have been younger, and
that they have known more fairy-like
members than I possess; and yet I own to
feeling murderous on such occasions.'

You know you are safe,' said Mr. Knightonon,
looking admiringly at the widow's tiny hands,
that, encased in exquisitely fitting gloves,
were held out for his inspection. 'No one
is likely to tease you about those subjects, at
any rate. Neither would you do anything
but feel murderous, as you say, if you could
find anyone to talk such nonsense. Now you
see that fellow there ; who would say he was
cracked ? As yet he has no topic to avoid
save money, and do we mention that, he is

violent at once. Shall I illustrate what I
mean ? ' and Mr. Knightonon took a step forward,
as if to greet a singularly handsome
young man, who came towards them with a
tastefully arranged group of flowers in his
hand.

No ! for heaven's sake ! ' said Liza, placing
a detaining hand on Mr. Knightonon's sleeve ;
I should be terribly frightened. See, poor
fellow ! he wants Mrs. Yerney to take the
flowers,' and she pointed to the gentleman,
who was presenting the flowers to Mrs.
Verney, and speaking about them in the
most ordinary tone of voice.

Oh, Egerton,' said Mr. Knightonon, * you
are just the very fellow I wanted to see.
Have you met Lady Standen out to-day ?
This is her daughter, and we are anxious to
find her if we can.'

No ; her woman told me she had a cold,'
replied Mr. Egerton quietly enough. * Your

VOL. I.

mother is the image of you, or rather, I
should say, you are the image of your
mother, Miss Standen,' he added, raising
his hat and bowing in a profound manner,
and we called her the belle of Dreewood,
too. We are fastidious here,' he added.
Well, I won't detain you ; it is dreadfully
chilly for October, and if you wish to see her
ladyship, you had better be quick ; when she
has a cold, she always goes to bed terribly
early,' and so saying, Mr. Egerton walked off
with his hands in his pockets, whistling a
merry tune, as if he were some light-hearted
schoolboy going home after his lessons were
done.

And yet sometimes he wants to kill us all
to save the expense of keeping us alive,' said
Mr. Knightonon. "' His manners are brusque,
but we get out of the way here of requiring
introductions or taking formal leave of people
we are sure of meeting fifty times a day;

otherwise no one could tell he was mad.
Sometimes he sits for hours counting brass
buttons and talking of millions, then we
know a bad fit is coming, and we prepare for
squalls; and then again he is charming  a
delightful companion, and often helps me
with the patients. He can manage Lady
Standen when no one else can, because he
resembles someone she thinks she loved
years and years ago.'

*We seem a long time getting to her,' said
Liza, impatiently putting her hand to her
forehead as if it ached. ' I want to end my
suspense, Mr. Knightonon. I do not think I
can bear much more.'

*We are close there,' said Mr. Knightonon.
'Come, Miss Standen, be wise,' he added,
pausing on the threshold of a green-baize
door; 'let us go back to the doctor. You
can't do any good by seeing her.'

My mind is made up,' replied Liza firmly ;

VOL. I.

l2

no power on earth will move me Mr.
Knightonon shrugged his shoulders, and
touched the electric bell at the door.

"On your own head be it he said. 'I
will wait for you here.'

Are you not coming ? ' asked Liza, turning
a little white, and looking at Mrs.
Verney apprehensively.

Mrs. Morgan, the matron, will be there,'
replied Mr. Knightonon. I could do no good,
and she will show you all that is necessary.
Here is Mrs. Morgan. Oh, Mrs. Morgan,'
he added, ' this is Miss Standen. The doctor
has told you, I suppose, she wishes to see her
mother ? '

Mrs. Morgan bowed an assent, and stood
waiting for the two ladies to precede her ;
and as Liza looked at the stern-faced woman,
with her plain dress and neat apron and white
sister's cap, she could not refrain exchanging a
glance with her companion, that being interpreted

by the matron, brought a smile on her
hips, and caused her to say lightly :

Oh, I assure you, I am not as bad as I
look. Miss Standen ; you see we can't study
the becoming in costume here. I think my
ladies would be very angry if I presumed to
dress as you do, for example.'

Liza laughed. ' How keen all you people
are,' she said; 'I shall be afraid to think
even, until I get away from Dree wood, lest
you should have some mysterious power of
reading one's thoughts. Is my mother as
ill as they say, Mrs. Morgan  I do wish I
knew what was the truth.'

The truth is, that you have no business
to be here ; and I can't think how it is your
relations and friends allowed you to come,'
said Mrs. Morgan brusquely.

 Probably because I have neither the one
nor the other,' replied Liza ; ' I am an orphan
and friendless ; at least, as much of an orphan

as I can be with my mother alive. Well,
that speech of yoms tells me you agree with
the doctors ; therefore, please let me see my
mother at once And Liza drew herself upto
her full height, and began to walk with a
stately step down the passage, which was
exactly similar to the one leading to the
doctor's rooms. Mrs. Morgan looked from
her to Mrs. Yerney, and back again ; then
shrugging her shoulders, she went forward
and showed Miss Standen the way. At last
she stopped before another baize door, the
upper half of which was glazed and curtained.
Once more,' she said, ' will you be advised,
or will you act upon your own responsibility ? '
I have said,' replied Liza haughtily ;
please do not let me waste any more
time. Ah ! ' she added, with a long drawn
sigh, as the matron drew aside the curtain,
and allowed Liza to look into the room;
then that is my mother ? ' And holding

away the curtain, she stood looking into the
room as if she were gazing on a picture.

The room itself was charmingly and elegantly
furnished, and well supplied with hooks,
pictures, and plants  it might have been an
ordinary boudoir in some good house, for
there was nothing to show to outsiders that
this was a room in a lunatic asylum. The
floor was covered with beautiful Persian rugs,
a parrot hung in a cage in one of the warmest
corners, and a lovely fluffy Chinchilla
coloured cat was curled up on the lap of the
lady who lay back on the purple-covered
lounge-chair, shading her face from the rays
of the fire with a large peacock feather fan,
and looking so sadly at a photograph or
picture she held in her hand, that Liza,
unaccustomed as she was to shedding tears,
could not prevent them from forming in
her eyes, and falling slowly down her cheeks.
Presently Lady Standen looked up as if she

were praying; then Liza saw the likeness
to herself  older, worn, middle-aged, of
o.Qurse, as her mother undoubtedly was, she
yet was so like her child that Liza shuddered,
feeling she had seen what she herself would
be when youth had gone, and she had nothing
left but the dregs in the cup of pleasure she
held untasted in her hand ; and feeling she
could bear little more, she motioned to
the matron to open the door, and followed
her into the warm, scented atmosphere,
the curiously perfumed odour of which she
never forgot to her dying day.

At first Lady Standen took no notice
whatever of her visitors. Liza had drawn her
veil over her face, and naturally Mrs. Yerney
had one on too, and as the matron came upto
her, stroked the cat, made up the fire, and
moved one or two books, Lady Standen
simply turned her head away pettishly, and
neither spoke nor moved until Mrs. Morgan

pointedly mentioned that two ladies had
asked to be allowed to call on her, suggesting
that tea should be offered them, or some
notice taken of them. ' They have come a
long way,' she said, 'to see you, don't you
think you might ask them how they are ? '

You will persist in this farce, Morgan,'
replied the patient, glancing at Mrs. Yerney
and her daughter. ' You know, as well as I do,
where I am, and what my powers are. How
can I entertain ladies in a lunatic asylum,
even if I wanted to ? But I know what you
ladies are  people who ought to be here  not
unfortunate wretches like myself, who are
incarcerated by a revengeful and wicked
husband. Could I help being so beautiful
that all who saw me loved me ? Surely I
did not deserve this fate ! ' and she burst
into tears and sobbed frantically.

Liza was on the point of rushing forward,
and declaring that she would at once rescue-her

mother, when Mrs. Morgan's warning
finger held up, restrained her for a moment.

These ladies are not mad,' she said gently ;

I know your dislike to the patients, and
you are aware I never bring them to you
now.'

'Oh! they all say they are not mad, that
is one of the forms of the disease,' replied
Lady Standen contemptuously ; ' however, I
will try them once more; only, I warn you,
Morgan, if they smash the tea-cups and
scream like they did before, nothing shall
prevent me from turning them into cats or
parrots. I should like a variety,' she added
plaintively; 'it's always cats or parrots; a dog
now, or even a kitten, would be a relief; still
it is something to have the power I have over
my fellow-creatures  only death is stronger
than I  and death has taken Sir Marmaduke
at last. I wonder where they buried the
wretched old sinner. Where's my work?

Give me my work ! Then let these ladies
approach, though I must say it's a bore to
have to talk to them, when I wanted peace
and quiet'  and as Liza and Mrs. Verney
came near she motioned them to chairs, and
began talking in the most ordinary manner
possible about the weather, the time of year
and the emptiness of town.

At last she said : ' I daresay you came
here to see me out of curiosity ? Well !
what report shall you make  lunatic asylums
are attracting a great deal of attention, I see
from the papers, and I expect soon to be
released. If you come from any of the
newspaper offices, you might mention my
case; it is a typical one great beauty, jealous
husband, old lover  you can fill in the
details, the stronger the better; and if my
name were printed, I daresay there are some
living who will remember the lovely Miriam
Atherton  Standen it is now. Ah ! those

were times, those were times ! I wish you
would take off your veils, ladies,' she added
irritably; 'it's like being at a masked ball,
and I don't suppose you are either of you so
beautiful that you are afraid to be seen without
them for fear of the men ; here, at all
events, there is only one man worth captivating,
and I have done that ; so off with the
veils, then we can have tea.'

Liza looked apprehensively at Mrs. Morgan,
in whose discretion she had begun to believe,
now she saw that there could be no doubt as
to her mother's insanity ; so when the matron
signed to her to do as Lady Standen desired,
she took off her crape veil and turned her
head aside, trusting that Mrs. Yerney's face
might attract attention, and that, after all,
her mother might be too mad to see the
terrible likeness that appeared to Liza something
phenomenal, and to increase every moment,
until looking at her mother was, as the

doctor had remarked, like seeing herself in a
glass that was warped and distorted. But
she had no sooner removed the veil, than her
mother rose to her feet with a loud cry, and
putting out her hands, came towards her
trembling. Liza rose too, and began to
move away; as she did so. Lady Standen
made a sudden dart towards her, and seized
her by the arm.

'No,' she exclaimed ; ' you do not escape
me again. How I have longed for this day 
yearned for it, hoped for it; Morgan, don't
you see, don't you understand  this is my
lost youth, this my old self ? Are you not
glad to see her again ? and yet they told me
we had parted for ever,' and leaning gently
forward, she kissed Liza between the eyes.

Mrs. Morgan and Mrs. Yerney watched
the poor woman carefully, and Liza, feeling
doubtless that there were three to one,
allowed her mother to continue holding her

hands and babbling to her. In some mysterious
manner she believed that she had in
her presence herself as she had been years
ago, and as she gradually drew Liza to the
fire and sank down on the lounge with her
daughter beside her, she continued talking,
begging her, now she was her own again, to
profit by the experience she had bought so
dearly, and, above all, to avoid Sir Armature
Standen, and to have patience, because
Laurence was not dead; that he was alive
and would return to bless her, not to curse
her, as he had done when he thought
her faithless.

Oh,' she said, trembling with delight,
and clasping Liza's hands in a vice-like
grasp ; ' I could go mad with joy, to think
you are really mine again, with all your
life before us, and my experience at your
service. What a life we will have; your
pages are all clean, all unwritten on; you

are at the beginning of volume one ; take
care of the blots, no one can erase them
once they stain the fair white sm-face ; no
one can ever outlive a crime or a sin or a
fault. Oh! we have much to think of;
I have so much to tell you, so much advice
to give you, I can't think how to begin
And she laughed a long low unsteady
laugh, and then impressed another burning
kiss on Liza's forehead.

Can't we get rid of those women ? '
she asked presently, glancing in a suspicious
way at Mrs. Morgan and Mrs. Yerney.
I want to be alone with you.'

'My dear lady, first let me get the tea
said Mrs. Morgan coming forward, ' else
we shall starve your visitors. They have
come a long way, you know, and you should
think of that.' Then, as Lady Standen
rose once more, still holding Liza's hand,
and moved away from the cupboard where

the tea-things were kept, she whispered
to Mrs. Yerney : ' Stay by the bell, ma'am,
we shall want the doctor in a few moments,
or else I am greatly mistaken ' ; and busying
herself in preparing the table for the meal,
she yet watched her patient carefully, as
she continued to talk ceaselessly, never
giving Liza time to open her mouth, even
if she had been inclined to do so.

Resolutely believing that Liza was her
younger self, she talked of nothing save
her sufferings and the manner in which
they could be avoided in the new life before
her ; and gave her such an account of her
life with Sir Marmaduke that, forgetting
Mrs. Buckworth's description of her father,
and that mad people were not to be relied
on in the least, Liza began to hate her
dead parent even more fiercely than she
had done before. And believing firmly that
to him alone was due her mother's present

state, she vowed to foret him and his
teaching as soon as ever she could, the
while she longed to escape from Dreewood,
where she could see her presence would
never be necessary again. For even if she
could make her mother's clouded brain
receive the fact that she was her daughter,
she had sense enough to know that far from
this being a comfort to her, the poor vain
creature would be much more likely to
resent this circumstance, because Liza would
be younger and prettier than she was herself,
than to receive with rapture intelligence that
would be nothing save empty words.

Up to that minute Liza had not spoken,
but in reply to something Mrs. Morgan said,
she at last opened her lips; but she had
hardly got a word out when Lady Standen
dropped the hands she held, clapped both her
own to her forehead, and fled with a shriek
to her chair, where she buried her face for

VOL. I. M

one moment in the cushions. Mrs. Morgan
made a sign to the others to flee, but Liza,
mistaking her intention, went up to her
mother and began trying to soothe her. But
this roused her to fury, and declaring that
Sir Marmaduke had taken upon himself to
personate her dead youth, as another means
of insulting a defenceless woman, she flew
upon her daughter, yelling and screaming,
and pouring out a flood of foul language, the
while she struck wildly at the frightened
girl. And though the matron at once secured
her in a professional manner from behind,
and Mrs. Yerney rang for help, Liza was so
dreadfully alarmed that, notwithstanding her
courage, she fell into Dr. Spencer's arms ina
dead faint when he entered the room, from
which she was roused with the very greatest
difficulty.

*Ali! Dr. Spencer,' she said, when she
was restored to herself, and stood waiting for

the carriage on the steps of the house ; ' you
were right and I was wrong. I hope I need
never come here again,' and she looked
apprehensively at the doctor, who could not
resist smiling,

My dear young lady,' he said, ' for
twenty years your poor mother has existed
without you; she is not likely to want
you now, is she ? any more than she did.
I will look after her carefully, I promise you,
and I will send Knightonon to you every now
and then, to tell you the latest news. Now
good-bye ; forget this afternoon's work if you
can, and always let me know your address.'
And so saying, the doctor put the girl into her
carriage and watched it drive away, smiling
still, while much to Mrs. Verney's astonishment,
Liza sank back on the cushions and
cried quietly and silently all the way home to
the hotel, while, when it was reached, she
rushed to her room, where she remained all

VOL. I. M 2

night behind her locked door, coming down
the next morning a little white and drawn-looking,
but having nothing at all to say on
the subject of the asylum, which never was
mentioned again to her by Mrs. Verney as
long as they were together.

INTRODUCED TO SOCIETY.

The Honourable Juliettete and the Honourable
Hyacinth Farrer were two ladies of a certain
age, whose careers as members of society had
been brought to an untimely end in the commencement
of their second season, by the
inauspicious manner in which their father,
Lord Maurice Farrer, had disappeared suddenly,
his face set towards Spain, and his
debts unpaid, in a manner that caused much
bad language among his creditors.

There was no thanks due to him that
300 a year and the big house in Eaton
Square stood between his two daughters and

starvation, and regardless of the fact that even
this splendid income was all they had to look
forward to, they continued in the old home,
ever expecting the return of the wanderer, of
whom they had nothing but kindly thoughts,
and whose home-coming was to refute all the
wicked gossip that had crystallized round his
unhonoured name.

In those days Juliettete had had the ball of
social success at her feet, and this she could
never forget, and in consequence, exacted
certain comforts and deference from her
younger sister that were only too willingly
given, and which had been all very well when
they were young ; but as age became a probability
; and, as Miss Hyacinth remarked plaintively,
coals and rates rose simultaneously, it
was undoubtedly necessary to take definite
steps to provide for a time when really good
food would be a sine qua non, and when Miss
Hyacinth would be unable to battle at that

bear-garden, the Stores, with other impecunious
females who, for the sake of saving a
few pence on each article, undergo an immense
amount of wear and tear of temper
and loss of time, in procuring things, to be
obtained by sending a post-card to the nearest
grocer's.

Indeed, had it not been pathetic, it would
have been ridiculous to see proud little Miss
Hyacinth wrestling with the crowd, to obtaui
her share of the scanty attention to be had
from the supercilious young men behind the
counter; and as she attired herself for the
purpose in an enormous bonnet and veil, great
gloves, and goloshes, at least three sizes too
big for her, to disguise from the public the
tiny ears, hands, and feet that in her estimation
would stamp her as a Farrer in the eyes
of the most obtuse; she looked so like a
venerable lodging-house keeper that it often
took her a whole day to do her ' shopping,'

and so fatigued her, that she could not resist
letting her sister know all she felt and her
fears for a future, that she dimly comprehended
was not quite so far off as it used to
be.

This dreary shopping, and the impossibility
of letting Juliettete have quite as many little
comforts as that spoiled beauty deemed
necessary, so wore upon her spirits, that Miss
Hyacinth fell ill, and in the softened mood
caused in Miss Juliettete by the fact that she
could really be very unwell indeed, she was
emboldened to confess to that autocrat that if
she meant to remain in Eaton Square, some
steps, and those immediate ones, would have
to be taken to augment an income that was
quite inadequate for half the demands made
upon it. It was then the natural nobility of
the elder sister showed itself. Hyacinth had
always done so much, had gone without so
much, that Juliettete had really begun to believe

she liked scrimping and saving, and
doing the work of two maids, and, though it
was a severe struggle to the self-indulgent
woman, she rose to the occasion, and talked so
well and so wisely that her sister's veneration
for her was increased a thousand-fold, and
she was more than ever convinced what a
career had been spoiled by their* father's
selfish conduct.

The outcome of all this was that the
family lawyer was consulted, and the advertisement
appeared, which finally resulted in
Liza's answer ; while the arrangements as
regards money payment being all made by
Mr. Stansfield, their feelings were spared
as much as possible, and a new regime began
in Eaton Square, that added an inch apparently
to Miss Juhette's stature; although
Miss Hyacinth's high-bred honesty was such
that she would have spent every farthing of
Liza's ample payment on herself individually,

and had to be talked to for some time by the
united strength of the company,' consisting
of Mr. Stansfield and her sister, before she
could see that the new furniture and extra
maids engaged and paid on the strength of
the first quarterly stipend being forthcoming
in advance, were all for Liza's benefit, and,
therefore, were legitimate means of employing
the money, that she could hardly bear to
speak of, even in the privacy of her sister's
chamber.

Into this household, Liza and Mrs. Verney
arrived one dark, cold November night, when
the Square looked densely filled with fog,
through which the yellow gas lamps gleamed
dully ; and as the girl stood for a moment on
the threshold of the door, she shuddered
instinctively, feeling that for her all the
freedom of unconventionality was over and
done with, and that, at all events for the
present, she would have to suppress herself,

until she had discovered her way about
society,' and knew exactly when to speak and
when to hold her tongue.

Strong-minded and resolute as she washer
mother's state of health had given her a
real and permanent shock, and the week or
two that had elapsed since she left the Holt 
albeit the days had been principally spent
among shops and her nights at theatres 
had taught her so much, that she could only
look about her and wonder how she should
ever make up the time she had lost in the
wilds of Cornwall.

And indeed she was some weeks in Eaton
Square, and Christmas was well in sight,
before she even began to realise how intensely
different she was to all those with
whom she came in contact; and while she
was amused by the smallness of their aims
and the pettiness of the daily round of
trivialities, that engrossed them body and

soul, she could not resist a mighty scorn
seizing her for those who went regularly to
their fashionable church because everyone
else did, and who performed their religious
duties as they did everything else, without a
thought of what they really should mean,
and without being in the least deterred by
them, from vulgar scheming after matrimonial
successes for their daughters, or from caballing
together to keep outsiders away from
those inner circles, reserved alone for the
favoured creatures whose birth and means
were alike unexceptionable.

That Mrs. Verney laughed at all she saw 
that Sir Marmaduke's teaching all seemed
borne out by her experiences  only made
Liza feel profoundly disgusted, and more
resolved than ever on living her own life in
her own way ; and though her father had
now been dead only about three months, she
declared her resolution of casting off her

mourning, and going out into all the society
that her hostesses could procure for her.

You see, Miss Farrer,' she said, in reply
to some remark addressed to her one night
after dinner by the elder of the two sisters,
no one knows here how long my father lia
been dead, and I have no time to lose. I
did not care for him, and, indeed, hated him.
Why should I pretend to be in affliction, when
anyone who knows me at all must understand
how sincerely relieved I am to be rid of him ? '

Will you excuse me, Liza,' said Miss
Juliettete freezing, ' if I suggest that there
are certain commands that wee are bound to
consider, one of these most emphatically is
respect for the memory of a deceased parent. *"

You must remember I am a savage, and
don't care one pin for those commands,' said
Liza carelessly, taking up Miss Hyacinth's
work, which lay on the table by her, and
beginning to unravel it with her nervous

fingers. ' This is my father's teaching, and
if I can respect anything about him I should
certainly respect that

Oh ! my dear,' said Miss Hyacinth,
coming into the room at that moment, and
taking the work from her gently ; ' you really
mustn't. Christmas so near too, and not
half my things ready, though Mrs. Yerney's
help has been invaluable  there, what are
you and my sister discussing? One of the
old subjects, I presume ?

* Why are you doing this work ? ' asked
Liza in her usual manner, taking no heed
of Miss Hyacinth's question.

For my old nurse  a good soul, though
ungrateful,' said Miss Hyacinth smiling.
We can't afford to give presents, you know,
unless we make them. She won't care about
it, I daresay ; but then she'll remember I
have been thinking of her, and that's something.'


'Don't you ever long to get out of this
atmosphere of shams ? ' said Liza. ' It seems
to me that everything is such a pretence
here, and we can none of us even be natural.
Miss Farrer wants me to feign a grief I never
felt, and you are working your fingers to the
bone to benefit some wretched old person
who won't, on your own showing, care a bit
for it when it is done. Now I want to say
and do things, because I want to say and
do them; not because someone thinks I
ought to do and say certain other things.
Come what will, I, at all events, will be
natural.'

What would that result in ? ' asked Mrs.
Verney, looking up from a gaudy sofa-rug
she was making under Miss Hyacinth's
direction. ' You might as well refuse to
wear clothes because they are conventionaL
A long lapse of years has made the naked
natural body an indecent spectacle ; a long

lapse of clothed speech has made the naked
truth a disgusting object, and one we hate
to see planted before us. Miss Farrer will
bear me out, I am sure, in what I say. Is
it possible for any woman or man, who
respect themselves and who expect to be
asked out to dinner, to be really their natural
selves ? I put it to the meeting.'

'We are like a debating society now we
have Liza here,' said Miss Farrer looking
down at the novel she held in her hand.
Now, were I in the Palace of Truth, I should
say I want to read and do not wish to
discuss questions that have no answers, or
that have been answered long before we,
any of us, were born; but as we are only
in my drawing-room, I must say I don't
think it is possible to be natural, Mrs.
Verney, and I am quite sure I do not want
to be. We should all be very unpleasant
companions if we were. A natural person,

who persists in stating unpleasant truths,
would soon turn this world into a desert.
I'd rather be a little deceived than, for
example, that Liza should tell me she thinks
me a tiresome old woman, far too fond of
working Hyacinth to death, and far too
selfish for folks to like. I may know I am
all this, especially when I am not well, or
can't sleep, but I do not want to be confirmed
in my opinion of myself, I can tell you.'

As if any one could ever think such
nonsense, Juliettete dearest,' exclaimed Miss
Hyacinth, wringing her hands. ' You, the
sweetest, noblest, who, at our worst time
of trouble, never faltered, but upheld the
honour of our name as no one else could
possibly have done  you selfish ; I could
quarrel even with you for suggesting such
a thing,' and she glared round at the company
in quite a fierce and furious manner.

'We are going far a-field, as usual with

VOL. I.

women, when one particular subject lias to
be discussed,' interrupted Liza, not caring
to take up the challenge and declare Miss
Farrer all her sister thought her; for her
private opinion entirely coincided with the
one Miss Farrer had supposed her to hold.
We've done with the subject of my coming
out, and we are now settling morals instead
of manners. I want you to give a dance on
Christmas Eve, Miss Farrer -we can leave
the question of mourning until some other
occasion. I suppose you know enough
people to invite ? '

'Jane will give us all assistance about
that,' said Miss Hyacinth, looking at her
sister.

'The Duchess of Wallingford, the wife of
the head of our house, would naturally see
that society came back at our call,' replied
Miss Farrer with dignity ; ' but I really could
not undertake anything at present larger

than a carpet dance, besides which, Liza, you
are not presented, and there are no drawing-rooms
until March.'

 I have not the least intention of being
presented, said Liza emphatically.' 'Queens
and Kings are my detestation, beside which,
nothing on earth would induce me to show
myself anywhere in one of those disgusting
low dresses. Talk about savages, that is a
relic of savagedom if you like, and all proper
minded women should set their faces against
going to Court until the necessary costume is
altered. I call it too nasty of the Queen, and
she a great-grandmother. But putting that
out of the question, my father and I are
republicans, and were I to go to Buckingham
Palace to kiss hands, I should expect to see
his ghost there before me.'

*You are evidently hopeless, Liza; still
much has of course to be excused to you
when we consider your bringing up,' said

VOL. I. N 2

Miss Farrer, once more taking up her
work.

*Pray consider that or anything else, if
you will give way about the dance,' said Liza.

Recollect I have never been to a ball at all,
and I really pine to know if it be quite as
delightful as most girls make out.'

I am positively afraid of the effect it may
have on Liza,' said Mrs. Yerney smiling.

What will she say to the low dresses and the
waltz, I wonder, if she cannot bear the costume
of the drawing-room ; I shall be anxious to
hear her remarks when she sees any man who
likes clasp any girl he selects round the
waist, drawing her closely to him, and starting
off in a mad whirl. How thankful I am
I am not a savage, and that I have been
accustomed to these things from my youth
up ; otherwise really I might be inclined to
hold Byron's opinion on the subject.
Certainly use is second nature.'

Dear Mrs. Verney, excuse me, but Byron,
you know  well, it is not quite the poetry we
quote now-a-days,' said Miss Hyacinth
flushing.

Well, no; you read those elegant books by
lady authoresses from Muche's instead,' said
Liza smiling, and longing to quote passages
from 'Don Juan' to the old ladies. 'Listen
here,' and she proceeded to read a warm
description of a country house party, written
in a remarkably easy style ; where every
married woman seemed anxious to change her
husband for somebody else's, and where the
conversation was of the feeblest and most
flippant character. ' There, if that is society
and high life, I declare I prefer Cornwall
and solitude. I wonder, if I marry, if I shall
instantly tire of my husband and look out fora
lover.'

'Of course you will, I did,' said Mrs.
Yerney, laughing at the sisters' horrified

expressions. ' Now, Miss Farrer, recollect
we are in the Palace of Truth and forgive
me ; but think of your acquaintances all
round ; can you honestly name anyone who
could pose as Darby and Joan, for example,
and who are not heartily tired of each other ;
if so, pray ask them to the dance. I shall
require nothing more, there will be amusement
for me for the whole evening.'

The duke, the duchess,' gasped Miss
Hyacinth, appalled by Mrs. Verney's flippancy.
' Dear Hyacinth, hardly the duke,' said
Miss Farrer in a low tone, glancing at some
society ' journals, that, much to her open
disgust and secret amusement, came week
by week to Liza.

No ! hardly the duke and scarcely the
duchess,' interrupted Liza laughing, as she
remembered well the talk there was, or rather
the hints that were given about the duchess's
attachment to a younger son, who had not

disappeared as emphatically as he might have
done after the gorgeous wedding ceremony in
Westminster Abbey. ' However, we will leave
the family and go farther a-field ; come, Miss
Farrer, think, do yon know any two people
who are honestly attached to each other, and
whose thoughts have not hankered after some
other fate than they secured to each other
by the marriage service ? '

Miss Farrer looked at her sister, and then
down at the wedding-ring she wore on the
middle finger of her right hand.

Our mother's was an ideal marriage,'
she said, in a low tone of voice ; ' our dear
father was quite unhinged by her death,
and was never the same man again. She
gave me this ring on her death-bed  I was
only sixteen  and told me to look at it if ever
I were tempted to marry for anything save
love  '' it is all that is left of a perfect love,"
she said. I can sec her now, Hyacinth 

but there, I cannot talk about it. Ah ! me,
we did not know it then, but we lost
everything when she died,' and two large
tears crept down Miss Farrer's cheek, and
lay on the ring at which she was looking.

Then there were Aunt Florence and Lord
Henry Willoughby, dear,' said Miss Hyacinth,
taking her sister's hand in hers and patting
it gently; ' and that reminds me, where
is Koger, dearest ? we have not heard of him
for weeks. If we do give a dance for Liza,
we must be quite sure he is in town.'

He won't dance if he is,' said Miss Farrer
smiling; 'but he must, most certainly, come;
he is such an earnest fellow, and yet so clever.
I think he might be able to talk over Liza
into seeing some good in religion; that boy
has not a selfish thought, and spends himself
and his money in doing good.'

Just like one of Miss Yonge's goody-goody
creatures,' exclaimed Liza with a sneer.

Who was it said all her men were like
governesses in trousers ? I am sm-e yom*
description of Mr. Eoger What's-his-name
sounds quite as interesting and intellectual.'

Eoger Willoughby is our first cousin,
and as such must be spoken of with respect
said Miss Farrer quietly. ' He and Wilfred
Knightonon are the only male relations we
have, who really behave like relations. Of
course we look up to the duke, but then we
hardly ever see him  those two boys are constantly
here, or at least were, until they
became so busy.'

I have met a Mr. Knightonon,' remarked
Liza in a low tone. ' He is a doctor at
Dr. Spencer's at Dreewood; do you not
recollect I told you my mother was there.'

That is a brother ; we see little of him
indeed,' said Miss Hyacinth, ' very little.'
Wilfrid is a clergyman at Whitechapel, very
ritualistic ; his only fault, dear lad, and if

it please him, I don't see why we should
mind. I did work him a white stole once,
for weddings and christening, but it seemed
so ridiculous, you know, to dress up like
that, that I could never bring my mind todo
him another. Then he believes in
confession  but there, we set against all that
the work he does. Two courts are quite
respectable, where once even the police dare
not go down ; and Eoger told me that
in what was the worst, the inhabitants had
risen in a body and turned out one of the
lodgers, because they had found out he was
a thief, and they didn't want to lose the
character of the court again. There's a
triumph for Wilfrid  one can excuse a few
ribands, when such results as these are
obtained.'

Oh, dear me ! how we do wander,' said Liza,
with a yawn, and upsetting Flick the terrier
who was asleep on her lap. ' Here is bed-time

and nothing decided about our dance ; come,
Miss Farrer, to be or not to be, that's the
question; or rather would be, had I not
firmly made up my mind to give one somewhere
else, if you refuse to do it. I am sure
I could get hold of the Duchess. My name
is a good one, and my purse deep, and, in
fact, I mean to begin to be merry. Life is
going fast away, at least, all that part that
is worth having. Still, I want you to do it,
and then I can be introduced to the pious
Mr. Willoughby. Who knows, lie may
convert me, and I may yet be heard of asa
shining light at the East End,' and she
danced up to Miss Farrer, and looked down
at her with a merry twinkle in her eyes.

Miss Hyacinth and I will talk it over and
let you know tomorrow,' said Miss Farrer,
rising and ringing for prayers, an action that
she knew would cause Liza to disappear, and
which she always performed when lie wanted

to get rid of her at night ; and, as usual, it
had the desired effect, for hastily gathering
up her belongings and whistling to Flick,
Liza rushed away to bed, nearly upsetting
the fat butler, who had returned to ' the
family ' the moment Miss Farrer was able to
offer him a home again ; in a manner that
spoke volumes for his goodness and attachment
to his ' young ladies,' on whom he
had kept an eye ever since the day when
they told him, with tears, that they could
not retain him in their service, even without
wages, because they could not afford him
food.

In his opinion, Liza was naturally both an
interloper and a heathen, and he looked at
her always in such a manner, that she
declared more than once to Mrs. Yerney,
that either he must leave or she should ; but
naturally Mrs. Verney talked her over. But
when Foresaw heard of the proposed dance,

his spirits revived so much, that he became
quite civil to Liza, although he announced
his intention of keeping his eyes on both
her and Mrs. Verney, because he was quite
sure they were neither of them what they
ought to be, and he wasn't going to have the
family disgraced by ' no goings on,' as long
as he was in Eaton Square.

Indeed, Foresaw was mainly the cause of
Miss Farrer's giving in at last to Liza's
importunities, for he suggested that a dance
would be like old times again ; and so revived
remembrances of bye-gone glories, that even
his mistress became quite excited, and found
herself wondering what dress would best
become her on the auspicious occasion, in a
manner that she had not done since Lord
Maurice's disappearance, and the downfall
of all her castles in the air.

Dear me. Miss Farrer,' exclaimed Liza, as
they met on the passage on Christmas eve,

on leaving their rooms prior to a descent
to the ball room ; ' I should not have known
you; why don't you always look young and
pretty, I wonder ? ' and she gazed at the tall,
beautiful woman, who seemed to have slipped
twenty years from her shoulders with the old
black dress that had become her ordinary
wear.

Because I am neither one nor the other,'
said Miss Farrer gratified, more than she
would have cared to confess, by Liza's evident
admiration. ' Ah ! Liza, gather your rose-buds
while you may; beauty fades, and youth
will not last ; remember that, my dear.'

I do remember it, and that's why I wanted
my dance to-night,' said Liza brightly.
Come, dear Miss Farrer, there's the* bell 
say what you will, I only wish I had half
your good looks,' and gathering up the train
of her soft white silk, decorated with sundry
pale mauve flowers to mark it out as a garb

of mourning, she ran down to the ball-room,
and was soon highly amused by watching the
scene around her, and receiving the homage
her unmistakable beauty and riches earned
for her.

So that's your heiress, Julie ? ' said a man
about thirty two, who was leaning against one
of the doors watching all that went on ; 'I
should say you have your hands full. She
looks masterful. What a curious expression
she has too, quite unlike anyone else  does
she show any traces of Sh Marmaduke's extraordinary
fancies on the subject of education V

Oh, Eoger, dear boy ! ' exclaimed Miss
Farrer, as she turned hurriedly round, and
caught sight of his square, good-tempered
face, that not even his profoundest admirer
could call anything save plain ; ' you are
here, then. Yes ; that is Miss Standen.
Let me introduce you ; I know you don't
care for young ladies, but then she is an

exception to the rule  she has abbacy heard
of yoii.'

Ah ! in your usual kindly manner you
have been singing my praises, I suppose,'
said Mr. Willoughby smiling. * No, no ; I
don't want to be introduced to her yet, at
any rate, I would so much rather look on and
be able to watch her. Hullo ! ' he said, ashe
caught sight of Mrs. Yerney's figure
among the crowd ; ' how on earth did Mrs.
Dugarron get here, of all places in the world ?
I thought you, at least, were particular,
Julie ; or perhaps this is Jane's idea of a
joke ? '

Who ? What  what did you say ? ' said
Miss Farrer nervously.  No one is here who
ought not to be, Roger, dear ; Jane gave me
the list. That lady in black is Mrs. Yerney
Liza's companion  one of the Yerney's,
you knows in reduced circumstances, poor
soul, and, of course, we feel for her.'

*You are talking like Cynthia, not like
yourself exclaimed her cousin frowning.
That is no Verney ; it is River's divorced
wife. I don't often speak scandal, cousin Julie,
or remember it, but I am as positive of my
facts as I can be. Why, I was witness in the
case, worse luck; Ernest Dugarron was my
dearest friend. If you don't believe me,
Knightonon will confirm my statements. I'll
bring him here tomorrow and we'll confront
her together  you owe it to Miss Standen, to
rescue her from such a companion.'

Let me introduce you to Liza,' urged
Miss Farrer ; ' she will set your mind at rest
in a moment, she has all Mrs. Verney's testimonials
; besides, it is impossible to live with
her and not see she is a lady.'

No one would call her anything else,'
replied Mr. Willoughby ; ' all the same, she
was the Countess of Vivers, and ran away
from her husband with another man. Sir

VOL. I. o

Mameluke's teaching seems to have infected
you, Jiihe, else yon, I am sure, would never
defend her for a moment. By-the-way, I
will he introduced to Miss Standen, and at
once; a little cross-questioning will soon
show me if she be privy to this deception,
or if she be taken in too. I wonder she
dare come down stairs into general society.
No one who ever saw her could possibly
forget her. Why all London ran after her
one season ; then came the smash. The
talk increased her notoriety, and at one time
her photograph was in all the shop windows,
between Totty de Lisle and the Princess
of Wales, in the usual mixed way of the
vendors of these articles. Judging from the
attention Miss Standen is receiving, her
photograph will be in demand next season.
If it were not for that curious look she has in
her eyes, she would be quite as good-looking
as even you were. Cousin Julie ; and judging

from all my father has told me, and that L
recollect, that is no light praise

 Ah ! flatterer, I will not listen to you, or
I shall have my head turned too,' said Miss
Farrer, smiling at the man, who was ten
years or more her junior, and who, at the
mature age of six, had persisted in proposing
to her at any and every opportunity. ' But
I am in no mood for compliments, Roger ;
you have made me very uneasy, I cannot conceal
the fact. Still I do believe you are
mistaken ; if she were as well known as you
say, she would never have dared to comedown
to-night.'

Did she make any opposition ? ' asked her
cousin, still looking fixedly at the lady in
question. ' Did you tell her I was coming ?
She must surely have remembered my name
in connection with the case

She certainly did oppose our desire of
seeing her among us, but only on the score

VOL. I. o 2

of her dress said Miss Farrer. 'Ah ! here
comes Liza, now I will introduce you, Eoger,
for people are beginning to look at us. I am
sadly neglecting my duties '  and anxious to
escape from the ideas that Mr. Willoughby
had put into her head, and being quite sure
he was mistaken in his statement, Miss
Farrer performed the introduction, and
making some excuse, hurried away to the
duchess, to whom she confided Eoger' s suspicions,
and who at once made her easy by
declaring she had seen Lady Yivers scores
of times, and that she was not in the least
like the companion  a declaration that spoke
volumes for the duchess's powers of noticing
the personal appearance of those whom she
considered beneath her in the social scale.

IN THE CONSERVATORY.

After the hasty introduction was effected,
Mr. Willoughby could scarcely resist from
plunging headlong into the question of Mrs.
Verney's identity with Mrs. Dugarron; but
naturally it was a matter that required some
amount of delicate handling, and he hardly
felt able to begin the subject in the ball-room,
where he and Liza were standing for a few
moments, while she examined her card and
wondered whether either of the hieroglyphics
inscribed thereon represented Mr. Willoughby,
whose name she had not heard when Miss
Farrer had performed the hurried ceremony

by which they were made known to each
other. At last he said 

No, you will not find my name there, or
on any other card, Miss Standen. I am that
most miserable of all create-es, a man who
cannot dance. I have no ear, alas ! and, inconsequence,
have given up victimizing any
unfortunate girl who is good-natured enough
to endeavour to accommodate herself to my
steps, or rather, my lack of step.

Then why do you come to balls ? ' asked
Liza smiling; I should have thought bed
would be preferable to standing about watching
other people enjoy themselves.'

So you share Shakespeare's notion
then, that 'rit is hard to look at pleasure
with another man's eyes," ' said Mr.
Willoughby laughing. ' I can't say I
agree with you; for example, it is very
pleasant for me to watch all these pretty girls
flitting about, to see the bright dresses and the

flowers, and to hear lively music and laughter,
and this, too, without feeling it incumbent
on me to share in the exertion of dancing.
Now if I did dance, it would be my duty to
look out for all the neglected ones, and to
select only those plain and awkward girls for
whom I am so profoundly sorry, because life
is so disappointing to them  and now I need
do nothing of the kind ; they don't care to talk,
or I'd talk to them  and in consequence, I
look at pleasure through all their eyes. Miss
Standen, and enjoy this ever so much better
than using my own.'

'You are very unlike the usual run of
human beings,' replied Liza, looking at the
plain, good face of her companion ; ' and so I
should think you must be Eoger. I have
heard so much about you,' she went on, as
Mr. Willoughby, bowing profoundly, gave her
to understand she was right in her surmise ;
in fact, we hear a little too much al)out

your perfections, and I fully expected you
to be a bore. Your cousins declare you
think it wicked to dance  I shall like you
better now I know the real cause.'

I am afraid I must confess to looking
upon balls as rather a waste of time,'
answered Koger ;  but, Miss Standen, shall
we adjourn to the conservatory ? You look
tired, and if you do not want to dance the
next dance, we might as well talk where we
shall not be scowled at for taking up other
people's room, and there are one or two
things I should like to ask you.'

*The conservatory, by all means,' said Liza,
gathering up her long skirts in one hand
gracefully, and leading the way towards the
tinyglass-house, that, being situated at the end
of the two drawing-rooms, where the dancing
was being carried on vigorously, commanded
a good view of the scene. * To tell you the
truth,' she added, as they seated themselves

on a low red divan, cunningly arranged
among the palms hired for the occasion,
I am very tired ; but more, I think, of the
foolishness of the man of the period than
of dancing. Everyone of the dear create-es,
when they talked at all, said exactly the
same things and asked the same questions.
Of course, I am a savage, and look at all
this much as a savage would ; but surely
all the people in London are not as idiotic
and feather-pated as these youths seem to
be?'

You would hardly expect them to plunge
headlong into serious or weighty matters the
moment they are introduced to you, would
you ? ' asked Mr. Willoughby smiling. * All !
see, one of your empty headed acquaintances
is coming to claim you  I suppose you must
gov

'No, indeed, I shall not,' answered Liza,
fuming and looking down at her card ; then,

as her proposed partner reminded her of her
engagement, she calmly remarked she was
better amused talking than dancing, and
got rid of him with so little attempt at
conventional excuse, that, despite his rage,
Lord Perceval Drury could not help being
amused at his dismissal; while Eoger
Willoughby, watching him away, said :
Are you aware of what you have done ?
That man is hunted by all the mammas
in London, and half the girls in the
room are envious of you  now you have
made him your enemy. Why did you not
say you were too tired to dance, even if
you wanted to cast such an opportunity of
ensnaring the catch of the season into the
streets ? '

Oh ! I really don't care one bit if he be
cast away altogether,' replied Liza, carelessly
twisting her fan ; ' it will be extremely good
for him to discover that there is one young

woman in London who does not join in the
hunt. After all, I begin to be a morsel
grateful to my father. If he had not shut
me up in Cornwall all my life, I might have
been exactly like anyone else ; and then,
perhaps, I should have smirked sweetly at
his lordship and smoothed him down with
a lie. Faugh ! I feel quite ill when I think
I too might have longed to be united to the
catch of the season. Now I may truly say,
man delights me not

Nor woman neither,' finished Mr. Willoughby.


Oh, dear no ; I could not truthfully
repeat that,' said Liza eagerly, yet laughing
too; 'no, no, ]vii'. Willoughby, I am quite
in love with my own sex. We are ever so
much more interesting than men. Now,
I have literally nothing to say to the average
man, while I can talk by the yard to a
woman  they are so interesting and amusing.

and have so much experience, and then, if
they are good like your cousins, they make
me feel good too, and that, I can assure you,
is a novel sensation, and one not in the least
encouraged by my father, who believed in
the wickedness of the world, and could see
nothing good in it at all.'

And where have you seen so many
women?' asked Mr. Willoughby, interested
despite himself at Liza's manner. * I must
confess I am sorry men do not strike you
favourably as a whole ; but I can flatter
myself I am not an average man, for, at any
rate, you have found me worth talking to.'

I can't quite say that,' answered Liza
naively. ' Anyhow, you are more interesting
at present; though I cannot allow you are
nearly as amusing as Mrs. Yerney, for
example. I can talk to her by the hour
together, and we make delightful excursions
all over London. I know just where Tom

Pinch lived, have seen Squeers and his boys
in my mind's eye setting off from Snow Hill
over and over again, and I have walked in
Kensington Square with Esmond and
Beatrice ; I could tell you the exact house
Amelia lived in Russell Square, and there is
not one city church I have not explored
from crypt to bell-tower. Have you ever
seen the city on a Sunday, Mr. Willoughby ?
I think it the most delightful place I ever
was in ! Then there's Epping Forest, and
oh ! a thousand places, all of which, doubtless,
would bore you to death, but are joys
indeed to us who have our Thackeray and
Dickens at our fingers' ends.'

But so have I,' interrupted Mr. Willoughby ;
and as I live in Whitechapel, a sweet and
savoury spot to anyone who does not mind
Jews and can properly appreciate sugar-baking
and fried fish, I may say I do know
the city on Sunday ; and as to Epping

Forest, I've been there in a van, Miss
Stanclen, and on a bicycle in wet weather
and dry, and I venture to declare there is
not one corner of it I don't know, even in
winter, and that is saying a great deal ; but,
of course, your acquaintance of it must be
wintery too ? '

I shall never forget Kingswood as long as
I live,' said Liza dreamily; 'those long weird
arms stretching up as if in profound agony,
the beautiful colour of the ground, inches
deep in cast-off foliage, and the wonderful
purple air hanging in the branches, and then
the mystery of the blue calm distance. I
can't tell you how colour affects me, ]mr.
Willoughby. I am sure you won't think me
absurd if I say that nothing gives me profounder
satisfaction than colour, and nothing
impresses me more painfully than ugliness
and lack of colour. I thought I was going to
miss my Cornish seas] at first, but I think

there is much here at present that consoles
me ; and if I feel very home sick I go
and gaze at Tmiier, or, better still, wander
to Chelsea, and hang about the embankment.
I love the grey river, and the red-sailed
barges, and the mist, to say nothing of
Carlyle and Leigh Hunt and Rosette  they
are all on the embankment v/itli me; and
oh! how much, much better they are to
know than most people. This sounds a
little cracked, I am afraid,' she added ; ' but
these grey ghosts resolve themselves into the
hue of winter, you know; doubtless, when
spring and summer comes, we shall turn our
minds more to the present day, and to the
living people round us who make history.'

'And lue means ?' asked Mr. Willoughby.

Oh, Mrs. Verney and I, of course,*
answered Liza carelessly. ' I have introduced
Mrs. Verney to the ghosts, she is in
return to show me my heroes. I will confess

to you, Mr. Willoughby, that at present my
heart is given away  or, rather, divided
between Gladstone and Robert Browning;
and I want to talk to them both ; at least, I
mean, I should like them to talk to me. If ever
I choose anyone, in the prevailing fashion of
courtship, it will be someone that resembles
either of my heroes. I should dearly love
to belong to a husband who had done something
great. I don't want glory myself; but
I feel I could do justice to life if I spent it
in the reflected beams of a sun that was all
mine, the while it illuminated the world.'

Be warned in time. Miss Standen, and
avoid a genius as you would a pestilence.
Think of Mrs. Carlyle, to say nothing of a
thousand others,' said Mr. Willoughby.
Lady Byron, you know was not as happy
as could be dashed; and, in our own day,
there was poor Mrs. Dickens. Now, my
experience tells me those women are really

happiest  though I grant you they don't thmk
so  who are the stronger of the two yoked
together in the matrimonial car. A man to
he really loving and faithful to the end, must
be made to feel his inferiority, and must be
in wholesome awe of the domestic goddess.
Now, a genius, you know, hangs up his harp
with his great coat, and is the dullest of the
dull at home, where he is also liable to snap
as well as snarl if he is not fed there with
a little of the flattery that is lavished
on him abroad ; and reflected glory soon
pales, now you should marry an adoring
fool. I am sure you and the genius would
soon be at loggerheads  two of a trade never
agree, you know.'

Never was there anyone less like a genius
than I am,' said Liza energetically. ' Do
you know, I never wrote a line of poetry in
my life, and never wanted to. I can't
paint, and wouldn't if I could, for I could

VOL. I. p

never do nature justice, and I'd rather look
at her any day than at the best copy of her
that ever was made ; and, m fact, I don't
want to do anything, save enjoy myself, and
this I have done ever since I took my life
into my own hands and escaped from my
prison. Now I can do as I like, there is
nothing to stop me.'

And is Mrs. Verney going to assist yoii
in this praiseworthy and ambitious career of
yours ? ' asked Mr. Willoughby, quietly watching
Liza ; ' if so, I feel inclined to ask you if
you had good references with your companion.
You want a careful guide if you are going todo
as you like and think of no one save yourself;
and my cousins, I should say, would
be more reliable than a mere stranger, who
neither by birth nor experience can be,
but,' added he, breaking off hastily, ' you are
no ordinary miss, why should I not say what
I mean straight out. I know who Mrs. Yerney

was and is, Miss Standen, if you do not ;
let me tell Julie, she can get rid of her
quietly, and you will soon procure another
companion. I assure you they are not difficult
to find

I knew all Mrs. Verney's story as soon as
she came to me,' replied Liza ; * and I have
not the very smallest idea of changing her.
She has been very unhappy, very badly
treated by the world, and I intend to do my
best for her. Mind you, I should not do this
if she did not suit me in every way ; but as
she does, there is no more to be said in the
matter. Let us talk of something else,' and
Liza was about to draw Mr. Willoughby's
attention to some of the guests, when he
said 

But, Miss Standen, you cannot possibly
know about Mrs. Verney. I must tell my
cousins. Of course she has her version,
but'

VOL. I. P 2

I have read the whole case. It was one
of those my father used to bring before my
notice as a reason why I should spend my
days alone with him at the Holt,' interrupted
Liza. ' Oh ! Mr. Willoughby, you must not
interfere with me if we are to continue
friends. Mrs. Yerney cannot harm me, cannot
tell me anything I don't know. Besides,
where is she worse than Lord Perceval
Drury, for example, whose name, if I remember
rightly, is also in my book; or than Lord
Vivers ? I have the profoundest contempt
for men, and it will not be lessened if you
turn and rend my poor friend, to whom you,
a pious gentleman, deep in philanthropy,
should rather say, " go and sin no more''
more especially as she does not want to, for
living with me is so much better than anything
else she has ever experienced, and I
mean to stand by her if no one else does.'

Mr. Dugarron was my dear friend, and

had a noble career before him, Yhich that
woman ruined,' said Eoger Willoughby; 'he
meant simply to show her a way to salvation,
and she compromised him horribly ; he found
himself in such a situation that he was
forced to marry her, and he died of the
shame ; and the girl he loved and was going
to marry, before that reptile crossed his
path, and who loved and believed in him
to the end, was shut out from his death-bed
by that woman's hand

Which was the hand of his lawful
wife,' interrupted Liza. ' Excuse me, Mr.
Willoughby, if I remind you that is one side
of the story. Besides, I maintain that no one
has a right to pry into anyone's past, and to
weigh their actions by the world's standard.
Right and wrong are often enough a mere
question of time and place  what is right in
America being wrong in England, and so on.
Logically considered, crime is a mere question

of climate  murder is not murder when
called war. In Utah, a man has ten wives
and no one interferes; whereas here we
call it bigamy if he have only two, and give
the perpetrator three or seven years  which
is it ? Savages put old and - troublesome
people out of the way ; and, in fact, it is only
here, in this region of shams and falsity,
that the law interferes and makes sin, wherein
other countries the inhabitants see nothing
but laudable and wide-minded arrangements
for the survival of the fittest and the comfort
of the many, as opposed to that of the few.'

Roger here burst into a roar of laughter.
My dear Miss Standen,' he exclaimed, when
his attack of hilarity had subsided, the while
Liza watched him with a supercilious smile ;  at
the risk of insulting you, I am obliged
to laugh, or else I should really be forced
into thinking you were talking what you truly
believe. Why, if we followed out your

theory, we should result only in the survival
of the strongest and least scrupulous among
us. It would never, never pay for a moment,
putting it on the lowest grounds ; and, of
course, on a higher standpoint, your ideas
are simply those of uncivilized nations, and
were done away with entirely when Christianity's
mild and beneficent reign began.'

Were they indeed ? ' asked Liza scornfully.
' Say they were made amenable to,
and punishable by law, and you will be right ;
but say they were done away with, and you
at once talk arrant nonsense. How often
does the heir to a fine property long to put
his father underground, in order that he may
step into his shoes ? He does not do it,
because he is afraid of being found out and
hanged, but his wish is all there. And how
often do you not hear girls talk of what they
shall have when their parents die ? Surely
here is the same spirit that causes the more

truthful savage to put the old people out of
the way. I can't imagine any reason either
why they should be kept alive ; they are a
nuisance to themselves very often, and to
everyone else ; and I am sure when I grow
old, I shall only be too grateful to anyone
who would have the courage to administer tome
my quietus.'

When you are old, I shall hope to meet
you and hear your sentiments on that same
subject then,' said Mr. Willoughby. 'I assure
you you will have changed your mind about
it, as well as about a great many other things.
You see, unfortunately, we are all kept in awe
of a Higher Power, and if we do commit
murders, or act unscrupulously or wickedly,
we shall have to pay our debt to Him, if not
to society. There is one great use of religion
you see. Miss Standen ; it keeps us straight
and makes us take a more wholesome view of
life altogether.'

I can't see that it does anything real,'
said Liza earnestly. * It only venders the
savage, it does not alter the man, who presumably
was made with all his evil passions
and desires complete by this same Higher
Power of yom's.'

It may not entirely alter him, but it
restrains him,' answered Mr. Willoughby,
thinking at the same time what an extraordinary
subject they had fallen upon for a
ball-room ; ' and, after all, veneer is something
; and in time, if we all try to be honest
and good, I am sure we end by being so.
You have only seen the black side of human
nature. Miss Standen ; my cousins will show
you the reverse of the picture. Better women
never lived, of that I feel sure.'

Yet look at Miss Farrer's selfishness and
Miss Hyacinth's foolishness,' said Liza.

Father look at their high-minded truth
and their perfect love for each other,' urged

Mr. Willoughby. * Hyacinth adores Julie,
and is never so happy as when she is waiting
upon her, and June's very strong commonsense
keeps Cynthia straight. Why will you
not see there are two sides to every picture ? '

You only see one where Mrs. Verney m
concerned,' said Liza mischievously.

Because there are some people who are
done for, and who can never be made fit to
associate with again, and Mrs. Dugarron is
one,' said Mr. Willoughby firmly ; ' she can
have no future save one of repentance.'

But what sort of a future could that be ? '
asked Liza innocently ; ' do you mean a
sisterhood, or some such nonsense as that ?
I was not good enough for man and so was
given to God" is what you mean, I suppose?
If she is not fit to be with me, she cannot
be fit to be with anyone. I shall stand by
her to the end, and try to make up to her for
all she has suffered. Don't you think your

God ever stops exacting a punishment for sin ?
What a hard creed is yours, to be sure.'

'It is not my creed especially,' answered
Eoger, 'but it is a law that no one can evade;
you cannot bury your past, or rather, you
cannot lay its ghost to rest  when least
expected it rises, and exacts just payment of
its debts.'

Ah ! you mean a known past,' said Liza
easily ; ' how about the sin that is never
discovered ? '

That exacts its pound of flesh, too,' replied
Mr. Willoughby calmly. ' You are fond of
quotations. Miss Standen, doubtless you
remember the one beginning, '' Though the
mills of God grind slowly yet they grind
exceeding small." '

'Oh! yes, I know it; but then you have to
have a god,' said Liza, rising and looking
straight before her ; ' now I, you know, am
not encumbered with one, and so I need not

bother myself about anything of the kind. I
believe, yes, I really do believe, that I am
again grateful to papa  a religion seems to
be a very great nuisance. Now nothing, save
a dread of law and lawyers, would prevent
me doing exactly as I like; and as I have
a steady nerve and a clear brain, I may defy
them  it is only fools who are found out.'

 " And all who say in their hearts there is
no God," ' said Mr. Willoughby, with a low
bow ; ' another quotation, but one I don't
expect you to recognise. Miss Standen.'

Psalms of David,' replied Miss Standen
quickly ; ' I was given the Bible, too, Mr.
Willoughby. Papa wished me to see what
sort of men were considered the models for
future generations. There was Solomon and
David, you know, and, in fact, all of those
pious gentlemen, and yet not one of them
kept straight. I am not quite such a fool
after all, you see ! '

Stay half a moment said Mr. Willoughby,
as Liza moved forward as if she were going
to join the dancers again ; 'do tell me  what
are you going to do with your life ? '

I am going to enjoy myself first and foremost,
and then I should very much like to
really fall in love,' replied Liza; ' it seems to
be such an extraordinary sensation, and
makes people do such curious things, that I
should really like to know what it is like. At
present I cannot imagine caring for anyone
more than I care for myself, especially for a
man ; but Mrs. Verney says there is nothing
so delightful as real love, and so I do hope I
may some day experience it. Isn't it curious
to look at all that crowd, none of whom do
I care if I never see again ; and to think that
among them there may be one I may love,
whose voice may charm me, and whose very
touch may be pleasure ? Were you ever in
love, Mr. Willoughby ? '

Scores of times said Eoger easily. 'first

and foremost, I adored my nm'se, and, in fact, I

believe I love her still ; no one ever gave me

such tea and toast, or mended my socks as

she did  now they are either in big holes on

Sunday morning or have great rucks in them,

which are agony. Then I adored Julie, she

vas so lovely I couldn't help it ; of course,

she is years older than I am, but that was all

the better, she helped me on my way, and gave

me an ideal of womanly grace and beauty

that I have always kept. Then I naturally

loved a good many pretty girls, but, after all,

none as much as either Julie or my dear old

Robertson. If you are very good, I will take

you to tea with her some day in her pretty

almshouse, and you, too, shall be introduced

to that tea and that toast.'

Now you are talking nonsense,' exclaimed
Liza pettishly, ' and that I cannot bear. If
I talk at all, I like to talk sense. The reason

why the world keeps so foolish is because
deeper subjects are never touched upon.
Now I did think you were different.'

And so I am ; but not here, nor now,'
said Koger earnestly. ' You see. Miss Stan-den,
we don't know very much of each other,
do we ? and, between ourselves, I don't feel
like making confidences that will, doubtless,
be served up with sauce piquante for Mrs.
Dugarron's delectation. I suppose you have
told, and will tell her all your innermost
thoughts, and have given her your perfect
confidence ? '

That I share with no one,' said Liza
firmly. ' My life is my own  I am my own
and to myself alone I stand or fall.'

A beautiful sentiment, truly ; but still let
us select some other place than the conservatory
for a real talk,' said Mr. Willoughby.
By the way, just one moment before you go.
Miss Standen. Are you going to tell Julie

240 A Tangled Chain.

about Mrs. Dugarron-Yerney-Vivers, or shall
I ? If you persist in keeping her, I do not
see how I am to allow my cousins' roof to
shelter her

Are you aware that if I leave your cousins
they will not be able to give many more
balls ? ' asked Liza.

Yes, quite ; but an honest workhouse is
better than a palace shared with that woman.
Eight must be done, whatever comes after,*
replied Eoger.

Give me a day or two to think,' said Liza.
Nothing will induce me to part with my
friend, but I may think of some plan. Ah !
Sir Arthur,' she added, as a gentleman came
towards her, evidently meaning to claim her,
 it is our dance, I see. Good-bye, Mr.
Willoughby, but let me know when we shall
meet again.' And so saying, and nodding
gaily, she abruptly broke off her talk and
was soon dancing merrily among the rest

of the company; while Koger Willoughby,
returning to the seat she had just vacated,
sank back among the cushions and watched
the dance, which to him seemed the most
fooHsh sight possible, when he remembered
those among whom most of his days were
passed, and how poverty, sickness, and crime
were going on a stone's throw from the place
in which he was seated.

He had scarcely resumed his usual sad
train of thought, when he was interrupted
by a voice on his right hand which spoke
his name, and turning abruptly he found
he was face to face with the widow of his
old friend. He felt his cheek burn, but he
said firmly : ' Mrs. Dugarron in my cousins'
house  this is verily more than I can allow ! '

So I have heard you tell Miss Standen,'
said Mrs. Dugarron quietly, ' and that is why
I want five minutes' talk with you. Why
should you join in the hunt, Mr. Willoughby?

VOL. I.

For Ernest's sake leave me where I am.
What harm can I do ? '

As well should small-pox ask what harm
it could do,' said Mr. Willoughby fiercely.
*You ask what harm you can do, when to
exchange words with such as you seems tome
a moral degradation. Ernest was my
friend ; that is why I cannot let you be
with my cousins, Mrs. Dugarron  heaven
knows what you might do to them, or what
mischief you might work. A past such as
yours makes decent society an impossibility,
if you, and such as you, are to be allowed
to flaunt about there.'

I don't flaunt,' replied Mrs. Dugarron,
smiling faintly; 'if I did, I should expect
you to say all these hard things of me. You
know Lord Yivers, you know my past  now
leave me alone. I am earning my living
honestly, harming none. Miss Standen is
no innocent baby-girl, and even if she were.

I could only guard her from falling as I did.
Leave me alone, Mr. Willoughby, until you
find me "flaunting," then I will give you
full leave to turn and rend me in the
approved fashion of this Christian country,
that condoned every sin except the great
one of being found out. Miss Standen stands
by me.'

Miss Standen does not know what she is
doing,' said Mr. Willoughby; 'and if I did
know your first husband by name and report,
I knew your second well and thoroughly.
You debased that noble nature ; you slew
that kindly soul ; and you are to be here enjoying
yourself, and working your wicked will,
while he is in his grave  it is monstrous ! *

Monstrous it may be, but hunting me
away from here will not cause him to rise,'
replied Mrs. Dugarron, bringing out her
handkerchief and beginning to cry softly ; ' if
it could, I would allow you to hunt me any-vol.

I. Q 2

where you liked. Ernest would have been
alive now if other people had not driven us
about ; that was what he could not bear. He
did care for me. I should have made him
happy ; for his sake leave me alone. If I
leave here, where could I go ? I have only
one married sister, and she is poorer than I
am, and my father will not see me. I
promise you I will harm no one here, whereafter
all, I have no influence. I amuse Liza,
and when I cease to do that, or she marries,
I must go ; by then, I hope, I shall have
earned a character. Give me another chance,
Mr. Willoughby ! Remember you are always
preaching repentance and turning over a new
leaf  now practise what you preach,' and
Mrs. Dugarron held out her hands appealingly,
while the tears stood in her eyes.

*I will think over matters and let you
know,' replied Mr. Willoughby after a few
seconds' pause. ' If I see the smallest sign

of your talking to my cousins, or taking Miss
Standen anywhere she ought not to go, lookout
! In the meantime, I shall watch you
carefully, and see for myself if your repentance
is true or feigned. I am not easily taken in ' 
and bowing gravely, Mr. Willoughby left the
conservatory, and made his way through the
crowd to his cousin, who was eager to inform
him that the duchess was quite sure that he
was wrong in his suspicions ; while Mi's.
Dugarron, seeing that she could sip away
without being missed, went up to her room,
where she burst into a fit of real crying,
caused emphatically by finding out for herself
that she could no longer share in the
society where, for a brief period, she had
reigned a queen ; and that she only retained
her present position by favour at the hands
of those whom she hated, because they were
richer and safer than she could ever be
again.

Suddenly, as she sat looking into the fire,
an idea came into her head; and drying her
eyes, she sat thinking, thinking, until her
door opened, and Liza came into the room,
eager to talk over the ball  the success of
which, she had been solemnly assured by the
duchess, was quite enough to make people
talk, and to ensure her sufficient gaiety to
satisfy her, even though she adhered to her
first plan of not being presented at the Court
of Her Majesty the Queen  when she became
her old self, and entered eagerly into Liza's
plans, leaving her own in abeyance until the
time came to use them.

CHAPTER Park

VIH. PAIN OR PLEASURE 9 - 7

IX. SINGED WINGS 42

X. STRANDED ON A LEE SHORE 77

XI. ROGER SPEAKS - - - - - - 117

XII. MISGIVINGS - - - - - - 148

XIII. IN ST. BARNABAS' VESTRY - - - - 179

XIV. THE CRUEL MIST CREPT UP AND HID THE LAND - 21 G

CHAPTER VIII.

PAIN OR PLEASURE (

As the months drifted slowly by, Liza
Standen began to realise that life was, after
all, a far greater puzzle than she had expected
it to be.

Standing quite alone in the world, possessed
of a past that was unique in the set among
which she was thrown ; of a mother who was
but a fantastic shadow, yet substantial enough
to cast a gloom over any future that might
be hers ; and of ideas and beliefs that singled
her out among the crowd and compelled

attention, even if they did not command
respect; Liza began to feel somewhat temp
as the season waxed and commenced
to wane, and to long with almost a
fierce desire for some resting-place, some
haven of refuge where she could feel safe and
confident of any one thing.

Prepared as she had been by her father's
cynical and cruel system of education to find
the world wicked, friendship a mere matter
of social convenience, and love a question of
pounds, shillings, and pence, she could
hardly complain of disillusionment ; yet she
feared to discover that not only was her
father right, but that neither friendship nor
love existed at all, even in the disguise he
had prepared her to see through, for fear
she, like the rest of the world, might betaken
in by it.

Goodness, honour, Liza had found out for
herself did exist ; but they were simply to herat

present, something emphatically to avoid.
For did not goodness mean religion, unselfishness,
hard work, and was it not the cause
of every barrier raised between Liza and
an object she wished to attain ?

For example, ' goodness ' had prevented
Mrs. Buckworth from allowing Laura to
accompany her to London ; ' goodness '
had suggested that Mrs. Verney was not the
proper person to chaperone her, even in her
expeditions about London and the suburbs ;
and ' goodness ' had more than once suggested
to her that both her time and money
could be better employed than in dashing
from ball to ball, and from afternoon-tea to
dinner-parties, throwing in visits to the
dressmaker and bonnet-maker, which palled
even before some of the numerous new
garments ordered thereat came home. For
seven or eight months Liza had done simply
just as she liked, and had never found anyone

yet who would say her nay, or who had a
stronger will or nature than her own ; and
she began to weary of it all, and to long for
someone who would take her stormy temper
and her puzzled mind under direction, and
into whose hands she could commit herself,
sure that she had at last found her master.

Not that Liza meant by this that she
wished to be married. Marriage seemed to
be, for her, an impossibility; for she was old
enough to know what marriage meant, and
cast aside indignantly, as impossible for her,
the usual routine of life, and the nursery and
school-room cares for which she knew perfectly
well she never could, even by a
miracle, be fitted. But she would have
hailed with rapture a companionship, a
platonic friendship, in the highest sense of
the word, that should have placed her above
the turmoil and landed her peacefully in some
lotus-eating land, where she could be at rest,

and where she might quiet her mind, now
rent by the thousand and one difficulties
that seemed ever to beset her.

Gifted with a curious species of keen
sight, Liza had none of the usual glamour
that shrouds so much, to rid herself of ; she
saw in a moment the petty notions that moved
society, and seeing these clearly and acutely,
forgot there might be another side, and
condemned as a whole all that out of which
good might most certainly have been extracted.
Indeed, but for the fact that
religion to Liza was still no more than the
worship of Mumbo-Jumbo, by the time that
July was drawing to its end, she had reached
the state of mind that compels enthusiasts
to shut themselves up in convents or monasteries,
trusting there to find the peace and
safety denied them by the world ; or to
obtain there an answer to the dreary round
of perplexities that are universal property atone

time or other of the lives of every
human being. She had occasionally tried
the orthodox worship and had attended
more than one unorthodox gathering of
religious folk ; but seeing that Mrs. Verney
was an assiduous attendant at church, and
that even the gentle sisters were aggrieved
at the levelling tendency of an age that
permitted their butler's wife to go up to the
altar on Sacrament Sunday at the same time
that they did, forgetting, as they talked over
this lamentable sign of a degenerate time,
that a place in the Peerage does not presumably
ensure a corresponding situation
among the angels, she had turned away
unsatisfied from the one, and could find hi
the other nothing save either blatant vulgarity
or a dreamy hope that was a thousand times
less substantial than the surety she was
possessed of, that this world is all that we
can consciously possess. She had not yet

reached the higher platform from which she
could see that a good thing does not cease to
be good because people abuse it and do not
comprehend it ; and discovering that religion
was not all-powerful, did not swiftly compel
its followers to be perfect, was content to
say it was a worn-out superstition, not
recognising how much worse those who
professed it at all would have been without it.
In Eoger Willoughby she was curiously
interested, albeit she believed she recognised
in him one of the familiar types of good
young men, whose minds were bounded on
every side by the routine of the English
Church, and whose social ambitions were
kept down as much by his ordinary appearance
and his small income, as by a steady
belief that life was meant for something
beside amusement and the pursuit of pleasure.
Yet Liza had more than once wished
devoutly that he were a woman, in order

that he and she could have seen much more
of each other; when she could have discovered
whether or not his was the stronger intelligence
that should take her burden on itself,
or rather that would share with her the
burden that at times became well-nigh intolerable.


But any pleasure she experienced in
Eoger's company was largely spoiled by the
knowledge that meetings between them were
eagerly manoeuvred for by the Miss Farmers,
who would have gladly seen Liza's money in
Eoger's pocket; and by the fact that the
moment they met the world seemed to
think they were engaged to be married, and
gave them opportunities for solitude that
maddened Liza, and amused Mrs. Verney
immensely; the more because she had fully
made up her mind that Eoger and Liza
should never marry; and so much as she
longed to really speak out her mind and find

out for herself whether Eoger were all she
was inclined to think him, by the end of the
season she knew almost as little of him
really as she did on the evening of the hall
when she made his acquaintance first.

One by one suitors had laid their names 
it is a farce to say hearts  at her feet, only to
be politely refused, and Liza had fallen back
for male society on a certain Harold Kennedy,
who, being married, could naturally be considered
safe, and, indeed, would have been
very much surprised had anyone told him he
was not ; but who was not a favourite with
the Miss Farmers because he was unorthodox,
an artist, andros no family whatever. But he
amused Liza, the while he kept off all the
jeunesse clerc who, despite her assurances
that she would never marry, continued to
press themselves upon her notice in the
most aggravating manner possible. And so in
his and Mrs. Verney's society she had made

a great many of her favourite excursions,
regardless of the fact that people began to
avoid them just a little when they were met
in public, and that pointed enquiries were
invariably made for Mrs. Kennedy, did the
acquaintance stumbled on on any of these
expeditions stop and speak.

'It is a foolish world,' said Liza one
morning, as she and her two companions
were seated in the Eow, where the concourse
was perceptibly thinning under the
July sunshine. * Look at the Macgregor,
Mr. Kennedy; they won't see us, because
you are here; yet last night I sat an hour
in their conservatory talking with their
empty-pated son, and in consequence they
were all sugar to me. Yet that was improper,
really, as he was not married  now, you
are.'

1 Yes ; but you are supposed, popularly,
to be breaking Hilda's heart, don't you

know,' said Mr. Kennedy lazily. ' Poor
dear mamma McGregor ! I am truly grieved
for her. The paternal acres would be very
much benefited by your money, and it is hard
to see my evil attentions, when, otherwise,
Sandy might be seated by your side. Shall
I go and call him, Miss Standen ? He is
going off to Scotland the day after tomorrow,
poor dear boy. You may never have a chance
of smiling upon him again. By the way,'
he added, as Liza negatived this proposal
emphatically, ' where are you all going ?
That is the one question asked by everyone
of everyone else just now.'

We are going to Scotland, too, with the
Farmers, who have never left London, as far
as I can make out, since their father died,'
said Liza ; * then I shall go to Ireland and
Wales, I think; but I would just as soon
stay in London, it is far more interesting,
after all.'

VOL. II. b

You couldn't do it, Liza,' exclaimed Mrs.
Verney ; ' everybody will be away, and the
streets will smell of drains and cabbages,
and be full of foreigners. Even now all
the shops have begun to sell off, and there
isn't one window in Eegent Street that does
not give one the horrors to look at ; for
even where they don't have those disgusting
sales going on, they put all the things they
can't sell us in the window to attract the
parsons' wives and the country cousins who
have begun to swarm. Whatever has put
this notion into your head ? '

Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Verney ; I said I
was going to Scotland,' answered Liza, smiling
at her companion's vehemence. ' You shall
not be compelled to gaze at last season's
bonnets or the country cousins. Still,
London out of the season must surely be
worth knowing too. At present I have only
seen her company side.'

1 Here comes someone who knows all
sides,' said Mr. Kennedy, pointing to Mr.
Willoughby, who came towards them. ' I
wonder you and he are not better friends,
Miss Standen, although I confess truly he
bores me consumedly, my wife swears by
him, and she is a very good judge indeed
of the male sex.'

She proved herself so, I suppose you
would intimate, when she married you ? '
asked Liza. ' Ah ! Mr. Willoughby  how is
it that you are frivolous enough to come to
these haunts of foolish fashion ? ' she added,
turning to him and shaking hands ; ' I always
believed you rose superior to such a waste
of time.'

Nothing is waste of time such a morning
as this, save sitting and stewing indoors,'
interrupted Mr. Kennedy. ' I only wish
you could sec the work of art that stands
neglected on my ease ! yet there it is all

VOL. n. u 2

by itself, and I have come out to take the
air.'

And look after the heiress ? ' asked Mrs.
Verney satirically.

I should have thought puns were beneath
Mrs. Verney' s fine intellect,' said Roger
Willoughby, taking a chair by Liza's side.
Still, if Mr. Kennedy can leave his picture
and Mrs. Kennedy, such excuse as suffices
for him may surely do for me. I have
nothing at all to leave save Whitechapel,
and that in July begins to pall. Well, I
suppose by this time next week we shall
all be in Scotland together, except you,
Kennedy  where will you be ? '

Enjoying my yearly honeymoon in Switzerland,
of course,' answered Mr. Kennedy, much
entertained at Liza's expression when she
heard of Roger's intention of going to Scotland
too. ' Now I am wise in my generation,'
he added laughing; 'and in consequence,

life never bores me as it bores Miss
Standen, or wearies me as it does Roger,
or disgusts me as it does Mrs. Verney. I
don't yearn, or worry, or care a bit for anything
outside my own high art mansion, and
every year I cover my family up, figuratively,
at Ramsgate, or some equally salubrious spot,
and leave them to vegetate in the care of a
maiden sister, and off Hilda and I trot to
Switzerland, where I drink in enough of that
wonderful air to carry me over my months
of work, winding myself up there, so to
speak, for all the realities of life. I won't
have any letters, and I have brought Hilda
up so beautifully that she is quite happy
with a weekly telegram from Aunt Sarah
to say that the darling children are quite
well, though her faith was shaken a little
bit by discovering that, despite the usual
bulletin, the dear things got through measles
quite comfortably one year while we were

away ; but there never was any danger, and
as she did not know she was quite comfortable.'


You evidently believe in " what the eye
does not see"' said Liza. 'What a pity
papa never met you ! He never would
credit we could see and know too much ;
and I believe Mr. Willoughby shares his
ideas.'

'No, indeed, I do not,' said Eoger emphatically.
' If you will forgive me for
saying so, Miss Standen, I must declare my
belief that Sir Marmaduke directed his eyes
only towards one side of the picture of life,
and that the very darkest. Now there are
two sides to that as well as to everything
else, and I often long to show you the
other one

1 That is only to be seen from the top of
the Swiss mountains struck in Mr.
Kennedy. k Once there, you will believe

in anything and everything, Miss Stanclen.
After all, happiness and content are a mere
matter of constitution. You can exorcise all
the blue devils in the world if you follow my
example and lay in a stock of hygiene.'

I never had a clay's illness in my life,'
answered Liza, laughing. ' Your theory will
not hold water.'

Nor I, that I can recollect,' said Mrs.
Verney, smiling too ; ' and I, too, have been
in Switzerland. Yet I confess myself generally
weary of life, and most thoroughly convinced
of the hollowness of everything, more
especially of society as at present constituted.'


'Ah! you and Miss Standen are like babies
who find life a blank after a ball-supper,
which has replaced the ordinary mutton-chop
and rice-pudding regime of the nursery,'
said Mr. Kennedy. < You both of you have
had nothing to do but enjoy yourselves ever

since you were born, which is the most fatal
of all diseases. Hard work seasons life forme
and for Willoughby, and in consequence
life is to me like a series of pictures  a most
wonderfully interesting panorama always
passing before me day by clay. Why, when
I get up in the morning I could shout for joy
to think of what may happen before I seek
my pillow again.'

'But nothing ever does happen,' said Liza
wearily. ' Oh ! of course,' she added hastily,
as she caught the expression of Mr.
Kennedy's face, ' I mean nothing extraordinary
happens. Cornwall seemed dull
enough, but this continual round of sham
gaiety seems to me a little duller even than
that ; and as to hard work, Mr. Kennedy,
yours must be the reverse of hard. I only
wish I, too, could paint, or write, or sing, ordo
any one thing; as it is, I only exist,
spend money, eat expensive food, and get

through my time as best I can. I want an
object

Come to Whitechapel ; there are objects
enough there to employ you, and a hundred
more,' interrupted Mr. Willoughby. ' I can
promise you any amount of work there.'

Don't listen to the voice of the tempter,'
said Mr. Kennedy hastily; 'for if you did, you
would never know five minutes' peace of
mind again. With your love of beauty you
would suffer agonies over the wickedness of,
say, Commercial Street, and the frightful
garments and ugly sinful faces; while you
would be worn to death in trying to save
individuals who are much happier without a
conscience, and whose present heaven of
sufficient gin could hardly be improved by
a promise of another distant one, to be
obtained by a religious sticking to water and
the chill advantages of virtue. At present,
if they are wicked, drunken, and dirty, they

don't realise it and are happy; whereas, if
you take away their drink and their eccentric
notions of mine and thine, what do you give
them ? Were I they, I'd rather be left alone;
at all events, they enjoy themselves, and
knowing nothing better do not desire it.
Better try Switzerland air first, Miss
Standen, then if you feel bored you can try
Whitechapel.'

'Your theories are remarkably plausible,
Kennedy,' said Roger Willoughby smiling;
but they are but theories after all ; beside
which, you must be quite sure this world is
the end of everything. I have always a
horrible idea following me about, that in a
future existence the sins, sufferings, and
cruelties of the world will be laid at our door,
and of us will be demanded these lost souls.
If this be the case I want to be prepared with
my answer ; and if there be no other life 
and this I cannot allow for a moment even in

this frivolous place  yet I have the satisfaction
of knowing I have tried my utmost to do
something for the good of humanity.'

'But I maintain you have only made
humanity unhappier than it was before you
showed it its lost condition,' said Mr.
Kennedy. 'where ignorance is bliss,"
you know, "tis folly to be wise."

What is happiness ? ' asked Liza
dreamily.

Ah ! that is indeed a difficult question to
answer,' said Mr. Kennedy ; ' and I venture
to predict that not one of us here would
answer that question in the same manner.
Now look at that girl,' he said, pointing to a
pretty girl on horseback who was passing at the
moment, and who was blushing and smiling
as she listened to her companion's talk ; ' I
daresay she is perfectly happy ; but I happen
to know that about Tr avers, the fellow she is
talking to, that would take the gilt off her

gingerbread ; in a day or two my news
of him will be public property, then I
venture to say she will not think talking
to Travers the greatest happiness in the
world.'

Still, she is happy now,' said Mrs. Yerney,
and that is something. I am not as great a
success as I could wish, yet I am truly
thankful when I remember some days in my
life, that no one can take away from me.
My advice to everyone is this : in your youth
possess yourself of a series of pictures on
which you can look comfortably from the
arm-chair of age. It does not matter in the
least that you discover that you were being
deceived after the picture is once in your
possession. You forget that in time, and
only recollect it as a whole ; in fact, as you
remember some beautiful painting. After
all, happy or miserable, it is something to
have had a past.'

Unless ghosts haunt it,' said Mr.
Willoughby, looking straight at her ; ' then
I can imagine a past is not quite an unalloyed
joy.'

My ghosts are all laid, thank goodness,
which is another argument in favour of being
born without a conscience,' answered Mrs.
Verney quietly, returning his gaze. ' Now
my idea of happiness is to be well dressed, to
be young, pretty, to have been married, so
that no one can taunt you with being an old
maid, and yet not to be encumbered by a
husband ; to have heaps of money and
admirers, and more engagements than you
can fulfil; to be able to sleep without chloral,
and to have a fine and healthy appetite.
Needless to add, happiness and I have shaken
hands and parted ; still, " it is better to have
loved and lost," you know ; and when life
looks peculiarly crooked to me, I decline to
contemplate the present, and instead look

back. No one can deprive me of that joy, at
all events.'

1 You are describing a heathen's paradise,
and yet I believe you are regular in your
attendance at St. Barnabas' ? ' said Mr.
Willoughby, feeling as if he must get up and
leave the party to themselves, and yet
anxious to see what part Liza would take in
the discussion.

Oh, no ; indeed not ; I go to St. Margaret's,'
said Mrs. Verney, shrugging her
shoulders slightly. ' Why not ? I like the
music. The world ordains church to be the
proper place on Sundays ; and then I get my
best ideas there too. There is nothing at St.
Margaret's to disturb one ; at St. Barnabas'
they are in such deadly earnest. I went
there but once, and the sermon gave me a
nightmare. I agree with Mr. Kennedy in
what he said about your Whitechapel friends,
Mr. Willoughby ; I am quite content with my

mental station, and I don't want to be pulled
out of it, even into a clearer atmosphere.'

Mrs. Yerney is like the Italian beggars,
who like to roll themselves in their rags and
lie in the sunshine,' said Mr. Kennedy. ' I
agree with her. How thankful I am that I,
too, have outlived my conscience, and that I
never want to do anything but sit in the sun
and be warm. I think, after all, that is my
idea of happiness : to lie on one's back in a
lovely garden and stare up into the infinite
depths and fastnesses of the wonderful
sky. And yet, I don't know,' he added, after
a moment's pause, ' when I begin to stare I
generally begin to think ; and, after all,
thinking is trying to the nerves. I remember
how I started in life and all I meant to do 
bah !  evidently I am run down and must
be off to Switzerland. Come, Miss Standen,
break through your silence before I go, and
tell me your idea of happiness.'

I do not believe I know enough of what
it means to say what would make me
thoroughly happy,' answered Liza, carefully
weighing her words ; ' but then I am so
heavily handicapped, you know, Mr. Kennedy.
At present I think I should like to have been
one of a large family, with a good mother
and a father of whom we were all proud. I
should like to have been carefully taught
what all children are taught. I should love
to believe in all the faith that I can only
laugh at now as an exploded superstition.
All passes, all dies, all fades. I want to hold
on where I can get help, to find one true
honest person in whom I can believe, and I
pine for some one phase of being or doing
that does not disappear the moment it is
touched. I want to be happy always, not to
enjoy your panorama, Mr. Kennedy, or to
merely possess Mrs. Verney's picture gallery;
I want real things, real people, real truth.

Where shall I find all this ? Shall I ever find
it ? If I do, then I shall stand still and declare
this is happiness.'

Or this is heaven,' said Mr. Willoughby
in a low voice.

I see Whitechapel looming largely before
you,' interrupted Mr. Kennedy lightly, and
puffing the smoke from a scented cigarette
into the hot drowsy air. ' Then I shall bid
good-bye to my friend, who will vanish from
my ken like the smoke from this little
acquaintance of mine has just done. I feel
dejected, beaten, crushed. Here have I at
great sacrifice done my best to make of you
a festive, lightly joyous creature like myself,
and now you fail me  won't rise to the
occasion in the least. It is hard, very
hard.'

I am too heavily weighted to rise anywhere,'
replied Liza sadly. 'I ask so little of
the world, and that little I cannot obtain 

VOL. II. c

only happiness, only security, only truth 
yet I am denied.'

Why bother about truth ? ' asked Mr.
Kennedy ; ' there really is no such thing,
except in the abstract ; even colour, your
god and mine, is not true in the strict sense
of the word; blue, for example, on examination,
is not really blue, but grey, or green,
or black, according as you look at it ; and yet
blue is a lovely and delightful sight and one
we need not analyse. Society is the same
thing, so are people. What does it matter
what they really are, so long as they are
amusing, nice to look at, and pleasant companions
? Besides, no one is really one true
creature. How can we be, when we are made
up, as it were, out of all the scraps and bits
of character inherited from all our ancestors ?
I can't help, for example, my uncle George
showing himself occasionally, neither is it
my fault if a bit of aunt Anne makes me a

coward. I am not an original work of art,

but a patchwork quilt made from snippets

and shreds of other people, some of whom

were nice, others nasty. Think out this idea,

Miss Standen, it will be a nice occupation

for you, and will explain a great deal of the

whims and addresses we come across in our

friends. If, for example, I feel John Smith

has changed to me, I reflect for a moment

that some other component part of John

Smith has met my gaze instead of the bit I

am accustomed to, and instead of feeling hurt

I wait a bit until that ancestor has had his

turn  I have never known the original John

Smith to fail me, if I gave him time enough ;

it's only a question of time.'

'Yours is a most comfortable theory and

most impossible,' said Mr. Willoughby. ' You

do away with the doctrine of freewill

altogether.'

Exactly so, and with all other doctrines
vol. n. c 2

too,' replied Mr. Kennedy. < Come, Miss
Standen, don't you feel very much obliged tome
? have I not supplied a hidden want ? I
see Mrs. Yerney is with me, and is already
thinking how she can reward me for this
brilliant inspiration . '

I am not one bit grateful, not one bit
said Liza flushing. ' Your theory would
take away every chance I have of making a
good thing of my life.'

There is yet another side to the picture,'
said Koger Willoughby, who had evidently
been thinking deeply over Mr. Kennedy's
idea. ' Our ancestors may be used up in our
composition, but that does not prevent us
from being original works of art, any more
than the fact that you use colours common
to all artists prevents your pictures from
being new. There are no new materials in
cooking, but one's dinner entirely depends
on how these are manipulated. Then, too,

it ought to be easier for us to manage our
lives, if we recognise in ourselves our ancestors'
characteristics. For example, I might
say, Oh ! clear me, uncle Richard's temper
is turned on, and indulgence in that landed
uncle Richard in gaol ; or aunt Jane's
crabbed tongue, speaking through me, should
remind me where aunt Jane found herself at
the end of her life. I venture to say, that a
proper study of what we are likely to inherit,
and, in fact, the materials we possess as a
stock-in-trade, are far more likely to result in
success than failure. Do you see my side
of the picture, Miss Standen ? '

Yes, quite well ; and I am very grateful
to you for showing it to me,' said Liza
brightly ; ' for now I begin to see light ahead.
I have been so depressed by my ancestors
that I have never seemed to have had any
energy to face my future ; now I shall only
look upon them as so many finger-posts.

'Pointing you straight to the slums of
London interrupted Mr. Kenned 7 , with a
theatrical groan. ' I see you are bent on
being converted. Only promise me this, goto
Switzerland first  try that ; your blue
devils will vanish like lightning, and then
you will become a reasonable being  a nice
conventional society damsel once more.'

I don't believe I ever was that in my
happiest moments,' said Liza laughing.

'No, perhaps not. All your nineteenth
century maidens go at life with a sledgehammer,'
replied Mr. Kennedy sententiously.
You are in such deadly earnest, and you want
to know everything. Now a girl should be
content to be, to visit, to enjoy. Thanks to
railways, radicalism, and free thought, everyone
wants to know the why and wherefore of
everything, and society resembles nothing so
much as a lot of children picking their toys
and watches to pieces to see how they are

made ; and then, when their playthings and
ornaments are demolished and spoiled
beyond the power of anyone to restore them,
they turn round and beat their eiders for not
preventing the mischief they had forbidden.
You should be content to look pretty and to
live, Miss Standen. Don't go into the
whys and wherefores of life. Now Hilda
never does, she hasn't time.'

But I have,' persisted Liza ; * and I can't
help thinking. I remember as a child trying
to make my mind a blank, and resolutely
resolving not to think about anything ; but I
could not manage it, the thoughts came
crowding along, each bearing its own particular
puzzle in its hand.'

There is only one cure for you  marriage,
and dozens of boys and girls,' replied Mr.
Kennedy, rising and stretching himself;
which reminds me the young barbarians at
home will be awaiting me. Now, Miss

Standen, before we part, promise me to try
nature and the Swiss air. I am confident
that half your doubts and fears come from
dyspepsia.'

'What a disagreeable notion,' replied Liza,
rising too. ' Well, anyhow, we shall meet
again before we all fly away ; but if we do
not, I will promise you to do my best to
enjoy my holiday, and both Mrs. Verney and
Mr. Willoughby shall help me.'

I think you will scarcely find that work,"
said Mr. Kennedy in a low voice, glancing
towards the two people mentioned. ' If ever
I saw natural born enemies I see them now ;
yet, mark my words, Miss Standen, Eoger,
with all his nonsense, is the safer guide of
the two ; but, of course, he is a man and unmarried.
However, you know you can
always fall back upon me,' and so saying,
and bidding farewell all round, Mr. Kennedy
sauntered away to his roast mutton, while

the others made their way back slowly to
Eaton Square, Liza remarking plaintively 

"After all, it is no good discussing anything;
we only tack round and round, or else
branch away endlessly from our first subject.
I wish I need never think. I feel inclined to
envy the idiot, who can simply rest and not
experience anything. Vanity of vanities 
all is vanity ! '

The only cure for that is work,' replied
Roger. ' When you find you cannot bear the
emptiness of your life any more send for me,
I will give you plenty to do But Liza shook
her head gaily, and ran into the house
followed by Mrs. Verney and Roger ; and in
winding up the end of the season's gaieties,
and making plans for Scotland, she soon
forgot the mood that had possessed her,
though neither Mrs. Verney nor Roger did.

SINGED WINGS.

A year had swiftly rolled by since Liza
Standen had left Bridgeporth, and once more
November fogs and mist lay over everything,
and made even London appear dull and
gloomy; while in the country, dripping ram
and softly falling leaves drove everyone back
to their winter quarters, who preferred being
amused in town, to slowly stagnating among
dead foliage and damp depression, simply
because no one who was anyone was supposed
to return to civilisation before Christmas.

The Eaton Square people had come back
almost with the first flight of winter swallows

the Misses Fairer nervously anxious to
be safely ensconced by their own fireside,
which they had never left before for so many
years; Mrs. Verney worn to a shadow, as
she expressed it, with the effort it had been
to her to keep alive at all ; and Liza Standen
tired, depressed, and unhappily conscious,
at last, that she was possessed of something
beyond her mere existence  a something
that other people called a soul and she her
intellect, yet was under either name a distinct
and separate thing that began to demand
urgently some other food than the pernicious
aliment Sir Marmaduke had so lavishly
provided, or the foolish round of gaiety and
change which had so soon palled upon her.
She had never again visited Dreewood, and
was quite satisfied with occasional letters
from the Doctor, who invariably reported
no change in Lady Standen' s condition;
and disappointed in the mother, in whose

sanity she had believed more than she quite
liked to confess, and to whose companionship
she had looked forward as something to
live for ; she was restlessly and uneasily
conscious that a long stretch of years might
be before her, leading but to the grave, and
rich in nothing, save gathered experiences of
man's wickedness and woman's foolishness,
and the utter uselessness of goodness, that
seemed called into being simply to be
imposed upon.

In her little room in Eaton Square, Liza
began to pass some truly terrible hours of
mental suffering. Her soul appeared to be
in the position of a limb that had been
bent and bound into an unnatural shape
in babyhood, and on being released, was so
warped and undeveloped as to be practically
useless, the while growing pains shot here
and there, rending the nerves and causing
acute agony. And while she pondered on

what she might have been, had she possessed
the ordinary education of an English girl,
she could not avoid feeling more bitterly
than ever how her father's unnatural education
had separated her from the rest of the
world, and had, as it were, put a mark upon
her that nothing on earth could ever wipe
out.

It was the hopelessness of it all that
seemed to take life and energy from her.
Seeing light ahead, she yet realised that
she could never reach it ; and sometimes
she would suffer such real and positive agony
that she would well nigh force herself to
believe that her mother's curse had descended
on her, and that she, too, was bound to
follow her into the paths of mental darkness
and obscurity.

At such times as these, Mrs. Verney was
worse than useless, and the Misses Farrer
were also too weak to be of service, and

could only shrink back from the wild talk
and bold questioning about subjects that are
usually handled with kid gloves, but that
were really cries for help, had they been
only able to understand a mind that had
never had the sweet and gentle training that
had been theirs, or learned the lessons every
child learns as insensibly as it drinks in the
golden summer air, or absorbs the atmosphere
of affection that is its from its birth.
And unable to obtain assistance, the girl
spent clays and hours alone reading books
and devouring literature that seemed born
solely to raise doubts and cast shadows on
the faith, in order that someone else might
write another volume or two to bring back
matters into the plain old paths of peace,
from whence no one need ever stray, unless
they really desire to do so.

Yet, gazing boldly forward, Liza saw that
not one of the so-called followers of the

Bible ever really lived the life sketched out
for them as the perfect life. And tiring of
mere controversy, and yearning for some
higher help than that obtainable from books,
she felt inclined to give it all up and quietly
slip out of a life that wearied her, the while
it was agonising to her ; and was only deterred
from doing so because, at present, there were
one or two amusing complications in her
friends' existences that she would like to
see solved, and because of the curious, painful
shrinking that the best amongst us feels
from the mere touch of the cold and bitter
waters of death.

Perhaps Eoger Willoughby was the only
creature on earth who understood Liza  as
well as any mortal could who was not aware
of all that she only could know  and believing
most strongly himself in the divine excellence
of work, turned his mind, as much as he
could, towards providing her with occupation.

Knowing she was rich he had no compunction
in putting his hand boldly into her purse,
hoping, in time, to be able to sufficiently
interest her in his plans to draw her yet
more fully into the field, where the harvest
is ever ready and the labourers fewer than
few.

Enthusiastic, deeply and brightly religious,
in the very broadest sense of the word, Eoger
Willoughby boldly spent his life and the small
modicum of money he possessed in working
for humanity; and though constantly disappointed,
his fine spirits and good health
carried him on in his daily fight, leaving
him, indeed, content to know that though
failure and success were often teaching on
each other's heels, success was to be won,
and that each failure taught something almost
as useful as success itself would have been.
And had Liza only been his sister, or even
brought up on the same lines as himself,

he would have felt that in her he had a
valuable ally, because of her fearless disregard
of the world's opinion, where now
he saw but another soul in need of more
than he could give it.

Mrs. Verney, too, was much against Mr.
Willoughby, as, of course, she knew that
marriage was the usual end of such a friendship
as both Koger and Liza would have
gladly formed ; but she never lost an opportunity
of sneering at Eoger's plain face and
small means, and of insinuating that Liza's
fortune was Eoger's real attraction ; while
Eoger, on his side, remembered the money,
and would have held back had not his
common sense also informed him very plainly
that Liza Standen was no wife for him.

One day, when Liza had been indulging
in a special fit of what her companion called
blue devils,' a large roll of papers arrived
for her inspection, sent by Mr. Willoughby,

VOL. II. D

and Mrs. Verne 7 , glad of any excuse for
breaking in upon her, brought them up into
the pretty little chamber that was set apart
for her sitting-room, and throwing the parcel
into her lap, said, with a laugh : ' More work ;
or,. I should rather say, more links in the
chain.'

What chain ? ' asked Liza, looking up
from the book she was studying with knitted
brows ; and mechanically taking the roll she
began to undo it.

The chain that binds you hard and fast
to the godly Roger, of course,' said Mrs.
Verney lightly, sinking into a low chair close
to Miss Standen, and holding one end of
the roll as it was opened out, to enable her
to see what it was. ' Ah ! ' she added, ' it
is as I thought ; plans for wash-houses or
meeting-houses. Well ! Liza, all I ask of
you is to give me plenty of time to look
about me. I can never expect to be as

happy as I have been here. Still, you will,
I am sure, give me a character, and that
is something to possess in this evil thinking
world of ours, and I may find another young
lady in want of a bear-leader. I only hope
I shall not be as disappointed in her as I
have been in you.'

Liza looked at Mrs. Verney in amazement.
Have you gone mad, too ? ' she said. ' I
cannot for the life of me understand what
you mean; neither do I comprehend why
you should be disappointed in me because I
want to spend some of my money in benefiting
my poorer brethren. This is a washhouse
and swimming-bath place for the
East End. There is nothing specially godly
about soap and water that I can see, nor
any reason why the erection of such a
place should disappoint you

" Cleanliness is next to godliness," ' said
Mrs. Yerney, with a groan of despair ; ' and

VOL. II. d 2



I am disappointed because I cannot make
you like other girls. Here are you with an
exceptionally lucky bringing-up, unhampered
by any foolish scruples, not even troubled, as
most of us are, by remains of superstition
and fragments of religion, and yet you will
not enjoy your life. We have not been to a
theatre since our return from the wilderness,
and as for a ball, why I am convinced I have
forgotten how to dance. When I go out I
shall have to buy one of those programmes I
read of the other clay, that have the list of
dances on one side and full descriptions how
to dance them on the other, and even then I
am not at all sure I shall not feel and look
like a log of wood.'

You are some few years older than I am
said Liza, looking straight at her, while Mrs.
Yerney murmured ' Only a very few, dear
deprecatingly.

'Well; only a very few added Liza,

smiling. * Still, in them you have been to
more of these sorts of gaieties than I have
ever thought of. Don't you ever get tired of
them ? I must confess that a year of
pleasing myself and enjoying myself has only
resulted in a heap of dead-sea apples, fair
enough to look at, but dust and ashes at the
core. I am sick of it all, Mrs. Verney, sick
of it all ! '

1 Because you crush your apples, and are
not content to merely look at the rosy delicious
things,' replied Mrs. Verney brightly ;
that's the curse of this present century of
ours. We're all in such deadly earnest, we
can't do a thing without philosophising about
it and going deep down into the root of the
matter. We nineteenth century folk can't
even appreciate a fine day, unless we have
some idea how the sunbeams are made, or
what effect they have upon the Gulf Stream.
Well; I don't mean that quite,' she added,

as she caught Liza's look of amusement at
the queer jumble she was making ; ' but you
know what I mean. Be a butterfly, Liza ;
enjoy your youth, your money, your life, and
don't be always yearning after the infinite ;
and, above all, leave the poor alone ; let the
parsons look after them  that's what they are
paid for, you know.'

Or unpaid for,' said Liza, smiling at Mrs.
Verney's earnestness. 'No, Mrs. Yerney, I
am not religious, and I do not want to be.
I have never felt the want of a creed, but I
do want the world to be a little cleaner, and
the poor to be better fed and housed. I
can't find happiness among the rich, I shall
now seek it in Seven Dials.'

Tennyson, in one of his finest poems,
remarks that, "the poor in a loom is bad," '
answered Mrs. Verney sententiously. ' My
dear Liza, believe me you will not find
happiness even among the birds and beasts

and fishes in the Dials, and that probably all
you will discover will be typhoid fever or
small-pox. Give it up ; listen to my superior
wisdom, and be gay, happy, and merry. You
will never be one or the other if you persist
in " slumming " ; besides, the rage is over, it
is not even fashionable now, it is only "real
horrid." Leave it to the parsons, that's my
last word. If they haven't money, give them
some by all means, but leave it to their discretion
how it is spent.'

Don't you see that it has been left only
to the parsons,' said Liza eagerly; ' and inconsequence
nothing has been done. Instead
of making life better for the poor things,
they have pointed to a heaven and promised
them rewards after death for all they have
endured here. Now I propose to sweep away
this misty future, and to give them here the
means of making their lives better and
happier. If they were not engaged in

looking into the clouds, they would make
what they are sure of a better thing. I
mean to preach this, and help them to bringdown
heaven on earth without waiting for
death

Your new Evangel is fine indeed,' exclaimed
Mrs. Verney laughing ; * but Liza,
don't you remember our talk with Mr.
Kennedy just before we went away; don't you
recollect he said that the gin-palace at the
corner is much more likely to be their
heaven than any other ? Give them gin, my
dear, gin galore ; and then I am sure they
will bless you for ever.'

It is no good talking to you, you are
nothing but an epicurean,' said Liza rather
impatiently. ' I do not believe you ever had
a hope or aspiration in your life beyond a
becoming bonnet, a good dinner, or as much
admiration as you could get.'

Now see how you misjudge me,' replied

her companion, striking an attitude of heroic
fervour. ' When I was seventeen I was
devote; I yearned for heaven; I pined to
help my fellow-creatures ; I wrote poetry 
why in my desk at this moment I have a
marvellous effusion, of which the first line is
a fair sample. It begins thus : "I would do
something great, Lord, for Thee ! " Yes,
I, Violet Yerney, wrote that ; there are about
five hundred lines, all in the same vein.
Now, Liza, I hope you will not doubt me
again, for if you do, I vow I will read you
the whole poem, and if that does not make
you believe in me I don't know what
will

I will take your word for it,' answered
Liza, once more looking at the plans. ' I
wish you had those same sentiments now,
Mrs. Verney, for then you would help me
about all this.'

I will not help you, because it is bad for

you. Everyone of us has gone through the
phase you are going through,' replied Mrs.
Yerney, rather more seriously than was her
wont. ' You have it later in life than most,
and so your attack is worse ; it's like measles,
you know : have them early and they are soon
over ; take them late and the chances are you
will have a serious illness. Now you have the
mental measles, Liza; shake them off, he-come
wild, and gay, and unthinking, and I
promise you happiness. All this bother
arises from pious Eoger ; listen to him, and
you'll be a staunch supporter of the Establishment
before you know where you are. I
do most heartily wish we had never met
him.'

I can't say I agree with you,' answered
Liza with spirit ; ' I never feel so happy as
when I have been talking to him and
planning with him, and yet there is not
one word of religion passes between us,

though sometimes, when I look at him
and think of his unselfish life, I am tempted
to say, " almost thou persuades me to be a
Christian." '

1 knew it, I knew it ! 'tis love for Koger, not
fervour for one's brethren, after all. When
she looks at him, she says,' said Mrs.
Verney, apostrophising some unseen individual,
'when she looks at him. Good
heavens ! now if there is one thing that
would prevent my wishing to resemble
Righteous Koger, it is his appearance  to
say nothing of his boots and his trousers !
I never can make out,' she added plaintively,
' the connection there exists between
religious aspirations and plain faces ; between
extreme Christianity and terrible clothes.
But it does exist, and so for that reason, if
for nothing else, I should decline to join
with the salt of the earth  it is always
contained in such hideous vessels. But if

you can look at Eoger and want to be like
him, then it is hopeless, and all I can do
with my last breath is to beg of you to be
married in a decent dress, and not in the
simple but remarkably unbecoming garb of
the Salvation Army; just for my sake, as a
very last concession to my prejudices, you
know

" If your head does not ache," as my old
uncle used to say, 'until I marry, you will
have a life remarkably free from your pet
ailment, " ' replied Liza, flushing with annoyance,
and beginning to roll up her
plans.

4 But you must see for yourself your
conduct is suspicious,' persisted Mrs.
Verney. ' Seriously, Liza, I want to save
you ; do listen to me ! I think you are like
Garrick, between tragedy and comedy  I
being the latter and Mr. Willoughby tragedy
in her darkest cloak. Be bright and happy

and jolly with me, and don't bother about
the lower classes; they are all very welland
we couldn't get on without them to kill
our meat, and cook our dinners, and so on ;
but do believe me when I say we don't want
them in any other capacity, and I am very
sure they don't want us. If you believe in
heaven, you can make steps up to it out of
baths and wash-houses, if you like; but as
you don't, and don't even want to believe
in it, come with me and let tragedy pass
out of your life. See ! I will rack my brains
for amusement for you. What do you say
to a voyage to America, a winter in Algiers ?
You possess Allan's carpet in your wealth ;
only say the word, and we will try fresh fields
and pastures new.'

I am too cat-like to contemplate anything
save my own fireside in November,' replied
Liza, rising and looking out of the window ;
besides, there is the Fothergill wedding and

a thousand things before me that I must
go through as I have promised. I seem to
have lost all wish to travel ; I only want
peace and happiness, Mrs. Verney. I only
wish I could buy them, then my money
would be worth having.'

So you can, only you won't,' said
Mrs. Verney. ' Would that I were in your
shoes, I would astonish the world, I can tell
you.'

You can't astonish the world of London
very much now-a-days on ,5,000 a year,'
replied Liza ; ' besides, I hate being talked
about ; one must either be very lovely, very,
very rich, or very wicked indeed to astonish
London, and I am not the first two, and I
have no yearnings after the last item in the
programme, which, after all, you did not enjoy
too much, did you ? '

Because my wickedness was also foolishness.
I went back instead of up,' answered

Mrs. Verney coolly. ' If I had left my earl
for a prince, I should have enjoyed myself
mightily, but I went after a curate. I told
you why. I need not repeat the story,
except as another proof how fatal it is to
bother about one's soul, or try to be good.
I should have swallowed River's eccentricities
and kept my coronet, if only I had had my
wits about me ; but I wanted to be good,
and in consequence here I am, a paid
companion instead of a countess. Be
warned, therefore, Liza, or else some day
you will find yourself a Sister of Mercy, or
some such idiotic individual. My prescription
for your present attack of the blues
is a startling one : let us go with Mr.
Kennedy to the supper at Flora Novelle's
this evening and see life ! You know she
sent me an invitation, and Mr. Kennedy
means to go.'

But he is not going to take Mrs. Kennedy,

and he roared with laughing when you
said you meant to go,' said Liza. ' I don't
care for low company

1 It isn't low, not one bit of it ; it's only
risky and a trifle fast,' replied Mrs. Yerney.
Lord and Lady David Petersham are going
she was a De Vere, you know  and the
Barnes and Faulkner ; oh ! and a dozen
more. Come, Liza, shake off this fit of
yours ; forget the righteous one, and let
me order the carriage ; it will be something
to look forward to. You have never met
any of our leading actors and actresses, and
it will be a new experience.'

Let me ask Miss Farrer what she thinks,'
said Liza reluctantly.

Had you not better telegraph to the parson's
wife at Bridgeporth for permission ? '
asked Mrs. Verney, with a scarcely perceptible
sneer. ' Don't you know, Liza, that the
very name of actress is enough for the dear

old goodies ? they pray for us every night, I
feel convinced, when we go to the theatre ;
and you should have seen Miss Hyacinth
burn a play-bill I accidentally left out on the
dining - room table, it was as good as the
play itself ! Now I did think you were above
such nonsense ; you certainly were a year
ago, when you engaged me, but you are
terribly changed from what you were then.
I wish we had not come into this house, the
atmosphere of it is enough to convert a
ballet-girl.'

Well, order the carriage ; we can but try
your new sensation said Liza ; * only recollect
the onus of this expedition lies with you
And so saying she once more unrolled her
plans and began studying them so closely
that Mrs. Verney, having obtained her own
way, and seeing that Liza was hopeless as
regarded any more talk, went downstairs to
order the carriage, and to write a letter that

VOL. II.

would have considerably astonished Liza
could she have seen to whom it was addressed.


Whether the contemplation of the plans
and the reading of a long letter on the
subject from Mr. Willoughby had roused
Liza from her state of despondency, or
whether the thoughts of the evening's
amusement did so, she herself could
not have told ; but when she and Mrs.
Verney arrived at their destination, and
passed up the narrow staircase crowded with
plants, that led to Miss Dobelle's drawing-room,
her cheeks flushed, and she felt as
excited and happy as beforehand she had
been miserable and depressed ; and when,
after a minute's talk to her hostess  a
remarkably beautiful woman in an artistic
dress of magnificent lace and plush, made
high to the throat, and designed expressly
for her by a well-known artist  she found

herself talking to one of the foremost actors
of the day, she became so fascinated with
his talk that she quite forgot how often his
name and Miss Dobelle's had been lightly
bandied about in her hearing in connection
with each other; and also was equally oblivious
of the fact that at present neither Mi-kennedy
nor, indeed, any of the folk Mrs.
Verney had mentioned as coming, were present
in the drawing-room, which was filled
with well-dressed amusing people, whose
names were all more or less familiar to
Liza, and at whom she looked with great
interest.

If at supper the talk became fast and
furious, Liza did not comprehend in the very
least what she was assisting at. She caught
allusions she did not understand, names she
had never heard before, and whole sentences
that conveyed no meaning to her whatever.
Bursts of merry laughter were elicited by jokes

VOL. II. e 2

that were nothing whatever to her, and Liza
was more than once reminded of scraps of
school-boy talk she had heard in the Kennedy's
house, that were positively unintelligible to
anyone who was not of the particular school
patronised by the youths themselves, and
that yet appeared replete with amusement
for those who were initiated.

Presently Liza began to be bored. One
in the company, still she was not of it, she
could not join in talk she did not understand,
and Mr. Sanderson, the only person to whom
she had been introduced, had taken down a
Lady John Spencer, and had seated himself
at the head of the flower-decked table, while
Liza was some distance off, between a youthful
aspirant after dramatic fame and a good-tempered
jolly man, who was called ' Jack '
by everyone, and turned out to be a particularly
savage critic. Indeed, not only was
Mr. Homestead ' Jack,' but Miss Dobelle

was ' Flora ' and ' Flossie ' to all the company,
while Mr. Sanderson responded to
'Joe,' and Lady John to ' Juliettete'  as
she was pronounced by all the little world
around her to have been especially created to
enact Shakespeare's heroine to the admiring
world.

Lord John, a steady-going, valued member
of the Conservative government, had long-ago
ceased to have the very smallest control
over, or interest in, his wife's actions. He
did not get rid of her altogether, as he did
not want either the scandal or trouble, even
if he could have obtained a divorce on the
grounds that Lady John preferred the stage
to the domestic hearth; and he contented
himself with placing his children under the
care of his elder sister, seeing them himself
as often as he could, and trusting that advancing
age would do what he could not, and
that adverse criticism would teach his wife

that at thirty-eight it is rather hopeless to
begin a career that one of our best-known
actresses confesses should close at forty,
unless the actress be content to take old
women's parts.

At present Lady John was doing her best
to get Mr. Sanderson to produce her at his
theatre, and was smiling upon him for that
purpose, quite oblivious of the power ' darling
Flossie' held in the world behind the scenes,
even if Mr. Sanderson had not seen for himself
how utterly unfit the mother of half-a-dozen
children was to begin a career that
should more properly have been drawing to
its close. And as she only saw the courtly
complaisant actor listening to her words of
wisdom, and remembered her father-in-law,
the duke, whose strawberry leaves were made
to cover a multitude of social slips and sins,
she was quite happy, and paid no attention
whatever to anyone else, while Flora Dobelle,

sure of her power in her turn, smiled at the
vain woman, the while she wondered sadly
why she could not be content with a home
and position she, Flora Dobelle, would have
given every leaf in her crown of laurels to
have obtained and kept. For Flora had not
fallen from the high estate of womanhood
herself without some suffering; without a
fierce longing to be once more respectable and
good ; and had small patience with those who,
being born to a high estate, clean lives, and
pure hearts have not the sense to keep them,
instead of throwing them away for a shadow
for fruit that is as the apples of Sodom
in very deed and truth.

As she sat thinking, silent for a moment
among the merry crowd, she suddenly caught
sight of Liza's puzzled face.

When the girl was introduced to her, she
had taken no particular notice of her, and,
as her name was not a familiar one, had

not given her a second thought; but now
something in Liza's unfamiliar countenance
caused her to regard her intently, and
presently she beckoned her to change her
seat for one close to herself.

I Where do you spring from, I wonder ? '
she asked, when Liza, responding to the call,
had changed her place ; and when she had
told her, Miss Dobelle remarked, ' It strikes
me you don't know what you are doing by
coming here. Did no one advise you to remain
at home ? '

I I have no one to advise me,' said Liza,
with astonishment ; ' besides, excuse me, I
see no reason why I should not share this
pleasant evening's amusement.'

1 You have got your feathers early, your
wings are evidently full-fledged,' said Miss
Dobelle with a laugh; ' not many women of
your age are so destitute of advisers  of
moral sign-posts, pointing out in emphatic

language where they are to go and where
they are not to stray. Have yon none of these
positively none ? ' then, as Liza shook her
head, she said, awkwardly enough, great
actress though she undoubtedly was : ' then,
for this once, let me be your moral fingerpost,
and, inhospitable as it sounds, let me
beg of you to go home. Your wings are
strong and serviceable now  once let their
snowy plumes be singed, and they will not
be strong enough to keep you out of the
mire.'

1 Is there danger here ? ' asked Liza, ina
low voice ; * I confess I see no signs of
mire  my chaperone, too, who brought
me

You know who and what she has been ? '
asked Miss Dobelle. ' I have no wish to round
upon her ; still, I can't bear to see girls go
wrong ; it's so foolish, such a waste, and can
only end one way.'

Yes, I do know all about her,' interrupted
Liza, ' still, she has never wanted me to go
anywhere I ought not

Listen to me, Miss Standen ; half a word
should do for a clever girl like you, and I
don't want to say more against ourselves than
I need,' said Miss Dobelle earnestly. 'Ask
anyone tomorrow what they would think of
an unmarried girl who came here. I say
no more. Only take my advice, you can
come again, you know, if your world does
not object; or when you're married, if your
husband doesn't  in the meantime, slip away
now. The men are going to smoke, and so
am I and Lady John ; tell Lucy you want
your carriage, she is just outside waiting, and
I'll see after Dugarron, Yivers, or Verney  I
never can remember what she calls herself.
It's no good looking at her, she won't responds
and Miss Dobelle cast a contemptuous
glance at Mrs. Verney, who was exchanging

risky repartees with a stout, dark-haired man,
whose bon mots were popularly supposed to
be the very back-bone of a lively sporting
paper, which was scarcely seen on any table
outside a club or a public-house.

Some scraps of the talk floated across the
table to Liza, and she flushed deeply.

I see you are right, Miss Dobelle,' she said,
taking the actress's ring-laden hand in hers.
1 Good-night. I shall hope to see you again
some day.'

Any night you like, from eight to eleven,
on the boards of the Acropolis,' replied Miss
Dobelle; ' nowhere else at present. Remember
what I said before, and take care of your

wings; once singed, you know . Now slip

away, I will cover your retreat,' and so saying,
Miss Dobelle managed that Liza should pass
out into the hall and into her carriage unperceived;
while, going back into the room
almost too quickly for anyone to know she

had left it, the fun soon waxed so fast and
furious that no one, not even her companion,
noticed Liza's departure from amongst
them.

1 STRANDED ON A LEE SHORE.'

When Liza returned from her solitary walk
on the afternoon succeeding Miss Dobelle's
supper-party, she was aware that something-unforeseen
had occurred to ruffle the usual
serene atmosphere of the Farrer establishment.


There was an amount of whispering, sighing,
and shaking of heads among the old
retainers that was truly awe-inspiring; and
as Mrs. Verney was still in her room, and
had not been seen since Liza had left her at
the supper-table, Liza thought it best to at
once attack the citadel; and going into the

drawing-room, found Miss Juliettete and Miss
Hyacinth weeping softly into their pocket-handkerchiefs,
while a certain Lady Barbara
Stevenson was seated solemnly on the centre
ottoman, declaiming aloud against the licence
of the age and the evil influences of Radicalism
and Atheism, in a manner that Liza
was well accustomed to, whenever Lady
Barbara remembered her cousins in Eaton
Square, and called upon them, which, luckily
for them, was not very often.

Seeing the state of the case, although she
longed to dry poor Miss Hyacinth's gentle
tears, Liza was about to vanish in search of
her companion, when Miss Farrer hearing
her, looked out from her sheltering pocket-handkerchief,
and implored her to stay.

We have heard such dreadful news,' she
sobbed, ' and I do hope you can contradict it
all; gossip is always proverbially unreliable,
but this seems undoubtedly true,' and once

more she retired into her handkerchief and
wept.

I haven't seen a soul, nor have I caught
sight of the evening paper answered Liza;
'so I am afraid I can't contradict anything.
Has Mr. Gladstone burned Westminster
Abbey, or Chamberlain shot at the Queen ?
I gather from Lady Barbara that it is something
of the kind ; but even if they have, you
need not mind, you know. It is only what
you have all been prophesying ever since I
have known you ; and dreadful as you
would consider either event, you can always
console yourselves by saying " I told you
so"'

It is nothing public that disturbs this
serene home at present said Lady Barbara
in a deep-toned voice, that sounded as if it
came from the depths of her boots. ' It is a
private action. Why should we not go
straight to the point ?' she asked, presumably

of the chandelier, as her gaze was fixed upon
that when she made her demand. ' I hear
through my dear but misguided nephew that
he met you and Mrs. Yerney last night in
the haunts of vice ; which, bad as they undoubtedly
are for a young man, are nothing
short of perdition for us  social perdition.
But I trust you will be able to flatly contradict
Mr. Campbell's statement, and so once
more restore peace and prosperity to this unhappy
household

1 I have not the honour of knowing any
Mr. Campbell,' said Liza, 'and in consequence
I cannot possibly know what he may have
stated ; but the odds are '  (' odds are ! '
repeated Lady Barbara in a hollow whisper) 
Yes, the odds are went on Liza, taking no
notice of the interruption, ' that he means he
met us at Miss Dobelle's. If this be his
statement, Lady Barbara, I am sorry to say
that I must confirm it ; however, I saw novice

there ; but as I came away long before
supper was over, perhaps the vice arrived
after that

What Lady Barbara would have replied
will never be known, for at this moment the
door opened, and Mr. Kennedy and Koger
Willoughby were announced, while a glance
at their faces told Liza that they too had
become aware of last evening's amusement,
and in their turn had come to remonstrate
with her.

A passing thought shot through her brain,
and caused her to feel glad that Eoger himself
had not been the first to l tell of her,' as
she phrased it, and running to her two
friends, she said brightly, though a little
nervously 

Too late ! too late ! Lady Barbara's misguided
nephew has been before you. All is
known, as they say in tragedies.'

Koger heaved a sigh of relief, while Mr.

VOL. II. F

Kennedy said, far more seriously than he had
ever spoken before 

1 If I had had any conception of this, Miss
Standen, I should have talked very plainly
to you the other day ; but, on my honour, I
had no idea that Mrs. Verney was in earnest.
You have been so careful  so sensible  I
really should have as soon warned you against
going into Eegent Street alone at midnight as
against having supper at Miss Dobelle's. We
hoped to have kept the affair quiet ; in fact,
didn't believe it fora moment ; but now, I
suppose, that is impossible ; ' and he looked
at Lady Barbara in a manner that made that
good creature shake in her soft fur carriage
boots.

It is most serious indeed,' said Miss
Farrer; 'most serious. Koger, you must
advise us how to act, dear boy ; I never was
so thankful to see your face before. What
shall be done ? '

Pardon me,' struck in Liza proudly; 'but
I think I am the person to speak. In the first
place, I fail to see your right to hold a family
council over me; and in the second, I cannot
allow anything very dreadful has been done.'

1 We have no right, of course, to advise
you said Miss Farrer kindly, while Miss
Hyacinth sobbed deeply. ' You are, as you
remind us, not a member of the family, and
you are a thoroughly independent woman;
but we are fond of you, Liza, and we have
the right, after all, that superior age and
experience always gives one lady over another,
and I want to save you. It is almost
impossible for a young unmarried woman in
our circles to attend a late supper-party at
such a house as Miss Dobelle's and not be
very hardly judged by a censorious world.
Why did you leave early ? unless, as I hope,
you found the company and the talk such as
you could not countenance ? '

VOL. II. f 2

I left because Miss Dobelle herself told
me I had no business there said Liza. ' But
really and truly, Miss Farrer, nothing took
place that would have shocked even you; at
least  at least,' and here Liza faltered, remembering
the snatches of talk she had
caught across the table ; while Mr. Kennedy,
to save her farther embarrassment,
said 

We won't discuss what went on ; we all
know pretty well, and we can only be glad to
hear your hostess was so judicious ; but what
I must say now, Miss Standen, will, I am
sure, not appear harsh or unkind. We have all
held our tongues about Mrs. Verney, but you
must see for yourself after this that she is
not a proper companion for you. She knew
what she was doing when she took you to
such a house, and I can but think she had
some desperate scheme in her head. She
must have positively arranged to compromise

you, though why, I can't for the life of me
think.'

1 can,' said Lady Barbara in a deeper
voice than before, while she looked blandly
at Mr. Willoughby, who up to this moment
had kept silence. ' Mrs. Verney is a companion;
she will lose her situation with a
rich lady if that lady should marry. No one
will be anxious to marry a young person who
frequents supper-parties at an actress's house
there you have the whole thing in a nut-shells


She may have thought all this,' said
Roger impulsively ; ' but pardon me, Lady
Barbara, if I suggest that no one who really
knows Miss Stand en could suggest that even
such an unhappy slip as last night's would
have compromised her. She is too innocent,
too fearless; all will unite, believe me, in
blaming Mrs. Verney and in believing in Miss
Standen's ignorance of what she was doing.'

My dear Willoughby, your ideas are
Utopian,' interrupted Mr. Kennedy, knitting
his brows ; ' no one will believe in
anything as long as that woman remains in
Miss Stances society. You must get rid of
her at once, Miss Stanclen. I blame myself,
and so does Willoughby too, for ever allowing
her to remain here without warning the Miss
Farmers about her.'

What is she ? ' asked Miss Farrer in a
bewildered manner, while Lady Barbara
looked eagerly at Mr. Kennedy, hoping to be
told any fresh piece of scandal, a food on
which the dame lived largely.

It is no matter what Mrs. Verney is,' said
Liza haughtily ; ' she is my friend  a badly-used,
sorely-tried woman  and I shall stick
by her. Please hold your tongue about her,
Mr. Kennedy, and you too, Mr. Willoughby.
I shall trouble this house no more, and I will
thank you to forget both of us as soon as you

can. I shall go abroad, where, I believe,
people are not quite so ready to believe evil
of their fellow creatures as they are here, and
you and the world can forget us as soon as
ever you like,' and so saying Liza was about
to leave the room, when Miss Farrer rose,
and taking her hand, drew her to her gently,
and said 

Liza, you and I have now lived together
for rather more than a year, and you must
know that Hyacinth and I have your welfare
at heart ; who and what Mrs. Verney is we
will never inquire ; but I ask you carefully to
think over what her conduct last night must
mean, and then see if she be a fit friend for
you. She may have been a sinner, and you
may, in your generosity of heart, have given
her that other chance that the world rightly
or wrongly denies to those who have fallen
by the way. With that we will have nothing
to do ; if it pleases you to keep your own

counsel, keep it; but, clear Liza, you have
your future before you, you must not peril
that for anyone, certainly not for anyone who
has proved herself so ungrateful. Don't see
her again, let me tell her you have decided
to part with her

Dear Miss Farrer, believe me, poor Mrs.
Verney is as innocent of any desire to keep
bad company as ever you are,' said Liza
gently. * If she had not expected to meet the
Kennedy, and some more of our friends
there, I am sure she would not have gone
to Miss Dobelle's. I have not seen her since
last night. Let me talk matters over with her,
I am sure she will be able to explain, and,
even if she cannot, I can't think that house
worse than half-a-dozen I could name,
where Lady Barbara Stevenson is an invited
guest often enough, and where you and Miss
Hyacinth often go too. I think if you remember
stories that are current about Lord

and Lady Enables, the Constants, and
many others I could name, you will not be so
hard on Miss Dobelle. The stage, too, is all
the rage just now, and much more is forgiven
genius than used to be. Now Miss Dobelle is
a genius, and any slight eccentricities she
has can be put down to that ; at all events,
she is open in her evil doings ; she does not
kiss her husband and deceive him at the
same time ; ' and Liza made a mocking
curtsey to Lady Barbara, who, on a limited
income, the extent of which was well known
to her friends, managed to dress better and
play higher than anyone else in her immediate
set.

1 This is the rising generation,' began Lady
Barbara, fixing her pince-nez on her aristocratic
nose, and looking at Liza with her own
patent, insolent stare  a stare, by-the-way,
that had subdued many a parvenu, and
reduced many a youth to silence, who otherwise

might have suggested that her ladyship's
manner of emptying his purse into her own
was not of the fairest and most honourable
description. But Liza paid no attention to
her, and was about to urge other reasons for
allowing Mrs. Yerney a loophole of escape,
when Mr. Kennedy said 

You heard me laugh when Mrs. Verney
mentioned Miss Dobelle, and you heard me
also declare I was neither going to take my
wife nor myself to Honeysuckle Lodge. I
can't understand how our names were used
at all.'

You don't often take Mrs. Kennedy anywhere,'
said Liza, innocently enough, ' and
you laugh at everything  how should I know
you were serious ; besides, I really felt little
or no interest in the matter, Mr. Kennedy.
I was tired ; Mrs. Verney bored  we wanted
a new sensation; really, it seems to me
there's a great storm in a tea cup all about

nothing; even if Miss Dobelle be as bad as all
you people make out, she has not harmed me.
I can assure you she won't ask me again  in
fact, she said as much. Nothing can really
harm me, you know ; remember my bringing
up.'

You are rising superior to that,' said
Eoger Willoughby in a low voice, coming upto
Liza and speaking in her ear ; ' forget all
your past, and don't let a false sentiment for
Mrs. Verney keep you bound in any way to
that part of your life ; my cousins and I are
alike longing to keep you with us. Send her
away  now.'

To starve ? ' asked Liza, all the warnings
that Mrs. Verney had so lavishly urged upon
her against Mr. Willoughby and the Miss
Farmers coming back to her in a flood.
Think, Mr. Willoughby, what that would
mean.'

She has proved her repentance to be a

mere empty form of words,' urged Koger;
you cannot touch pitch without being
defiled.'

Liza was too fond of Eoger and of his
cousins to remind him that her money was,
no doubt, one reason of their extreme desire
to retain her amongst them, the while she
was too suspicious to forget this as entirely as
she could wish, and she said  ' You recollect
how much there is at stake ? Don't you
think you had better forget Mrs. Yerney altogether.
I assure you I have made up my
mind  she and I don't part company on
such slight grounds as these. If she goes,
I go!'

1 My dear Liza,' burst in Mr. Kennedy
impatiently, ' listen to me, if you won't to
anyone else ; there's nothing at stake where
I am concerned, and heaven knows I am
above these mere conventionalities of life.
Miss Farrer and Lady Barbara here consider

me an artistic atheist, and a most unsafe
guide for youth; however, these little drawbacks
are in my favour, when I want to play
Mentor to your Telemachus, and should command
your attention ; and I tell you flatly,
that girls like you can't form friendships with
women like Flossie Dobelle, and at the same
time be treated by society with respect.
Once be linked with such women as that, and
you can never again be admitted into decent
company. Excuse my plain speaking, please,
Miss Standen ; desperate cases need desperate
remedies.'

Where is the desperate case,' asked Liza*
flushing deeply ; ' you are making mountains
out of mole-hills. I tell you Miss Dobelle
ordered my perambulator and goloshes and
sent me home like a baby. She has declined
ray acquaintance, and so there ends the
matter, as far as I am concerned ; do let us
forget all about it. I won't do so any more ;

please forgive me,' and she turned to Miss
Farrer and put her hands together, looking
like a child asking absolution from some
nursery fault.

My dear, I am afraid after all that has
passed, that you must part with Mrs. Yerney/
said Miss Farrer nervously, and looking at
Koger apprehensively. ' From the conversation
I have gathered '

But Liza would not allow Miss Farrer to
finish her sentence, and, looking proudly at
the company, she said decisively, ' Then there
is an end of the matter. We will leave here
as soon as I have found a place to go to ; '
and without another word, she turned and
walked in a stately manner to the door,
rushing upstairs the moment it was closed,
and flying to her own little room, where,
throwing herself down on the floor, she hid
her face in her favourite chair, crying as she
had not cried since the clay she had parted

with her last hope respecting her mother's
sanity.

Presently the door opened gently, and Mrs.
Verney, clad in a long pale pink silk tea-gown,
came quietly into the room. For a
moment she stood looking down at the girl, a
terrible dread seizing her lest Liza should be
weeping because she had made up her mind
to dismiss her for the part she had acted
the night before; and then, unable to bear the
suspense any more, she said, ' Let me know
the worst at once, dearest, but don't cry
like that ; believe me, no one can be sorrier
for last night's work than I am ; but if you
were deceived, so was I ; we are both victims
of a cruel plot  my wine was drugged, I have
only just awoke. Dear Liza, do speak ; don't
condemn me unheard.'

Liza raised her face, her eyes still raining
tears, and looked at Mrs. Verney with a smile.
I never doubted you, but the Philistines are

upon us,' she said ; * the cry is havoc, and
they have loosed the dogs of war. I have
our marching orders, Mrs. Verney, and I am
too cat-like, as I told you before, to enjoy the
prospect of uprooting as much as I ought to.'

Have they told you to leave here ? ' exclaimed
her companion, endeavouring to
conceal her joyful surprise. ' Oh ! Liza, they
never can be so foolish ; why they cut their
own throats. I can't believe they are so
thoroughly idiotic. What is the reason for
this determination ? '

Because we are pitch, and they can't touch
us without being defiled said Liza wearily ;
that's Mr. Willoughby's opinion

Did he say that of you ? ' asked Mrs. Verney
in a low eager tone of voice; 'he must be
mad  mad with rage and disappointment
over the failure of all his schemes ; of course
they urged you to remain here, and cast me
adrift?'

Yes, of course they did,' replied Liza ;
6 and equally of course I refused. Now our
plans have to be made, and I confess I cannot
bear the idea of making another home. I
had become used to all this  used to the dear,
fussy Farmers, and fond of them too ; in fact,
now I face the idea of leaving Eaton Square, I
am just discovering I am happier here than I
shall ever be elsewhere. They seem to think
I have done for myself, too, by last night's
work, and even Mr. Kennedy turned and
rent us.'

Even Mr. Kennedy ! Why, of course, Mr.
Kennedy would join in,' said Mrs. Yerney,
seating herself in Liza's chair and drawing
the girl towards her. ' Mr. Kennedy wanted
to have the monopoly of you. He was not so
careful about your reputation last season,
when he went everywhere in your train, and
caused no end of gossip.'

Oh, don't attribute evil motives to every -

VOL. II. g

one interrupted Liza, drawing herself away
from Mrs. Verney's embrace and leaning
wearily against the mantelpiece. ' I do
want to believe someone can act honestly
towards me, and really have my good at
heart. They say you took me to Miss
Dobelle's in order to compromise me. You
in your turn accuse them of mean ideas.
Is there neither truth nor honesty in the
whole wide world ? Mrs. Verney, if you
deceive me, I don't think I shall ever get
over it

See how you are being spoiled ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Verney. ' Formerly you
neither believed nor wished to believe in a
soul ; now you answer that if you cannot,
you will never get over it. How devoutly I
wish you had never seen Eaton Square. You
would have been a different creature if you
never had sojourned in the halls of the godly.
Now you are miserable, and all because you

have hankering after the righteous. I am
thankful we are going away.'

If it were not for you I never would
go,' said Liza quietly ; ' but I have to
choose between you and them. Why on
earth you took me to such a house I
can't think. Mr. Kennedy declares you
knew he wasn't going, and that you must
have known what a fatal step you were
making me take

And if I did ? ' asked Mrs. Verney, with a
great appearance of frankness. ' Listen,
Liza, and then accuse me of being dishonest
to you if you can. I confess I wanted to
make you take a course that should put an
impassable barrier between you and the
Farrer lot. I saw you gradually but surely
becoming one of the orthodox, and for ages I
have been trying to shake off pious Eoger,
who hankers after your money, and with
whom you are unconsciously in love. If

VOL. II. g 2

you had refused this supper-party business,
I should have tried another tack. I was
fighting for you and myself too. Once
converted " you will be a wretched
creature, and I am too fond of you to contemplate
parting with you without making
a frantic effort to remain with you. There's
the whole business in a nut shell. Dismiss
me if you like, but you shall not accuse
me of being a false friend,' and Mrs.
Verney rose and came towards Liza, holding
out her hands in a pretty protesting
manner that she had hardly ever known
to fail.

At first Liza did not answer. Commonsense
naturally suggested that Mrs. Yerney's
half confession was quite enough to justify
the Farmers and Eoger Willoughby's worst
suspicions of her ; but then, Liza had been
brought up to think no action impossible to
those who were anxious to make their way in

the world-here there was only one unforgiveable
sin  the sin of being found out ; and
without acknowledging even to herself how
from that instant she began to dislike her
fascinating companion, she said with an
effort, ' I can't feel quite as grateful to you as
I ought, Mrs. Yerney ; but I will try and forget
it all ; at any rate, I shall have plenty todo.
We must move at once. The question
is where ? '

1 Why not go abroad out of this slush and
fog ? ' suggested Mrs. Verney tentatively,
feeling in a moment that Liza's manner
towards her had altered, and that she would
have to be very careful lest she should not be
able to recover her lost ground.

I suppose I need not think of the wedding
or any of my engagements after this,'
replied Liza wearily. 'Another country 
any country will do for us to hide ourselves
in.'

1 You are taking a very exaggerated view of
the position said Mrs. Verney steadily.
Remember we are among an exceptionally
straight-laced set here; and that, after all,
nothing harmful to you has occurred. Let
us try Algiers ; it is warm, new, fascinating.
You will come back a fresh creature  or,
better still, your old careless self. See, who
can tell us how to get there and where to
go?'

I shall interview the Spencers tomorrow
afternoon; they were there last year,' said
Liza. 'We were going to tea there. Failing
them, I shall fall back upon Cook.
Anyhow, we must go as soon as we can
pack up. Now leave me, Mrs. Verney,
please. You have to dress and I want to
be alone.'

One moment, Liza/ said her companion,
watching her carefully ; ' promise me not to
brood; remember this year has been an

isolated experience, in which you have
slipped a long way back from the advanced
platform where your father's teaching placed
you. Believe me, we shall be much happier
away from here.' Then as she saw
from Liza's face that she was becoming
impatient, she added : ' Well ; time will
tell. By the way, do you wish me to go
with you to the Spencers tomorrow ? If
I could have the afternoon free, I should
be glad.'

Oh ! do as you like,' replied Liza, sinking
into her chair and gazing into the fire, ' only
leave me now,' and taking up a book she so
evidently meant to be left to herself that Mrs.
Yerney, shrugging her shoulders, went out of
the room only too well satisfied with the
success of her little plot to care whether
Liza was pleased or displeased with her,
feeling convinced that for the future the
girl and her fortune were both entirely in

her power in a manner she had hardly
dreamed of.

The moment Mrs. Verney had closed the
door, Liza's pretence at reading came to an
end, and looking into the glowing depths of
the fire, she began slowly to realise what
leaving Eaton Square really meant to her; but
she had scarcely began to feel the touch of
the misery she knew was in store for her,
before a timid knock came at the door, and
Miss Hyacinth came trembling into the
room.

Don't be angry with me, dear Liza,' she
said ; * but I am going to make one more
effort. I know that you believe all our
anxiety to keep you is based on the low and
sordid one of your money, but do let me tell
you it is not ; were it so, we should salve our
consciences over by telling ourselves that
Mrs. Verney was your companion and was
nothing to us. Don't you see we are

acting on principle ? We cannot, even
to make ourselves comfortable, retain her
under our roof; we shall be the sufferers,
whereas we could easily look over this
in a hundred ways. Now we want to
save you  we love you, Liza ; we are sorry
for you, dear child, and we want to keep
you with us

To marry Koger Willoughby,' replied
Liza in a constrained voice. ' He would
never have overlooked my bringing up if he
had not wanted my money

Has he proposed to you ? ' asked Miss
Hyacinth, with such evident astonishment
that Liza realised that at present, at all
events, she was a little premature, and that
if a plot existed, Miss Hyacinth most certainly
was not in it.

'No; he has not said Liza flushing;
1 but Mrs. Verney  '

Don't quote that woman,' interrupted

Miss Hyacinth fiercely. ' We have known
Eoger from his birth, and I know he would
never do a dishonourable action. Why cannot
you believe in the single-mincleclness of
any one, Liza? I had hoped you had unlearned
a little of your father's cruel teaching
since you had been with us. Why should
not Eoger care for you and not for your
money only, though, mind you, he has never
said one word to lead us to suppose that he
does want to marry either you or any one
else ? '

Miss Hyacinth said Liza impulsively, ' I
confess to you, as I never thought to confess
to anyone, that I had hoped I was settled
among you for the rest of my life, and that I
was beginning to see there was a higher life
than the one I had been taught to believe
in; and yet this discovery has made me
wretched, miserable. I was much happier
when I was in Cornwall even, and when

I did not want to be good, or do any good
to anyone, and was only bored ; now I
am always wanting to escape somewhere
where I shall have peace. Yet I do seem
to obtain this sometimes, if only for a
few moments; and I see you have it, Mr.
Willoughby has it  can't you tell me how
to get it and keep it ? I am so tired, so
tired.'

1 don't know what you want,' said Miss
Hyacinth, trembling just a little, while all the
conventionalities she had been taught from
her cradle seemed to tremble on her lips;
unless you mean the peace that passes all
understanding  God's peace, Liza ? but to
appreciate that you must be old and tired,
I think. Can't you be happy a little without
troubling your head about such matters ?
When I was young I used to be happy just
because I was alive, and the sun shone;
and now nothing makes me unhappy, unless

I know Julie has a trouble, or goes without
all she ought to have. I can't help you,
Liza dear, unless you find out for yourself
that it is religion and faith that you lack;
stay with us, go regularly to church  try
that, at any rate.'

But religion is so utterly futile, so feeble,'
said Liza, all the old objections and
arguments against a professed faith coming
to her mind. ' Don't you ever see all the
doubts, and realise that you and the heathen
are alike, Miss Hyacinth ? for, after all, raise
altars where and when you like, they are
all to the unknown God. What good does
your religion do you ? '

This good,' replied Miss Hyacinth; 'it
makes me happy ; it is to' me much sweeter
to believe in a loving Father who orders our
goings for us, than to be tempest-tossed,
worrying about questions that have been
satisfactorily answered in the hearts of far

cleverer people than I am ; and I would
rather be deceived than disbelieve. But I
am not deceived ; I know God lives and
loves us, dear Liza ; this may be your chance
sent you by Him. Don't leave us, and do
give up that poor wretched woman who is
trying to harm you and make you as bad
as she is herself.'

I am her only friend,' replied Liza.
Does your faith teach you to save yourselves
at the expense of another? Then I
will have none of it. I am the only friend
she has in the world, and I must stick to
her to the end. She has my good at heart,
and would not have taken me last night
only she fancied I wanted rousing and detaching
from a life that was making me
profoundly miserable ; poor Mrs. Verney, if
I sent her away where would she go, I
wonder ! '

Why couldn't she go back to her sister

at Bridgeporth ?' asked Miss Hyacinth simply.
If it is only a question of money, allow hera
little if you like, and let us be your
companions. I am sure you would not miss
her.'

She has no sister at Bridgeporth, and
no relations, save her father, who won't see
her, and a married sister who is very poor,
and lives somewhere in Yorkshire,' answered
Liza.

But she has a sister  a Mrs. Pearson, a
doctor's wife. She came here once to see
her when you were out,' persisted Miss
Hyacinth. ' I heard her talking to her in
the hall. Certainly she seemed poor, but
they were very affectionate, and spoke then
of living together some day. I heard a good
deal, as they stood talking there about ten
minutes, then something made her go off ina
hurry. I knew she was her sister for she
told me so, and begged me not to speak of

it, as you much disliked Mrs. Pearson, and
would be very angry if you knew she was in
the house, and I promised her I wouldn't 
indeed, I forgot all about it until this
moment.'

You had better forget it altogether, dear
Miss Hyacinth,' said Liza, much disturbed
by the idea ; ' at all events, forget about it
until I mention it again. If Mrs. Yerney
be Mrs. Pearson's sister I shall remain here,
for she will have deceived me grossly,
and for only one reason '  and Liza covered
her face with her hands, as the whole
scene of her parting with Mrs. Pearson rose
before her.

True, she had had one or two letters from
her, reminding her that she had promised todo
something for her if she could ; but she
had taken small heed of them, and had
laughed over them too with Mrs. Verney,
who had strongly deprecated the idea of taking

any notice of her, on the grounds that such a
course would make Mrs. Pearson doubly
certain that her suspicion was grounded on
fact ; and in the rush and hurry too of
London life she had soon forgotten her
accuser. But now, if Mrs. Verney were
in deed and truth Mrs. Pearson's sister, then
the whole plot was laid bare before her. She
had wormed herself into her confidence,
meant to estrange her from her friends, in
order, first of all, to find out if the notion
of murder were correct, and then to live upon
her and her dread of discovery, using her
income and influence as if it were her own.

False friend, indeed ! and as Liza thought
over the whole matter, and as the truth in all
its blackness seemed borne in upon her like
a flood, she rose to her feet, and rushing
off to Mrs. Verney 's room, she darted in
determined to accuse her at once without
further delay.

Mrs. Verney was seated at her desk,
sealing a letter, which, when Liza broke in
upon her, she endeavoured to conceal ; but
the girl was too quick for her, and seizing it
from her, she read the address it was to
Mrs. Pearson, at some place in the immediate
neighbourhood of Eaton Square. In an
instant Mrs. Verney understood the position
of the case, and knew she was found
out.

Are you going to open my letter ? ' she
asked quietly ; ' do you know Mrs. Pearson ?
or have you suddenly gone mad ? '

I am not going to open your letter replied
Liza, sternly, ' neither have I gone
mad; there she added, tossing it back to
Mrs. Verney, who flew to the fire and dropped
it into the middle of the blaze. ' But I must
ask you to leave me at once  I will not sleep
another night under the same roof with
you.'

VOL. II. H

Why ? simply because I happen to have a
poor relation to whom you object ? ' asked Mrs.
Verney ; ' or because  '

1 1 am not going to bandy words with you
interrupted Liza haughtily ; ' your own conscience
may explain the matter to you ; I only
hope I shall never see your face again ; ' and
she was about to turn away, when Mrs.
Verney threw herself down on her knees in
front of her, and implored her to listen to
her ; but Liza detached her fingers from her
dress, and with a haughty gesture passed out
of the room, only repeating her desire that
Mrs. Verney should at once remove herself
and her belongings from Eaton Square;
while Mrs. Verney  driven almost wild at
the sudden end to the fabric she had raised,
and that she had hoped was now sufficiently
strong to be a barrier between herself and the
outer world for the rest of her life  sat
sullenly doing nothing, contemplating the

ruin around her, until Liza's maid came into
help her pack, and proved by the determined
manner in which she gave assistance,
that Liza's words were not empty ones.
Then, having gathered her possessions together,
she passed out of the house, vowing
vengeance and making plots that were as
absurd and as futile as the one which had
ended so disastrously.

Mrs. Yerney might, perhaps, have been
consoled a little, had she known that Liza
too was feeling as if her life had suddenly
fallen to pieces, and as if she were wrecked
on a lee shore, with nothing between her
and a succession of cold heavy waves of
suffering and disappointment ; and that during
the whole long night, the girl paced
her room in acute mental anguish, realising
at last that there was some law higher
than mere human law, and that her father's
education had dug a pit between her and

VOL. II. ii 2

the rest of the world that no sophistry,
no comfortable unbelief in anything outside
one's own will and pleasure, could ever
bridge over again.

ROGER SPEAKS.

If Liza had wished for confirmation of her
suspicions as regarded Mrs. Verney's untruth
and unscrupulousness, she could have obtained
it over and over again ; for as soon as
Mrs. Pearson discovered the dual plot had
exploded once more as completely and swiftly
as her first attempt to frighten Miss Standen
had done, she inundated Liza with letters,
and finally threw herself in her way, until
the girl had to threaten her with the police
and refuse entirely either to see or speak to
her.

Indeed, for some months after Mrs. Verney's

departure, Liza's life was made a burden
to her by more ways than one. In the first
place, her appearance at Miss Dobelle's party
had been mentioned in several of the
society ' papers, one of which had made an
elaborate life-like ' queer story ' out of it ;
and as Sir Marmaduke's peculiar system of
education was, of course, public property,
this was dwelt upon and exaggerated, until
people had been heard to say that really a
girl brought up as Liza had been was quite
unfit for decent society ; and that no amount
of money could gild over a nature that
delighted in blasphemy and in going to
disreputable houses, where even a married
woman could not be seen without being considerably
talked about afterwards. The
British public occasionally loudly demands
a victim, who can be openly pointed at as a
proof of its own spotless virtue and its
intolerance of vice, and such an example it

had claimed in Liza Standen. That public 
which unhesitatingly accepts a French play,
yet cannot speak of a Polarised edition of
the same thing in the mother tongue ; that
delights to honour those on whom the king-smiles,
yet that hunts to the death any
untitled creature who has fallen once; and
that exalts the sinner who amuses and charms
it, the while it abases in the dust the one
who has dared to step out of the beaten track 
occasionally has a spasm of severe virtue,
when no one is forgiven ; and such an attack
had seized it about the time of Liza's visit to
the favourite actress.

Some amusing strictures had been published
in one of the French papers about
Albion's attitude to one of their own
actresses, who was encouraged to appear in
the drawing-rooms of duchesses, even though
she and her companion were announced as
Mademoiselle Geese et son fils, and as a

proof of Albion's virtues was therefore expected,
Liza was fallen upon fiercely, and
not even the Farmers' influence could prevent
her from being forgotten when invitations
were sent out, and entirely ignored should
she be seen in the park or any other place of
public resort.

Mr. Kennedy's indignation was put down
respectively to spite on his part, because he
could not force the heiress down people's
throats; and Mrs. Kennedy was openly
pitied for giving Liza her support ; for being
a poor fool who could not see what her
husband was about; or as worse, as a woman
who was content to ignore* anything to secure
purchasers for her husband's pictures and a
constant supply of mutton for the young
barbarians, whose continued increase filled
her hands too full to allow of her doing anything
much for anyone, and to secure whose
comfort and well being she was popularly

supposed to be willing to cut herself up into
little bits, morally and physically.

In the midst of all this turmoil, Eoger
Willoughby's calm good sense was literally
the only thing that kept Liza from utter
and entire despair ; but even this pleasure
was not wholly without bane, for his constant
presence by her side, and in Eaton Square,
gave rise to all sorts of gossip, which culminated
in an announcement in the Universal
Spy of a forthcoming marriage between the
eccentric heiress of an eccentric baronet and
a still more eccentric member of an aristocratic
family, whose only delight was to be
found in Whitechapel, where, no doubt, the
menage of the future would be set up, as the
West End had already condemned pretty
plainly the rather free-and-easy behaviour of
the fiancee ; and as the paragraph concluded
with a peculiarly brilliant prophesy as to the
probable result such an union would have on

later generations, Mr. Kennedy went about
with a horsewhip, which he announced was
especially fitted for the broad shoulders of
the editor; and Liza for days refused to
leave her room, and for weeks utterly declined
to speak to poor Koger, lest other
papers should follow suit and proclaim a
marriage that she deemed utterly impossible.

The girl's health was giving way, when
suddenly Mr. Kennedy declared that vigorous
steps must be taken to at once rehabilitate
her in the eyes of the public, or she would
either die or go out of her mind.

'You see,' he said to the Miss Farmers,
who were quite as anxious about Liza as
ever he was himself, ' she ought to have
brazened the matter out. She had done
no harm whatever, but by accepting the
snubs, she tacitly allowed she was in the
wrong. Now you must give another ball,
Miss Farrer, stir up the duchess, and carry

all before you. I'll see that your invitations
are accepted, but, of course, if the duchess
takes the matter in hand, you will be all right.
Will you fix a day, or will you call first of all
upon her grace ? '

'I hear all you are saying,' said Liza,
looking back into the room from her seat by
the window at Miss Farrer and Mr. Kennedy,
who had thought her too fully immersed in
thought to catch the subject of their conversation.
* I am greatly obliged to you for
thinking of me, but I have come to the
conclusion that society and I have no farther
need of each other. I have done no wrong,
so I refuse to be forgiven, and, in fact, I have
made up my mind to disappear from this
sublunary sphere altogether into the wilds of
the country. I have just heard my tenant wants
to leave the Bridgeporth house, and I think I
shall go back to it. I have never been as
miserable there, after all, as I have been here.'

1 You can't be so mad,' exclaimed Mr.
Kennedy, rising and going to her. ' Come,
Liza, join us in the room, and let us thrash
this matter out ; ' then, as she slowly came
and took her seat by the Miss Farmers, he threw
himself back into his chair and added, ' look
here, Liza, don't you see what you will do if
you leave town now, just as the season is
beginning to be talked of ? You will give a
tacit assent to the sentence passed upon you
by society. Believe me, even had you been to
blame in the matter, your best course would
be to brazen it out. The world is a great
coward, and dare not scold anyone that faces
it, and demands proofs of its statements.
You have been foolish, but don't confess it ;
look it boldly and cheerfully straight in the
eyes, and defy it ; you will then have it at
your feet. Go away, and you can never come
back. In a very few weeks, people will have
said awful things, and then they will forget

you, until you re-appear, when worse things
still will be spread abroad. No ; if you are
ever to have any peace again, you must stay
where you are

'Yes, Mr. Kennedy is quite right said
Miss Farrer firmly. ' I can quite understand
your feelings, Liza dear, and your impulse is
natural enough ; but think of that great
lonely house, of your friendless condition, the
long dark winter afternoons. Recollect your
love of music, and of the theatre, and of
society, too. You can never come back comfortably
if you leave us now

We are fond of you, too, and don't want to
lose you,' added Miss Hyacinth, taking her
hand and patting it gently. ' Take our advice,
Liza, remain just this one season ; let us give
the ball Mr. Kennedy has suggested, and
defy the gossips. It is very necessary you
should remain in your present sheltered
position.'

1 don't know what to do exclaimed Liza,
springing to her feet and clasping her hands
wildly ; ' never, never was any woman placed
as I am. I can trust no one, because my father
rooted trust out of my heart ; I can love no
one, because I was taught to scoff at love, to
believe it either a poet's sickly dream, or a
man's cruel selfishness; and I am all alone 
all alone in a world that I hate and that I
cannot understand. I did believe in Mrs.
Verney, and how did she requite my kindness
? I dare not care for you, Miss Farrer,
for fear I may find out you only keep me
here to pay your rates and taxes, and help
you in your money matters; and as to Mr.
Kennedy, I wonder how many times I have
heard of his evil intentions towards me. Oh !
I would a thousand times rather be in Bridgeporthh.
I should have the sea, and the cliffs,
and Laura Buckworth  that is to say, if her
mother would let her come to me. Mrs.

Buckworth is, after all, the only really
truthful person I ever met ; not even to help
herself and her children would she let me
have Laura. I shall go to her and ask her to
help me.'

Miss Farrer looked at Liza in dismay. The
placid, even, uneventful life she had lived
had not fitted her to cope with such a nature.
Life had treated her hardly, and she had
complained to Hyacinth quietly of the
hardness; but she would no more have
allowed to the world at large that all had not
been halcyon weather with her, than she
would have questioned the Bible, or allowed
theories anent the foundations of the faith to
be discussed in her presence  two things that
were quite impossible for her to contemplate.
Accepting every bond that could be laid upon
her, and regarding such bonds as the very
things that kept society together, she was
frankly conventional, and could see no reason

for rebelling against rules and regulations that
were right in the main ; and while recognising
that Liza had been unfortunate in her
bringing up, she yet hoped that, being with
people whose daily life would fall abroad and
perish entirely without such bonds, Liza herself
would take them upon her willingly and
unquestioningly, and become, in time, an
orthodox English lady.

It had been alarming to Miss Farmer to
find how utterly and entirely Liza's mind
was as the mind of a savage ; how things
that had become second nature through use
to the world at large, were criticised and
talked over by her in her utterly free and
unfettered way ; how church-going had been
reduced by her to its lowest level of a bonnet
show, or a duty to one's neighbour, rather than
an obligation to a Higher Power ; and that
her standard of right and wrong was only
measurable by her own will, and what washer

pleasure at the particular moment. But
when Liza discovered that sentiments like
these pained her good friends, she had given
up enunciating them in then presence, and,
until the final rupture with Mrs. Verney, the
Miss Farmers had believed she was gradually
becoming one of themselves, in all the
externals, if not the internals of life. Since
Mrs. Verney had left, the Miss Farmers had
seen all was not as smooth as they had fondly
believed it to be ; but they had defended her
so often, and had discovered so fully how
mean and pitiful had been both Mrs. Verney's
conduct and that of society at large, that
they had begun to be not only very fond of
Liza, but to own that she was right in some
of the beliefs she had retained in the shallowness
of the world's code of morality, and
the surface nature of the homage it paid to '
all that was true and good. Still, they
were not prepared to find she was in the

VOL. II.

mood that possessed her at present, and it
was some moments before Miss Farrer could
reply to her outbreak, which ended by Liza's
bursting into tears, and sobbing terribly.
Mr. Kennedy rose, and beckoning to
Hyacinth Farrer to follow him, left Liza
alone with Miss Farrer, who at last said
quietly 

It is our opinion, dear Liza, that you
ought to remain where you are, for many
reasons. You are not strong enough to be
all alone in that great house in Cornwall;
you must retain your place in society; and
you must not own you are beaten. It is
painful for me to mention money, you know,
but if we could in any way make you comfortable
without being under pecuniary
obligations to you, we would offer you the
place of a dear young sister. I am sure you
do not need words to assure you of our
affection for you. We have shown it to you,

I am sure, in a thousand ways  you have
owned as much. Come, Liza,' she added,
flushing painfully, ' I will make you an offer
be one with us  let us discharge all the
servants, and take a smaller house, and don't
let us mention money. I am sure you and I
understand each other; and Hyacinth can
teach you housekeeping, and how to spend
your income on charity and good works.
Only never doubt our affection for you again.
Come ! say yes, dear child ! and we'll set
about our reforms at once,' and Miss Farrer
held out her arms to Liza, while a rapid procession
of thoughts anent all she was giving
up, and an acute recollection of what life had
been before Liza had added to their income,
passed rapidly through her brain, and yet had
no power to alter her proposal; for at the
moment she was sustained by that curious
momentary glow that in some extraordinary
way seizes us all at times, and impels us to

VOL. II. i 2

actions and speech that are vastly noble and
grand, and that we are as astonished at ourselves
as are the people who hear and see us.
A species of 'angelic possession,' that causes
us to be valiant and unselfish, and that is as
astounding to those who have acted under its
influence as it is to the on-looker, and under
the spell of which people often bind themselves
to do great and good things, of which
they repent at leisure when the excitement or
possession ' is of the past. But Liza for
once was forced to believe that Miss Farrer
was truthful ; and though she reiterated her
determination to return to Cornwall, she yet
consented to think over all Miss Farrer had
urged against this plan, on the condition that
no attempt was made to force her into
society, and that the idea of the ball should
be given up. And, content with this respite,
Miss Farrer went to tell her sister and Mr.
Kennedy of the end of the interview, while

Liza sat alone in the drawing-room, feeling
as if her head would split in half with the
pain caused by the thousand and one
thoughts and fancies that filled her brain,
and made her sometimes wonder if the madness
that kept her mother in durance vile
was not also nearing her and making her lose
all hold on the clear-cut, selfish plan of life,
with which she had believed herself to be
armed to the teeth when she had left
Bridgeporth.

Imagine a savage, whose one idea is self ;
who puts his old father and mother out of the
world without a qualm, because they have
ceased to be useful or enjoy life, knowing
that his fate will be the same should he, too,
outlive his raison d'etre ; whose one notion
of this world is a place where most is to be
obtained by those who are strongest and most
unscrupulous, and Liza's mind, when she
left Cornwall, should be plain to you. Then

place this savage in a quiet home, where
sufficient society comes for him to see that
society is a sham, and that people are
unscrupulous only in a minor degree, enough
to prove there are exceptions to the rule ; and
let him gradually come to see against his
wish that there are truth, purity, and
unselfish purity to be found still among us,
and then picture once more the effect of all
this on the mind.

Liza had discovered, as she thought, that
her father's words were all true ; only to perceive
at the same time that there were glimmerings
of light behind the curtain. And as
she thought over Koger Willoughby's life, and
remembered the Farmers' unfailing patience
and gentleness; as a revelation, she saw
human nature purged of its humanity, and
recognised what she had lost for ever 
recognised that there did exist those who
cared for their fellow beings, and who were

honestly trying to make a good thing out of
life.

Liza had been taught to please herself,
to take just as much as she could possess
herself of, believing in no power behind the
mere routine of life. She had simply been
instructed to arm herself with worldly
weapons, to prevent herself from being either
1 found out ' or beaten in the race. And
tjiougli she recognised nature's inexorable
laws, and saw that an infringement of them
was swiftly and promptly punished, nature
was nothing to her beyond a fortuitous
conglomeration of atoms ; and having sense
enough, as she said, to keep herself well, she
ceased to trouble even about them ; and
having made up her mind that religion,
society, truth, and honesty were all shams,
proceeded to enjoy herself, until living with
the Farmers forced her to see how false her
position was, and to contemplate that even

in temporal matters her premises were all
false, and had been stripped from her, leaving
her naked and defenceless. Perhaps she was
not yet aware how much being thrown with
Eoger Willoughby had caused her to arrive
at this conclusion. Let me confess here
boldly to a novel-reading world that Eoger
Willoughby is a truly difficult creature to
draw, for I want others to see him as he
is presented to me. No one can help
shrinking from the orthodox good young
man, whose hats and coats are the bye-word
of his friends, and whose ignorance of
the stage-door world, of the best brands of
cigars and wine, makes him the mock of
many, and whose cloudless condition puts
him outside the pale of society altogether ;
who cannot keep dropping words in season
and his h's at the same time ; who comes
home to tea with the regularity of an old
washerwoman, and whose unselfish devotion

to his work, and his wife and children, forms
a pleasant subject for jest among those whose
wives are in every port, and whose children
would be wise indeed did they know their
own father. But surely a good man need not
necessarily be a fool  need not necessarily
be a bore ! and can cheerfully go about his
work, doing it all the better because he hopes
to benefit the world besides his own pocket ;
and because he owns allegiance to a higher
power than Dives, or than that brainless
tyrant which rules with a rod of iron over the
world of fashion and culture.

Now Koger Willoughby was neither the
one nor the other, and I am most anxious
to draw him as he really is  with his pleasant
smile, his shabby coat, and his immense aptitude
for work ; with his devotion to the poor
and his manly religion, that is so much a part
of himself, that it never strikes him that a
really religious man must of necessity be a

superstitious idiot ; and although his friends
laugh at him they are compelled to admire
him, as much as they are compelled to help
him with money, when he comes and demands
as a right for some of his numerous starving
proteges, a little of the surplus that is squandered
so recklessly on horses, flowers, or
jewels ; or on those who, in due time, come
under the ministrations of Koger and such ashe
; too late to save the body  too late often
enough to discover if they are possessed still
of a soul to be saved.

Quiet and sober-minded Eoger had soon
seen that Liza required someone to guide
her, and as he had rapidly discovered that
she would spend her money willingly on
good works, even if she only took the humanitarian
view of the question and laughed boldly
and openly at the religious side, he had
sufficient faith in his Master to believe in the
operations of time ; and without urging his

ideas upon Liza, he contented himself with
showing her the blest example of sundry
lives, feeling sure that intimate knowledge
of such men and such women could have
but one effect, and would cause her sooner
or later to declare herself on the side of
religion.

Gradually Eoger had unwillingly to confess
to himself that he had begun to love the
wild, unconventional creature with whom he
had been thrown so much in contact; whose
passionate love for her fellow man seemed as
great as his own ; whose cheek would flush
and burn when listening to some tale of woe
that would cause her to demand passionately
why God allowed such suffering, if God
existed, which He could not do, she affirmed,
else were the world reformed at a much
quicker rate than it could ever be, even were
all the rich to do their very best ; and whose
strong hand and steady nerve had been of

great help to him already in some of the work
he had on hand. And though he had felt alla
man's dislike to scandal and publicity, and
had been most bitterly indignant over the
Flossie Dobelle episode, he had been too
thankful to know that Mrs. Yerney's evil
influence was removed, to be really hurt by
the talk, the while his heart had gone out to
her with all its strength when he saw her
suffering, and heard from his aunts how much
she felt the adverse verdict of society, and
the treachery of the friend in whom she had
trusted, who had wormed herself into her
confidence and shared her home and her
affection, the while she was plotting and contriving,
and hoping to find out the girl she
professed to adore was nothing more or less
than the most heartless and abandoned of
murderesses.

The very afternoon that Liza had had the
talk with Miss Farrer, after which she was

left alone for awhile, Eoger was nearing the
house, his mind full of the wash-house project,
towards which Liza had promised more than
substantial help ; and opening the door with
his latch-key, as usual, he went up to the
drawing-room unannounced, sure of finding
some member of the family there at that
hour of the day.

As he opened the door he heard a low,
deep sob, and, standing for a moment peering
into the dusky room that was only lighted by
the fire-light, he caught sight of Liza's form,
and, without waiting to think of anything,
save that the woman he loved was in trouble,
forgetting all that might be said of her money
and his foolishness, he came hurriedly forward,
and, before Liza could realise it, was
holding her close to him, and imploring
her not to grieve any more, for he loved
her, and would guard her against the
world for the rest of their lives. And

as Liza felt the strength of his love, and
the delicious sense of safety that Ins presence
brought with it, she cast aside all her scruples,
all her dreads, and losing in one instant all
doubt of his unselfish devotion to her, she
gave herself up to the happiness of the moment,
knowing instantaneously that she, too,
loved ; that she, too, had found her master 
someone stronger than herself  and who
could protect her against the storms and
waves of this troublesome world.

Ah ! women may talk of their rights, their
equality with men, their strong-mindedness,
and their determination to unsex themselves
and throw themselves into the arena where
battling for bread must be done ; but they,
not one of them, like it, or are fit for it ; and
not one of them does not have her day-dreams
of a hearth and home, where they can
sit secure, the while a stronger than they
stand between the wind and them. It may be

softness and love of luxuriance, just as a

religious belief may be nothing but slavish

credence in an outworn superstition  with

that aspect we have nothing to do ; but if we

contemplate it as regards happiness, there is

no choice ; so as Liza forgot all, save that

someone older, wiser, better than herself, loved

her and required her companionship, for that

moment, if never again in her brief life, she

understood rapture, and knew that at last she

could believe in happiness, if in nothing else.

Presently Koger drew her to him, and

whispered : ' Are you happy, Liza ? Remember

our life together can never be

anything save a hard-working one, and you

will have to bid adieu to a regular society

existence. Having put my hand to the

plough, I can never look back, even to please

you ; but I know it would not please you if

I did, you care too much for my poor folk

yourself.'

Liza looked up at him with clear bright
eyes. ' Koger,' she said quite quietly, ' I
have tried ruling myself, I have tried directing
my life, and I have made a miserable
failure of it all. I can't think what has
made you care for me ; but now I know you
do, I shall put myself into your hands,
and do as you wish me to. I only hope
you won't hate me when you know me
better; remember how my father brought
me up  remember my mother. Don't you
think you are rash to take so much responsibility
upon yourself. You will tell me if
you repent. I wonder what the world will
say about it ? '

Much what the world always says,' replied
Eoger easily ; * that I want your money,
and that you are a silly girl to be gulled by
me and my cousins. Liza, child, I have
never in all my life taken the very smallest
notice of anything the world says, neither

must you ; the only way to be happy in this
sphere is to do one's duty, be honest, and
not care one scrap for what is popularly
known as the world

I never thought I could be happy,' replied
Liza softly. ' How curious life is ; ten
minutes ago I was miserable, I was making
up my mind to go back to Cornwall and be
forgotten by all, forgetting all of you too.
Now all is altered, I have a future before
me; but lam afraid, too she added, after
a moment's pause, i you don't know me one
bit; I have neither morals nor religion in
the accepted sense ; I am a savage, with the
past and education of a savage. Can I ever
retrieve the past, I wonder ? ' and she
clasped her hands and looked anxiously into
Roger's face.

'I am a strong believer that men "may
rise on stepping-stones of their dead selves
to higher things"' said Roger calmly. 'I

VOL. II.

know your faults, Liza, and your undisciplined
nature. The faults you have should have been
pointed out to you in your childhood, your
religion taught you then, though, perhaps,
had it been, it would have become a mere
form to you; now it will be real indeed,
should you ever obtain a creed, or rather a
belief. I am not going to tell you I think
you perfect, neither am I going to lecture
you now. I am too happy ; let us pretend
to be lotus-eaters for the nonce, Liza, it is
not often I do. Do you know I never was in
love in all my life before ? I want to realise
that it is so, and that you love me. Let us
leave metaphysics for the present and talk
nonsense in the true-lover's style. I want
you to kiss me, Liza,' and drawing her into
his arms once more, Eoger kissed her lips
with the first lover's kiss that had ever
touched them, and for awhile all was
forgotten, save the old, old story, that is so

old and yet so new to those who, for the
first time, find themselves suddenly caught
and bound in the rosy chains of a requited
love.

VOL. II. K 

MISGIVINGS.

It was not until Liza's engagement was
some few weeks old that she began to have
any misgivings about the course she had
taken.

That it brought her great and intense
happiness ; that for the very first time in her
life she felt at rest, and ceased to ponder and
worry over the problems of existence, was
sufficient for her, and she was as uncontrollably
happy as if her past were cloudless
and had been that of any other ordinary
girl.

Difficult as it had been for her to believe

in goodness or unselfishness, it was as difficult
now to credit that she had scoffed at and
derided either virtue; for it was impossible to
be much with Eoger Willoughby without
being forced to confess that here, at all
events, was one human being who did endeavour
to do his best for a suffering world, and
whose whole existence was given to raise up
those who had fallen wounded by the way ;
white his friends, being all more or less folk
of the same stamp as himself, seemed to
prove he was not the only really good person
in the world, though, of course, in Liza's
eyes, he must always appear better than the
very best.

It was at first a curious study for Liza, to
contrast the numerous circles into which
society seemed formed.

In that in which the duchess and her
friends, and even the Miss Farmers, revolved
continually and contentedly, there

seemed little or no belief in anything save
the peerage, society, and good marriages.

Poor people only touched the outskirts of
this divine company as those ' brutes of
tenants whose failure to pay rent meant
a few flowers less at the next ball or,
worse still, a fewer amount of balls for which
to buy flowers ; or as domestics, whose disregard
of their places touched even the
duchess, who was found dissolved in tears
because her maid insisted on leaving her to
get married, although her grace had kindly
pointed out to her that she could not possibly
live and be happy on <2 a week, and that
for the future her existence would be passed
among low people, and in a cottage, where
she would die of rheumatism, or spend a
life of starvation and child-bearing, embittered
by a remembrance of her happy hours
under the ducal roof, where she had been
about as much of a human creature as the

duchess's bed, or the duchess's arm-chair, orin
fact, as anything else was that ministered
to the comfort of the duchess.

Then Liza looked on that easy-going
middle-class circle, whose god was respectability,
and whose highest aim was to appear
to be part of the circle just above it; and
though with this she was not very much
acquainted, she remembered Bridgeporth
with a shudder, and recollected the town and
county lines of demarcation, that even in her
state of isolation at the Holt had been
brought before her by Laura's chatter more
than once.

Looking at these two fine round lines, and
then on the circle that was Eoger's, Liza
wondered again at the thousand and one
differences in human beings, that make it
almost impossible for us to believe in the
theory of universal brotherhood of which we
hear so much. Here she saw no one who

was not intensely anxious to help someone
else ; here she met tolerant, large-minded
men and women, who were as ready to assist
an atheist, a Jew, Turk, heretic, or infidel, as
they were the most orthodox member of the
English church ; and she discovered an
atmosphere undisturbed by the strife of
creeds, yet where there was an unmistakable
sense of communion with a higher nature
than the mere mental one, that it was
impossible not to recognise, though the
word * religion ' was scarcely heard, while
work ' was on everyone's lips and in everyone's
hands.

If disappointments came  and how often
they came no one who has not worked
among such people can in the least understand
 they were met bravely and uncomplainingly
; because the workers believed that
no work can ever be really wasted, and because,
having done their best, they were not

disheartened, but believed, too, that though
they might never learn the real result of their
labour, that somehow, somewhere, the fruit
thereof was ripening, and would produce seed
and yet other fruit, where it was least
expected.

Discussions being simply of work to be done,
seldom, if ever, touched on religious topics.

So much was taken for granted, that no
one had ever stumbled on Liza's curious lack
of anything like a faith ; and as Eoger trusted
entirely to time and silent influence to give
her what she had been denied in her cradle,
even if he troubled about religion at all, she
bid fair to hear no more about it than she
did at Bridgeporth itself, or than she had
done since her first coining to live at the
Farmers' house.

Eoger himself did not call himself by any
means an ordinary orthodox churchman.

He would as often as not take a whole

troop of boys and men out into the country
on Sunday, and was far happier under the
blue sky with them than he would have been
teaching in a stuffy schoolroom, or endeavouring
to talk of the higher life to men
whose ideas were bounded by Radcliffe
Highway, or the unspeakable horror and
dulness of the Walworth Road. While a
Sunday excursion with Mr. Willoughby,
entailing as it did Sunday clothes and
clean hands and faces, meant steadiness
during the week in order that there should
be no necessity to pawn the raiment that
must be worn on Sunday, or else the
promised walk and change of air would be
lost.

No wonder Eoger felt inclined to use bad
language in the winter, when the nation's
picture galleries and museums were shut in
his peoples' faces; and he made the lives
of all his friends who possessed big houses

and pictures a burden to them, by insisting
on their being at home to him and his
ragged regiment ' on mid-winter Sundays,
until some of the more prominent among
them began to agitate in the House for the
opening of the museums, seeing in this
their only chance of keeping their houses
to themselves once more.

Much, therefore, as Liza saw of her fiance
and of his work, she was not troubled by him
with polemic discussions. He took so much
for granted, that in his company she could
not help feeling rested and safe ; for when
he had assured himself of Liza's undoubted
love for him, he at once admitted her into
the secrets of his hopes and desires; and
taking on himself the right to guide her,
insensibly caused her to absorb his own
enthusiasm, and hi part to accept his beliefs,
simply because they were his, and, therefore,
indisputable.

If at times Liza could not forget the early
training that almost forced her to resolve
anything she saw and heard to reason, and
if she felt inclined to repeat to Eoger some
of her father's arguments  which reduced life
to the mere dead level of a playing field,
where people obtained enjoyment in proportion
to their strength and the unscrupulous
use they made of it  his calm good sense,
and his kindly ridicule of some pet theory
that had struck Liza as an unanswerable
argument about the foundation of the world,
or the personality of a Deity, would soon
re-as sure her, the while he showed her that
such reasoning could only be compared to
the action of those who spend then lives
sifting rubbish, in the hope of finding-some
gem to repay them for all the trouble
they had taken in the matter. And ashe
could furthermore demonstrate that
the special rubbish-heap Liza desired to

sift had already been sifted by generations of
sceptics, all of whom had been deluded by
discovering sundry glittering substances
which, on nearer inspection, turned out to bethe
veriest shams, or old delusions of bye-gone
ages, and that the cleverest of all,
though he had found a germ, yet could not
discover the cause of the germ for all his
science ; Liza preferred to cease troubling
herself at all about the matter, and was
content to do as Koger did, because she
loved him, and believed all he did and said
must be right.

At first, too, it seemed such plain sailing,
so easy was it to give up her own soul, her
own will, and place herself for guidance in
her lover's hands ; but, as time went on, and
March began to go out like a lamb at the
call of April, and the wedding-day was
already talked of for the first week in June,
Liza's soul refused any longer to be in

bondage, and awoke, all the more vigorous for
the long rest it had had from all the doubts
and fears to which it had been a prey.

It might have slept to the end, had it not
chanced that one Sunday night, returning
from some entertainment to the poor at
Whitechapel, Liza and Koger had strayed
into a tiny temporary church, known to the
initiated as St. Barnabas-in-the-Fields.

It was a clamp night at the extreme end of
March, and the little building was filled
by the very poorest of the poor, who went
because the church was bright and warm, the
music good, the welcome hearty, and the
parson their own especial friend, who, moreover,
did not resent the congregation leaving
before the sermon, or only coming in for a
hymn or a prayer, and going away again, and
who, if he missed a familiar face from his
little flock, did not allow twenty-four hours
to elapse before going to make inquiries as to

their well-being. In such a church as this,
the poor felt like coming to a home, or, rather,
to their Father's house, where words of
counsel, of welcome, of help were always
ready for them, and where the brotherhood
of one faith, one baptism, seemed to
remind them indeed of their inheritance;
and although rich people were constant too
in their attendance  for Wilfrid Knightonon
might have been the guest of a hundred tea-tables
had he so willed it  they could not
help, in their turn, succumbing to the homelike
influence of the small, unfinished church;
and those who came regularly were as fond
of it as was the poorest creature who crept in
there for the warmth and quiet she was
denied in the miserable refuge she called her
home.

It happened to be a special Sunday in the
Church's year, and Wilfrid Knightonon's
sermon was directed to the great necessity of

repentance for sin ; for while he did not take
the orthodox view of sin, and the necessary
abasement for ever of the sinner, he pointed
out, in a few clear, sharp words, that repentance
was emphatically imperative before the
committer of the sin could be whole. ' There
are some sins he said, ' that render the
sinning as unfit to associate with their fellow
creatures as does an attack of small-pox ;
and, until they are pronounced free from infection,
should consent to quarantine and
disinfection afterwards ; and I want you all
to realise this.

For example, a thief can make restitution,
a slanderer can unsay his slander, an
adulterer can cleanse his life, and this, once
done, I maintain he is s free of the world as
the small-pox patient is, who is not shunned
once he is pronounced cured because there
are sundry pits and scars that proclaim he
was once a sufferer from that fell disease

'I maintain,' he proceeded, 'that half the
sins of this world are persisted in because
the sinner cannot believe in the doctrine of
a second chance ; once fallen by the way,
the mud must stick  a theory much believed
in by the virtuous among us, who are ready
enough to forgive their enemies if they are
allowed to do so from a pyramid, but who
cannot realise that forgiveness is nothing,
while forgetfulness is all in all ; and if I could
enforce on you all the truth that God not
only forgives but forgets, and gives not one
chance to a man, but fifty, my task among
you would be much lighter than it is.

But, inasmuch as no one can cleanse
themselves without water, so no one can
cleanse themselves from sin without the
water of repentance, nor keep themselves
pure without making restitution and asking
pardon.'

This was the gist of the sermon, and

VOL. II. l

as in a few short, telling sentences Mr.
Knightonon preached the gospel of hope and
happiness, Liza appeared to realise her
position for the first time, and to see how
she stood  separate, alone, unfit, in the eyes
of God and man, to associate with others,
until she, too, was cleansed and had made
restitution.

Stunned by the reality and suddenness of
the revelation, it needed a strong effort to
enable her to stand up during the last hymn,
and recollect where she was.

As in a dream, she looked at the richly-decked
altar, bright with lights and beautiful
with flowers, and noted Mr. Knightonon's calm,
happy face, and strongly developed features ;
and then glanced at her betrothed, who, with
an equally unperturbed countenance, was
joining vigorously in the well-known tune ;
and as she saw in herself the infected creature,
so distinct, so separate, so really unlike all

that people believed her to be, for the moment
the agony seemed unbearable, and it was only
by an almost miraculous effort she could
suppress a cry that seemed to force itself to
her lips ; but by the time the blessing was
pronounced, calm sense came to her assistance.


She was too self-reliant, too judicially-minded
to be the subject for instant conversion,
which is often enough nothing more
nor less than an hysterical seizure acting on
the nerves, which are for the moment overstrung;
and recollecting her father's teaching
that made all things lawful in the pursuit of
getting the most for oneself out of life  she
determined to think no more of her trouble,
and to be Roger's wife, cutting away her past
as one would lop off a rotten branch of a tree,
or cast away a once cherished garment that
became outrageous only when fashions had
changed, and so put it out of court ; Liza rose

VOL. II. l 2

to leave the church with a sense of relief,
and, with the revulsion of feeling that invariably
succeeds a crisis in one's mental life,
made some light remark to Eoger about an
item in the ritual which had struck her as
ridiculous.

Don't you know who the parson is ? '
asked Eoger, without replying exactly to her
statement ; ' that is Wilfrid Knightonon ; his
brother looks after your poor mother at
Dree wood. I thought you had met him at
my cousins' house.'

No, I have not. I have only heard Miss
Hyacinth talk of his ribands and flowers,'
replied Liza flippantly. ' How silly it all is
to be sure don't you think so, Eoger ? '

No, I can't say I do,' answered Roger
quietly. ' You and I may not care for that
especial form of worship, but then we are
sensible, matter-of-fact people; we are not
taken in by the judges' robes and wigs ; even

the Queen's crown, sceptre, and gilt coach
strike us as ridiculous. I question, too, if
we are even deceived by the uniform of a
General officer or an Admiral ; and, in fact,
I suppose we might reduce all raiment to a
question of mere decency; still, it is impossible
to deny that there are people who
are taken in and much impressed by gorgeous
draperies; and if royalty, and law, and the

services have their chance of impressing


King Mob, I really cannot see why Mother

Church is not to have her share  or is it
always to be apparelled in hodden-grey ? As
Carlyle remarks, " Life, after all, is very mucha
question of clothes." '

I want you to be serious, Koger,' said
Liza, as they walked on quickly through the
empty streets. ' I believe you are only
taking that side out of mere love of a discussion.
I am sure, if there be a God at all,
He can't care much about such flummery.'

God looks beyond the flowers to their
meanings replied Eoger. ' Come, Liza, if
you really want to discuss these things I will
do it with pleasure ; but you and I have
tacitly agreed to dissect nothing, and take
much for granted. Don't let us bring down
everything in heaven and earth too to the
reductio ad absurdum to which all could be
levelled if we chose, I like to take the best
view possible of life, and, thank heaven, I
can see good in everything  even in Will's
candles and colours and flowers, while allowing
they may have a ludicrous side too if you
insist on it ; but if so, that side at all events
is one I don't wish to contemplate even
through your eyes, dearest.'

What side, then, appeals to you ?' asked
Liza.

The side that I see when I look into
Will's work,' said Roger quietly. ' When I
go down Will's courts and don't have a

brick-bat at my head ; when I discover
Will's boys the most intelligent of all those I
take out for days in the country; and that I
furthermore contemplate in the bright
church, where even the poorest and most
miserable appear to find rest and hope. Oh !
Liza, God's best gift is hope. Hope for the
world, hope for better things, hope for
happiness, hope for heaven. I give up all I
possess  all, if I can only keep on hoping.'

You have such tremendous faith,' said
Liza bitterly. ' I could not get you to believe
in Mrs. Verney's utter badness, though you
were inclined, if I remember, at our first
meeting, to denounce her, and send her out
defenceless into the world.'

Because I fancied she was like Will's
small-pox patient,' replied Eoger. ' When I
found you knew all, I said no more. I think
the first thing that attracted me to you,
dear, was your charity to that unfortunate

creature. You were anxious to give her
another chance, no matter what would be the
effect on your social standing.'

That was not my reason in the least
said Liza. ' She amused me  was different
from the ordinary run of women  not easily
shocked  was adventurous  in one word,
defiant of all the cut-and-clried rules of the
social tread-mill, against which my father
had so often warned me. I only wanted to
please myself then, just as I want to do
now.'

It is lucky your desires are so easily
satisfied said Roger, gazing down at her
fondly. 'It strikes me that pleasing
yourself consists in making other people
happy. Well, in that, as in much else, Liza,
you and I are agreed, therefore, we can leave
Will's fantasies alone.'

'I wish one thing said Liza fiercely; 'I
wish I had been born without a conscience,

or whatever you call that detestable something
inside one that cannot let one alone 
I mean the thing that pricks and pricks until
one gets up in the morning ; that makes one's
life a burden to one if one reads a novel in
the daytime, or bullies one's dressmaker
because she hasn't made a dress in half the
time anyone possibly could do it in, and that
is constantly prodding one to do disagreeable
things. I never was troubled by this
possession at Bridgeport, and I devoutly
wish I had remained there.'

Did you ever read the story of Undine ? '
asked Eoger quietly.

'Ah! poor soul! yes,' said Liza. ' The
birth of her soul was bought by her life. It
is an evil omen, Eoger. I wish you had not
spoken of her. The purchase of a soul forme
may cost us both dear

And even then ? ' asked Roger. ' Ah !
Liza, I would give you up, never love you or

see you again in this world, if I could ensure
your safety  happiness for eternity. If you
simply exist now, enjoying the moment as it
flies, you have no higher level than your
soft Persian cat, or than the idiot who basks
in the sunshine, nor looks beyond. But I
know better. I know that hand and hand
you and I will climb together; not troubling
ourselves about a future, but doing our best
here  believing that the Power that put us
here sees farther, knows better, than we
do

I wish we both of us did not take life so
seriously, or you were a lover like anyone
else said Liza impatiently. 'Look at May
Petersham and Sir Sampson, they bother
themselves about nothing; their highest
anxiety is about the chairs of their house
in Portland Place, or the fit of May's last new
frock. Let us copy them, Roger !  go in for
horses, diamonds, and society, and leave the

human race to look out for itself. We make
ourselves tremendously miserable about it,
and, as far as I can discover, we make no
impression on the dirt and squalor. It's
like Mrs. Warrington and the Atlantic Ocean,
the broom may keep out the first few drops,
but the sea is bound to overflow and swamp
us sooner or later.'

Eoger could not help laughing at Liza's
earnestness : he had felt as she did at the
moment far too often not to be able to
sympathize with her ; then he said, ' You
might as well refuse to eat your dinner
to-night, Liza, because you will want it
tomorrow, as to refuse to help the poor,
because of poverty there is no end. I remember,
dear, the lassitude that succeeded
pleasure in perpetuity, the disgust excess of
anything brings in its train, and I would not
change my aims for anything, no, not even
for the horses and diamonds you suggest ;

neither would you, Liza, unless I am, indeed,
mistaken in you

'What would you do, Eoger, if you discovered
I was an entirely different creature
from the one you imagine me to be ? ' asked
Liza impulsively. ' After all, you do not
know me  the real me  in the very least.'

'I may not,' said Eoger easily; 'but it
strikes me I am possessed of a very fair copy
of the original; and if not, I can hardly
blame you because you do not come up to
a self-composed picture. We hear a good
deal of disillusionment, of people being
disappointed in then friends ; but no one
seems to recognise that the disappointment
is caused by the picture, which is self-drawn,
not resembling the original, into whose
mind we are not long-sighted enough to
have peered ; and not by the individual
himself, who most probably is entirely
ignorant of how we regard him.'

'But have you never been disappointed,
really?' asked Liza. ' Have you never pinned
your faith on someone, and been dashed to
the ground in a moment by discovering you
had worshipped and adored a creature who
was utterly unfit to be spoken to, much less
loved ? '

'I can't say I have,' said Koger after a
moment's pause. ' Still I have known people
who Jive felt such a blow; but then, awful
as it is at the time, a little reflection will
show how, if we pin our whole faith upon
the virtues and goodness of any mortal, weare
liable to these agonies. Who can rely on
himself ? Therefore, why should we be so
angry when outsiders fail us. After all, weare
but human, and to err is human, as
doubtless you are aware.

Then you would not mind if I failed you ? '
asked Liza, pressing her hand to her heart.
1 It would not kill you if some day, for

example, I sickened of your work  of the
dull routine  and I left you ? '

'What a dreadful question to ask,' said
Eoger smiling. ' No, Liza, it would not kill
me. Men have died, you know, and worms
have eaten them, but not for love. But you
would take all the sunshine out of my life,
little woman, and leave me to walk in darkness,
so I beg of you not to do anything of
the kind ; but even if you did, I should be
thankful for the happiness I have had, and
try to find extenuating circumstances for
you

You could remember my mother is mad,'
said Liza in a low tone of voice.

You talk of my not being an orthodox
lover,' said Eoger; ' but upon my word, Liza,
you are the most melancholy of governesses,
as my small cousin calls his youthful
betrothed, who is six, I believe. One would
think you meditated some crime.'

'Or getting rid of one replied Liza,
strangely impelled to tell Roger the whole
secret of her past. ' Remember what Mr.
Knightonon said : " a person possessed of an
unconfessed sin is as dangerous to public
health as an infectious creature." '

Now, listen to me, Liza,' said Roger
seriously ; ' take my advice for once in your
life. I don't believe in your being possessed of
any dreadful secret, but if you are, don't tell
me ; I 'am but mortal, and after we are married
I might be tempted to bring it up against
you, you know; don't even tell me the
names of any of those whose all too fragile
hearts you have broken, or the number of
new frocks you have had when the money
should have gone elsewhere ; neither confide
in me all the horrors with which your dear
father made you conversant. I have seen
one side of your character, remember what
I said about Will's flowers. I only want to

see the good side of a thing ; if you show me
the other I won't look at it. If I let you see
I believe you to be all that is good, true, and
sweet, you won't have the heart to be anything
else ; and then even you can forget
you have the other one in your composition.
Don't brood over your mother's illness either ;
you and I both know it is not hereditary.'

4 If you wanted good advice,' said Liza
persistently, ' who would you go to, Roger ? '

That is not answering my last remark,'
replied Roger easily. ' I don't want advice ;
I only wish to give you some. Now let us
change the subject, and talk about our
honeymoon ; it is to be America, is it not ? '

Answer me first,' persisted Liza. ' You
refuse to contemplate any side of my character
save the best ; there is another, Roger.
Mr. Knightonon's words have set me thinking ;
I may want advice thereon ; who shall I goto?'


1 Come to me, if you must ask advice,'
replied Koger; 'or go to Will himself; lie
has a cool head, and a shrewd head, too ; he
really ought to have been a lawyer. But if
you will be guided by me, Liza, you too
will refuse to see anything but our future
together, spent for good and the human race ;
let the past die, dear child; your father is
responsible for it, not you, not you.'

My past will not die said Liza trembling;
or, rather, if it be dead, the ghost thereof
seems inclined to haunt me cruelly.'

Then let Wilfrid Knightonon lay it to rest,'
replied Koger. ' Come, Liza, here is home ;
you are tired and inclined to be morbid, you
want your dinner, and have done too much.
I venture to say that in an hour your
troublesome spirits will all have vanished
into the thin air they are, and that you will
be a different creature,' and so saying he
opened the door with his latch-key, and

VOL. II. m

allowed Liza to precede him into the house,
without seeing in the dim light of the hall-lamp
that she was trembling in every limb,
and that her eyes were full of heavy and
unshed tears.

IN ST. BARNABAS' VESTRY.

Although a casual observer might not have
discovered any especial change in Liza, it
was impossible to doubt that something or
other was altering her character rapidly, and
that she was pondering deeply on some
problem, too abstruse to place before anyone
in plain words.

Naturally the Miss Farmers comfortably
placed her long fits of abstraction and
meditation clown to the fact of her engagement
to Roger; while Roger himself was
satisfied to believe her state of mind only
what was usual in a girl who was so soon

VOL. II. m 2

going to be married, and begin an entirely
different life to any she could have imagined
would have been in store for her; and few
people would have been more astonished than
those nearest to the unfortunate girl, had
they known of what Liza was thinking
during the long hours she sat with folded
hands, passive and silent, and doing nothing-save
brood over the course that should be
hers in the future. It was impossible for
her now to contemplate marriage with Eoger,
without appealing to some one for advice on
the subject.

She had, indeed, bought her soul ; it was
a question if the price she had to pay
would not force her to mortgage the whole
of her future, and to forfeit her very life
itself.

Whenever she could creep away alone, she
went to St. Barnabas' and listened to Wilfrid
Knightonon's prayers and short discourses.

But though the music and the mere soothing
repetition of familiar words seemed to pour
oil on the troubled waters for a moment,
there was rarely a time that some sentence
of Mr. Knightonon's did not go home to the
mark, and stir once more the long forgotten
wound to acute agony ; though now and
again, as he spoke of the eternity of hope,
and told numerous stories of forgiveness
for even the worst of sinners, she felt
impelled to wildly throw up her arms and
cast herself before the altar, feeling that
she would also cast there a burden that was
now become unendurable.

There was something fascinating to her in
the very suffering; and when at times she
spoke to Eoger of her visits to the tiny
church, mocking at herself for her sudden
access of devotion, which was not to be
explained, she said, by the ordinary rules
of common-sense, she could have almost

screamed her secret in the ears of her lover,
although she knew that such a confession
would have slain at a blow every atom of love
he bore her.

It was curiously fantastic, too, the way in
which she would appear to stand aside from
her own individuality, and gaze critically at
herself. In these moods she felt nothing
but sorrow for herself; or, rather, not for
herself, but for the ignorant sinful creature
of whom, it appeared to her, she had heard
in bygone ages, but with whom she herself,
as an individual, had never had much todo.


It was impossible that she, Liza Standen,
Eoger Willoughby's affianced wife, could be
identical with the girl  solitary, ignorant of
all save evil, who, steering by a false chart,
had been wrecked well-nigh in port, with her
who, because she had never known good
from bad, had come utterly to grief, mortgaging

her whole future by an action she
had been taught to think meritorious, and
only necessary to keep secret because of the
prejudices of a shallow world, possessed of
a code of morals that could not bear the
smallest investigation ; almost as impossible
as it was now for her to marry her lover
without asking some one's opinion on the
matter; someone whose code of morals was
well tried, and on whose advice she could
rely.

Some casual words dropped by Eoger, and
borne out by the sermon she heard in St.
Barnabas', determined her at last in her
choice of an adviser.

She would clearly like to have put a
hypothetical case to Roger himself, but this
she did not dare to do.

She loved him so curiously, so truly, that
she knew she could not have concealed the
truth from him ; and whatever happened,

however fate treated her, she was fully
determined that Eoger should never know
the truth  never think of her, save as a
girl he had loved, and who loved him ; asa
misguided, perhaps as a mad, woman ;
but one whose life was pure and free from
sin, and of whom he could think with
affection to the last.

No; whatever happened, Eoger's love for
her should survive, should not fall dead
suddenly, killed as love can be killed by one
blow; killed so utterly, so entirely, that
nothing, neither in this world nor the next,
can bring about a resurrection ; for there is
no death so hopeless, so entire, as the death
love dies ; no death that is so bereft of
anything like consolation or mitigation ;
and this Liza felt and knew would be the
case did Eoger ever discover what she really
was.

At present he did love her  he was attracted

to her by her very difference to other girls ;
he saw her strangely altered from the outspoken,
irreligious, selfish, savage creature
that he had known first ; he perceived in hera
willing instrument ready to hand, for him to
employ on his many works of charity among
his poor friends, and could only see in this
change his own handiwork, and in consequence
appreciated it fully; and Liza felt
instinctively that, though such a love as
Eoger's  unromantic, prosaic as it was  would
grow immensely merely because she became
his wife, it would not kill him to lose her, nor
render life unbearable for him, because she
slipped away from him in some manner as yet
undetermined upon. Liza's love was of an
entirely different kind ; the whole force of her
untrained nature constrained her to give him
all she had to give, and when she reflected
on the life she might have had, and that
which must be hers, she wrung her hands

together in agony, the while she felt the conflict
in her heart more than she could bear.
Oh ! how she wished she could have remained
a savage, with her sense of right and wrong
undeveloped entirely ; with her course of
conduct only to be guided by what she desired
and what pleased her ; but it was impossible
to go back now to her state of darkness, and
the only thing left to her was the necessity
of settling what she was to do.

Having determined to speak to Wilfrid
Knightonon, the next thing was to find her
opportunity. She had discovered that the
seal of confession is as binding on the
Anglican as on the Roman priest, and she
pleased herself by reflecting that her secret
would still remain a secret, although she
would have transported half her burden from
her soul to that of another person, the while
she need take no advantage of his advice, did
it not quite fulfil her expectations.

For she had one great hope, that Mr.
Knightonon would tell her she was not accountable
for her actions, any more than is the child
who sets fire to a house to see the pretty blaze,
and has no conception of what he is doing ;
or than the savage, who kills his father or
mother because it is the best thing to do for
useless creatures whose lives have become a
burden to the possessor, and are a barrier, at
the same time, between their children and
prosperity; and that her repentance, her
deep sense of guilt, and her intense and
real desire to spend and be spent in God's
service, would clear away the cloud that
hung over her past, and allow her to enter
on a future that should be all the nobler,
all the fairer, because of what she had gone
through.

At last it was necessary, if she meant to
speak at all, that she must do so at once, or it
would be too late, for the days seemed

positively to race away  April appeared
scarcely born before May had come, and May
slipped silently along after April, bringing
June and Liza's wedding day nearer and
nearer and nearer.

The wedding clothes came home, and
were cynically regarded by the bride, who
wondered bitterly who would finally wear the
lovely dress, chosen affectionately by Miss
Farrer at the best milliner's in London ; and
as each day brought some further addition to
the wedding paraphernalia, Liza determined
she must lose no more time if she meant to
speak at all ; and set off one morning early,
determined that she would force herself to
pause and save Roger, if only to contradict
something that kept whispering to her, that
she never really meant to do anything so
stupid as tell of herself ; nothing so suicidal
as confess to a crime that no one ever knew
had been committed, and that, above all, no

one had suffered for. As Liza hurried through
the still, early morning streets, on her way to
the half-past six service at St. Barnabas', she
felt the sense of self-pity and separation from
herself that had been hers so long now a
thousandfold increased. Here she was,
young, handsome, rich; envied of all, loved,
too; and yet there was not one soul  poor,
shabby, hard working, hungry even, that she
passed, who would have taken her burden on
them, or exchanged their lives with hers !
She envied the rag-gatherer poking about the
heaps of debris, the flower-girls hurrying
home from Co vent Garden with their fragrant
baskets full of blossoms, the coffee-stall men
chaffing their customers; aye, even the
wearied policemen who were tramping home
off duty, after a long spell of watching over
the sleeping city. And as she paused now
and then and looked round her, or up at the
clear, bright, happy May sky, she found herself

actually laughing at the idea of her
secret, and the horror they would one and
all have felt had the street people known who
and what she was.

Just before she reached the little church,
the sharp, discordant bell of which was
snappishly announcing that the service was
about to begin, she met a flower-girl, whose
basket she had often half-emptied in St.
Barnabas' honour. The girl stopped timidly,
and held up her wares, not yet divided and
arranged, but just as she had purchased them
from the market  great clumps of lilacs and
laburnums, bunches of cowslips, and some
more fragile and costly roses and a little
mignonette crowded her basket, and Liza,
giving her a couple of sovereigns, motioned to
her to come inside the porch and lay them
down by the font for use later on. The girl
did as she was desired, blessing Liza forcibly,
and calling down a hundred thousand good

angels to befriend her and give her every
happiness. Her wishes were poured out at
Liza's feet with the eloquence of an Irishwoman,
and as the girl silenced her, she yet
took the flow of words as a good omen, and
sat through the dreamy, quiet service among
the flowers, hoping that at last peace and
hope would be hers.

It was a curious sight that early service ;
half-a-dozen women and about twenty men
coming in to the quiet place for ten minutes'
commune with an unknown power, reducible'
to common sense, or feel, or touch,
before going out into the world to earn their
daily bread ; a species of homage paying, or a
buckling on of the armour for the fight, that
can but impress the veriest agnostic, who,
while he knows nothing confessedly, cannot
help feeling that here is something that
may be unexplainable, but yet is real and
an indisputable fact, and that renders folk

who go to such a service different from
the world at large  more honest, more
loving, more devoted to doing good for the
world generally, more healthy, and more
hopeful !

Little as Liza cared for or understood what
was going on, the peaceful scene reached her
heart, and as she waited until the service
was ended, and even the sacristan gone, with
one look at her and her fragrant surroundings,
she felt stunned, silent, and as if she
never could break that sacred calm by any
words of hers ; but it had to be done,
and when Mr. Knightonon came down in
his cassock to thank her for the flowers
his poor people in the crowded attics and
cellars would so much appreciate, she looked
up at him, and said in a strange, hard
voice 

I have something I want to tell you.
Something you must consider sacred and

keep as a secret. Can you do this, Mr.
Knightonon ? '

Mr. Knightonon looked at her anxiously ; he
knew all her previous story, and had seen in
her constant attendance at his church a
hopeful sign, as he considered, of her ultimate
reception into his own especial branch of the
Faith; and thinking probably that she was
going to ask him for instruction, and to tell
him what he knew before  viz., of her utter
lack of orthodox training, he said kindly 

1 think I know what you would tell me.
But I can promise you secrecy. What you
tell me is, of course, sacred. We Anglicans
believe most emphatically in the seal of confession.
But will you not come into the
vestry and let us talk there. People come inhere
sometimes ; they know the church is
always open  we might be interrupted.'

'It is too early said Liza; 'I would
rather be here. I like this church. There

VOL. II. N

is a feeling of safety, of peace. How I wish I
were you, Mr. Knightonon, and need never
come away from it all. Directly I get outside,
I lose the sense of reality I find here,
and see how absurd it all is.'

Absurd ! What is absurd ? ' asked Mr.
Knightonon, leaning on the font and looking
down at Liza, whose restless fingers were
already busily engaged in making the flowers
into bunches.

Oh ! all this she answered easily, pointing
to the altar, where the candles were
burning brightly still. 'If I were God, I
shouldn't care one morsel for this. As long

as people . Oh ! but there, I don't want

to discuss religion. I want help, and I think
you can give it me. Are you at all nervous ?
Can you bear to be startled ? Do you ever
hear anything very awful when you go from
death-bed to death-bed ? Very, very awful ?
If not, I am afraid you cannot help me,

after all,' and she lost the flippant tone in
her voice, and, clasping her hands, looked up
at Mr. Knightonon's astonished and perplexed
face.

My dear young lady he said, after a
moment's pause, 'I go about the worst courts
in London. I have for years been the confidant
of thieves and murderers, and have
heard things I do not dare to remember
from lips that were growing stiff in death,
even as the words were uttered. Do you
think anything you can have to tell me will
be more than I can bear? I do wish you
would come into the vestry and let us talk
quietly there. I think I shall soon be able
to set your mind at rest,' and Mr. Knightonon
held out his hand to Liza as if to help her to
rise.

'No, no,' she answered hurriedly; * I can
only speak here, and now. Don't look at me;
look somewhere else, and I'll try to get it out.

VOL. II. n 2

Only recollect you are sworn to secrecy, and
for God's sake help me if you can and
then, as Mr. Knightonon looked away from her,
Liza crouched lower and lower, until her face
was almost hidden in the flowers, and in a
harsh hard voice, said  * No one knows  no
one suspects  no one has suffered ; but, Mr.
Knightonon, it was I who killed my father. I
want to know what I am to do ? '

For a few seconds Wilfrid Knightonon
neither spoke nor moved ; the silence in the
church was intense. Liza's chest heaved
rapidly ; her breathing  hurried, agonised,
painful  seemed to race the sober tick of the
vestry clock; the flowers fell in a heap on
the floor, and the sound recalled the clergyman
to himself, and with a fixed, white face,
he turned and looked at Liza, who was gazing
at him with eyes that burned like live
coals, and with a face as white as his own.
All at once he recollected that his brother

had told him Lady Standen's history, and
he believed he understood. Of course, the
poor girl was following in her mother's
footsteps  she was mad. The confession
was the first real sign of the breaking out of
the insanity. He would humour her. It was
not a case for the church, after all. Then he
said 

My dear daughter, calm yourself, and tell
me if you can what you mean. Remember I
did not know your father. Why did you kill
him ? and how ? You must tell me all before
I can advise you ; but be cautious ; try and
recollect if it were you really that did this
deed  that you have not fancied it.'

Fancied it ! ' broke in Liza impatiently,
feeling, now that the ice was broken, she
must tell the whole thing or die. * How could
I have fancied it. At first I was glad of my
own courage, my determination ; but since
the day I left Bridgeport!! and came among

my fellow-creatures, I have been haunted ; forever
he has stood by me, jeering. The separation
he caused in life between me and other
people is made a thousand times worse by
his death, and yet I only did what he told me
to do over and over again. I cannot understand,
I cannot, I cannot ; ' and once more
Liza clasped her hands and looked with
agony at the clergyman.

What cannot you understand ? ' he asked
gently, placing one of his hands on her
head.

I cannot understand this heap of tangled
threads we call life said Liza; ' listen, Mr.
Knightonon. You know my story, how I was
brought up. My father, believing in neither
God nor devil, swore no child of his should
be travelled by the cords of old superstitions ;
that if I wanted a religion I should find it
out for myself, and that no one would ever
be religious, or, as he called it, superstitious,

if they were not made so by inheritance and
education. He sneered at everything  at
goodness, at purity; and, believing in nothing
himself, he took care that I should not too.
He demonstrated that God was an impossibility,
and that the reason we enjoyed the
world so little was because we were always
looking out for another with one eye, and
were forced to look after the doings of the
devil with the other ; that we should make
the utmost we could of our powers of enjoyment,
and that, in fact, we should do precisely
as we liked, so that it did not interfere
with our health, and that we did nothing
disgraceful. He had high notions of one's
duty to one's neighbour, and would not have
injured anyone unless they interfered with
him ; he believed in honour and cleanly
living, and that is about all ; and he maintained
that directly a man grew old, useless,
or a nuisance to himself and society in general,

that it was someone's duty to put him
gently to sleep for ever. Often, how often,
has he discussed this, and maintained that
a person who had the courage to painlessly
remove a great sufferer, or a very
old and troublesome person, was one of the
greatest benefactors the world could possibly
possess.'

He talked as many people do, never
meaning his words to take form,' said Mr.
Knightonon gently, as Liza paused for a
moment. ' I can see it all, clear Miss
Standen. You handed him some medicine,
and he drank it and died of his own freewill.
I '

No, no ! ' interrupted Liza, 'it was not so.
But listen, please, if you can, while I try to
tell you the whole matter ; he used to suffer
agonies of pain sometimes, and even used to
say he only wished he had courage to put an
end to it all. Sometimes I would ask him

what prevented him, when he had no expectation
of another existence ; and he invariably
would answer, only the same sort of
cowardice that prevents the owner of an
aching tooth going to a dentist and having it
out ; he knows if the wrench were once over
the ache would go, hut it's the dread of the
wrench that keeps him cursing at the pain
without the courage to put an end to it.
My case exactly' he used to say. k ' I
dread the choking, or whatever it is, that
puts a stop to my pain ; besides, life is
interesting, there's always something going
on to read about, and I am sometimes
free of pain also, and can enjoy my dinner,
and look forward to tomorrow's." So
he would go on, Mr. Knightonon, sometimes
toying with the poison he always kept ready,
sometimes begging me to put him out of the
world without his knowing, and then taunting
me by saying he meant to live years, and

keep me away from the world, which he
would never allow me to see  sometimes I
think he was mad.'

No doubt, no doubt murmured Mr.
Knightonon; ' it was an awful, awful life for you

So awful, that I could bear it no longer
said Liza fiercely. ' I felt my youth slipping
away from me ; I remembered my father's
lessons, and his prayers to me to put him to
sleep for ever. I recollected his stories of
the savages, and I saw no reason why I
should not release both of us with one blow 
him from his awful sufferings, which had
been something terrible the day I did it ; and
myself from a bondage that was rapidly driving
me mad. Sometimes,' she added, pressing her
hands to her forehead, ' sometimes I think I
am mad. I can only understand one thing 
that I cannot marry Koger ; that he must
not know what I am, and that you must help
me to get away.'

But you have not told me what you did,'
said Mr. Knightonon.

I gave him prussic acid in his draught
said Liza ; ' he swallowed it at a gulp, and
then  he died  hi a moment, in a moment 
and I was free, and so was he. When I
heard he was dead in the morning, and that
he must have died anyhow in a few weeks, I
began to feel dreadfully sorry ; but then the
doctor's wife suspected me, and I had to use
all my energies to prevent her finding a clue.
Her husband was a drunken, careless man 
it was easy  he to this day thinks he did it.
There was no inquest, of course ; all our little
world knew he had heart-disease, and would
die at any moment. Then, when he was
dead, I heard about my mother. I believed
he had shut her up, as he had shut me up for
years, and I rejoiced I had had courage to
send him away ; but she was really mad,
poor soul, and I thought I should have gone

mad too when I saw my father had been
right there. All through I seemed to have
done the deed for nothing, cursed my whole
life with an action that is doubly cursed,
because it was unnecessary; because, if I
had not done it, I should have been, free all
the same. Ah ! tell me,' she added in an
agonised tone of voice ; ' Ah ! tell me, how
can I get rid of my guilt  how become like
other people  remember, I have never had a
chance ? '

I do not quite know what you wish me todo,'
replied Mr. Knightonon, trembling despite
his manhood at the evident anguish the
poor girl was enduring. ' Why have you
been constrained to tell your secret  and
to me ? '

'Because I have found my soul said Liza ;
because I cannot believe my father is right,
and there is no God. If there was not, and
there was no future life, there would be no

reason why we should not all do exactly as
we liked, if we were not found out. I love
Eoger Willoughby, and I know I must never
marry him. What can I do  oh ! what can
I do to be saved ? I only ask one thing  only
one  he must never know what I am, it
would break his heart, and for nothing 
nothing. Why is it that we can never sin,
never do the smallest evil deed, without
some innocent person suffering ? '

It is a law of God. The sins of the fathers
are inevitably visited on the heads of the
children replied the priest; 'a strong, marvellous
law that should, above all, be the one
to be obeyed by us here ; for if we do but
obey it the curse is lost. My poor, poor child
he added, as Liza once more hid her face,
and sobs broke from her lips ; ' you have
indeed mortgaged your future here. I must
take counsel with others before I can give
you advice. Maybe you will have to make

your confession before God and man in open
court ; you have broken man's laws as well
as God's, and man requires reparation before
forgiveness can be obtained.'

'You are sworn to secrecy,' said Liza,
starting to her feet ; ' remember the seal of
confession ; you may not ask advice without
being foresworn.'

In cases like yours,' said Mr. Knightonon
soothingly, ' we are bound to call on older
and wiser heads than our own for help ; we
name no names, and we simply, at a council
held fin secret, place a hypothetical case
before those whose help we have asked for.
I must do this. How can I at once tell you
what should be your next step ? Thank God,
who has touched your heart, and given you
another chance of salvation.'

I do not thank Goal yet ; I would to
heaven I had never been made to doubt I
had done right,' said Liza fiercely. * How I

have suffered ! how I have suffered ! ' she
added moaning to herself. ' If I had never
met Koger  never loved him ! There are
many worse sinners in the world than I am,
after all. I will live a good life  I will marry
him, and be very, very happy.'

As well can a person, ill of some incurable
disease, say they will live a long life and be
happy,' replied Mr. Knightonon sadly. ' At all
events, your suffering must have taught you
that this is impossible ; at all events, you must
wait to hear from me. It may be that my
superiors in experience and knowledge may
allow you to be innocent, because you
sinned in ignorance  because your father was
a thousand times more to be blamed than
you are. They may say, go and sin no more;
but I do not think they will ; forgiveness is
possible only from God ; it is a hard case, a
hard case  I cannot solve it by myself. You
have injured none save yourself; still, there

must be punishment  there could never befor
you the calm married life  the matron's
crown  the little children

Yet look at Lady Margaret Dey,' interrupted
Liza ; ' she has all this ; but the day
she ran away with the son of her father's
oldest friend from the roof of a senile old
husband, to whom she was married in her
early girlhood, her mother dropped down
dead. Look at Mrs. Stewart, and, oh ! a
thousand others, who murdered their husband's
present and their children's future  it
is unfair, unfair ! '

Not so, they sinned ; they will have then
punishment as you have yours,' replied Mr.
Knightonon. ' We may never know it, but
there is no sin that goes unpunished either
by God or man ; but, Miss Standen, we must
not think of others, only of you. What can
you do until you hear from me ? Can you
go down into the country for a week  anywhere

 quite alone ; at least alone as far as
Mr. Willoughby is concerned ? You should
have some kind friend with you.'

1 could go to Bridgeporth, I should like
it,' said Liza eagerly; ' but remember, Mr.
Knightonon, I have told you this under the
seal of confession ; if I like to forget you
know it, you must forget it too ; in that case,
pray we may never meet again.'

Pray rather that you may have courage
given you to abide by the decision of the
Church replied Mr. Knightonon. ' God has
found you*; you pay but a small price, after
all, even if you give up the whole of your
future, your very life itself, if you have
purchased heaven  there is no limit to God's
forgiveness, remember that

There is ; or He would wipe all my past
away and give me Roger,' said Liza fiercely.

'You would despise Him if He did,' said
Mr. Knightonon quietly. ' You would, as a

VOL. II. o

child, despise a human father who could see
his laws broken and exact no penalty ; much
more an unseen Parent, who must enforce
the laws He has made, or be stultified from
His own lips. Give up your will to Him,
dear Miss Standen, let Him have His way
with you; remember our life here is but a
small thing, our life to come is worth all we
pay for it

But suppose there is no other life persisted
Liza.

Even supposing such a case as that,'
replied Mr. Knightonon firmly, ' we leave our
memory behind us ; your conduct, your
leaving now may have an influence on others
you little dream of, if only to teach the
lesson that sin always finds the sinner out.
Leave the next world alone, do your duty
here, live a noble life, and even if there be
nothing beyond the grave you will have your
reward. You might as well say no tomorrow

shall succeed to-night's gloom as that there
shall be no heaven. But I must go, Miss
Standen, if you can possibly spare me now;
I am unhinged, ill, and have work to do.
Tell me, will you go down to Bridgeporth
with Miss Farrer ? I will write to you
there, I will pray for you, and as soon as
I know what the council advise I will
write again. Pray for courage to bear the
decision, for strength to keep the soul  the
future  you have bought at such an awful
cost.'

Do you not feel as if you hated me 
loathed me ? ' asked Liza. ' Do you realise
that I am a murderess  a murderess ? ' she
added, with a ghastly laugh. ' I always
thought a murderess was covered with blood,
an object for loathing. Who would think I
was such an one to look at me ? and yet the
spring flowers do not bloom for me any more ;
I have no summer, no summer like other

VOL. II. o 2

girls, and I did want, I do want to be happy
for once. It is hard  hard ! '

It is dreadfully hard said Mr. Knightonon,
feeling he could not bear this any more ;
'dreadfully hard; but see, I do not shrink
from you, I long only to save you from yourself.'


You cannot tell me I may be absolved,
may marry Eoger and be happy ? ' said Liza
looking up at him.

How can I  would you wish it yourself,'
asked Mr. Knightonon. ' Come, Miss
Stanclen, shall I walk home with you ? '

How prosaic it all sounds, " shall I
walk home with you"' repeated Liza;
sometimes, when dinner comes up and I eat
it, and the sun shines and I bask in it,' she
added, ' I don't believe I ever gave papa that
poison ; I don't think I could be a murderess
in my French dress and fine lace. Ah ! I
can't talk any more ; I will go to Bridgeport!!

and think. Good-bye. Don't come with me.
If I do not get away from you, now you know
my secret, I shall go mad too  mad like my
mother, you know and she laughed again
her horrid little laugh.

Mr. Knightonon gave Liza her gloves, and
watched her carefully as she drew them on
over her slender white hands ; and then
leaving the tiny church with her, he walked
with her a few paces on her way to Eaton
Square. Just as he was about to put her
into a cab, she said : ' but don't think I am
mad, Mr. Knightonon; I only wish I were.'

No, I will only think just what you tell
me,' he replied. ' Send me your address,
and go down to Cornwall as soon as you can,
you will wait for my news better there.'
Then as she answered him briefly, and he
saw the cab drive away, with an intense
feeling of relief, he turned to go home, and
came face to face with his brother.

'Hullo! Wilfrid, what's the matter ?'
said Dr. Knightonon, 'have you and Miss
Standen been seeing ghosts ? '

Don't ask me, old boy replied the vicar,
for heaven's sake ; let me go home and be
quiet for a few hours ; I have a great deal todo
 to think about.'

Don't worry over any little peccadilloes
Miss Standen may have been confessing to
you,' said the doctor easily ; ' the chief
always says her joining her mother with us
is only a matter of time  he discovered it in
her eyes the first moment he saw her. Poor
girl, poor girl ! Ah ! Wilfrid, all these
inheritances seem more like the work of
the devil than a beneficent God ; your faith
is all very well he added, ' safe in your
little flowery church, but in our place, I
can tell you, I feel it hard to cling on to
anything

Come in with me said Mr. Knightonon, ashe

reached his own door, and without
replying to his brother's last remark. Then
as he reached his study, he motioned to the
doctor to take a chair, and distinguished
himself by reeling to the sofa, on which he
fell prone in a dead faint.

THE CRUEL MIST CREPT UP AND HID THE

LAND.'

Down in Cornwall there seemed little to
remind Liza of the bright spring world she
had left behind her in London.

True the ferns were uncurling themselves
from the niches in the stone walls where they
had slept snugly all the winter, but there are
no trees round Bridgeporth, and the long
stretches of rugged coast were hidden in a
soft grey mist that was well-nigh ghostly,
and gave a curious intangible feeling to life
that was, indeed, singular.

It seemed as if an army of spirits was

beleaguering the Holt, and keeping away all
the outside elements of life that, even at its
best, was not superabundant in the little seaport
sacred to fishermen, and poor Miss
Hyacinth Farrer began to wonder if ever she
should see again the bright crowded streets
she loved, or ever return once more to take
her place among the living.

The Holt was untenanted, save for Mrs.
Lukerr and her husband, who were sincerely
glad to see one of the family again, and had
both a great deal to say on the subject of the
iniquities of the gentleman who had lived in
the Holt, they-believed, because he wished to
hide from his creditors ; and they were so
much nicer to Liza than they had ever been,
that she began to wonder whether she had
not better make up her mind altogether to
live in Cornwall, turning the Holt into a
species of convalescent home, to which she
could devote the life that she felt more and

more could never be lived among other people
on an equal footing again.

Impelled by some mysterious foreboding of
evil, Liza had settled her money matters with
her lawyer the day before she had left town,
and had left all she could leave to Roger,
because, as she stated in her will, she knew
no one who could do more with it all than he
could ; but when she heard Mrs. Lukerr's
rejoicing over the marriage, and her happy
prognostications that new heirs would keep
out that dreadful young man, Sir Charles, from
the Holt, to whom it must go should Liza die
childless, she felt an additional pang strike to
her heart, because the old place must pass
away from her at last, and because she could
never leave it to Roger among all the rest of
her belongings ; and something of this fell
from her lips one day when she was looking
over a great box full of her father's papers,
the day before she was to receive the letter

from Mr. Knightonon, in which he was to lay
before her the plans proposed by his superiors
in the Church.

Miss Farrer looked up at Liza apprehensively,
' My clear child,' she said, ' to hear you
talk, one would think you were going to be
buried, not married. I do not think I ever
saw a bride as melancholy as you are ; of course
a certain amount of regret and reluctance are
right, but you never speak of the future at all.'

How can I, when you all persistently teach
me that the future may never come ? ' asked
Liza. ' I am unhappy, dear Miss Farrer,
very unhappy ; - this old house brings back
my girlhood so vividly ; I seem never to have
been away from it, and all the old desolate
feelings return to me here as I never
thought they could. I never look up without
expecting to see my father with the well-known
sneer on his lips, and I never come
into the house without wincing at the

recollection of some of his speeches ; then,
too, these papers are not pleasant reading.
Ah ! I wonder why so many people keep compromising
letters, and hoard rubbish like this ;
they certainly ought not, if they mean to be
respected when dead. Now, I might die tomorrow,
and there would not be one letter
left behind that could hurt me or anyone else
either, I am thankful to say.'

'Don't talk of dying, dear Liza,' said Miss
Hyacinth with a shudder, drawing up her
soft black Shetland shawl over her shoulders,
and giving the fire another poke. ' I do wish
I could see you more like other girls, more
interested in the future and in Roger. The
poor boy could hardly make you out the day
you left town, and he felt it very much I
know, that you would not allow him to comedown
here and help you look for the old lease
you said you must find for yourself; he
would have been livelier company than I am,

and he could have got out ; this dreadful mist
would not have daunted him.'

1 All ! poor Eoger ! ' said Liza sadly.
1 Dear Miss Hyacinth, whatever happens, I
do hope you will remember I loved him
dearly. I could not let him come here. I
wanted to be alone. 1 could not let him see
all my father's papers yet. I wonder,' she
added, coming to Miss Farrer's side, and
kneeling down by her, ' I wonder why I was
born ; why I came into this most unhappy
world.'

To make us all very, very happy,' said
Miss Hyacinth 'soothingly. ' Why, Liza,
dearest, look what your presence under our
roof has done for us both, to say nothing of
our dear boy. I will confess to you, love,
what I would never confess to anyone else 
that before you came to us, I have lain
awake all night and wondered what my poor
Julie would do when I could no longer see to

her little comforts. Now you have made our
future safe, and I shall riot have to work for
her again ; I don't mind taking from Roger's
wife, the girl Roger loves, anything now,
for you have appreciated being with Julie
and learning from her. She is a noble
creature, Liza dear. Oh ! if you could only
have seen her in her girlhood  only knew
what we have suffered ! Your hand has
removed all this, and you have made us all
very happy. Do look forward, dear ; leave
the past alone and she put her delicate,
white hand on Liza's head, and looked down
at her anxiously, wondering what there was
in the prospect of marriage that made Liza
so sad, so wistful.

It is something to have made you happy,
dearest,' she replied after a pause, gently
kissing the sweet old hand that was stretched
out to her ; ' but I want you to promise me
that, whatever happens, you will try to love

me ; however I turn out, that you will
remember how I was brought up. It all
comes back to me here, clear Miss Hyacinth ;
and when I think of what my father did and
what he taught me, I cannot believe I ought
to become the wife of such a man as Eoger.
I feel like the lepers of old, as if I should
cover my face and rush into the wilderness,
crying out, " unclean ! unclean ! " Oh. ! if I
could only be an innocent child  a pure
woman, knowing neither good nor evil

Dear Liza/ said Miss Hyacinth, drawing
the shuddering girl into her arms, ' I want
you to listen to me for a moment. I, too,
remember what I felt when the knowledge of
evil was brought home to me. It is painful
for me to speak to you at all about my father,
but I worshipped him. We were brought up
without ever hearing of things that were
wrong; we thought all women pure  all men
chivalrous, true, and gentle. The world tous

was as some unknown fairyland, where
good deeds were done, and grand, beautiful,
mysterious actions were the rule, not the exception.
Can you imagine what we felt when
we had our eyes opened ? When we saw what
evil was, and the whole fabric of our lives
came tumbling about our ears, because the
hand of our father removed the corner-stone ?
Ah ! we suffered then, just as you are suffering
now. Believe me, too, ignorance is not
always innocence ; and that to be innocent
and pure-minded does not necessitate ignorance
too.'

Liza sprang to her feet, and in her impulsive
manner threw her arms round her
old friend, and burst into a tempest of tears.
I can't bear it ! I can't bear it ! ' she cried,
wringing her hands together; then as she
noticed Miss Farrer's face fall, and the
puzzled look in her eyes, she added, ' I will
not frighten you, dear Miss Hyacinth; only

sometimes, when I think of Roger, and what
my life might have been, I feel I cannot bear
it any longer. How can anyone doubt the
separation there is between the soul and the
body who has ever felt the sense of imprisonment
I feel  known the anguish I have
endured? All! I won't think any more; I
will not. After tomorrow, perhaps, you can
help me better than you can now. See ! there
is no chance of the mist breaking, that I am
sure of. We must give up any notion of
leaving the house to-day. Come up into my
room and help me pack up some things for
Roger's poor people ; perhaps active work
will prevent me thinking and Liza dried her
tears, and was soon busily engaged with Miss
Farrer turning out cupboards and presses for
the benefit of one of Roger' s numerous
courts.

When Liza came down to breakfast the
following morning, the sun had struggled

VOL. II. p

through the mist at last, and was shining
brightly down upon the garden and the sea,
though inland great white masses of fog were
to be seen drifting along, and hiding the tops
of the mountains, in a manner that suggested
that the break in the weather was only a
temporary one after all. Exhausted with
weeping Liza had slept soundly the whole
night, and when she was awakened by the
sunshine, she felt that at last she was to be
brought face to face with her fate, and that
to-day at last was to decide her future, if she
chose. She always remembered that no one
save herself could enforce her to pay the
penalty of her sin ; no one save herself should
declare that she could not marry the man she
loved, and become as other people. Her
hand shook a little as she took up the familiar
post bag, and inserted the key, that always
hung on her watch chain. She noticed how
worn and dark the leather had become, and

how rubbed was the crest engraved above
the address upon the lock, and as she turned
the key and took out the letters, she said to
Miss Hyacinth, smiling, ' We shall soon
want a new bag, Miss Farrer ; or shall I leave
this for Sir Charles?' and without waiting for
an answer, she looked hastily through the
mass of correspondence, half hoping, half
dreading to find the letter that she had been
told to expect. Ah ! there it was, there was
no mistaking it ; and Liza put it and Roger's
usual epistle on one side, wondering if she
would ever gain sufficient courage to open it
and read it. She determined that she could
not do so in the house, the walls would
stifle her. She could not be true to herself,
her new found faith, or her lover in a house
that yet seemed impregnated with her father's
presence. She would hurry over the morning's
work, and would go down to Portly arrow Bay,
and read her letters there. In the caves

VOL. II. 1- '2

she would be safe, no one would see her, no
one note how she bore herself that day, to
quote her conduct afterwards against herself;
and determining thus, Liza turned to her
other letters and made herself so merry over
them to Miss Hyacinth, and was altogether
so joyous, that neither she nor the old butler
had any mysterious foreboding words to repeat
to the gossips, when the later events of the
day made every trifling word spoken by Miss
Standen of almost historical interest.

At last the clay's work was over for Liza,
and she set out on her walk ; and when she
turned away from the house and waved her
hand to Miss Hyacinth, the old lady noticed
with pride how young, happy, and handsome
she looked, and as she sat down to
write to Koger, telling him all this, and a
thousand other details about their sojourn at
the Holt, Miss Hyacinth thanked God from
the bottom of her heart for sending Liza to

them, and so giving them all the happiness
and hope that had not been theirs since their
father had disappeared, and their future had
become nothing, save an unromantic struggle
with poverty and ill-health, that the sisters
could not help seeing must end, at last, in
their being beaten in a fight that was a most
unequal one, even the very moment it had
begun.

Liza paused for a moment, and looked
back in her turn at the old house ; after all,
it was her home, where the stormy
years of her early womanhood had been
passed ; where every stone seemed to remind
her of the crime that marred her life, and
stained it with so deep a dye ; where her
father's presence yet appeared to linger, and
where she now knew she could never, never
live any more  after all, it was her home.
Home ! What was home ? Ah ! better let it
pass at once into the hands of Sir Charles

Stan den than live where every stone seemed
a separate condemnation of her past, a
remembrance of that father to whom she
owed all her misery.

On her road to Porthcarrow, she passed
through the churchyard where Sir Armature
lay at rest, and, for a few moments, Liza
stood there by the grave, and wondered
desperately what death could mean  what
any future could be to such a man as her
father had been. She looked from the
grave to the little grey church, where for
generations the same religion had been
taught, the same code of ethics and morals
explained to the villagers of Bridgeporth.
Could all this be false ? all those wonderful
hopes and aspirations so much waste breath ?
Was it, after all, possible that there was
neither God nor Heaven ? neither a present,
watchful Father, nor a future, where crooked
things were all made straight ? If so, her

father was nothing, save a heap of grey dust,
to whose manes nothing was owed ; if not, was
he standing hy her now in agony lest, having
lost his own soul, he had lost that of his child
also ; and knowing that all he was enduring
was to be reproduced in Liza's own case,
thus making his own state a hundred times
worse by contemplation of her great misery.
The weapon he had forged had been turned
against himself, and he had been killed
because he had taught his daughter the
exploded set of morals discarded by a
civilized savage. Did this necessitate a further
sacrifice ? must she indeed suffer because she
had committed a crime which, after all, was
no crime to anyone educated as she had
been ? But God, Eoger's God  the loving
Parent, the stern but truthful Euler of the
Universe ; He who had made the world s< i
beautiful, who gave the impulses that made
men noble, self-sacrificing, honourable He

must, He did exist. Then Liza thought once
more how, on one side, Sir Marmaduke
stood, the outcome of an utterly cynical,
unbelieving education ; on the other, Koger,
whose one idea was work, who would gladly
have laid down his life for those poorer
brethren, for the family whose universal
Father was also his. What had Liza gained
by her emancipation from the ' trammels of
superstition' ? What had her father gained,
or, indeed, what had anyone gained by unbelief,
and what had they given in exchange
for the right to doubt in Heaven ? All ! what ?
The soul's peace, the universal love, the sense
of oneness with God.

The wind began to moan in the tiny weathercock,
which creaked to and fro in a ghostly
manner. Liza shuddered and looked up ;
the great masses of clouds were beginning
to creep up over the sky once more ; now
and then tiny drops of rain fell. The sun had

disappeared ; if she meant to read her letters
in Porthcarrow she must go on her way.
Her disjointed thoughts  tangled threads,
twisted and twirled together raced through
her brain, chasing each other hither and
thither ; now this idea seemed conclusive,
then another one appeared to over-ride that,
and with a head whirling with contradictory
notions, Liza pushed forward to her destination,
scarcely knowing, scarcely seeing the
once-familiar road she trod.

In Porthcarrow Bay the sunshine seemed
yet to linger, the dense black cliffs stood out
glittering in the sunbeams, and the marvellous
many-tinted Cornish sea looked instinct
with life and colour ; the waves swept softly
to the sandy shore, and ran up almost to
Liza's feet as she stood looking out over the
fair scene.

How lovely was the world ! how perfect !
The soft air was redolent of a thousand

odours from the seaweed and the sea ; here
and there a nesting sea-gull rose and swayed
and floated about, returning to its home
among the rocks, and others out at sea were
crying and calling to each other in a manner
that Liza knew presaged a storm before very
long ; but the sun beat down quite hotly,
and in the bay, at least, there was peace 
the peace of nature, the peace that cannot be
marred by man, that passes all understanding
of those who have never been quite alone hi
such a scene as this. Influenced by the quiet,
Liza sought the opening of the Black Cave,
and sat down to read her letters ; she drew
them from her pocket, and looked at them
long and sadly. There was the well-known
square packet from Eoger, directed to her in
the plain legible writing that was so like
Eoger himself  honest, unornamented, useful.
All ! she knew quite well what that
envelope held  an unsentimental, rather

crudely expressed letter, full of plans for his
poor people, just touching, may be, on the
nearness of his wedding-day, because he had
an idea romance should not be quite forgotten,
because women, being weak creatures,
expected something of the kind he knew, but
saying very little of love, and much of the
many who depended on him and on his
shrewd common - sense. And then there
was that other letter, sealed by Wilfrid
Knightonon's mystical seal-ring with the Greek
motto, that she had heard Roger speak of,
and Miss Farrer smile about as one more of
Wilfrid's inoffensive fads. What did it
mean ? Liza wondered ; she must remember
to ask Roger, of course he knew; what did
that letter hold ? A stern mandate ordering
her to confess her crime to the nearest
magistrate, and give herself up to open
shame, and, perhaps, a gallows, or forgiveness
on certain conditions ? She could not tell.

Once more Liza rose, and walking to the
front of the cave, looked out; the sunshine
had gone; the blackness of Porthcarrow's cliffs
seemed reflected in the sea, all the colours
had vanished, and the fog seemed once more
closing in around the horizon ; the wind had
again dropped, and the seagulls were quiet in
their nests. Liza returned, seated herself
on the old stone where she used to play at
tea-parties with her nurse and an invisible
company of mermaids, and broke the seal,
and then drawing out the letter read it straight
through unhesitatingly ; then she laid it down,
and sat thinking, thinking, thinking. The
decree of the Church was that, having forfeited
her life to the State, she should die to the
world, and cease to be one among the living,
and that she should devote herself and her
wealth to the work of the Church in some
distant land ; that she was herself to tell
Koger why she could not marry him; and that,

inasmuch as no one was injured by concealment
of an unsuspected crime, she need
not place herself in the hands of Justice,
since probably she would only endure penal
servitude, which could benefit no one ;
whereas, in the world, taught as she would
be by acute mental suffering, she would be of
untold good in time ; and could nurse and
tend those on whom no one else would wait ;
for the Church's work she would be good
enough to undertake was placed very plainly
before her, and she knew that dressing
wounds and working with her hands as a
nurse, not the higher form of missionary
life, was what was meant by Mr. Knightonon's
sternly worded plans for her future.

Then she took Eoger's letter and read that ;
for a wonder it was written in an entirely
different strain to those he usually sent her;
it was joyously expectant of their new life 
it spoke of then home, their future; what

that home should be ; where hospitality should
be shown without grudging, and where people
should be taught that religion can be loved,
and that a good life is not necessarily a dull
or unamusing one.

Liza laughed bitterly ; she looked first atone
letter then at the other. "Why should
she do this thing? Ah! why? Did God
demand it of her ? What was the Church
after all, that it should lay down the law r
Then came the remembrance of all she had
endured  her restless unsatisfied girlhood 
the knowledge of evil so lavishly given her ;
the temptation that had been hers over andover
again to emancipate herself and her
father at the same time ; her crime, and the
inexorable law that demanded the price of that
crime. Had she had one moment's peace
since the night she did it ; had she had one
instant's peace since she had begun to see
another side to life, and to know that faith

lived, and that God had his own especial
messengers still upon the earth ?

Torn, rent, agonised, Liza at last made up
her mind that God had found her, and that
therefore He should have his way with her.
The Church at all events knew better than
she did, the men that composed it were
older, better educated ; she would cast her
burden on that; she would pay the price,
voluntarily, willingly, if only she could obtain
peace. She could not marry Koger, some
day he might discover what she had done,
she might be delirious and confess it all
then, she might speak of her sin in her
sleep  or she might have children  no,
never ; she would never of her own will bring
into the world an inheritor of her crime,
or bring other lives into that world that,
look at it how one may, is a hard, cruel,
awful place of sojourn. It should be, then, as
Mr. Knightonon ordained.

Liza rose at last and looked at her watch.
She did not quite know what she should do
go back to London and place herself unreservedly
in the hands of Mr. Knightonon's
advisers, she supposed. She could think no
more. She must go home, it was six o'clock,
she had been hours at Porthcarrow  six, why
it was dark; her watch had stopped surely.
Liza roused herself and looked out  she could
see nothing ; a dull grey mass of mist filled
the sky, and as she felt her way to the mouth
of the cave, she saw she was walking in water,
and that the sea had risen, and she was
doomed.

For a moment the girl felt rejoiced at the
fate that was to be hers ; and then the strong
love of life seized her again. Fully roused
now, she determined she would not die in
Porthcarrow  in the place where she had
waded as a baby  it was ridiculous. She
could swim, of course. She had done it

once before ; she knew every inch of the bay,
knew just where the path came clown to the
shore ; she could do it yet.

Hastily dragging off her heavy serge dress
and her boots, she prepared to swim out.
Then she remembered the letters  they must
not be found when she sent clown for her
dress. Ah ! the dress would wash out to sea.
Could she not save Eoger from the knowledge
of her sins; could she not escape from
Bridgeporth, and efface herself, leaving him
to think she was drowned ? At this momenta
wave suddenly heaved through the fog and
came surging in through the cave ; it drenched
Liza to the skin, and caused her to gasp for
breath. There was no time to lose  first,
the letters to be torn into a thousand pieces,
and then to swim for her life. The letter
from Mr. Knightonon was soon destroyed, but
Eoger's  no; she would take Roger's with
her, and some day, some day, she would

VOL. II. ( v >

return when she was very old, and show it to
him, and speak of how she had loved him
too well to marry him  how she had found
her soul and lost her life !

Would Goal listen if she uttered a prayer ?
Ah ! the sea again. Miss Hyacinth in the
Holt drawing-room would be flattening her
dear old face against the glass, and peering
out into the fog, and wondering what Liza
was doing. Liza saw the flicker of the fire
reflected in the melon-shaped silver teapot
she remembered stealing one day to use
for one of her mermaid tea-parties. She

could see ' Heavens ! what was that ? '

Another deeper, heavier wave  this time the
water reached her chin. Liza saw that she
had no more time to lose ; and, wading out
into the sea, she struck out beyond the mouth
of the cave, swimming into the looming,
terrible fog, which appeared to lie low down
on the very top of the ocean, resolving sea,

sky, rocks, or land into one dense, silent,
dark substance. Then, with one half-uttered
prayer to the God of whom she knew so little,
and for whom she sought so anxiously, Liza
steered, as she thought, towards the cliff that
she could not see, yet to reach which required
so little strength, so very little
exertion.

When they found her the next morning
among the black rocks, where the painted sea
moves the long-haired seaweeds to and fro,
they said she must have died in a moment 
without an instant's suffering ; and when she
lay ready for the grave in her coffin, and
Roger and Miss Hyacinth stood looking down
on the girl they had so loved, she looked so
calm, so peaceful, so strangely satisfied, they
could not grudge her her rest, the while
Wilfrid Knightonon, as he read of her fate,

VOL. II. Q 2

thanked God for it, believing that the hand
of death possessed, after all, the only power
that could really arrange or unravel the
tangled threads that represented Liza
Standen's life.

