PROLOGUE.

I.
WO persons, a man and a woman,
gEi |jjj both young and both beautiful,
SJBa were wandering in one of the

rooms of the Roman Capitol. It was on the
picture side of the building, although only containing
sculpture ; it had not been very long
opened, and was a court rather than a room.
Perhaps from not having yet found a place in
the usual guide-books, or because its treasures,

VOL. I.

B

4 You are disappointing, Paul,' she said ;
4 you look at nothing.'

I look at you,' he replied smiling.

You will soon tire of that,' she returned,
smiling, nevertheless, herself, both because
the words were sweet, and because she knew
they were true. She was of a wonderful fairness,
the face a perfect oval, the eyes a deep
grey, not often seen with such colouring as
hers, the hair brown. She was tall, and
moved with extraordinary grace ; it was no
wonder if her husband found nothing in all
the court so beautiful to look at. Just now,
as her eyes, swept with long lashes, rested
upon a small figure standing on a pedestal
near, a far-away look stole into them, and
they became inexpressibly soft and lovely, but
the next moment the dissatisfied look touched
them again. ' Paul,' she said anxiously, ' tell
me really, do you not care for these things ? *

Yes, dear one, because they are dear to
you.''.

She moved from him with a slightly impatient
gesture, but instantly returned.

B 2

6 Come then,' she said kindly, ' and let us
look at them together. Perhaps it is that
you have never opened your heart to them,
and that you must see them first with my
eyes. Then I am sure you will love them.'

It is very possible,' he answered cordially;
but you should remember that I am a thickheaded
fellow.'

She led him round with a pretty air of
explanation which he found charming. She
reflected that, being a man, his sleeping enthusiasm
might be awakened by the representation
of Meleager's hunt on the great Esquiline
sarcophagus ; she showed him the so-called
Nymph of the Capitol, who is, rather, Rhodope,
with her Egyptian vases and asphodels ; and
Hope, always daintily holding out her dress
with her left hand, and the rare and beautiful
little figure of Mother Earth in her square
stone chamber. She had a vast deal to say
about them all, and she said it very prettily;

but by-and-by her words flagged, as she
became conscious that Paul's attention was
forced, and that although he liked listening
to her, he cared nothing at all about the subjects
In the end, they both were silent ; he,
to tell the truth, scarcely noticing the silence,
for his thoughts had leapt away to a letter
which had been put into his hands as he left
the hotel  the first letter which he had ever
concealed from her. And yet it concerned
her at least as much as himself. It was
certain, then, that if he had concealed it, it
was from fear of giving her pain.

Whatever, however, led to his keeping it
back, the act caused the first slight restraint
to spring up between them. Why this should
have been it is difficult to say, since only Paul
knew of it, and he had no reason to vex his
head with questions as to his motives. It may
have been that the subtle influence of love,
reaching from soul to soul, becomes conscious

to its farthest end of the lightest jar which
troubles the string. In the midst of one of
her most charming descriptions the young
wife looked at her husband, and sighed impatiently.
His thoughts were far away.

They went out presently, silent, as they
often were. But now the silence, to her at
least, appeared to be weighted with quite a
new sense of heaviness, and she walked listlessly,
without letting loose the enthusiasms
which generally broke from her as joyously
as song from a bird. She began to wonder
whether Paul had really nothing in common
with what she called the higher part of her
nature, and, if so, what she should do.

Their steps had turned, almost mechanically,
to that broad flight of stairs which leads
from the Capitol to the Forum. No one who
loves Eome can stand there quite unmoved,
and on this day the contrast  which has much
to do with the thrill  the contrast between

ruined centuries and the ever young blue of
the sky was more than usually remarkable.
Beyond the Arch of Severus, columns and
pedestals seem to form a stately march, the
great stones of the Sacred Way lead up to
Titus' Arch, the beautiful brick campanile
of Santa Francesca has for its background
nothing less than the mighty Coliseum itself.
The delight of the view insensibly affected the
young wife, her eyes shone with tears, and
she clasped Paul's arm with both hands as
they went down together, their figures flinging
one bold shadow against the clear sunshine
on the old wall.

This little action of hers aroused him, and
he looked at her with a smile.

You are very happy here, Xorma P ' he
asked, his lips lingering slightly on his wife's
unusual name.

1 It has been my dream all my life,' she
whispered.

c And you would not care to go back to
England a little sooner than we intended ? ' lie
added, after a pause.

6 Oh, Paul, it would break my heart ! '

Break her heart ! And yet they would be
together. She did not see the spasm of pain
which crossed his face at her words. There
were many things in him which she did not
see. As he was silent, she went on 

Xo, dear Paul, pray do not think of such
a thing. Perhaps you do not feel it quite as
I do, but everything here is so beautiful land
so full of interest, that I have an impression
that I never really lived before, and I could
not bear to leave it. Look a}, the lovely weeds
springing out of that bit of brickwork, and
the sunlight upon them  did you ever see
anything so perfect ? '

Well, dear, we will stay,' he said in rather
a dull voice, which disappointed her again.
6 Where are we going now ? '

Just as he asked the question, three persons
came out of the gloom of the Lamartine
prison, and stood on the rough pavement as
if dazzled by the strong throb of sunshine in
which they found themselves.

There are the Hamiltons, and Mr. Lawrence
!' said Xorma joyously. 'Let us join
them.'

And leaving her husband, she ran quickly
down.

He followed more slowly, with a touch
of reluctance for which he reproached himself.


'How selfish I am,' he said, ' to wish that
even the least shadow of anxiety should cloud
her happy life ! It is a poor way, indeed, of
trying to keep sorrow from my darling, when
I feel myself longing that she should know
just a little. As if just a little were not
enough to mar all her delight! I hardly
thought I had been so weak, and it shows me

what a curb I must keep upon myself. God
help me and her ! '

He went slowly down : Mr. Lawrence, who
was his friend, and a year or two older, came
forward to meet him. He had lived a great
deal abroad, and talked well, and with a touch
of satire which women found attractive.

Come with us to the Palatine, Winyeatt,'
he said. ' They have unearthed the hand of
a Venus, and all the world is swearing there
was never such another. Mrs. Winyeatt is
already persuaded of it by previous conviction.
Come!'

Paul shook his head. ' I must go back
and write a letter.'

Paul ! ' said his wife reproachfully.

Go without me, then. Our friends will
take good care of you,' he said in a cheery
tone, yet with a pang, because, although slight,
it was a separation, and because, on this day
of all days, it seemed hard. ' But how should

she know ! ' he repeated as he turned down
the deeply-shadowed street, and they passed
along the sunlit Forum. As soon as they
were out of sight, he took a carriage and drove
to the hotel. Once there, he had not many
stairs to mount before reaching his room, but
he went up slowly, and there must have been
something amiss with his face, to make Angelo,
the facchina, inquire whether the signore were,
perhaps, ailing ? Paul put the man off kindly
he was always, indeed, kindly-mannered 
and as soon as he arrived in his room, began
to write his letter. It took him time, and he
occasionally referred to the one which he
had that day received, yet it was not long.
Having finished at last, and addressed it to his
wife's father, a clergyman in England, he went
again downstairs, and instead of giving it to
the porter, as usual, took it himself to the
post.

II.

The days that followed this day were, to all
appearance, as beautiful as it had been. The
exquisite feeling of spring in the air became,
perhaps, intensified. Rome was full of violets,
and it was delicious to wander along the
paths, set with pale statues, in the gardens
of some villa where the dark ilexes stood
gravely against a sky of unfathomable blue.
Yet, ever since that day in the Capitol, Paul
was conscious of a change ; his wife and he
had moved a little apart. It was so difficult
to say how this was, or how it had come
about, that he sometimes accused himself
of yielding to impressions rather than facts.
Not a word had fallen from her lips which
was marred by a want of tenderness or
love ; everything about her breathed the same
delicate happiness, the same enthusiasm and

elasticity, which he had felt to be charming
even when he failed to share them ; he was
quite sure that she was not aware of a difference,
and perhaps this very unconsciousness
brought his sharpest pain. But more than
once, since that day, Norma had been absent
for hours with the Hamiltons and Mr. Lawrence.
Paul had been asked, even pressed, to
join them ; but when he made a laughing
excuse against such active sight-seeing, he
perceived that his wife would have been disappointed
had he not immediately urged her
going without him. She yielded, sometimes
showing a little vexation at his obstinacy,
sometimes making a laughing excuse for
herself.

1 Otherwise, how am I to see anything ?
And Paul frightened me one day by threatening
to leave Rome. Then what would become
of me F '

When she returned to him she was always

doubly affectionate, wanting to know how he
had amused himself, and whether he had
missed her ; but she rarely said much of what
she had herself seen, treating it, apparently,
as a subject which had no interest for him.
In this manner, and because it seemed to her
that the sensations daily excited were charged
with the fullest intellectual delight, she grew
slightly to look down upon her husband.
Paul detected this  there was little in her
which he did not detect ; he often pondered
upon it, and always with sadness, but it
seemed to him that, keeping her happiness as
his first object, he could do no better for her
than he was doing now. ' And if she learns
to live without me,' he reflected patiently,
surely I should not regret what will make it
all the easier for  for us both.'

One day when she had opened her letters,
she looked up with a cry.

< Paul ! '

Yes ? ' he asked quickly.

I The most extraordinary thing imaginable
is going to happen  you will never, never
guess ! My father  my father, of all people
in the world !  is coming out, and is going to
bring Bessie. Actually, they were to start
yesterday ! I can't believe it. What can
have induced them to set off in such haste?
What can have induced him to come at
all ? '

At any rate, it is a great happiness for
you," he said smiling.

She went to him and laid her head
against his shoulder.

I I do not know,' she murmured. ' Weare
so happy together, you and I, in this
beautiful life, that I am afraid of the least
change.'

1 Do not be afraid, dear one,' he said,
with the smile still on his lips, which had
suddenly whitened. This beautiful life! She,

indeed, was basking so contentedly in the
sunshine, that she had not so much as
observed the shadow into which Paul had
entered.

4 Oh, I am not really afraid  of course ! '
she answered lightly, leaning her head backward
so that her eyes looked into his. ' It
was only a foolish momentary dread. Bessie
will delight in going about with me, and my
father, who hates sight-seeing as much as
you, lazy Paul, will stay at home with you,
and read the " Times." Mr. Lawrence declares
that is how you amuse yourself. Will you
really not come to the Vatican tomorrow?
One would suppose you were growing old,
and afraid of the stairs ! '

She laughed gaily at this ridiculous fancy
of hers, and moving about the room, began
idly to turn over some cards which lay on a
china plate.

Madame Festa? Oh, I had forgotten

Madame Festa, she is so dull ! But I must
certainly return her visit at once. Dr.
Denman ?  Paul, who is Dr. Denman ? Did
you know that he had called ? Why should
he have come ? '

1 knew something of him from a friend
in England,' said her husband, with the
slightest possible hesitation.

She glanced at him, held the card fora
moment in her hand, then passed to
another.

When Mr. Charlton and his young
daughter arrived, it was evident that he was
nervously and fussily anxious for a conversation
with Paul. Paul, on his part, took their
coming so easily, and showed himself so
much what he had always been, that his
father-in-law's ruddy face, which had lost a
good deal of colour, gradually regained its
usual florid vigour, and at the table d'hote he

vol. i. C

u

laid down the law almost as dogmatically as
ever. It was in the afternoon of the following
day that he saw Paul alone. The two
men drew chairs near the open window, and
sat down. Life was going on with happy
alacrity in the piazza hard by ; the fountain
splashed, the flower-sellers and the orange-boys
cried their little possessions, carriages
clattered over the stones, models basked on
the Trinity steps, the sun shone.

'Look here, Paul,' said the elder man,
laying his broad hand on the other's knee ;
1 I'm here, as you see. I lost no time, put
Marshall in charge, and brought Bessie, as
you suggested. Well. Now I look at you,
I tell you plainly, I believe you're frightening
yourself without reason. I dare say you're
out of sorts, that's common enough, and no
wonder, dining off kickshaws, and not a bit
of decent mutton to be had  but as for anything
so serious as you led me to suppose 

pooh ! I don't believe it, I don't believe it.
Why, to begin with, would Xorma be gohio-
off and leaving you like this, if you were
really ill ? '

Xorma knows nothing,' replied Paul, a
slight red flushing his cheek.

1 Bless my soul, sir, but she would know !
That's precisely what I say. When I've
got the gout, !Mrs. Charlton knows fast
enough.'

4 That is a different matter,' Paul said
gravely. ' At first I concealed the truth from
Xorma because I feared that  alone as she
was  she might be frightened at the chance
of something  sudden  happening to me. I
should have seen terror in her face whenever
she looked at me,' he added in a voice
full of pain. ' I had thought,' he continued,
recovering himself, ' that on your coming
the truth might have been broken to her 
gently.'

c 2

Truth ! Nonsense  don't believe it's
truth at all,' muttered his father-in-law
uneasily.

Paul smiled. He knew this to be only
an ungracious fashion of expressing sincerest
concern.

G confirms Dr. Denman's opinion.

I wrote to G because I wished to have

the best advice ; he knows me, and I sent a
letter from Dr. Denman. Of course he can
only speak provisionally, but he says the
greatest care is necessary. You know what
that means.'

But you were well when you married ? '

So I believed. Denman maintains that
it has long been coming on.'

Mr. Charlton got up and walked heavily
about the room. ' Good God ! ' he muttered,
looking askance at Paul. Then he sat down
again. 'You wish me to speak to my poor
girl?'

No,' said Paul quietly. ' I have given
up that idea, and it is my most earnest desire
that she should be left in ignorance. She is
very happy here, and I have a fancy to bethought
of by-and-by as part of that happiness.
If this is selfish, I believe you will forgive
me. Our stay here will not be very long.
If I go home with her and you, the knowledge
when it reaches her will be less hard for her
to bear than if it came in the very heart of
her delight ; and if not  perhaps something
in the place will comfort her.'

And you  you have no wish to beat
home ? ' said the other, looking at
him.

I wish it to be as I have said,' Paul
answered, returning the look steadily.

They wandered about Eome, these five 
for Mr. Lawrence was generally with them,
and learnt many secrets which the old city

only discloses to those who seek for them.
When the others went to galleries and
museums, Paul excused himself ; but he was
always ready to drive in the Campagna, or to
stroll about the paths of some villa garden,
breathing the violet-scented air. Yet the
beauty never really pleased him. It seemed
so crowded with association, that the past
became too heavy a thing to bear. All kinds
of discords trembled in his ears ; his longing
for something more artless, more simple,
more natural and less enchanting, grew
intense. The very amethyst of the mountains
looked to him unreal; he craved for a soberer
colouring, such as had bounded his life in
past years. Norma never knew half of what
he felt, but she pitied him sincerely for the
want of comprehension of the loveliness in
which she revelled, and always hoped that
he might in time be lifted into her own more
exquisite regions.

Mr. Lawrence made a pleasant element in
their life ; no one, indeed, could have suited
them better. He was on friendly terms with
the Charlton, and answered Xorrna's questions,
which were many, with a delightful
readiness, which allowed her to endure slight
touches of raillery with the most admirable
patience. It was noticeable, however, that
when he had passed any time with Paul, a
certain uneasiness crept into his square-cut
face ; he often looked doubtfully at Xorma, as
if words trembled on his tongue ; and one day,
meeting Mr. Charlton in the Corso, he said
with some roughness 

Are you satisfied with Winyeatt's looks ?
What's the matter with him ? '

The answer came in two words which
made Lawrence's face change. He turned
and walked silently by the side of the other
man for half the length of the Condotti.
Then he said 

8 And Mrs. Winyeatt doesn't know ? '

By his particular request. Misjudged, I
dare say, but one couldn't refuse a wish expressed
so strongly.'

Of course not,' Lawrence agreed
slowly ; ' that is, unless she suspects something.'


6 Can't think what's come to Norma,' her
father broke out vehemently. ' Here's even
little Bessie asking if I don't think Paul
changed. She put me in a corner, I can tell
you, only yesterday. And the other so taken
up by her fallydiddles, she won't see. It's
monstrous ! Shall I give her a hint, in spite
of Paul?'

Mr. Lawrence did not apparently notice
the question. He must have been thinking
of it, however, for at the door of the hotel he
remarked 

He has the right to have his wishes
respected. Do not say anything.'

One day towards the end of March they
all went out to Frascati. Paul was ready,
almost eager, to go. It was as if he hoped,
in leaving behind him the wonderful old city,
to escape from its atmosphere, thick with
centuries of human life and struggle, into
something purer and clearer, where he could
breathe with less uneasiness. Of this housing
he said nothing to Norma, who found it
difficult to tear herself even for one day from
Eome. She was as affectionate and charming
to her husband as ever, but the eagerness of
her interests absorbed her so completely, that
she scarcely felt the loss of the sensitive
sympathy which had once thrilled their
hearts. It is true that every now and then
she mourned it ; when this happened her
reflections left no room for doubt that it was
due to a certain want in Paul, for which he
was no more to be blamed than a scentless
flower for lack of perfume. He gave her all

he could, though he failed to discern the
higher beauty.

From the inn in the little piazza of
Frascati, a narrow and steep path leads for
some distance between the walls of the great
villa lands to Tusculum. Much to Norma's
amusement, Mr. Lawrence, who was the
arranger of all their expeditions, had provided
a small troop of donkeys, on which he
insisted that the whole party should mount.
By this means Paul was able to go with them
without fatigue ; and even when they reached
the amphitheatre, Mr. Lawrence took care
that some one should always be riding, so that
he might walk as much or as little as he liked
without observation.

Once, indeed, a shadow of alarm seemed
to have touched the young wife. The ancient
gate of the city lies enshrouded and half concealed
by shrubs, a spring of clear water issues
from the rock hard by, and in front spreads

a soft carpet of grass. A delicious perfume
greeted them before they reached the spot,
and on riding up the reason was explained.
A number of the men who sell flowers in
Piome had come here in search of the famous
Tusculum violets, darker and sweeter than
all others. Baskets upon baskets of the sweet
flowers lay upon the grass, sprinkled by
water from the spring, while the men had
stretched themselves around for a mid-day
rest. The extraordinary fragrance of the
violets was so powerful, that Paul, at all
times quickly affected by scents, changed
colour, and Xorma, turning to point out an
especially picturesque group, was struck by
his pallor.

 Are you ill, Paul F ' she asked anxiously.

Tired,' he said smiling. ' Tired of the
heat and the violets.'

How strangely different we are ! ' exclaimed
Xorma, looking at him thoughtfully.

To Hie the heat and the scent seem to bring
new life.'

George Lawrence, who closely watched
this husband and wife, noticed that after this
she often glanced at Paul, and that her manner
was graver than it had been during the past
weeks. ' Once induce her to forget herself
and to find out a little what he is, and she
will soon be quickened into a sense of the
position,' he reflected. 'But I begin to believe
that he is right, and that unless it comes that
way, it will do him no good. Meanwhile  is
there time ? '

When the descent began they walked more
than they rode, along the narrow flower-bordered
roads. The day was calm and the
sky softly blue, here and there whitened by
some filmy cloud, while a faint haze added its
mysterious beauty to the delicate colouring
of the mountains. Often, as they passed along
the flank of the hill, some opening disclosed

the lovely sweep of the Campagna, with Eome
and her great church lying in purple shadows.
At these Paul did not much look ; the little
flowers springing in the banks, the song of
larks overhead, attracted him more. There
was a rivalry between the sisters as to who
should find the greatest variety of flowers,
and Xorma and Bessie hastened on in front,
while Mr. Charlton rode slowly behind them,
and Paul and his friend lingered in the rear.
George Lawrence, who wanted to set Paul to
talk, made a suggestion of the possibility of
leaving Eome for a week, and comma to this
higher level.

4 It would be a relief from the eternal
paving-stones,' he said.

For an instant Paul's eye brightened,
then the light faded, and he shook his
head.

1 Xorma loves the paving-stones,' he
returned. ; Besides, though you will not

understand my whim, I am not sure that this
is the beauty which refreshes. Through it
all there is something which I find languorous
and exhausting. It must be because I ama
barbarian from the North that my nature
cries out for less loveliness, less culture, and
more vigour.'

Your own country would suit you
better.'

If you knew how I dream of it ! ' Paul
broke out almost passionately, and drawing a
deep breath. ' A rush of wet wind over a
moor, for instance ! '

Go back, man ! ' said the other bluntly.
Go back ! You are ill, and have a right to
your fancies.'

Paul looked at him. ' Who told you that
I was ill, George ? '

My own senses. Do you think I'm blind ?
Then I asked old Charlton, and he told me.'
He dropped his voice as he spoke, and the

other stretched out his hand without any
change of manner.

6 Thank you. On the whole, I believe ita
relief. One feels the loneliness sometimes 
not often. And I know the position is safe
with you.'

1 Oh, I'll follow your lead,' said Lawrence,
with a good deal more feeling in his tone
than in his words. ' You prefer to keep the
knowledge to yourself ? '

'Yes,' replied Paul meditatively. 'If 
any one finds it out, as you did, well and good.
Otherwise, I prefer that the memory of this
time should remain unclouded.' Possibly
reading some blame in the other man's eves,
he added more quickly  ' My dear wife is
quite unlearned in the signs of sickness, and
perhaps I understand her better than any of
you.'

He said this in a tone which forbade
argument ; indeed Lawrence had little to urge,

for he felt himself that the knowledge should
have already come to Norma through her own
heart.

Walking silently on, they saw presently
that the sisters had paused and were waiting
for them. Mr. Charlton jogged sleepily on,
looking neither to the right nor to the left,
but the two girls were engaged in a laughing
dispute.

c Mr. Lawrence  Paul ! ' cried Norma,
Bessie must not be allowed to carry home
this branch of blackthorn. Forbid it, somebody
! '

What does it portend ? ' asked Paul.

'Death,' said his wife. ' Don't you know

She looked at the two men, and her

voice, which had suddenly faltered, rose again
with a note in it which to Lawrence sounded
like defiance. ' Ah, you are laughing at me '
though indeed they were both grave  * you
think I am superstitious. Well, I am not,

and to prove it ' She sprang lightly on

the bank, and gathering a second and larger
branch of the snow-white flowers, leapt down
with it in her hand, and stood before them
smiling and a picture of triumphant grace.

Paul soon mounted again, and rode all the
way back to Frascati. Nomina, who looked
for no more flowers, fell behind and walked
with Mr. Lawrence.

What have you and Paul been chatting
about ? ' she demanded. ' Have you been
pouring out your latest views upon the history
of Tusculum ? '

1 Xot I ! ' he said lightly. ; Depend upon
it, I know better than to attempt the rule
of instructor with him. It is all the other
way.'

She coloured and looked displeased.

c I don't understand you. I will not have
you laugh at my husband.'

Heaven forbid ! ' he exclaimed, with

vol. i. D

great earnestness. 'I laugh at him? You
must be dreaming ! '

Then what can you have learnt ? ' she
asked with evident unbelief, looking down at
the blackthorn which she carried.

He did not immediately answer her question.
' You, his wife,' he said slowly at last,
must know much better than I. I think he
showed me, for one thing, where to find the
highest beauty.'

1 Paul ! My husband ! But that is what
he fails to see himself ! ' she cried in amazement.
- He is very good in listening to my
enjoyment of it, but  he takes no real interest.
Surely you must be mistaken. The highest
beauty ! '

Xo, I am not mistaken,' he said quietly.
Where do you put it ? '

In art  in art as it interprets Nature
truly,' she answered at once. ' And so do
you  you have often told me so.'

If I told you so I was a fool, as I have
often suspected,' lie said impatiently, ' Go
and ask your husband to teach you something
wiser. Then you will know.'

She gave him a startled look, which he
remembered afterwards, and her beautiful
eyes filled with tears. He knew that he had
been rough, but for this he cared little, if by
any means he could awaken her. He thought
Paul weak in his excuse for her, and it sometimes
appeared to him, so sharply did he now
accuse her, that she was wilfully shutting her
eyes, because she feared to be taken away
from her delights. In his own judgment he
spared her very little  perhaps was the harder
judge because he could not but feel something
of the fascination of her great beauty.

They went home in the early evening ; the
aqueducts, stretching across the Campagna
gleamed like tawny gold, rosy Judas-trees
added their warm tints to the glow, and here

D 2

and there a sullen Cyprus by its sombre contrast
intensified the delicate colouring. Norma
was very quiet and kept close to her husband.
Lawrence did not know whether she were
angry with him or not, for she had said
nothing more. But when they were again in
Borne, and he prepared to leave them, Paul
stopped him with the proposal that he should
dine with them in their own rooms. Through
the dinner Paul chatted cheerfully, almost
gaily ; it seemed as if the air of Frascati had
revived him, while it depressed Norma ; afterwards
he slipped out of the room, and Lawrence
suspected he had gone to rest for a
while. Presently Norma and Bessie went
away together. He never knew very clearly
what followed  there was a cry, a call, and
many people came running ; all the truth
seemed to flash upon him in a moment, even
before he saw Paul's face.

He did not meet Xorma again until the
morning that her father and sister took her
away from Borne, a month later. She had
been very ill, and it had been impossible to
move her before. It must be owned that
George Lawrence exceedingly dreaded this
interview  for pity for the dead, if it does
not pass away, soon ceases to become an
active principle ; we feel as if now they
know all, and need no poor compassion of
ours, it is the living who stretch out imploring
hands  and he was very sorry
for Xorma, and remembered with compunction
that he had tried to hurt her. He
wondered how deep the pain had struck,
and whether the sight of him would not be
unbearable, since his words, emphasized so
tragically as they had been, could hardly
have failed to reach their full significance.
After all the wretchedness of his expectation,
she came in so quietly that he heard nothing

until lie looked up and saw her standing
before him, greatly changed.

6 Ah, Mr. Lawrence,' she said, stretching
out her hand, ' you should not have let us
pick the blackthorn ! ' The words were so
unexpected that they unbounded him, he
did not know what to answer ; and she went
on slowly, ; I was not well treated ; I should
have been told ; then we might have gone
home.'

It seemed to him that he, her father, her
husband were all arraigned, for her voice had
a hard ring in it, and her face showed no signs
of emotion. Mr. Charlton spoke in a deprecating
manner, as if he, too, felt the same ; he
talked of their journey, of the weather, while
Norma stood by, a beautiful statue. But when
the parting was over, at the door she broke
from her father, and came hurriedly back.

You were right ! ' she cried passionately.
1 It has all been a mistake, and now I know,

now I know ! But another time do not be so
cruel ! '

Lawrence remained in the middle of the
room looking after her, and speechless. Had
he indeed been cruel ? Had she not tried to
blind herself? Did she know now, and  at
what cost ?

s>

There's the face coming on here of one
Who knows me.  Tennyson.

jjTDKE tli an nine years had passed
between that tragic episode and the
time when we meet some of the same
people again : nine years, so broad a stretch
to look forward upon, so narrow a strip when
once it lies behind, so full of seeming change,
yet more often in truth bringing only the
development of the flower from the bud, the
fruit from the flower !

Changes there had been, of course. Norma.
Winyeatt, for instance, would have said, that
ever since that great shock of her life, things

had seemed to totter around her, and that all
was touched with the general impression of
instability. But Lucy Winyeatt, her sister-in-law,
who, after the death of her mother, had
lived with Paul's wife, was always crying out
for something winch should break the monotony.
To please her, and as a compromise
between the country, to which Norma clung,
and London, which Lucy loved, but which
was not desirable for Agnes  Xorma's child,
they had moved to Dover, where Lucy might
taste something of the joys of society.

The house  one of a large row  faced the
sea, a strip of garden dividing it from the
broad road, sea-wall, and shingle beyond.
On this hot midsummer day it was closed by
means of shutters, blinds, and striped awnings
against the twinkling sunshine outside, and
was so still, that it was almost startling when
a voice, young and impatient, called through
its silence, ' Norma, Norma ! '

The call proved unproductive, and the
caller ran upstairs and into the drawing-room,
where a child of about nine years old was
curled in an arm-chair, reading.

6 Where's your mother, Agnes ? '

fc Don't know,' said the child, without
looking up.

You never do know ! ' returned the
questioner sharply.

No answer either by word or look. It
was easy to see that the two were antagonistic.
Lucy Winyeatt moved hastily about the
room, putting an adorning touch here and
there, rather, apparently, as an expression of
impatience than from an impulse of taste.
Perhaps,' she said suddenly at last, ' perhaps
she has gone out ? '

'Yes, she has.'

6 Why didn't you say so ? '

'You didn't ask me,' returned Agnes
calmly.

'I asked you where she was.'

1 And I don't know. If I haven't learned
this French verb, Aunt Lucy, it will be your
fault.'

She shifted her position, and stopped both
ears, as a broad hint that the conversation
had finished. Lucy flung an angry look
at her, perhaps would have said something
sufficiently stinging to reach even stopped
ears, but that at this moment she caught the
sound of a step on the stairs, and Xorma
came in. She said at once in an injured
tone 

Where on earth have you been, Xorma ?
Oh, you needn't tell me ; I am sure the
streets in this weather must be odious ! How
hot you look ! '

1 How hot I feel ! Still I think there is
more shade in the streets than elsewhere.'

1 Oh no, there isn't,' asserted Lucy. ' At
least, if there is, it's hot shade, which is worse

than anything. On the pier there's a delicious
breeze.'

'This is the nicest of all,' said Norma,
dropping into a chair with a smile.

She was as beautiful as ever ; the nine years
and the sadness of her loss not having dimmed
the beauty as they might have a little later on.
Just now they seemed to have done no more
than add a touch of completeness ; the eyes
were as clear but softer, and the grace of her
movements was not the less noticeable because
it had gained something of stateliness. She
had worn mourning for many years, now had
nominally left it off, but was more often seen
in black than in colours. She was a strong
and noble woman, whose will was crossed by
passionate impulses, and who, in spite of the
nine years, still carried at her heart a weight
of remorse. When old Mrs. Winyeatt died,
the pressure of this weight impelling her, as
always, towards whatever seemed like atonement,

forced her to offer a home to Lucy ;
not that she found her sympathetic, but that
she was Paul's sister, and that  she could not
do enough for Paul. She had never allowed
herself to regret this step, though it is true
that she drew a long breath of relief when
Lucy went off to stay with friends, but she
laid this down to the fact that Agnes and
her aunt did not get on, and Agnes had no
scruple in announcing her delight. Life,
perhaps owing to this constant warfare, of
which she made the central figure, was not
restful, although now uneventful. Looking
back, it seemed to her that it had been a fair,
bright, short  how short !  summer's day,
ending in the crash of storm. The shadow of
the storm had brooded ever since.

It used to vex Lucy sometimes that this
was so, not because Norma ever could be
said to flaunt her trouble before any one, but
because Lucy's was a curiously self-absorbing

nature. She liked to claim every tiling which
could create interest, and to hear her speak
you would imagine that Paul's loss was much
more to her than to his wife. This did not
prevent her from feeling annoyed if the expression
in Norma's face told where her
thoughts had strayed, since it was every one's
duty, she considered  at least, it was the duty
of her companions  to take the complexion
of their thoughts from her own. Her will
was as strong as Norma's own, but it was not
nearly so abrupt in its working ; she preferred
to advance it, so to speak, behind cover ;
masked batteries were her delight, and she
was never wanting in an infinite number of
excellent reasons, which trooped gaily up,
while the actual motive remained out of sight.

Dear Norma,' she said, drawing a stool to
her sister-in-law's side, ' you really ought not
to overheat yourself in such a manner ! '

1 It is nothing,' answered Norma shortly.

She knew what was coming, and then her
heart smote her for knowing. ; Do you want
to go out on the pier ? ' she asked gently.

4 Oh, I don't care,' returned Lucy ;  but it
is your only chance of getting cool. If you
stay in this stuffy house you are sure to have
a headache.'

'Is the house stuffy? Well'  she stood
up rather wearily and looked round  * let us
go, then ; the boat will be in in a quarter of
an hour.'

Oh, the boat ! ' Lucy repeated carelessly,
with the air of one upon whom the recollection
had come for the first time. ' Imagine it being
so late ! The afternoon has really galloped
away. Wait for me one moment, Xorma.'

She was alert and practical ; she ran out of
the room and upstairs, in search of another
pair of gloves. Agnes slipped down from
her chair and flung her arms round her
mother.

6 Why do you let Aunt Lucy drag you out
again ? ' she said. c You are tired, you ought
to rest ; it is only that she may march about
and see all those stupid peo '

Hush, hush,' said Norma gravely, laying
her hand on the child's mouth. ' You must
not talk like that, and you do not understand.
I am glad when I can do anything for your
Aunt Lucy. Always remember, dear, that
she is your father's sister.'

Oh, I know, but I don't like her ! ' said
Agnes mutinously, pushing away her mother's
hand.

6 Here I am ! ' said Lucy, appearing, buttoning
her new gloves. ' Are you coming too,
Agnes ? Is the French verb learnt ? It is too
hot for French verbs, isn't it ? ' she added
good-naturedly.

It's too hot to march about on the pier,'
returned Agnes crossly.

The girl only laughed. ' Sour grapes, my

dear,' she nodded, as she shut the door, and
went singing down the stairs.

Outside, hot as it was, there was a charming
sparkle and radiance ; the blue of the sea, full
and fresh, softened delicately on the horizon
into the more tender blue of the sky ; there
was the flash of sunlight on the waters, on
the sails of the fishing-boats, on the wings of
the birds, on the white cliffs, which in the
distance looked cool and peaceful. The boats
drawn up on the beach, heaped with sails,
nets, rusty ropes, flung black patches of
shadow on the shingle, the waves rushed
up against the stones and broke in white
foam. Outside, great ships on their way to
other countries, to other worlds, were slowly
moving down channel. There was something
solemn and stately in their movement; dreams
perhaps fly out to them, and hearts bid them
carry unuttered messages.

As you would like to see the steamer
vol. i. E

come in, we must go by the ferry,' said Lucy,
quickening her pace. Norma did not contradict
her, perhaps she scarcely heard. They
walked silently along ; the old ferryman was
waiting ; he pulled them across the mouth of
the harbour ; they went up the steps and
along the stones, where the sun beat down
with blinding glare. 'We will keep on the
lower level,' Lucy said hastily ; * you would
find it too glaring above.'

Norma did not much like this part of the
pier, where you were in the midst of the
throng of people who poured out from the
boat and into the train, and where indeed only
those who had come to meet friends had any
business ; but she allowed Lucy to sweep her
in the direction she liked, and owned that it
was pleasant to be under a covering, and to
hear the green water lapping against the wall.

Presently the trains crawled in, waiting
for their freights, officials sauntered down,

the usual crowd collected above, and now the
boat, with its awnings, and all passengers on
deck, glided alongside ; there was the usual
crowding and bustle and want of hands, and
then the people began to push up the gangway,
and Norma kept as far back as Lucy
allowed, and felt shy and uncomfortable.

Shrink as she might, however, she was too
noticeable a figure to pass unseen even in a
crowd where all were bent on pressing out
of it. People glanced at her as they passed,
and at last some one, after a moment's hesitation,
walked quickly towards her and held
out his hand.

'Mrs. Winyeatt?' he said decidedly,
though the words were in the form of a
question.

It seemed for a moment as if Xorma could
not answer him. She turned white, and when
at last she put out her hand it was trembling.

1 Hr. Lawrence ! '

AJflf

MWVEKSm 01 Summit

only takes a moment, a word, to bring
back years. What past sorrows, what rush
of bitter remorse came flying in upon her with
the sight of this man  a man with a plain
ordinary face, a man dressed in the loosest
and lightest of clothing ! Everything round
her seemed to be swept away by his, not
unusual, personality ; she was back in the
amphitheatre of Tusculum, the smell of the
violets reached her, she was carrying a
branch of blackthorn, there was Paul's face 
changed, silent. She looked at him fearfully
where were they ?

Lucy, who had of course seen the little
episode, was immensely interested, not understanding
in the least what could so strangely
have moved Norma. The steamer always
brought with it hopes, possibilities, but it
was rarely indeed that anything effective
came of them, anything to excite either
curiosity or interest, while here were both

alive in a moment. There was a scarcely
perceptible pause before lie spoke again.

1 Imagine stumbling upon you in this odd
way ! You did not come by the boat ? But,
no, I need not ask,' he added with a laugh
which was not quite easy, ' as I see you are
free from bundles or parcels.'

6 No, we did not come by the boat,'
Norma repeated mechanically ; ' we live here.'
For the first time she lifted her pathetic eyes,
and looked at George Lawrence. How
strange it was that he should be standing
there, a piece of the past, and apparently unchanged,
when the past itself had crumbled
into ashes! It was like a resurrection. Naturally
he recovered himself sooner.

It is a place I rather fancy,' he said, c and
I thought of staying a few days. Now that I
have found an old friend, I am glad to have
had the idea. How many years is it since we
met, Mrs. Winyeatt ? '

'Nine.' She spoke the words faintly.

6 Nine ! Impossible ! And yet I suppose
you are right.'

Yes,' she said, ' I am right.'

She was conscious all the while of a dull
wonderment that she should be able to talk
calmly, to hold the thread of thought so far
as to answer his remarks. The meeting had
moved her so much that she felt as if she
could not be her ordinary self, and she
was in danger of losing her grasp upon the
present. It was perhaps fortunate that at
this point Lucy interposed.

4 Had we not better take ourselves out of
this crowd ? ' she inquired, with the calm of
admirable sense, and George Lawrence started
and laughed.

It certainly would be a good move. I
ought to apologise for having been the cause
of keeping you in it.' He looked at Lucy,
lifting his hat as he spoke, and she was quite

willing to engage in a little ripple of conversation,
as they-walked away.

Perhaps I had better introduce myself, as
Xornia has not yet awakened from the astonishment
of finding any one she knows coming
off the steamer. It really is a curious fact that
it so seldom happens ! I am Nbrma's sister-in-law.
I suppose you knew her abroad ? '

1 Yes,' said Lawrence gravely.

She glanced quickly at him ; he was
looking at Norma.

1 I almost wonder you remembered each
other,' Lucy said lightly, ' after so many
years ! '

He answered as if it had been Xorma who
had spoken.

4 1 think I should have known you anywhere.'


I should not have expected it,' she said,
speaking in her usual voice, ' for I must be
very much altered.'

6 Are you altered ? '

I hope so,' she said with a sudden impetuosity,
in which she looked more like the
Norma of old than since their meeting. He
laughed.

'Well, I won't disappoint you. You are
altered. Yet, as you see, I knew you without
difficulty. If you will allow me, I will give
some directions to the man belonging to the
hotel, and will overtake you.'

6 Norma,' said Lucy, the instant they were
alone, ' who is he ? Where did you know
him ? '

He is a Mr. Lawrence.' Norma made her
explanations with difficulty. 'Paul and I
knew him in Eome. He was with us at  at
that terrible time.'

Poor Norma ! ' returned Lucy sympathetically
; ' of course it is dreadful to be
reminded of it. I am not quite sure that I
can bear to look at him. Still, I will do all I

can. Of course you must ask him to dinner,
and I will take him off your hands as much as
I can.'

'Do you think that  or anything else,
matters ! ' said Norma sadly ; and then her
heart smote her, and she added very gently,
Thank you, Lucy ; I know you will do all
you can to help me.'

George Lawrence, marching behind them,
thought what a noble figure Norma looked
as she walked on with her sister. It was
true that she was changed from the girl of
twenty-four, but she was a person with a
very distinct individuality, and had always remained
an impression on his memory. The
years that had passed had softened his judgment
of her ; he had blamed her a good deal
at the time, but now recollected little beyond
a feeling that she had been so much taken up
by the attractions of Eome, as to shut her
eyes to her husband's illness. Xow, better

than then, he could make so many excuses
on account of her youth, that the offence no
longer seemed so heinous, and he reflected
that he had judged her with undue harshness.
The shock to herself had been terrible, and
he had never shaken off the feeling that he
and her father had been to blame, which had
swept over him when first he saw her after
Paul's death. The sight of her now somehow
strengthened this feeling. He was sure that
they had been unjust towards her, that they
had throughout been influenced by a knowledge
which had been carefully held back from
her, yet which she was blamed for not acting
upon. He had been much attracted by Paul,
for whom he felt a cordial pity ; but our feelings
towards the dead, if they do not change,
fade, and lose their sharpness of outline, the
insistency of their colouring. He had no
conception of the storm which shook Norma's
soul when she saw him ; he would, probably,

have smiled at the remorse she felt, and
would certainly have considered it disproportionate.


Norma was a person who would always
have taken life seriously ; she was apt to
throw her whole self into whatever occupied
her, to attack even trifles with an earnestness
for which she was often vexed with herself.
She used to envy Lucy her easy lightness of
touch, her power of taking up something,
and laying it down without a pang. Norma
could not find it in her heart to leave it half
done, though it might not be worth the
labour she bestowed upon it. And therefore,
it may be guessed that such a shock, such
an awakening, such a burden on her conscience,
had very powerfully affected her life.
Her conviction was that she had been so
swept away, so influenced by the pursuit of
certain things very pleasant to her nature,
that duty, love, even, she was ready to declare,

common humanity had been sacrificed ;
it was not only grief for her husband which
seized her, but dismay  horror, that such
conduct should have been possible. With a
nature such as hers, such a conviction could
not come and go, it had struck its roots too
deeply ; it formed a sort of tribunal to which
she brought her acts for judgment, and to
satisfy which she shrank from many an
innocent relaxation. The sight of George
Lawrence had stirred all these pangs, these
self-reproaches, into keener action, and she
not only judged herself afresh, but felt herself
to be condemned by him.

'Tell me quickly,' said Lucy, 'before he
comes up. Who is he ? What is he ? What
can one talk about ? '

Norma looked up quickly.

4 1 think with him it is pleasant to listen,
he knows so much.'

Lucy made a face.

Oh, thank you, my dear ; but that strikes
me as dull, for him as well as for myself.
You may sit and be reverential, if you like :
but I shall show my appreciation, if I am
appreciative, in a very different fashion. I
suppose he has been about in the world a
good deal, and probably for the next fortnight
he will bestow a few crumbs of praise
upon his native land. This, not overdone,
will do to start with.'

If Xorma meditated an answer, she was
prevented from making it by the subject of
their conversation overtaking them.

That mighty affair being disposed of,' he
said, ' if you will allow me I will walk with
you to the door of your house, and then I
shall know how to find my way to it when I
come in state to call.'

There was a short pause, of which Lucy
was impatiently conscious, before Xorma
said 

I hope you will postpone the state, and
dine with us quietly to-night.'

May I ? ' he said eagerly. ' I am half
ashamed to trespass so soon upon your kindness,
and yet I haven't the resolution to
say no.'

Don't say no,' said Norma hurriedly.

But after this she was very silent, it was
Lucy who flung herself into the breach, and
talked with immense animation. Perhaps the
meeting had exhilarated him, or perhaps
Lawrence had resolved to see everything from
the best point of view, for he, in his turn,
was unusually gay. The heat had lessened,
a fresh breeze had sprung up, there was a
delightful freshness about the mass of sparkling
water, the boats, even the houses, with
their striped awnings, and gardens brilliant
with roses. Lawrence carried out Lucy's
prognostication.

You have no idea how charming this is,'

lie said, ' after the baking heat and the dust
abroad. Even you. Mrs. Winyeatt, must
acknowledge it.'

Lucy looked at him in astonishment.
 Even you. Xorrna r ' she repeated.

She hesitated again  slightly, then   Yes,
I quite acknowledge it,' she said-here is
our house, Mr. Lawrence, will you come in ? '

1 Xo, thank you. Happily for you. I have
a few scruples still clinging about me, and
one consists in not inflicting myself where I
am doing to dine.'

He held the gate open for them as they
passed in. and then lifted his hat and walked
back to his quarters in an unusually satisfied
state of mind.

CHAPTER II.

I have a room whereinto no one enters,

Save I myself alone :
There sits a blessed memory on a throne,

There my life centres.  Christina Rossetti.

George LAWRENCE himself might
have found some difficulty in answering
Lucy's questions if they
had been put directly to him. What was he ?
What did he do ? There are men who take a
profession merely as a name, an excuse, a peg
to hang idleness upon ; but Lawrence had not
even gone so far. He had passed his University
course with distinction, and had had vague
ideas afterwards of finding an occupation 

of becoming a secretary, for instance. Some
instinct of repugnance, which seemed temporary,
but remained permanent, had always
withheld him from taking practical steps in
this direction, but it continued to be a vision
of the future, meanwhile an aunt had left
him money : he still held a possible occupation
dangling before himself, and as a salve to
his conscience employed himself at intervals
upon literature. He had written occasional
articles of which no one suspected the authorship,
he having kept his own counsels more
closely than such counsels are often kept, and
he had ideas of a future and longer work.
Xot infrequently the conviction of uselessness
depressed him ; at thirty-eight the persuasion
that life lies before one has received a shock,
the horizon contracts, and choice no longer
seems so free. As he went towards A Irs.
\Yinyeatt's house that fair summer evening,
he felt more than usually worthless. Nine
vol. i. F

years were many to have brought a man only
what? An added experience, a more refined,
taste. ' If I had been making money all
this while, I suppose the world would have
been satisfied,' he retorted upon himself ; but
it was not a new thought, and it did not produce
much effect. The sight of Paul's wife
had awakened old memories of Paul ; it struck
him more than ever that he had been heroic
in his single-minded unselfishness. If Paul
had lived he would have passed a practical
useful ]ife, doing more good in his generation
in a month than he, George Lawrence, in a
year  in a dozen years.

4 What a fool I am ! ' was his unsatisfactory
conclusion, as he stood at the door of
Mrs. Winyeatt's house.

As he went upstairs he found himself
expecting to be ushered into an unusually
charming room. Her taste had been not
only admirable but enthusiastic ; he could

imagine how she would revel in its free display,
how all she touched would take its
impress. To a certain extent it had been
uncultivated when first she appeared in Eome,
but she had shown marvellous quickness in
assimilation, and he had never known anyone
seize so rapidly upon what may be called
the appreciation of beauty. She had very
strong artistic instincts.

The moment the door opened, he felt a
chill of disappointment.

The room was not ugly. It had sunshine
and flowers, and was like a hundred others.
It was the distinctive character, the originality
which he had expected, that was wanting
 wanting so completely that he was at
once disposed to blame Xorma for having
fallen so short of his ideal. She was not
there, however ; it was Lucy Winyeatt, in a
white dress, who greeted him with cordiality.

4 Xorma will be down directly. Xorma ?

with a little laugh  ' is apt to have hazy-notions
about time. I dare say you remember
that of old ? I was only a child, but I recollect
so well, that very last time they started,
dear Paul fearing that they might miss the
train. We never saw him again.'

Lawrence murmured something sympathetic.


'You may conceive what a shock it was
to us  he was my only brother ! '

1 He was an excellent fellow,' said Lawrence
warmly. ' I think all Eome was stirred to its
depths with pity for Mrs. Winyeatt. The
whole thing was so sudden, and so  so
terrible.'

Ah, yes,' replied Lucy ; ' but I have always
envied Norma. She at least was there, and
she must have had some preparation ; it is
impossible but that he must have looked ill,
or  oh, there is sure to have been a change ! '

She was very young.'

1 My age exactly,' said the girl with a
smile.

8 Eeally ! Well, I hope I am not going to
make an unpardonable remark, when I say
that you give me the idea of being an older
person than Mrs. Winyeatt was at that time.'

Lucy glanced quickly at him with a
curious expression in her eyes. But she at
once accepted the position.

8 I think you must be right,' she said reflectively
; ' Xorma had seen very little of the
world when Paul married her. I dare say you
soon found out how little P '

8 Very soon,' he said smiling. ' I think it
was that very ignorance which made her so
attractive  that and, of course, her great
beauty.'

4 Ah ! she was very beautiful, was she
not ? ' inquired Lucy innocently.

8 Was  is. She has not lost any of the
charm, has she? She struck me to-day, as

she struck me those years ago, as one of the
most beautiful women I ever saw.'

Yet you thought her changed,' said Lucy
with a touch of sharpness, which, however,
he did not notice. He was thinking of Norma.

But change does not always mean loss.
There is something in her which, it is true,
was not there before  a touch of stateliness,
perhaps. And  and the sorrow she has
suffered, that, no doubt, has deepened the
expression. Yes  she is changed.'

She was looking very well to-day,' remarked
Lucy. 'Ah, here she is. Norma,
dear, we were talking about you.'

6 About me ? ' She repeated the words
in a startled voice, and stood still for a
moment, with Agnes clinging to her, just
within the door. Lawrence was pained by
the look, which seemed to imply probable
blame.

6 No treason, believe me,' he said quickly.

Is that your little girl ? How amazing it
seems ! She is wonderfully like her father.'

He had already become aware by some
subtle touch of sympathy that she was
burdened by what he felt to be a morbid
remorse for the past, and he thought it best
to allude to it so freely and openly, even at
the cost of a little pain, that she should at any
rate be convinced that nothing in his mind
answered to her view of her own shortcomings.
It was very evident that she shrank
from the touch, but she said in a low voice 

1 Yes, we think so, we hope so. I am very
glad you see the resemblance.'

I think she is more like Xorma  Norma
half fledged,' said Lucy.

Lawrence found an unusual charm and
pleasantness about that evening. There was
a broad balcony, with flowers and an awning,
and here by-and-by they sat and watched the
moon creep up, and far away the lights of

France twinkling in and out. People were
about in numbers, strolling along; sounds of
gay laughter mingled with the soft rush of
the waves on the shingle, the sunset lights
still lingered on the sea, and the fresh light
air swept away the languor of the day's heat.
Presently two girls came into the garden and
looked up.

Lucy,' one of them called, ' aren't you
coming out ? '

She leant over the balcony. ' Not to-night.'

1 Then come down. I want to speak to
you particularly.'

She went unwillingly. She found the
evening interesting. George Lawrence could
talk well when it pleased him, and it had
pleased him that evening. He was glad to
meet Mrs. Winyeatt again, and he w T as very
well disposed to be cordial with Paul's sister.
But, without putting the feeling into shape,
he was glad that she should have been called

away, since it seemed to place him on a more
friendly footing with Mrs. Winyeatt. It was
easier, too, to allude to the past, and, as he
hoped, to let in a little wholesome air upon
her self-accusations, when Lucy was not present.
He said at once 

1 This is very unlike Borne.'

Very,' she said quietly.

And,' he said boldly, ; I don't know how
it is  it is all very charming and home-like,
but, if you won't think the remark impertinent,
altogether different from what I should
have expected to find your house.' He paused,
but as she said nothing, went on  ' I should
have supposed that you would have surrounded
yourself with beautiful tidings, brought
from all parts of the world. You were, you
know, the most enthusiastic follower of art I
ever came across. Have you lost your liking ? "

'No,' said Norma almost harshly. She
sat leaning forward, her hands clasped on her

knee, her eyes fixed on the moonlit sea. He
glanced at her, and went on.

Let me show you a few things which I
am bringing home, and which I picked up in
Greece. It isn't often that one gets hold of
anything unique, but I had the luck to find
myself in some places a little off the line, and
where I was the first spoiler. Have you read
B 's book on Greek Art ? '

< No.'

Then you must. I can lend it to you,
and my subjects won't make bad illustrations,
on the whole.'

Thank you  I don't think '

Lucy's voice interrupted them.

What are you talking about ? What is
Mr. Lawrence offering to lend? For pity's
sake, don't refuse anything, Norma, considering
that here we live in a sort of intellectual
desert ! Even if you are happy with your old
women, and your parish meetings, remember

that I am not blest with the same contentment.'


You can have what you like,' said Norma
gravely, ' but I am afraid that my old women,
as you call them, don't get all you imply.'

'Is that your new development, Mrs.
Winyeattr' asked Lawrence, interested. 'It
is really the very last I should have expected.'

She flushed, and Lucy laughed.

How little you know Xorma ! She does
the work of two curates, dragging about in
the heat and the cold ; and even when she is
in the house, there isn't a moment's peace,
somebody is always wanting to speak to her.
She thinks me a very useless person, Mr.
Lawrence, but believe me, we useless people
do a great deal towards keeping things together.
Xot being an old woman, it is possible
that but for me you might have come off very
badly at your dinner to-day. I hope you are
grateful ? '

Oh, I am very grateful ! ' he said gaily.
'Mrs. Winyeatt, if this is the case, I understand
why you have sacrificed art.'

Lucy opened her eyes.

6 Art ! Norma never cared about art 
never ! If it was anything about art you were
offering, you had better lend it to me ; I am
sure Norma never '

She was interrupted.

You are mistaken,' Norma said in a low
clear voice; 'I cared very much, too much
about it once, and I am afraid of it now. I
don't like saying so much about myself, but it
would not be honest to let you suppose I didn't
care. Thank you for your offer,' she said to
Lawrence with a smile ; ' now you understand
why I was ungracious.'

I don't think you were ungracious,' said
Lawrence very kindly. ' One might be sorry
to see you make such a sacrifice, but no one
has a right to judge, much less misjudge you.'

He was touched by the straightforward
manner in which she had made her little explanation,
though it seemed to him helplessly
inadequate. If he stayed on, as he almost
thought he would stay, for a few days, he
resolved to devote himself to shaking Xorma
out of these petty and narrowing trammels ; he
could not but remember how in old days she
had turned to him very eagerly, and lie told
himself that he was now more fitted than then
to be a guide. But for the present he let the
matter drop, in spite of one or two sarcastic
remarks from Lucy upon her sister-in-law's unexpected
disclosure. He was careful to keep
the conversation after this upon common
ground, and to let Xorma feel at her ease.
When he went away Lucy drew a deep breath.

What a mercy it is,' she said, ' to find a
man who can talk ! I like him.'

1 Do you ? ' said Xorma eagerly. ' I am

glad.'

They parted without arrangements for
meeting, but the meetings followed, nevertheless.
Followed the more quickly, perhaps, because
they were so spontaneous as to be almost
inevitable, each leading to the next in the most
natural manner imaginable, so that though
Lawrence was unused to finding himself so
frequently in a house which was not his own, it
caused him not so much as the least feeling of
surprise. He enjoyed it. He was grateful to
Lucy for an extraordinary facility for making
plans which fitted in with the need of the
hour. Her easy suggestiveness was never-failing,
and had nothing forced about it ; so
that although it sometimes caused her sleepless
hours, to Lawrence it gave no more than
the impression that he was being admitted, by
right of old friendship, into their daily life and
daily pleasures. The only thing remarkable,
and this it is true sometimes caused him a passing
thrill of amazement, was that he should have

liked it so well. He was not a man to be
easily pleased, and his pleasures often required
delicate adjustment of, at any rate, the means
of escape. His nature was one which disposed
him to reserve, and perhaps solitude.
Until now he had never realized how very
solitary his life had, in its deepest sense,
become. It appeared to him as if lie had
grown ten years younger in the few days that
had passed since landing that hot afternoon ;
but what had worked this spell, or wherein
lay the charm, he did not attempt to analyse.
In a few days his circle of acquaintances
had considerably enlarged, and everywhere
he was received with marked cordiality.
There was nothing noteworthy in the people
to make Lawrence so grateful as he felt for
this expression of kindness towards him ; at
another time it is more than likely that many
of them would have afforded him no more
than an opportunity to show his cleverness in

escape, but now he was  distinctly  grateful.
A small network of insignificant engagements
had somehow the effect of excusing his stay,
which otherwise could scarcely have been
accounted for.

He did not as yet acknowledge to himself
that his chief attraction lay in Norma
Winyeatt, though he admitted that the
renewal of his old acquaintance had induced
him to make the spot where she lived a
halting-place. The contrast, the change, and
yet the subtle likeness between her present
and her old self, interested him daily. The
bright impetuosity of the girl-wife had impressed
his memory more strongly than he
knew ; now it seemed as if she were bent upon
effacing this by another aspect of herself; he,
upon bringing back the old Norma. It always
pleased him when some chance allusion surprised
this last into being.

One evening, when he was dining out, the

desire took such hold upon him that he could
not help alluding to it to his hostess. She
was a kindly-faced person, the wife of an
officer holding a military appointment, and
she was one of those who had been particularly
cordial towards Lawrence. She found
her left-hand neighbour rather silent through
the dinner, and he roused himself at length to
apologise for the fact.

4 To tell you the truth,' she said smiling,
you have not been very brilliant. But I felt
that at any moment you might make amends.
That, you see, is the advantage of possessing
a reputation.'

You cover me with confusion,' he said.
1 I had better make a clean breast of it, even
at the cost of my reputation. It is anything
but brilliant, and almost unpardonable, to
allow the Past to make one deaf and blind to
the Present.'

1 hope,' she said, ; that at least it was

vol. i. G

a pleasant Past. You did not look unhappy.'


6 It was not personal at all,' he answered
lightly, ' and it is at your service. Mrs. Win-yeast
is the figure who has conjured it up.'
And how ? '

Quite unconsciously, as I need not assure
you. I knew her once under such different
circumstances, that when I see her now I find
myself perpetually returning to my first
impressions.'

4 1 think,' she said, ' that I should like to
hear what they were.'

They were very marked. Perhaps I
recall most strongly a buoyant enthusiasm, a
really tremendous grasp at the ideal. She
used to lose herself in its pursuit, she wanted
to drag every one after her. One knew that
it was what the world would call useless,
that nothing would come of it  Pegasus, and
that sort of thing  but it was interesting, it

made one watch her and wonder. And
then '

He paused. Just at that moment Norma
turned to answer something said to her by
her neighbour, and her face was suddenly
irradiated by a bright swift smile.

There, ' said Lawrence quickly, ' now
you see ! '

'Yes,' Mrs. Carrington replied thoughtfully.
'Yes, I see. Pray go on. I, too,
am interested in Mrs. Winyeatt. You were
saying  And then ? '

And then there came the great shock,
the tragedy of her life  her husband died
very suddenly. I dare say you know all
about it ? '

'I know the facts  the bare facts. Don't
think me heartless if I say that many women
have had to endure that terrible sorrow, and
that many years have passed since. You
seem to imply that there were special circumstances

in her case, and those I do not
know.'

Did I imply that ? I think,' he said,
looking again at Norma, ' that she has that
feeling more than any other person, more ' 
he hesitated  ' more than is justifiable. She
was very young, her whole being seemed fora
time to be absorbed by the delight of the
new worlds which Eome opened before her,
and she did not realise her husband's illness.
He was the most unselfish man I ever knew,
and he was anxious, perhaps mistakenly  I
think it was mistakenly  not to cloud her
happiness.'

4 Yes, it was a mistake,' said Mrs. Carrington.
' It made the shock terrible.'

It made the shock terrible, and the
effects have lasted. At first I did not realise
how much. The circumstances had naturally
faded from my mind, especially as I had not
seen or heard of her from that time to this.

'Ah,' said his hostess, dismissing from her
mind certain vague suspicions which had
gathered there.

But I see daily more and more that she
has never ceased to accuse herself of heartlessness
; and this is the reason,' he added,
turning to her with a smile, 'that I have
told you of the earlier days. You are her
friend, I have heard her speak of you very
kindly, and I think her friends may '  he
hesitated again  ' may help her,' he ended
abruptly.

That is it, is it ? ' Mrs. Carrington answered.
' Poor Norma ! '

She has a strong and noble nature,'
Lawrence went on. ' It is this very strength
which is perhaps against her. She does not
forget, and she will allow no excuses. And
having resolved upon a course of conduct,
she holds on her way inexorably.'

And this course of conduct ? '

6 Oh, you can see, any one can see ! ' he
returned with some impatience. ' She is like
other women in letting her feelings get the
better of her judgment. She is bent upon
starving those tastes and impulses which she
thinks led her into failure. She is always on
guard, always checking herself.'

There was a pause.

And you don't think she is happy ? You
don't think she is right ? ' asked Mrs. Carrington
softly.

No, I don't ! ' he said, almost savagely.
I don't think any one is right who cramps
nature in that fashion. You women have
different notions, I suppose. You would go
and gaze at St. Simon Stylites and think him
the finest fellow in the world. I shouldn't.
I should have more respect for the poorest
wretch who tried honestly to live out the life
which God had given him to live.' He had
spoken with fire, and the next moment

recovered himself. ' I beg your pardon,' he
said, in his ordinary voice ; c I ought not to
have talked like that  at a dinner-party. It
was very  what shall I call it ?  very inappropriate.'


Perhaps it was none the worse,' she
answered ; and then her other neighbour made
some remark to which she was obliged to pay
attention. She was a woman of so much
experience that she did not regard all interest
as necessarily culminating in love, yet she
could not but reflect that here were the
elements for its growth ; and it had been the
fate of so many to lose their hearts to Xorma
\Vinyeatt, that there would be nothing extraordinary
in George Lawrence carrying on
the tradition. Far more interest lay in the
question of Norma's attitude. Xo breath of
rumour had ever given her liking to one of
these many men whose names ]airs. Carrington
mentally ran over while she was discussing

the last military appointment with her neighbour
; yet there had been those who had been
worthy of any woman's love, and whom her
friends had, among themselves, wished that
she might favour. Mrs. Carrington found
herself looking at her and wishing once
more.

When Lawrence went into the drawing-room
that night he made his way at once to
Norma, who was sitting in a deep window-seat
with two girls, who gazed at her with
deep helpless admiration. She had lost the
disturbance of manner which had been noticeable
during the first day or two of his
stay, and now turned to him with a visible
brightening.

I have come,' he said, ' for compensation.
At dinner you were quite out of
reach.'

Yes ; but I was glad you had Mrs. Carrington.
She is my great friend.'

'That is saying a good deal,' remarked
Lawrence gravely. ' I wonder what qualities
you require for your friends ? '

I think it is the disposition to like me,'
she said, with a laugh. ' Isn't that half the
battle ? But with Alary Carrington a deeper
gratitude is excited, because you feel as if her
liking must make you better than you were
before.'

You raised my spirits very much when
you began,' he said ; ' it sounded delightfully
easy. But that ending ! Still, forgive me for
saying, that your reasons have a spice of
selfishness wrapped in them. You want all
the good yourself. Why can't you be friends
with people because you feel you might make
them better ? '

She shrank back.

'Oh, I couldn't ! ' she exclaimed. ' It
would be impossible. You don't know '

The two girls, who had been murmuring

together, at this point got up and went away.
Lawrence, with his eyes following them,
said 

If I am not mistaken, those young women
look upon you much as you look at Mrs.
Carrington.'

They are very young and ignorant,' said
Norma quickly. And then she went on in
an odd voice  ' Mr. Lawrence, don't say
things to me that are not true. If you only
knew how sickened one gets of the little compliments
people think themselves obliged to
make ! You never said those things in old
days ; I always felt that I could trust you 
that you would tell me the truth, even when
it meant blame.'

Did I blame you, then ? '

Yes,' she said steadily. ' Not in direct
words, because I would not have it; but I was
conscious of it all the while.'

I must have been an odious prig.'

She leaned forward and looked earnestly
at him, frowning slightly.

No,' she said ; ' only a real friend. I
hoped you would be my friend again.'

Lawrence moved uneasily.

I am not gainer to undertake the role of
general fault-finder,' he flung out ; and then ashe
saw a look of disappointment in her face,
went on desperately  ; Yes. I will, if that is
necessary to please you. I want to be friends,
Mrs. "Winyeatt, and am ready to promise all
things, possible and impossible, to gain my
end.'

4 Oh,' she said frankly, ' I have always
remembered you as a friend.'

 A very ' and then he pulled himself

up. ' Well,' he said, with a comical intonation,
; I won't quarrel with the means, if we
reach the right result. But if I engage to
make myself disagreeable, you must engage
not to fly off at a tangent.'

I am thankful to hear the truth, do you
understand ? ' she said impetuously ; and as
usual, Lawrence was half provoked and wholly
charmed. She had always been unconventional,
and there was something unconventional
now in her remorse, a frank trust in
his desire to serve her, a curious carelessness
as to his wish to please  he reflected ruefully
that the idea of this had apparently not
crossed her mind ; he realised at the same
time, with some surprise, that it was exceedingly
strong in his own.

With ev'ry pleasing, every prudent part,

Say. what can Chloe want ? '  ' She wants a heart :

She speaks, behaves, and acts j must as she ought,

But never, never, reach'd one gen'rous thought."  Pope.

IT iUCY "WIXYEATT sat at the writings
table in the little room which was

M - aa her own, and where Norma scarcely
ever came. She had a pen in her hand, and
a sheet of paper before her, but she was not
writing. She must have been chinking
instead, for she did not hear a knock until it
was loudly repeated, and followed by a half-opened
door and a girl's voice  ' May we
come in ? '

As you are here, there is no particular
use in my saying no,' said Lucy coolly.
'Well, what brings you so early?'

Oh, we came to tell you about last night.
It was a great success, and Janet's dress did
beautifully. It was such a pity you weren't
there ! '

I assure you I felt thankful. I get enough
of Mrs. Carrington's dull parties,' said Lucy
spitefully.

'Oh, but this wasn't dull, was it, Isabel?
I don't think any one could have called it the
least dull. Did'  hesitatingly  'did Mrs.
Winyeatt find it so ? '

Norma ? She thrives in dulness  it's her
element. But she hasn't said anything at all
about it, so you may launch into whatever
brilliant reports you like. Who was there?
I can tell you, though, before you speak.
Colonel and Mrs. Newton, Captain and Mrs.
Smith, Colonel and the two Miss Somerville,

three or four subalterns to balance the Miss
Somervilless, Xorma '

1 And Mr. Lawrence,' broke in Janet
Somerville eagerly.

1 And Mr. Lawrence,' repeated Lucy, with
a swift glance at the girl. 'And Mr. Lawrence.
He is becoming as much a matter of course
as any of the rest of you.'

I don't think I am a matter of course, as
it was my first dinner-party,' said Janet in a
slightly aggrieved voice.

'I see you so often that I can't think of you
as anything else,' returned Lucy carelessly ;
but it is possible that upon some people
you may produce a new effect. Well, and
how did the whirlpool of excitement strike
you when you were dashing about in it ? Did
people behave as you expected ? '

Mrs. Winyeatt looked lovely.' Janet
gave the information enthusiastically.

'That goes without saying, in some people's

eyes, yours among the number,' remarked
Lucy in the same tone as before.

And in Mr. Lawrence's.'

Ah, in Mr. Lawrence's ! ' She hesitated.
'How do you know? Did he discourse to
you of her charms ? '

'He was not likely to talk to me,' said
Janet simply. ' But I don't think it is difficult
to know when one person likes another ; you
can see when they look at them.'

6 And he went and sat by her,' put in her
sister.

4 Irresistible evidence! Well, my dear
Janet, I congratulate you. You seem to have
looked about you with great effect, and to
have made marvellous discoveries. I dare say
they would astonish no one so much as Mr.
Lawrence* himself.'

Lucy ! ' cried poor Janet, with agonised
emphasis, 'you wouldn't  you wouldn't tell
him ! '

Xot exactly. You see the next time you
were out your young observations might lead
you to altogether different conclusions. You
Avill have to get used to seeing one person
look at another.'

But when the girls had gone Lucy sat and
reflected with an intentness which their words
had not appeared to justify. She was far
more quick at noticing admiration for herself
than for other people, yet once or twice it
had struck her disagreeably that Lawrence
showed a preference for Xorma's society.
She wondered with great naivete why this
should be, for she was sincerely convinced
that she was far better company than Norma,
and it did not please her. Lucy Winyeatt
was not a bad or malicious sort of girl ; in her
own fashion and to her own degree she was
really fond of Xorma ; but she balanced both
people and tidings with a nice reference to
herself  the very weather was only approved

vol. I. II

of if it fell in with her moods ; and she was
capable of finding reason in the broadest flattery.
She wished to marry ; the prospect of a
house and establishment of her own attracted
her, and she had decided that Mr. Lawrence
more nearly approached her ideal of the
person through whom they should come
than any one whom she had seen of late.
For Norma to stand in her way would be
really unparalleled selfishness. Norma never
would marry. In some manner  Lucy did
not understand how  she had neglected Paul ;
all she could do now was to remain faithful to
his memory.

Certainly she should not interfere with his
sister.

Lucy's busy brain began to revolve little
plans  she had always an infinity of little
plans  for checking this incipient and inconvenient
idea of his, if it existed, in the bud.
Were the worst to appear probable, she

would appeal to Norma herself, meanwhile
would act in less direct fashion. Skilful
strategy was her strong point.

The day never passed without their seeing
George Lawrence. At first this had been
owing to Lucy's clever suggestiveness, but
now it was a sufficiently established habit for
him to appear without thinking it necessary
to frame an excuse. Xorma always greeted
him with cordiality; he liked Lucy and Agnes,
he even liked the room, barren though it was
of any decorative art. But there were sunshine
and flowers, and the signs of a sweet
womanly presence, and in some strange,
hitherto unknown way, these signs stirred
him. Lucy, having soon discovered that he
was a harmless maniac on the subjects of
Greek sculpture and coins, employed a delicate
cleverness in starting him upon one or
the other. He did not think so highly of her
interest as she imagined, but it amused him

H 2

to talk of tidings upon which he talked welland
 much more  it afforded him an opportunity
for spreading his nets before Norma.
She took no part in the discussion, generally
she worked at some austere garment, but he
was certain that she heard. Sometimes he
caught a swift, momentary, self betraying
glance ; sometimes he saw her hand carrying
the needle, pause for an instant or two suspended
in the air ; sometimes he could have
sworn she held her breath till he had answered
one of Lucy's neat questions. It gave him
so much delight to strike out these sparks of
old times, that he became quite eager to
encourage Lucy in her investigations  her
lessons, as she chose to call them.

6 Mother,' said Agnes one day, ' does Aunt
Lucy really like doing lessons ? '

1 1 think so ; don't you ? ' said her mother
gaily.

'Why?'

Perhaps she has a good teacher,' Norma

answered.

'Yes, I like Mr. Lawrence,' said Ague-drawing
a deep breath.

It pleased Norma to hear her say this  it

always pleased her to hear him praised by

those about her. It had never entered her

head to conceive of him in any light than as

Paul's , friend, and one who, though in old

days he had so righteously blamed her. might

in time become as truly her own. It seemed

j

to her as if his approval were, in a certain
fashion, Paul's own. She was glad to feel that
he was in sympathy with Paid's sister, Paul's
child ; and Lucy's sharp eyes had never succeeded
in detecting the shadow of an attempt
to draw him away from herself. Not by a
word did she divert his attention from these
incipient lectures of his, which he gave for
Lucy's edification ; only the mute signs which
he noticed and the girl did not, told that they

did not fall upon deaf ears. Not he, not Lucy,
however, knew what this restraint cost 
were aware what burning questions flew to
her tongue  what a sharp curb of remorse
held them back ! She had punished herself for
over-caring, by trying to kill her interest, and
now it had seemed to leap back to her heart,
not only alive but triumphant. She did not
guess that Lawrence, wholly impatient of
these scruples, was deliberately spreading
temptation before her  leaving photographs
in her way, talking at her ; that, had he
only dared, he would have liked to have swept
away her fancies by half a dozen rough
tender words. ' But, good Heavens ! ' he
said to himself, ' the only hold I have upon
her, is that she looks upon me as a sort of
Mentor. Because I found fault in old days,
I am tolerated now. Once forfeit that position,
and I become no more than one of those
other unfortunates who dangle about her, and

for whom she cares not a brass farthing
Once he had a brilliant idea. ' Suppose I tell
her that she's wrong now ? ' But he presently
shook his head. ' No,' he reflected ; c she
wouldn't believe me. She would think I was
only meanly pandering to her tastes, and all
her respect for me would be gone. I must
keep in her own lines or be nowhere.'

And, after all, he was for the present content
with his position. After wandering half
over Europe there was a great delight and
refreshment in this breezy place, where all
the colours were at once clear and delicate,
where the sparkle and brightness never
became monotonous, for mists swept across
the sea, and along the white headlands, and
there were lovely harmonies of white and
grey, and soft shadows drifting. The boats
and the people kept it cheerful ; there was
always a coming and going, a stretching out
of hands to other lands : the nets were drawn

full of silvery leaping fish ; often at night
there was the drag of a keel on the shingle,
and looking out it was possible to distinguish
in the darkness the dark sails of a boat
putting forth for her nightly toil. George
Lawrence had been in many lands, and had
often found himself hard to please ; here,
however, very simple things were creating a
satisfaction which might have surprised some
of his most intimate friends.

One cool evening they went for a walk
along the cliffs. Agnes had begged for this
little expedition, but, as usual, it was Lucy
who knew when the right moment had
arrived, and brought it out as a pleasant
suggestion. On their way they passed in
front of a row of houses, and here Lucy
made a stand.

Norma,' she said, ' would not Miss Ellison
enjoy a walk ? '

Norma looked a little surprised. Miss

Ellison was one of the few people who did
not like Lucy. The girl herself said so to
Lawrence, with a laugh, as she rang the
bell.

This is rather kind of me, if you only
knew it,' she said.  Miss Ellison worships
Norma, and thinks me a frivolous and undesirable
being. Still, poor old thing, she is
dreadfully lonely here, and I do think it would
be a charity to take her out. Promise not to
believe all she says ! '

She ran lightly upstairs before he had time
to answer, and Lawrence turned with a smile
to Norma.

4 She is very good-natured,' he said.

4 Yes,' said Xorma, frowning slightly. She
had often to restrain some short quick comment
upon Lucy's good-nature. Poor Xorma
was so true herself that Lucy's little roundabout
ways were a perpetual fret, and yet it
seemed both suspicious and uncharitable to

be aware of them. Why could she not do as
other people did ?

Here was Mr. Lawrence, who was quick -

sighted enough, he saw only the kindly outward
aspect of the little action ; why must
she be instantly touched with the conviction
that Lucy's real motive was unexpressed ?
She cried out with scorn at herself. It was
small-minded, it was contemptible. Once or
twice, when her indignation had found vent ina
look or word, Lucy had mildly hinted that
she was jealous. Never was an accusation
more unfounded, and yet the bare idea scathed
and humiliated Norma almost as if it had
been true. The truth was, that in her position
with Lucy she was unequally weighted ;
she could not judge her with the freedom of
thought she would have used towards another
person, and Lucy, who had an extraordinary
amount of thin cleverness, had found this
out. Norma felt like a monster of uncharitableness

as she stood in the doorway with
Lawrence, and waited for Lucy's return from
her errand of kindness.

She came at last, bringing Miss Ellison,
a shrewd-looking, long-lipped woman, with a
very honest expression.

I have captured her, you see ! ' said the
girl, with an air of triumph.

It didn't require much skill,' said the
new-comer ; ' I was tired of my own company,
and very glad to be invited.'

8 It was Lucy's thought,' Xorma put in
quickly

narrow path climbed the white cliffs ;
down below the tide stole in over rocks and
sea-weed ; there was an inspiriting sparkle in
the water, a sense of vastness and freshness
in the broad expanse which melted away into
blue distance. The sails were white, like the
cliffs and the sea-birds ; there was a favourable
breeze, and the ships were coming up with

every stitch of canvas spread. When they
reached the top and walked along the short
turf they were conscious of a sense of exhilaration.
Lucy made no visible effort to
detach Lawrence, but she put forth all her
powers of entertainment. She seemed to be
largely mixed up with the pleasantness of
things. And, beyond a doubt, it was a very
delightful world up there to those who cared
for the song of larks, for the glitter of broad
waters, for a glorious depth of blue, with
delicate drifting clouds. Agnes ran and
danced over the grass ; until now Lawrence
had never known she could be so gay. Presently
Miss Ellison dropped a little behind
with Norma.

I have just had a great surprise,' she
said. ' I have suddenly remembered that
I am fifty-five instead of twenty. Do you
know that the discovery has really given mea
shock? '

If I,' said Norma, ; found out the same
fact, I think I should be neither shocked nor
surprised.'

Miss Ellison shook her head.

That shows,' she answered, ; how foolish
you are, and how young ! You often strike
me as the youngest person of my acquaintance.'


Mrs. Winy eat t flushed impatiently.

4 You have said something of the sort
before, and I cannot tell why ! It is not
like yon.'

Never mind, my dear. You must hear the
truth now and. then ; you must consent to an
occasional mockery from those who are ready
enough to pretend with you sometimes. We,
who are well down the hill, find it a pleasant
farce to listen to those just clambering up to
the top, when they call after us that they are
close on our heels. Only all the while they
know. and. we know, that it is a farce. You

are exactly twenty-two years younger than
I am.'

1 Oh, years ! '

It's a stupid way of reckoning, I'll allow ;
but there it is, and I don't know that there is
anything so mathematical to be put in place
of it. And after all, it's well to have something
fixed to balance our ideas ; otherwise,
between your feeling yourself so old, and my
feeling you so young, we should never know
where we were.'

It is absurd of you ! ' said Norma, still
impatiently. ' What do I say or do to give
an idea of youth ? '

6 Why, that's the very point ! ' cried Miss
Ellison quaintly. She changed the subject ina
measure  or rather the object. 'There's
Lucy for another contradiction. I am sure
she would tell you she felt as young as Agnes,
and yet she's as old as Methuselah. When
I'm listening to her with all the respect one

should pay to one's elders, I suddenly remember
her years, and recover myself again.'

I think you are rather unkind to Lucy,'
said Norma gravely.

1 Perhaps. Recollect that I am often a
good deal overawed. But, indeed, I do not
think your accusation quite just. I don't
profess to like her, but I give you my word
that I admire her very much. Diplomacy
has always a fascination for me. Xow, why
was I brought with you to-day ? '

Mrs. Winyeatt looked at her in dismay.

Why ?  what do you mean ? ' she
faltered.

1 Oh,' returned Miss Ellison laughing,
there's a reason somewhere, of course.
That's a part of the entertainment. I dare say
it's the most harmless of reasons  and, indeed,
I begin to think I know what it is  but I
don't see why we should be defrauded of the
amusement of seeing it at work. Do you P '

As Norma was silent, she went on questioning.
1 Mr. Lawrence is an old friend of yours, is
he not?'

He was an old friend of Paul's,' said Mrs.
Winyeatt, without lifting her eyes.

But a new one of Lucy's ? '

'Yes, a new one of Lucy's,' Norma
assented, looking at her in surprise. Then a
light came into her eyes. ' Oh ! ' she cried,
do you think that would be possible ? '

'I don't think about it. lam only wondering
what Lucy thinks.'

Nothing, then ! '

Miss Ellison shook her head.

My dear Norma, you are not a very
acute discerner. Or, if you are by nature,
you've learnt the lesson of persistently shutting
your eyes when you feel the impulse to
look. In this case I take the more delight inforcing
them open, because it is Lucy's care
which has provided me for your companion.

One doesn't mind being a passive instrument,
but it rather sets one on one's mettle, at the
same time, to prove that one might be something
else.'

Norma did not appear to be listening to
this explanation. She walked silently on fora
while, then turned to her companion.

1 1 hope, I do hope, it may be as you
imagine,' she said very earnestly.
You would like it ? '

How could I help it ? And Paul would
have been so pleased ! '

1 But, mind you, I am only regarding
it from one point of view. Mr. Lawrence
may be very well able to take care of himself.'


Xorma took no notice of this shaft ; she
was still considering.

I think I was rather stupid not to
suspect,' she said presently. ' When one
comes to consider it, why should he have

VOL. I. I

stayed on here ? It isn't the sort of place he
would naturally like. And then Lucy is so
very popular and attractive ! '

Well, what will you do ? '

'Do? I shall do nothing. I can only be
Mad.'

6 Don't be too glad,' ventured Miss Ellison.

6 Why ? What do you mean ? '

First, because there's no unmixed good ;
and secondly, because, after all, we haven't
an idea what are his feelings in the matter.'

'But you will admit that his staying
means something ? '

Oh, his staying means that he wishes to
stay, no doubt.'

Well ? ' said Norma, turning upon her a
satisfied look.

Miss Ellison did not know what to say
next. She felt as if she would have been
more prudent if she had abstained from
saying so much.

4 Well,' she answered slowly. ' He probably
liked meeting with an old friend.'

4 Yes,' Xorma allowed frankly, ' that was
no doubt his first inducement.'

Miss Ellison glanced at her.

4 Don't take my idle talk too seriously,'
she said, 4 or I shall feel that I may have done
a mischief.'

4 But you couldn't,' replied the other ;
4 you could only have done a mischief if I had
set myself against it ; and I am not likely todo
that, am I?'

4 Xo,' said Miss Ellison slowly, 'no. You
are not likely to do that.'

4 Then there is no possible harm ! '

To this, however, her companion made no
answer. She was looking before her at Lucy
and Mr. Lawrence, who had paused under a
low bank and were waiting for them. As they
came up Lucy was speaking with great animation,
and Miss Ellison was obliged to confess

i 2

that she looked exceedingly pretty. Perhaps
it is a truism to remark that she always
looked prettiest when she was pleased ; but at
any rate there was now a considerable amount
of piquancy in her face, and her complexion
was as delicately fresh as a rose-leaf. Prettiness
is a charming sight, and it was a little
ungrateful of Miss Ellison to glance at Lawrence
with some displeasure.

4 1 suppose, because he is a man, and likes
to feel that it is put out for him,' she reflected
contemptuously, l that all this vivacity pleases
him. Well, let him marry her, and take her
away ! '

6 Mr. Lawrence is a very obliging person
Lucy was saying. ' He does his best to respond
to our little efforts for his amusement
without fencing himself round with all the
better things he has seen. Aren't you grateful
to him, Norma ? I am.'

Of course she is,' interposed Lawrence.

Isn't it human nature to heap kindnesses
upon people, and then be eternally thankful
ever after? Miss Ellison, won't you let me
earn your gratitude in some such way ? '

But though he spoke in this light fashion
to Miss Ellison, he looked at Norma, and
somehow there was that in his look which
startled the former lady.

I do believe,' she reflected, ' that he's a
wiser man than I thought, and that Lucy has
nothing to do with it, after all. And I'm
sorry I said that to Norma, because I may
have set her on an entirely wrong tack,' she
ended with a sigh. ' Well, he must get it
right again  he has no right to throw dust in
our eyes.'

CHAPTER IV.

And who could blame the generous weakness

Which, only to thyself unjust,
So overrated the worth of others,

And dwarfed thy own with self-distrust ?

Whither.

Here is no accounting for sensations,
especially for the sensations of a man
in love. In that walk over the hilltop,
Lawrence had apparently devoted himself
to Lucy, yet he was under the unauthorised
impression that he had somehow grown
nearer to Norma. The only way of accounting
for this delusion is that his mind was
gradually more and more possessed by her
image ; it seemed a palpable fact which no

one could mistake, and he only thought of
Lucy as of some one. something, belonging
to Norma. Sometimes, indeed, a momentary
jar was produced, but he was not moody
enough himself to fasten upon trivialities ; and
if they thrust themselves upon him, he treated
them  in a woman  as a feminine peculiarity
which required forbearance, and in a man asa
reason for falling back from closer acquaintance.


He was, however, old enough to be aware
of and to value greatly his present feeling of
happy enjoyment. Nothing of late years had
seemed strong enough to arouse it ; and when
such a feeling has become a memory, to find
it suddenly revivified, is to taste it with quite
an added delight. It had grown up, too, very
simply and unsought. Nothing had been
farther from his thoughts when he stepped up
the narrow gangway and on to the pier, than
that anything in the place could prove attractive.

The instant lie saw Mrs. Winyeatt a
certain satisfaction seized him ; it seemed almost
as if her figure had all these years lain
hidden in his heart, waiting to reveal itself,
and yet the notion was preposterous. So, too,
was the feeling that these summer days would
last for ever, each only growing fairer than
the last ; and yet, and yet again, that such a
feeling could exist was in itself an intoxicating
return of what had seemed no longer
possible. He had never felt old, or thought
of himself as verging upon middle age, but
now he was sure that he was still splendidly
young. Nor was he visited by many serious
misgivings as to Norma. Perhaps he had not
yet reached that stage, perhaps the evident
friendliness with which she had received him,
carried encouragement ; it is certain that he
did not lay his reception so completely as she
imagined to the fact of his having been Paul's
friend  he made it a much more personal

affair ; and the remembrance that lie bad
ever blamed her, which she imagined to be
always present with him, now seemed to
him to belong to nothing except youthful
priggishness.

Miss Ellison's somewhat indiscreet remarks,
if they did something towards injuring
George Lawrence's prospects, had at first the
effect of improving his position. Norma was
anxious, almost feverishly anxious, to do all
that she could for Lucy ; and she told herself
that as these art searchings of Lucy's, which
were the cause of much scrupulous upbraiding
of her own conscience, gave the requisite
opportunity, which otherwise might have been
lacking, it was her duty to second them by all
the encouragement in her power. Yielding
so far, it did not seem consistent to throw cold
water upon Lawrence's unblushing endeavours
to draw out her interest. She supposed that
he found it more easy and natural when she

allowed herself to be included in the circle ;
she had been conscious before that her placing
herself so decidedly on the outside, created a
sort of stiffness, though perhaps she had felt
this more than the others. But at any rate,
the yielding, so far as it went, gave her intense
pleasure. The interests she had so long
crushed down, leapt triumphantly from their
prison ; and although she never made a remark
unless in answer to a direct question from
Lawrence, she no longer tried to prevent herself
from listening, and her keen apprehension
responded to or combated his theories with a
new and delightful sense of freedom.

He was clever enough to place himself
always where he could see her. Besides her
beauty, she had that rare and irresistible
charm of fascination which cannot be described
by words, and he found an intense
pleasure in watching her movements, the
turn of her head, the light which stole into

her eyes. He did not allow himself to confuse
her by letting her see the object for
which he had chosen his position, and as
nothing was farther from her thoughts, she
made no discoveries ; but he cared not a
farthing how far Lucy penetrated ; he believed,
indeed, that she could not be blind to
what .he felt so strongly, and he flattered
himself that he had her good wishes. One
day he ventured on what lie himself considered
rather a bold step ; he produced a
very beautiful photograph which bore to him
such an unmistakable likeness to Norma,
that he had for days been longing to compare
it with her living self. Now that he
could do this, it seemed to him that the
resemblance was extraordinary. He laid it
before her.

 Who is this ? ' she asked, taking it up.

He named the painter, and added, ; It is
the most beautiful face I know.'

It is beautiful, I suppose,' she assented
slowly ; ' but I should like it better if it were
more restful, less impetuous. This poor
thing would always be making mistakes.'

Her mistakes would be enchanting,' said
Lawrence hardily. ' Do you see a likeness to
any one you know ? '

Norma held it a little from her, and then
returned it to a nearer view. ' No,' she said
at last.

8 Let me look,' said Lucy, stretching over ;
I always see likenesses.' The next moment
her face changed. ' Likeness ? No,' she said
coldly.

Lawrence was disappointed. It was so
plain to him, that he never doubted that
Lucy would at once comprehend ; perhaps he
had a lurking desire that she should have
proclaimed aloud what he could scarcely
point out himself.

I see it strongly,' he remarked, ' but

there's no accounting for the different manner
in which these things strike people.'

Then it is some one we all know ? ' said
Mrs. Winyeatt Cjiiestioningly.

1 Ah, I am not sure that you have ever
seen her,' answered Lawrence carelessly. He
possessed himself again of the photograph.

That explains it,' said Lucy, appropriating
the remark. He did not contradict her,
and she went on  ; Otherwise I was just wondering
if you could mean Janet Somerville.'

 Hardly.'

Something in the girl's manner provoked
Lawrence. It did not seem to him that anyone
could fail to see the resemblance ; and to
suppose that he could have had Janet Somerville
in his mind was almost offensive. Lucy
gave him a quick look. ' Anyway, Mr. Lawrence,'
she said, ' I am glad to have seen
your ideal.'

1 Did I say so much as that ? '

You said it was the most beautiful face
you knew.'

And don't you say the same ? '

No. You shouldn't accuse me of being so
absolutely devoid of every spark of originality.
Honestly, I don't call her very beautiful, and I
am convinced that she could be very obstinate.'

George Lawrence smiled.

Let her be what she likes,' he said
warmly, ' I stick to my opinion. There's
another type for you,' he added, putting
down a second picture before her. ' Does
that suit you better ? '

The talk that day did not seem to run as
easily as usual. Lawrence was abstracted,
Lucy wore a somewhat injured look. Norma
noticed the constraint, and was sorry for it.
Presently she laid down her work.

To-morrow is Agnes' birthday,' she said ;
6 what shall we do with ourselves ? '

1 Let us go to Calais,' returned Lucy,
throwing an air of resigned impossibility
about the suggestion.

Norma did not immediately answer. Then
she quietly said, ' Very well

1 Did you really mean it ? ' cried the girl,
jumping up and rushing at her. ' Xorma,
I never believed you would consent ! Oh,
this is charming, delightful ! '

Lawrence began to laugh. ' Has this
been the secret longing of your life, Miss
Winyeatt F '

Yes ; you may laugh, but it has, and
Xorma would not go. I have been with
some people, but it is so difficult to find anyone
who will take the trouble just to cross
and come back again. Don't, don't say anything
against it ! '

1 Trust me. Xot if all possible pangs of
sea-sickness stood in the way.'

They don't ! I am sure you are never
ill?'

He only laughed and glanced at Mrs. Win-yeast.
Lucy's delight seemed so fresh and
unaffected that he found it very pleasant, but
something in Norma's face was unsympathetic ;
she seemed to be on the point of speaking,
and then to check herself. It did not affect
her sister-in-law.

6 You are our good genius, Mr. Lawrence ; '
she exclaimed. 'I am sure that it is your
being here which has made Norma consent.
Agnes and I might have begged and prayed
in vain for anything so charming, though it
is her birthday.'

Ao-nes may not think it charming,' said
Norma quickly.

4 Oh, Norma, don't be depressing ! '

'If you are afraid of the weather, Mrs.
Winyeatt,' put in Lawrence, ' I think the
chances are that the sea will be on the

best of terms with everybody. Look at it
now.'

He could not understand this little want
of sympathy on her part ; but whatever it
was, she put it aside.

4 Well, we will go by the early boat.'

There is Agnes ; I must tell her ! ' cried
Lucy enthusiastically.

Agnes came in, grave and doubtful ; but
her eyes sparkled a little when she heard the
project.

Shall you like it P ' asked her mother.

8 We can buy chocolate camels,' put in
Lucy under her breath.

1 Yes,' said the child after a moment's
deliberation. She went and stood by Lawrence,
who had his hand upon the photograph,
drew it from him, and looked from
it to her mother and back again.

Well ? ' he asked, enjoying her perplexity.


vol. i. K

1 Is it mamma ? ' she hesitated.

 Is it like her ? '

Yes, of course. Only it isn't her.'

She,' corrected Norma. ' Which has
Agnes picked out as my likeness ? Oh,
that ! ' She laughed with frank unconsciousness.
'You have wonderful ideas of your
mother, Agnes ! '

She has good eyes,' said Lawrence
quietly.

'A good child's imagination, you should
say. All the people she loves, she idealises.'

Something perhaps in Lawrence's expression
made her break off suddenly. She got
up and went to the window, and Lawrence
began to gather his possessions together. He
made some feeble jest about going out to
bespeak a fine crossing, but Mrs. Winyeatt
cave no sign of having heard, nor did she,
as he had hoped, volunteer an invitation for
that evening. He was seized with a misgiving

that the photograph episode had offended her ;
at any rate, a barrier seemed to have sprung
up. Yet in spite of his fears he felt something
approaching to triumph that she should
have been forced to understand ; and ashe
walked down to the harbours, with their
picturesque crowd of shipping, he said to
himself that things had fallen out precisely ashe
desired.

Left to themselves, the two women were
at first silent. Norma remained standing by
the window. Lucy sat clown again and took
up a book. As Agnes passed on her way to
the door, she put out her hand and stopped
her gaily.

You might say something to me, Agnes,
for getting you such a good birthday tomorrow.'


'Did you do it for me? 7 demanded the
little girl, looking at her with her large grave
eyes.

4 What a little unbeliever you are ! '
laughed Lucy. ' I assure you everything
hinges on your birthday. Don't put it
off!'

As the child closed the door, Norma came
to the table and stood near her sister-in-law,
who kept her eyes on her book.

Why did you say that, Lucy? ' she asked
in a low voice.

The other looked up quickly.

My dear, you startle one with your
solemn questions ! Mayn't I tell Agnes not
to put off her birthday ? '

You know it wasn't that.'

What was it, then?'

You made her think it was for her
pleasure you suggested going tomorrow.'

Well, and wasn't it ? '

Oh ! ' said Norma, impatiently turning
away. She came back again as if by an
effort. 'And you know you have been more

often than you allowed Mr. Lawrence to
believe.'

Ah, now I know ! ' said the girl, with a
laugh. ' You are afraid lie will think you a
tyrant ! ' The next moment she sprang up
and kissed Norma. 'No, no!' she cried,
penitently, ' that isn't a bit true ; he never
can think you anything but what you are, the

dearest, best I hate myself! Only, you

see, Norma,' she went on, coaxingly  'or if
you don't see, it is because you don't understand
these things  that when, when a girl
thinks a man likes her, it's a dreadful temptation
to put forward the best side of oneself.
If I'm not so very unselfish, I should like him
to think me so. And a man  such a man as
Mr. Lawrence  is always delighted that a girl
should be easily pleased, particularly delighted
when he is not easily pleased himself. He
considers it a proof of amiability, of simplicity.
Xow, Xorma, I have spoken quite

frankly. You may think it very shocking,
but I owe it to you.'

Lucy wore indeed an air of extremest
candour ; it was Mrs. Winyeatt who looked
troubled and doubtful. She even grew a
little pale, and her eyes sank before Lucy's
gaze.

'I did not know you felt like this,' she
said at last in a low voice.

My dear, you never did see very quickly.'

There was a touch of contempt in the tone,
but Norma did not heed it.

Has he said anything to make you think
he cares ? '

1 Ah,' returned Lucy coolly, ' that's asking
me to confide a good deal.'

There was a pause.

Yes,' said Norma gravely ; ' but it seems
to me that a good deal hangs upon it.'

Tell me first. Has the idea never presented
itself to you before ? '

4 Yes.'

How long ago ? '

That clay on the cliffs. Miss Ellison said
something  she said she thought it possible
Norma answered reluctantly.

Lucy's eyes brightened triumphantly.

There, then ! I'm sorry if you don't
like" it.'

Norma turned upon her with unmistakable
amazement.

Not like it, Lucy ! You must know that
I should like anything which brought you
happiness.'

That's very nice of you,' said the girl
calmly ; ' you are very nice, Norma, as I
have always felt  but then, you must leave
me alone. You want to know whether he
has said anything ? Well, he hasn't  exactly.
If he had, I shouldn't require these preliminaries.
Only, 3 t ou see. there are ways of
letting one know without words.'

And,' said Mrs. Winyeatt slowly, ' you
are satisfied that  that -'

She paused, but Lucy answered as if the
question had been completed 

'Xo, I am not satisfied. I should think
you might understand so much from what I
have said. Of course, I should be extremely
glad if I could tell you that he had spoken
out clearly and unmistakably ; all that I can
say is that I think he will.'

Norma had moved restlessly away, now
she came back.

Lucy,' she said, laying her hand on the
girl's shoulder, ' at any rate you know your
own feelings  are you sure you love
him'? '

6 1 shall wait to answer that question until
he has asked it,' answered the girl with a
light laugh. ' And I will give you another.
Is it judicious to waste one's feelings before
one is certain of his ? '

Oh  judicious ! ' cried Xorrna, staring at
her.

'Let me point out to you,' Lucy went
gravely on, ' that that is the sort of thing you
ought to be saying to me. You are dreadfully
particular and strait-laced about some
things, but, my dear, directly anything serious
presents itself, you are as wildly romantic as
as l  she broke into a laugh  ' no, I don't
know any one with whom to compare you ;
you are the most romantic person of my
acquaintance

Xorma would not smile.

'If I could only be sure  ' she said.

'Of what?'

 Of your really caring. Let me say
something, Lucy.'

Something disagreeable, you should add.
That's what people always mean after such a
preamble. However  say on ! '

I do not wish it to be disagreeable

Norma answered quietly. ' I think you will
own yourself that you like to make-people
care about you  men and women, I mean. It
gives you a sense of power, which you enjoy.'

4 Perhaps,' returned Lucy, with an air of
extreme candour.

1 Is that what is urging }'Ou now ? Is it
only love of conquest? '

'Would that be more shocking than
losing my heart before I know whether he
cares to have it ? '

She had the advantage of being cool and
collected, while Norma was evidently stirred
by feeling.

4 Oh,' she cried passionately, 4 1 do not
believe you have a heart ! '

4 You might leave that to him to determine,'
retorted Lucy loftily. 4 My own impression
is that I have as much as other
people ; and if we married, I dare say we should
at least get on as well as you and Paul.'

There was a silence. When Norma broke
it, it was in a low changed voice.

You are right,' she said ; ' I had no right
to say what I did.'

4 Xo,' said Lucy emphatically. And byway
of improving her position she continued
' You often imply, Norma, that I don't offer
you confidences. I can't say that I think your
way of receiving them is very encouraging

I am sorry." said the elder woman with
an effort. ; I did not mean to be unsympathetic,
I don't think I should be if only I
I really felt there was anything with which
to sympathise.'

I Well, that's what we both want ; that's
what I hope you will have by-and-by.'

I I wonder why you said anything to me ? '
exclaimed Xorma suddenly.

For the first time Lucy showed a slight
embarrassment. Then she answered quickly
enough

' I don't want you to throw cold water or
to interfere with my little plans, that's all.
It is difficult enough to do everything for
oneself, without your sitting by with a disapproving
face. He has a great respect for
you, and if he fancied you did not approve of
anything I said or did '

Why should I disapprove ? '

Why, indeed ! You ought to be very
glad to get rid of me.'

No, no  don't say that ! ' exclaimed
Norma with a rush of remorse.

Of course I've no claim on you,' Lucy
continued unheeding ; ' I'm only Paul's sister.'

8 Lucy ! '

Oh,' persisted the girl, ' it's much better
to look these things straight in the face.
You mean to be kind, Norma, but it's not
the same as a blood relationship. Your
feelings for me are not like your feelings
for Bessie, for instance ; it stands to nature

that they can't be ; and of course I know it,
and of course it is not very pleasant to me
to be dependent. I should be exceedingly
thankful to have a home of my own ; and
I tell you frankly that I hope you will not
stand in my way.'

Every word of this speech, which was
uttered slowly and clearly, seemed to cut
Norma with a lash. Only Paul's sister!
Only !

Don't speak like that, Lucy  you will kill
me ! ' she cried impulsively. ' How can you
talk of being dependent, or as if you weren't
welcome ! Don't you know that my one wish
is that this should be your home  yours in
the fullest sense ? Can you suppose that I
grudge you anything ? '

You mustn't grudge me Mr. Lawrence,
then,' said Lucy composedly.

Xorma drew back sharply, roused to resentment.


6 You speak very strangely,' she said.

He isn't in love with me yet,' the girl
went on, unheeding, 'perhaps he is just as
nearly being in love with you.' She began to
laugh as Norma turned a startled face upon
her. ' My dear, that is not an impossibility,
whatever you may suppose. At the same
time, it would be a pity and a loss, because
you don't mean to marry again, and he would
have all his pains for nothing. Don't you
see ? It might be pleasant, but it would be a
real waste.'

Norma stood facing her.

Why do you say all this to me ? ' she
asked again coldly.

Simply because I think we had better
understand each other. You cannot complain
that I have not told you everything.'

6 Oh, I wish you hadn't, I wish you
hadn't ! ' cried Mrs. Winyeatt. Lucy looked
at her with a smile of compassion.

'It is not romantic enough to please you,
is it? Xever mind ; the romance may come
afterwards.'

You do not even pretend to like him ! '

Oh yes, I do. I like him better than
most people.'

'Ah, he is worth more than that!'
exclaimed Xorma impulsively, and Lucy's
smile changed a little curiously.

You take it very much to heart, Xorma !
I wonder why ? '

How can I help taking it to heart ? '

On my account, or  his ? '

But if she hoped to disconcert her sister-in-law,
she failed. Xorma answered her
frankly and at once.

On both. He was Paul's friend, and you
are Paul's sister ; and don't you suppose it
hurts me to think of your wishing to marry
him without love, and only because you don't
feel at home with me, and you talk of being

dependent ? Haven't I always treated you asa
sister ? '

s You have tried, but  we are not sisters
said Lucy, with a hard little smile. Then she
suddenly jumped up. ' What geese we are
to talk like this ! Don't worry yourself, I'm
not pretending that you beat or ill-use me ; on
the contrary, you're as good as gold, and I'm
extremely fond of you. Only we can't go on
for ever as we are, and I must look out for
myself; moreover, you and I are different
natures. I have told you already that you
are far more romantic than I am, and that we
don't see things in the same light. All the
same, if it is any consolation to you, I promise
not to kidnap Mr. Lawrence. He will choose
for himself. Do tell me. Is that a consolation
to you ? Do you really feel called upon
to protect him ? '

Norma's cheeks burned for an hour after
this interview; some of Lucy's small shafts had

struck home. What, indeed, had she to do
with George Lawrence ? She told herself
again and again that it was Lucy's conduct
which had disturbed her ; that it had shocked
her to find the girl deliberately trying to
enchain him, without even the excuse of
strong affection, and it was quite certain that
Xorma's proud spirit would at any time have
revolted against such a course. But, if she
were proud, she was also transparently true ;
she never tried to deceive herself, and when
she made discoveries they were faced without
flinching. Why, when the girl had spoken of
the possibilities of George Lawrence being in
love with her  Norma Winyeatt  had her
heart leapt up, and the blood tingled in her
veins ? It tingled now for shame when she
remembered it. What did it mean? She
had thought of herself as Paul's, entirely and
for ever ; she had welcomed Mr. Lawrence as
vol. i. L

Paul's sister

his friend, if her own judge ; she had believed
herself to have Lucy's welfare deeply
at heart, and this this was the outcome of
it all !

An open foe may prove a curse,

But a pretended friend is worse.  Gay.

HEX Lawrence strolled round to
Mrs. Winyeatt's house the next
morning, it was with the comfortable
assurance that their crossing would have
all the advantages which weather could provide.
The sea was of a fresh and exquisite
blue, and a favouring wind was bringing quite
a cloud of white canvas down channel. The
sun was hot, but there was no fierceness in
his rays. Altogether it was a cheering and

L 2

inspiriting day, and in spite of a letter which
he carried in his pocket, and which was
not, it must be owned, of a cheerful nature,
Lawrence was conscious of the same access of
light-heartedness which had made itself felt
ever since the day he landed. It was too
agreeable to be analysed. He accepted it
with enough wonder to avoid digging at its
roots to discover the reason of its existence.
He was, however, conscious that it related to
Norma, and began, rash man, to desire that
it should be turned into a lasting possession.
The little incident of the photograph must,
lie felt sure, have opened her eyes to his
feelings, so that he might now advance more
freely; and he quickened his steps at the
thought, which carried with it an inward
prevision of triumph. He ran up the stairs
taking - two at a time, and almost falling over
Agnes, who rushed out of a room in an unusual
condition of excitement.

'Oh,' she said, giving a jump of delight,
1 isn't it lovely ! Is it time to start ? '

4 There's time enough for you to unfasten
this parcel, and see if it's the sort of thing
you care should give you good wishes,' said
Lawrence. He left her rapturously happy on
her knees before a settee, and was shown into
the drawing-room, which, to his disgust,
appeared full of people. Lucy disengaged
herself from the others, and Xorma, who
had her back turned and did not at once
move, hated herself for being irritably conscious
of Lucy's little air of appropriation
with which she welcomed the new-comer.
She punished herself by resolutely talking to
Colonel Somerville, until Lawrence deliberately
made his way round to her.

4 I'm a little afraid of you, you're so
barricaded,' he said ; 4 in fact the room is
rather unexpectedly alarming. Are we all
going?'

1 A good many, I think,' returned Mrs.
Winyeatt carelessly.

Colonel Somerville had moved away ; Lucy,
who had followed Lawrence, made a face of
disgust.

Do scold Norma ! It's her doing. I
wanted to have kept it to ourselves.'

< You ' began her sister-in-law, and

stopped abruptly. She had been going to
say that Lucy had asked Isabel Somerville.
6 1 thought we might have found it rather dull
if we had been quite alone. I am sorry if
you do not like it,' she added.

Oh, I  I like anything, so long as you
don't leave me behind ! ' said Lawrence cheerfully.


He had been momentarily vexed, but,
after all, it did not matter. He shook hands
with Miss Ellison, who, he found, was to be
one of the party, and a young Mr. Eose was
introduced to him, and then it was time to go

down to the pier. Xorma lingered for a
moment to call Agnes, and Lawrence lingered
too ; he intended on that day to seize or
make opportunities without hesitation. Agnes
threw him a grateful glance and caught her
mother's arm.

6 What do you think Mr. Lawrence has
brought me ? ' she demanded. 4 Guess. But
you'll never be right.'

4 Then I give up at once,' said Norma,
hurrying on.

4 1 wish you'd try, though. Well, it's the
most beautiful little musical-box ! '

Lawrence glanced at Mrs. Winyeatt. He
had heard her say once that she was fond
of musical-boxes, and it must be owned his
present had had more to do with her than
with Agnes. She kept her head turned away,
and said coldly 

4 1 am sorry that Mr. Lawrence should
have given you such a valuable present.'

He was chilled, more by the tone than the
words.

1 1 assure you, it's a very trifling affair,' he
said eagerly ; ' you don't really object, I hope,
to my trying to find something which should
please Agnes ? '

She had walked so quickly that they had
overtaken the others ; some one made a remark
and she said no more. Colonel Somerville
and his eldest daughter were not to be
of the party, though they went down to see
them on board ; they had a choice of seats
before the London trains came in, and established
themselves comfortably. Lawrence
had resolved to get a seat next to Mrs. Win-yeast,
and he was a man who generally carried
out his resolutions. This time, however, he
was baffled, for after he had, as he thought,
secured his point, Norma deliberately rose
and asked Lucy to change places with her,
as there was something she wanted to say to

Miss Ellison. Lucy was unusually deprecatory.


1 I'm very sorry you should have to put
up with me,' she remarked. 'It isn't my
fault.'

If Lawrence was offered an opportunity,
he did not take it ; he was decidedly in a bad
humour.

1 Why on earth are all these people here ? '
he demanded. ' They make one feel quite
overgrown.'

6 It was a fancy of Norma's.'

Mrs. Winyeatt is not often unreasonable.'
Then he began to laugh  ' I expect it's I who
am unreasonable. The fact is, I wanted this
to be an especially nice day.'

'Why?'

Because I may not have many more.'

Are you going away ? '

He caught Lucy's look, which was appealing,
almost frightened, and it touched him,

and made him more ashamed of his ill-humour.


It will not be by my own will,' was his
answer ; ' I need hardly tell you that ; but it
is possible that I may have to leave.'

She made no comment, and only turned
away her head ; but though he was not a vain
man, it appeared to him that his words had
disturbed her a good deal. It swept over
him at the same moment that much of the
enjoyment of his stay had been owing to her,
and that he had been ungracious in allowing
her to see that the change of companionship
had vexed him. He would hardly have let
himself go so far, but that he was under the
impression that his feelings for Norma were
patent to all the world ; most patent of all,
perhaps, to Norma's sister. No one was
likely to hear a word that was said. The
boat was well on her way, groups of chairs
were disposed all about the deck, on which

sat people entrenched with bags and bundles.
Next to Lucy was Mr. Eose, who had turned
his back and was talking with all his might to
Janet Somerville ; beyond them were Norma
and Miss Ellison. Lawrence leaned forward
and said earnestly 

4 Believe me, I shan't soon forget the good
time you have given me here.'

4 You mean '  she said, without turning 
4 that you are going to bring everything to an
end ? '

Something in the words took him a little
by surprise.

4 Only myself, Pm afraid. I shall have
to put up with the knowledge that all this
pleasant life of yours is going cheerfully on,
while I have shut myself out from it.'

4 Don't go,' she said in a low voice.

His thoughts were filled with one subject.

4 You are very good to care,' he said
reflectively.

4 Don't go,' she repeated. ' These happy-times
never come a second time.'

Sometimes happier ones come in their
places,' said Lawrence, with a smile. He was
not really discouraged yet, though something
in the day had disappointed him.

c Sometimes. You cannot tell,' she said
eagerly. 'It is wiser not to part with what
we have.'

But philosophy seldom holds its own
against nature. Philosophy says " Be content
" ; nature insists that there is something
better to be had.'

Well, for once be a philosopher.'

Before he answered he glanced round at
Mrs. Winyeatt. She was leaning forward
without speaking ; the soft shadow of her hat
rested upon her upturned face, all its delicate
yet spirited curves seemed to be thrown into
prominence ; there was a certain frank nobility
about her, a simple unconsciousness of self,

which often struck Lawrence, and at this
moment swept over him with a force which
almost made him giddy.

No,' he said, as much to himself as to
Lucy, 'no. Philosophy is not for me.'

Then,' she said with a ring of sharpness
in her tone, ' you mean to go ? '

To go ? ' he repeated in some bewilderment
; ' to go ? Oh, I beg your pardon, I
see ! I'm afraid my train of fancy had led
me off some way from where I began. My
going has nothing to do with that fine renunciation
of philosophy in which I have
must indulged ; it's only likely to turn out a
matter of necessity, and a disagreeable matter,
too.'

You are tired of us all, that's the matter,'
returned the girl petulantly.

'That is it, of course,' he said, with an
easy smile.

And you will never come back ? ;

I shall count the hours until I am here
again,' he replied with sudden vigour.

There was a pause. So calm was the sea
that scarcely any motion was perceptible onboard
the boat ; people walked about, or
leaned over the side, looking at the clear
bottle-green waters. The steward came and
asked for their tickets. Janet Somerville and
Mr. Eose got up and went on the upper deck,
and the seats between Mrs. Winy eat t and
Lucy being empty, Lucy stretched herself
lazily back.

6 Norma,' she said gaily, ' come and be
sociable ! '

Norma shook her head and smiled.

6 By-and-by,' she answered. ' Miss Ellison
and I have a great deal of business to get
through.'

Lawrence, who had leaned forward,
dropped back discontentedly. Lucy glanced
at him.

I want to ask you a question,' she said
quietly, and she managed as she spoke to lay
all her vivacity on one side. ' I want to
ask you a question about  Xorma.'

Well ? ' he said shortly.

1 When you knew her before, when Paul
was alive  you never say much about those
days  but was she the same person that she
is now ? '

George Lawrence hesitated.

In what way ? ' he asked.

Well, was she so much taken up with
good works and things ? You can see for
yourself that she cares for nothing else now; if
she can talk to Miss Ellison  who is the best
creature in the world, though she doesn't
like me  she is perfectly content. You will
find that they are now full swing about the
Coal or the Blanket Club, or something of the
sort, and you see I can't pull Xorma out of
it. Was it the same then ? '

Hardly  in Rome.'

1 All, and that is why I find it so difficult
to conceive of Norma in Rome. I never can
believe that she cared for the things she
found there.'

I should have said she cared more than
most people.'

It is perfectly amazing ! ' exclaimed Lucy
with a little incredulous air. ' She does not
take the smallest interest now. You must
have been mistaken.'

< I think not.'

Then what has changed her ? '

'Might it not have been your brother's
death ? '

Paul's death ? I wonder if that is really
the secret ? But why, I wonder, why should
her mourning for him make her give up
what she cared for before, as if it were
something wrong? It is very morbid of
Norma.'

Yes, it is morbid,' Lawrence assented
gravely.

Of course,' pursued Lucy calmly, ' the
shock was terrible, and for some reason or
other she always blames herself about that
time. I don't know why exactly, but one
can understand that, and one can also understand
that she has resolved never to marry
again, although no doubt it is a great pity.'

She spoke with regret, and as she said
the last word, stooped to pick up a pencil
she had dropped on the side farthest from
Lawrence. It was not a very long business,
yet it seemed to him that a length of time
had passed before she sat upright again, and
then what he said did not sound to him
exactly what he had intended to say.

Women often make those resolutions.'
His voice was steady, but slightly hoarse.

And break them ? I suppose they
do,' said Lucy meditatively. ' Xorma i> very

vol. i. M

resolute, though  I don't know  perhaps I
may be mistaken.'

Something in this readiness to admit error
shook Lawrence more effectually than the
strongest assertions. He pulled himself together
enough to answer  ' Who can tell ?
It's never safe to prognosticate what even
those one knows the best will do, life has such
startling opportunities for upsetting theories ; '
but his heart sank with dismay. He had
been building very comfortably upon his own
theory, which was as hopeful as his nature ;
but he was subject to sudden revulsion, and
these words of Lucy's lie conceived were
uttered in kindly warning. Like other men,
he believed that women confided absolutely
in each other, and who should be so completely
in Mrs. Winyeatt's confidence as the
sister who lived with her? He was staring
moodily before him when Lucy touched his
arm.

1 Here is Calais,' she said timidly.

Lawrence started up.

Why we weren't near it a minute ago, I
vow ! ' he said with a laugh. ; Have those
young people of ours lost themselves ? I
must go and look them up.'

Don't speak too seriously,' said Lucy.

Oh, not I ! I'm not their chaperon. Mrs.
"Winyeatt has charge of all our manners.'

He went off, found the delinquents, and
brought them back with a jest. By this time
the greater part of the encumbered crowd had
struggled up the gangway and were hurrying
off to their trains or the buffet. Lucy and
Xorma had not been able to resist the fascination
of pushing forward with the rest ; they
were now standing waiting on the pier. Lucy
began at once in a low voice 

4 Thank you, Xorma, for managing so
kindly. You gave me a charming opportunity.'


.AT 2

I had no thought of  managing,' said
Norma coldly.

Well, my dear, it was all I wanted ; please
go on in the same way, whatever you like to
call it.'

The other hesitated, looking down and
tracing the black timbers with her foot.

< Did  did your opportunity prove successful,
then? ' she asked indifferently at last.

8 Quite as much as I expected. It enabled
me to say one or two things. I told him,' she
went on with a smile, ' that I did not think
you would ever marry again.'

Why should you discuss me ? ' Norma's
voice had an angry ring in it.

4 Was it wrong ? ' inquired Lucy innocently.
' Don't be angry ; I said I wasn't
sure ; and you see, I tell you at once what
I said, in order that you may repair any
mischief.'

What do you suppose I should do ?

Am I to enter on the subject with Mr.
Lawrence : '

Oh, I could easily say I was mistaken.
Was it a mistake?'

4 Lucy ! ' cried Xorma vehemently. She felt
hot, ashamed, insulted. It was quite true that
she meant never to marry again, but to have
the matter discussed, to have her sister-in-law
calmly answering for her, that it should be
George Lawrence, George Lawrence of all
men, with whom such a conversation had been
held, was surely unbearable. For once, it appeared
as if she were really suffering from over-frankness
on Lucy's part  the knowing what
had been said seemed to inflict a double sting.
She was sure that she wished for Lucy's happiness,
that she would be glad to see her
Lawrence's wife, but the help which had been
extracted from her was palpably unfair, it
was almost indelicate ; it should never have
been said to him, and it should never have

been repeated to her. But she could say no
more, for Miss Ellison and Agnes, who had
wandered away on the pier, rejoined them, and
the three others stepped off the gangway
at the same moment. Janet was beginning
apologies when Norma stopped her.

'Now that we are here, what are we todo
? ' she demanded.

Get out of this, and go to a restaurant
for luncheon,' suggested Lawrence. ' One
can't achieve anything more original in the
high-road of civilisation. Afterwards we can
walk, drive  do what you like. That is
settled. Now let us enjoy ourselves. Mrs.
Winyeatt, let me point out to you these menin
blouses  there is an old house, with a
woman in a white cap looking out from between
green shutters  there's a great splash of
red carnations hanging over a balcony ! Doesn't
everything stir your enthusiasm ? You may
laugh, you others, but Mrs. Winyeatt understands.

She is more sensitive to artistic semitones.'


He was aware that his attempt to breakdown
the barrier which had just reared itself
was almost a burlesque, but he was desperately
indifferent. Some sort of indifference
had also seized Norma, she was unusually
pale, but she also laughed and jested. Between
them they made a sort of comedy for
the others ; not a point in the old gabled picturesque
streets but was caught and brought
forward and made much of. Mr. Lawrence
insisted upon taking them to a cafe, instead
of an hotel ; he conducted them to one where
great pots of oleanders stood outside, and the
little marble-topped tables were shaded by a
large awning. The resources of the little
restaurant were not as ample as the waiter
would have made them believe ; but the
waiter himself made up for any deficiencies,
he was so sincerely interested in their wellbeing,

he threw himself with such zeal into
the question of the dishes !

Lawrence was doing his best to hold
Lucy's words at arm's length, but they caught
undefended moments and pressed upon him
with increasing force. They seemed the
sudden solution of certain withdrawals, on
Norma's part, which every now and then had
hurt him while he had refused to take in
their significance. He had never doubted
that Lucy read his secret  he had not, indeed,
cared to consider it a secret  but that conviction
also led him to believe that what she
said was meant to let him know that there
was no hope for him ; both women, it was
probable, wished to spare him the pain of a
refusal. As yet he had not reached the point
of giving up hope. Something more definite
was required for that ; what he did feel was
that it would be well for him to pause before

putting his fortune to the touch, and that if
he were to do it at once he would probably
be the loser.

As it happened, none of the party had
ever stayed at Calais, or knew more of it than
the little space between the steamer and the
trains, except Lucy, and she had only a
general impression. The young waiter, however,
gave them intelligent directions, which
appeared to be based on an intimate acquaintanceship
with the tastes of each member
of the party, and Miss Ellison wished him
good day with profound respect. She said it
was very remarkable to reflect how impossible
it would be to find his like at so short
a distance as was implied by one hour's
journey.

Xorma had kept obstinately close to her
friend, in spite of Lawrence's endeavours to
draw her away. They wandered through

narrow streets in which the bright sunshine
and the deep shadows made effective pictures,
and the charm of colour stole out in all
manner of unexpected places. At a moment
when Agnes had run on and joined the others,
who were in front, in order to call their attention
to a much-refilled poodle, Miss Ellison
remarked 

My dear, I believe that the other day I
was a fool ! '

When, and why ? '

'When I told you that Mr. Lawrence
liked Lucy. I am by no means so sure of
it now.'

4 Oh, but you were right  you are sure
to have been right,' said Norma feverishly.
'Indeed, I have had more reason to think so
since you spoke.'

What reason ? '

1 Lucy has said something.'

Oh, Lucy ! Lucy would be prepared to

believe that our friend the waiter had lost his
heart to her.'

You are not just to Lucy. She is very
attractive.'

1 On the contrary, I am quite disposed to
admit it, and  to wonder. And so Lucy has
for once chosen to confide in you. I should
like to know why.'

Am I such an unlikely person ? '
'Well, I don't think she often does it.'
Don't ! ' cried Norma imperiously. 'What
does it matter whether she talks to me or
not ? I have told you that if Mr. Lawrence
chooses Lucy for his wife, I shall be
glad.'

1 Well,' repeated Miss Ellison coolly, ' be
glad, by all means. I rather like Mr. Lawrence,
and so I was only trying to put myself
on his side. After all, it is his own concern ;
he must be left to manage his affairs for himself
; and the best thing I can wish him is that

Paul's sister

no officious or quixotic person may be drawn
on to meddle or to mar.'

If Norma took this hint to herself, she
gave no sign.

 R.>V.>v >)>V - >vv>  > > >>v> >>> >. v>.V>>Vvv>Vl. .>.>>   J yf

CHAPTER VI.

Oh, tell me less or tell me more,
Soft eyes with mystery at the core,
That always seem to meet my own
Frankly as pansies fully blown,
Yet waver still twixt ' no ' and 'yes.'

James R. Lowell.

EOEGE Lawrence had no intention
of accepting a second-hand
sentence where so much was concerned,
and lie was resolved to make at any
rate a tentative experiment upon Norma herself.
If lie did no more than this, it was not
pride which held him back ; for though he
might not like rejection better than other men,
he would have faced it without hesitation if he

had believed the moment to have come in
which to put it to the touch. But he had
a fear that Lucy might have been am accredited
agent. He had not a suspicion of any-motive
which might have drawn her further
than she had a right to go ; all that he supposed
was, that, after the fashion of women,
they had talked together, and that Lucy, in
her friendliness, had given him the result of
their talk. It was against him  there was
no doubt of it.

But that did not mean that he should
give up  nothing could be further from his
thoughts. What it did mean, he reflected,
was that if Norma were just now in this
frame of mind, it would be prudent to pause,
not in loving her, for that was impossible, butin
proclaiming his love. Lucy had not exceeded
the truth when she had said that her
sister-in-law was resolute, and Lawrence had
not failed, in his study of Norma, to disinter

the deep feeling of her life  the remorse
which mingled with her memories of Paul ;
even if she loved him, she was a woman
capable of sacrificing her love to that remorse.


He did not know that Lucy had evoked a
more dangerous and less shadowy means of
self-sacrifice. Give him time, he thought, and
he might meet the other, beat it down with
the strong passion of his love, show her the
folly, the wickedness of her resolve, appeal to
her woman's heart not to condemn him to
a life-long misery  oh, the words which should
convince her came rushing to his lips without
hesitation ! But the real obstacle he did not
know.

However, he made up his mind  in the
intervals of such desultory conversation as
was carried on in the streets, where there
were frequent demands to look at this or
that, or to stare into shop windows, the

shabbier the better  he made up his mind
to avoid rashness, and not to frighten Norma
into clinging more desperately to the resolve
which she had apparently just put forward.
Why he imagined that it was only just
announced it is hard to say ; perhaps the idea
fitted tractably with his conviction that she
and Lucy had discussed his suit. But this
did not alter his determination to have it outwith
her to a certain extent.

As every one knows, or should know,
such a determination is the worst preparation
possible for a momentous interview. It hedges
it round with stiffness, and the plunge is a
hundred times more difficult than when it is
faced without premeditation. Norma immediately
became conscious that Lawrence was
on the look-out for an opportunity, and was
on the watch herself to avoid it. All his
little devices struck him as clumsy from the
very fact that they were such absolute failures.

He began to think that he was to be baffled
throughout the day, when by an audacious
stroke he carried out his purpose. Norma
and Miss Ellison had prone into a small
curiosity shop, the others were strolling on,
when Lawrence paused.

I am going to send out Miss Ellison,' he
announced. ' I want to speak to your sister'*
He was not looking at Lucy, and therefore
did not perceive her change of countenance.
But the next moment she recovered herself
Let him ! It was, perhaps, for her, the best
instant that could have been chosen. It maybe
said that she had no thought of the
possibility of Xorma's feelings coinciding with
his, nor did she credit him with much beyond
a passing attraction ; whether this failure of
hers to estimate his attitude was owing to a
wilful blindness, or whether she really found
it impossible to understand that she herself
could be looked at as a secondary personage,
vol. i. X

it is hard to say. Meanwhile she judged
it best to avoid all interference with his
present purpose, whatever it was  even to
assist it.

c Tell Miss Ellison that I have found one
of the baskets she wanted,' she called out.
Norma was in the midst of paying for her
purchase.

You're badly wanted out there, Miss
Ellison,' said Lawrence boldly.

Wait for me a minute,' suggested Norma.

6 It's something pressing,' urged Lawrence
with a laugh ; ' I should only be in the way,
and I'll look after Mrs. Winyeatt.' As Miss
Ellison hurried out of the shop, Mrs. Winyeatt
made an uncertain step to follow, then she
turned back and stood waiting for her purchase.
Lawrence blessed the man for being
slow, and giving the others time to get out of
the way. He left her alone, and sauntered
about the shop, keeping, however, between

her and the door. He was determined that
she should not elude him.

Apparently she gave up any intention
of attempting it, for having received her
little purchase, she came to his side and said
gravely that she was ready. He saw, however,
that when she reached the door she
cast an anxious glance up and down the
street. Xo one was in sight. Still she would
not show any perturbation ; she clung so
effectively to her dignity that he could not
help being amused, in spite of his own troubled
doubts.

Have you any idea in which direction
they are gone ? ' she demanded.

Oh, they cannot be far  shall we try
this street ? '

She silently accepted his decision, if she
had any suspicion of his guidance, showing it
by no more than a refusal to loiter.

4 If they are not to be seen at the next

N -J

turning,' she said, ' we must go back and try
the other.'

Very well,' said Lawrence. ' At the
same time, let me remark that I cannot tell in
what manner I have offended you.'

Offended me ? '

Yes ; you are no longer what you were.
You avoid having anything to say to me, you
won't so much as throw me a crumb. What
have I done? '

Oh,' she faltered, ' this is ridiculous ! '

8 You're not the sort of woman to act so
without a reason, and there lies the sting.
I assure you I've cudgelled my brains, in
vain. I think you owe it to me to tell me
what it is.'

1 1 repeat,' she said impatiently, ' that the
whole idea is absurd  imaginary ! '

He went on as if she had not spoken.

It is not impossible that you may consider
that I have presumed on your kindness by

staying so long in the same place. If so, I
wish you'd tell me. I'd a hundred times
sooner have a good straightforward blow
than feel as uncomfortable as I do now. I
own that I have been very happy, and that
may have made me seem inconsiderate.'

Lawrence did not stay to choose his words,
nor did he in the least care what they might
be held to imply  they might, indeed, imply
all that anybody could find to read in them.

'You have never seemed inconsiderate,'
said Norma in a low voice.

4 Then it is only that you are tired of me?'
returned Lawrence rashly.

To this she made no answer. Her head
was thrown slightly back, and she kept her
eyes fixed straight before her.

'Well,' he went on, piqued, 'that will
soon be remedied. I am going away.'

Are you ? ' she said coldly.

I am. Don't you think I am wise ? '

There was a momentary pause.

6 How can I judge of what is wise for
you ? ' she replied. c If I were a man, I don't
imagine I should have stayed so long. But
I know nothing about the circumstances.'

Of my staying ? Well, I suppose I stayed
because I thought I was well off.'

To this she made no answer, and as he was
bent upon forcing something from her, he
went on  ' Is that what you mean ? '

No,' said Norma indifferently, ' I must
have meant the circumstances of your going.'

6 Oh, well,' he returned more happily,
4 that is just the matter about which I want
to ask your advice '

I can give no advice,' she interrupted.

Why not? ' persisted Lawrence. ' You've
asked me for it before now, why on earth
should I be debarred from benefiting in the
same manner? It's no use, Mrs. Winyeatt.
It's plain enough that you've determined too



give me the cold shoulder, otherwise you'd
certainly listen to what I have to say without
cutting me short at the very beginning.'

He said this in a jesting manner, but there
was an evident purpose hidden under the
jest. Norma quickened her pace a little.

1 We have lost the others, I believe ! ' she
said hurriedly.

Do you refuse to listen P '

6 Refuse P Certainly not. All that I said
was that I could give no advice.'

Hear me first before you decide so absolutely.
My father, as you know, is a clergyman
in Devonshire.'

She bent her head.

'His brother-in-law  his first wife's
brother  is very much with us. I don't
believe I can ever make you understand what
a capital fellow he is  how much liked  and
yet the most incapable, the most idiotic fellow
about money matters ! He has ruined himself,

and is always getting my father into trouble.
A person who didn't know him would find it
very hard to believe that he did it all innocently.'


Norma ventured to slacken her pace. It
did not appear that this relation would contain
anything personal.

4 If he has squandered his own money,'
she said, ' that ought to acquit him of anything
worse than folly.'

Then he can certainly fall back upon that
defence. But you will understand that his
proceedings, however caused, are apt to produce
uneasiness in the family when I tell
you that he has immense influence with my
father.'

6 He is evidently a very attractive man,'
said Norma smiling.

'Oh, exceedingly  more's the pity! It's
that very point which keeps us all in hot
water, and perhaps makes us over-ready to

take alarm. I had a letter from my mother
this morning; ; she doesn't sav much, but I
can read between the lines that she's uncomfortable,
haunted by fears which may
have no foundation whatever. My father
isn't what he was in business matters, and
yet he's awfully obstinate, and won't take
advice.'

Xorma had forgotten her alarm, she
looked at him frankly and fearlessly.

1 I can understand that you must be
anxious,' she said.

Well, I am, and I'm not. Sometimes it
looks a little imposing, but I forget it a good
deal, I assure you  I've other things to think
about, and when you give me the counsel you've
engaged to bestow, don't over-estimate the importance
of all this, for I assure you what I've
not mentioned is of far more consequence in
my eyes. Remember when the question is
put that you have only heard the arguments

on one side, and if you ask me how you're
to judge, you must appeal to your womanly
intuition.'

Norma stopped.

8 1 am sure we are wrong,' she said decidedly.
' We must go back.' Lawrence
turned without a word, but he went on with
his talk.

I must have your advice, remember '

She interrupted him almost vehemently.
'I told you I would give no advice.'
Oh, but after you have understood how
much I require it, how greatly you may assist
me, I feel sure you'll not be so obdurate ! I
really am in grave doubt. My mother seems
to imply that there's mischief brewing, and
she has a ridiculous idea that I might do
something to prevent it. Perhaps I can, but,
honestly, I believe a strong letter to be my
best weapon. You can keep your temper ina
letter '

She broke in quickly 

You ought to go, of course ! How can
you doubt ? '

There was a pause. Then he said in an
altered voice, with a laugh 

'But I do doubt I wish to doubt! I
have no desire to be disposed of in that summary
fashion.'

'Why,' she said, with the same rapidity,
there can be no question about it ! Your father
may be led into most serious imprudences,
just because you're not there to counsel him.
You don't know what mischief your absence
may do ; and when it is too late you will
never forgive yourself.'

'Oh, I assure you that need not be taken
into consideration. It's a process I find
amazingly easy. So you think I should go ?
But, Mrs. Winyeatt, you're forgetting all that
appeal I made to you a minute ago ; you're
looking at my going altogether from one side.

You think only of what I may gain ; I'm
horribly afraid of losing something  something
which I value more, and which a voice
within me tells me I may jeopardise. Don't
you believe in inner voices ? '

Not when they contradict one's duty
said Norma in a low voice.

He appeared to ponder her answer, then 

You're a hard taskmaster. Do you mean
you see no possible hope  good  for me in
staying ? '

None.'

You bid me go ? '

 Yes.'

She did not look at him, and her voice
was hopelessly cold, yet at that moment he
flung prudence to the winds, he felt a desperate
passionate resolve to win her.

4 By Heavens, but you shall say more ! ' he
burst out roughly, and as she turned her white
startled face upon him, he felt an angry shame

and yet triumph in having forced a look at
whatever cost. But he had no opportunity
for another word. From a chemist's shop in
front of them, round the door of which a
little crowd was clustering, Lucy ran out,
evidently to look for them, for the instant
she caught sight of the two she rushed
towards them.

6 I am more thankful to see you than I
can say ! ' she exclaimed. ' Poor Janet has
met with an accident ; we have taken her into
that shop, Mr. Eose has gone for a doctor. I
am afraid she is really hurt.'

4 An accident ! ' Norma asked no questions,
she walked swiftly towards the shop,
through the curious crowd, and vanished.
Lucy was greatly upset, and Lawrence pulled
himself together with an effort.

4 What was it ? What can I do ? ' he
asked.

'I can hardly tell  everything passed so

quickly. We were in that cross street in the
road, Miss Ellison and I in front, and the
others behind. Then we heard a shout and
a cry  it was some boy on a tricycle, and I
suppose poor Janet did not hear him coming,
or he was awkward, for she was knocked
down. It was horrid ! She moaned so when
they carried her into the shop ! '

Can't I be of any use ? ' asked Lawrence
anxiously.

But at this moment appeared Mr. Eose
round a corner, conducting a little man whom
they felt to be the doctor, and escorted by
half a dozen eagerly-gesticulating boys. Janet
had been moved into an inner room ; Lawrence,
Lucy, and Mr. Eose  who was miserably
persuaded that it was all his fault, that
he ought to have kept a better look-out. have
warned her  waited in the shop. Some one
in authority cleared off the crowd, people
came and went on their errands, the lone

pale assistant looked curiously at the English
people, and decided they had no heart, everything
began to seem as if it had been going
on and would go on for ever, when Miss Ellison
came out of the inner room and the three
watchers jumped up. She was quite cheerful,
and the assistant set her down as another
unfeeling Englishwoman.

6 She has broken her arm, poor child ! '
she announced ; ' but it is only a simple fracture,
and has been set very comfortably, so
that we may hope the worst is over. Of
course she can't return with us, and Mrs.
Winyeatt has kindly insisted upon remaining
with her ; the doctor has told us of some
small pleasant lodgings, and perhaps you'll
walk there with me and arrange matters ? '

Lawrence went with them gloomily, because
there was nothing else he could do.
He knew very well that Norma would not see
him again, for, as he thought bitterly, it had

been hard enough to get hold of the opportunity
which this accident had interrupted. Ashe
went, it must be said, he reflected more on
the situation than on poor Janet's arm, and
there were not many crumbs of comfort to be
extracted from his consideration. Norma had
been unmistakably anxious to get rid of him,
it might be said almost feverishly so ; he
realised blankly that Lucy's warning had been
apparently justified, and if he had been
spared the exact position of a rejected man,
there wasn't very much to choose between
them.

With her lips apart,
And all her thoughts as fair within her eyes,
As bottom agates seen to wave and float
In crystal currents of clear morning seas.

Texxtsox.

<!OOR Janet's hurt, however income
lenient, was not of an alarming

nature, and the doctor had no worse
injunctions to lay upon her nurse than to
keep her quiet and not allow her to excite
herself by talking. Finding this to be difficult,
for Janet had a hundred things she
wanted to pour out to her dear Mrs. Win-yeast,
Norma sternly refused to listen, and at

VOL. I.

last left the room for the small one which
opened out of it, and where she could hear a
call if she was wanted.

She was a woman of an active mind, and
seldom allowed herself to remain idle, but
here idleness was forced upon her. The
daughter of the house had undertaken to buy
what was needed for the night, but of occupation
there was none ; she had neither books
nor work, and was driven to sit at the window
with her hands before her, and her thoughts
left to fasten themselves where they would.
She let them go without even a protest ;
it seemed to her that this much liberty
she might at least allow herself, and they
went straight to her conversation with" Lawrence.


What had it all meant? Well, it was
easy enough to answer that question if she
were straightforward with herself, and she
was always straightforward. And it came to

this, that something which had been knocking
tremulously at the door of her heart, and
which she had imagined need advance no
farther, had suddenly presented itself ensconced
safely within. That he loved her,
she had feared before ; that she loved him,
she now knew, and for a few brief delicious
moments exulted in the knowledge, which
filled her with an intoxicating delight. How
manly he had looked, how well she had read
what he wanted to say, what in another
moment he would have said ! How sweet
it was to feel that she had gained not
only his friendship, but his love ! He loved
her.

But if happiness comes sometimes with an
intensity which shows of what we are capable,
it is not often that it lasts longer than is just
sufficient for the peep ; up goes the barrier fora
moment, but the next moment it is down
again, baffling and forbidding, and we besnn

o 2

to beat against it in vain. Norma had had
her moment, her dream, and then there closed
upon her all that had gone before.

It was not Paul's image which stood
between them. It is true that she had never
believed that another could take its place,
but since that was so, her very honesty forbade
a pretence at a constancy which would
only be a false seeming, and she would not
so much as feel ashamed that it should be so.
No. It was not Paul who stood between
them, but Paul's sister. As she sat there
staring out at the green-shuttered houses
opposite, and seeing nothing, a flush of hot
colour crept slowly up to her face, and burnt
there, she found her position so intolerable !
There was no use in protesting her own innocence,
she knew that she was innocent, but
she knew also that Lucy would maintain that
she had acted traitorously towards her. The
more she thought of it, the more she tossed

and turned the matter over, the more persistently
this accusation faced her. She had not
sought her sister-in-law's confidence, that was
true, it had been forced upon her. But this
did not alter the fact that she had received it,
and had listened passively, or that Lucy had
implored her not to interfere. Xot to interfere
! Xorma almost laughed at the perversity
of it all. The way in which Lucy, having no
claim at all, had seemed to establish a prior
claim, was more than clever  it was a stroke
of genius. She knew very well with whom
she had to do.

So well, that Xorma, with the feeling of
some wild animal trapped and tied with cords,
sprang from her chair and began to pace the
little room impatiently, her hands clenched,
her head bent. All through her talk that
afternoon with Lawrence, she had kept Lucy,
as it were, between them ; she had been cold
to him, untrue, as she felt, to herself. Was

she to go on with this farce ? How could
she ? How dared she ?

Lucy's appeal had been made, and effectively
made, to the self-sacrificing impulses of
her sister-in-law's nature ; she had, however, left
out of her calculations another side which persisted
in having something to say, for Norma
possessed a fund of common sense and a sense
of justice, in which it is the fashion to consider
women deficient. She could not but acknowledge
that Lawrence counted for something ;
that it was not possible to give him up to
Lucy when he showed no desire to be resigned.


As this came upon her, she gave a little
laugh, and sat down again by the window,
losing thought of Lucy in dreaming of him.
Presently she heard a call from Janet.

Do you mind coming in ? ' said the girl.
It seems such a waste to have you in the
next room.'

I stayed there because the doctor did
not wish you to excite yourself with talking.'

4 Yes, I know that. I know you were
only doing it out of kindness, but it was a
great deal more exciting to feel that you were
there, and to'wish to have you here.'

c You will have enough of rne,' said Xorma
smiling.

Xo, I can't. If it wasn't so dreadfully
selfish that I'm ashamed to own it, I should
tell you that I can't help rejoicing to have
got you here all to myself. At home
there are always crowds of people wanting
you.'

1 Well, I am very glad to be taken in
the light of a small compensation,' Xorma
answered, drawing a chair to the bed.

I don't think I want any compensation,'
returned Janet contentedly. ' It isn't like a
bad illness, when one would have to be shut
up for ever so long, and see nobody ; it's only

a little pain which nobody need mind. And
it has been such a delightful day ! '

Yes ? ' said the other doubtfully.

I did not know one could be quite so
happy,' said the girl simply.

Norma turned towards her quickly.

'Is there anything particular to make you
feel in that way, Janet ? '

Isn't it wonderful ? ' asked the girl, as if
no direct answer were needed. ' If it had
been Isabel, no one would have been in the
least surprised ; but he says that he has liked
me from the first moment he saw me. I am
sure that I liked him, but it would have been
very odd if I hadn't, and I was never certain
that it wasn't Isabel. She would have made
him a much better wife,' she added falteringly.


Norma bent over her and laid her soft
cheek against Janet's.

'He likes you so much,' said the girl

eagerly ; ' lie quite agrees with me that there's
nobody like you.'

6 1 don't think you should expect him to
go quite so far as that,' said Norma laughing.
Janet looked up at her in surprise.

You don't suppose any one would ever
dream of comparison ? Of course he knows,
we all know that you are first.' She lifted
her head and kissed Norma with enthusiasm.

My dear,' said Norma, laughing again,
4 you are overflowing with goodwill for everybody,
and are ready to whitewash us all.'

'I should like you to be as happy as I
am.'

1 I am very glad you are happy,' said the
elder woman gravely. ' But let me understand
a little. Is Mr. Eose going to speak to
Colonel Somerville ? '

4 Oh, yes, he is in a great hurry, and papa
will be so surprised ! If he thought anything,
he is sure to have thought it was Isabel, and I

think that was perhaps the reason why he
would not allow her to come to-day.'

I hope not,' said Norma startled ; but the
girl went on placidly 

6 Mr. Eose is quite poor, I know, and papa
thinks a great deal about Isabel, she is so
handsome and clever  quite different from
me. It is very wonderful, but it really is
lucky it wasn't Isabel.'

Janet, dear, if he is too poor for her, I
am afraid he must be too poor for you ? '

Oh, I think not, because she and I are
really not in the same position. But we
needn't worry about all that, need we ? It's
more than enough to be so supremely happy
now.'

8 Yes,' said Norma, with a slight catch in
her breath. After a moment she leant over
and kissed the girl again. ' That's quite
enough for to-day.'

More than enough. How strange it is

that it should take such a little time to alter
everything ! I couldn't have believed when
I got up this morning that a few hours
could have brought such a change. Doesn't
it strike you as surprising ? '

Again Norma agreed.

8 And people know so little ! I dare say
they will all be pitying me, and supposing it
to be so very tiresome to have broken one's
arm, when really it does not seem worth
thinking about. I would break a hundred
arms just to have the delight of that moment
again. Does it tease you to listen to me?
I should think it must  at least, it would
tease other people, who would not be so
patient.'

4 Patience comes as we get older,' said
Xorma, smiling faintly. Something in the
expression of her face startled Janet.

But I ought not to have talked to you in
such a way,' she exclaimed quickly ; ' I should

have remembered that it must bring back a
great deal that is painful. I never thought
about it so much before,' she added honestly,
4 but now when I know something of what it
must be to  to lose any one you love so much,
now I do feel how wonderfully good you are
to listen, and throw yourself into this sort of
thing. Isabel was saying only yesterday,
how kind you were to Lucy.'

Kind ? ' asked Norma, drawing herself
back a little coldly.

4 Yes,' said Janet unperceiving. ' You
don't mind my saying it, do you ? Lucy very
often talks to Isabel  I think she thinks Mr.
Lawrence likes her ; at least, she said you
fancied so, and she said you were very kind
about it. But I know I oughtn't to speak of
this. Please don't be vexed.'

After a moment's silence, Norma said
gravely, ' No  it is better not to talk of those
things beforehand. I don't believe any one

can judge. You thought yourself that Mr.
Eose liked Isabel, and suppose  suppose you
had decided not to have anything to do with
him, because Isabel might have been disappointed
? '

Janet gave a sigh. < I don't think I could
have decided that.'

Norma pushed the question. ' If you had
really thought it serious : '

This time the girl looked troubled. ; Do
you mean that I ought to have considered
Isabel more? But she never said  I don't
believe she ever had any fancies about it  it
was only papa and I myself  oh. I hope I
have not done wrong ! '

Norma's hands, which had been nervously
locked together, fell listlessly apart. ' It is I
who have done wrong,' she said, trying to
smile. ' A pretty nurse I have proved myself,
letting you chatter in this manner ! Goto
sleep this very moment, and dream of

your happiness. I shall be in the next room
if you should want anything.'

But Janet detained her.

8 Tell me first that you don't think that I
have been wrong ? '

6 There is not the shadow of such a
thought in my mind  there could not be.
I was only out of curiosity putting the question
of how you would have acted, if things
had been different from what they are ; I don't,
myself think that even then you would have-had
the right to sacrifice Mr. Eose to  to an
idea of others, though if he were at all responsible
for it, it might have been fair to wait
and put his feelings on trial. I am still, you
see, merely talking of an imaginary position.
You have nothing to do with the question.'

All this Xorma said in such a clear and
distinct voice that it might have been supposed
she was delivering a deliberate judgment.
Only in the last words her voice sank

slightly. The girl looked up at her and
smiled.

You have made me perfectly happy
aram,' she said. 'How bright your eves
are ! I wish you knew how very beautiful
your eyes can be ! '

Oh, yes, I have told you already that weare
all transformed just at present," laughed
Xorma. ' But I am not going to be flattered
into allowing you to talk, and I warn you that
unless you are quiet you will have to be shut
up so closely tomorrow., that you will hear
nothing and see nobody.'

'Ah, but even then I can think,' sighed
Janet in full contentment.

Xorma went back to her station in the
other room, with a mind in which the turmoil
was somewhat quieted. It was a judgment
which she had delivered  a judgment on her
own problem. True, that Janet's position
was unlike her own, and the question she had

almost cruelly forced on her had not been
answered in any satisfactory fashion. True,
it was Lucy's confidence, the way in which
other people seemed to take the attachment
for granted, which was now embarrassing her.
But Norma's sense of justice came to her aid.
If all this was based on an imaginary foundation,
the happiness of two lives ought not to
be sacrificed to it.

Still, there was a drawback. Lawrence
mio-ht not have intended to produce a wrong
impression, but somehow or other he had
done so  not only with Lucy but with others.
And perhaps it was that strong impulse to
make atonement which here kept Norma
Winyeatt from yielding to the yearning of
her heart. If  if Lawrence really loved her
and her only, surely a little waiting would
not be too great a trial for him to bear. She
was o-lad, or she tried to tell herself that she
was glad, although she really felt miserable,

to remember that lie was going away, that
she had urged him to go away. This would
necessarily cause a little break. Owing to
Janet's accident, it was improbable that she
would see him before he started, and if he
went off without a word to Lucy, would not
her eyes be opened ? Then Xorma stirred
impatiently. If it had been any one else
the whole affair would have seemed absurd ;
hardly the most scrupulous person could
have been troubled by a girl's mistaken fancy
that she was the object of attraction. But
then, she was not only a girl, she was Paul's
sister, and, oh ! more than ever, Xorma felt
the longing to do something for Paul burn
within her. As his wife she had fallen so
short, had given him so little !  now that an
opportunity offered to efface herself was she
again thinking only of her own happiness ?
Lawrence would have certainly told her that
there was his as well, but as yet he had not
vol. i. P

told her ; the opportunity had been snatched
from him before he could use it, and she had
not the strength of spoken words upon which
to fall back. Her heart was restless and uneasy
; she constantly told herself that what she
wanted was time  time to judge, time to see,
time to balance.

CHAPTER YUI.

Poor silly soul, whose hope and head lies low ;
Hark and beware, lest what you now do measure
And write for sweet, prove a most sour displeasure.

George Herbert.

IE IF so long a word for a small matter
|Hj is permitted, it may be said that
 the four who returned that afternoon
to Dover were in a thorough state of
disintegration. Mr. Prose, who was a fair
young man, and shy, sought solitude, and
reflected desperately upon Janet's sufferings ;
Lawrence was unmistakably irritated ; Lucy
did not care to waste her conversation upon
Miss Ellison, and Miss Ellison felt the greatest
disinclination to talk to Lucy before it

p 2

became necessary, which, as she had promised
Mrs. Winyeatt to go to her house during her
stay at Calais, it must soon be. Even Agnes,
who kept close to Miss Ellison, was disposed
to be tearful, and preferred silence. When
they had landed, Mr. Lawrence partly recovered
himself, and offered to walk home
with Lucy and the little girl, while Miss
Ellison and Mr. Eose went off to the Somerville's,
to tell them what had happened.

I am very sorry,' said Lucy, in a voice as
subdued as if the accident had been one of
her own causing.

Yes. Things have fallen out very unfortunately,'
said Lawrence moodily, and it

must at once be acknowledged that it was

 >

not pity for Janet, but vexation that her misfortunes
should have arrived at such an
inconvenient moment, which produced the
remark.

Poor Janet ! ' said Lucy, still subdued.

1 Poor Mrs. Winyeatt too ! It must be a
horrid nuisance to be shut up in a hole like
that.'

Agnes, who had gone round to Ins side,
slipped her hand softly into his at this
remark.

It teas good of her to stay,' observed
Lucy ; ' I was surprised. Miss Ellison seemed
much more appropriate, and I know she
offered. I wonder Norma did not agree.'

To this he made no answer.

6 Perhaps she will be rewarded, after all.
I don't think it is quite such a hole as you
think, and she gets out of one or two stupid
engagements here, and I am sure she will bethe
better for a holiday from some of her
many good works. I wish you would tell
her when you see her, Mr. Lawrence, that
she really ought not to work so hard. She
will get into a groove from which nothing
will move her.'

I have no influence with Mrs. Winyeatt,
said Lawrence coldly.

1 But indeed you have,' Lucy returned
gravely. ' I know from what she has often
said to me that she values your advice and
judgment very highly '  then, as he looked
gratefully and eagerly at her, she added
softly  ' for Paul's sake.'

He became silent again, then 

That seems to be the only side on which
one can approach Mrs. Winyeatt.'

Yes, it counts for a great deal,' said Lucy
with what he felt to be significance. ' I think
I have told you that before.'

And I doubted.'

Do you still doubt ? '

It's unnatural,' he replied angrily. ' Life
goes on, and new interests might be permitted
to have their place.'

Well,' she said, shrugging her shoulders,
you may believe me or not, but  you will see.'

And she knew very well that he was
already half-convinced.

When they reached the gate of the garden
in front of their house, Lawrence prepared to
take his leave.

1 Aren't you coming in ? ' said Agnes
mournfully. ' It's so horrid without mother
you might just as well.'

1 Ah, Agnes, you and I will have to live
a life of seclusion until Miss Ellison comes
and mounts guard,' said the girl with a
laugh.

1 What shall you do tomorrow ? Shall
you go across in the steamer?' asked Mr.
Lawrence unheeding. Lucy opened her
eyes.

To-morrow ? Oh, no ! I dare say Colonel
Somerville or Isabel will go ; perhaps Isabel
may attempt to persuade Xorma to come back,
though I doubt her succeeding.'

Well,' he said, 'I think I shall run over

by the first boat and see how they're getting
on.' Agnes was swinging open the gate, and
he added in a low voice : ' You think me a
fool, I see.'

No, no,' she returned, with a smile that
was a little forced. ' I only discover that
you are not one to be easily persuaded. But
if you do go, tell Norma not to worry herself
about us, that we shall do perfectly well, and 
I shall send her things across. Oh, I suppose
they will be in the boat with you ? '

6 1 can take charge of them, of course,' he
said with prompt eagerness. 'If you will
allow it, I will drive here tomorrow morning,
and pick them up. Then if there is anything
you want to send which requires careful
handling, I'll undertake it. I dare say she'll
be glad of books and things.'

When he had left them, Lucy walked
slowly into the house, and sat down in her
own room without attempting to take off her

things. Much that she had gone through
that day she had found galling, but with it
all there was mingled a foretaste of coming
triumph. In her dealings with Mr. Lawrence
she had repressed much that she would have
liked to have said, or even hinted ; she was
very anxious that he should regard her as
Xorma's closest, most intimate friend, one
who would be completely in her confidence.
Xo doubt she had succeeded in producing
this impression, and it was not nearly so
difficult with a man as with a woman, who
would have read her as Nomina had. But, as
has been said, it had cost her something.
Sharp things often all but darted forth ; she
would have greatly enjoyed an occasional
stinging remark, and dared not utter it ; and,
above all, it was hateful to her to wait in
passive patience while George Lawrence was
alone with Xorma, as he had been that day,
as he would be tomorrow. Lucy, with her

elbows on the arms of the chair, laced her
white fingers across her forehead, and pondered
with all her might as to whether she could
have followed any other course. 'Norma,'
she thought, ' may after all take an unexpected
line  one is never certain with these impulsive
people. If once he could impress upon
her the sense that he felt himself ill-used, that
he required compensation for something or
other, she would give in  I know she would.
And I cannot imagine a worse position for me
than to lose my home and everything. No, no,
my dear sister, I can't afford it, it's asking too
much ; you must wait until I am married
myself, and then  then I'll help you to the
utmost of my power ; I'll be ever so nice to
you ! And I don't see that I could have clone
better for my purpose. Something must be
risked ; so far he doesn't seem to have been
particularly successful. If lie could have gone
away without seeing her again, the chances

would have been better ; but as it is they are
not bad, and I believe Xorma will justify my
confidence.' She brought herself up with a
laugh.

Neither Miss Ellison nor Agnes had ever
found Lucy so agreeable as she made herself
that evening. She was clever in household
matters, cleverer than Mrs. Winyeatt,
although she hated trouble, and was glad that
other people should take it off her hands. But
she could give orders with excellent effect.

'I ought really to go home and explain
what has to be done,' said Miss Ellison sleepily,
but this chair, and the reading-lamp, and the
last magazine have demoralised me. I shall
stay here.'

Do,' said Lucy eagerly. ' You are a very
early person, and can start as soon as you like
in the morning.'

So I can,' murmured Miss Ellison, on
the very verge of a nap. There just flitted

through her brain the conviction that Lucy
would be late for breakfast the next morning,
and then she fell sound asleep.

But there was no lack of punctuality. At
half-past eight, the hour Miss Ellison loved,
and to which even Norma refused to conform,
here was Lucy, smiling ; here were steaming
coffee, and hot rolls, and brown-bread scones,
and fresh eggs, and all the alluring things
which her visitor could desire. Miss Ellison,
seized with the remorse for the previous
evening which an energetic person feels when
they have idled away an hour, jumped up
when she had breakfasted.

I must go at once ; I have a hundred and
fifty things to arrange, and I suppose you
will be sending off poor dear Norma's box ? '

Yes, I have settled all that.'

Already ? I shall begin to think I have
never done you justice ! ' said Miss Ellison
with a lauffh.

c Ah. I shall make you own it before I've
done with you,' Lucy returned immediately.

4 The box is go ' began Agnes in her

measured voice, but Lucy caught her up.

1 Don't let us keep Miss Ellison ; we will
explain it all by-and-by.'

When the other had gone, Lucy despatched
her niece to the schoolroom, to wait there for
the daily governess ; next she ran upstairs,
moved the flowers about, dragged out photographs,
and hurriedly disposed a few draperies
which she brought from her own room. ' He
shall notice the difference,' she said. Then, as
she heard a carriage drive up, she caught up
a work upon art and seated herself in a low
chair by the window. The whole effect as he
came in was pleasant, and so he felt it.

Sit down, won't you ? ' she said, pointing
to another chair ; ' you have plenty of time.'

1 Yes,' he repeated, a little dully, ' I have
plenty of time. I thought I might venture to

ask your servant to put Mrs. Winyeatt's things
in the fly, and my man will go with them to
the steamer.'

And you will walk ? That is a much
nicer plan.'

I am sorry to say I can't go at all. You
may remember that yesterday I spoke of the
possibility  the probability  of my having to
leave this place ? '

'Yes, indeed I remember,' she returned
earnestly. 'You know that I begged you not
to put an end to  to our pleasant days.'

I know you said that,' he answered with
a touch of bitterness. He was not thinking
of Lucy, but of Norma, whose advice had been

so different. ' I know However, when I

spoke to you, I looked upon it as an open
question, a mere matter of chance. I am
sorry to say it has ceased to be only that ; it
has become a necessity.'

I am very sorry,' said Lucy in a low

-j

voice. If he had looked at her he would have
seen a light in her eyes which was not sorrow.
She added immediately, ' I am half afraid it
may be a disagreeable necessity.'

Only too disagreeable.'

She hesitated. ; There is no use in my
saying anything against it, is there?' she then
demanded. ' You have got your most determined
face on, and would pay no attention at
all to what I might sav.'

4 I am most grateful to you for wishing to
help me,' he returned, bringing his thoughts
back with an effort. ' Out think me pigheaded,
because  well, I have no choice in
the matter ; simply I must go, and at once.'

Do you mean to-day P '

8 Indeed I do : otherwise I could have run
across this morning, as we arranged last
evening, and have just satisfied myself that
Mrs. Winyeatt was well, and in need of
nothing. But I have to be off in an hour.'

She turned away her head. ' That is
dreadfully sudden.'

'Don't make it harder for me,' he said
with a smile, getting up and standing by the
window. ' You can't imagine what a wrench
I feel it to be. However, it is useless to talk
about one's feelings ; they interest no one but
oneself, but I wanted to ask you to say good-bye
to Mrs. Winyeatt for me, and to assure her ' 
he hesitated  ' that I shall not forget the kindness
she has shown to me since that lucky
afternoon when we met on the pier. It teas
a lucky afternoon, I hope ? ' he added with a
laugh.

Oh,' said Lucy cordially, c I think it was
exceedingly lucky. What good times we have
had ever since you came ! And how very
flat we shall be when you are gone ! '

Are you going to send me off in good
spirits, after all ? ' he asked, still laughing.
I wish I could think I should be missed.'

I can answer for myself as to the missing.'

He looked as if he would have preferred
her answering for some one else, but Lucy had
a clever facility for avoiding looks which told
too plainly what she did not want to know.

'Well, good-bye,' he said, stretching out
his hand, ' good-bye ; I trust to you to make
my explanations to Mrs. Winyeatt. I suppose
it would be asking too much, but  it seems a
little hard to hear no more about poor Miss
Somerville or  any one.'

Oh, 111 write ; I'll certainly write,' promised
Lucy.

 Will you ? ' he said gladly ; ' that will be
uncommonly good of you ; and you will
know exactly what I shall want to know.
I'll give you my address this moment.'

He wrote something on a card and save
it to her.

 Marlham,' she remarked, reading it.
Aren't you near King's Ferry ? '

VOL. I. Q

6 Very near. Not four miles away.'

Perhaps I shall see you some day. I've
a friend living there.'

1 That's excellent news,' he said with
warmth. 'It's a part of the country you
ought to know. Pray look up your friend,
and then, either here or there, I hope we
may soon meet again. You'll remember my
message ? '

He was gone without leaving Lucy much
to feed upon, catching Agnes on his way
downstairs, and breaking her heart with the
news of his departure. The child's grief
touched him greatly ; as he thought about it
on his way to London, it seemed the most
comforting reflection that he carried away
with him, for it was certain that Agnes loved
him very dearly, and to be loved by Agnes
seemed to bring him a step nearer to Xorma.

He had to cross London and to catch a
west country express, so that his journey

occupied many hours, and lie had ample time
to bestow upon two subjects which in different
degrees engrossed him. One was
connected with the letter which he had that
morning received, the letter which was
calling him away. It was from his mother,
and he frequently took it out of his pocket,
and referred to it, each time with a growing
uneasiness.

This was what it said :

Dear George,  I do very much wish you
would come at once, for if you don't I am
quite certain your father will do something
outrageously silly ; indeed, I cannot be at all
sure that he hasn't done it already. He looks
thoroughly ashamed of himself; while as for
Tim, he puts on that deprecatory air of general
benevolence which always means that he is
making more of a fool of himself than usual.
If your father would only listen to me ! But,

Q2

as I tell him, he is bent upon taking up his
abode in the poorhouse, and dragging us all
after him. Nelly would trot out the chestnut
mare, against my advice, before she was fit to
leave the stable ; consequently she is ill, and
as Tim is doctoring her, there is every
probability that she will die. I must urge
you once more to come, and come quickly,
and I only hope you may not already be too
late to save something out of the wreck. 
Your affectionate Mother.'

It was difficult to judge whether Mrs.
Lawrence had serious grounds for her alarm,
or whether it had grown out of various
minute failures on the part of her husband to
be guided implicitly by her advice. His son
knew that there were times when he appeared
to be goaded by a sudden impulse into independent
action, when his whole nature
seemed to rise up in rebellion against the

common sense which she directed upon him
like a constant cold douche. It must be
owned that George Lawrence was not unsympathetic
towards these outbreaks ; what
made them dangerous was the presence of
Major Macarthy, a sweet-tempered man whom
every one except Mrs. Lawrence loved, who had
thrown away one or two fortunes in the pursuit
of visionary schemes, without ever losing his
undaunted faith in each fresh idea ; and having
ruined his own fortune, was as desirous as
ever to make that of any one who would listen
to him. Mr. Lawrence listened too readily,
partly from love for Tim, partly from a secret
resemblance in character, and partly from a
burning desire to prove to Mrs. Lawrence
that she was not always in the right. Whenas
generally happened, she triumphantly
proved that she was, it appeared to have no
more useful effect  during these dangerous
times  than to give her husband a yet

stronger impetus to establish the contrary.
He struck out quite wildly on such occasions,
and the only person to restrain him was his
son. Unfortunately, his son was a good
deal away  it might be said was very little
at home. He was fond of the old rectory,
when at a distance from it he was really
very fond, but to live there seemed one
of those sheer impossibilities which he could
not be called upon to undertake  a buried
existence which was not to be contemplated
without a shudder. Just now, too, it appeared
to him to be farther away from everything
than ever ; his thoughts wandered back to the
place he had left, and to Norma, upon whom
they were accustomed to fasten themselves.

Somehow, now that he was away from
her, the very little characteristics at which he
had been disposed to be amused took a certain
tender dignity. He had smiled, at first, as he
noticed the determination with which she kept

under control those impulsive enthusiasms
of hers, which when he first knew her had
threatened to engross her life. That she
should refuse to surround herself with what
she most desired, resist the longing to live
abroad, choose hard yet commonplace work
such as she would once have shrunk from,
surely there was something more in this thana
woman's weakness ? In old days she had
been charming, but charming in spite of
wilfulness and self-pleasing, now  he began
to measure his own life by hers. It had been,
he knew, free from what others would blame,
and he had been a sufficiently good friend and
kind acquaintance to carry hia conscience
comfortably about with him ; but so far as
turning his back upon anything harmless
which he thought likely to conduce to his
ease or pleasure, or depriving himself of a
luxury for which he could honestly pay, the
idea would not have entered his head. He

could appreciate self-sacrifice in the larger
matters of life and death  in martyrdoms or
forlorn hopes, or such like ; self-denial he was
inclined to treat as something morbid or
feminine, and he would have liked gently to
draw Norma out of hers.

But it was the first time in which he had
ever contrasted their lives, and he certainly
could not be sure that his was the most heroic
figure. Looking round upon his first-class
carriage, and all the comforts which he had
taken some pains to enjoy alone  remembering
his man in another carriage, and the many
provisions that he should encounter no inconveniences
which might be avoided  he began
to wonder whether, after all, such padding of
the roughnesses of life might not be even
somewhat despicable. It was not, of course,
that he would not have faced them had they
been inevitable, faced them, or worse, with the
unfailing pluck of his countrymen, but that

he had got into the way of treating himself asa
being to-whom was due whatever good
things life could provide for him ; whether he
should take them or not had not ever been
the question. Xow he began to feel that to
Norma they might look almost absurdly
superfluous ; that she might not improbably
feel contempt for them, and some sensation
of contempt awoke in his own mind with the
thought. He pooh-poohed it, but it returned.
One of his provisions had been to telegraph
his expected arrival, and to desire that the
dog-cart might meet him at the station. It
was not there, and he was turning in his mind
the other approach to his home, which was by
means of the steamer which would presently
go down the river, when he saw the dog-cart
coming at a rapid pace towards him, driven by
a young lady in whom he recognised his sister.
She waved her whip in token of greeting, and
pulled up the cob in very good style.

There ! ' she said, stretching out her hand
without leaving the cart, 4 that wasn't bad,
considering the state of the roads  four miles
in twenty-eight minutes. Uncle Tim offered
to bet a pair of gloves I shouldn't do it in the
half-hour. You can put in your portmanteau,
George, but if you have any more luggage it
must come in the carrier's cart.'

Lawrence had a sudden remembrance that
when he was a boy, and his sister a toddling
little creature of three or four, she used to go
by the name of Miss Masterful. He laughed.

I have got a few other things, and Bailey
shall take them out in a fly.'

Nelly lifted her eyebrows.

'As you like. But the other does just as
well, and costs heaps less. Well, jump in.'

Will you drive ? '

Oh, I always drive,' she answered without
hesitation. And the next minute they were
spinning along towards the town.

t i Ss* > > "t" f '> v t" V"'t" , - / >.*'*''>*" **'-<' v v t"' y xy t -  vet -  v v * '- / > v t" '*"'-' v t "

-' V if if if if if >f if if if if if if if if if if if if iv if if if if if if if if if if if i-">

CHAPTER IX.

What a careless, even deportment bath your borrower !
What contempt for money, accounting it (yours and mine
especially) no better than dross !  Charles Lamb.

ffjE get along, don't we ? ' demanded
Miss Lawrence cheerfully. They
had, indeed, gone down the street
of the old town at a rattling pace, leaving the
Castle behind them, and soon finding themselves
on the level of the river, having reached
which point they bore to the right, and immediately
plunged into such a labyrinth of green
lanes, running up and down in apparent sheer
wantonness of will, as might well have

appeared to a stranger hopeless. Lawrence,
however, had known them from childhood.
He was thoroughly familiar with their tangled
intricacy  knew the warm red of the banks ;
the over-arch of the trees ; the scattered
cottages, thatched, with great chimneys running
up from the ground outside, and a
wealth of flowers in their gardens ; the break
in the hedges from gate or dip, over which
you might look at the beautiful river flowing
down to the sea between heron-haunted
sedges. The familiar points came back to
him with a newer and keener pleasure than
he had expected. He laid his hand on the
reins.

Hold hard, Nell, and give me time to
look round. There's no such tremendous
hurry, is there ? '

I want to be back within the hour,' she
said, slackening the pace reluctantly.  I
know there's more to be got out of the cob

than Uncle Tim admits. You see, since the
chestnut mare's been laid up, I've had to take
to him a good deal, and, I give you my word,
he's a different animal. He just wanted
waking up.'

1 He's had enough of it for to-day,' said
Lawrence coolly, ' and you can do what
you like with him tomorrow. I want to
hear something about home matters. My
mother's letter has brought me down ; she
seems to be afraid that my father may have
rushed again into some unfortunate speculation?'


6 Yes, mother's in a way, but then she's
always in a way about Uncle Tim. I dare say
he is rather wild in his advice, still he's
always got a whole heap of good reasons for
what he does, and he's so jolly and good-tempered.
I know the house seems a
different place when he's here.'

'I suppose you do find it rather slow,'

answered Lawrence, conscious of a small pang
of remorse.

No, I don't.'

What do you do, then ? '

There's heaps to do. Fish and ride, and
coach the boys in cricket.'

'What boys?'

Why the village boys, of course. Some
of them were the most awful duffers, but
Uncle Tim is licking them into shape.'

Lawrence did not look very sympathetic,
and Nelly relapsed into silence, and took off a
fly with her whip.

4 1 suppose there are people  neighbours
about ? ' he said presently.

Well, of course. And you must know
who they are.'

6 Do I ? ' he said, smiling at the severity of
her tone. ' I didn't know but that somebody
new might have turned up, Nell, since I was
here. Yes, I remember the Terres and Humphreys

and Percival and old Miss Cholniley
is there any one else ? What of the King's
Ferry people ? Don't you get any going out ? '

4 Who wants it ? ' returned the girl scornfully.
' I'm not going to their stupid garden
parties, where a lot of women stand about,
looking like '  she turned upon him with a
sudden frank smile which brightened her face
wonderfully  ' you don't know what fools
they look ! '

That isn't a necessary part of the entertainment,
though, is it ? ' he inquired with a
laugh.

I don't see how they can do anything
else. I've tried it.' She spoke with the air
of one who had for ever disposed of the subject,
and the next moment had pulled up the
cob, and was looking eagerly over a gap in the
hedge. The river here, green-grey in colour,
was on the point of making one of its most
beautiful curves, low richly wooded banks

stooped over it, three or four cottages, thatched
and bright with flowers like the others, nestled
close to the water's edge, and rich brown nets
were hanging high to dry.

6 Yes, that's worth looking at,' said
Lawrence.

She glanced at him impatiently. ' What ?
The view ? I didn't stop for that. Do you seethe
salmon boats  a long line close in to the
shore ? I wish I was down there. They've
been having the most splendid catches. One
boat got thirty fish the other day. Wasn't
that something like ? '

'Very good for the fishermen, but I
shouldn't care much about it myself, looked
at as sport.'

4 You must take what you can,' said the
girl gloomily. She whipped up the cob, and
sent him up and down hill at a pace which
allowed no more than rapid glances at the
smiling scenery. Lawrence put further questions

about his father, which she answered
curtly. He was well. He walked about as
usual. He had talked of a curate, but she
was thankful to say had given up the idea.
Uncle Tim had been there some time, had
tamed two robins, which followed him allover
the garden. Had promised to get her a
fox cub. Mother wasn't very strong. The
servants were the same  of course. Then
they came upon two boys carrying a salmon
between them. Nelly pulled up, questioned
them eagerly, and bought the salmon. She
looked at her brother, evidently expecting him
to carry it. He shook his head.

Thank you  no. Stuff it in behind.'

1 And let it knock about ? Xo, indeed.
Jack, gather some grass and leaves in the
hedge, and lay it here at our feet. I suppose
you can see to it ? ' to George.

I'll try. I'll answer for smelling it.
However, it isn't far from home.'

vol. i. E

Uncle Tim would have carried it,'
remarked Nelly promptly.

My stock of virtues is not the same as
his.'

No. I don't think you're likely to be so
nice.'

Won't you allow for a variety in species ? '
asked Lawrence thoughtfully. ' There are
people who don't shine upon you all at once.
I'm one of them ; and you may find me
developing in all sorts of unexpected ways.
Own that it would be dull if I were Uncle
Tim's double.'

To this his sister deigned no reply. The
cottages thickened, and presently the dogcart
climbed a steep street, surmounted by
a church of which the handsome tower had
for some time been visible. Here, at the
loch-gate, the road forked, and taking the
hill to the right, Nelly drove on until she
reached a shrubbery, of which the gate was

posted only half open. She immediately cried
out 

1 That's to delay me ! How wicked of
Uncle Tim ! '

1 Let me get out,' said her brother.

1 No. I can do it  I will do it. Now that
we've lost all that time it doesn't really matter,
but I'm not going to let him think he has
succeeded. Quiet, old man ! There isn't
much room to spare. Through, without a
touch ! ' she cried triumphantly. ' Xot bad,
was it ? '

She was too much absorbed in her own
glee to require the congratulations she asked
for, and Lawrence was not much disposed to
bestow them. They drove through a short
shrubbery towards the side of a low house,
built of grey stone, without more adornment
than that which freely bestowed itself in the
form of climbing plants. These, clambering
about it with the generous growth of many

years, redeemed it from the absolute ugliness
which the square windows and dingy colouring
would otherwise have offered to the eye.
The beds in the grass-plot in front, though
not very carefully trimmed, were brilliant in
colouring, and in the gentleman who came
towards them, with a long hoe in his hands,
George Lawrence, though he had not seen him
for many years, had no difficulty in recognising
Major Macarthy. He was tall, slender,
slightly stooping and high shouldered, with
light hair and blue eyes, and, what immediately
struck his nephew as something which
he remembered impressing him in old days,
when his impressions were less apt to clothe
themselves in definite words  the gayest smile
he had ever seen on a man's face. To have
kept such a smile through the wear and tear
of life seemed almost miraculous.

He will ruin us all, if he does it, with the
sweetest nature in the world,' said Lawrence

to himself as he found himself standing before
Major Macarthy, and greeted with a warmth
which was unmistakably genuine.

8 I began to think I was never to see you
again, my dear boy ! '  wringing his hands.
8 It's lucky indeed that I hadn't taken myself
off last week, and so lost this look of you.
Your mother's got a cold, I'm sorry to say, but
the parson's about somewhere. Henry ! Hi !
Henry !  never mind, he'll be round in a
minute, he's sure to be on the look out, for
according to Xell, she was to have brought
you here ten minutes ago. Just ten minutes,
Nell. Come, out with the gloves ! '

8 I didn't bet, as you know very well, and
I should have been here a quarter of an hour
ago  yes, in spite of your gate. I drove in, all
the same ! '

8 You didn't ! '

8 1 did. Go and look ; it hasn't been
moved a quarter of an inch.'

8 Honour bright ? '

Honour bright. Ask George.'

Upon my soul that's pretty driving, and
I'll forgive you the gloves this time.'

As I tell you, I should have been up to
time, only George would make me slacken the
pace. He wanted to stare over every stile,'
cried the girl impatiently.

'Well, take your wonderful beast round.
As I've told you already, you're forgiven.
And if you see your father, let him know
that George is here.'

My mother has a cold, you say ? I'll go
and find her,' said Lawrence, running up the
two or three steps to the front door.

In the study,' the major called after him.
4 I'll hunt up your father.'

Mrs. Lawrence, a thin woman, with a
sensible face and an anxious expression,
turned from the window as her son came in.

I heard the wheels, but I knew your

uncle would get hold of you the first. I only
wonder you got away. My dear boy, I arn
so thankful you have come ! '

1 suspect I ought to have come before.'

1 Well, you were wanted, but of course
you could not be expected to bury yourself
in these solitudes. There are plenty of other
things for you to do ;

He stopped her with a gesture.

I have come to the conclusion that my
principal aim in life has been my own entertainment.
There really was no reason why I
should not have been here.'

His mother made no attempt to disprove
this assertion. She had kissed him, and was
now sitting in a round oak chair which stood
before her husband's writing-table. She was
looking down, and the side light striking
through a western window accentuated the
fine network of lines which seemed to have
taken possession of her pale face.

4 1 have been very uneasy,' she said.

So I gathered. Still I can't think my
father would have done anything prodigiously
rash against your expressed wishes.'

You don't know, you don't know ! When
those two put their heads together, there's no
folly they'll not commit. The sight of your
uncle makes me shiver.'

6 And yet all the mischief he does is done
with the utmost innocence of heart, with the
good intentions of a delightful child,' Lawrence
hazarded.

Don't I know it ? ' said Mrs. Lawrence
bitterly. ' Don't I know too well the sort of
irresponsible way which people find charming
? There isn't a person in the house who
isn't ready to adore him. I stand absolutely
alone. Nelly  Nelly is a sensible girl, though
too independent, too much bent upon being
unconventional. Well, I assure you, that if I
were to tell Nelly tomorrow morning that we

were ruined, and that through her uncle's instrumentality,
all she would say would beu
Poor Uncle Tim ! I do hope hell never hear
of it." Xo one ever blames him. We all
suffer, but no one blames him.*

4 He suffers himself, though ' began

Lawrence, but his mother interrupted him.

1 He has lost his own money through his
insane love for speculation, and now his great
delight is to play with other people's. That
does just as well. Oh, it's madness, of course,'
she exclaimed impatiently, 'but it seems tome
that madness is just as dangerous as
wickedness.'

1 For other people I don't know but what
it is,' agreed her son, ' only it offers a saving
clause for one's own soul. Do you mean to
say that my father is swept away by this
benevolent whirlwind F '

Your father is so obstinate, he will never
allow that he can be in the wronsr. I talk

and talk  I may as well talk to a stone wall.
Your father is a perfect baby in money
matters. If I didn't keep the accounts, what
state do you think the parish would be in?
You must insist upon taking matters into your
own hands.'

How am I to do that if he will not allow
that he has made a mistake ?'

Oh, you must insist,' repeated Mrs. Lawrence
with ready inconsequence. 'I am sure
I don't know, but I suppose he will allow that
his only son should have something to say
to the matter. I am truly thankful, George,
that you have money of your own ; we may
all live to be thankful for it.'

Yes, it's a mercy I haven't a passion for
playing with ducks and drakes.'

4 You've had travel and outlets for your energies,
while your father stays here from year's
end to year's end. A man requires some sort
of excitement in his life,' said Mrs. Lawrence,

quick to defend. But her son was not listening.


4 Do you think anything has actually been
done P ' he asked.

4 1 am afraid so. I can't get the money
that is wanted, and your father keeps on complaining
about bad times. Of course the
fields let badly, but that wouldn't be enough
to affect our living.'

'And what do you suspect has happened
? '

Her fingers played nervously on the arm
of her chair.

4 1 am kept in ignorance. Your father
knows that I detest speculation ; indeed I think
for a poor man it is positively wicked. But
I greatly fear that, at your uncle's instigation,
he has removed a large sum of money which
was invested in Queensland bonds, and has
flung it into some harbour works. I remember,
when your uncle was here six months

ago, lie was raving about the advantages of
this harbour. It was to swallow up all the
trade in England, I know.' She added scornfully,
' I don't doubt its capacities for swallowing.'


'Not the Stenson harbour, was it?'

'Yes. That was the name. Is it very
bad?'

Lawrence was silent. ' I don't know much
about it,' he said at last.

You know enough, anyway,' said his
mother, who had been eyeing him. ' However,
I've never had any actual doubt. What we
have to light now is against more being flung
after this.'

I should think my father would have had
enough for one year,' said the young man
gravely.

Ah, you don't know your uncle,' she returned
; ' he has never had enough ; loss and
failure have no more effect upon him than '

'Hilliho! Where's George? George!
Here you are, my boy ! Glad you're come at
last ; your mother's been fretting after you.
I told her you were safe to turn up by-and-bv,
but she's got a way of fussing herself  doesn't
take life easy, I tell her. Well, and how are
you ? '

Mr. Lawrence was middle-sized, neither
tall nor short, neither stout nor thin, with a
complexion which was like one of the apples
of his orchard, bushy eyebrows, and a square
chin. His son thought there was something
of nervousness in his greeting ; but if this were
so, he tried to carry it off by a very good representation
of cheerfulness, and as for Major
Macarthy, it was impossible to conceive that
he bore about a guilty conscience. He was
more like a mischievous, good-tempered, overgrown
boy than ever, ready to play with and
tease Nelly, equally ready to jump up and
there and then proceed to mend the blind,

which by some disarrangement was allowing
the sun to pour in upon Mrs. Lawrence's head,
and evidently unaware that she did not even
thank him. She had, indeed, relapsed into
silence when the others came in, leaning
back in her chair with an air of weariness,
and taking no part in the different remarks
which were cheerfully poured forth. George
Lawrence, after his father's first hearty greeting,
found himself very much in the position
of an outsider. It did not appear to him that
he offered them any element of interest ; if he
had stepped in from the next parish there
mio-ht have been much to sav, but no one was
apparently curious as to his larger movements,
and no one even alluded to them, so when his
father had said 

'You seem to have been running about
pretty well these last two years, George. Glad
to get back into civilised parts, I should say ? '
and he had replied 

Glad at any rate to see you all again, sir
his travels received no more attention.

Nelly, who was dark, with well-formed
features, and who was dressed in a tight dark
serge dress, and a small felt hat, had gone to
the window, and leaned out of it with her
elbows on the sill.

Much good you have done to that bed,
Uncle Tim,' she scoffed. ' The idea of transplanting
things at this time of year ! '

You'll see ! You couldn't do it, of course,
any more than you could get nine miles an
hour out of that old cob, but I've got an idea
or two about it. It's worth the experiment.
Where have you been, Henry ? I hunted all
about the place, until Polly Medland told me
she believed you were gone down to the shore.
By the way, Polly in her pink sun-bonnet is a
picture, and I believe M would be uncommonly
glad to come down and paint her.
Shall I ask Harvey? Harvey would settle

it all. But where have you been ?  and, by
the way, have you seen Simcox? Poor old
Simcox, I promised I'd say a word for him.'

So he told me, but, upon my word, I
believe he could pay that rent.'

No, I don't think he can. He went into
it very fully with me, and you see, with hard
times, and such ill luck with his cows, he's ina
bad way, poor fellow ! '

Mrs. Lawrence sat upright in her chair.

1 And pray is Simcox's rent to be lowered ? '

I don't know, my dear ; I don't know,'
said the rector testily. ' You hear what Tim
says, but I have not yet decided.'

Simcox,' said his wife steadily, ' is a man
who has always grumbled, always demanded
reductions, and always shown the greatest
anxiety to remain your tenant, because he
knows you to be the easiest landlord in the
county. No one else would so much as listen
to his complaints. Tim judges, as usual,

without knowing any of the facts of the case,
and if our reduced income is to have further
claims made upon it, I think, Mr. Lawrence,
that the proper person from whom to take
advice is your own son.'

6 So do I, so do I,' said the major heartily.
1 You're quite right, Fanny, quite right.
Simcox shall go over his grievances with
George, but I'm certain you'll find George
will think as I do. I wish I could see it in
any other light, for Henry's sake, but I can't.
I told Simcox so.'

6 That you did,' said the rector, so ruefully
that his son suspected he had given way further
than he was willing to allow.

If you would only take advice ! ' continued
his wife despairingly. He immediately faced
round upon her.

Kindly allow me to think that I know
something of my own affairs, my dear Fanny.
I do not, I hope, meddle with your maids or

vol. i. S

your orders, but I do consider that in the
matter of letting land my experience and
judgment may be of slightly more value than
your own, or even than that of George, who,
I should say, had given himself very little
opportunity indeed to become acquainted with
useful matters. I may be wrong, of course,
but that is my opinion.'

Mrs. Lawrence leaned back wearily, George
smiled.

4 1 expect my mother goes upon the old
proverb that two heads are better than
one.'

1 That depends upon the heads,' remarked
his father, still irately.

George has a capital head,' put in the
major simply. ' Perhaps you and I, Henry,
are not such good men of business as we fancy ;
at least I am sure I am not, and there are
several things I should be glad to talk over with
George. Fanny is right.'

Every one is right, it seems, except arne,'
grumbled the rector.

His brother-in-law had taken a case out of
his pocket, and was putting the final touches
to a fly with a woman's delicacy and deft-mindedness.


What did Jefferies say about his horse ? '
he asked.

I Said he was all the better for the blister.'

I I should think he was glad that he listened
to you, and not to Brown.'

I should think he was,' said Mr. Lawrence,
clearing up with a laugh. ' Brown is an old
donkey. What was it he wanted to do, Tim ? '

4 Here is Jefferies, coming up the drive,'
said Nelly, without turning her head.

I'll go and see him,' said her father,
bustling out. ' George, you know your room 
the one you always have. Nelly, you'd better
see that your brother has all he wants. I can't
tell what he may be accustomed tos

2

1 1 don't either. Uncle Tim has been up,'
returned the girl, strolling over to watch the
fly-making. ' I say, that is a beauty ! Do
let me see how you do it.'

If no one else will go, I will,' said Mrs.
Lawrence, getting up from her chair and
coughing.

6 My dear Fanny ! ' cried her brother-in-law,
jumping up and cramming his fly into
the case, and the case into his pocket ; ' what
are you dreaming about ! We are all going.
No, George, you needn't protest. Nelly is
really dying to go, only she has been a little
put out by that failure of the cob, and doesn't
quite know where to vent her displeasure
Your mother will stay here and rest ; and the
women have by this time got over staring at
your man, and haven't yet begun to quarrel
about him. How could you venture to bring
him into such a feminine household ? Though
he looks a good sort of fellow.'

What on earth do you want him for ? '
added his sister, as they went upstairs.

Lawrence was not very well pleased with
the question, yet it forced itself upon him
when he was alone that night. Here was
certainly padding, and padding which appeared
incongruous in the somewhat rough
atmosphere of the rectory. The roughness
was not agreeable, but the amelioration was
so much out of place, and so entirely personal,
that he felt ashamed of it. His mother had
no maid, it was impossible for her son to
require a man. Bailey should not be dismissed,
but sent to his own home the very next day ;
and he must make up his mind to discomforts,
both physical and moral, for it was evident
that there was much daily bickering in the
rectory. Bickering, it is to be presumed, is
enjoyed by certain people, but to those who
are not of the number it is an undignified and
detestable thing. Then his thoughts travelled

back to those lie had left, to Lucy's kindly
sympathy, to Norma's fair and noble face,
which spoke of a character free from such
pettinesses as at this moment were vexing him.
She would pull up any man,' he said, l any
man whom she loved.' She seemed far above
him, and with the conviction there came an
overwhelming weight of doubt whether he
would ever be the man she loved.

:-*-

\/yvuvv\/v u vvvvvvvvNAnAA <VB

IglSgSSMrr

CHAPTER X.

To all these, his nearest and most dear,
It was no matter. And he heard them talk
Of timber felled, of certain fruitful fields
And profitable markets.  Jean Angelo.

Hope is not the man for your banker, though he may do for
your travelling companion.  Halibitrtox.

5gwg;HEX a man has passed the age of
thirty, lias been for some years
 practically his own master, and has
knocked about the world until he flatters
himself that his angles have been rubbed off,
so that wherever he found himself lie would
have little difficulty in adapting himself to his
circumstances, the place where in all probability
that adaptation will be least successful
is his home. It is not as yet sufficiently

removed by time to allow the full force of the
great tie of blood to make itself felt, still less
the more subtle but scarcely less strong
charm of association. He may be welcomed
with warm affection, but old familiarity immediately
asserts itself; there are those who
admire, others who criticise with that want of
reticence which goes by the name of speaking
one's mind. There are relations who consider
this their charter ; and the roughnesses of a life
of travel are infinitely less disturbing than the
pitiless exposure of weak points which society
has obligingly curtained.

In some such situation George Lawrence
found himself. He was an excellent fellow,
honest-hearted and kindly, with no more,
perhaps, than his inevitable share of vanity.
He had come home when to come cost him
no slight sacrifice, urged thereto by a remorseful
consciousness that for want of him
his father had stumbled into many foolishness

with regard to money matters, from which 
although, happily for himself, he was not
greatly affected by their probable disastrous
results  his father himself, his mother and his
sister, who should have been protected by his
foresight, were likely to suffer very severely.
In his world, which embraced a considerable
area, he was of some importance ; his judgment
was held as sound, his advice was consequently
not only often asked, which is
nothing, but occasionally taken, which is very
rare. He had had a large experience, and
though at times blunt, was not cynical ; without
the disposition to argue, which indeed
bored him, his opinions were incisively logical
and carried unusual weight.

A man cannot possess these qualities, these
gifts  call them what you will  and remain
unconscious that he possesses them. He may
rate them moderately, but he knows well
enough that they are his, and that they are

valued by those about him. He becomes
accustomed to the conviction  which may by
no means unduly exalt him  that he fills a
certain position in his world ; and the habit
of being deferred to as well as referred to,
leads him to expect it, however unconsciously.
But here, in this simple parsonage, among his
own people, George Lawrence was at once
confronted with the conviction that he was
regarded as a nonentity. His mother, it is
true, was anxious, feverishly anxious, that he
should counsel his father, but it was simply
to be as her mouthpiece. Her opinions,
through much iteration, had lost what
power of impression they might once have
possessed ; they now only served to irritate,
and she had a hope that, disguised in a new
and masculine form, they might gain fresh
force. And with her seemed to end all desire
to hear what he had to say. His father
received him  George laughed as he acknowledged

it  as a young fellow whose ideas were
necessarily crude, and whose experiences were
as nothing compared to his own. Uncle Tim
seemed to expect in him a playfellow ; he
treated him as one boy at home for the
holidays would treat another who had come
to stay with him. At another season of the
year he had the conviction that he would
have been invited to go out bird-nesting. As
for Nelly, her estimate of his powers was
unmistakably low ; he did not rank with heron
anything like the same level as her uncle,
and evidently she considered him inferior in
mental as well as physical capacities.

Further than this. They had seen little of
him for years, and might need time to reconstruct
their notions and to dismiss from their
minds the idea of an unfledged youth. What
more astonished George was the total absence
of interest in his travels, which had been unusually
extensive. Xo one seemed to care to

hear, much less to question him. A casual
mention of places which few have seen
brought no response, when something which
had been noticed within a quarter of a mile of
the rectory afforded food for remark for a
whole evening. It might have been supposed
that their minds refused to move outside a
certain radius. Beyond this nothing appeared
to interest them.

At the end of a few days he had not
gained any information from his father. Mr.
Lawrence showed, indeed, an extraordinary ingenuity
in evading private conversation with
his son, and this ingenuity looked too like
a guilty conscience not to add to George's
uneasiness. He had wished to avoid forcing
an explanation from his father ; it would have
been more seemly and less embarrassing if the
rector would have turned to him in confidence,
and opened upon the subject of his difficulties.
Since he would not do this, his son felt that

it was necessary to press the matter, and to
come to some definite understanding, if only
for his mother's sake. She, indeed, was indignant
with him for having paused so long.

Unless I know where we stand, and exactly
how much there is left to live upon, I
believe I shall go mad,' she said one day.

She was sitting in a wicker chair in the
garden when she said this, and George,
stretched on a ru? on the turf, was leaning on
his elbow, smoking a cigarette, and idly prodding
at a daisy root.

6 You feel certain that the thing is done ? '
he remarked.

c Absolutely certain. Do you think I don't
know your father ? He is dreadfully ashamed
of himself, and will not own it  he will never
own it.'

I wonder he can keep it from you.'

'He can, because of his extreme obstinacy.
He is quite aware of the folly he has committed,

and he knows that I warned him
against it with all my strength. I suppose
that if I had said less, my words might have
had a better effect,' she added bitterly, her thin
fingers working on the arms of the chair.

This was so plain to George's mind that
he could say nothing against it.

I do think that my father is like other men,
better led than driven,' he answered quietly.

You need not tell me that,' she retorted.
If I could bring ni T self to flatter his vanity,
to appeal to his weak points, as your uncle
does '

Not consciously,' interrupted Lawrence.

4 Well, unconsciously, then. The effect is
the same. If I could do this, I suppose I
might influence him. But I couldn't. With
me, at any rate, it would be conscious  conscious
humbug. I can't lose my self-respect,
even to keep our fortune. I am obliged to
tell him the truth, and he does not like it ; and

then  I believe he really runs into these hateful
speculations with the hope of getting a
triumph over me. It is not the desire of gaining
money ; no one in the world ever cared
less about money than your father. He is a
perfect baby on the subject. It is that he is
so anxious to prove himself for once in the
right. However, never mind the why ; the
question is whether anything can be done.'

I intend to have it out to-day, but my
father has a wonderful knack of avoiding unpleasant
subjects,' Lawrence said with a laugh.

4 He has never had strength to face the
disagreeable. He always leaves it for others.
But you must show him that you will not be
put off, you must insist upon a clear statement,
and you must urge upon him the folly,
the inconceivable folly, of allowing your uncle
to be his adviser.'

She was very much agitated, and her son
was too well convinced of the justness of her

misgivings to be able to treat them as unreasonable.
But he tried to comfort her.

8 It may not be so bad as you think '

That is what you must find out.'
'Yes, I will find out. But what I was
going to say was that, anyhow, we must take
care that you are not deprived of any comforts.'


1 My comforts ! Do you think I care for
them ? I could live in a cottage, and ask for
nothing better. I don't fear poverty ; what I
dread is committing the horrible injustice to
others of running into debt, a thing from
which I have kept myself clear all my life.
Your uncle cares nothing about it ; he will
come, and bring me presents  this, that, and
the other, for which he has never paid, never
will pay. Can't you conceive what it is to me
to have this done ? '

We must stop it,' said Lawrence gravely.
Yes, when you can stop the tide. By-and-by

these debts will grow into size, and
then your father will feel the disgrace dreadfully.
He will feel it all,' she added, leaning
back in her chair, and staring into vacancy,
most of all the knowledge that Xelly's money
has been squandered. You talk of me, George.
Don't, don't think about me. My life will not
be long, and I am thoroughly convinced that
I shall not survive your father. I have never
known the least fear of being poor, and the
comforts you speak of I could part with tomorrow.
But with your father it is different.'
She paused, and George was silent. His
thoughts had indeed leaped away to another
place and another woman, and he brought
them back with an effort. He was beginning,

'Well, mother ' when a clear, light-hearted

whistle broke upon his ears, and the next
moment Major Macarthy came briskly across
the grass, carrying a paper bag in his hand.
4 Oh. I say, George, you are the laziest
vol. i. T

fellow I ever came across ! There's no getting
you out of the place. Nelly and I rowed
down to King's Ferry and back, and a pretty
fever she got herself into, because coming
home she would take both oars. You've no
idea, though, how she can pull ! I wish we
could get you down to the river, Fanny. It
would do you all the good in the world, and
I believe I could manage it too ; you and I,
George, could rig up some sort of chair  oh,
we could, and it wouldn't be a bit of trouble.'

4 1 prefer the garden,' said Mrs. Lawrence
quickly.

Yes, you say that just because you fancy
it would be a bother, whereas, now I come to
think of it, it would be the easiest thing in the
world. Here, Nelly  never mind the blisters
on your hands ; I'll give you something to set
them to rights  just tell me why we've all
been such idiots as not to think of having
your mother carried down to the boat ? Of

course, it would be new life to her. I'll go
round to the carpenter at once.'

Tim, I insist upon your doing nothing of
the sort.'

Now, Fanny, upon my soul it would be
no trouble ! Just a chair with a couple of
poles fastened to it  the simplest thing !
John Jefferies would turn it out in no time 
eh, Nelly?'

You won't get George to carry it.'
Why not ? '

Ask him. Because he would think it
derogatory.'

i Nonsense, Nelly, nonsense ! She doesn't
mean it, George. She has a very good heart,
but a tongue which runs away with her now
and then.'

He appeared genuinely distressed, and
relieved when his nephew laughed. No
one could look at George Lawrence, and feel
that he was a man likely to stand sluggishly

T 2

on his dignity, so that Nelly's remark carried
no sting, though it might have some rudeness
in its brusquerie. Her brother judged rightly,
however, that she conscientiously believed in
the virtues of rudeness, not having as yet
learned to distinguish between that and the
perfect frankness which she placed before
herself as an ideal. George looked at her
critically as she stood in the flickering sunshine
under the beech-tree, and saw that her
features were handsome, though the face, like
his own, was square. Her figure was strong,
not graceful, but in no wise clumsy. Her
Dress was extremely plain, and disdainfully
devoid of adornment. Altogether she would
probably prove attractive to few persons, but,
where she cared, might show herself in the
light of a devoted friend, as true as steel, and
almost inconveniently affectionate.

You don't really mean, Fanny, that you
wouldn't use the chair, if T got Referees to

make it?' demanded Major Macartliy anxiously.
' "Wouldn't you just try it ? '

I would not try it on any account,' said
Mrs. Lawrence with serious decision. ' You
seem to forget that all these things cost
money, and it appears to me that we are very
much pressed for money at present.'

She said this very slowly, without glancing
at her brother-in-law. She was so much more
sensitive than her daughter that it was positive
pain to her to utter a truth which she
felt to be full of reproach, and she could not
do it indifferently, nor without a severe intention
that it should reach home. Major
Macartliy, however, only nodded and smiled.

6 We are, aren't we ? Tight times,' he responded,
' tight times, George ! But Jefferies
is a capital fellow, never presses for money ;
knows I'd do the same for him any day

He knows what you did for his old
father,' put in Nelly, clasping both hands

round her uncle's arm. He stared in undisguised
amazement.

'What on earth did I do? Oh that!'
raising his eyebrows. ' Wrote half a dozen
letters, and spent sixpence on postage! I'd
do more than that for him any day. Oh,
look here, Fanny, what a fool I am ! I've
never given you these grapes. I got them
at King's Ferry. Bartlett said they were a
particularly fine lot, and I knew they were
the best things in the world for your
cough.'

Mrs. Lawrence almost groaned.

Thank you,' said George, stretching out
his hand. ' Now that I am here you must
let me undertake these sort of things for my
mother. What did you pay for them ? '

I don't think I did pay,' returned the
major cheerily. ' Did I, Nell ? Oh, by the
way, you weren't there. No, I remember, I
had nothing in my pocket. Bartlett said it

could wait, and it would have been a pity tolet
such fine grapes slip. I knew you'd
have pitched into fine, Fanny, if I had
brought you peaches. Your mother thinks
me extravagant,' he went on, addressing
Lawrence with a laugh. ' Upon my soul, I'm
not, I've the simplest tastes in the world, and '
here he looked down upon himself, and
laughed more heartily  ; my worst foe, bless
him, couldn't accuse me of making my tailor's
fortune ! '

Mrs. Lawrence laid her thin hand hastily
upon her son's arm.

George, your father is just turning into
the house.'

4 Henry ? ' cried the major eagerly ; ' oh,
I must talk to him about getting the postoffice
made bigger! It's the most shortsighted
folly in the world, it's '

He was rushing off, when Lawrence, who
had risen to his feet, held him back.

4 Wait a bit,' he said. 'I want a word
with my father, and I'm going to take it
now.'

All right ! ' exclaimed the major. ' Come
out here afterwards, and I'll show you the
post-office ; and see if you don't agree with
me. These people are the most awful 
! They haven't an idea of progression,
of intelligent expansion ; they're
content to go on just as their forefathers
lived  lived ? Pigged is the better word '

George Lawrence glanced with some
anxiety at his mother, who was leaning back
wearily in her chair, but she signed to him to
leave her, and he walked off, with the major's
cheerful anathemas becoming more and more
vigorous. On the steps of the house he met
his father, whose face changed on seeing him
alone.

Coming in, my boy ? ' he said loudly.
6 Well, you're lucky, you've time to go where

you like and do what you like. Here am I,
no sooner in than out.'

Anything wrong ? '

Xo, not wrong, only the usual grind.
See you again by-and-by.'

But his son held his ground.

I must ask you to give me half an hour
first,' he said. ' I would go with you, but
that I am anxious to speak on business
matters without interruption. Shall we go
into the study P '

Mr. Lawrence made one feeble protest 

6 Another time, George, another time.
I haven't a spare moment now, I assure
you '

George Lawrence had a stubborn look on
his face, which his father had not seen there
before, but he said very quietly 

I think we had better run through this
matter first.'

The rector resigned himself with a sigh,

only retorting pettishly as be sat down in an
old leathern arm-chair 

8 Oh, by all means, by all means ; though
I can't conceive what there is to talk about !
Your aunt provided for you, at all events.'

There was a good deal implied in this
answer, as his son perceived.

8 Yes, she did,' he assented ; 8 but my
mother wants to know how things stand, and
I am sure, my clear father, you will see the
reasonableness of her wish.'

8 A woman can't understand, and your
mother is a very prejudiced woman,' muttered
Mr. Lawrence uneasily. 8 She has the
most absurd prejudices against your uncle.'

8 Well, I haven't. I think him a delightful
being,' returned the younger man, with a
laugh. 8 Whether he is a good business man
is another matter. Do you consider him so ? '

8 He may make mistakes,' replied the rector,
with an air of generous admission ; 8 we are

all, I presume, liable to make mistakes, even
you, George, though I dare say you consider
yourself a very smart young fellow.'

4 Heaven forbid, sir ! My estimate of myself
is far more modest.'

4 Glad to hear it  glad to hear it,' chuckled
his father, pleased with having made what at
any rate looked like a point. 4 To tell you
the truth, you haven't done any thing very
great since you've been about in the world.
Boiling stones  eh, George? Better have
stuck to your own country.'

Perhaps,' said his son good-humouredly.
4 But to come back to these money matters.
Hy mother fears '

4 1 tell you your mother knows nothing
about it,' broke out Mr. Lawrence irritably,
getting up from his chair, and marching up
and down the room.

4 1 don't think she will rest until she does
know something, and in her state of health '

8 Her state of health ? She isn't worse ?
You don't perceive cause for anxiety ? ' said his
father, stopping before him, and pouring out
his questions anxiously.

8 1 hope not. I don't know of anything
special ; but any one must see that
she is blessed, or cursed, with a highly
nervous organisation. Anxiety tells more
on such natures than any definite misfortune.'


8 She will fret herself to fiddle-strings over
a trifle,' growled Mr. Lawrence, irritable again,
and resuming his march. 8 Well, what do you
want to know ? '

8 About those Queensland bonds. Have
you parted with them ? '

4 Yes, I have. And I suppose, being, so far
as I can judge, though you and your mother
may be of a different opinion, in possession of
my faculties, that I have the right to change
an investment ? '

George left the question unanswered.

c The sum was. I think, three thousand ?
May I ask what investment you chose ? '

For a few moments his father did not speak.
Then he sat down suddenly in his chair, and
blew his nose.

4 Well, George,' he said at last in a changed
voice, ' I defy anything to have looked more
promising. Capital men on the board  one of
them a personal friend of your uncle Tim's.
And debentures, too  nothing would induce
me to invest in ordinary shares. It's ridiculous.
The thing must improve. Tim
swears it will : and though perhaps he is disposed
to take a sanguine view of matters. I'm
convinced he's right here, quite convinced.
It stands to reason that the harbour must
improve.'

You did not mention the name ? '

'Didn't I? Yes, I did. You weren't
attending. Stenson  Stenson Harbour. You

don't know anything about it, I presume ? '
he added anxiously.

Oh, it's well enough known,' said his son
quietly.

The remark seemed to make Mr. Lawrence
more uncomfortable ; he stared at the other.
Then he said quickly 

6 I dare say, I dare say ! Such a failure
of a first-class investment must have produced
a sensation. What  what is said
about it ? '

< Nothing hopeful.'

Mr. Lawrence's apple-red cheeks had
grown duller in colour. But now he shook
himself, and affected a confident air.

6 My dear boy, that's ridiculous ; excuse me,
but it really is ridiculous. Of course, you
can't be expected to know. Tim has made
heaps of inquiries  there never was such a
fellow for taking any amount of trouble, he
doesn't seem to know what it means  and he

is very sanguine, very sanguine indeed. Of
course, it's a bad time now a very bad time ;
you know that I'm a poor man, and a small
cutting down, as it doubtless would seem to
any one else, means a great deal to me. But
that I don't mind, I don't indeed. What
troubles me,' he went on, laying his broad
hand on his son's knee,  is the thought of how
your mother and Nelly may be situated when
I'm gone. You're a young fellow, George,
and such thoughts wouldn't affect you, but
when you come to my years, they stick to you
like your shadow.'

If there was anything ludicrous in this
comparison of the two men, the younger one
did not see it. He was filled with an extreme
pity for the father who was fighting against
his own convictions, and who had to reproach
himself for the position in which he had
plunged those he loved.

I quite understand,' he said briefly.

Has the harbour stopped payment altogether
? '

'Altogether  for the present,' said Mr.
Lawrence, carefully advancing this reservation.


6 And the principal cannot be realised,
even at a loss ? '

It was a loan for so many years, and
there are three yet to run. Besides '

'Yes?'

But his father had changed his mind.
Nothing, nothing,' he said hastily. ' No
doubt it is a very serious temporary inconvenience,
but in time, in time matters must lookup,
trade will doubtless improve ; Tim is
quite confident that if we can manage to tide

over this present depression ' He spoke

in a high cheerful tone, but suddenly faltered
and paused abruptly. Then he got up, and
tried to be cheery again. ' Well, now you've
heard, and perhaps you can satisfy your mother,

perhaps she'll have more confidence in you.
Bather absurd, when one comes to think of it,
that a young fellow like you, always running
about over the country, should know anything
of business matters ! But there's no
reasoning with a woman, and your mother
always thinks poor Tim is to blame.'

George Lawrence got up, thrust his hands
into his pockets, and lounged to the window.

The value of the living is about three
hundred, if I remember rightly,' he said,
without noticing these disparaging allusions
to his age.

'Not that, not that, at present, with the
glebe so lowered in value.'

1 And all the parish machinery comes out
of your pocket ? '

'All.'

I don't know how on earth you get on,'
said the younger man, facing round upon his
father, ' but I am certain that my mother

VOL. I. U

would be happier if she thoroughly understood
what she has to spend. She has a
lively horror of anything like debt.'

Naturally, naturally,' said the rector
hastily.

6 But it doesn't appear to me that the
horror is shared by Tim Macarthy. Oh, I'm
not saying anything against him,' he added,
seeing his father about to speak ; ' merely
suggesting that I don't think economy can be
called his strong point.'

He,' returned Mr. Lawrence with warmth,
1 he has the most generous soul alive.'

'Ah, that's a dangerous possession,' said
his son coolly. c I really think that you must
talk to him  or shall I?  and point out the
inconveniences of generosity when there's
nothing to back it up. Which shall it be,
you or I ? '

Mr. Lawrence looked almost bewildered.

Upon my word,' he said at last, ' you

young men are ready to believe that all the
wisdom of the world is centred in yourselves.
You have no reverence, no '

George interrupted him with a laugh.

'My dear father,' he said, 'I am not so
young or inexperienced as you imagine, nor
has Tim Macarthy many claims upon my reverence.
He is not even mv uncle, and though
he may be the best fellow in the world, I never
can take him quite seriously. As for business,
I should think he knew about as much about
it as that chair.'

6 Oh, very well, very well,' returned the
rector in a choleric tone ; ' you have all your
mother's obstinacy ! Tim Macarthy's advice
is good enough for me, but my opinion counts
for nothing. One of these clays perhaps you
may change your mind  when you have lived
a little longer,' he added with emphasis.

1 That's quite possible ; I'm always changing
my mind,' said George good-humouredly.

'And may I inquire whether my examination
is at an end ? ' demanded his father in
the same tone of irritation. ' Perhaps I maybe
permitted to remark that it seems to me
that it would be more seemly were I to question
you upon your investments.'

I'll tell you all about them with pleasure,
if you care to hear. I've been fairly lucky
on the whole. And, by the way,' added the
young man carelessly, ' I've got a few hundreds
lying idle at the bank. If you approve,
I think they had better be made over to my
mother and Nelly.'

Mr. Lawrence's face changed and worked.
George,' he began hoarsely, then he covered
his face with one hand, and stretched out
the other. ' My dear boy  your mother 
God bless you ! That takes a load off my
mind.'

Don't think too much about it, for it will
not amount to much, I'm sorry to say. But

it may pay for Tim's presents,' added the
young man with a smile.

I'll speak to Tim at once,' said the rector
hurriedly.

That evening as George Lawrence paced
up and down the shrubbery smoking, with a
fox-terrier at his heels which had attached
itself to him, Major Macarthy came up to
him.

1 George,' he said heartily, ' your father
says you are the best son in the world.'

Now I wonder how long he will keep that
opinion?' returned the young man meditatively.
' I give him till tomorrow morning,
if all goes well.'

4 No, he means it. It was really fine of
you. But, my dear fellow, I wanted just to
say '

Out with it ! '

You spoke of the money being in the
bank. Now if you wished for a first-rate, a

really first-rete investment, high interest, and
as safe as consols, I can give you the tip.'

Can you ? ' said Lawrence, with a laugh.
Tim, do you know, I think we had better
talk of something else.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

G.
PRINTED BY
Sports WOODS AND CO., NEW-street Square
LONDON

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS'.

MRS. HENRY WOOD'S NOVELS.

1888.

rjlHE following Volumes appeared in 1888 in the NEW EDITION,
in Three-ands Sixpenny form, in scarlet cloth (which commenced
in January), and overleap will be found particulars of the succeeding
issues during 1889 and 1890:

EAST Lynn.

Two Hundredth Thousand.
THE Channing.

Eightieth Thousand.

MRS. HALLIBURTON's TROUBLES.

Fifty eighth Thousand.

THE SHADOW OF ASHLYDYAT.

Thirty-eighth Thousand.

LORD Auburn's DAUGHTERS.

Twentieth Edition.
Werner's PRIDE.

Thirtieth Edition.
ROLAND YORKE.

Forty-fifth Thousand.
JOHNNY LUDLOW (1st Series).
MILDRED ARKELL.
ST. MARTIN'S EVE.
Trevelyan HOLD.
GEORGE CANTERBURY'S WILL.

THE SIX-SHILLING EDITION, IN 28 VOLUMES, CAN STILL
BE OBTAINED.

RICHARD Bentley & SON, New Burlington Street, London.

ISSUED IN MONTHLY VOLUMES.

MRS. HENRY WOOD'S NOVELS

1889.

rriHE NEW ISSUE in Three-ands Sixpenny Volumes, in scarlet
cloth (which commenced in January 1888), is continued a
volume each month  in the following order :

THE RED COURT FARM.

WITHIN THE MAZE.

Easter's FOLLY.

LADY ADELAIDE.

OSWALD CRAY.

JOHNNY LUDLOW (2nd Series).

ANNE HEREFORD.

DENE HOLLOW.

Edwina.

A LIFE'S SECRET.

Poverty ABBEY.

COURT NETHERLEIGH.

TO APPEAR IN 1890.
Parkwater.

Johnny Ludlow (3rd Series).
Orville College.

Lady Grace.
Bess Ran.
The Master of Greyhounds.

The Story of Charles Strange.

THE SIX-SHILLING EDITION, IN 28 VOLUMES, CAN STILL
BE OBTAINED.

Richard BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street, London.

il%<% ?.%y.??%?.'-

OF Thun
Diversity
Of 

8>2B

VOL. IL

8POTTISW0ODB AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

BY

FRANCES May Pealed

AUTHOR OF  Neat. Neighbors And ' THE COUNTRY Courts '

'"Wo cyistcncc can be made perfect except tbroogb restraint
anb sacrifice' J. H. Storehouse

IN THEEE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
Richard BENTLEY & SON, NEW Burlington Street

publishers m (frbinarn lo jtr illajestg tljc Cuctn



All rights reserved

PAUL'S Sister,

CHAPTER XI.

But for the pleasure women get out of pain, there would
be mighty little for them in tliia world.  Alfred Arsiix.

OEMA found herself curiously thrust
upon her own reflections in the
lodgings at Calais. She was a busy
woman when at home, and could without
difficulty escape from too urgent self-questionings
by yielding to the pressure of a swarm
of possible occupations. Here she had literally
nothing to do except to nurse Janet, and
listen to the rapturous outpourings of her

YOL. II. B

bliss, wliicli after a while became slightly
tedious ; and this at a time when she would
have been really thankful for a less oppressive
leisure. She had heard in an effusive letter
from Agnes of Mr. Lawrence's departure ;
between that and her mother's absence,
Agnes considered herself to be in a position
which demanded sympathy. Norma knew
nothing of the circumstances of his going, and
could only suppose that the virtue of her
advice had become so clear to his mind, that
he had acted abruptly upon it. But it does
not take long for an impression which rests
upon looks and emphasis, to become deadened,
and she already doubted whether she had not
deceived herself in applying so much to his.

She was sitting one day in the little room,
which under its gay carpet had a red brick
floor, idly watching the swift passing of
tattered grey clouds of many shapes and
forms across a dazzling white suggestion of

where the sun lay laid. Her thoughts were
travelling on a well-beaten road, and more
than once she threw back her head with
impatience at her own folly. When the door
opened and ]\Iiss Ellison appeared, she started
up with an exclamation of delight.

'You were never more welcome!' she
said, kissing her.

Then you must be in a very depressed
condition,' returned the other, with a laugh.
I rather expected to be greeted nth the
demand of why I had left my charges.'

Oh, your charges ! They are quite
equal to taking care of themselves.'

Since you say so, do let me give vent to
my feelings. They are both so intolerably
crammed with good sense that I can't keep
up to their level. I think before it is too
late you might implant a few saving seeds of
folly in Agnes, but Lucy  Lucy is perfect.
Wil it last ? '

B 2

What ? '

Why, my dinners and my breakfasts, and
my general comfort.'

Ah, I can't say. But she is far better at
those things than I am,' said Norma humbly.

Yes ; you are not nearly so complete.
However, I have a great deal to say to you,
and we won't waste time over your deficiencies.
How is Janet, and what is all this that
has been developed out of her broken arm ?
I think Lucy rather feels that she missed an
opportunity.'

Oh, Lucy ! You can never be just to
Lucy ! ' cried Norma with impatience.

Haven't I just said that she is perfect ?
I am brimming over with justice. But about
Janet ? '

She is doing as well as possible. I make
her rest for a little while every day, and I
suspect she is asleep just now. It is rather a
shame that they should all agree so readily to

this engagement, just because it is the family
idea that anything will do for Janet ; but
meanwhile Mr. Eose, if dull, is a most
excellent young man, and she is supremely
happy. I have no doubt she is blissfully
dreaming of her Walter at this moment. He
will bear down upon us tomorrow.'

Then come out and sit on the pier with
me now. You look as if you wanted air.'

A vigorous breeze was blowing, the waves
leapt against the massive woodwork of the
pier, the black timbers rose sharply out of the
green waters, a party of sailors were hauling
barrels out of a boat, singing and laughing,
and a group of children watched them with
fascination ; things had all a strong fresh salt
look about them. Norma would not sit down.

Let me walk,' she said ; ' you don't know
how restless I feel here.'

Miss Ellison glanced at her.

Well,' she said abruptly, ' so jMr. Lawrence

is gone ? Norma, when I last talked to you
about him I had a dim idea that I had been a
fool, but now I am sorry to say that I am
quite clear on that point.'

Yes ? '

You might say a little more than a bald
yes. It is not every one who would acknowledge
herself to have been in the wrong.'

What am I to say ? '

It would be something to know whether
you agree with me ? '

I don't think he is in love with Lucy 
yet,' said Mrs. Winyeatt after a pause.

Yet ?  bless the woman, do you mean to
force him into it ? '

No. But men change  often they don't
know their own minds,' she went on a little
tremulously. 'What he likes at present, I
imagine, is just the pleasant kind of summer
life he has been leading, in which  in which
we are all mixed up. It came to him after a

good deal of roiigli knocking about, and it had
an unexpected charm. The charm, if it lasts,
may centre in Lucy.'

My dear Xorma,' said Miss Ellison sarcastically,
' I have always thought you capable
of constructing very ingenious little theories,
and now I am convinced of it. May I ask only
one question  Do you wish it to centre in
Lucy?'

Mrs. Winyeatt looked her full in the face,
and her voice was itself again.

I wish for her  for his happiness.' But
the next moment, she had dropped her head
and was walking swiftly on. You mustn't
despise me too much, Mary,' she said ; ' I know
you think I am pulling first on one side and
then on the other. Yhy, why did he ever
come here ? '

To make Lucy happy, I suppose,' said
Miss Ellison coolly. ' I wonder if he realises
his mission ? Some people are very unconscientious,

and it appears that you are going
to be Mr. Lawrence's conscience.'

Don't you see that it is my own I am
thinking of! ' cried Norma passionately. ' All
these years I have carried a burden, and now
I can't, I can't endure another ! '

I believe you to be a very morbid person.
If your first burden was as much a delusion as
this, you needn't expect any pity from me.
But I didn't suppose you to be selfish. You
are only considering yourself.'

Yes,' said the other, accepting the judgment
without protest.

Miss Ellison, looking at her, changed her
tone.

Do you mind telling me. Norma, whether
Mr. Lawrence has not contrived to let you
know that he loves you ? '

'I think he  likes me,' she answered
slowly ; ' I think it would grow to love if 
if I allowed it.'

Yes, those feelings generally depend upon
permission. And you return, "My good
friend, one object does quite as well as
another ; instead of myself, allow me to
present you with my sister-in-law," I think I
have at last grasped the situation.'

'No, you understand nothing  you will
not understand ! ' said Norma impatiently.
As she spoke she struck her foot against a
projecting piece of black timber, hurting herself
sharply. But she showed no sign of
having felt it.

What part of the programme have I left
out?'

You forget that you and others have
thought that Mr. Lawrence liked Lucy '

That was your own fault. You have always
so peremptorily forbidden our thinking
of you'

'And I never intended to marry again,'
said Norma, turning away her face. ' Remember

that Lucy fully believed that I
was  constant, at any rate ! ' she added
bitterly.

You have mourned your husband for
long and weary years.'

'That put her in a wrong position from
the first. She thought we could never be
more than old friends '

Lucy's wishes always mother her thoughts
very nicely,' murmured Miss Ellison.

'And she has been perfectly frank with
me. From one cause or another I have often
failed in gaining Lucy's confidence, and when
at last she has cfiven it to me, am I to turn
traitor ? '

She chose her moment very sagaciously ;
oh, I have never refused her my little tribute!'
said Miss Ellison dryly. ' She has made it
difficult for you.'

Ah, you own that ! Then recollect that
she is Paul's sister, and that all I can do for

his memory is to devote myself to those he
loved.'

Yes. The position would not trouble mein
the least, but, being what you are, I am
bound to say that Lucy has contrived her
complications well. Still, it does not rest
quite between you and her. There is the
man, and though he is a man, I suppose he
deserves some sort of consideration ? '

Mary ! '

Well, he hasn't had much.'

He has only too much ! ' said Xorma
quickly.

It is out of reach, then  out of my reach.
He has gone away ; pray is that for his own
good, or still for Lucy's ? '

They had reached the end of the pier by
this time, or gone as far as they could go,
and, leaning over, looked at the rush of
the flncf clouds, all soft dtcvs with crater
tufts of white scudding across them  at the

strong toss of the sea  at some odd brightly-coloured
foreign craft, heavy and gay at
once, which were malting for the harbour 
at the shadowy green water under the pier.
Norma did not at once answer. Then she
said suddenly 

You need not twit me with not caring for
myself, Mary. I have tried to be unselfish,
and have failed. But his going was his own
proposal.'

I should not wonder, however, if he had
asked you whether he should stay.'

Yes, that he did,' said the other, with a
quick blush.

And you said  go ! And the poor man
felt he had received his dismissal. This was
the consideration ! '

'Haven't I made it clear to you that I
couldn't  I couldn't have given any other
answer now ? He must have time to be sure
of himself. If this separation had not come

I should have made another. I will not see
hin, I will not give Lucy the power to reproach
me.'

Miss Ellison appeared to reflect.

Then you do not say you will never listen
to him ? ' she demanded in a more satisfied
tone.

No  I can't ! ' repeated Xorma passionately,
' I can't ! '

I am extremely glad to hear that commonsense
is to have a chance. Between romance
and self-sacrifice, that poor thing does get so
hustled out of the way ! And what length is
the ordeal to be ? And how does he look at
it?'

He ? He knows nothing. It is only a
concession to my own weakness. I shall wait
and see whether he thinks of anybody again,
whether he turns to Lucy. I have fixed no
time. I shall see.'

Miss Elhson looked grave. ' A dismissal

and a waiting without hope ! Xorma, I think
you are giving too hard a test.'

'It can scarcely be called a test,' said
Norma slowly. 'Do you suppose that I
should ever blame him for one moment if  if
I found that Lucy was right? I, who owe
him so much ! '

-* ' Well, you take an odd way of showing
your gratitude,' said the elder woman, with a
laugh. ' However, I know very well that you
must come to my age to learn to be pitiful to
your poor little love stories. One sees then
how easily things go wrong without our insisting
upon driving them wrong oneself, and
one feels impatient over misunderstandings,
and scruples, and sacrifices  of other people.
Yes, my dear, that's what it amounts to.
However'  she leaned towards her and
gave her a quick kiss  'one thing consoles
me. Men nowadays seem to think themselves
made for women to jump down their

throats, and Mr. Lawrence won't have that
attention from you. But Lucy will make up.
Shall I tell you what Lucy will do next'
Mrs. Winyeatt did not answer, and Miss Ellison
went on  ' She will go into Devonshire.
Is Mr. Lawrence's home at all near Ejng's
Ferry?'

I believe so.'

Then Lucy has friends at King's Ferry,
very dear delightful friends, whom she has not
seen for many years, and whom she would
like to meet again. Human nature is a perpetual
problem ! Here is Lucy, who spends
day and night in making subtle arrangements
for carrying out her little plans, and yet when
they appear they are so transparent that a
child can read through them. I don't understand
it. If I took so much trouble I should
produce a deeper effect, I am confident.'

Don't let us talk of Lucy,' said Xorma
wearily. ' You can never see her good side.'

Oh yes, I can. I fancy what I have just
said might be credited to her favour. And
as I suppose, from going off in that hurry,
Mr. Lawrence will not venture here again just
yet, I am quite disposed to assist Lucy to put
the question to the touch. You will have to
be convinced one way or another ; so to-night
I shall turn the conversation to Devonshire
and the advantages of King's Ferry. Lucy
will hug me. When shall you come back?
Agnes implored me to make you fix the day.'

'On Wednesday, I think. I shall take
Janet home with me ; she will have a quieter
time than with her own people.'

And she can have Lucy's room,' put in
Miss Elhson promptly.

No more was said between the two friends
except on ordinary subjects. They walked
back, and found Janet rested and rosy, and
so happy that her happiness was contagious.
Their early dinner came in a beautiful tin box

from the restaurant, carried on the head of a
white-aproned, stubbly-headed little man, very
cheerful in manner, and taking so much pride
in his dishes, that Norma suspected him of
being cook and master as well as waiter. He
had everything spread in the twinkling of
an eye, and whipped off the covers with a
flourish.

'Pommes de terre en robes de chambre! ' he
announced magnificently, and Janet began to
laugh. Everything indeed was presented to
them with such an air and such a name, that
they felt as if they were dining at the best
cafe in Paris.

Miss Elhson went back nth her mind in
some degree at rest. She loved Norma very
dearly, and she had been fretted with herself
for what she had said on the cliff. She was
fretted still, for with Norma's sensitive and
high-strung nature, words such as she had
lightly uttered evidently possessed an undue

VOL. II. C

influence. She wished Norma to marry again,
because she felt as if her life had been overshadowed
by remorse for what Miss Elhson
held to have been no more than girlish
thoughtlessness. Eome, with its impressiveness,
its insistent fascinations, had swept her
away, had intoxicated her. Then had come
a terrible shock of awakening, and what Paul
had believed would soften the shock had
added tenfold to its intensity. It had left her
afraid, afraid of yielding to what might have
been of deep interest in her life, so that
though she was tenderly merciful to others,
she was almost ascetic towards herself and
her own impulses. If she married George
Lawrence, it was certain that his sturdy character
would be of the greatest service to
Norma ; already he had seemed to let in more
air, more freedom. If she married  but until
to-day she had hardly ventured to hope that
Norma would admit the idea, and Lawrence's

sudden departure had looked like the sequel
to an explanation. Now she had surprised
her friend's secret, or rather Norma with her
usual absolute truthfulness had made no effort
to conceal it from her, had taken refuge
behind no protestations. This was a great
point in the perspective of the future, and
brought it within a more calculable distance.
As for Lucy, Miss Ellison dished her, and
was inclined to underrate her influences in
the affair. It was true, as Mrs. Winyeatt said,
that she could not be quite just to Lucy, and
it always excited her ire if anything like a
comparison was made between the sisters-in-law.
Nay, she went so far as to say that a
man who could think of Lucy could not be
worthy of Norma. And the only things she
really feared was some self-sacrificing impulse
on the part of Norma. This fear lay at the
bottom of many of her caustic remarks.

One evening, a day or two before Mrs.

Winyeatt's return, the weather was thick and
sultry. Agnes in the drawing-room, by the
light of a lamp, was eagerly devouring a
story book, while Miss Ellison and Lucy sat
idly on the balcony, with no greater pretext
than that of watching the Calais light. They
had been silent for some time, when Lucy
turned her face towards her companion.

How oddly things fall out ! ' she said.
'Do you remember our mentioning King's
Ferry the other day ? '

I remember your speaking of it very well.
Have you heard from your friends ? '

This very morning. Isn't it remarkable
? '

Very,' said Miss Ellison dryly. ' I wish 1
could get letters by merely thinking about my
correspondents. I invariably find it necessary
to write first before the answer comes.'

So do I  generally,' said Lucy, with a
laugh. 'But there's something more. You

told me that I ought to see that part of the
country.'

'Ah, I suppose I foresaw that you would
be invited there some day.'

Well, you were very foreseeing. I shall
be afraid of you. Lena Eussell wants me to
come down, and stay with them.'

And when do you go . '

Wlien ? Oh, I have not yet even decided
the whether. There are several things for
and against,' returned Lucy lazily. 'Going
away is always a bore.'

So is staying at home, sometimes.'

'Yes. And my going might be a kindness
to Norma if she is really about to be saddled
with Janet and her bashfulness. If I go away
she could perhaps induce you to stay, and
that would be a real delight to Xorma. You
know it is a Httle hard upon her that you
should have been here all this time. Only I
am half afraid that if I  the worldly element 

PAUL S SISTER

take myself off, Norma and you will kill
yourselves with good works in this stuffy
weather. Perhaps I had better stay.'

Ah, I don't think you will.'

You don't think me capable of giving up
my own pleasures for other people,' said the
girl, sitting up and speaking in a vexed tone.

My dear Lucy, I thought you had not
even arrived at the point of deciding that it
was a pleasure. Wasn't it to be a kindness to
Norma ? '

Miss Ellison was conscious that she was
not behaving well. She felt a little ashamed
of herself when Lucy laughed good-humouredly.


How unkind you are ! Oughtn't it be
both ? I don't set up for absolutely unmixed
motives. Eeally and truly, I can't make up
my mind about King's Ferry, for Lena says
that it is a dull place, and I can quite believe
her.'

She offers you something more inviting
than dulness, though, no doubt ? '

Oh, she will be delighted to see me, of
course,' returned Lucy carelessly. ' Lena
always was a good soul. But, oh, dear, the
country does take its amusements so seriously
that I am almost frightened at the prospect !
I think I should decide against it if Mr.
Kennedy were not so anxious to get me away.
There's another motive, you see.'

Mr. Kennedy ! ' echoed Miss Elhson. ' I
had no idea you were ill.'

'I wasn't going to have Norma worried.
I have not been feeling well for some time, so
this morning I just sent for him. And he is
sure that a Httle change is all I want, after
which I suppose I really ought to go. But I
do wish some one would give me the necessary
poke.'

'It will come, then,' said Miss Ellison
cheerfully.

The other stared at her through the
darkness.

Why ? What makes you say that ? ' she
demanded.

Because I fancy you generally get what
you wish.'

Oh, how little, how little you know ! '
cried the girl tragically. ' The world would
be a different place, indeed, if that were the
case ! I get what I wish ! '

Well,' said Miss Ellison, with a laugh,
you get something which does as well ; and so
I prognosticate that when you have made up
your mind what it is, it will come.'

She said to herself that night that she was
absurdly alive to Lucy's little weaknesses ; they
irritated her so much that she could not resist
putting her finger on each as it passed by, so
as to let Lucy see that she was aware of them ;
and she felt as if the girl were either very
good-humoured or very dense, not to take

offence. They were palpable to her, because
she was always on the look-out for them, and
she could not conceive that Lucy's careful little
plans might have an undesigned air for those
who took them naturally. She was convinced,
for instance, that the doubts and hesitations
would last a day or two longer, but that the
letter of acceptance was already on its way
to Mrs. Eussell. ' Well,' she said to herself
grimly, ' the man who can choose Lucy
Winyeatt when he has the ghost of a chance
of winning Xorma, is welcome to her ! He
does not deserve anything better.' And she
took a malicious pleasure in not carrying out
one part of Lucy's programme, for in writing
to Mrs. Winyeatt she made no mention of her
sister-in-law, whereas she was certain that she
had been intended to be the first to allude to
the Devonshire visit.

No action, whether foul or fair,

Is ever done, but it leaves somewhere

A record, written by fingers ghostly,

Asa blessing, or a curse, and mostly

In the greater weakness or greater strength

Of the acts which follow it.  Golden Legend.

jHEN Norma came back. Miss Ellison
soon perceived that no more was to
be said on the subject of their conversation
on Calais pier. She was very busy
over Janet and Janet's comfort, and Agnes
could hardly bear to let her mother out of
her sight. When Lucy announced her plans,
which she described as still uncertain, but
which apparently had taken a definite form,
Mrs. Winyeatt listened quietly, without expressing

surprise. Lucy found a little difficulty
in arriving at the end of lier explanation.


Didn't Miss Ellison tell you ? ' she said
at last, hastily. 'We talked over the pros
and cons one night, because I thought if I did
decide to go, you would like her to stay and
help you with Janet. Otherwise I don't think
I could go away and leave you to be eaten up
by Somervilless.'

I shall do very well,' Xorma said cheerfully.
' Don't think of me. Janet is a dear
little thing, and I shall enjoy having her.
When do you talk of going ? '

'If the thing has to be done, it may as
well be done at once,' returned Lucy. She
was arranging some roses in a glass bowl, and
looking at them with her head first on one
side then on the other. ' I suppose Lena
would be disappointed now if I threw her
over. I think I shall say Saturday.'

The day after tomorrow ! ' said Norma
in some surprise. 'Well, of course, there is
nothing against it, only I did not know you
had determined.'

'I don't suppose I did determine, I just
drifted to the point,' the girl answered, with a
laugh. ' Sometimes things seem to drag one
along quite oddly.' She paused, and then
said suddenly, 'Xorma, I wish to be absolutely
frank with you.'

Something like a slight shiver seized
Mrs. Winyeatt, but it had passed the next
moment, and she laid down her pen and
said 

'I am always glad when you are frank
with me.'

Well, you can't accuse me of any lack of
outspokenness about Mr. Lawrence; I have
talked to you quite freely on the subject,'
retorted Lucy, still laughing, and with some
apparent self-consciousness. 'It seemed tome

necessary that we should understand each
other.'

Xorma was silent. She leant back in her
chair with her hands clasped in her lap, and
her eyes fixed upon them. Lucy glanced at
her and waited for an answer, but as none
came she went on 

From something he said, I imagine that
his home is not very far from King's Ferry,
and it does not seem unlikely that we may
meet. I don't in the least mind telling you
that this has been one reason for accepting
Eussell's invitation.'

'Have you accepted it.' asked Mrs. Win-yeast,
lifting her clear eyes.

Yes, I suppose I have,' answered Lucy,
with a touch of embarrassment. ' I told Mr.
Lawrence that I had friends in that neighbourhood,
and he was very anxious I should
come.'

She paused again.

Well ? ' said Mrs. Winyeatt indifferently.

Well, I wished you to know.'

There isn't very much to know, is there ?
I hope you will enjoy yourself to your heart's
content.'

That takes in a good deal,' said the girl
with a laugh. ' Thank you, Norma. At any
rate, you don't disapprove ? '

Ah, you haven't asked me that ! But I
can't approve or disapprove, because I don't
know all the circumstances.'

Lucy appeared to reflect. ' I thought I
had told you,' she said. To this Norma
making no answer, Lucy pulled out her
flowers again and began to rearrange them.
'I shall come to a conclusion one way or
another, at any rate, and there will be no
disturbing element. You're the disturbing
element, my dear,' she added quickly.

So you have told me before.'

'Yes, I thought I had told you everything.

You have never been so frank with
me.'

A slight red flush crept over Forma's
face, but she remained silent, while her sister-in-law
looked at her curiously.

'You could tell me a good deal if you
only would,' she said at last. ' For instance,
what Mr. Lawrence said to you that last
afternoon.'

Norma started to her feet.

This is too much ! ' she said angrily.
Have you no delicacy ? '

Lucy quailed, for Norma's impetuous
wrath always impressed her, but she had the
secret gratification of knowing that if she
kept her own temper, she would presently
have her sister-in-law repentant for the outburst.


'You are very unkind, Norma,' she said.
How was I to know that there was anything
which we might not all have heard ? I have

never for a moment supposed that you cared
anything for Mr. Lawrence, excepting perhaps
that if you were a little bit interested in
me, you might wish to give me a helping
hand. And I don't think it is anything extraordinary
or  what did you say?  indelicate,
if I am anxious to know whether he
mentioned my name that day. But  but
you quite frighten me when you are so impetuous
! '

'I beg your pardon,' said Mrs. Winyeatt
in a low voice. ' I should not have spoken
so hastily. No, your name was not once
mentioned.'

That was what I wished to know. Well,
we had a good deal of talk before he left. He
came early in the morning.'

And he had left no message, no word for
her, nothing that could even bridge over
the break in their pleasant intimacy this
summer !

It was then that he hoped I should come
to King's Ferry.'

Norma had not sat down again ; she
walked to the window, came back and stood
resting her hand on the writing-table.

Lucy,' she said slowly, ' there is just one
thing I should like to say.'

If it isn't the sort of thing you said just
now,' returned the girl lightly.

I have no right to interfere  I don't wish
to interfere. Your confidence, you must own,
has been a little forced upon me '

Forced ! ' murmured Lucy.

 and perhaps it is only partial ; perhaps
you have more to rest upon than I know.
The saddest part of it to me is that you tell
me that you don't love him, and yet wish to
marry him. With that the case, I ought
to tell you that I couldn't put out so much asa
little finger to help you, even  even '

'Even?'

VOL. n. D

Even if lie loved you. And he does not.'

Not yet.'

No, not yet. It is impossible to look
forward to what might come in the future.'

'That's where you make a mistake.
Norma. I can look forward very comfortably
to the future. I see no reason why he should
not like me, and I like him,' Lucy said
calmly. ' You and I are very different ; you
are romantic, I, practical  you impulsive, I,
patient. But, my dear, don't let your conscience
be uneasy; I am going out of the
possibility of being helped or hindered. You
will have no responsibility in the matter.
You need not care.'

'But it is not that, it is not that!' cried
Norma. She dropped down by Lucy's side,
laid her hand on her knee, and poured out
her words with her old impetuosity. 'Dear
Lucy, if you would only believe that it is of
you I am thinking, that I do care with all my

heart ! Don't you know what Paul's sister
must be to me ? Do let us bear with and
hold by each other, and let no hateful misunderstanding
come between us ! '

Lucy slipped her arm round her sister's
neck. 'Dear N'orma ! ' she whispered.

Don't you see,' went on Xorma falteringly,
' that I cannot bear to hear you speak
as you do about marriage, and  Mr. Lawrence,
because it is not worthy of you or of him. If
you loved each other it would be so different,
it would all be straight '

Would it ? ' asked the girl, resting her
head on the other's shoulder, and smiling.

Yes ! ' cried Xorma eagerly. ' Xow it is
so cold-blooded, so  oh, I don't think you
really meant what you said ! '

I am too matter-of-fact for you,' replied
Lucy, venturing now on a little laugh ; ' but
you must recollect that I see no reason why

D 2

the feeling should not be something quite
different by-and-by.'

If you would wait for the feeling ! '

Well, as I said to you once before, I am
not going to marry any one by force,' went on
the girl, mocking gently. Norma almost imperceptibly
drew back a little, with a sense
that her appeal had failed, but it did not
strike her that her motive had been misjudged.
' I dare say it will all come to
nothing ; but if it is otherwise, when he has
digested the fact that his little fancy for you
is hopeless '

This time Norma drew herself quite away ;
she was beginning hurriedly to speak when
Lucy stopped her.

Well, we won't talk of that. Let it be
hopeless or not, he will have to come to some
conclusion ; and if things fall out so that he
and I find Ave like each other  you won't interfere,
will you?' added the girl coaxingly.

If you and lie like each other, why
should I interfere ? ' said Xorma proudly.

You promise ? '

You make very odd requests. Don't
you see that I couldn't ? '

'Well, remember.'

Norma reflected with a sigh that she had
not got any nearer to the girl in the conversation,
and she could not suppress the feeling
that Lucy, when she presented her with her
confidence in this matter, used it as a weapon.
This did not prevent her from guarding it
quite sacredly, but it kept her from taking
the pleasure in it which she wanted very
much to feel. She had often longed for some
proof that Lucy really looked upon her as a
sister, and could she but have been able to
persuade herself that the girl and Lawrence
loved each other, poor Xorma would have
trampled on her own heart without a murmur,
even with a certain exultation. But as it was

now, the sacrifice had such an unworthy, such
an inadequate object, that she recoiled. The
spiritual force of her life protested against it.
And she was too honest to take refuge in what
would have been shelter to many women, the
fact that she might for the present remain
passive ; for if a crisis came at any hour, even
if it never came at all, it appeared to her that
she should have made her resolution, and
not act upon the haphazard of the moment.
And she told herself that now, more than
ever, it was plain that if  after full time had
been given  if George Lawrence came back
and still loved her, she need not say him nay.
But if, if, if, if ! What would be the upshot
of these ifs ?

Lucy, meanwhile, made another step on
her road. She finished her roses, humming a
tune as she did so, and then went her way to
her own room. There she carefully chose a
plain grey sheet of paper and a broad-nibbed

pen, and still humming the same air and smiling
to herself, she sat down to write to
George Lawrence.

She had refrained from carrying out her
promise until now, because she felt sure that
by this time he would be impatiently wondering
at her silence ; but as she was never quite
straightforward with herself, she preferred to
suppose that she had waited until her plans
were fixed, and she could say positively that
she was coming into Devonshire. Over this
it was incumbent to express much surprise.

Isn't it amazing I ' she wrote. ' When
you spoke of its being a part of the country
which 1 ought to see, I am sure it seemed
dozens of years away, and now it is probable
that I shall be there on Saturday.' ' He
mustn't be too certain about it,' she rapidly
reflected, ' for I remember once hearing him
say that half the delight of a thing lay in uncertainty.'
'Indeed, I can hardly believe it

myself, but the friends I told you about, who
live at King's Ferry, are so anxious that I
should come to them that I don't like to refuse
; so I have said that if I can be seared I
shall do as they wish. Norma is at home
again, and has brought Janet Somerville here.
Janet's arm is doing as well as possible.
Didn't you say that your home was somewhere
not so very far from King's Ferry ? ' Lucy
stopped to reconsider the last sentence.
Finally, after a little hesitation, she passed her
pen through it, and wrote rapidly in its place
' I am sure you said you lived near King's
Ferry, and I do hope near in Devonshire does
not mean miles away, because I don't think I
could have made up my mind to such a plunge,
if I hadn't believed you would befriend me.
Don't you think you might take pity and come
over on Sunday afternoon, just to see if I am
there or not? But, never mind, I am not
going to be exacting.' She wrote a clean

copy, finished the letter vith kind regards,
sincerity, and all the rest of it, humming her
tune very lightly the while, and smiling a
little.

Norma is a dear good creature,' she reflected,
' but how extraordinarily transparent
she is ! A child could see through her. And
so simple ! I am sure she gave me all that
advice without in the least realising that anyone
would know she had a reason for it ; I
dare say she did not even realise it herself.
Height ! ' said Lucy, smiling yet more, ' I
suppose the fact is that the very best of us
are unconsciously selfish. I am very glad,
at any rate, that I have been quite open with
her, so that whatever happens there can
never be any misunderstanding.'

Lucy was always careful to satisfy her
conscience, and one of ]\Iiss Ellison's caustic
remarks was to the effect that she had reduced
the poor thing to such insignificance that very

little sufficed to keep it quiet. ' Now Norma,'
she added, ' Norma has a terribly capacious
conscience.' But Miss Ellison, it must be
admitted, was not always just where her
affections were concerned.

Lucy and her maid departed by an earl
train on Saturday, and Norma insisted upon
going to the station to see them off. She had
thought it possible that if Mrs. Paissell's house
was not large, Martin might have been left
behind, but Lucy had not considered this
necessary. She was a little doubtful as to lier
quarters, and would not part with her maid.
But she was very animated and affectionate,
giving much good advice to Mrs. Winyeatt
upon the matter of not allowing herself to be
overrun by Somervilless, not catching cold, not
working too hard  and Norma was really
grateful for these marks of care.

How long does Lucy intend to stay
away? ' asked Janet that day at luncheon.

Mr. Eose was there, and her face was a study
of happiness.

She does not know. If she does not like
it, she says she shall soon come back,' replied
Norma.

'But I think she will like it,' Janet
ventured, nodding her head with meaning.
And she thought so herself, I know, for she
told me so. I am sure I hope she will, for I
feel as if she must have hated me for having;
taken you away all this time, Mrs. Winyeatt.
It seems as if I had spoilt everything, and not
been a bit punished myself,' she added with a
bright smile.

'Oh, come." remonstrated Mr. Eose;
when you were the one to break your arm ! '

But that was nothing ! '  eagerly. ' You
have all been so kind and made so light of the
trouble I have given you ! '

'I am trying to think whether I can't
honestly come in for a share in this gratitude,'

said Miss Ellison. ' I do like to get my good
things easily. And, upon the whole, Janet, if
you are so much obliged to Lucy, I don't see
that I need be left so far behindhand.'

Janet flung her a blissful look.

How funny you all are ! ' said Agnes,
glancing from one to the other with some dissatisfaction.
' I don't understand. I thought
we should do something pleasant now.'

Why, so we will, Agnes,' said her mother,
smiling at her. ' What shall it be ? Shall we
have tea somewhere out of doors, and call for
Maggie Kendall on our way ? Will that do ?

It couldn't be better,' said the little girl
joyfully. ' May we take a kettle ? Where
shall we go ? '

People generally go on the cliffs, don't
they ? ' said Mr. Eose, with the consciousness
that he had effected a suggestion.

Oh, not the cliffs ! ' exclaimed Norma
hastily. ' I am so tired of the sea ! Let us

go inland and find a real green field and a
few trees, and pretend that we are in the
country.'

She spoke in perfect good faith, unconscious
of the reason which made her at this
time shrink from the places with which Lawrence
was closely connected, or she mio-ht
have punished herself by courting pain in the
hope of curing folly. Her nature sprang
readily at eager renunciation, and it was always
more possible for her to rush to extremes than
to more between them. She could love, dislike,
enjoy, intensely, and had been so much
frightened at the strength of these emotions
that she was ready, if only it were possible, to
pluck them up by the roots.

But if there had been something harsh and
austere in her treatment of herself, there was
an earnest longing and a braye resolve which
kept it from sinking to an ignoble level.
She had all her old sweetness, and the discipline

of years had checked her impetuosity
so far, that though it might still carry her
away for a moment, she never lost hold over
herself.

 H Im .m

CHAPTEE XIII.

Places of nestling green for poets made.  Leigh Hurt.

Say, has some wet, bird-haunted English lawn
Lent it the music of its trees at dawn ?

Matthew Aexold.

lEOEGE Lawrence had a good deal
to harass him in his old home.
The more he looked into his father's
affairs, the more serious they seemed ; he
found it difficult to comprehend how anyone
possessed of reasonable prudence could
have managed to fall into such a tan-le of
unsound investments. The sums were not
large but taken relatively they became so,
for they formed a considerable part of Mr.

Lawrence's income. How they were to live
upon what remained seemed a problem to his
son. His first step was to urge upon his
father to make an insurance of his life, but
even to accomplish so much cost infinite
trouble and patience, Mr. Lawrence grumbling
and postponing from day to day. He had to
pay somewhat heavily, and found the outlay
intolerable ; indeed, if George had been less
firm, he would have contrived to slip out of
it at the last moment.

You should have made him do it years
ao-o, mother,' said George one evening, when
the others were out, and he and Mrs.
Lawrence sat by the open window. The day
had been sultry, Mr. Lawrence had done his
best to upset the arrangements which his son
had carefully prepared, and there had been a
good deal of wrangling in the house, half in
jest, it is true, yet sharp enough to produce
a feeling of irritation such as he disliked.

It was not possible,' said Mrs. Lawrence
with decision. ' How could I ask your father
to do what could only be of use to me or to
Nelly after he was taken ? I could not do
such a thing ; it would be inhuman.'

Her son looked at her in some surprise.
He could have understood these scruples in
some women  in Xorma Winyeatt, for instance
 but it was difficult to give them a
place, when husband and wife were on such
exceedingly outspoken terms as were his father
and mother. He did not hesitate to admit
the affection existing underneath, it only appeared
to him as if it did not stand in the
way of saying anything.

Well, it will be done tomorrow, if I
have to stick to my father like a leech all day,'
he said at last, leaning forward and examining
some letters in a pocket-book ; ' but of course,
done now, when he is no longer young, the

VOL. II. E

premium he has to pay out of his small
income is crippling.'

'That cannot be helped,' returned his
mother courageously. ' We can Hve on very
little, if I am told what there is to spend and
am left alone. Nelly doesn't run into expenses,
she cares only too little for her own appearance.
She is a very good girl at heart,
George, though I can see she jars upon you.
Your coming has taken a load off my mind,
for it wasn't poverty I feared, but the disgrace
of debt. And now I trust altogether
to you to let me know how much there is
left.'

As near as I can judge,' said the young
man, looking up from his pocket-book, ' four
hundred a year and the rectory.'

Very good.'

You can't live on that. Remember the
parish expenses.'

I do remember, and I can do it  if only

I am left alone. If your uncle goes about
contracting debts in our name, then  I give
up the struggle, and we may as well go to the
workhouse at once.'

I have spoken to him very seriously, and
he vows he will be prudent.'

Vows ! You don't know him. He couldn't
be prudent  it isn't in him. George, there
is only one chance, you must get him to go
away ; and once removed from his influence,
I can manage your father, I have no fears.
Surely it is the hardest thiner in the world
that we should be saddled with him indefinitely
! Surely I have a right to choose
our guests ! '

George shook his head. He saw his
mother was trembling with eagerness.

I can't, I really can't. Tim is so ridiculously
good-natured and kind-hearted that
every one supposes it impossible to hurt his
feelings ; but I do believe that would hurt

UBRARt -.

mUVERSnYOFtUMi

them beyond mending, and I couldn't do it.
I'll keep an eye on him, and if I can get Nelly
to listen to me, lie might do a good deal.
There are no debts existing at present, that I
can make out.'

'That must be because you have paid
them, then.'

Of this assertion he took no notice, he
went on 

I want you to understand that in future

Nelly will have an allowance of a hundred a

year.'

George ! '

Out of which she ought perhaps to pay

something towards her keep ; you and she

had better settle together how much.'

Because we have squandered our means,
do you suppose I will allow you to be robbed
of yours! A hundred a year! The child
would never know what to do with it.'

Oh, she will soon learn,' he said with a

laucrh. ' And she will be able to indulge Tim
a little.'

Tim I How can you put temptation in
his way ! '

Her son looked grave.

Do you know you are very unjust to Tim?
He would die sooner than willingly hurt anyone
of us.'

His mother's lips closed tightly. ' You
don't know him,' she repeated, ' and your father
is only wax in his hands. I tell you I will not
accept that money. The parents should lay
up for the children.'

Wlien they can. However, you've really
nothing to do with the matter, my dear mother.
It's Nelly's affair.'

You may marry. What would your wife
say to such an arrangement ? '

That's beyond me, I confess. Suppose we
wait for the event.'

But you may marry. I hope you will,'

his mother insisted in an excited way ; ' it is
high time. Why, George, you must be seven
eight-and-thirty, though I can hardly believe
it, and do you mean to say that there is
no one you care about ? '

No, I can't say that,' he answered
slowly.

Her breath quivered a little. Then she
said jealously  ' And you never told me ! '

There was nothing to tell,' he said with a
smile ; ' I am not going to be married, if that
is in your mind.'

But why not  if there is some one ? '

The some one doesn't see her way to it, I
suppose. It is an everyday occurrence, though
good mothers like you find it hard to credit.'
George spoke lightly, and hoped his mother
would now abandon the subject, but she was
not disposed to drop it so easily. The lines
on her forehead grew stronger.

 You should have told me before, George ;

probably you have made a great mistake,
knowing as little as you do about women's
characters. She cannot be a very nice person
if she is pretending not to like you, but I
dare say it might all be put straight with a
little assistance.'

Thank you, mother ; there is nothing to
be done,' her son replied quietly.

And you will not even tell me her
name ? '

He shook his head, and got up. ' I'm
going out for a smoke.'

I wish you would not smoke so much ;
it's a pernicious habit. Your father doesn't
smoke.'

'Ah, you see I've lived too much in the
East ever to get out of it again. Ai-e you all
right, or shall I pul your chair into this
corner ? '

He made the necessary alterations very
carefully, and then strolled off by himself,

avoiding a sound of hammering and laughing,
which told that Major Macarthy and his niece
were engaged in manufacturing a rabbit-hutch.
Such a talk as has just been repeated was of
daily occurrence, and though he went through
his part good-humouredly, he was really worried
by the little frets which seemed to rise
all round him, and to lay hold of him. with
their cuttle-fish tentacles. No one else
thought anything of them ; to George Lawrence
they were fatal to the peace and harmony
which he liked to connect with the word
home, and troubled him more than things of
greater moment.

He was sorry that any allusion to Norma
had been made. With a force of contrast
which insisted upon declaring itself, and in the
midst of the somewhat jangling affection in
which he found himself, her image stood up
warm, tender, beautiful. He yearned for her
as he had not yearned before. She seemed

to her lover the very embodiment of all
womanly perfection. As he strode along the
narrow lanes, a square-built, somewhat rugged-featured
man, no one would have guessed the
passionate longing which possessed his heart.
Everything that he remembered about her
was sweet. He smiled with tender reverence
when he thought of her struggles to do penance,
as it were, for the rush of young eager life
which had once swept her away ; he understood,
as others could not, the noble aim of
self-conquest which underlaid things which
might be reckoned of but small account. But
since that day at Calais, to which he had
carried many hopes, he all but despaired.
He thought he understood, but he did not 
yet. He set her on a pinnacle, this woman
with a trembling loving heart, moved by him
as he was moved by her, and waiting to be
won.

What hopes he had were much bound up

in Lucy. For her he had a warm and pleasant
liking ; and as he had thought she felt the
same for him, and as he was certain that she
read feelings which he was at no pains to
hide, he was also confident that she would do
the best for him that she could. Every day
he had hoped a letter would come, with some
word in it of Norma, some answer perhaps to
his message, something at any rate  a break
in the silence. But there had been nothing.
And he could not help taking this as a very
bad sign, since if there had been anything to
cheer, Lucy would surely have held it out
to him. It appeared to him that an age had
passed since he left Dover ; the thread of those
golden days had been sharply, even rudely
snapped, and nothing whatever connected this
life with that.

It has been said that he was walking along
lanes. The lanes were narrow and in parts
stony, but the stones were generally used for

mending in patches, and it was possible topick
your way along softer places. Here and
there on either side of the road stood a white
cottage, or it might be a larger group of white
cottages than could be judged by first sight, a
house being apparently pierced to give access
to a little picturesque stone-paved court, into
which two or three dwellings opened, and
which ended in a delightfully-coloured, much-worn
flight of stone steps, leading up to garden
or orchard. These orchards, which were,
indeed, a great feature in the village, and in
early spring turned it into a lovely bower
of blossom, were chiefly of plum-trees, and at
this time plums were hanging round every
house, and dropping at the feet of the passers-by.
Lawrence walked past trees and houses
until he reached a thicker group of cottages,
and turning slightly to the left found himself
on the crest of a hill, and at the head of the
principal street of this end of the scattered

village, which immediately ran sharply down
to its chief highway  the river.

What a street it was, and how full of
pictures ! The road steep, and curving a little
from side to side, out of pure mercy to manor
beast Who tried their breath against it ;
with no hard edges, but softly fringed with
kindly bordering of grass and groundsel and
shepherd's purse  the walls of the gardens
by its side, rich with all the dainty and delicate
colours grey stone can take under the
mellowing of sun and wind, and growth of
tiny weeds ; broken by gay little gates with
steps leading up to them on one side the road,
and steps leading down from them on the
other ; or may be, a hospitable absence of
gate at all, and the little path lying open to
all comers  the gardens, one tangle of flowers,
great fuchsias, carnations, phloxes, roses, flowering
their very hearts out for joy of the sunshine
and soft moisture  the cottages, plastered and

thatched, set some back, some forward, at all
sorts of angles to meet the steepness of the
hill, or the brokenness of the ground, with
shelter of homely little porches, just a few
boards nailed on to keep the drip off the
door, with square small-pane windows,
behind which geraniums flamed ; with, overall,
the soft gloom of the thatched roofs, such
as only the west country can show for velvety
smoothness and rich tone. In the street two
artists were sitting, painting ; two or three
fishermen climbed the hill, carrying their
oars ; children swarmed about, picking up
the purple plums which had fallen from overhanging
trees ; an old horse stood at a gate,
half-way up the hill ; and down below, where
the houses ended, the river, golden in the
evening lights, flowed swiftly by on its way to
the sea.

Lawrence went leisurely down the hill,
slipping here and there over a loose stone,

and exchanging greetings with the people, who
had known him ever since he Alas a boy.
One old woman stopped him to ask how his
mother felt herself that day, and another
insisted upon showing him the crutch which
Major Macarthy had made for her little grandson.
At the foot of the hill, on the one side,
the houses turned sharply round, and ran
along, two or three of them, confronting the
river. There was a little stone jetty for use
when the tide was low, and a dozen boats
floating near it. At high tide steps in the
wall formed the landing-place.

Lawrence liked this part of the village,
the broad sweep of the curving river, with
wooded banks opposite, the cheerfulness of
the clustering boats, some of which were
generally in movement, the old ferryman
in his blue jersey, and the people who came
dawdling down to their amphibious occupations.
He took a turn or two on the

edge of the river wall, this thoughts running
persistently in one track, and now and then,
by shutting his eyes, he could almost imagine
that Norma was walking there by his side.

Then he found by a thickening of the
hangers-on that the steamer was expected,
and presently she came in sight, whistled,
paused for a few seconds opposite the village,
dropped a woman or two and a great many
empty baskets into the ferry-boat, churned up
the water again and went her way up the
river towards the golden lights.

'There's Polly ! ' said a large red-faced girl,
with broad shoulders and a loud voice.

And sleeve sold her plums down to Pdver-
mouth.'

Sees, if her ain't chucked 'em overboard
to save bringing of 'em back,' suggested a
sandy-haired young fisherman, with a grin.
The first girl turned upon him sharply.

I'll be bound, any way, her's a better hand

to a bargain than you, Tom Taylor. Who
parted with his veesh for eightinpence a
pour', and seed 'em sell it under his nose for
dree an' six ? '

She emphasized her remark by pointing
scornfully, and there was a burst of laughter
which made the luckless Tom look wrathfully
around him, with desire to punch some one's
head. But the girl, who was the champion
rower of the river, turned her back upon him,
and swinging herself easily upon the wall,
watched the slow steady strokes of the old
ferryman.

His passengers were a stout woman, and a
small sickly-looking girl. This last was Polly,
and the big girl welcomed her with a good-humoured
nod, and was greeted by her as
Ida. There was a good deal of laughter,
which seemed principally directed against the
sandy-haired young fisherman, and Lawrence
with some amusement saw them turn into a

small cottage hard by, where the ferryman
lived, and against which the sailing of the
steamers were posted up. But presently the
younger girl came out again with two or
three letters for the rectory, which had
reached Pdvermouth by the second post.
Letters were apt to come out in a skirmishing
fashion, by any means which happened to
present itself, over aod above the usual
delivery, but Lawrence had forgotten this
when he watched the steamer arrive.

Now, with some excitement, he saw Lucy's
handwriting.

He tore it open at once, and read it
eagerly, searching, as he read, for one word
of Norma. There was a word, but it was very
barren ; nothing could be extracted from it
beyond a cold fact, and in spite of having
wished for it so strongly he could now have
found it in his heart to desire that it had not
come, but that the news of Lucy's arrival was

VOL. n. 

pleasant to him. He thrust the letter into his
pocket and stood with his hands behind him,
looking at the water, which was beginning to
lap the stones beneath his feet. He had to
allow that the silence of Lucy's letter was
distinctly unfavourable, for it had been a very
small thing he had set his mind upon, and
could not have compromised Norma. But
the darker things looked, the more there
sprang up within him an obstinate spirit
which would not accept defeat ; and he told
himself that he would extract comfort from
Lucy. Tien he drew out her letter and reread
it, with more thought of her and less of
Norma, and found that she was to be at
King's Ferry the very next day, and asked
him to come and see her on Sunday afternoon.

CHAPTEE XIA\

Little hands clapping, and little tongues clattering

And, like fowls in the farm yard, when barley is scattering,

Out came the children running.  R. Beownii?'g,

ET out of the way, Lionel ; I want
to see I '
Then you can't ! '
But I will I Mother, Lionel's so unfair !
He keeps the Illustrated all to himself, and it
wasn't brought for Iii. '

Xor for you either, Miss Tell-tale-tit. I
wouldn't be such a cry-baby if I were you.
Oh, I say, here's no end of a lark ! Look at
those blackness scuttling cff, with these other
fellows after them ! '

F 2

Where ? Oh, Lionel, do let me see ! '

There ! We'll play at that up and down
the stairs. You and the Duffer and Pes can
black your faces, and I'll give you six stairs
start. If you're caught, you'll have to pay,
mind that ! '

No, I shan't. I shall be a white man.'

No, you won't, Pat. I never saw such a
disobliging girl as you are ; you always want
to be what I am.'

Because you always take the best before
I've time to choose.'

Well, I won't play.'

'Then, don't.'

Matters, however, were as usual compromised,
and Lucy in her room, dressing for
dinner, became aware of violent and extraordinary
sounds on the landing, every now
and then culminating in a violent bang
against her door. Martin, who was always
very quiet and respectful, remarked that

the servants had abbacy told her that the
children were very masterful, more particularly
Master Lionel, and that Mrs. Russell
found it difficult to manage him, though she
could not make up her mind to send him to
a regular school, and he and his sister, Miss
Patricia, went every day to some lady in
Eivermouth.

Patricia !  What a name ! ' said Lucy,
with a little frown, feeling that a small house
full of noisy children was more than she had
bargained for. ' Thank you, Martin ; you
may go. I suppose there will be a bell or
something, but if not, you must come and
tell me when dinner is ready.'

She stood at the window for some time
after this, looking out, even her mind  which
was not receptive of impressions of natural
beauty, though she could discourse learnedly
upon joyous schemes of colour, and bits of
drapery, and artistic arrangements  touched

by a dim sense of wonder at the fairness of
what lay before her. The house was built so
as to look across and up the river, which
here was hurrying down to the sea, laden
with messages from the lonely moor, from
wooded hills, and trees bending down to kiss
it as it passed, but never able to woo it to
pause one minute in its swift rush. Iow the
fret and impatience of earlier days are over,
it has Widened into an almost land-locked
harbour  steep hills shutting out the whirl of
the wind, and a bend at the river's mouth
sheltering it from fiercer rage of seas outside
where peacefully rocking on the waters lie
craft of all kind, small and great, old dismantled
black hulks, made over to the service
of King Coal, delicately-lined yachts, foreign
brigs, and every variety of little boat, among
them tiny steam-launches darting backwards
and forwards. Opposite, curled at the foot
of the steep hill, so steep that one wonders

how plough can be found to turn the rich
red earth, les the old town, its frontage of
weather-beaten, water-washed houses, black
and grey, with here and there a bit of red
roof, and green stains of sea-weed on the deep
sloping walls, with long ladders let down
them, as the only means of getting from the
doorways to the boats clustered beneath.
The church tower lies a little back, and on
this August evenings there creeps round it a
soft haze of smoke from the houses. Beyond
this are purple mists, and against it rise
sharply the masts of the ships in the harbour.
Lucy's eyes, having taken this in with a
certain sense of satisfaction, began to smile as
they travelled up the river, and lie reflected
that Marlham and George Lawrence were
certainly not far away. She did not doubt
that she would see him next day, and she
hastily ran over some of the things she
intended to say, and imagined his answers.

This is often an interesting exercise, and it
occupied lier until she became aware of a
struggle and loud breathing outside her door,
together with the fitful sound of a bell, which
appeared to be grasped and gagged whenever
it began to tinkle. Suspecting this to mean
dinner, she opened the door, and found Lionel,
Patricia, and another little girl engaged in
speechless combat over the dinner-bell, which,
in the momentary lull produced by her appearance,
Lionel triumphantly seized, and
rang with both hands until she was almost
deafened.

She put both hands to her ears, half
laughing.

Oh, you dreadful children, stop, stop I
Do you suppose I am deaf? '

Mother told me to do it,' said Patricia in
an injured tone.

Lionel did not trouble himself to retaliate,
he merely continued to ring the bell as violently

as he could over his head, eyed
enviously by his sisters.

Wliy do you put on another frock ? '
demanded Peg, holding Lucy's hand, and
swinging downstairs. ' Mother doesn't.'

Much you know ! ' said Pat contemptuously.
' Mother close when there's anybody
here she cares about. She's put one on today,'
she explained to Lucy, 'because it's
your first night. I don't suppose she will
tomorrow.'

Here they reached the drawing-room, into
which Lionel precipitated himself, still ringing
his bell.

'Lionel, Lionel,' cried his mother, rushing
upon him distractedly, ' what are you
thinking of? Put down that horrid thing !
Patricia, take it away ; I told you that you
were to rins the dinner-bell, and it does seem
hard that you will not do what you are told.
Lucy, I hope you will not mind these dreadful

children. I hope they will behave better with
you than, I am sorry to say, is generally the
case. They make me quite ashamed of them.'

'The Duffer has just broken a pane of
glass,' remarked Lionel unconcernedly.

'Yes, mother, he put his head straight
through,' said Patricia in confirmation.

Is he much cut ? ' demanded Mrs. Eussell
anxiously.

Oh, he's howling,' returned Lionel, ' of
course ! Mary's plastering it up. I don't
suppose it's worse than usual. Get out of
that, Peg ! '

Mrs. Eussell was a disjointed, anxious-looking
woman, dio, standing much in awe of
her husband, when he died had remitted the
laws of discipline which guided the household
so effectually, that she had never been able to
get them together again. Lucy, it must be
owned, remembered little about her ; there
had been a long gap in their intercourse

before the effusive letter which had produced
this visit. She congratulated herself, as she
looked round her, that she had not fallen into
Norma's suoorestion of leaving Martin behind.

CO o

The dinner was not very successful, and was
broken in upon by raids of the irrepressible
Lionel. But after the last of these had been
effectively satisfied, there was a little time of
peace, which Lucy utilised.

I think your view is quite lovely, Lena,'
she said emphatically. ' I have always heard
a great deal about the beauty of this place,
and I am looking forward immensely to seeing
the neighbourhood.'

Yes, it is pretty,' said Mrs. Eussell, with
that air of modest depreciation Which dwellers
in good scenery put on, as if the beauty were
a personal attribute. 'But, my dear, it is
very far away, and I am terribly afraid that
you will find it very dull.'

Oh, no, I am never dull,' returned Lucy.

Besides, I dare say I shall discover that you
have delightful neighbours. I have a theory
that nice people live in nice places.'

'I don't know, I am sure,' said Mrs.
Eussell vaguely. 'I never thought of it in
that light. And the children occupy me so
much '

Ah, the children  I mean to make you
take a little hoHday from the children,' said
Lucy lightly. ' They and I shall fall out if
they exact too much from you.'

Poor little Alan is always breaking something,'
pursued Mrs. Eussell, without taking
much notice of these remarks. ' It seems as
if he could not help it, but you don't know
how inconvenient it is at times. I never feel
quite safe.'

By the way,' said Lucy, ' we met a
gentleman this year who must live somewhere
about here. I wonder if you know the name
Lawrence ? '

Of course,' said Mrs. Paissell, with much
interest. ' Of course I It must be Mr. George
Lawrence. His father is the rector of Marl-ham,
a village on the other side of the river.'

Oh, then, he will never come across,' said
the girl with a laugh.

You forget the ferry. We are not so cutoff
from each other as all that. Why, Lionel
and Patricia go every day to Mrs. Adams in
Eivermouth. She is a perfect treasure of a
teacher.'

Well,' said Lucy, ' if the Lawrencess don't
really Hve a hundred miles away, I dare say he
will soon come and look me up, for he knows
I'm in the neighbourhood.'

'Yes; or if he does not come, we might
arrange something  we might go to Marlham
by the steamer, and call on Mrs. Lawrence.
Lionel always likes so much to go on the
river, and we might choose a half-holiday.
I know he and Patricia will both want to

come  Major Macarthy makes so much of
them.'

Who is Major Macarthy ?'

'Oh, the nicest man in the world ! He is
Mr. Lawrence's brother-in-law, and I suppose
he is dreadfully extravagant and reckless, but
then his good-nature is quite wonderful. The
children adore him ; I am always quite happy
when Lionel is with him. I know he is safe.'

Oh,' said Lucy, considering ; ' that is
Major Macarthy?'

Yes. He lives on at the rectory ; I don't
know that he has any settled home, and
people do say that Mrs. Lawrence dislikes his
being there so constantly, but then people
will always say anything, and I am sure he
must be a delightful person to have in the
house.'

And Miss Lawrence ? What is Miss Lawrence
like ? '

Oh, she is rather a handsome girl, but

not very sociable. The children don't care
about her.'

Lucy gathered together as many facts
and theories about the Lawrence family as
Mrs. Eussell had to bestow, taking more precautions
in the gathering than were at all
necessary, since her friend was the most unsuspecting
woman in the world, and when
Lucy excused herself from going to a children's
service at River mouth on the next afternoon,
had no other thought than that it was a pity
she should lose the chance of hearing Lionel
distinguish himself by one of his brilliant
answers, which it must be owned had been
known to embarrass the clergyman.

When they had gone Lucy opened the
window wider than it was in the habit of
being opened, placed the two most comfortable
chairs in the room at a izood conversational
angle, provided herself with a book,
and sat down in one of the chairs. She was

anxious that Lawrence should come, anxious
to note his face and manner when he saw her,
but her heart did not quicken its beats by
one throb when she heard a ring, and then
immediately his voice in the hall.

His greeting quite satisfied her, for it was
unmistakably full of pleasure.

Your letter was a complete surprise,' he
said eagerly. ' I had not reckoned upon such
welcome news, and when I heard nothing
from you I felt as if a great gap had opened
between the past month and this time.'

'Isn't it wonderful?' smiled Lucy, who
was looking her prettiest in a white dress of
a soft clinging material. George had left his
sister at home in a blue serge. ' Isn't it wonderful
? When we said good-bye, not much
more than a fortnight ago, how amazed I
should have been if any one had told me that
I should have been sitting here, talking to
you, to-day ! '

It is magic, I think,' he said. ' But tell
me, how was Dover when you left it, and how
was Mrs. Winyeatt ? '

Dover was very well, and so was Xorma,
but Xorma struck me as the busiest of the
two. She 2.5 very busy, you know.'

He was looking at her earnestly, and his
eyes asked whether she lead no fuller word
for him than this. She kept her own smiling
face unchanged.

You must give me more particulars,' he
said at last in a quiet voice.

'Oh, of course, about poor Janet's arm.
I am always forgetting that you don't know
everything. Well, Janet is radiantly happy,
engaged to Mr. Eose, without, so far as I can
see, the faintest prospect of their ever marrying.
That doesn't seem to trouble them in
the least, and Xorma is at present acting as
their guardian angel. Xorma kept her at
Calais for a fortnight.' She paused. Then, as

VOL. I. G

he was silent, she half closed her eyes, as if
considering. ' I think that's all,' she said.

'Mrs. Winyeatt did not honour me with
any word of remembrance, I siqpose?' he
asked, at the end of a minute.

I am sure she would have wished me
to say all that was kind,' exclaimed Lucy
eagerly. ' She always thought of you with
the greatest regard, as dear Paul's friend.
But, you know, she has a great many calls
upon her, and it is really difficult for her to
remember everything, poor dear, particularly
when she first comes home. I shall tell her
that I have seen you. And, perhaps,' she
added shyly, ' perhaps I may make acquaintance
with your mother and sister ? '

Nelly will drive in tomorrow,' said Lawrence,
recovering himself with an effort. 'My
mother, I am sorry to say, does not leave the
house and garden, but I hope you will come
and see her.'

'Mrs. Eussell talked of some delightful
expedition, which sounded as if you lived in
an idyllic village.'

I don't know about idyllic ; idylls have
a way of turning into prose upon close acquaintance.
But it is a picturesque place,'
he said more cheerfully, ' and I hope you
will know it well before long, though I can't
expect to make your stay as pleasant as you
made mine.'

Please don't say that,' said Lucy, with a
little conscious laugh.

He lingered, she was sure that he angered,
for some time beyond that of the ordinary
visit, and her own image filled so large a
part in her thoughts, that she really failed to
perceive that he was waiting and hungering
for a word of Norma. But it was quite true
that he was glad  very glad  to see Lucy.
She was not only closely connected with
the woman whom in his heart he held so

dear, but the experiences of this own home, its
roughnesses, its wrangling affections  perhaps,
although he was not a vain man, a chilly
sense that he was held there in but small estimation
 all these influences inclined him to
turn back to those friends with whom life had
been so different, and enjoy again the pleasant
warmth of their society. And even if he went
away with disappointment dogging his steps,
he would not give up the hope that when they
met again, some crumb, some word of comfort
miorht fall to his share.

Mrs. Eussell was much excited on her return
to hear that Mr. Lawrence had been.

How soon for him to come, and how fortunate,
how very fortunate that you were at
home, thrush I was really wishing you could
have been there to have heard Lionel. He
is the most original boy, and I was not at all
surprised to see Mr. Trevor smile. I assure
you, I smiled myself. Still, it would have

been a pity if you had missed Mr. Lawrence.
Did he say anything about his sister ? '

I think he did talk about her coming in
tomorrow.'

Oh, then I am sure he must have insisted
very strongly, for she is a dreadful person
about paying visits, and it is months since she
has been hei-e. Oh, what a crash I Poor Alan
must have broken another lamp, and it generally
happens on a Sunday ! '

Mrs. Eussell ran out of the room, looking
in again presently to console Lucy with the
information that Alan was not much hurt, and
hoping she did not mind the smell of oil,
which by this time, indeed, pervaded the
house.

But Lucy was in good spirits, and not
likely to succumb to minor disagreeable  
though always keenly conscious of them. She
employed the rest of the day in going to evening
Service, and in writing a letter to Xorma

full of delight at her surroundings. She
wrote cleverly, and touched off Mrs. Eussell
and her children with a few happy words of
description, which yet were not ill-natured.
She said she had had a most pleasant visit
from Mr. Lawrence ; he was looking exceedingly
well ; he was going to bring his sister to
call upon her the next day, and they were to
make an expedition to Marlham as soon as
possible. She was sure it was not going to beat
all dull, and that she should enjoy herself
very much, so she intended to stay for sometime.
And so on, and so on, but all m the
same strain.

Norma read the letter at breakfast, and
passed it silently to Miss Elhson.

Very satisfactory,' said Miss Elhson,
when she had folded and returned it. ' Lucy
is a delightful correspondent, she always puts
her points quite clearly. Still, 1 don't know
that she always puts my points. I used to like

Mr. Lawrence ; I should have been glad to
have heard how many nice thugs he said
about us.'

I thought he would have sent his love to
rae' said Agnes in an injured tone.

Oh, so he did, Agnes ; of course he sent it.
Don't you be disturbed. Aunt Lucy is sometimes
very absent-minded.'

Nelly Lawrence was not at all well pleased
at being required to go vrith her brother to
call upon Miss Winyeatt. At first, indeed,
she flatly' refused ; she never did pay calls, she
thought the whole system humbugging ; she
was always bored to death byMis. Eussell and
her spoilt children, and she had settled to
go out fishing with Uncle Tim. Somewhat
to her surprise, her brother quietly put all
these excuses on one side, and she found herself
obliged to yield. On another point she
met with another surprise, for when the cart
came round, he was driving.

Oh, hand over the reins, George,' she
said hastily.

Not to day, NelL'

But why not ? I always drive.'

Well,' he said good-humouredly, ' to tell
you the truth, it makes me feel rather a fool.
And as we are going into Eivermouth, I'm the
more sensitive.'

She lifted her eyebrows.

I don't see that you need mind when
Uncle Tim doesn't. And I can tell you, that
mare requires handling.'

He did not answer her, probably because
he was engaged in tucking the rug round his
knees. She glanced at him discontentedly,
though, with an odd new feeling of something
like respect, and thought he looked very
square and solid, and up to work. As they
went along, she had to own that he could
drive. It would have surprised her if she
had known that the mare was really her

brother's property ; he had bought it from his
father, but asked that the change of owners
should not be talked about.

Nelly's feelings would hardly get over it,'
he said with a laugh, though he knew that it
was the rector himself who chiefly suffered
from this evidence of fallen fortunes.

George,' said the girl, after an interval
of silence.

Yes.'

'My mother's been telling me. I don't
mean to take that hundred a year.'

I hope you'll think better of it.'

'Xo. I should hate it. I should hate the
obligation.'

You needn't look upon it in that light.
To tell you the truth, it seemed the best way
of indirectly helping my father and mother.
You know, or you ought to know, that there's
a lot of money gone  gone altogether, unless
I'm very much mistaken  and the question is

how to tide them over the difficulty. They
will accept for you what it would be bitter
for them to accept for themselves.'

'It's as bitter for me,' interrupted the
girl.

I think not, if you consider the matter.
If you had any money you would insist upon
helping them. I thought it all over, and
couldn't see any better way. Now, you see,
you can pay my mother a fixed sum towards
the housekeeping, and it will be the greatest
possible comfort to her. I hope you won't
deprive me of that satisfaction.'

She was silent, then  ' I shall hate it ! '
she repeated strongly.

Can you suggest another plan ? '

There was another silence ; Nelly sat upright,
staring at the splash board for sometime,
before she burst out defiantly 

I shall give some to Uncle Tim.'

It rests with yourself what you will do

with it,' said Lawrence gravely. 'I have
never dreamed of dictating to you how it
should be spent. If you like to give, and Tim
likes to accept  well and good ! '

She looked quickly at him.

Of course he will accept it,' she said.
Why, don't you know that he would share
his last sixpence with any of us, and he certainly
would not object to sharing mine.'

But you won't take me into any engagement
of the sort,' he said with a laugh.

Ah, you're different ; I don't know you
so well. Look out ! Oh, I say, you did that
neatly ! '

She's a fast beast, but I don't think my
father ought to drive her ; she's too nervous,
and he has a very heavy hand,' said George.

Neither by thanks nor remonstrance did
the girl again allude to the hundred pounds,
and it might be taken for granted that her
brother had gained his point But if he had

known it, it was an unlucky triumph to have
achieved just before the visit to Lucy, for
Nelly had such an immoderate dread of loss of
independence, that its immediate consequence
was to make her more brusque than ever.
Perhaps at no other time would the contrast
between the two girls have been so strongly
marked ; Lucy, with her pretty manners, her
delicate complexion, her perfectly fitting
dress ; and Nelly, severe in blue serge, rigid
with determination that no hundred or thousand
pounds a year should bribe her into
saying, or doing, or leaving unsaid and undone
anything which would have been otherwise
before. It was a struggle, or so she felt
it, for absolute life, though George would
have been amazed had he known what she
was experiencing. He had no thought whatever
of his own generosity, which indeed was
to him a very simple matter, but he was
vexed that his sister should respond so indifferently

to Lucy's advances, and it almost
forced him into a larger warmth of friendliness.
Still, there was a certain constraint about the
visit ; Mrs. Eiissell was anxiously desirous that
all should go well, but her attention had many
demands made upon it by her youngest son,
whose head seemed always inconveniently in
the way, and to act as a machine specially
formed for destruction.

Something was said about their coins; to
]liar Ih am.

Will you drive or come by water ? ' asked
Lawrence, leaning forward to speak to Lucy.

By water, certainly. Isn't that the thing
here ? To go by land would be as bad as
travelling along the Thine in the train.'

Very well, that is decided. And on what
day?'

Any day  oh, no,' replied Lucy, smiling
at Mrs. Russell ; ' it is to be a half-hoHday, isn't
it, Lena ? and I suppose half-holidays are as

they used to be, on Wednesdays and Saturdays
? Would Saturday do ? '

Why not Wednesday ? '

Well, Wednesday, then. But Lena and
Mss Lawrence must decide.'

'Nelly, you know about the tides. Is
there a steamer in the early afternoon ? '

Nelly, thus adjured, gave her information
rigidly. Lucy looked at her, and then bent
forward to say in a low voice :

I believe you rather dread such an invasion.
Will it be too much for Mrs. Lawrence

t

The girl reddened.

For my mother ? Oh no, she is always
glad to see people. She is not absolutely an
invalid ; she would wish you to come.'

I think she begged my sister to say
so,' said Lawrence, with a touch of anger in
his voice. Perhaps they all felt it a relief
when the Duffer, as his brother and sisters

called him, at this moment fell headlong, with
his head in the waste-paper basket, howled
vigorously, and was removed from the room
kicking.

I hope that Wednesday will not bring us
all,' whispered Lucy, with a mischievous smile
at Lawrence as they shook hands.

He was annoyed with his sister, and they
did not say much to each other as they went
down the hill, called a boat and crossed to the
other side, where the dog-cart was put up.
But Lawrence was not the man to let anything
' rankle, and as they drove up a steep
hill he said 

I wish you had been more cordial in
your manner to Miss Winyeatt.'

I didn't like her,' returned Xelly serenely.

'Why?'

'I don't know'  indifferently. 'Mutual
repulsion, I dare say.'

At any rate, she did not show hers.'

No, that sort of girl never does show anything
honestly.'

He began to laugh.

'Don't you think, on the whole, that
society gains by a certain reticence ? It would
take a bold man to venture into a circle of
people who marked their disapproval as plainly
as you marked it to-day. Seriously, Nell, I
shall be glad if you can reconcile it with
your conscience to be pleasant to Miss Win-yeast.'


I can't pretend,' she said ; ' it's all a
sham.'

Not at all'

But it is ; it must be, when you want
me to profess to be different from what I
am.'

'Who talked about professing? I was
suggesting that you might be different,'
returned Lawrence in a matter-of-fact tone.

Nelly looked at him, and then broke into a
laugh.

Oh, George,' she said appreciatively,
you scored that very neatly ! I must tell
Uncle Tim.'

VOL. IL H

CHAPTER XY.

Where the soil is rich and ruddy, though perhaps a trifle
muddy
Where the earliest and latest of our flow'rets may he seen,
There, sequestered from the surly sea-winds' angry hurly-burly.
Lies the house, apart and sheltered, set in frame of pastures
ofreen.

HEY were about a mile from the
rectory when they saw a figure before
them, going in the same direction.
Nelly immediately became excited.

That's Uncle Tim ! Make haste, George,
and overtake him.'

On nearer approach she gave a peculiar
cry, upon which the figure stopped. It was
then evident that he was carrying a dog under
his arm.

What have you got there P ' asked Lawrence,
pulling up.

Oh, it's hurt ! ' cried Nelly, precipitating
herself on the ground.

'I'll put him in with you, if you don't
mind,' said Major Macarthy cheerfully. 'I
suspect the poor brute belonged to some
caravan or other, and got run over, and left
behind. I picked him up in the road, and I
dare say we can soon doctor him up. Lie still,
you poor Httle misery ; nobody's going to
torment you,' he added, settling the frightened
animal with a touch as gentle as a woman's.

You haven't improved your coat I ' said
Xelly reproachfully.

'Don't say so, or I shall be ruined
entirely! But never mind, we'll sponge it
when wee get home. Up with you, Xelly, and
I'll take a hft behind, if George has no objection.
Where have you been, Xell ? '

To pay an odious visit to Mrs. Eussell, at

King's Ferry. I do hate visits, with everyone
sitting Hke pokers.'

Was I a poker ? ' put in Lawrence, with
a laugh.

'Of course,' said Nelly staring. 'That's
what one always feels like.'

It is a curious fact, which may be remarked
in passing, that the persons who paralyse
others by their stiffness are those who complain
most loudly of the formality of society.

The return visit is to come off on Wednesday,'
said George.

And those dreadful children are coming.'

Oh, but that's a fine little boy,' pleaded
the major. ' He's really very intelligent, and
I'll take him down to the Creek, and he'll be
quite happy. How's the dog getting on, and
what shall we call him, Nell ? '

Then you mean to keep him ? He isn't
much to look at,' Lawrence said.

He's as ugly a little brute as I ever saw ;

no one will cry out to have him,' returned
the other, laughing. ' Oh yes, we shall have
to keep him, shan't we, Nell ? and to find
him a name. I've tried all I could think of,
but I've never hit on the right one.'

When they reached the rectory, he took
as much trouble about the animal as if it had
been his own for years, not leaving him until
his hurts had been thoroughly bathed, and
he, lying snugly coiled up in a basket in a
corner of the stable. He was an ugly little
white terrier, very humble and grateful, and
apparently scarcely able to believe in the
reality of this turn of Fortune's wheel, which
took him out of kicks and starvation to land
him in a home of bones and kind words.

Toby  that will be as good a name as
any,' Nelly said ; and no one proposing anything
more suggestive, Toby he remained.

When the steamer appeared, George Lawrence
and Major Macarthy were on the 

to welcome their guests, and the
major had even proposed that to do it the
more royally they should go out in the ferryboat.
But this Lawrence negatived.

One needn't go to one's extremest limits,'
he said protestingly ; ' the ferry-boat Avould bethe
last step of attention ; it would be impossible
to do more if '

If you were engaged,' said the major with
brisk interest. Lawrence looked at him in
amazement. ' T don't mean that you are,'
added the other hurriedly.

'I? To Miss Winyeatt? No, indeed,
Tim.'

I wonder, though, that you haven't
brought home a wife. You're a very good
fellow, and would have no difficulty in finding
some one ; and if your income was not
quite sufficient, I could put you in the way of
doubling it. I could indeed, my dear fellow.
Only this morning '

But the boat was in, and the next moment
the major was helping with all his might to
pull her close to the stones, quite indifferent
to the fact that he was himself standing in two
or three inches of water. Lionel's first feat
was to seize the boat and rock it with violence
as his mother and Lucy were getting out ; he
was grasped by Lawrence, but slipped away
like an eel, and attached himself boisterously
to Major Macarthy.

Never mind,' said Lucy, recovering her
balance cleverly. ' Oh, is this a real village,
or is it only a play place ? '

The hill is real enough, and so is the mud.
Has Mrs. Eussell prepared you for all the
hardships you are called upon to encounter
when you come and take pity upon rural
acquaintances ? '

She did not half tell me how delightful it
was. Lena !  no, never mind, she will trot
along quite comfortably with Major Macarthy

and those dreadful children. I assure you I
did my best to spare you that infliction, but it
was impossible. The house revolves round
their fancies. Oh, what a charming hill! 
what fascinating cottages climbing up and up !
Mr. Lawrence, we had nothing like this at
Dover.'

He said, in a much graver tone than she
had used, ' Hadn't you ? I shall always think
very kindly of Dover.'

Shall you ? I'm very glad,' she said,
flashing a smiling look at him. ' Norma and
I both thought you were so very good and
patient to put up as you did with our little
amusements.'

 Norma and I ! ' He could not think of
anything else. 'Have you heard from Mrs.
Winyeatt since I saw you ? ' he said at last.

No. She is too busy a person to be a
good correspondent.' Lucy stopped to smell
a rose which hung over a stone wall. ' Mr.

Lawrence, it is no use denying it, you are
idyllic ! Why wasn't I born to live in a village
Hkethis?'

You might find it circumscribed,' said
Lawrence briefly.

But she would not be put off by any dispraise.
She talked to the children, and the
old women, and by the time they reached the
top of the hill she had quite a gay little
nosegay stuck into her belt, of the flowers she
had most admired.

A pleasant-spoken young lady,' said Mrs.
Evans, stepping out into the road to look after
her.

Who be her ? '

Dun' know. Somebody Master George
be taken up with  I'll be born'. See how
her looks up to un, like a blackbird to a
cherry.'

Well, now,' said an old woman in a sprigged
lilac sun bonnet, 'if 'twere me, I'd sooner

marry the major. He's older, for certain, but
what's that ? He's a fine man an' free and
open-handed, an' I've a said many a time, an'
I'll say it again, his wife weed be a lucky
woman. Why, their, my old man, afore he
died, lie wor alway's a tellin' about the major.
He does me more good than the passion," he
said, " more good than the passion." You mind,
Eliza Anne, don't 'ee? Them was his very
words, and he up with his stick as he said 'em.'
Mrs. Lawrence was in the drawing-room
to receive her visitors. It was not such a
pleasant room as the study, which, in spite of
shabby leathers, had a homely and comfortable
air, whereas the drawing-room looked bare
and forbidding. At least, this was what
Lawrence felt ; he had a curiously perturbed
sensation in bringing in Lucy to his mother,
as if Norma had something to do with the
introduction, and his manner was just sufficiently
stirred to add a conviction to Mrs. Law-pence's

suspicions, which had been roused by
Nelly. This gave her own a touch of nervous
anxiety, and she looked very searchingly into
Lucy's face. The girl was too much taken up
with thoughts of herself to be sensitive to this
little vibration of feeling between the two
others, but she was prepared to be pleased,
and liked Mrs. Lawrence's welcome. She was
prettier than the mother had expected, for
George Lawrence had not spoken of her appearance,
and Nelly merely remarked that she
was not bad-looking. But Mrs. Lawrence was
immediately aware that if her features did
not produce that effect of absolute beauty
which sometimes seems to depend on no more
than a hair's-breadth, her light hair, and the
beauty of her complexion, freshened, but not
reddened, by the walk, were quite sufficiently
attractive to give substance to all that had
been floating through the elder woman's mind.
It was very good of you to come,' she

said. 'It is good of any one to face our
terrible hill, which I remember very well,
though I have not seen it for a long time. It
is a great bar between us and the world.'

It is delightfully original ! ' said Lucy
brightly, ' and at last I feel that I have been
shown a real Devonshire village. Part of one,
that is, for Mr. Lawrence has promised to introduce
me presently to a great deal more.'

Lawrence at this moment was talking to
Mrs. Eussell, and his mother drew her chair a
little nearer to the girl.

I am very pleased to see you,' she said
earnestly, ' because George has spoken more
than once of his stay at Dover, and of his
friends there, and I am always glad when
he finds pleasure in his own country. He is
terribly given to love of roving, which is a
great snare to a young man.'

Ah, I dare say it is,' returned Lucy in a
sympathetic manner, not because she thought

SO, but because she disliked disagreeing with
any one. ' But now that you have him, you
will not let him run away very soon.'

'You must not think we wish to tie him
down here. I know that is not to be desired.
Only I begrudge all that time spent
in travelling, which seems to do no good to
any one.'

'When next he shows signs of breaking
away, you must let us know, and we will entrap
him at Dover,' Lucy answered gaily.

Had you met George before ? '

My sister-in-law, Mrs. Winyeatt, is an old
friend, you know. He was with them in
Eome when her husband died.'

The mother did not know, but did not say
so ; she was always a little jealous of others
being better acquainted with the doings of
those she loved than she was herself At this
point the rector came in and sat down by
Lucy.

I thought I heard the children,' he said,
looking round.

Yes, poor little things, I brought them,'
put in Mrs. Eussell ; 'and that kind Major
Macarthy has taken them off to the Creek.'

Mrs. Lawrence could not resist a foreboding
 ' I hope he will not let them tumble in.'

Pooh, pooh ! ' said the rector. ' Tim is
as safe as an old nurse. Don't you be frightened,
Mrs. Eussell ; don't you be frightened.'

No, indeed,' said Mrs. Eussell, recovering
herself obediently. 'I always feel quite at
ease with Major Macarthy.'

Mrs. Lawrence shrugged her shoulders,
but her son came over to Lucy.

If you cared to begin the great work of
exploring now,' he said, 'we might satisfy
Mrs. Eussell, and come back to tea in the
garden. That's what you propose, mother,
isn't it?'

There was nothing which Lucy would not

have found agreeable ; she was quite aware that
Mrs. Lawrence looked at her with interest,
and since the most ingenious vanity could
hardly have supposed that interest to proceed
from anything purely personal, she was able
to argue with truth that it originated in the
mother's anxiety to learn something of the
girl for whom her son cared.

So the four set forth with the purpose
of showing Miss Winyeatt more thatched
cottages, and flowers, and distant views of the
winding river and the far-off moor : and Mrs.
Lawrence, resting her chin in the palm of her
hand, and supporting her elbow by the other
hand, walked thoughtfully up and down the
room. She had not forgotten her son's acknowledgment
that there was a woman whom
he desired to make his vife, and who  she
had gathered  did not return his feelings ;
and she did not dream of supposing Lucy to
be that woman, because it appeared to her

very evident that the girl liked him, and had
come into the neighbourhood for the very-purpose
of being near him. But, though she
lived out of the world, she had gathered
enough from books, or from that instinct of
women which is, probably, hereditary, to
know that hearts are very often caught on
the rebound. She put down George's present
frame of feeling  which, it will be seen, she
took for granted on but slender evidence 
as springing out of this law of nature, and
having quickly satisfied herself as to the thing
itself, and the steps which led up to it, she
spent a good deal more time upon the
question of Lucy's worthiness. It would
have been impossible to have satisfied her
wholly, but that is not an unusual drawback
with mothers of only sons, and she confessed
that the girl was pretty-looking, and had pleasant
manners. Nor was there any touch of
sordid meanness in her wish that she might

bring with her a fortune, for since George's
generosity to his father, she had earnestly
desired that he might in some way be compensated,
and the only way which ever presented
itself to her mind was for him to
marry. Here was a girl, pretty, attractive,
sensible  if only to these qualities she added
a moderate fortune, Mrs. Lawrence felt that
she should be thankfully taken to their
hearts.

When they all came back, tea was spread
upon the lawn, with a little more nicety and
finish than was common at the rectory. The
party had visited the stables on their way
back, and brought with them Toby, now sufficiently
recovered to endure a little rough
petting from the children. Mrs. Eussell was
more impressed than ever with the delightfulness
of Major Macarthy, and the promptitude
with which he had rescued Lionel from
various dangers ; she poured out her ad-vol.

II. I

miration with effusion to Mrs. Lawrence, who
listened coldly.

Yes,' she said at last, ' he is very much
of a boy himself. Tell me, have you known
Miss Winyeatt long ? '

Oh, for a great many years. We lost
sight of each other for a good while,' said
Mrs. Eussell, with a sigh which might be taken
as a tribute to her marriage or to any other
of her many trials, ' and I was so pleased the
other day to get the nicest letter from her !
I asked her to come to me at once.'

And has she a father and mother ? ' asked
Mrs. Lawrence, not without shame at her
own innocent duplicity.

No, indeed, poor dear ! She lives with
a sister-in-law. She is very well off'  Mrs.
Eussell sighed again  ' but it seems rather
forlorn, and I should be very glad to hear
she was likely to have a home of her
own.'

Oh, there is time enough for all that,'
said Mrs. Lawrence, hastily plunging yet
farther into the meshes of deceit, for in that
short moment she had seen Lucy married and
paying her first visit to the rectory. She
exerted herself as her son had not seen her
exert herself before, and was inwardly vexed
by Nelly's indifference, promising herself to
take her to task for it.

But, in spite of Nelly, the little party" displayed
a good deal of gaiety. Lucy and the
major were invincibly good-tempered ; the
rector, pleased with the appreciation of his
parish which had just been shown, leaned
comfortably back in a basket-chair, one leg
thrown over the other, feeding Toby with
a biscuit, and forgetful of loss of income ;
Lionel and Pat, for the moment, had buried
the tomahawk under the influence of brown-bread
scones and Devonshire cream, and
George  George was perhaps the least satis -

T 2

find of the group, but even he felt himself ina
more congenial atmosphere than he had
been favoured with of late, and did not fail to
attribute it to Lucy.

Before they vent away, Mrs. Lawrence
got hold of the girl and drew her on one
side.

'My dear,' she said, 'do you think you
could put up with old-fashioned people and
such a retired place for a little while ?
Because, if you could, perhaps you would
come and spend some time with us ? '

Lucy's eyes grew large with delight.
Oh, Mrs. Lawrence ! '

There are very few inducements that we
can offer,' said the mother  hypocritically,
since she had a firm conviction that the girl
would find George's presence quite sufficient
inducement, ' but it is a pretty country, and
new to you ; and if the weather is only fine,
George and Nelly can drive you about to

some of the places worth seeing. Think it
over and let me know.'

Xo, I can't waste any time in thinking ;
and besides, I should be afraid of your changing
your mind,' cried Lucy. ' Please let me
say at once that I will come.'

Very well, then, that is settled,' returned
Mrs. Lawrence, well satisfied, and kissing her
an unusual action on her part ; ' you have
only to write and say on what day you wish
your room to be ready.'

The visit had tried her a good deal, but it
had pleased her more than anything that had
happened of late. Her conclusions had been
formed rapidly  it was not in her nature to
sincerer lone over them  and she had assured
herself that not only was the marriage of her
son with Lucy desirable, but that it must inevitably
take place ; and as she was a person
of active impulses, it was a satisfaction to her
to have something to do with drawing them

together. Incapacitated as she was for much
which she would have gladly done, and
(though she could not complain) inwardly
vexed at this withdrawal being accepted by
her family as a matter of course, she was the
more glad when she could feel herself taking
part in action once more, and she really
enjoyed the amazement of her husband and
daughter.

Asked her to stay ! ' exclaimed the rector.
What on earth are you going to do with her,
Fanny?'

I do think it's the most awful bore ! ' said
Nelly discontentedly.

Besides,' pursued the rector, with a lively
sense that he now could take the whip hand
of his wife, ' I understood that economy was
to be the order of the day; and it looks a
little contradictory to have visitors here who
will want all sorts of fiddle-saddles. Eh?
However  do as you like. I've nothing to

say against the girl. I shall turn her over to
Tim.'

For pity's sake, mr. Lawrence, don't
thrust your brother-in-law upon her!' said
his wife, putting out her hands as if to repel
a disagreeable subject. Her husband suddenly
looked at her with a little uneasy
sadness.

How prejudiced you women are ! ' he
said, in an odd tone, unlike his usual rather
loud assertions. ' Poor old Tim ! '

Well, we need not say anything about
him,' said i\lrs. Lawrence hastily. 'He is
your guest, and now Miss Winyeatt will be
mine.'

Certainly,' replied the rector, turning his
back and going out of the room. Mrs. Lawrence
looked after him.

Your father does not seem quite himself,'
she said, almost against her will.

Oh, it's nothing ! ' returned Xelly.

We're both of us annoyed when you run
down Uncle Tim  that's all' She was following,
when her mother called her back.

I' wish you would exert yourself more
when people are here,' she said.

'What on earth am I to do? I haven't
got any small talk.'

Oh, that's nonsense ! I suppose you have
as much as others ? Miss Winyeatt is a very
nice girl, and you really must try to make
her stay here pleasant. I have a particular
reason for wishing it.'

Oh, mother, you're an unblushing matchmaker
! You want her to marry George.'

She will be a very lucky girl if she
does.' T

That's as people think,' said the girl,
lifting her eyebrows.

'You ought to be the first to think it,
considering how generously he has behaved
to you,' said Mrs. Lawrence warmly. ' How

few brothers would have acted as he has
acted ! '

Nelly wriggled uneasily. ' I've nothing to
say against George,' she burst out at last. ' I
believe he's a good fellow, though I don't
pretend to understand him. But as for that
miserable hundred a year, if it's going to be
thrown in my face, I'd sooner pitch it into the
river ! I shall tell George so.'

Mrs. Lawrence took no notice of this tirade,
leaving her daughter to digest her remonstrances,
and determined that so far as it
rested with herself, Lucy's visit should have
neither difficulties nor disagreeable thrown
in its way. The more she reflected on the
matter, the more convinced she became that
everything pointed with admirable directness
to the path George should take. If his
deepest love had been given elsewhere, it had
not been fortunate, that much she had
gathered from himself; most men had to go

through one or more of such experiences, and
as she had convinced herself that he had, at
any rate, a certain degree of king for Lucy,
she was certain that it might soon be nursed
into something warmer, and prepared to
provide the opportunities. She would have
liked to have said something to her son, but
though she would not have allowed it  he
was not an easy person to extract anything
from, and she dared not venture far. She
only said, as he lit her candle for her that
night 

I like Miss Winyeatt, George.'

Ah, I thought you would. There's something
about her very pleasant,' he agreed.

And I hope you approved of my asking
her to stay here ? '

I'm very glad, if you and my father don't
find it a bore. She and  mrs. Winyeatt were
thoroughly hospitable when I was at Dover.'

His voice lingered for a second upon

Norma's name, but his mother was too much
preoccupied with her own idea to perceive it.
She repeated 

jS'o, I like her ; I am sure we shall all
enjoy her visit,' and then, as he said no more,
went slowly upstairs, stopping on the first
landing to regain her breath.

CHAPTER XVI.

Sick children fret their mothers' hearts to shreds.

Jean Ingelgw.

Visit and invitation were duly chronicled,
duly and enthusiastically, in
Lucy's letter  this time to Janet
Somerville. Janet was in that condition of
radiant happiness which, when it falls to amiable
people, causes them to long that it should
be extended to all they care about. She gave
the letter, with a little laugh, to Isabel when
she came in, and watched her read it.

Well ? ' she said eagerly as her sister laid
it down.

Oh, well,' repeated Isabel discontentedly,
Lucy is always lucky ! I suppose she intends
to marry Mr. Lawrence, and that all those
hints she gave meant something. I think she
might have been very well content here.'

I don't know,' returned the experienced
Janet ; ' of course life with Mrs. Winyeatt must
be perfectly charming, but you don't know 
oh, Isabel, I do so wish you were as happy as
I am ! Often when I think about it, I feel so
dreadfully selfish and wicked not to be able
to share it with you ! '

There was a gleam of tears in her eyes
as she said this, so that Isabel was touched,
though she made haste to repudiate the idea
that Mr. Rose would have done for her.

You couldn't be selfish, Janet,' she said,
giving her sister a quick kiss, ' and don't be a
little goose and distress yourself. I'm not like
you. I couldn't have engaged myself  to
Mr. Eose,' she was going to say, but changed it

into ' for such a long waiting. I haven't
the patience.'

No  o,' said Janet doubtfully, ' I suppose
not. You must meet some one very handsome,
very rich  only he must be as good as
Walter, or I shan't give my consent  and then
you must be married at once, as I dare say
Lucy will be. I said so to Mrs. Winyeatt.'

'And what did she say?' asked Isabel
curiously. ' I don't know that you ought to
say that sort of thing, Janet.'

Oh, I can't help it with her ! She's so
dear, I'm obliged to tell her whatever is in
my mind. But she didn't let me go on. She
said she didn't think it fair on Lucy to discuss
possibilities which she has not talked about
herself.'

Lucy would not mind our discussing
them, if that were all,' said the more astute
Isabel. ' I think she likes it.'

She's nice, but she isn't to be compared

With my dear !Mrs. Winyeatt ! ' cried Janet
enthusiastically.

Oil, if you once begin about Mrs.
Winyeatt ! '

Well, Isabel, you know she's perfectly
lovely. There's no one like her.'

Isabel was wandering about the room,
touching this, that, and the other restlessly.
She was a dark handsome girl, with a little
pucker on her forehead, caused by a trick she
had of frowning when she laughed.

I know one thing,' she said presently ; ' I
wish we were as rich as Mrs. Winyeatt. I get
fretted to death with this perpetual worrying
and fussing over every penny. It is so hard
on us to suffer as we do for Mervin's extravagance.
And he does not feel it half as much,
for he has a periodical row, and gets it over ;
whereas I have the same fuss and scolding
over and over again, every week when the
bills come in.'

Poor father ! He has the worst of it,
after all ! ' said Janet softly.

'Well,' sighed the elder girl, 'I can't
understand how, with your eyes open, you
can choose the same sort of thing to go on all
your life. I do hope to get out of it some
day, I'm sure I should go mad if I didn't ; but
you're content to marry Walter Eose, who
never can have more than twopence-halfpenny
a year. Do you ever consider how you will
have to scrape ? '

Janet smiled and sighed.

I aren't think too much about it, because
it seems such happiness. I don't deserve anything
so good. Oh, Isabel, you don't know
Walter ! '

The other girl opened her mouth to speak,
and closed it again. Then she sat down at
the piano, and said to a running accompaniment,
' It's your own business; don't be afraid
of my interfering. Are you going to stay on

here ? I'm not sorry you should, because of
course you have wanted some extra things,
and how I should have got them out of the
house allowance, I don't know.' She added
bitterly  ' Being ill is a luxury which should
be confined to the rich.'

Oh, Isabel,' cried Janet, with tears in
her eyes, ' it does seem hard that I should
have aU the good things ! '

'I'm not envious, I assure you,' said her
sister, with quick repudiation of Mr. Eose.
Don't think I begrudge you any thing, not
even your broken arm. But  shall you stay ? '

'If you really don't want me. Miss Ellison
has gone home, and Mrs. Winyeatt pretends
that she will be very lonely if I leave her.
Of course, that is all her kindness.'

Isabel assured her again that she had
better remain where she was. As she was
going out of the room, she looked back to
say

VOL. IL K

Let me know if you hear anything more
about Lucy. I shan't get that new dress I
was talking about if there's any chance of my
having to be bridesmaid.'

Soon after luncheon, Mrs. Winyeatt came
into the drawing-room, and joined Janet, who
was standing on the balcony. The sea was unusually
still, a beautiful even greyness spread
over sky and water, broken only by one short
sharp dazzling line of white just below the
horizon. A heavy collier with grimy sails
was beating up to the harbour, and there was
a constant roar and scrape of waves breaking
and dragging back on the shingly beach.
Higher up a fishing-boat was being drawn up
by a windlass, and a crowd collecting to seethe
shining spoils. Norma stood and looked
at it silently, with a troubled yearning in her
beautiful eyes. Then she turned impulsively
to Janet.

Such a sea as that makes one feel how

small one is, makes one ashamed of all one's
foolish little frets and discontents ! You don't
feel it yet, Janet, but some day you will, and
then you will find out how good it is to sweep
cobwebs away from our dusty selves.'

But the sea  the sea is so big ! ' said the
young girl, shrinking.

One wants something big. Don't you
often feel how small the things are on
which we set our thoughts ? Then to see a
mighty force like that, true to its laws, made
to work for the world's good  it seems to rest
one. I don't feel so weak when I see great
powers at work, because they help one to
realise what one has to fall back upon. Aren't
you often conscious of being dreadfully small
yourself, Janet ? '

Oh, I might be, but you couldn't, dear
;Mrs. Winyeatt ! '

Oh,' cried Xorma impulsively, ' how little
you know! If one had a larger love, things

K 2

would be so much easier, it would be Happiness
to give up one's own will, and now  now
it is very hard. That's a proof in itself of
how small I am. Don't think of me in that
way, Janet,' she added humbly, ' think of meas
very weak; even when what is right is quite
plainly shown, I haven't the moral courage to
keep to it.'

'Dear Mrs. Winyeatt !' repeated the girl,
laying her cheek softly against her friend's
arm, and awed by this unusual confidence.
Astoria was silent for a moment, then said
suddenly 

I am not quite happy about Agnes, she
looks so heavy-eyed and tired. I have left
her asleep in my room, and if she is not
better when she wakes, I shall send for Mr.
Kennedy.'

This was the beginning of illness. It did
not come on quickly, but a sort of low fever
took hold of the little girl, and prostrated her

completely. Norma was terribly anxious, too
anxious, indeed, to be a very good nurse, so
that the doctor got in a trained woman, and
Miss Ellison was more in the house than out
of it. But it was a bad time for them all.
Janet stayed on ; Norma said nothing, but
Miss Elhson had told her she was sure her
remaining there might be a comfort, and
these two good friends did not spare themselves.
The round of life seemed to contract
itself into a very small circle ; day by day
brought much the same things to be done,
the same watchfulness, varied only  but oh,
how much varied !  as fear or hope got the
upper hand. The passionate intensity of
Norma's affection, generally restrained in outward
signs of expression, now forced itself
through these restraints. Miss Ellison used to
look at her with anxiety, and wonder if what
they dreaded came, how she would bear it.
She did not fear her breaking down while

there was anything to be done, but she did
fear, very much, how it would be should
Agnes be taken. Once, when the little girl
was very ill, she went into Norma's bedroom
to fetch something the nurse wanted, and as she
opened the door, having had no answer to her
knocks, she heard a bitter cry, ' Oh, Paul,
Paul, I have not neglected her ! ' Miss Ellison
walked straight up to her.

Norma,' she said severely, ' if you give
way to fancies, you will not be of the smallest
use to the child when she is getting well
again. No one can have had better nursing
so far, but you are the one to whom she will
look by-and-by, and I hope to goodness you
are not going to fail us then.'

She will not get well again,' said the
mother, with a groan. But she rose up and
let fall her hands.

God knows,' said Miss Ellison gravely ;
you don't, and you've no business to

despair. Nurse wants some methylated
spirit.'

She had roused Norma, and she was not
afraid of being misunderstood. But things did
not improve  indeed they looked very grave ;
every day there was a little loss of ground,
a little drawing? nearer to the border-land.

Janet's patience and unselfishness were
very useful. She was never in the way, yet
always ready for anything that was wanted,
and the spring of happiness in her own heart
made her hopeful, when the older woman,
more used to death and to sadder things than
death, almost gave up hope. The two were
together one evening in the drawing-room.
It had been a wet wild day, gusts of wind and
rain rushed angrily against the house, and in
the intervals between the air seemed full of
sound, the hoarse roar of the great sea.
Janet had made them close the shutters early,
and light a fire ; she hoped that if Norma

came in, the cheerful light and warmth might
be pleasant to her. But Norma did not leave
the sick room, it was Miss Ellison who appeared
instead. She looked very grave and
very tired, and as she stood silently by the
fire, Janet took her hand softly and smoothed
it with ready sympathy. Miss Ellison turned
and smiled.

What should we do without you in the
house, Janet ? You don't know how good it
is to have a background comforter, always
ready to be fallen back upon. You are a
lesson to me ; for though I believe nature has
given me a good will, it is an aggressive goodwill,
it is always poking itself to the front.'

You say that,' said Janet smiling. ' But
I am not quite a goose ; I know what your
good will is worth.'

So do I  that's the worst of it. Janet, I
am afraid things are as bad as they can be.
I shan't go home to-night.'

Do you mean ' began the girl, turning

pale. ' Oh, poor Mrs. Winyeatt I '
Yes, it will be very hard for her.'
Her only child ! Oh, how can she bear it ? '
The two were silent for some minutes.
They sat staring into the fire, while outside
the wind shook the windows. Then bliss
Ellison put the question, ' Did you see Lucy's
letter this afternoon ? '
Yes,' Janet answered.
And what did she say ? '
She was dreadfully sorry, of course.
Perhaps  I don't know  perhaps she doesn't
quite understand how very bad it is ? '
Does she speak of coming back ? '
Yes, she said she had thought of it, and
had more than half a mind to come, but then
she reflected that it would be only selfishness,
for the house had enough people in it already,
and she might be in the way. I am afraid it
is my being here which has kept her away.'

Oh no, my dear said Miss Ellison, with
a smile, ' it is her being there. By the way,
where is she ? '

She was just going to stay with Mr. Lawrence's
father and mother.'

Ah!'

I am very sorry,' said Janet heartily ; ' it
would have been so charming for her to be
there under any other circumstances, and
now it must all be spoilt by her anxiety ! '

We will hope that she does not, as you
say, quite understand,' said Miss Ellison dryly.
But I don't know why we should be particularly
prodigal of our sympathy over this second
visit ? What should have made it so delightful '

Janet smiled.

Now you are pretending. You know as
well as I do, that we all thought that Mr.
Lawrence liked Lucy.'

No, I don't, indeed. Who are " we all" ?
You and Isabel ? '

And you, and Mrs. Winy e at t, and ' she

checked herself.

Oh, you young imaginations, how cheerfully
you start on a career! I don't believe
Mrs. Winyeatt thinks it, and I am
sure I don't. As for your mysterious
"and," whoever that may be, advise her
not to build upon such insecure foundations.'


She spoke with energy The girl looked
blankly at her and then laughed.

Miss Ellison, but  I don't want to be
rude, but  indeed  I don't think you can
quite know.'

And you think your *' and " does. No,
my dear, trust me, she doesn't''

Then I am very sorry,' said Janet very
gravely, ' and  and I almost wish that Lucy
would come home. I shall tell her not to
think about the house being full, because, of
course, I could leave directly she came, and

her being here would be a comfort to Mrs
Winyeatt.'

Miss Elhson took no notice of this remark.
She leant forward to poke the fire, and said
incidentally 

I don't feel very kindly towards Mr. Lawrence.
After all the hospitality that was
shown him, and considering his old acquaintanceship,
he should have given some sign of
sympathy in this trouble.'

'Lucy said that he seemed very sorry,'
replied the girl eagerly.

But he sent no message ? '

'No, there was no message.'

Then I am disappointed in him. It is
heartless. Though perhaps if Lucy does
not realise it thoroughly, she does not allow
her friends to do so either. I shall put it
down to that ; I shall not give up Mr.
Lawrence yet. How it rains ! Now I shall
try to get Norma out of the room. My only

chance of doing it was to come away first
myself.'

But Xorma would not leave the little girl.
To all Miss Ellison's arguments and entreaties
she answered by a mute gesture of refusal.
Sometimes Miss Ellison, sometimes the nurse
dozed off, but the mother always sat there
alert, watchful, her yearning eyes fixed on the
little cropped head that moved restlessly upon
the pillows, now and then murmuring some
tender soothing word, then silent, silent as
death itself, silent with an almost sickening
longing for the sleep which was such a little
common thing, yet which now seemed almost
the greatest thing in all the world, the sleep
which a king's ransom could not buy, the
sleep which, alas I did not come. When the
light of morning crept into the room, how
she hated it I  because night was the time
when people slept, and this intruding daylight
was here to thrust it out, and allow them all

to look pitifully at her, because the child had
not slept, and was therefore, they would say,
worse. Eor this cause she dreaded the
doctor's coming at one moment, and the next
longed for it, torn by the hope that he might
bring help, and the fear that he might rob
her of her last shred of hope.

When he came, she would not ask him,
she dared not, and he did not at once give his
opinion. When at last he did, it was not
worse, it was even, so she persuaded herself,
guardedly better ; no loss of strength, in spite
of the restless night ; a little improvement
as to temperature. And, indeed, from this
time Agnes began to mend ; by slow degrees
at first, then with the quick return of vital
power which in a child often amazes us, and
the mother's happiness was very good to see,
for it seemed as if she could not be thankful
enough, and her thankfulness took in those
who had shared her trouble. She was like a

girl again. Agnes, one day, propped in a
great arm-chair, looked at her in wonder.

I don't think your eyes used to be so
bright, mother,' she said dreamily at last.

I am sure they weren't,' said Norma.
kissing her.

What makes them so ? '

Being glad,' her mother answered. And,
indeed, there was good ground for the little
girl's observation.

But, before this, one day Xorma was walking
back with Miss Ellison to her house. The
day was fine, but there was a high wind which
drove clouds of foam over the little jetty
running out here and there for the use of fishermen,
and grey gulls were flying with will
cries about the white cliffs.

'And Lucy is at the Lawrencess?' Miss
Elhson was saying.

Yes. Mary ! '

'Well?'

I want you to put out of your head all
that foolish talk you and I had at Calais. I
have seen very clearly of late that it was both
foolish and based upon an altogether mistaken
idea, and I am very much ashamed
that I should ever have  have let you imagine
more than existed.'

Oh ! ' returned Miss Elhson. ' But let me
understand. What has given you this clearness
of vision ? '

A return of common sense, I suppose,'
Norma replied impatiently. 'No, I believe
that when I came face to face with a great
reality, imaginary feelings dropped off.'

Norma, I don't think real love should be
called imaginary.'

This could not have been real.'

Do you say that because he has made no
sifijn of life in all this trouble ? '

Neither now nor before. He left Dover
without leavings so much as a word of farewell

 that was too abrupt. And now  I
thought at least he cared a little for Agnes ! '

'Perhaps you never received the word,'
suggested the other woman slowly.

Mary ! ' In the heat of her indignation,
Norma stood still. ' When you say things
like that I wonder how we can ever be friends !
Lucy has her faults, but she is not false.'

Did I mention her name ? ' asked Miss
Ellison meekly. ' Well, no doubt it is as you
say. Mr. Lawrence is the one to blame' 
she glanced at Norma ; but Norma was
looking straight before her  ' and I am
glad that you have not allowed it to trouble
you.'

I ought not perhaps to let you suppose
that,' said Norma in a very low voice, ' for I
do think about it more than I should. But I
have learnt a lesson, and in that time when
Agnes was so ill, I thought I had learnt it
thoroughly. Since then, it has come back a

VOL. II. L

little, but  give me time, Mary,' she added
hastily.

You are the most honest-hearted woman
I know,' commented Miss Elhson inwardly.
All that she said aloud was  ' Well, don't let
your anxiety to learn lessons make you either
morbid or unjust. Is Lucy enjoying herself
very much ? '

Very much. She likes the Lawrencess,
and does not talk of coming away.'

Miss Elhson stopped to look down at a
sheet of tumbling waves.

'If she and Mr. Lawrence are going to
marry, I only hope they will make haste
about it. It is another proof, if I ever
needed one,' she said, ' that people do get
what they set their minds upon in this world,
provided '

What ? '

Oh, there is no use in my telling you ;
you would only be angry with me.'

To this Mrs. Winyeatt made no answer,
but she said presently  ' Lucy would be a
very good wife. I have never succeeded in
making her feel quite at home here, and she
]has no exact responsibility, but, thrown on
herself, and with others dependent upon her
you would see ! '

Well, I am not yet persuaded that Mr.
Lawrence is to be the worker of this metamorphosis.
If he is  he is welcome to it ! '

She was, however, more uneasy and
annoyed than she allowed herself to show, for
she had always hoped that Norma would
marry again, and this was the first time that
she had ever ventured to think it possible.
Moreover, she was sure that Lawrence would
have been the ricfht husband ; his was a strong,
sensible, cheerful yet sympathetic nature 
the qualities do not always go together, but
where they do they make an excellent whole
he would be able to appreciate Norma's

L 2

noble character, and at the same time to
check the over-sensitive and morbid tendencies
which now and then troubled the
friend to whom they were completely alien.
To say the truth, she considered Norma's
scruples about Lucy, and the idea which
doubtless possessed her that she owed some
atonement to Paul's sister, both high-flown and
absurd, but she loved her for and through all,
and longed that a richer earthly happiness
might be hers. Hitherto, she had been confident
that Mr. Lawrence would not suffer
himself to be drawn aside, but her faith inman
was at no time so strong as to be invulnerable,
and Lucy absent, presented stronger
fascinating possibilities than Lucy present,
and, it must be owned, at times exasperating.

LiS

Heaven holds her forth two mirrors,
One for truth and one for errors !
That looks hideous, fierce and frightful,
This is flattering and delightful ;
That she throws away as foul ;
Sits by this to dress her soul.  Swift.

jUCY's home letters, which described
her surroundings as both blissful and
attractive, were not quite frank, for
the moments when she found them so were
sometimes separated by long intervals and by
more weariness than she would have liked to
confess. She grew heartily tired of her life
at King's Ferry, but she would not shorten
the length of her stay, however much

tempted by impatience, because that would
also mean shortening her stay in the neighbourhood,
which she wanted to prolong by
all the means in her power. Then of course
there were days when she saw nothing of
George Lawrence, though she showed marvellous
ingenuity in forging a chain of small
engagements, and even at the cost of much
personal suffering, tried to attract the spoiled
Lionel. But in this she was seldom, if ever,
successful, and she suffered many small torments,
which, it is to be feared, were intentional,
at the hands of Lionel and Pat,
besides those provided quite incidentally by
the Duffer, who entangled himself hopelessly
in her dresses, upset her ink, and broke anything
he so much as looked at. To George
Lawrence she spoke of them as dreadful
children, always in the way, and wearing
their mother to a shadow by the manner in
which they quarrelled and fought to carry

out their own wills ; but before Mrs. Eussell
herself she so successfully concealed her real
opinions, that the mother believed Lucy to
bestow her admiration with perfect sincerity.

All this, however, made her visit rather a
trial to her. Then it was a small and scrambling
establishment, they dined early for the
sake of the children, and Lucy, who liked her
comforts  liked ease and luxury and the
good things of life  hated Iis. Eussell's
domestic arrangements. Xor, except perfect
friendliness, which had really existed before,
could she in her wiser moments feel that
there was anything between herself and Lawrence.
But then wiser moments only came
at intervals, and she had always accustomed
herself to expect admiration, so that she
really read it where it did not exist to read,
and was sometimes persuaded that he was
only waiting his opportunity.

Then came the illness of Agnes.

Lucy realised its gravity with terror. She
was sincerely sorry for Norma, but the terror
belonged to the possible collapse of the little
arrangements which she had carefully built
up, and which she really regarded with something
of the pride an artist would take in his
work. This did not prevent such real grief
as kept her awake on the night the worst
account came, when she tossed and turned
and was haunted by the thought of the
mother's misery; but, on the other hand,
neither did her anxiety become sufficiently
impulsive to allow her in an unguarded
moment to betray it either to Mrs. Eussell or
to Lawrence. If they knew, they might think
she should return ; if he knew, his sympathies
with Norma would certainly be dangerously
quickened, and he might not be content with
a mere message such as could without difficulty
be forgotten, he might take it into his
head to write himself, and thus revive the

interest which she persuaded herself had
more than waned. She spoke of the child's
illness, therefore, as a little feverish attack ;
and as Mrs. Eussell could immediately present
varied experiences of that kind for each of her
children, and there was certainly no appearance
of their having suffered in strength or
vitality, Lawrence had no suspicion of what
the woman he loved was enduring, and confined
himself to warm expressions of sympathy,
which he never doubted that Lucy made
known. He was hurt at the blank silence
with which Xorma had fenced herself round,
feeling that he had done nothing to deserve it,
and Lucy's tactics had so far succeeded that
he began to fear there was no hope for him.
But this did not affect his love.

When Lucy left King's Ferry for Marlham,
things were at their worst at Dover, and she
cried a little as she drove along in the fly, but
not too much, because she did not vish Martin

to know low anxious she was. She had been
afraid, throughout, that one of the other servants
might write to Martin from home, but,
fortunately for her, Norma's maid was not on
very friendly terms, and the others were too
busy. If she had not been unhappy the drive
from Eivermouth would have been pleasant,
through the pretty overgrown lanes, still
freshly green, though autumn had come at
least in name, between scattered cottages and
orchards of rosy apples. The road curved
and made quick descents, and clambered up
again, and here and there overlooked a silver
gleam of river, lying between woods, and the
pale colouring of the fields from which the
corn had been reaped broke the monotony of
green if it had ever existed. Presently the
church tower came into sight, and beyond
it a dark clump of Scotch firs, and in a few-minutes
the fly had turned into the shrubbery
of the rectory.

Major Macarthy was ready to receive their
guest, for his hospitable instincts never failed
him, and he talked cheerily as he took her
into the hall.

The rector has had to go to Stanford on
some parochial business, and George has gone
with him. But here's Xelly, and Mrs. Lawrence
is in the drawing-room expecting you,
and the others will soon be back.'

Mrs. Lawrence looked pale and anxious,
but she welcomed the girl eagerly.

'You are come at last, my dear! I have
been listening for wheels for the last hour.
But I'm afraid it has been a long and dusty
drive.'

'Not dusty, Fanny,' put in the major;
Saturday's rain left the ground in first-rate
condition.'

It was as pleasant as it could be ; I
never get tired of driving through these lanes
of yours,' said Lucy brightly.

Well, we can give ]\Iiss Winyeatt plenty
of that, can't we, Nelly ? She'll like to go to
Cambridge, and Farnham, and the High Hill.'

George-will know where it is best to go,'
put in ]airs. Lawrence decidedly ; ' pray leave
it to him.'

George hasn't got up his geography yet.
He lost himself the other night coming home,'
remarked Nelly.

Yes, in the night ; and no wonder, I am
sure, with those lanes a perfect tangle, and
one exactly like the other.'

Exactly,' said Xelly, sotto voce ; ' only
Uncle Tim could find his way blindfold.'

Her mother looked vexed. ' Don't let us
talk about it any more,' she said, ' but ring the
bell for tea. George said that your little niece
was not yet quite well again,' she added, addressing
Lucy. ' I am so sorry. He says she
is a dear little girl.'

No, she isn't well,' admitted Lucy, shaking

her head. ' I hope to have a much better
account, though, tomorrow, because, as you
know, dear Mrs. Lawrence, children are so
quickly up and down. And directly she is at
all ailing, her mother is naturally nervous.
You see, since dear Paul's death, Xorma
has no one else, and she is entirely bound up
in her.'

Naturally, poor thing. And I dare say
she misses you dreadfully.'

Ah, she has a most efficient friend with
her,' said the girl hastily, ' or of course I
should have gone home at once. But  oh, no
doubt in a day or two Agnes will be getting
well again.'

Oh yes, you need not suppose it to be
anything serious,' said Mrs. Lawrence with
cheerful unconsciousness ; ' and you must not
allow it to make you anxious, for you may be
quite sure you would be the first to hear if
there were real cause for alarm. I am a little

selfish, too, for I want your visit here to be as
happy as we can make it.'

Nelly looked astonished, but Lucy's face
flushed with pleasure. At all times she intensely
enjoyed being petted and made much
of, and it charmed her especially when such
appreciation came from Mr. Lawrence's
mother. She looked her best and brightest ;
she managed to smooth e over one or two
rough places in the conversation with as much
good-will and more tact than Major Macarthy,
and Mrs. Lawrence became more and more
delighted with her, more firmly impressed
with the conviction that here was the very
wife for George. Why was he not there?
Why was he missing his opportunities ? She
grew tired at last, but when Major Macarthy,
who noticed it, jumped up and proposed taking
Lucy to the garden, she was vexed with him.

'That is always the way,' she said with
the impatience of weakness ; ' you never can

be quiet, you are always dragging people off
to see your menagerie, or something ! '

'But I shall come back when you are
rested,' Lucy said, smiling ; ' oh, you will have
enough of me, I assure you ! '

It must be owned that some of the things
she was called upon to look at, possessed for
her no attractions whatever, and it seemed to
her extraordinary that Major Macarthy and
Nelly should waste so much thought upon a
bantam hen which had broken her leg, and
had it skilfully bound up by the major.
Privately, she also considered Toby such an
ugly specimen of a dog that the enthusiasm
bestowed upon him seemed to her ridiculous ;
but she was very careful to be enthusiastic
herself, and having a clever memory, inquired
for all that had been pointed out to her at
her former visit. An odd-looking shrivelled
old man, ruddy of face, but much bent, was
sweeping in the garden, and appeared to be

on the best terms with the major, who called
him Job, and asked for his wife. The old man
shook his head.

The missus be uncommon bad, sure.
Her's ramping with the sciatica, and do what
her will her can't kep warm.'

I'll come down by-and-by, and see if I
can't rig up something,' said the major quickly.

The rector and his son did not return until
it was time for dinner, but when Lucy descended
in a pretty pale pink dress, looking
very dainty and well-finished, she found
George and his sister in the drawing-room.
He greeted her warmly, and apologised for
his absence.

My father had business in Stanford,' he
said, ' and, to tell you the truth, I felt I ought
to go with him. Nelly won't believe it, but I
don't think the mare safe for him to drive.'

What I say,' said his sister, ' is, that Uncle
Tim is always ready to go, and that it is simply

nonsense for George to suppose that he can't
manage any horse. Who do you imagine
drove before you came back ? '

I only yonder you didn't break your
necks over and over again,' he returned good-humouredly,
' but then I knew nothing. Now
that I am here I must have something to say
to the matter, so far as my father is concerned.'

It's not temper,' argued Xelly.

Xo, it's nerves ; but it comes to much
the same thing. She will try to bolt at the
most inconvenient times. What account have
you of Agnes, Miss Winyeatt ? Is she all
riorht ajain ? '

Xot quite, I am afraid,' Lucy said, with a
little gasp of conscience, ' but I hope  in a
day or two '

Mrs. Winyeatt is not uneasy, is she ? '
asked Lawrence, looking at her.

Xorma is always uneasy if Agnes' little
finger aches.'

VOL. n. M

He turned away silently, but she was conscious
the next morning that when she opened
her letters he was watching ; and she took
care to hold herself well in hand, so as not to
betray anything in her face, though she could
not prevent her hand from shaking a little.
She kept her eyes fixed upon the letter until
she had fully mastered its contents, which
were more alarming than those of the day
before, but the effort was almost more than
she could make, and she feared that Lawrence
would see her agitation. The very fact of
havens to crush it back obliged her to simulate
a greater cheerfulness than lie would otherwise
have put on.

'I hope you have good accounts, my
dear ? ' inquired Mrs. Lawrence from behind
her own letters.

Thank you, I don't think there is much
that is new,' said Lucy forcing a smile. ' My
letter is from Janet Somerville, and Mr. Lawrence

knows'  she did not look at, though
she spoke of him  ' that Janet has many
other things to think about.'

'Then you need not be uneasy,' said Mrs.
Lawrence, nodding. ' Some one else would
have written full particulars if it had been
necessary. Oh, from what you told me, it
was evidently some childish ailment of no real
consequence ! '

Lucy's hand closed on the letter. ' Weare
so very unhappy,' it said, ' and I know,
dear Lucy, that it will make you miserable to
hear how dreadfully ill dear little Agnes is.
Mr. Kennedy speaks very gravely of her. It
breaks my heart to see dear Mrs. Winyeatt,
you can guess what it must be, and how you
will be longing to be here ! I often think
how sad it is for you to be away, and of
course this spoils everything.' It was a short
note, and there was not a word in it of anything
but what concerned Agnes.

31 2

Great discussions arose at breakfast as to
the best way of amusing their guest. George
did not say much, but each other person had
a different idea. The rector held that she
should be taken to Stanford, to see the old
church and castle ; the major was desirous to
drive her to a course of fine views; Mrs. Lawrence
negatived this on account of the mists ;
and Nelly warmly suggested going out to one
of the salmon boats. Lucy's heart fell ; it did
not seem as if George Lawrence intended to
take any part in her entertainment.

Please decide for me,' she said at last,
turning to him.

Would you like to row about the river ? '

'Yes, indeed I should.'

Then Tim and I will get a boat in the
Creek, and show you one or two of the fishing
villages near at hand.'

All right,' said the major eagerly. ' And
we'd better use poor Tom Frederick's, because

lie's been ill so long, the old fellow can't do
any fishing.'

Father a cranky affair, isn't it, Tim ? '
asked the rector.

Oh, not very bad ! I'll go down at once
and tinker her up  I've been intending to doit
 and by the time yon come down she'll be
as tight as a trivet. Trust me.'

Mrs. Lawrence caught her son in the study
after breakfast.

George, you really must see that your
uncle doesn't drag you aU out and drown
you in some miserable old boat. It is
just what he would do. He only thinks
of making friends for himself among those
men.'

I wish I had half as many friends,' said
Lawrence, with a laugh. ' Those men, as you
cal them, would do anything for him. Do
you know that he has got Jem Baker to give
up drink ? *

For how long, I wonder ? ' she answered.
I never trust those sudden conversions.'

I should be inclined to think even they
were better than none at all. But I believe
this has gone on some time.'

Mrs. Lawrence made an impatient movement.
' Well, we shall see. Only pray be
careful about the boat. Nelly has no commonsense
about such things.'

"When the time came, Nelly, however, was
missing. After calling for her in all directions,
her brother was obliged to give up the
search. He looked annoyed as he explained
to Lucy that she had probably gone off on
some errand of her own.

So that I am sorry to say that you must
put up with only my companionship to the
Creek,' he added.

She turned towards him with a look of
pleasure in her eyes.

How pleasant it is of you to give up your

time to me ! I am very glad to have you by
yourself, because I can mention one or two
things that one can't very well talk about
before all the world. I want to thank you
for making your mother so friendly towards
me.'

K you knew my mother better, you would
know that she never could be made to do anything,'
he answered.

Well,' she said, ' then disposing her, if that
expresses it better. Is she so determined ? Is
that where you get your obstinacy ? '

I couldn't say. My father is not behindhand
in the quality. But why do you accuse
me of obstinacy? '

They were walking up a hill ; Lucy appeared
to reflect a short time before she
answered 

I think  I am almost sure that it does
belong to you. I think it would be exceedingly
hard to persuade you against your will.'

He looked at her as if he were not quite
indifferent to what seemed a shsht remark.

Perhaps you are right he said quietly.
Perhaps I am inclined to hold on Adhere
wiser men would give up. If that is obstinacy,
I had better confess to it at once.'

Yes,' she said, ' I think that is what it is.'

Still, I am not sure that I could get on
without it,' he added. ' Do you maintain it
to be a weakness ? '

Lucy considered again.

Isn't it, at any rate, a mistake to fight
against the inevitable ? '

Where do you find the inevitable ? In a
woman's word ? '

He spoke quickly and unguardedly, and
perhaps would have been glad to withdraw
what he had said if he could have done so.
But Lucy answered as quickly 

That depends upon the woman. With
some women I believe you would find it.'

She looked up at him as she spoke, and
he winced a little.

You should know better than I, who can
only speak from the outside. But having just
owned to being obstinate, you will not expect
to convert me,' he said after a slight hesitation.
'I should always hope that time  or
circumstances, might modify matters.'

Yes,' she replied slowly, ' you are right to
own that you are obstinate.'

But not unreasonably,' he urged. ' You
will admit so much ? '

'Ah, I can't do that ; we are arguing on
such vague theories that I can't admit anything
that has to do with reason.'

I did not know they were no more than
vague theories,' he said significantly.

'Oh yes,' she returned lightly  'the
vaguest ! If you had anything particular in
your mind, don't accuse me of having spoken
with intention. Perhaps it was very presumptuous

of me to have talked about
obstinacy at all ; I ought to have called it
resolution, or firmness, or something more
civil. I will do better in future. But now
tell me, where does that little zigzag path
lead?'

Only into an orchard. Will you come ?
It has a fine view.'

Lucy shook her head. ' Too wet ; I'm not
prepared for long grass and nettles.'

They both became silent as they turned
down a steep lane towards the Creek. Lucy
was pondering on the conversation, which, if
it had not produced all she wished for, she yet
hoped might bear fruit, when Lawrence said
suddenly 

In old days I should have described
Mrs. Winyeatt as exceedingly impulsive in
character.'

She opened her eyes widely.

Were you thinking of Norma ? You

almost startled me, for, oddly enough, so was
I. But I don't think the old Xorma and the
present can be quite the same person. I
don't think she acts from impulse now. I
suspect dear Paul's death changed her very-much.'


People's natures generally remain the
same, at bottom,' he said rather roughly.

Yes ? Well, of course you can perhaps
judge better than I, and I only go by what
she says and by what I see. It has struck me
more than once  but I won't give you my
ideas, for they are very Hkely to displease
you.'

Very likely,' he said, with the same
doggedness of tone, ' but I dare say they are
wholesome medicine. Go on.'

It has struck me,' continued Lucy,
trying hard to remember something which
Miss Elhson had once said about Norma,
that it is a sort of reaction against the

impulsiveness for wliicli she blames herself,
which makes her more determined than other
women when once she has made up her mind.
Do you know what I mean ? '

I suppose so. It's very womanish and
unreasonable.'

Thank you ! ' lie said, with a charming
pout. ' And I won't have Xorma called unreasonable.
It isn't unreasonable  is it ?  to
think out tidings thoroughly, and then to acton
what she feels to be right.'

Yes, it is. Half the time it wouldn't be
reason at all, only turning an impulse into a
solid and really mischievous thing.'

Now I can't understand you at all,' Lucy
returned, shaking her head. ' You should
have had it out with Norma herself when you
were at Dover, though I don't believe even
you would have moved her.'

Oh, I can't move her ! ' he said hastily,
and then quite inconsequently and in a

changed voice  ' Is she  is Lts. AVinyeatt
very unhappy? '

Oh, you know how she is bound up in
Ames. I dare sav she is making herself
most miserable.'

I wish I were there,' muttered Lawrence
under his breath, but Lucy, whose ears were
extraordinarily sharp, caught the words and
felt an added pang of fright. She could not
directly answer them, but she said as calmly
as she could 

bliss Ellison is the very best person in
the world to keep up her spirits and prevent
her from worrying herself.'

 Yes,' said Lawrence, ' if there is no real
cause for alarm.'

You will make me nervous,' replied
Lucy, trying to laugh ; ' do you always take
such a dark view of things ? '

Xot always,' he said briefly.

She read a touch of uncertainty in the

answer, and was tempted at any cost to
disperse it. But it did cost her something to
say

Don't you suppose they would tell me
all?'

Yes,' he said again, ' one would think so.
Unless '

What ? ' she asked with a slightly
tremulous voice.

Mrs. Winyeatt is not a selfish person,
and it is possible she wishes to avoid alarming
you.'

How well you read Norma ! ' the girl
exclaimed, provoked and frightened out of
her self-control. But he did not perceive
that anything lay hid behind the plain words,
nor did he find anything to answer. He only
said more cheerfully 

However, let ns hope there is nothing so
serious behind ; and as you say, it is natural
to suppose that they would write to you

quite fully. Here eve are. and there is Tim
at work.'

The Creek was of no great length, but it
was well shut in, and protected especially from
south-west winds by the high hill down which
they had come. A few cottages straggled
down to the edge, and there were several
boats lying about, some in mud and some in
water. The shabbiest of all was that on
which Major Macarthy was engaged, with
Toby sitting in the stern, but he called out
cheerfully that it was water-tight and would
be ready in a twinkling.

You have provided an old tub ! ' said
Lawrence with a laugh, as he took up an
oar.

 The worst on the river,' said the major
promptly. ' Poor old Tom, luck's been
against him all his life ; and if his boat goes.
I don't know how on earth he'll rub on.
I suppose, George, you wouldn't care to lend

him the money for a new one ? He and I
micfht guarantee the interest between us, and
upon my soul, I don't think it would be a
bad speculation.'

'Couldn't I do it?' asked Lucy eagerly.
If you would let me, Major Macarthy, I
shouldn't mind about the interest '

'Now would you?' cried the major.
'Twould be a real kindness ; and if you had a
share in the fishing, I do believe, as I said to
George, that it might turn out a first-rate investment.'


Shut up, Tim,' said George authoritatively.
Miss Winyeatt will do nothing of the kind.
Don't ever listen to him, Miss Winyeatt ; there
never was a man so full of Quixotic ideas for
the good of his fellow creatures. Promise me
never to be led into them, or I shall not have
a moment's peace.'

What am I to do. Major Macarthy ? ' Lucy
demanded playfully. But Lawrence looked

so grave that she added at once  ' I will
promise to do nothing without leave. Will
that content you ? '

Perfectly. Thank you.'

But I do think you couldn't find a safer
thing,' urged the major meekly. 'Just consider,
George. The profits this autumn have
been astonishing. I only wish I had the
chance. You won't? I never saw a fellow
with so little enterprise. Miss Winyeatt, if you
feel any water under your feet, just speak,
will you ? and I'll bale it out at once.'

Shall we go back and get a better boat ?
It's a shame to have put you into this,'
said Lawrence, stopping rowing, and looking
vexed.

But she protested that the boat was dry,
and that she was finding everything delightful
; and, indeed, there was something very
pleasant about the soft, slightly languid atmosphere
and in all that eras around them. They

VOL. IL N

were rowing up the river, and the tide was
almost high, so that it reached the undergrowth
which feathers along the bank on one
side, and leans over so as nearly to touch the
swift water. Presently the banks grow higher,
a picturesque thatched boat-house lies embedded
in beautiful woods, just beginning to be
warmed by touch of autumn. Here, hugging
the shore, lies a silent file of salmon boats
watching their nets. ' On the other side green
reaches tempt the red cows to come down to
the rich pasture, and to stand so near the
water's edge that their reflections break its clear
colour. A heron rises heavily, and, long neck
outstretched, flies up the river. And further
on white cottages with deep thatched roofs,
and flowers clambering to the very chimneys,
cluster by the water's edge, a woman leans over
a low stone wall  stained with infinite variety
of colour  and calls to two children who are
paddling about in a boat ; and tall poles of

uneven height show where the salmon-nets
are hung to dry when not in use.

I don't suppose there's a man about the
place,' remarked Lawrence.

No ; they're all fishing. It's a wonderful
opportunity,' said the major regretfully.

They rowed quietly on. The boat though
clumsy was not uncomfortable, and Lucy, if
she could have lulled her conscience to sleep,
would have very well liked to have been
sitting opposite to Lawrence in this dreamy
quiet. But she had a conscience. She was,
indeed, very careful about it in many ways,
and if in others she managed to ignore its
promptings, she could not do so easily. If
ever Lawrence found out  if Agnes died  if
he should carry out an impulse to go back to
Dover  to see Xorma  where would she be ?
All these haunting suggestions were like so
many sharp small stings.

And now they had got some way up the

If 2

river, and the right-hand bank had melted
away or run further back, and it was a land
of reeds and sedges, where the herons congregated.
The picturesque silver-grey birds were
standing or stalking about, and Toby's excitement
and wonder became almost uncontrollable.
But here Lawrence proposed turning
round, and the boat, helped by the stream,
swept more swiftly down, and behold, all the
views and lights were changed, and all the
beauty seemed to have taken fresh shape.
Major Macarthy, idly dipping his oar, began
to talk about the creatures, fish, bird and
beast, which haunted the river ; it seemed as if
he knew them all, where the herons had their
favourite fishing-grounds, where the water rats
lived, where the kingfishers darted along the
banks. He talked of them all delightfully,
with an extraordinary love and knowledge,
and Lucy, who at first had not cared to attend,
felt as if a new world were being opened

before her. She said so to Lawrence as they
climbed the steep lane from the Creek, the
major having lingered behind to make the
boat secure, and to carry its hire to old Tom,
who stood watching them and grumbling at
the door of his house.

Yes  poor old Tim,' said Lawrence
gravely. ' Small wonder that Nelly  and mj
father, too  find him such a charming come
panton ! I don't know his equal when you
get him on those subjects.'

Is Mrs. Lawrence quite so fond of him ? '
she asked with a little hesitation.

He shook his head and laughed. ' Xo ;
that's pretty plain, isn't it ? She lives in an
agony lest he should ruin us all ; and I'm
bound to say he would do it if he had the
chance  with the best intentions in the
world.'

He seems to be always wishing to give.'

Give ! He would give the boots off his

feet. He is an amiable communist, very much
out of his place here.'

His words were destined to receive a
practical illustration, for Mrs. Lawrence met
them in the hall, and when Lucy had enthusiastically
praised the morning's amusement
provided for her, and as luncheon was waiting,
run upstairs to get ready for it, Mrs. Lawrence
turned to her son.

What do you suppose your uncle has
been doings now?' she demanded with a
shocked face.

'What?'

Giving away the very blankets from his
bed ! No, George, it i no laughing matter.
What security have we that he will not lay
hands upon anything else in the house ? '

Come, mother ! It's his own bed.'

They are our blankets. Hannah came tome
this morning, with such a face, to tell me
that one of the major's blankets was missing.

Even she was horrified. As for your father,
I am out of patience with him. He can only-laugh.'


lyell, have it out with Tim, if you must,
in private, and don't let us have these
domestic squabbles for public amusement.'

He spoke with a sharper ring in his voice
than was at all usual with him, but the
conversation with Lucy had left a soreness in
his heart, and the petty annoyances which
met him in his home were irritating. He
loved his mother warmly ; at the same time
he wished, with a man's impatience, that she
would not keep her troubles constantly expressed
in her face, particularly when he was
doing this best to relieve her from them.

Major Macarthy came in late, cheerfully
content with anything which might be left for
him, and unconscious of an impending cloud.
But Mrs. Lawrence caught him as he was
passing the door of the study afterwards.

Tim, may I ask what has become of your
blanket ? '

Oh, I took it down to old Betty Morris
last evening. To be sure, I ought to have
mentioned it to Hannah ; I dare say she was
rather surprised. But Betty was in such pain,
and Job said she felt the cold so much, that I
couldn't help taking it to her. I knew you
would like her to have it.'

When I wish to give away my blankets,
I prefer to do so myself. Perhaps you will
kindly remember that in future,' said Mrs.
Lawrence, feeling as if she had put a great
restraint on herself in saying no more. But
something in her tone made Major Macarthy
look at her and redden.

I assure you, Fanny, I mean to buy one
the first time I go into Eivermouth.' He
hastily thrust his hand into his pocket and
pulled out some silver. ' I know I must have
got enough  what does a blanket cost ?  six

or eight shillings ? Oh, well, I know I've
enough ; or if I haven't, Nelly will lend me
some.'

Mrs. Lawrence turned away, with a gesture
of despair.

It's of no use ; it's impossible to impress
upon you the commonest laws of  honesty,*
she would have liked to have said, but she
changed it to  'justice. You are absolutely
and entirely unpractical.'

I dare say you are right,' he said wistfully.
' I'm awfully sorry to be a worry to
you, Fanny. I believe I ought to go away,
only this has always been such a home to me,
and I  I have cared so much for you all.
But  I believe I ouizht to qo.'

He was turning from the room in an
utterly dejected and dispirited manner, and
she stood still without a movement. But
as he reached the door she followed him
quickly, holding out her hands.

Tim I ' she said.

Yes, Fanny.'

She was half crying, and she spoke very
quickly 

What I said was quite true, for you're the
most unpractical man that ever lived, and you
don't know what mischief you do when you
meddle with our money matters, but  I never
saw any one so sweet-tempered, and you make
me ashamed of myself Don't go. I dare say
I shall be as cross as ever tomorrow, and I
won't  no, I won't have my best blankets
given to that tiresome old Betty ; but  you
mustn't mind what I say, and you mustn't go.'

So the major stayed.

CHAPTEE Xvi.

Misfortune stands with lier bow ever bent
Oyer the world ; and he who wounds another,
Directs the goddess by that part he wounds
"Where to strike deep her aiTOws in himself.  Young.

"iai HAT afternoon George Lawrence
went off without taking a horse,
or telling any one where he was
going. Mrs. Lawrence was evidently annoyed
at his departure, and Xelly, upon whom was
thrown the care of their guest, openly
grumbled. It Alas now too late in the year
for sitting out, except on specially fine days,
and this one was not above the average.
Lucy yawned when she was not seen, pronounced

against a drive with Major Macarthy,
and a walk with Nelly, and charmed Mrs.
Lawrence by saying she would best like to
stay with her. She took some time in her own
room, writing a long and affectionate letter to
Norma. She did not say more than she felt,
but she felt better for having said it ; it allowed
her to suppose that her sympathy had taken
at least some sort of solid form, and she was
able to pour out much that it had been real
pain to her to keep closely locked within.
But at last she dried her eyes, and went down
to the study, where Mrs. Lawrence was eagerly
awaiting her, and at once began.

I do not like your staying with me this
afternoon, but you don't know the comfort
that it is to have some one with whom I
can talk unreservedly. You have the gift of
understanding without elaborate explanations.
However, I am not going to hold forth upon
ourselves. I want you to tell me more of

your own life. It seems to me rather sad
that you should have no one nearer to you
than a sister-in-law.'

Lucy came and knelt by her side
caressingly.

Dear Mrs. Lawrence,' she said gently, ' it
is so sweet and dear of you to think of me !
It is  even you can't tell how different it is
from a real home of one's own. But very
few people realise this  even Mr. Lawrence,
I am sure, never saw it,' she added.

No,' said the elder woman, ' because he is
a man, and men are not quick to understand
the little rubs which we poor women feel at
every turn. But I can realise it all.'

It is hard sometimes,' Lucy went on
thoughtfully, ' to be misunderstood, and  and
hampered. But you must not think that
Norma does not mean to be kind. And I
dare say I am quite as much of a trial to her.'

I don't think you would be a trial to anyone,'

said Mrs. Lawrence warmly ; and Lucy,
who thoroughly enjoyed this appreciation,
gave her hand an affectionate squeeze. Like
many others, when she was praised she was
always confident that she was understood.

Dear Mrs. Lawrence ! ' she murmured
again.

Well, you will have a home of your own
one day, I dare say before very long,' said the
other, ' and I for one shall be extremely glad.
One must be sorry for girls placed in
thoroughly false positions, with relations who
are only relations in name, not in sympathy.'

'No,' Lucy agreed, 'not in sympathy.
That is just it.'

George has never said much about your
sister-in-law. What is she like ? Is she much
older than you ? '

Yes, a good deal older. Hasn't he
spoken of her ? Most people think her very
beautiful.'

'Very beautiful I' sirs. Lawrence lifted
her delicately-marked eyebrows in wonder,
for the idea of great beauty in connection
with Lucy's sister-in-law had not occurred to
her. ' I am surprised,' she said thoughtfully,
that George has not spoken of it  but lie
is sometimes curiously fastidious in taste, and
it is quite possible he may not be of that
opinion.'

Perhaps not,' Lucy answered, taking up
a piece of knitting. ' ]\Iay I go on with this ?
I have not brought down my own work.'

Do, my dear. Very beautiful ! ' she
repeated once more. An idea had flashed
upon her which she found singularly unwelcome,
for she had formed her own opinion
of Xorma, and it was not favourable. Surely
George would not be so foolish as to throw
away his chance of winning this pretty, fair-haired,
unconscious girl, now sitting so contentedly
by her side, for a handsome,

imperious, hard-natured woman who would
separate him from them all again ! And yet
men were so little to be trusted in matters of
this sort, that no traditions of common sense
could yield her comfort.

Then she recovered herself, and turned to
Lucy with a smile.

We suit each other very well, I think,'
she said ; ' or is it that you try to suit ? Most
people would find an old woman's society
very dull.'

You are not old, and you are not dull,'
Lucy returned merrily, ' and I feel as much
at home as if I had lived here all my life.'

'That's good,' returned Mrs. Lawrence
warmly. ' It does me good to hear you say it
as if you meant it. Nelly is restless. She would
stay with me if I wished it, but she would
all the time be longing to be in the open air,
with dogs or horses. Nelly should have been
a boy. She is thoroughly trustworthy and

straightforward, but lie wants softening. 1
can see that it annoys George. When he
marries his wife will not be like Xelly.'

Lucy stooped to pick up the ball of wool.

Perhaps he will not marry,' she said.

Yes, he will. It would not surprise me
if he married soon. A man cannot always be
running over the world. I shall be glad
when what I expect arrives, and I wish  yes,
I earnestly wish that I could choose his wife.'

She watched the girl as she spoke, and
Lucy was quite aware of the look. She met
it for a second, and then turned away with
a quick movement which might be taken for
shyness, for she desired !Mrs. Lawrence to
understand that the idea was not new to her,
and she conveyed this impression so well that
the mother felt convinced that George had
in some manner created it. Even then  so
full are we of contradictions  a pang of
jealousy stabbed her, but it passed, and she

VOL. IL

leaned back in lier chair with a sigh of relief.
She did not, however, venture to say more on
the subject, contenting herself with trying, as
she thought, to draw out Lucy, and unconscious
that the girl read her object quite
easily, and said only as much or as little as
seemed to her expedient, while she charmed
her questioner by her candid air. To the
mother, at any rate, the afternoon passed
quickly, and she was pleased that when
Lawrence returned, he should find her and
Lucy happily together.

Ah, George,' she cried, ' come in ! I
don't know where you have betaken yourself,
but I have not had such a pleasant talk fora
long time.'

I am glad of that, mother,' he replied,
and I am afraid you wall not thank me for
disturbing it ; but I thought Miss Winyeatt
might be anxious for her letters, so 1 went to
the town for them.'

Ah, that explains ! ' said Mrs. Lawrence,
smiling. ' Have you rowed all the way ?
How hot you look ! '

Lucy had turned a shade paler as he put
the letter into her hand. She would gladly
have postponed receiving news which she
dreaded, until the morning, when she had
intended that Martin should bring her letters
at once to her room, and give her time to
arrange herself. Here she felt as if with
Lawrence's keen eyes upon her she could not
preserve her composure, her hand trembled
as she opened the envelope, and all the first
sentences seemed blurred and indistinct.
Then, with a great efibrt, she mastered herself,
and seeing that the news was good, her
colour came back, she read steadily on,
glanced back at the beginning, laid do-n the
letter, and looked up with a smile.

'Do you know, L:. Lawrence,' she said,
'that you are the kindest person possible

Hardly any one would have thought that I
might be anxious, and taken all that trouble.
I am very grateful.'

She is better ? ' he said with eagerness.

'Oh, she is much better! They seem to
think one need have no more fears.'

Then she has been very ill,' Lawrence
remarked gravely.

Lucy bit her lip, recognising her imprudence.


You know that Norma would be fearful,'
she said with quickness.

'Norma is a very curious name; I can
never quite reconcile myself to it,' put in Mrs.
Lawrence, glancing at her son. He showed
no sign of having heard.

Do you feel confident that they tell you
the truth now ? ' he asked at last.

Quite  quite confident ! I hope they
have told me the truth throughout,' replied
Lucy, rising with a little touch of dignity in

lier manner. ' I think, as there is still time, I
will write and say how glad I am. Shall I
add that you rather doubt their statements ? '
she added, returning to her lighter manner.

Lawrence also appeared to have recovered
himself.

'Say that I rejoice to hear them. Pray
say as much for me as I should like to
express for myself,' he added in a lower voice
at the door. Then he strolled to the window,
and stood looking out, with his hands thrust
into his pockets.

That is a very nice girl. The more I see
of her, the better I like her,' said Mrs. Lawrence,
cordially.

Yes, she's a favourite. Tm glad you get
on,' he replied, without turning.

And I am always sorry for girls who
have no home of their own.'

No home P ' he repeated, wheeling round.

Well, only with a sister-in-law.'

Oh ! ' he laughed. ' You needn't pity
her for that. They pull together admirably.'
Then, as if dismissing the subject, he said,
I wish you'd try to prevent my father from
driving that chestnut mare. He's not up to
her, but he will take her out, and now he and
Nell are off somewhere.'

'I do think you are inclined to take
alarm unnecessarily,' said Mrs. Lawrence.
He drove her constantly before you came
home.'

That may be. He may do it once too
often.'

Well, George, the mare is your own, and
you can either sell, or refuse to allow her to
be driven.'

My father's so uncommonly fond of her
that I don't like to do the first, and it would
hurt him awfully if I denied her to him. If
he would only let me drive him, it would be
all right.'

My dear George, do you think yourself
so superior to your father ? '

I've had a tolerably large experience in
the way of queer cattle. But he could
manage well enough if he kept his attention
fixed. What always puts me in a funk is the
way in which he falls into some talk which
interests him, and lets the reins drop on her
back. She isn't safe to treat carelessly.'

But he has Xelly,' said his mother, staggered.


Nelly and Tim are both slap-dash whips,
always inclined to run races or whisk round
corners. Well  I dare say the fates \vill
favour them ; but if you can persuade my
father quietly, I should be glad. Tim's not a
bit of good ; he encourages him.'

Yes, and does his best to make him as
foolish as he is himself,' Mrs. Lawrence replied
severely ; for in spite of the little scene
between them, she had not condoned Major

Macartby's offences. 'You are sure that lie is
not leading him into more money scrapes ? '

I don't believe there is the wherewithal
to be led,' said Lawrence, shortly.

He was feeling out of sorts. The yearning
for Norma  to see her, to hear her voice
had lost none of its intensity ; rather it
seemed that at this time, when some subtle
link of sympathy warned him that she was
in trouble, it was stronger than ever. Ashe
stood there, looking out at the rectory
garden, a little sodden and untidy, leaves
dropping here and there upon it, shrubs wanting
to be repressed, autumn flowers straggling,
a couple of robins hopping fearlessly about 
it all faded from his sight. He saw Norma's
sweet and noble face bending over her child,
the beautiful eyes dimmed by watching, the
smile on her lips tremulously tender, every line
of her stooping figure instinct with that strong
mother's love, which to a true man seems the

most adorable thing in all the world. To this
day Lawrence maintains that he did so see her,
and that it was Norma's very self, as she hung
over the little girl.

It was, at any rate, so strong a presentment
that it left him with a passionate inclination
to write to her. He had even a wild
impulse to go ; but Lucy's presence was an
absolute bar to this. Besides, if there had
been danger, and of this he was confident, it
had now passed away ; his sudden appearance
would be very startling and uncomfortable
for Mrs. Winyeatt. Xo, he could not go.
Still, he might write. He would not say anything
which could vex or disturb her, but
surely his old friendship, his intimacy with
them of late, gave sufficient excuse for an expression
of sympathy ; indeed, in a few moments
they had presented themselves as such very
effective reasons, that he began to feel as if
he had been brutal in not writing before.

Remembering, however, that Lucy's bulletins
had treated the illness lightly, he felt that he
might say for himself that, like her, he had
been sept in ignorance.

Lucy would have been greatly perturbed
had she known that the bag which conveyed
her letter of genuine delight to Norma, contained
another written in Lawrence's marked
handwriting. True to his covenant with himself
that he would say nothing that should vex
or disturb her, he abstained, as he thought,
from word of his own love, but it was not
difficult to read it between the Ones, however
well he may have considered he had concealed
it.

Such as it was, however, it produced an
almost overpowering tumult in Normals heart.
She had put so much pressure on her feelings,
that she had pretty nearly succeeded in making
them discredit the evidence of her senses.
After all, she had argued, he had never told

her in so many words that he loved her, and
if it were her own action, or, to be more exact,
Janet's broken arm, which had prevented it,
still it remained unsaid, and  it was possible
she might have deceived herself. Then, of
late, she had been so much engrossed by one
class of emotions, anxiety for her child, that
all others had, as it were, been crowded out,
so that now when they claimed entrance again
they appeared to have gained a surprising
force, and to sweep down the barriers she had
erected as if they were so much card paper.
It frightened her to feel that it was so. She
had imagined that the interval had put an end
to dreams of which she had unwillingly admitted
the existence, instead of which it appeared
only to have given them fresh strength. And
here on their side, charged with a strange unexpected
power, speaking with more eloquence
than the bare words seemed to express, came
this letter. Until she had it, she never knew

how intensely she had yearned for it, how
cruel the silence she had herself created had
been, but, finding this out by its coming, in the
solitude of her room she gave way to the
eager gladness of her heart, reading it again
and again, and dressing it to her lips. Never,
she thought, were words more manly, more
tender, more delicate ! And while she had
blamed him, he had been thinking of her.
Then she saw what in the first tide of delight
she had passed unnoticed, that he had not
known the whole, he had never known the
whole ; but from the expression he used, that
he could not but guess that Miss Winyeatt
had been shielded from anxiety by the illness
having been treated lightly until fear was over,
she was aware that Lucy had held back the
truth.

Norma was not naturally a patient woman,
and this action of Lucy's brought a passionate
throb of anger to her heart. She hated anything

underhand or deceitful, hated it with a
withering contempt, and she had an immediate
impulse to hold the girl's deed up to the unpitying
light. Xot by way of accusation but
as a mere matter of fact she would tell George
Lawrence in answer to his letter that nothings
had been kept back, and that Lucy knew it
all. With a nature such as Xorma's, however,
stern justice was sure to be soon swept
away by a generous impulse. She resolved to
say nothing. Lucy  Paul's sister  should be
safe from her abutment, should be at liberty
to gain, what profit she could from her deception.
Xorma would not even allow herself to
speculate what might have been her reasons
for it. She turned her thoughts from Lucy,
but she suffered them to dwell on Lawrence.

]bliss Ellison, as we know, had gone back to
her home, but she still spent as much of her
time as was possible with Xorma, for Agnes
needed all their care and nursing. It was

not until some days after she lead received the
letter that Norma alluded to it. Agnes was
dozens in her chair, and her mother and Miss
Ellison were in a little room which opened out
of the bedroom, when Mrs. Winyeatt suddenly
said 

You must not do Mr. Lawrence an
injustice. When I went back that day after,
my first walk I found a letter from him.'

Miss Elhson was busily engaged in fitting
and arranging some mysterious children's
garments, and she did not at once reply.
When she spoke it was to say carelessly 

What excuse does he make for himself ? '

For what ? '

For not having taken the trouble to write
before.'

Oh, you cannot blame him,' Norma said

quickly ; ' evidently he did not know she had

been so ill.'

'Couldn't he ask couldn't he find out?'

For some unaccountable reason ]\Iiss Ellison
appeared to be antagonistic to Lawrence.
Xorma was silent. Presently she repeated 

He did not know.'

How strange, and with Lucy on the spot ! '
said Miss Ellison, innocently. ' However, men
and women are beyond me, and one must
either be for ever making new discoveries or
else shutting one's eyes. For the rest of my
life I am going to try shutting my eyes ; it
is the most peaceful plan. I suppose you did
not answer Mr. Lawrence P '

Mrs. Winyeatt reddened.

Way should I not ? ' she asked.

Merely because I thought he was to be
snubbed in every possible way, and left to 
talk exclusively with Lucy. Wasn't it so ? '

To this question the younger woman made
no reply. Li a few moments she said 

Mary I believe I was wrong.'

I dare say. One always admits that

possibility for other people with the most

ready acquiescence. But how ? '
In letting Lucy go.'
Could you have stopped her ? '
I might have opened her eyes.'
Oh no, my dear. She can shut hers 

as I am trying to shut mine  systematically.

Don't be unhappy. Lucy is no fool, and by-and-by

will open her eyes of her own accord,

which will be a far more effectual process.'
'She may suffer,' Mrs. Winyeatt said

slowly.

Not if she does not care for him. Only

her vanity will suffer.'

Norma looked up eagerly.

No,' she said ; ' she does not care for

him.'

Lightness and laughter are with such as he

Only the surf upon the soul's deep sea.  C. F. Bates.

Norma right ? Was Lucy
heart-whole ? Love is a flower
about which it is not safe to
forecast  it is full of unexpected surprises ; it
will die where you look for it to flourish, it
will spring up in the least Hkely soils ; it
grows out of opportunity and neighbourhood
and absence, sometimes even out of neglect.
Here you water and foster it, and it never
shows a leaf; there you feel all is too arid
and unlovely, and lo ! the tender shoot has

VOL. II. P

started into vigorous life. Many waters
cannot quench it, nor fire destroy. It is
one of the enigmas of life  great for evil,
but greater, ten thousandfold greater, for
good.

Norma's letter gave Lawrence much satisfaction,
especially at first. He had not
altogether expected an answer, though he
told himself repeatedly that there was no
reason why it should not come ; but it had
appeared to him that of late disappointments
had arrived without apparent reason, and he
did not therefore venture to build largely
upon his chances. The letter, however,
reached him without delay, and was like the
old Norma, frank and friendly. It said that
Agnes had been very ill, it did not by so much
as a hint imply that Lucy had known all the
facts, and it took Lawrence's interest in the
child altogether for granted. It put him into
good spirits, which his mother attributed to

Lucy's presence, and was watchful not to
jar upon with domestic disquiets. Once or
twice she let drop words which the girl's
vanity was quick to seize and feed upon.
Lawrence himself did his utmost to promote
the pleasantness of things, not only  if
chiefly. because Lucy was Xorma's sister-in-law,
and understood the condition, but
because he had a real liking for her, and
also felt grateful for the improved state of
the family atmosphere. To him it fell to
propose and carry out plans, for Xelly remained
unsuggestive, and the major's ideas
were never acceptable to Mrs. Lawrence. He
was now engaged upon taming two robins,
and enticing them to fly in at the study
window and attend afternoon tea. The birds
were marvellously at their ease with him, and
he was encouraged by all the family except
Mrs. Lawrence, who hated their presence for
several reasons, principally because she held a

p 2

rooted conviction that it was unlucky for a
robin to come into the house.

Under Lawrence's conducting, therefore,
there were expeditions to places round ; to an
old castle, now no more than an ivy-covered
shell, but still proudly dominating the wooded
valley beneath ; to the most beautiful spots
on the moor, where the river which swept
broadly past their own village, here rushed
in hot impatience over stones and round
boulders, and the great hills rose up to their
crowning tors, and the deep rich colouring of
autumn touched everything with its mournful
glory. Lucy, who might not have cared
much for these places under other circumstances,
found them desirable now, when
Lawrence was there, and she, the only
stranger, received all his attentions : the few
garden parties to which she was also conveyed,
were not half so enjoyable.

Time, however, began to make her uneasy.

Her visit could not last mundi longer, when
already she had been for nearly three weeks at
the rectory. Once she had proposed leaving,
but !Mrs. Lawrence had anxiously negatived it.
This could not last much longer., and, meanwhile,
when would George Lawrence speak ?
His mother was almost as anxious. It seemed
to her nothing but perversity which made him
hang back when all that he could wish for
was within his reach. More than once she
had felt that she must advise, must do something
to accelerate matters ; then a wiser
whisper warned her to refrain, and she resolved,
with a sigh, to wait until perhaps the
last moment of Lucy's stay. Let her go without
protest, she would not.

Lucy had now fixed to leave on Monday,
and Thursday had arrived. There was a plan
for going on that day to Eivermouth, and there
taking a boat for open sea fishing. The
weather had been grey and stormy, but with

nothing actually violent about it, and indeed
Nelly was vehement in her assurances that
it was all that could be wished. They were
to start at twelve and take their luncheon
with them, when, an hour before, George
Lawrence walked into the room where his
mother and Lucy were sitting, with a telegram
in his hand.

I'm sorry to say I must go to Plymouth,'
he said.

'To Plymouth? What fors' asked his
mother.

Hugh Featherstone is ill and going off to
the Cape. It's a bore that it should have
happened to-day, but I couldn't fail him ;
and Nelly and Tim will take good care of Miss
Winyeatt.'

Lucy's face fell. She had always felt a
doubtful dread of this day's pleasuring, but
with Lawrence absent nothing but the dread
remained.

Please  let us give it up,' she said hurriedly.


Isn't that a pity ? '

No, indeed. I would rather not go if
you will not be there.'

I'm afraid you don't much trust either
Tim or Nelly,' Lawrence said with a laugh ;
but they're really safe on the water, or I
wouldn't suggest your sticking to it.'

Lucy shook her head.

I am quite of her opinion,' said Mrs.
Lawrence. ' Even if she wished it I should
certainly not consent to the risk. Nelly I cannot
control, but Lucy I know would give way
if she saw that I was anxious.'

And though I should like you to keep
my secret religiously,' the girl added with
mock earnestness, 'I am a shocking coward
myself. When Mr. Lawrence is there I know
it is aU right, but without him  if you please,
I would rather not run into any dangers.'

Mrs. Lawrence looked delighted

Must you really go to Plymouth, George ? '
she asked gently. ' There is very little
satisfaction in those hurried meetings.'

I must go ; there's no question about it,'
he answered at once. ' I wouldn't on any
account fail old Hugh.'

But you'll come back this evening ? '

I don't know. Possibly not.'

I shall be very much disappointed if you
do not,' said his mother in an authoritative
tone which Lucy felt to be irritating.

Don't you mind  we will try to console
her,' she said, smiling brightly, and George
turned to her with a feeling of relief.

Then I am sure you will succeed,' he said
in a lower voice which had warmth in it, and
gave her a thrill of delight. ' I hope you
understand how much I regret about to-day.
I couldn't help myself.'

I understand fully. I am very sorry, too,

but these things will happen at inconvenient
moments.'

She had never shown to greater advantage.
No sign of disappointment, no pettishness, only
a desire to make things easier for him  this
was conduct which a man quickly appreciates
and for which he cannot but be grateful. He
went in search of Major Macarthy, who had
been rolling the grass to spare old Job's rheumatic
limbs, the robins hopping around him
in close attendance. He stopped as George
approached, and called out cheerfully 

Come to take a turn ? It's the best exercise
in the world. Or is it time to be off? '

'We're not going,' said Lawrence. And
then he told him of his change of plans.

Of course, of course,' said the major.
How will you get to Stanford ? Will you
drive, or shall I pull you up the river ? '

The steamer passes in half an hour, so I
may as well go in her,' said Lawrence, carelessly,

' and I'll find my way back either tonight
or tomorrow morning. But I say, Tim,
Miss Winyeatt doesn't care to go out fishing ;
will you see that she is taken somewhere, and
that Nelly is civil ? '

The major promised, and was prompt with
suggestions, so that Lawrence felt he might
safely trust to his powers of entertainment.

Don't drive the mare,' he turned back to
say, as he was leaving.

Well, no,' agreed the other regretfully,
not if you dislike the idea.'
I dislike it very much.'
All right ; there's the cob.'
As he stood there, upright, but leaning
slightly against the handle of the roller, which
he held with both hands behind his back,
Lawrence looking at him was struck with a
vague wonder and pity. This tall, really fine-looking
man, in the prime of life  was that
life as much wasted as his mother believed?

Something in the open frank expression,
something in the trust of the creatures round
him, protested against so harsh a judgment,
and yet to an active independent mind like
that of George Lawrence, it was scarcely
credible that such a man should submit to
such existence while there was any work to
be done in the world, if it were no more than
the breaking of stones. All this was true, and
still it was also true that such a kindly, warmhearted
life must have its value, might perhaps,
so George thought  strangely enough,
as he fancied afterwards  be more missed
than many another which to the world's eye
had made its mark. In the moment that he
stood there looking, one of the robins hopped
on Major Macarthy's foot, and glanced up
confidingly with head cocked on one side.

They're getting so tame, I'm half afraid
of stepping on the little rascals,' he called outwith
a laugh to George as he turned away

with this little picture in his mind, to stay-there
 as it turned out  all his life.

When Nelly came out, Tim Macarthy was
bringing up the roller against a back wall.

'Well, have you made up your minds,
Nell?' he called out with great cheerfulness.
What's up for the afternoon ? '

It's all very fine, George going off and
leaving that girl on our hands ! I tell you
what, Uncle Tim, it makes me sick to see
how mother adores her, and is always thinking
how she can marry her to George. I wish
he would marry her and have done with it,
but I don't believe it has ever entered his
head.'

Come, she's a very nice girl.'
'Nothing wonderful. And such ages as
she has been here ! I am sure we're tired of
her, and she of us. However, it isn't for much
longer, thank goodness ! As to mother, I
never saw anything like her, she would Hke

to have us all dancing attendance. We've
got to take her out on the river this afternoon.'


All right.'

Don't let us go till latest. Four o'clock
will do very well.'

An hour before that time the rector appeared
outside the study window, and made
signs that it was to be opened. When this
had been done by Nelly, he called out to his
wife 

'I just looked in, Fanny, to say that
Harris has sent over from Stoke to say he
wants to see me.'

That's only to get something more out of
you. I shouldn't go, if I were you,' returned
his wife.

Nonsense ! Women are too ridiculous ! '

'Well, you'll see that I'm right. How
are you going ? '

I shall drive the chestnut mare.'

I hope you won't do that ; George doesn't
think her safe for you.'

Well, upon my word, things are coming
to a pretty pass ! ' fumed the rector. 'Anything
like the conceit of these young men I
never met with ! As if I did not know how to
drive ! As if I had not been driving when
Master George was in leading-strings! But it's
all your fault, encouraging him, Fanny. You
turn the boy's head, making him think himself
a mighty monstrous fine fellow. Not drive
the mare ! I am thankful to say I'm not quite
laid on the shelf yet ! '

You had much better take advice,' called
out Mrs. Lawrence, the conversation behoof
carried on in high tones, she from the middle
of the room and he from the window. Disdaining
to answer the last remark, he marched
off. Lucy was not in the room, and Mrs. Lawrence
said to Nelly, ' I do wish your father
would not be so obstinate.'

It's all right. George is absurdly fidgety.
However, if you like, I'll go with him, and
Uncle Tim can take out Lucy.'

Well,' said her mother regretfully, ' I
suppose you had better ; though it is hard
upon poor Lucy that she should always be
sacrificed.'

Nelly, rather pleased at her exchange of
duties, left the room, and proceeded to the
stables. On her way she met Major Macarthy,
and imparted to him what was going on.

Did you ever hear such nonsense ? But
George has succeeded in frightening mother,
so one must give way.'

I think I'll go with your father myself,'
said Major Macarthy, with his blue eyes fixed
meditatively upon her.

No, that's not fair ; you've got to entertain
Lucy. You don't pretend to say,' she continued,
changing her tone, ' that you're going
to set up fidgets, too ? '

He laughed.

You may drive me as much as you
please, Nell, but  as George feels so strongly
about it with his father, I don't think it would
be quite fair on George. If you don't mind,
I'd rather go.'

She made a face indicative of extreme
disgust.

I don't know what's coming to the house ! '
she said. ' What on earth am I to do with
Lucy ? '

Eow her over to Ditto. I wish you'd
see whether old Mrs. Ellis's blackbird likes his
new cage. Is your father at the stables ? '

I expect so.'

They found the rector, still angry, superintending
the putting-in of the mare.

Never heard such a thing in my life ! ' he
exclaimed, divided between the desire to give
vent to his feelings, and unwillingness that the
stable-boy should be aware of his humiliation.

I should like to know who taught Master
George all that he knows ? '

Where are you going ? ' asked the major.

'Over to Stoke, to see Harris  if I am
allowed,' in a low voice charged with thunder.

That's unlucky.'

'Why?'

Because I wanted to see Harris myself,
about that Post Office business.

!Mr. Lawrence glanced sharply at him, but
lie was innocently engaged in altering a buckle
of the harness.

Well, you'd better come,' the rector said
in rather a grudging tone.

I've got to row Miss Winyeatt about.'

That's another of George's arrangements
I suppose ! I wish he'd leave other persons
to manage their own business.'

'I can take Lucy out, Uncle Tim,' said
Xelly, feeling herself magnanimous.

Yes, of course she can,' said her father,

VOL. IL Q

pleased that one of his son's plans should be
upset ; ' of course she can ! You'd better
come, Tim.'

All right I will.'

They started with Toby curled round at
his master's feet, the rector driving, and the
mare showing no more freshness after a day
in the stable than a certain alertness of ear
and a slight inclination to start ; against which
Mr. Lawrence was well on his guard. His
wrath was not yet exhausted, though there
was satisfaction in not having yielded to
feminine pressure, and he launched forth
angrily upon the folly of wives and sons, the
conceit of the young, and the weakness of
women, saying, of course, a good deal more
than he meant.

Having had his fling, he soon calmed
down, and both he and the major loved every
inch of the lanes along which they were
driving, and felt the charm of the quiet

autumn afternoon. There had been a high
wind the day before, which had completely
died away, and now there was that
hush which often comes in autumn, and
which at no other time is so expressive.
Trees, hedges, fields, lay bathed in golden
sunshine ; the smoke from the cottages
mounted straight into the air ; the white clouds
which heightened the tender blue of the sky
rested upon it without any visible movement.
Over a hedge appeared the broad back of an
old white horse, so roughened by age and reddened
by rolling that it looked like a piece of
the road ; further on a labourer was cutting
trammels ' in the bank, a woman with basket
and white apron stopping to chat with him.
The rector was popular, but the major was
beloved ; no man, woman, or child but had a
bob or a cheery Good-day for him, and more
than once they had to pull up to hear the
story of some of those they met. Once it was

qa

strange superstitious tale of an old mother-in-law
having ' ill-wished ' a cow, and the cow
dwindling away in consequence, until some
man brought a charm and found out the cause
of the sickness. Major Macarthy exerted all
his eloquence in vain  she didn't believe in
witchcraft, but her cow had been overlooked,
and she forgave her mother-in-law as a Christian,
but she'd never speak to her again 
never !

Oh yes, you will, Martha,' said the
major, cheerily ; 'you'll go home and think of
what I've said, and read a chapter, and by
tomorrow you'll be thoroughly ashamed of
yourself.' As they drove on he said to the
rector  'Poor souls, they don't mean half
the ill things they say.'

You're a great deal too easy, Tim,' said
the rector, scandalised, ' and there's no use in
my saying anything Ashen you're by.'

So they drove on along the network of

lanes, some narrow enough to cause the
uninitiated mind to wonder how things on
wheels could ever pass each other, and others
so beautiful with bordering of tiny streams,
and freshness of grass and cress, kept cool
through all the languors of summer ; with
clusters of blackberries, and higher up the
crimson tints of haws, and sharp touches of
yellow or red where a leaf has felt the first
nip, that it was impossible to quarrel with
the high banks and loss of wider outlook.
The mare had behaved on the whole very
well ; she showed an inclination to start at any
unexpected noise, but the rector was on his
mettle and kept her well in hand. The farm at
Stoke, to which they were going, was only
about four miles distant, but the road, it is
unnecessary to explain, was hilly, and they
took it easily', both really enjoying the drive.
Teaching the farm, a stout young labourer
took charge of the dog-cart, and they walked

over the farm with Harris, who was full of
complaints. The major had a dozen suggestions
for tilling, and ensilage, and new kinds
of fodder, to all of which Harris listened with
easy distrust in the large profits which were
flaunted enthusiastically before his eyes. He
held some portion of glebe land, where he
now had sheep, and his aim was to reduce his
rent. The major would have yielded even in
the very height of triumphant proving how
greatly the land had been improved, but the
rector, perhaps braced by remembrance of his
wife, was disposed to hold out. He would
have liked to have said that his son would
walk over and talk about matters, but his
pride had been too much wounded to allow
this. He half gave way, at the same time postponing
his decision, and Harris lounged outwith
them to the gate, his hands in his
pockets, and a general air of indifference and
want of energy about him which is not unknown

in west country agriculture. He
admired the mare, but with a doubtful
hesitation, and the rector and his brother-in-law
drove homewards somewhat crestfallen.
When they had gone half a mile 'Mx. Lawrence
pulled up.

I've half a mind to go round by Win-borough
copse,' he said. ' It's a goodish while
since I've looked at it, and with the weather
so fine we shall get the view at its best.'

The major assented, and turning back fora
hundred yards, they struck into another
lane and went slowly up a long hill. At the
top of this hill the view they were in search
of broke upon them  a fair and smiling
expanse of wood and valley and softly swelling
hills, sweeping away until it melted into
the beautiful and dusky outline of the moor.
But it was not earth which claimed their
attention, but the sunset glory of the heavens.
Spreading from the west right across the sky

lay countless ranks of tiny clouds, each
touched by the rosy light of the moment,
their infinite perspective opening such a vast
idea of distance as mind refused to grasp,
their exquisite and delicately varying colour
almost satisfying desire. Nothing, indeed,
could exceed the loveliness of this colour,
resting, as it did, upon a clear background of
sky, and all the details of country, wood and
river, which usually attracted attention, were
lost sight of in its intense beauty. On the
right side of the road was the copse which
gave its name to the hill, and on the left, just
where the rector drew up, was a gate, which,
partly off its hinges, and more than three
parts open, led into a field, at the further end
of which a few sheep were grazing.

The two men sat and looked at the sunset,
silent. The first to break this silence, perhaps
involuntarily, was the rector, and he said
under his breath what might have been

thought a strange thing. ' !My God,' he muttered,
'what am I, that I should preach to
them ! ' And then they were silent again,
watching the faint shifting and brightening of
the rosy tints. But there was always something
for Tim Macarthy to do.

If the gate is left open those sheep will
be all over the place,' he said. 'I'll just get
down and put it right.'

He was standing up with his foot on the
wheel when a pheasant rose in the wood with
a whirr, startled probably by Toby, who was
hunting about on his own account. The
sudden noise frightened the mare out of her
senses ; the rector had been sitting carelessly
with dropping reins, and she wheeled round
and dashed through the gate. The major
was flung out, but clear of the wheel, the
other wheel ran up a bank, and upset the
cart, the rector falling underneath ; and the
post of the gate preventing the mare from

dragging the cart through, she became Literally
frantic with terror, kicking and plunging
with all her might to rid herself of what was
behind.

Major Macarthy picked himself up in a
moment, not seriously hurt, but shaken and
slightly confused. If this had not been so he
might have rushed to the horse's head, but
he was only clear enough to take in that the
rector, lying as it seemed at the very heels of
the animal, was in the utmost danger, and for
Tim to understand this meant to fling himself
into the danger, and without a thought of his
own peril, try to drag out his brother-in-law's
body. At this he worked away, until he
received a kick on the left shoulder which
knocked him down, and caused him exquisite
pain. Struggling to his feet, and almost
despairing of getting the rector clear, he tried
with his one available hand to cut the nearest
trace, and succeeded. But as he did it and

OD

stooped for a last effort, the mare struck outwith
even more frantic force, knocked him
over, extricated herself from all but a portion
of the cart, and dashed wildly through the
gate with this trailing behind her.

Where but a minute before had been
violent struggling, all was still. The two men
lay in the road, Mr. Lawrence still half buried
beneath the pieces and splinters of the dogcart,
Tim Macarthy lying on his back, arms
outstretched, face up, turned to the sunset
clouds. The hoofs of the flying mare were
no longer heard, the terrified sheep, which,
as she came rushing towards them, had
scampered to a far corner of the field, were
now huddled there together, too frightened to
move  it was all absolutely, ominously still.
Presently Toby, who Iliad been led away by
the revival of old temptations, came back,
shamefaced and depressed. He scrambled
over the hedge, panting, became aware of

some strange condition of things, and advanced
slowly, with head forward and low.
Finding that it was indeed his master who lay-there
in this unaccustomed fashion, motionless
and rigid, the dog sniffed over him
uneasily, then ran to Mr. Lawrence and made
quicker examination, v/ith no better results.
Then he went back to his chief friend, stood
with paws on his chest, and ears inquiringly
pricked, and licked his face  for was it
perhaps a Play, a game which was being
acted for his benefit, and in which he should
fulfil his part? He drew back with short
uneasy bark, and stood with fore-legs advanced,
ready to spring. ' Wake up, master,
you have had your surprise ! I know all
about it, and am waiting. Wake up, wake
up!'

No voice answering, he grew more disturbed.
Here was man  master and benefactor
 lying inert, horse vanished, and only

he left to give help. He ran once more to Mr.
Lawrence and scratched violently at his arm.
This producing no better result than the rest,
he sat down, lifted this nose in the air, and
howled dismally with all this might. But as
lie was a small dog, his appeal for aid could
not be heard far, and did not bring the help
he wanted. Next he got up and ran a little
way along the road, and came back whining,
and Hacked Major Macarthy's hand, as if to ask
for directions ; none coming, he stood irresolute,
one paw in the air, and then set off as
fast as legs could carry, to seek for help, leaving
the two behind him motionless still, the
rector heaped together with harness and fragments,
and the major lying with his face to
the sunset sky, in which the lights had
already somewhat faded.

That best portion of a good man's life,
His little nameless, unremembered acts
Of kindness and of love.  Wordsworth.

Must at the time that Mr. Lawrence
and Major Macarthy drew rein to
look at the view from the to23 of
the hill, Nelly Lawrence and Lucy were
climbing the steep street which led from the
landing-place upwards. The two girls had
been out on the river, and, beautiful as it
had been there, they were mutually glad to
have got it over. Lucy found it wearisome
without George, and Nelly and she had
few mutual subjects of conversation. Parish

details appeared trifling to her, while what
she had to say in no way interested her
companion. They had long silences ; once,
indeed, Lucy had slept. She was rather
cross at having missed her tea, and only the
self-restraint of appearances led her into
occasional observations, as they toiled up
between the cottages and their gardens, still
gay, though looking a little more ragged in
growth.

Before a red cob cottage, which had a
great outer chimney running up from the
ground, a beautiful curve of thatch over a
gable, and a fuchsia-bush reaching to the
upper windows, Xelly stopped, saying there
was a child there, ill, whom she wanted to see.

You won't mind going home by yourself,
will you?' she added.

Lucy did not mind at all, rather she went
on more briskly. She greatly preferred Mrs.

 Mud and straw.

Lawrence to her daughter ; indeed, she was
honestly fond of Mrs. Lawrence, king her
hkmg, and conscious of possessing her good
wishes for what she was growing to have very
much at heart. The sunset lights were all
aflame, but she paid no great heed to them,
nor to the soft shadows they cast upon the
grass as she turned through the rectory gate,
and ran up the steps. The instant she opened
the study door, she saw that something agitated
Mrs. Lawrence; she was walking up and
down uneasily, and she looked anxiously at
the girl.

'Is Nelly here? Have you heard anything
of the dog-cart ? '

No  nothing. Haven't they come back ? '

'No.'

You're not uneasy about that ? Dear
Mrs. Lawrence, it's quite early  they may
have gone farther  there can't be the least
reason for alarm ! '

She kissed her affectionately as she spoke,
and the wife, with a smile and sigh at her
own weakness, sat down in the chair to which
Lucy drew her.

I don't know what has come to me
to-day  I believe I am quite foolishly nervous,'
she said. ' George's words have been
ringing in my head, and then it irritated me
to hear that Tim Macarthv had gone instead
of Xelly  I could have trusted her to look
after her father  and now I dare say the time
has seemed longer than it really was, sitting
here alone, with those dreadful birds coming
to the window and tapping.'

Oh, poor little things,' said Lucy, laughing.
' They wanted their tea as much as I. I
wish I had stayed at home with you, and
given it to them.'

I wish they had never been encouraged
to come into the house,' returned Mrs. Lawrence,
quickly. ' Is the clock on the mantel-vol.

II. E

piece right ? I know Major Macarthy was
meddling with it.'

Lucy compared it With her watch. ' It
is quite right. A quarter-past six.'

They have had plenty of time to go and
come back. But, as you say, they may have
g'oiie elsewhere. Neither of them would consider
the time. Where did Nelly take you ? '

Lucy was neatly folding her veil, and
placing it with her hat on the broad shelf
of the book-case. She was thinking about
George, and her anxieties were for his return,
but she did her best to amuse his mother
with an account of their row on the river,
and with anything else she could think of.
She took up a little case of miniatures at last,
and asked who they Averse.

That is the rector,' said Mrs. Lawrence,
and those were cousins of his  sisters.'

'Isn't she pretty? '

Oh no, quite the reverse. I think she

was the plainest woman I ever saw, and her
complexion was like liquorice. But in spite
of that, she was very much in love with my
husband. There !  don't I hear wheels ? '

She started up and went to the door.
Lucy had to follow and soothe her as best she
could, for there seemed no reasonable cause
for her alarm, and indeed, she acknowledged
this herself, while unable to take comfort
from the knowledge.

If only George were here ! ' she exclaimed
more than once. Then she wished for Xelly,
and her restlessness and nervousness became
so painful that Lucy was thankful when Xelly
walked in.

She treated the matter as if it were the
most natural thing in the world, and for a
time succeeded in quieting her mother ; yet,
as time went on, Lucy fancied that she, too,
grew uneasy. She went out of the room
more than once, on the pretext of satisfying

R 2

Mrs. Lawrence's fancies as to wheels, and one
of these times she ran for a little distance
along the road, and coming back, met the
stable-boy also on the look-out. It was on
her lips to despatch him to the farm at Stoke,
but she changed her mind, and only told him
not to be out of the way when he was wanted.
When she returned to the house, however,
she found her mother possessed by the same
idea.

Somebody should be sent,' she declared
feverishly ; ' somebody must go over and find
out whether they have ever been at the farm.
I can't think why nobody has thought of this
before. Nelly, will you see to it at once ? '

To Lucy's surprise, Nelly did not argue the
question. She only asked 

Shall I ride over myself, or send William?'


Go yourself  no, I don't know, you maybe
wanted  oh, I can't tell ! ' she cried, with a

burst of impatience. 'Do something  somebody,
that is all I ask ! '

Lucy, really frightened by her evident
alarm, stole to her side and took her hand;
Nelly stood in the middle of the room, gravely
considering. As she turned at length, the
door which she had left ajar was pushed open,
and Toby, muddy, panting, and excited, ran
into the room.

The dog was never allowed to come into
the house, and it was plain to all that there
was something significant in his unusual
action. He ran to Xelly, whined uneasily,
and then went back to the door, where he
stood, evidently waiting for her to follow.
Nelly turned pale and looked at her mother ;
Mrs. Lawrence had been pale before, now her
face was ashen, but she had regained her self-command.


The dog has come to fetch you, and you
had better go yourself, and let William, and

any men you can see in the village, follow as
fast as they can. Or stay ; it may be better
for William to go for the doctor. Everything
shall be ready here. One of the maids had
better run to the Wyatt', and ask for their
carriage.'

She gave these directions in a clear
distinct voice, and Nelly silently nodded, and
went quickly to the door, but as she reached
it turned and came quickly back.

Don't  don't fear the Avorst, mother,' she
said brokenly.

Go, my dear, go ; I shall be well taken
care of,' said Mrs. Lawrence, pushing her
slightly towards the door, Toby, who had
been whining miserably, now barking for joy.
William, the stable-boy, was standing on the
steps, with a scared face.

I couldn't stop 'un, miss ; he bolted right
into the house. Looks as if something was
wrong,' he said anxiously.

Put my saddle on the cob, and then go
for Dr. James.'

Xelly gave her directions shortly, angry
with herself for needing any help in the
saddling, which she coidd generally do more
quickly than William, but she was shaking now
with excitement, and could not buckle the
births without difficulty. All this time the
dog kept close by her, as if understanding that
what was being done was not really loss of
time ; and the instant she was up he ran gladly
forwards, looking back at intervals to see that
she was following, when here and there she
stopped at a cottage and got what men she
could find to run behind and see which road
he took.

Meanwhile, at the rectory, Mrs. Lawrence's
energy had not flinched. She called the
servants, sent one to the Wyatt' for the carriage,
bidding them find out at some of the
cottages which way Nelly had taken. Everything

was thought of, beds prepared, hot
water got ready ; the energetic measures
seemed to still the impatient restlessness of
the past hour, and Lucy followed, amazed at
the strength she displayed. But directly
action stopped because nothing remained todo,
and they were downstairs again, waiting
and watching, she flagged and broke down.
Nothing that the girl could urge, quieted her.
It was impossible for her to sit down.
She went from room to room, from hall to
study, from study to drawing-room, then to
the open door, where  for the dusk was
gathering  the autumnal air struck in damp
and chill. Lucy, frightened at this exposure,
did her utmost to draw her back, but her
words had no power, Mrs. Lawrence either
did not hear or would not heed them. She
talked, however, incessantly.

After a time she insisted over and over
again that she heard wheels and voices. The

voices, no doubt, existed, for by this time
alarm had spread, and men and women both *
were hanging about the rectory gate, or
hurrying by to join in the search. ' They
would do anything for the rector,' sirs.
Lawrence said once suddenly, almost sharply,
to Lucy. But of wheels there was no sound,
except once when a heavy cart lumbered by,
and her breathless anxiety became intense ;
and when the strain of listening ceased because
the creaking noise of the wheels, and the heavy
voice of the carter, died away in the distance,
she appeared almost beside herself,
and frightened the girl. Then, too, she began
to want to go out into the drive, and only
yielded to Lucy's imploring entreaties when
the girl offered to go herself, and after that
Lucy had frequently to run out, until she
became so frightened and chilled that she
scarcely knew what she was about or how
much time had passed.

Once she followed Mrs. Lawrence into the
study, and found her sitting in the chair at the
writing-table, shaken by tearless and convulsive
sobs.

Oh, Mrs. Lawrence, don't, don't ! ' Lucy
cried, terrified almost to distraction. 'It
mayn't be anything very bad.'

Yes, it is. I know it  I feel it here  in
my heart.' She turned up a white wan face
to the girl. ' George warned me, and if I had
only been more careful  instead of irritating
him  he could always be led '

'It may not be Mr. Lawrence at all,*
hazarded the other. 'Perhaps Major Mac-earthy
is hurt.'

Tim ? ' Mrs. Lawrence almost smiled.
Oh, you needn't suppose that ; he always
contrives to fall on his legs ! No, it is
Henry. I knew those dreadful birds would
bring some misfortune.' She got up and
for the twentieth time went and stared at

the clock. ' How many hours have they been
gone ? '

Not hours. Not an hour.'

I hear  I am certain I hear something ! '

This time she was right. There were
sounds, unmistakable sounds, and she put
aside Lucy's detaining hand and ran out, but
stopped on the steps, helpless. It was almost
dark, and through the oatherins crloom someone,
a man, was riding up to the door. It
was the rector. He turned to look round,
and then got stiffly off. His wife, who was
leaning against the door-post, uttered an inarticulate
cry, and he hobbled up and kissed
her, still holding the reins.

Frightened, Fanny ? ' he said in a strangely
changed, dub voice. 'Yes, I'm afraid, I'm
afraid it's a bad business, though they wouldn't
tell me.'

You  are you hurt ? ' She was changing
to him.

Only a bit knocked about. It's Tim, old
Tim  oh, my God ! '

He staggered and dropped the reins. The
cob shook himself and went round to the
stable. With the man's need the wife's
control came back.

Come in, Henry,' she entreated, drawing
a lonii breath. ' We have sent for Dr.
James. He cannot be long. Everything will
be done.'

He is with them. He met us. It was
all my cursed carelessness ! ' He shuddered,
but suffered himself to be drawn into the hall,
leaning on her shoulder. Lucy flew upstairs
again to see that all was ready and candles
lit, but as she was coming down again stood
grasping the baluster rail. There was the
sound of wheels. What was it that had come ?
Her nerves were shaken by the strain of
watching Mrs. Lawrence, and infected by her
anxiety, she was shivering too, as much from

cold as from terror. The carriage stopped.
Then came the noise of heavy shuffling feet,
of low voices. She crept down to the hall.
Some one was stretching up to pull down
the bolt and to open the second half of the
front door, there were more steps, and the
next moment the hall seemed full of figures.
No one heeded her, and hardly a word was
spoken ; the doctor gaveja few directions and
Nelly ran quickly upstairs ; then four men,
with their burden, followed her, the hall
seemed to be suddenly cleared, to have
nothing left but dim shadows  awfully suggestive.
Mrs. Lawrence had drawn her
husband back into the drawing-room ; he
sank heavily upon a chair, with a groan.

Are you sure you are not much hurt ? '
she asked anxiously.

Sure ? I'm sure of nothing,' he muttered.
No, Fanny, I don't think there's much amiss
with me. I wish there were,' he added.

Don't don't ! '

Tim was worth a dozen of me,' lie persisted
doggedly. Then he leant forward,
holding his head with his hands. She hardly
dared ask another question, but the silence,
only broken by sounds overhead, kept all her
nerves at an almost unendurable strain. She
said at last 

Tell me something. Was he  was Tim
driving ? '

The rector lifted his head and stared at her.

No  don't you understand that I was the
fool ? I was sitting with the reins loose on the
mare's neck, when she wheeled round like a
shot. Has anything been heard of her ? '

She shook her head.

'Then how did you know? How came
you to send ? '

The dog came back. It was wonderful.
Evidently he wanted some one to go with
him.'

The rector raised his hands. ' I micrht
have thought it,' he said. 'It was only
another of Tim's friends. God help us !
When will James be down ? Where's
George ? '

Gone to Plymouth.'

Oh, ay, I remember. And left word I
was not to drive the mare. He knew me
better than I knew myself  but he should
not have said that.'

The sting still rankled.

He did not, he did not ! ' cried his wife,
in tears. ' It was m} ungracious way of
putting it. Don't you know how often I
speak like that ? '

He took her hand in his, and patted it.

'There, there, don't cry, Fanny. He' 
with a motion of his head  ' he was the one to
smooth over think's. The sweetest, kindest

nature ' He stopped, half choked, and

leaned back in the great leathern chair, looking

so ghastly in the climly-ht room that she
started up and went hastily to the door.

When will Dr. James come ? I am sure
you want him. I would get you another
coat, for your own is torn in strips, but I
can't leave the room, and not a servant comes
near one ! ' Then she came back to his side.
Do lie down ! '

I am very well here. Only confused
with the blow on my head, and the bruises.
Tim was getting down when it happened, and
got pitched out. Then the cart turned over
with me under, and I don't know any more,
till  till I came to myself and crawled out,
and there he was lying  on his back.'

Where was the mare ? ' asked Mrs.
Lawrence in a low voice.

No sign of her.'

But  just being thrown out  surely that
would not  would not '

He groaned. ' No, it was more than that.

I've thought it over, and I can see it all as
plainly as if I had been told. The cart was
stuck in the gate with me under it, and the
mare, pretty well out of her senses, pounding
away at what was behind her. I expect it
was she disabled my leg. Tim had his knife
in his hand  open, and a trace was cut  he
did that  to save my life, and it cost him his
own  dear old fellow ! ' The words ended ina
sob, but the next moment he said eagerly,
Here's James I '

The doctor himseK looked like one who
had received a shock. ' I should have come
before,' he said, ' but Miss Xelly wanted a
little looking after. She has been very much
upset by this terrible business.'

Is there no  no ' faltered ]vii's.

Lawrence.

No hope ?  None. Death was in all
probability instantaneous  caused by a blow,
a very heavy blow, I should suppose a kick.

VOL. II. S

I dare say you will be able to tell us something,
Mr. Lawrence,' lie went on gravely,
but I must have a look at you first. Your
knee is hurt, I see. Can you walk ? Well,
then, we will try to get you upstairs.'

Lucy, who was really exhausted and
terrified, had flown to her room, and with
some difficulty had got hold of Martin, who
brought her some tea, and tried to persuade
her to lie down, being desirous herself of
returning to the tears and wondering comments
of the kitchen, where several of the
men who had assisted in the finding, had
gathered. But the girl was too feverishly
anxious for this, and all that Martin could do
was to pour out what she had been able to
hear, and more, which an innate desire to pile
horror upon horror, created. When the men
got to the place, she said, they found the
rector crying like a child, and Miss Nelly
down on her knees by her uncle, trying to

raise him. But they said all of them saw how
it was the moment they looked at him. bliss
Xelly had been fainting away, and like one
distracted ever since she came home. By-and-by
she reported that the rector was in
his room, and Morrison had told her that
he was in a very low way, and Dr. James
thought very badly of him. Lucy sent her
out again to gather what crumbs of information
she could, but by this time William the
stable-boy had come in with the news that
the mare had been heard of, and martin was
so much interested in all he had to say that
she did not return. Lucy grew sick and cold
with solitude and suspense, until at last she
could bear it no longer, and shipping on a
cloak ran out into the passage and down the
stairs to see if hs. Lawrence was in the study.
Each room was empty, and looked strangely
unoccupied ; so that she shrank back, and
crept half-way up the stairs again. She did

Snot

know where to go, no one needed her,
and the house seemed full of dreadful things ;
she wanted some pity, some sympathy, for
herself. If the doctor came out, he might
give it to her ; at any rate, would tell her
something. So she sat down on the stairs
and waited, hearing hurrying feet in the
passages above, and the opening and shutting
of doors, but otherwise left in solitude.

A quarter of an hour later came the
sound of wheels. Some one ran up the steps,
opened the door, closed it again, and stood
for a moment in the hall, looking round as if
uncertain where next to go. In the confusion
the lamp had not been lit, and the hall was
full of dark shadows faintly pierced by the
dim light which stole out through the open
doors of the sitting-rooms. It was plain that
they were empty, and George Lawrence,
dragging off his coat and driving-gloves, was
going upstairs two steps at a time when a

dark white-faced figure rose up before him
and caught his arm.

Oh, Mr. Lawrence ! ' cried Lucy,
piteously.

He could perceive that she was trembling
all over, and in the shadow she looked very
small and wan, while he felt that she had gone
through all the awful trouble he had been
out of. A great pity seized him.

Yes, I know  I have just heard  don't
try to tell me," he said gently, holding her
hand in his. ' You ought not to be here, you
poor child  you are shivering.'

 It is all so dreadful ! ' she murmured
brokenly.

Isn't there a fire in the study r Come
let me take you there first.'

She made a step forward obediently, then
clung to his arm 

I can't  I am shaking so  I will stay
here while you go to them.'

No,' he said decidedly ; ' you mustn't
stay here. Now try.'

He put his arm round her, and half
helped, half carried her down the stairs,
placed her in the great arm-chair, and
wheeled it over to the fire, now become very
low. As he did this his mother appeared at
the door, and stood still in astonishment.

George,' she exclaimed, ' I heard wheels,
but you did not come ! '

I found this poor child half perished on
the stairs,' he said gravely. ' I should have
been with you in another minute.'

The momentary pang of jealousy passed.
Mrs. Lawrence came forward and kissed the
girl fondly.

No one has thought of her,' she said, ' and
she was so much to me through that terrible
time of waiting! Oh, George, what it has
been ! '

Instead of answering, he drew over another

clair for his mother, made up the fire, and
rang the belL

You must both have something to eat,'
he said.

Mrs. Lawrence shook her head.

You must  here by the fire ; and keep
something" hot for me. I am g-oimx upstairs.'

To your father P '

He did not directly answer. ' How is my
father ? ' he asked.

Dr. James insists upon absolute quiet.
Don't let him exert himself, George. He
was stunned and his knee was injured, but it
is more the shock which the doctor dreads.
If you will be very careful, I will stay here fora
short time with Lucy. Everything is in a
whirl of confusion in my head. And there is
poor Xelly I '

It seemed as if she could not speak of the
chief trouble, but neither could she rest.
Lucy, impatient of her own weariness, and

longing either to be in bed or that George
would come again, watched her pacing up
and down the room with restless tired energy.
Once she flung back the shutter and looked
out. A breeze had sprung up, and the
clouds, which at sunset had lain like ripples
on a vast sea, were now hurrying across the
sky, touched into silver light by the moon ;
the black masses of the trees flung long
shadows on the grass. What did she see
besides What harsh judgments, what sharp
words rise up  God forgive us !;  at such
hours ! Mrs. Lawrence hastily closed the
shutters and came and sat down by Lucy,
trembling. Presently, as she looked at the
girl, something seemed to strike her.

You look very white, my dear,' she said.
George was right. Where did he find you ? '

I was sitting? on the stairs. I thought
perhaps I should see Dr. James, and hear
about you all.'

'Dr. James left some time aero. Poor
Lucy,' said Mrs. Lawrence, tenderly, ' this is a
sad experience upon which you have fallen !
I am glad that George came and found you.'

He was very good to me,' said Lucy.

'He would be  he should be. I don't
think he would fail any one in such distress,
and certainly not '

She paused. It had been on her lips to
say more, for all she had seen, that evening,
had confirmed her previous impression.
What stopped her was rather the sense of
that Presence in the house, that hush which
seemed to rest upon word and action, than
the hesitation of doubt. Lucy, who had been
leaning eagerly forward, sank back again.
Mrs. Lawrence began to speak in broken sentences
of what had happened.

That it should be Tim ! ' she said hastily ;
that is what I can't understand  it never
seemed possible that anything so terrible

should happen. He has had so many escapes
and always came out safely.'

He was trying to save Mr. Lawrence,
wasn't he?' Lucy asked wearily. Mrs. Lawrence
started up from her chair as she spoke,
as if the words stung her.

Oh, my God ! ' she groaned.

Just then Morrison brought in coffee, and
she consented to sit doAvn again, and to drink
it, more to please Lucy, who was exhausted
for want of food, than because she was
herself inclined to take it. And at the end
of a few minutes she hastily got up and said
she must go and look after Nelly and Mr.
Lawrence.

'I shall send George down,' she added.
See that he has some food.'

He did not immediately come, and Lucy
lay back in her chair, having coaxed the fire
into genial warmth, and thinking a good deal
of Mrs. Lawrence's interrupted speech. The

first shock had passed, and her own self-consciousness
was taking its prominent place
again. Still, when George came in, the lookin
his face for the moment chased it back.
He smiled, however, when he saw her.

Come, this is better,' he said kindly. ' I
was afraid you were going to be ill.'

It was very silly,' she answered, ' but
you can't think how dreadful it was to
hear nothing, and to feel oneself of no use
whatever.'

My mother says, on the contrary, that
you were the greatest comfort to her. It was
most unfortunate that I should have been
away.'

How is Vir. Lawrence ? '
He is awfully cut up, and so is poor
Kelly.' He turned away, so that she could
not see his face. ' There isn't a soul in the
place but will miss him.'

Oh, I know, I know ! ' All the best part

in her was uppermost again. ' I wish you
knew how sorry I am for you all ! '

Thank you. I am sure of it.'

He said it very simply, but she read
a good deal in the words, and her heart
beat.

Was  was it true that it was in helping
Mr. Lawrence ? '

I dare say  I don't doubt it. I dare say
that will come out at the inquest, but my
father seems to have no doubt about it ; and
it would be just like him, dear old fellow!'
he added, unconsciously repeating the rector's
words.

At least,' she said softly, ' he did not
suffer.'

No  thank God ! There's no suffering in
his face. He might be asleep. And there's
the dog, curled up. I don't know how he'll
be got away, unless  yes, perhaps he'll go to
Nelly. Poor Nell ! '

His thoughts were with the dead  not
with her : she began to think how she micrht
draw them back, but he went on 

Xell and my father always did him
justice. My father says there was never anyone
so loved. And to think that just one

minute, one ' he got up and began to walk

about the room as his mother had done.
Then he came back and stood looking down
on her. ' It's very hard on you.'
'What?'

To be mixed up with our trouble.'
Don't  please don't say that ! '
Well,' he said with a smile, ' I won't.
Women are so made, I believe, that it's a real
pleasure to them to comfort others.'

They were silent again. His thoughts
had flown off for a moment's respite to Xorma,
hers were occupied on him. He sat down in
front of the fire, took the poker, and attacked
a large piece of coal.

Are you sure you are warm now ? ' he
asked.

Quite. Is the evening really chilly, or is
it only the  the shock ? '

It changed a little after sunset. Did you
see that sunset? My father says they were
looking at it when all this happened.'

'I believe Mrs. Lawrence begged them
not to drive that horse,' Lucy said timidly.

'I ought to have stopped it more
decidedly,' he said very gravely. 'I blame
myself  I shall always blame myself. It hurt
my father to have it supposed that there was
danger, but that should not have stood in the
way.'

She said hastily  ' Oh, you mustn't dwell
on that ! '

Mustn't I ? ' He appeared to consider.
'I don't suppose I shall, after a time. It
doesn't take long to jostle one's remorse out
of the field, or  it doesn't with me. I haven't

Mrs. Winyeatt's tender conscience.' For the
life of him he could not resist this allusion.


It was not more than Lucy had often
heard before, but something in the tone, or, as
is rather likely, in her own wrought feelings,
and in the circumstances about her, brought
his love for Xorma home to her with a
conviction that was absolutely new. If he
had looked at her he might have been startled
by the straining terror in her eyes. All that
her vanity had whispered, her self-love had
cherished, was in that moment struck into
nothingness, and the effect was no longer
what it would once have been. It was more
than mortification, it seemed while it lasted
to stop the beating of her heart. When
Lawrence, who had been staring moodily into
the fire, looked round, he was struck by the
extreme pallor of her face.

I ought not to keep you here,' he said,

starting up ; ' you are not fit for it. Let me
light your candle.'

She assented silently, for she felt like a
person stunned, and the room reeled round as
she walked to the door.

Shall I call your maid ? Can you go to
your room by yourself ? ' demanded Lawrence,
anxiously.

Five minutes before, how sweet this
anxiety would have been !

Thank you,' she said, trying to steady
herself, ' I can manage very well. Goodnight.'


Blessed is the man who lias the gift of making friends. It
involves many things ; but, above all, the power of going out
of one's self, and seeing and approaching whatever is noble
and living in another man.  Thomas Hughes.

Y the next day the rector was better,
and resenting his wife's endeavour
to keep him upstairs, hobbled
downstairs, and sat in his study writing.
Nelly's physical strength also asserted itself,
and, miserable as she was, she would not consent
to spare herself. It was she, and she
only, who could coax poor Toby away from
the room where he kept his faithful watch,
but more than once he broke away from her,
and would sit at the door with bent head,

VOL. II. T

listening, until some one took pity on him
and let him in.

George Lawrence had much to do and
many arrangements to make, the more so as
the rector had lost his self-reliant manner, and
turned to him for all decisions. Early in the
morning the mare was brought home, a good
deal cut about the hind-legs, but otherwise
unhurt. And in the course of the day there
was the inquest, to which it was necessary the
rector should be driven, the doctor coming to
fetch him in his carriage. And from this time
forward one long stream of people came dropping
in at the rectory, making their way
upstairs to the place where the man who had
loved them lay. When Mrs. Lawrence first
gathered what the sounds overhead meant,
she started up, but her husband laid his hand
on her arm.

Let be, Fanny ; let be. It is what he
would have wished.'

'But  I saw that great bold Ida Comes
pass by ! Is everyone to go up ? '

Everyone. It is his last speaking to
them. Xelly is there, and I think George ;
they will see that there is nothing disorderly,
but I have no fear. I wish when I die I
might have such mourners,' he went on,
breaking down at his last words.

George Lawrence never forgot that afternoon.
The little room, barely furnished,
faced the west ; the sun was already sinking,
and Tim ]\Iacarthy lay facing it, on his narrow
iron bed. Xo illness had wasted the features,
and if any suggestion of weakness had marred
them while he v\'as living, death, which brings
out what is best and greatest in a man,
now showed them touched with a hicrh

o

nobility. The people came up by twos and
threes  old women, old men. strong* weatherbeaten
fishermen, little children. The men
stood, looking gravely down, twirling their

T 2

caps between their horny fingers; they had
given up their fishing to come and see him
once more. The women pressed forward to
lay flowers on the white sheet, and, as they
did so, broke  many of them  into sobs.
Not one of them but had a good word for
him, some act of kindness to telL The boy
for whom he had made the crutches was there.
Old Tom Fredericks, surly as ever, had
crawled painfully up from the Creek. A
woman came hurriedly in and knelt down by
his bed-side.

I was the last of you as spoke to 'un,' she
said, ' an' I was that hard ! He told me I
should be sorry for it when tomorrow came,
an' God knows whether I'm sorry or no ! But
that won't bring him back.'

No, there's the sting.

All through that afternoon the people
came and went. They had shown no hesitation
from the first  it was as if he had

belonged to them, and they were his mourners
by right. As the news spread up and down
the river, they came from Eivermouth, from
Stanford, from the little fishing villages
where his face lead been familiar. Xelly
broke down at last and went away sobbing,
but George, unutterably touched, stayed on
and watched the solemn sunset lights once
more rest like a glory on the face of the deadman.
Cottage flowers were strewn all over
him, without regard to colour or arrangement ;
the best roses, the finest head of cranium
from the window-pots, shells and sea-weed,
little faded bunches, glued together by the
hot clasp of a child's hand.

It was dusk before the last man went
away. He was a fisherman from a distance, and
when he had looked for some time he turned
to Lawrence and put out his hand.

Good-evening', and thank 'ee, sir,' he said.
This here's the first time him and me ever

met that he hadn't a kind word to say tome.'


And then he too went. The dog, who
had been in the room, miserable and uneasy,
all the time, ran after him to the door, and
came back Whining piteously. Some one
came in, lit the candles, and drew down the
blind, which had been purposely raised.
George went and stood by the bedside, in
his turn gazing. This then was death, that
strange familiar presence, part of ourselves,
and yet, in spite of the heritage of ages, alien,
incomprehensible ! Cold, rigid, senseless,
uncommunicative. Was this all ? Spite of
faith, spite of reason, the question will come,
will force itself upon us with affright, at the
time when we are brought face to face with
ourselves as we shall be. It rose up before
George Lawrence now, but even as it rose, in
the very smile of the dead man there came
the conviction of the triumph of life. It was

life not death which he had seen in that room
that day  life, quickening other life, as only-life
can ; dead, he yet spoke, and his spirit
was among them. George smiled back at
him as he covered his face with the sheet and
went out.

Lucy had spent a wretched day. She
was really ill with the strain and the chill of
the previous day, but she was also miserable.
Hitherto she had managed to persuade herself
that what she had made up her mind to like
actually existed ; she had persisted that Lawrence's
feeling for Norma was no more than a
passing fancy, in which she at any rate shared.
But whether from her own feelings having
deepened, or that when we are brought, as
she had been brought the preceding day, face
to face with a great reality, the shams and
littleness in which we encase ourselves fall
away and leave us more open to receive truth 
from one cause or another, Lawrence's few

words bad come upon her with a force which
she could not resist. Whether or no Norma
would listen to him was another matter.
Once, indeed, it had seemed all-important,
but not now ; now, it was his attitude, his love
which was all. This love, which, unattainable,
had suddenly grown the most precious
thing in the whole world, haunted, possessed,
mocked her. On ne racine pas avec Vam.oui\
it will revenge itself upon those that slight it,
it tossed poor Lucy about like a shuttlecock.

Nor could she escape. No one wanted
her except Mrs. Lawrence, and she could
hardly endure to be with George's mother,
knowing, as she did, what was in her mind
as to her son. And Mrs. Lawrence was
greatly taken up by her husband. One little
incident of that day had upset them all.

It was five o'clock, and the rector had
been persuaded to have some tea. They were
all sitting silent in the study, when there came

a faint impatient tap upon the window-sill.
Mrs. Lawrence started and turned white. Her
husband laid down the paper he was trying to
read and looked at her.

Tim's birds,' he said in a low voice.

She hesitated, went hurriedly to the
window, drew up the blind a short way and
lifted the sash. The robins flew away, but
presently the boldest returned, hopped into the
room, and began to pick up the crumbs. Mrs.
Lawrence covered her face with her hands.

Yesterday I would not let them in,' she
said, ' and at that very time ! '

Yesterday will make us both kinder,'
said the rector thickly.

It seemed, indeed, as if it were so. Life
would recover itself, habits  whether of
speech or action  would reassert themselves,
but something there was which could not be
forgotten, something for which the men and
women about would be kindlier and better.

When the day of the funeral came, the people
crowded to the churchyard, fishermen in their
blue jerseys carried him to the quiet place
where he was to rest : the strangest mourners
were there, a child hugged a puppy the major
had saved from drowning, Toby, held by one
of the servants, strained to get nearer. All
through the day there were those who came,
and wept, and told stories of his goodness.

Mrs. Lawrence could not go, and Lucy
was glad to stay with her. The girl was
heavy-eyed and dull ; she knew that it would
be better she should go away, but her heart
failed her. She was torn by hopes and fears,
but the hopes were like ghosts of their old
selves, vanishing forms to which  do what
she would  she could not give even the semblance
of life. Such phantoms are among
the dreariest we can raise ; yet to Lucy just
now they seemed her only friends, and when
Mrs. Lawrence kissed her and said she should

be very grateful if she would stay, and make
their sad house a Httle less sad for the rector
and George, her heart leapt up to think that
for a little longer she should be near him.

He was very much engaged. All the
arrangements fell on him, and most of the
letter-writing. Major Macarthy had few relations,
such as he had were far away, but one
cousin came to the funeral, and was naturally
made over to George. Lucy did not see him
alone until one day in the following week,
when she had persuaded Mrs. Lawrence to
walk for five minutes in the garden, and after
she had gone in, stood still, looking drearily
at the dead leaves on the grass before her.
Lawrence, who was coming quickly round the
house, stopped, struck by the weariness of
her attitude and the paleness of her face.
She was changed from the somewhat brilliant
Lucy of the summer, and he felt a pang of
remorse, though it would never have occurred

to him that he had anything to do with what
he attributed entirely to the melancholy circumstances
of her visit. Still, it was their
trouble from which she suffered.

I don't like to see you alone and looking
so sad,' he said at once, ' What can we do
for you ? It seems ungracious to say that we
ought to send you away, and yet '

No. There is no " and yet," ' she said,
with an effort at brightness. 'It is your
mother who arranges her guests, and she has
told me she is not tired of me. So it is of
no use for join to throw out disagreeable

hints.'

'What would Mrs. Winyeatt say to us if
she sav you ? '

Norma ? ' said Lucy, sharply ; ' why should
Norma care ? '

The words leapt out before she knew what
she was about. She bit her lip, as she felt his
look of astonishment.

If I know her at all, it would grieve her
very much.' he said gravely.

Perhaps you don't know any of us,' said
the girl recklessly. ' Don't let us talk about
my looks. Tell me whether all your dreary
business is nearly at an end. I have not
seen you  not really seen you  for a long
while.'

There has been a crreat deal to arrange,
although the outcome is very small,' said
Lawrence. ' I could not have believed how
little it takes to form a complication. My
father is mixed up in a marvellous way.
However, I begin to see daylight.'

How glad they must be that you are
here ! '

To this he made no reply. They were
strolling along a gravel walk which led to the
kitchen garden, and he said presently 

You don't know how often I feel as if I
must see Tim coming whistling along this walk.

Every place seems full of him, but the garden
most of all. I wish poor Nelly could take
pleasure in it again. No, Miss Winyeatt, I'm
not so unselfish as I ought to be. I can't help
being very grateful that you are here. You
don't want to be told how fond my mother is
of you.'

She gave him a look, and he went
on 

A great deal of pain is added to all this
trouble, for her, because she never understood
Tim. She was worried by his harum-scarum
ways, and uneasy at his influence with my
father. And now, when we think he lost his
life in trying to save his, she reproaches
herself bitterly, and is for ever harking back
upon the little sharp speeches she may have
made.'

Lucy was not thinking of Mrs. Lawrence,
but she felt that sympathy was demanded of
her.

One can understand that so well ; but I
hope  I think she is beginning to take comfort.'


You think so ? ' he said eagerly. ' You
see my father was married before ; Tim was a
younger brother of his first wife, and there
might have been  well,' he added with a
smile, ' perhaps the best women are not
incapable of a touch of jealousy ? '

She glanced quickly at him. ' No,' she
said.

I hope you are right about it. sly
mother takes everything rather hardly, and
while she is so miserable, I hardly like having
to leave her.'

There was a minute's silence before Lucy
said in a forced voice 

Are you really going away ? '

Yes, I am. As I told you, a good many
things have to be put straight, and to do this
thoroughly I must be on the spot. Are you

tired ? Ought you to go in ? '  for she was
leaning against a trellised archway.

'Oh, no. I am only lazy, or it is the
weather, or something. Where are you going ?
To Dover ? '

She put the question so sharply that he
turned round in surprise.

'No such luck,' he returned. 'My
business is of the most prosaic kind. But
why  what made you think I was likely to
make my way to Dover? Do you recommend
it to me ? '

I ? I recommend nothing. Only  you
were speaking of Norma, so I could not tell
what you had in your head.'

No,' he said slowly. He was puzzled
by her manner, and her words seemed to
be charged with forces which he could not
explain. Her face, too, was changed, and
looked worn and  round as her cheeks were 
almost hafXard. He set it down to illness,

and walked silently by her side towards the
house. Then she put another question 

When do you go ? '

Probably in a day or two, but nothing is
fixed. Now I must be off to Stanford, for my
father will not be happy till that mare is out
of the place, and there's a man there who
wants her for riding. She is just fitted for
that. Will you forgive me for saying that I
think you ought to rest and take care of
yourself ? '

Instead, however, of leaving the house at
once, he ran upstairs to his mother's bedroom.
Mrs. Lawrence was lying in a long chair, a
book on her lap which she was not reading,
and she welcomed him with a smile. He
plunged into the subject at once.

 Mother, don't you think Miss Winyeatt
wants seeing to ? She's either ill or she's
going to be.'

VOL. IL U

111 ! ' said Mrs. Lawrence, startled.

Yes, I suppose so. Don't you notice how
changed she is  a different person from
when first she came to the rectory? And
though, no doubt, all this sad time has been a
trial, still it was not a personal sorrow, as it is
to Xelly. Yet Xelly does not show such
alteration.'

His mother glanced at him. 'I don't think
she is ill,' she said slowly.

Then why does she look as she does ? '

Sometimes girls  like other people  have
troubles which fret them.'

He appeared to consider.

Of course. But do you suppose anything
has happened since she came here ? '

' I am sure I can't tell. She has said nothing
to me which looks like it, but you must
remember, George, that girls' troubles are often
imaginary. Why don't you ask her the
question yourself '

I ? She would certainly consider me an
impertinent jackanapes.'

She would only feel that you took an
interest in her. You do that, don't you ? '

Do what ? '

Take an interest.'

Certainly ; as a friend of her brother's.'
Something of his mother's meaning had flashed
upon him, and he stood up square and uncompromising.
But having begun, she was

not to be daunted.

Only on that account ? George, I have
seen a great deal of Lucy since she has been
here, and it would make me so happy if she
were to be your wife ! '

He burst into a laugh. ' Is that what you
really were driving at ? My dear mother, if
you knew all the circumstances of the case as
well as ]\Iiss Winyeatt and I know them, you
would see the absurdity of the idea ! '

There is no absurdity

If not, there is a very serious obstacle.
There is another person.'

Yes, Lucy's sister-in-law  a woman entirely
unsuited to you.'

Why do you say that ? '

Because I have gathered enough to
judge. It will grieve me to my heart if you
throw away the happiness you might have
secured for a foolish fancy.'

Lawrence's face darkened. ' Anything buta
fooHsh fancy.'

And you told me yourself that she did
not care for you.'

Did I tell you that ? Well, I tell you
now that it would be worth while to wait all
one's life for  for the chance of winning her.'

There was an immense energy in his words,
and his mother looked at him uneasily. Here
was something against which she felt her own
obstinacy might dash itself in vain. She
nervously turned over the pages of the

book lying in her lap, and then said more
gently

It is a bitter disappointment to me.'

Ah,' he said, with a change in his own
voice which she noted, ' wait till you have
seen her ! '

No, she will never equal Lucy. Lucy
is the daughter-in-law upon idiom I have
set my heart. Who can you find more
charming ? I should be so glad to see her
happy.'

He laughed. ' Miss Winyeatt would not
thank you for such a plan of happiness.'

Why should she not ? Why should
she be averse from it P '

Because,' he said gravely, ' she is aware
of my feelings. I never made any secret of
them.'

Mrs. Lawrence sat up and said with
energy, ' I believe you are altogether mistaken,
George.'

'I am not, I assure you. Indeed, I couldn't
be. I must be off; and I don't know that this
has been a very satisfactory talk, unless it
disabuses you of fancies which I had no idea
existed. Good-bye, mother ; take care of yourself.
By the way, I must run up to London
in a day or two.'

On business connected with '

Yes,' he said briefly. He did not tell her
that there were debts to be paid, and if she
suspected she would not ask. After he left
her, she stayed, thinking, and a good deal
perplexed.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

G.

rUINTED BY

sosYooDR and co., new-studious' square

LONDON

Guardian,

Monthly at all Booksellers' and Reagents', price Is.
*Who does not welcome "Temple Bare' John Bull.

PRICE ONE SHILLING.

W  AloiflmlaJiZEfifcrlffiiiaiid CflarlrjiJdffs.
il uni nn

VOL 00.

NO. 000

IJl BICHA80 BENTLEY & Soe, NEW SORHNGTOfl ST.,

3] Bill

'2

temple Bar " is sparkling and brilliant. It might command a
constituency by its fiction alone, but it takes so much care of its more
solid matter that, if there were no stories at all, there is enough to
interest the reader.'  English Independent.

A Magazine for the Million' standard.

Richard BENTLEY & SOX, New Burlington Street, London.

Monthly at all Booksellers and Reagents', price \s.
THE

 Who does not welcome TEMPLE BAR ? 'john Bull.

PRICE ONE SHILLING.

TEMPLE BAR is always good' St. Staples's Review. 

'TEMPLE BAR is exceedingly readable' Society.

TEMPLE BAR has capital contributions fiction, fact, and fancy' The World.

TEMPLE BAR continues to sustain the high prestige which belongs to it.'

County Gentleman,
TEMPLE BAR contains Biographical Notices.

TEMPLE BAR contains Short Stories complete in each number.

the ever-welcome story tellers of TEMPLE Bar' Jewish "World.

TEMPLE BAR very happily unites the best contents of the magazine as it was
known and flourished a decade and more since with the features which readers demand
in the modem review. The result is very happy.'  Sporting and Dramatic.

TEMPLE BAR is invariably good. It is renowned for its high-class fiction.'

Bolton Gtjardiax.
TEMPLE BAR is the most readable of magazines' Pall Mall Gazette.

'TEMPLE BAR is of all English magazines the one which most cunningly blends
fiction nth fact' Figaro.

TEMPLE BAR is as good a? usual. Few keep their level more equally.'

Spectator, July 11, 1885.
'TEMPLE BAR'S Biographical Papers are always interesting' Glasgow Herald.

TEMPLE BAR contains Literary Articles.

Essays of the TEMPLE BAR type, solid yet vivacious, not too learned, but not too
superficial' Manchester Examiner.

TEMPLE BAR contains Historical Reviews.

TEMPLE BAR has a well-established fame for admirable Historical Articles.'

Western Daily Mercury.
TEMPLE BAR has articles on French Literature.

French Literature and Literary Characters are always welcome in TEMPLE BAR.*

MjiiNiNQ Post.
TEMPLE BAR is as good as ever, and that is saying a good deal.'

Lady's Pictorial.

TEMPLE BAR is sparkling and brilliant. It might command a constituency by its
fiction alone, but it takes so much care of its more solid matter that, if there were no
stories at all, there is enough to interest the reader' English Independent.

 A Magazine for the Millions' Standard.

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street, London.

3 0112 084216479

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of 

v.a,

VOL. III.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

LONDON

BY

FRANCES May Pealed

Author OP 'Near ITKIGHBOXIBS ' AND * THB COUNTRY COUSCf'

"fio ertetencc can be made perfect except through restraint
an sacrifice* J- H. Storehouse

IN THEEE VOLUMES

VOL. m.

LONDON
Richard BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

publishers in ordinary to )tx Pajestn tbc enter


All rights reserved

PAUL'S Sister,

CHAPTER XXn.

A good companion, and as firm a friend.  Pope.

Icy's absence had been taken advantage
of by Xorma's sister, Bessie
Charlton, now Lady Drummond, to
come and stay with Norma. She was a
young woman of frankly expressed opinions,
and, disliking Lucy, she found it so hard to
be what she called pleasant, that, as far as
possible, she avoided staying in the same
house. The difference between her and her
sister was curiously marked. Bessie was small,
VOL. III. B

and rather thickly set, with a good-humoured
decided face, from which prosperity broadly
smiled. She was thoroughly practical, and
troubled by no inconvenient impulses or enthusiasms
; she held Norma to be weak, and pitied
while she loved her. All her ideas about Lucy,
for instance, she considered far-fetched and
absurd  as she said to her husband,

Some women must make martyrs of
themselves, and that is just what poor Norma
will always do. She is quite independent, and
might be extremely happy ; it really is provoking
that she should consider it her duty to
be saddled with a sister-in-law. But what can
one do ? '

Clearly nothing ; so Bessie contented herself
with letting Norma know what she thought
of it, and with choosing for her own visits
the time when Lucy was away. The sisters
enjoyed such times, for in spite of the marked
differences between them, they were very fond

of each other, and, as Xorma was young for
her age, and Bessie old, the gap of years was
not much felt. They were sitting together
one stormy evening, and talking of many
things, though a Listener might have remarked
that the many things chiefly related to Lady
Drummond.

'Yes,' said the young mother, looking
critically at her sister, ' I am almost certain
that Madge will be like you. She has the
same eyes, the same mouth  perhaps her nose
isn't quite so well-shaped, but  I don't know.
It doesn't do to pronounce too definitely upon
a nose. I feel sure it will be very nice. And
I am very glad, Xorma, that she should belike
you.'

Thank you, dear,' said Xorma humbly.

Whenever,' Bessie went on  ' whenever I
see you, I am a little astonished to see how
very beautiful you are still. You don't change
in the least. Eobert says you're wasted down

B 2

here, and ought to be in London, but  I don't
know. Do tell me. Have you really resolved
never to marry again ? '

Mrs. Winyeatt reddened like a young girl.

One need hardly resolve on that subject
  I don't think one should.'

Oh, nor do I. But you have always
spoken as if you might make one of those rash
resolutions ; and, you know. Norma, you are
dreadfully given to acting upon impulse.'

Not now, I think,' Norma said uneasily.

I wouldn't trust you. If you thought ita
fine thing to do, you'd go and immolate
yourself, before any of us had time to stop
you. I heartily wish that we lived within
easier reach of each other.' Lady Drummond,
who was busily engaged in knitting a hunting
waistcoat for her husband, looked up as she
spoke, and saw to her surprise that Norma's
sweet eyes were shining with tears.

Oh, Bessie, so do I ! ' she exclaimed gratefully.

' You don't know how often I wish it,
or how cut off I feel ! '

'Then, my dear child, why don't you
come ? Craigmuir isn't at all a bad place ; I
mean to get a governess for Madge, and she
and Agnes could join. Best off* all, we should
look after you  thoroughly. Come, think
of it.'

What would Lucy do ? ' asked Xorma,
faintly smiling.

There, didn't I say you loved to immolate
yourself? Lucy, if I had the ordering of your
Hfe, should go and make trial of the houses of
some other relations. I dare say she wouldn't
care for them much, because you've spoilt
her ; but it would be a wholesome experience.
Why doesn't she marry ? Lm always hoping
to hear she has found a husband.'

She is only four-and-twenty,' pleaded her
sister.

I know. And at four-and-twenty you

were married, and so was I. The only possible
good that I can see in your having Lucy here
is that she insists upon your going out, and I
dare say that if it were not for her, no one
would ever see you.'

Mrs. Winyeatt made no answer, and the
conversation soon drifted back to Bessie's life
at Craigmuir, and the bags which Sir Eobert
had made that autumn. Lady Drummond
was absolutely content with her lot, with a
kind sensible husband, with her girls and baby
boy, and with the universe in general ; so
content that she was inclined to think that
others who were less pleased with the aspect
of things, had only themselves to thank for
the deficiency. Norma used to wonder
sometimes whether it were so ; whether
all the tumult and vague questioning of her
heart, were no more than the outgrowth of
fooHsh discontent. Until Lawrence came she
had thought it had been safely stilled to rest,

and she was half pained, half ashamed, to find
it as strong and as vehement as ever.

Bessie left her the morning after this little
conversation, going back to her Eobert and
her children without a doubt or miscrivinc ;
she had perfect confidence in herself, in her
judgment and her position. Xorma found
herself smiling as she walked back from the
station, and yet half sighing for em-y of this
unattainable repose.

She was out all the afternoon, only coming
in at tea-time, when she found not only ]\Iiss
Ellison but Isabel and Janet Somerville, and
by-and-by some half a dozen others dropped
in, Mrs. Carrington among them.

I wish I had seen Lady Drummond,' this
last was saying. ' You have so few relations,
Norma, that one has no opportunity of discovering
little reflections of yourself. I should
like to have known her.'

You would have seen no reflection of

Norma. I never saw two sisters with less
likeness,' said Miss Ellison.

Bessie,' said Mrs. Winyeatt with a smile,
puts me to shame. She is years younger, and
yet she is so practical and capable that she
manages her great house with all the ease in
the world.'

So could you, my dear, if you turned
your thoughts to it.'

She laughed and shook her head.

'Ah, but that's the point! I never can
turn my thoughts to it. What makes me so
ashamed of myself is that I make a mighty
struggle to force my attention, and then some
little wandering idea comes idling by, and off
I go in pursuit. No one knows what I would
give for a well-regulated mind.'

Don't believe her,' said Miss Elhson with
a little vexation. ' Her books are models of
neatness.'

'At any rate, I wouldn't change her,' said

Mrs. Carrington, nodding kindly ; and something,
she did not know what, but some connection
of ideas made her add, ' By the way,
and apropos of nothing, will anyone tell me
what has become of Mr. Lawrence? He
vanished like a meteor, and I don't like my
friends to choose that form of progression.
He was much too satisfactory a person to be
parted with all of a sudden, and without a
word to break it to one.'

'He is well, I believe,' Xorma answered
quietly ; ' Lucy, you know, is staying with his
people in Devonshire.'

Lucy ! ' said Mrs. Carrington, lifting her
eyebrows. Xorma went on 

There has been a very sad death  from
an accident  in the family. I am afraid poor
Lucy has felt it a great deal. I see there is
a letter from her come by the second post ;
and very likely she will fix some time for
returning.'

'What ages she has been away!' exclaimed
Isabel Somerville, who overheard these last
words.

'I should not have suspected Lucy of
caring for more than a few days of country
life,' said Mrs. Carrington.

She has not liked to leave while they
were in such trouble,' explained Norma ; and
then the talk drifted away into other channels.
But, before she left, Mrs. Carrington, finding
herself close to Miss Ellison, remarked 

How well Norma looks ! I have not seen
her so bright for a long while. Is it Lady
Drummond's coming, or  between ourselves
Lucy's going, which has had such a good
effect?'

As was often the case, Miss Ellison stayed
behind, for Norma was always glad if she
could induce her to remain for the evening.
She had brought her work and established
herself in the drawing-room, but Mrs. Win-yeast,

after standing for a few minutes at the
window, watching some beautiful effects of
white smoke against a background of soft
grey sky, took her letters and went to her
own room. Why she did so she could not have
explained, but something in Lucy's handwriting
had the effect of putting her on the
defensive. She felt as if she must be prepared,
hold herself in  that, in fact, it was
better for her to be alone, without having any
definite reason ready for the impression.

Lucy's letter was not very long, but
Norma was so long a time reading it that the
dusk, which when she went upstairs was only
just beginning to creep in, deepened until
she could not have seen to read a word,
although she still stood holding it in her
hand. The housemaid came up to draw down
the binds, but seeing her mistress standing in
the middle of the room, shut the door softly
and went away again. A sound of scales

arose from the schoolroom, and always, before
this hour, the mother was in the habit of
going to see how Agnes was getting on, and
to give her a kiss. It was evident that Lucy's
letter, whatever it contained, was sufficiently
absorbing to have pushed all other matters
for the time out of her sister-in-law's mind.
When she at last stirred, she did not notice
the darkness. She laid the letter on the table,
and covered her face with her hands. ' Oh,
poor, poor Lucy ! ' she said under her breath.
Presently she moved a step or two, found
the matches and struck a light, after which
she read the letter again and very carefully.
The light falling on her face showed that it
was exceedingly pale. She began, however, to
move about, and remembering Agnes, hurried
down to the schoolroom, where the daily
governess was putting on her hat. The
little girl jumped off the music-stool and ran
to her mother.

What have you been doing all this time,'
she cried, ' upstairs in your room ? I was
listening and listening. Xow I've finished,
haven't I, Miss Fox? so I can go into the
drawing-room. Is Miss Ellison there ? '

When mother and child went there
together, Miss Elhson looked up with some
laughing remark upon her long desertion.
But she was immediately struck by the change
in Norma s face. ' Something has happened,'
she concluded rapidly, ' and she must have
heard it through her letters. Was it Lucy's ?
Has she succeeded at last ? '

The child's presence, however, prevented
her attempting to find out what it was, and it
appeared as if Norma treated Agnes as a shield
from inconvenient questions, for she allowed
her to stay up until it was time to dress
for the tea-dinner, or whatever a somewhat
nondescript meal may be called. When she
had got back to her own room, she drew out

the letter and read it again, weighing each
word. As she read, her face showed no
lightening of its gravity.

When dinner was over and they were
again in the drawing-room and alone, Miss
Ellison cudgelled her brains for an effective
supply of indifferent subjects. If the truth is
to be told, she was dying to find out the cause
of the disturbance ; but she would not force
Norma's confidence, and until she spoke,
would not so much as signify that she observed
anything. After a little while, indeed, finding
that her friend was disposed for silence, she
took up a book.

It was getting late before Norma looked at
the clock.

So late ? ' she said with a somewhat wan
smile. ' How badly I am treating you ! '

You have had something to think about,
that is all, and I don't think either of us finds
it necessary to stand on ceremony with each

other.' Miss Ellison laid down her book and
spoke cheerfully.

Xo,' said Xorma softly ; ' that is why
being with you is always a rest.' She paused
for a moment.

If I can rest you in any way I shall be
glad,' said Miss Ellison. ' You look tired and
ill now.'

I am not ill,' Xorma said, ' but I am
tired  tired and puzzled. I don't know how
it is, Mary, but lately I have found it very
hard to be certain what is right, to judge
between right and Avrong, which ought to be
such a simple matter.'

I don't know,' returned Miss Ellison
musingly ; ' I am afraid to a good many of us
complications present themselves with great
readiness. As for other people, I am never
quite sure whether the good I try to do themis
right or a dreadful wrong  almost a crime,
in fact. Mr. Saunders hurls political economy

at my head over those miserable Tompkins',
for instance. Mrs. Tompkins was a fool for
marrying her husband, no doubt, and I should
say she had been convinced of it ever since ;
but she is an excellent woman, and the children
are very nice children, and I really can't
see them starve, however much the moralities
of the state demand it. No, depend upon
it we must put up with a certain complication
in our straight lines here.' Norma was silent,
and Miss Ellison looked at her. Then she
said rather bluntly  ' Something is troubling
you, Norma. If I can help you, tell me ; if
not, just talk without telling.'

Norma smiled.

Yes,' she said, ' something is troubling me
very seriously, and I don't know how to act
for the best.'

Miss Ellison was magnanimous, but human.

I suppose it is Lucy ? ' she suggested.

i Yes  Lucy. You know so much that I

would tell you more, but that I can't depend
on your judgment in this matter, for the
simple reason that you are so prejudiced
against poor Lucy.'

'Very well,' said Miss Ellison in an affronted
tone. Xorma looked at her, and then
drew her chair close to the other woman's,
and laid her had on hers entreatingly.

Don't be cross,' she said ; ' I know it is
your love for me which makes you unjust, but
oh, what am I to do ? ' she cried out suddenly,
starting up and leaning her head
against the mantelpiece.

My dear,' said Miss Ellison tenderly, ' I
will try to be just.'

It is far more difficult to speak now than
it was before. If I had known what I know
now, I should never have spoken at all.
Before this, Lucy's state of mind hardly seemed
serious. It was as if she were acting a little

VOL. III. C

play for the amusement as much of herself as
of others.'

And now ? '

Now it is not acting.'

If she has fallen  for once in her life 
head over ears heartily in love, I respect her
for it,' said Miss Ellison with emphasis. But
her heart sank.

Yes, only  poor, poor Lucy ! What is
to come of it ? '

Never mind  it will do her good. However,
now that you have said so much. Norma,
you had better go on. Does she write all this
to you ? '

Yes ; she is miserable.'

Miss Ellison, in spite of her excellent resolutions,
felt an immediate impulse of distrust
arise within her. She asked as indifferently
as she could 

Does she wish you to do anything ? ' and
Norma coloured.

Yes  no. Xo, she only appeals to me to
give her time. She seems to think '

What ? '

She says Mr. Lawrence is going away
from home, and she seems to imagine he
might come here.'

'Ah, I see!'

He will not.'

Is that certain ? '

How can I tell ! ' cried Xorma, turning
impetuously upon her.

Well, my dear, that is what I was thinking
myself. Let us suppose, for the sake of
argument, that he does make his appearance ? '

'I cannot see him now  I shall go
away.'

She was so evidently suffering that Bliss Ellison
restrained an exclamation of impatience.

Very well,' she said quietly ; ' but why ? '

Norma flung back her head, her beautiful
eyes had almost a hunted look in them.

Don't you see,' she said, ' the position I
have put myself into ? I allowed Lucy to goto
this place knowing nothing of how matters
really stood ; she did not understand that Mr.
Lawrence really  really cared for me, and I
let her think that I should never marry again.
Even now  though, somehow or other, she
seems to guess a little about him  she fancies I
shouldn't change, she feels as if all his love were
just wasted. Indeed, indeed, Mary,' she went
on humbly, ' I thought I was acting fairly by
her. I held back, in order that she might
prove it for herself, and because it didn't seem
as if she really cared  it was a sort of fancy.
That was what I meant when I said it was so
hard to know right from wrong. I see now
that I was wrong.'

Yes, I think you were,' said her friend
quietly. ' Take care that you don't do what
would be worse '

How ? '

Try to make two wrongs take the place
of one right.'

Norma looked at her, then moved impatiently.


Whatever happens,' she said, ' I must do
what I can to atone to poor Lucy.'

For what ? '

For want of frankness. She was perfectly
frank With me.'

Oh, I know ! ' groaned ]\Iiss Ellison
*It's this dreadful frankness which is at the
bottom of all the mischief. Was Lucy ever
frank before ? ' Norma's look, tender but
sad, met and reproached her. ' There,' she
cried, putting out her hands, ' I am not going
to fall foul of Lucy. Only when you talk of
atoning, you frighten me.'

It is what we can seldom do,' said Norma
in a low passionate tone. Miss Ellison looked
at her. Her beautiful face, on which the firelight
fell, was stirred by pain, yet strong with

a deeper feeling, which conquered and transformed
pain. It was the face of a nature
capable of such intensity, of so much sacrifice,
that her friend felt her arguments, her persuasions,
shrivel up before it. And yet she
knew, by the force of her own common sense,
that peril lay before Norma, that she must bethe
one to defend her against herself, and to
restrain that ardent impulse which she admired
yet feared.

No,' she said, ' you are right. It is what
we can seldom do ; and for women especially,
perhaps it is in mercy that the opportunity is
not often put into their hands, because they
are seldom just.'

Mrs. Winyeatt appeared to think over
these words. She hesitated, then asked 

Why do you speak of being just? '

Ah, Norma! because it is not just when
we drag others into our own sacrifice. We
wound their hearts, we offer them up unwilling

; we have no right to force them to
share our pain. My dear, you would never
flinch from pain yourself, but what I fear for
you is that you would be so carried away
by your own noble impulse that you would
not recognise the torture you were inflicting
upon others.'

Somebody must suffer,' said Xorma rather
obstinately.

But if you take the law into your own
hands, aren't you afraid that it may be the
wrong somebody ? '

'Oh, if I could only bear it all myself!
' She uttered this cry as if it were wrung
from her, and in it Miss Ellison fathomed
some measure of the pain she was contemplating.


But you cannot,' she said tenderly ; ' and
what has mr. Lawrence done that you should
inflict it upon him ? So far as I can see, he
has acted consistently throughout, has loved

you straightforwardly, has been very much
snubbed for trying to tell you so, and has
now to be offered up on the shrine of Lucy's
vanity. I am not hard upon Lucy in saying
this. You know it yourself.'

It is not vanity now,' Norma said in a
low voice.

I don't know. I am not sure. Perhaps,
as you say, I am not a fair judge. But granting
your point of view to the full, I cannot
see that it makes any difference. Come,
Norma, do you for one moment suppose
that if you reject Mr. Lawrence he will turn
to Lucy ? '

He may,' said Norma slowly.

Miss Ellison jerked up her chin with a
provoked gesture.

Oh,' she cried, ' I think the people who
are wanting in vanity are rather more irritating
than those who have too much ! I give
you up. I wash my hands of you.'

Norma's eyes were turned, on her with
wistful appeal.

Xo,' she said with a faint smile, ' you
will not. I am not afraid. Even if I am
wrong, as I may be, you would never find it
in your heart to desert me.'

I don't know,' o-rumbled Miss Ellison.
I wish I could see the letter you are going
to write to Lucy. I suppose you would not
show it to me before sending it ? '

I can't do that,' she returned gently.
I promise you, however, that I will think it
well over.'

There was no doubt that she carried out
her promise, for the words of her answer
floated before her mind all night, and she
tossed about with no more than brief snatches
of sleep. What made it especially difficult
for her was, that with all her quick sympathy
she could not enter into Lucy's feelings, could
not put herself in her place. She knew that

she herself would have died sooner than
declare her own unsought love as Lucy had
declared it ; it appeared a degradation of
what should have been profoundly sacred.
This did not alter the position, but it deprived
her of the spring of sympathy which makes
sacrifice a joy.

Before she went down in the morning she
wrote the letter. At breakfast she was quiet,
but so tender and charming with Agnes that
the little girl said rapturously 

I wish I always had you all to myself,
mamma I Don't you think it's much nicer
when there's nobody else ? '

What, not even your godmother ? '

I don't mind her,' said Agnes considering ;
I was thinking of Aunt Lucy.'

She expected a reproof, but none came.
Her mother was looking at her almost
strangely. ' You and I must be a great deal
to each other, mustn't we ? ' she said with a

thrill. Agnes, who was not sentimental, and
was pleased to have escaped, thought the
moment favourable for a request.

Mother,' she said engagingly.

'Weep'

'Look what a beautiful morning it is.
Don't you think it would be rather nice if
Miss Fox and I were to go for a walk ? '

Very well,' said ]airs. Winyeatt abstractedly.


And may we go into the town ? '

This pushed advantage aroused her
mother.

What are you talking about ? A walk
before lessons? Oh, Agnes, that was only
when you were ill ! '

But you have promised ! ' cried the little
girl gleefully. She jumped down from her
chair and rushed at her mother-you have
promised ! '

'Because I wasn't thinking. However,

that was my fault, wasn't it ? Suppose I take
you with me, then, and we will give Miss Fox
a holiday. Will that do?'

Oh, lovely ! Where shall we go ? Shall
we go to the pier, and then back by the ships
into the town ? '

No ; I must first of all post a letter.'

There will be plenty of time when we
come back. Do let us go to the pier first.'

No,' her mother repeated, and this
further concession Agnes found it impossible
to gain. She looked rather curiously at the
letter, as Norma laid it on the table in order
to tie a silk handkerchief round the child's
neck.

Only to Aunt Lucy ? ' she said discontentedly.
' And such a thin letter ! '

But there is a good deal in it,' returned
Norma, in rather a strange voice.

She said very little more until they reached
the pillar-box, and Agnes stretched out her

hand for the letter, which according to custom
she was going to drop into the box. But her
mother put aside her hand, and posted it
herself quickly and nervously. The little girl
pretended to pout.

I am very glad it is gone,' she said ; ' it
has made you quite funny.'

Xorma thrust away the pain that was
goading her ; she began to talk to Agnes in
the way in which the child delighted, taking
the common things which passed, and with
the most delicate touches of imagination and
fancy, weaving them into a sort of romance.
It was the only time in which she ever gave
rein to these imaginative gifts, and could they
have heard the dainty story, others besides
Agnes would have listened entranced. The
two wandered about the picturesque and busy
inner harbours, where were quaint incongruous
vessels, and landing of odd cargoes,
and smell of tar, and lap of green water against

the grey stone walls, and about all Norma had
something to say, tender and humorous
fancies with which to clothe grimmest
realities. Agnes listened, rapt ; every now and
then, when something more especially appealed
to her, she gave her mother's hand a little
appreciative squeeze ; when the words at last
died away on the teller's tongue, died,
brokenly and vaguely, as if some masterful
thought had overpowered the playful fancies,
she only sighed and was silent. They were
both silent as they went home by the sea,
which was rolling its strong surf towards land
under a luminous grey sky.

He who will not answer to the rudder, must answer to the
rocks.  Breton Proverb.

IHETHEPt it were from the chill, or
the terror, or both combined, Lticy
had felt ill ever since the dav of
Major Macarthy's death, and this illness,
which seemed to prove a very sensitive sympathy
with their own trouble, made her
doubly dear to sirs. Lawrence. But it was
after her talk with George Lawrence in the
garden that she flagged more perceptible.
She did not see him again alone, and he made
no further comment upon her looks. She

asked his mother one morning whether he
was soincf to be honos absent.

For not more than a week,' Mrs. Lawrence
said eagerly. ' It is very vexatious
that he should be obliged to go at all, but I
suppose it is necessary ; at any rate, he certainly
thinks it so.'

It was on this day that Lucy wrote her
miserable letter to Norma. If she had not
been really ill, perhaps self-control would
have gained the day ; but it was, or seemed to
be, a relief to body and mind to pour out her
wretchedness, and when once she had begun,
the tide flowed stormily on. It is probable
that she hardly knew what she wrote, what
she urged upon Norma, for in her mind was
something of the incoherence of fever. One
thought had laid its iron grasp upon her, and
having once admitted its power, it tyrannised
until it turned her into a machine. She was
convinced that her happiness lay in Norma's

keeping. Forced to recognise Lawrence's
love, she argued against it with all the weak
theories she had formed ; it was a fancy of the
moment, it would burn itself out, it would
be entirely quenched by rejection. These
theories were weak, but she had, it was true,
a weapon the strength of which she did not
herself realise, when she appealed as Paul's
sister to PauFs wife. Give her time, that was
the burden of her prayer. She owned that
all was changed ; she told Norma that she saw
how wicked she had been in speaking of
marrying him without love. ' Oh, all that
you said has come back to me a hundred
times,' she wrote; 'but now, dear, dearest
Norma, everything is different, and you need
not scold me for that. I am miserable, miserable
; have a little pity ! ' To Xorma this
strange outpouring was like the rending off
the veil of a woman's self-respect, and so incomprehensible
that her sympathy could not
VOL. in. D

reach or touch it, but the cry of misery
pierced her heart, and she could no more
have been indifferent than have passed by a
starving man with the food that would save
him in her hands. Sympathy she might have
none, but compassion would serve Lucy as
well.

Her answer came on the day that Lawrence
left. Martin had been seriously uneasy
about her young mistress of late, and this day
she was sure something was wrong. Her
eyes looked bright, there was a red spot
on each cheek, and fits of alternate excitement
and tearful depression. The excitement
lasted while George was in the house ; he
thought her better, and said some kind little
nothing about expecting to find her quite well
when he came back. She detained him for a
moment when he had said this with his goodbye.


When are you coming back ? '

On this day week,' lie answered, struck
by a sudden abruptness in her voice. ' That
is the earliest date.'

You will be all the time in London ? '

I can hardly say. There or near, probably,'
he said smiling. ' I shall be guided by
circumstances.'

Don't be longer,' she said, letting her
eyes drop.

He looked quickly at her, conscious of an
odd thrill of interest, unlike anything he had
felt here before, but the next minute he had
finished his farewell and driven off. Lucy
sank down on a low chair.

He is going to Dover,' she reflected, ' and
if Norma sees him she will forget everything
! '

Instantly her mind, always fertile in expedients,
began to work at the possibility of
weaving some plan for preventing that meeting.
She had, she felt sure, two or three

D 2

days of safety ; Lawrence would plunge into
the business which took him to London, set
it going, and probably on the fourth or fifth
day of his stay, run down to Dover. But all
her thinking could not bring forward any
plan, and she grcAV more and more sick at
heart over the picture she conjured up. It
was curiously characteristic of the shallower
nature, that although she knew well the
strength of Norma's sweet steadfastness, she
distrusted it here, and believed if Lawrence
avowed his love he could beat it down.
Meanwhile her feverish strength failed
quickly now that he was gone, and she no
longer tried to conceal her languor ; all the
talk seemed inexpressibly wearisome, and
when luncheon was over she pleaded a headache
and went to her own room. Neither
sleep nor rest would come to her ; she jumped
up constantly and paced the room, thinking
all the while how she could make this visit of

Lawrence's  by this time a certainty in her
mind  powerless. Martin grew so uneasy
about her that she went to Mrs. Lawrence
and begged that Mr. James might be sent for,
and Lucy, rather frightened at the thought
that illness might be coming upon her, did
not refuse to see him.

'If he will give me something to make me
sleep, I shall do very well,' she said.

When death has been busy in a house he
leaves behind him a sense of insecurity which
is in itself an alarm, and ]\L:s. Lawrence's thin
face looked whiter and more lined than ever.
When Mr. James came down she met him in
the hall.

Nervous prostration, and a chill mixed up
with it,' he said at once. ' She will require
care, no doubt, but I see no reason for apprehending
a serious illness. I'll send over
something and look in again tomorrow.'

In spite of the sleeping draught, however,

Lucy had a bad night, and in the morning was
so unrefreshed that Martin  also impressed
by what had lately happened  remarked that
she wished they were back in Dover, or had
Mrs. Winyeatt here to nurse her.

And I've half a mind, ma'am, to write
and tell her.'

No ! ' cried Lucy impetuously, turning
upon her, but the next moment she leaned
back in her chair and began to turn this new
idea in her mind. If Norma were to come
there in Lawrence's absence ? There was
time. Lucy would take care that she went
home the day before his return, and what
keener cut could he receive than to learn that
she had chosen the time of his absence for
coming to see her sister? The more she
thought of it, the more it seemed that here
was the plan she had been searching for, and
she wondered at her own want of invention.
But it must be done quickly. ' I believe it

would be a comfort to see Mrs. Winyeatt,' lie
said languidly, 'but she could not come all
this way  how could one ask her P '

Martin was eagerly certain that she would.
Mrs. Winyeatt would bring Chambers and
go into lodgings at Eivermouth, and think
nothing of it. And she was sure the seeing
someone would do Miss Winyeatt good.
Martin, in fact, was secretly hoping for
an influence which should draw her young
mistress back to Dover. The shadow of
sorrow still rested upon the old grey stone
rectory.

Well,' Lucy admitted, ' if you wish it so
much, you may write. Write in jour own
name, and say nothing of having spoken tome,
because I don't wish Mrs. Winyeatt to
feel herself obliged to come. And do not
mention it in the house : it miizht frighten

CO

Mrs. Lawrence.'

Her heart beat more quickly ; she felt as if

she had taken a daring step, and one hedged
in by possibilities of failure. Illness, moreover,
was at work, and made her more
nervous and fanciful than was usual with her.
It might succeed, it might fail  and if it
failed, as her hot-headed miserable fancies
assured her it would, she felt as if she had not
the strength to stand up against the stroke.
By failure she meant the coming together of
George and Norma.

It was no wonder that the doctor told
Mrs. Lawrence that there was more excitement
than he could account for. Could she
enlighten him as to its cause ?

Poor Mrs. Lawrence ! She would have
herself laid it on her son's shoulders, but that
George's words to her on the matter had filled
her with perplexity. She clung to her
opinion, however, finding it more effective
when his undisguised amazement was absent.
But it was of no use for the doctor, such

causes remaining demurely in the background,
for those sagacious individuals to discover if
they can for themselves.

Well,' said Mr. James, glancing at her,
'we must do the best we can, keep her quiet,
and try to get some sleep. To-morrow may
see a distinct change for the better. By the
way, do you know that delicate little Polly
MedlandisiU?'

No ; I hadn't heard it.'

Ah, you miss Major Mac ar thy. Somehow
or other, if a person's finger ached, he
always knew of it. Poor fellow ! / never
knew such a heart.'

He had more time than most people,'
Mrs. Lawrence said hurriedly, with a touch
of the old pang. But her heart immediately
smote her. ' You are right,' she said. ' He
can never be replaced.'

The rector was very much cut up by it,'
remarked the surgeon, ' and I don't wonder.

Those two were a great deal to each other ;
and the end was altogether very sudden and
terrible. Have they told yon how the people
keep his grave covered with flowers ? Well,
I mustn't stay gossiping, but I will send up
something for Miss Winyeatt, and hope to find
her better tomorrow.'

Lucy stayed in her own room, refusing to
see Nelly, though she could not shut out Mrs.
Lawrence. She pleaded head-ache, however,
as an excuse for solitude ; not that she liked it,
but that her nerves were too irritable for endurance
of conversation, and she preferred to
have only Martin in the room, and to throw
her a remark or two when she was so disposed.
Her mind had now seized feverishly
on the coming of Norma, and it appeared to
her in quite a distorted and magnified aspect,
as if, indeed, it meant everything, and her
fortunes hung upon the test. The letter
could not reach Dover before the middle of

the next day, and when she had endured until
that time, and still no sign came, she was in a
pitiable condition of nervous exhaustion.

Yet Norma lost not one moment in sending
a telegram. Had George Lawrence been
at home she would have hesitated, perhaps
reluctantly given up the thought of going to
Marlham, from the conviction that Lucy
would not endure her presence. But he was
away  would be away for a week, and her
mind at once ran through the same train of
reasoning which Lucy had adopted. She
could go, stay one or two nights, and be
safely home again before George's return.
This thought she thrust away from her, called
Chambers, and told her they were to go to
London that night. Then she wrote a note to
Miss Ellison, suddenly remembering that she
was going to stay with a sister near London
on that very day, and had proposed to take
Agnes with her. Now there seemed no

reason why the little girl should not go.
There was not time to reach Eivermouth
before night, but by sleeping in London she
could be there the next afternoon.

Partly owing to Lucy's confused head,
this possible arrangement had not come
before lier, and the telegram which alluded
to it filled her with dismay. Visions of
Lawrence and Norma meeting floated incessantly
before her eyes. She pictured his looks,
she heard his words ; in vain she pressed her
hands to her hot temples to try to shut outsight
and sound, until as, naturally, the excitement
increased the miserable feelings of
illness, lie was seized by a new fear  that
when Norma came she might find her so ill
that there would be more than excuse, there
would be an absolute reason for her remaining
to nurse her. What a fool she had been not
to think of this !

Mrs. Lawrence, coming up, was shocked

at the girl's looks, but Lucy assured her
repeatedly that she was really better.

I shall be quite well in a day or two,
and you will have me downstairs with
an enormous appetite,' she said, and then
added hurriedly, Hating the telegram with thin
lingers, ' Imagine the surprise of hearing that
Norma  my sister-in-law  is coming to seeme
! '

'Mrs. Winyeatt ! ' cried Mrs. Lawrence
startled.

Yes. It is simply absurd, but that silly
Martin has been writing home, I find, and said
I wasn't well  you know how servants
exaggerate  and so Norma is seized with a
sudden fancy to come and see for herself.'

Eeally ! ' Mrs. Lawrence said briefly and
stiffly. She immediately felt sure that Mrs.
Winyeatt was coming here for a purpose,
making a pretext of Lucy's illness, and her
prejudices rose stoutly up against her. Lucy

glanced at her, and knew that in George's
mother she would have her best ally.

It is very dear of Norma,' she murmured.


The other was silent, with the silence
which is more contradictory than the most
positive words, but Lucy's inconvenient
conscience pricked her into repeating her
remark.

It is very kind and  very impulsive,' she
added ; ' she will go to the inn at Eivermouth
and drive here, no doubt. I wonder how you
will like her ? '

I wonder ! ' returned Mrs. Lawrence, ina
tone which contained little doubt. Lucy
looked at her, and let her head fall back with
an access of weariness.

I am afraid people will think me much
more ill than I am,' lie began ; then  ' Mrs.
Lawrence ! '

My dear child ? '

Please don't let anyone suppose that I
am very ill. Don't mention to Mr. Lawrence,
for instance, if you should be writing to him,
that Norma has thought it necessary to come.
He would think  I don't know what he might
not think ! '

I should not dream of alluding to it,'
said Mrs. Lawrence eagerly. ' It would
certainly make him very uneasy.'

She made the promise hurriedly, with a
quick sense of relief. If Mrs. Winyeatt had
been anyone but the person she instinctively
dreaded, she would have welcomed her with
open hospitality ; now her feelings were so far
from friendly that when she went downstairs
she spoke to the rector and to Xelly with
keen indignation of her folly.

I don't know.' said the rector. ' Recollect
she's Miss Lucy's own kith and kin, or the
nearest approach she has to them. I must
own I think she's right.'

Because you can only look at it from one
point of view,' said this wife in a vexed tone.
When the major died, she had felt that it was
impossible she should ever wrangle again, but
at sixty the habits of life are too strong to go
down before even a tragedy. ' That is so like
a man ! '

'Very likely, very likely,' he retorted.
That, my dear Fanny, is owing to the fact that
men consider matters in a straightforward and
sensible fashion, while women have the most
unaccountable habit of trying to look round
corners. If Mrs. Winyeatt comes  I suppose
she is not to stay here? ' he demanded, struck
with sudden anxiety.

I shall not suggest it,' replied Mrs. Lawrence
briefly.

No,' said the rector, ' I should be averse
from having a stranger in the house.'

She looked at him, and then turned and
have a large piece of bread and butter to

Toby. The dog, who ever since that day had
been free of the house, ran such a chance of
being spoiled, that had it not been for the
modesty and faithfulness of his disposition,
there would have been little hope for him.
As it was, he accepted it all gratefully, but a
certain wistful look, an alert attention to any
unusual noise, told them as plainly as words
that he had forgotten nothing. Nelly was his
slave, but the largest share of his remaining
affections was given to the rector, by whose
side he trotted about all over the village.

Xorma reached EivermouLh late in the
afternoon, when a fine rain was falling, and
dusk creeping on. She went to the inn, after
crossing the river in the steam ferry, and
ordered a carriage at once to take her to
Marlham. It was ready after what seemed to
her an unreasonable delay, and she set off
on her journey.

Nothing struck her as beautiful. Grey

VOL. III. E

mists shrouded the distance, blotted out colour,
blurred even the nearer outlines. The hills
looked like dull maps, traced with hedges ; the
river, when it came into view, was but a
dreary line of fog ; and the lanes, choked with
mud and dead leaves, sodden and dripping
with moisture, made Norma, whose nature
was at all times easily touched by influences
about her, shiver. At last she would lookout
no more at the unlovely greyness, and sat
back staring at the moth-eaten cushions in
front of her, and wondering whether the
wearisome ups and downs of the road would
ever come to an end.

She would have been glad if she could
have held her thoughts in this safe, if uninteresting,
groove. But every now and
then, in spite of her firm hold, they broke
riotously away. She was going to George
Lawrence's home ; she was in the country
which he had often described to her ; every

minute brought her nearer to his people  and
yet, after all, she had nothing to do with them,
almost blushed to find herself there, and knew
that she must flee away for fear of meeting
him. Womanly pride, indeed, which is as
sensitive in the souls of some women as it
seems wanting altogether in that of others,
began to fret under the fear that her coming
at all was unwomanly. She was shy, tremulous,
doubtful of herself; if she could but
have turned round and crone back acfain, she
would gladly have done so ; and yet she was
conscious of that thrill of eager vearnincr
interest, which made her long to know how
she might picture him to herself in the days,
the months, the years which lay before her 
without him.

When the carriage stopped at last at the
rectory door, the maid who opened it little
thought that the beautiful woman who stood
before her was so dizzy, so trembling, thats

2

yH[V|Mn OF ttU'*

for a moment she leaned against the wall,
helpless. The next, she said quietly 

Will you take me at once, please, to Miss
Winyeatt ? It is so late that I do not wish to
disturb Mrs. Lawrence.'

The maid hesitated, and finally did as she
was told. When she opened Lucy's door,
Norma went hastily in. Lucy was sitting in
an arm-chair by the fire, sitting upright, facing
the door, her hands on the arms, her whole
attitude one of weak watchful attention.
Norma was shocked by the pallor, the straining
in her face. She came hastily in, knelt
down by Lucy, and put her arms round
her.

My poor dear ! ' she cried, kissing her,
have you suffered so much ? '

Lucy made a hasty movement.

It is nothing,' she said ; ' don't suppose
that there is much the matter with me. Where
have you come from to-day ? *

From London,' said Norma, surprised at
the question.

And who Alas with you there ? You
were not alone ? '

Quite alone, except Chambers,' said
Norma smiling. ' I reached the Great Western
hotel late last evening, and left early
to-day.'

And saw no one ? '

'No one.'

The girl sank back with a sigh, which, if
Norma had known it, was a sigh of relief from
a nightmare. Her voice, too, became more
natural.

It was really awfully good of you to
come,' she said. ' Only think of your taking
all that trouble ! I suppose that silly Martin
frightened you . There is really nothing in
the least serious the matter with me, only I
have run down, and one can't get up again
in a day.'

But you are not sorry I came ? ' asked
Norma, yearning for some words of tenderness.

Sorry ? Oli no, very glad. I believe
the sight of you will cure me.'

Norma kissed her gratefully ; she was
always grateful for any sign of feeling from
Paul's sister. She kissed her, and Lucy submitted,
then drew slightly back.

I heard the wheels,' she went on, ' but I
did not expect you so soon, because I made
sure you would be captured downstairs.
Have you seen them all ? '

Not one. It is so late, that I thought I
would try to come direct to you, and I succeeded.
To-morrow I can introduce myself
to them  if they wish it.'

Yes, yes, come tomorrow, come early tomorrow,'
said Lucy hastily. ' I wish I could
ask you to sleep here, but I can't.'

Of course not,' Norma replied quietly.
I shall do very well at Eivermouth.'

I am afraid you Avill be very uncomfortable.
You really mustn't stay there.'

She looked anxiously at her sister-in-law,
but Xorma did not read the meaning of the
look. She was greatly distressed at the
feverish troubled expression in Lucy's eyes,
eager to do anything to tranquillise this perturbed
mind.

'Tell me,' she said, 'what the doctor
orders you. Do you sleep P '

Yes, and dream,' said the girl shuddering.
' Don't talk about it. You can't conceive
what we went through that night. Do
you know I saw them drive away, and then
he was brought back  dead ! It was the
suddenness  the awful suddenness ! '

Xorma's eyes were dilated. She, too,
seemed to be seeing something through the
gloom.

Yes,' she said in a low voice, ' it is
awful'

But you can't imagine what it is to be in
it. And then Mrs. Lawrence was in such a
state, and I had to run out into the drive, and
got chilled. Even now one can't get away
from it,' she added impatiently ; ' Mrs. Lawrence
will talk of it. She thinks she wasn't
kind to him ; she reproaches herself perpetually.'


Oh, poor soul ! ' cried Norma, in quick
response.

But it is very bad for me,' Lucy said with
petulance. ' I am sure Mr. James would not
allow it if he knew. What time will you
come tomorrow, Xorma ? '

Early  as early as you will have me.'

Come at eleven, then, and stay all day.
You might go back by the river. Shall you
see them to-night ? '

I would rather not,' said the other
shrinking.

Then I will ring for Martin, and she can
slip down with you.'

At once ? '

'Yes, I'm sleepy,' said Lucy yawning.

And so Xorma left George Lawrence's
house, feeling as if she were a shadowy intruder.


The more one lives, the more one learns to act towards
people as if they were inanimate objects, namely, to do what
you can for them, and utterly disregard whether they are
grateful or not.  General Gordon.

Thy girdle Truth to hate a lie.  Keble.

.|Y the next morning the wind had risen,
and rushed tempestuously down the
valleys, driving before it the drenching
showers of rain which had taken the place
of the mournful drizzle of the previous day.
All the mists had gone, smitten into nothingness
by the boisterous power of the wind. Instead
of a thick and dull curtain of cloud, all was
changed ; clouds, indeed, there were, but they

hurried tumultuously up in separate bodies,
and the black masses overhead vere succeeded
by broken lights, and fitful but
brilliant gleams of sunlight flashing on the
driving rain, and turning the wet hedges into
sparkling light. The river, churned out of
peaceful greens and blues, and all time for
reflection, rushed along, like some living
thing scourged into wrath by the turmoil
overhead. Yellow leaves, hanging but loosely
to their stems, were caught and whirled
into space. Everything was in movement,
but movement which was brilliant, exhilarating,
invigorating, instead of the gentle
depression of the day before.

Something in Norma's own impetuous
nature arose as if it were in answer to the
challenge of the elements as she drove through
the lanes towards the rectory. The carriage
was open, and she faced the wet wind with
hardy indifference ; indeed, she was scarcely

conscious of it, her mind fixing itself upon
her coming interview with Lucy. It was
impossible for the day to pass without something
being said as to that letter which Lucy
had written and Norma had answered. She
had answered, she had firmly  and counting
the cost, the bitter cost  accepted the
position : yesterday, Lucy's paleness and
weakness had appealed pathetically to her
pity, and her heart had confirmed its own
sentence upon itself. But to-day revolt
sprang up. The strong and vigorous life
within her claimed a share in the eager rush
of the outer world, the thought of Lawrence
and his living claims dominated that duty
to the dead to which she had vowed herself.
She was shocked that she should
waver, that the battle she had supposed to
be won needed to be begun again from the
very beginning ; she had yet to learn, poor
Norma ! that no battle is won, no victory

secure, till the battle-field is left behind forever.


It was the harder now that his personality
touched her from all sides. She saw
him walking before her in the lanes, as she
drove up to the house, and looking eagerly
at it, it appeared as if he must be on the
steps to greet her. In place of him Xelly
came unwillingly forward.

'My mother hopes you will stay all day,'
she said with shy discomfort ; ' and if you
don't mind the river, you might go back
that way.' Then, with this arranged, she
led the wav into the drawim:c-room.

Xorma looked anxiously at Ills. Lawrence
his mother. Xelly's stiffness had chilled
her, Mrs. Lawrence chilled her yet more.
No one seemed to have a superfluous word
at their disposal. She asked for Lucy, and
was told she had had a better night ; she
faltered through remarks upon the scenery,

the climate, the old houses at Ei vermouth,
but nothing struck a chord of response. At
last she stood up, and asked if she might
go to Lucy, blank depression enfolding her
as with a wet sheet. Nelly took her up,
and rushed down again to her mother.

 Oh ! ' she cried, bursting in.

Well ? ' said Mrs. Lawrence eagerly, her
face kindling.

Isn't she beautiful I Did you ever see
anyone like her ? '

'She is a handsome woman,' Mrs. Lawrence
agreed coldly, ' as Lucy always said,
but I should never like her.'

Nelly stared at her mother.

She is worth twenty Lucy,' she said
emphatically. ' George will be a greater fool
than I think he is, if he looks at Lucy when
Mrs. Winyeatt is by. Not like her ? Why,
she has the sweetest, dearest face ! '

Norma, meanwhile, was sitting in a chair

by Lucy's side. The girl, relieved by knowing
that Norma was here, and out of the way
of all possible meetings, had slept better ; there
was a faint tinge of colour in ]her cheek,
and a touch of something that was almost
triumph in her eye ; she did not appeal to
her sister-in-law like the wan, feeble creature
of the day before. Xorma would have been
glad to have had that strong impulse of pity
to carry her over the path which lay before
her.

'How did you Hke them ? ' Lucy was asking,
while she watched her face with an
amused smile.

'I think we were all rather shy,' said
Norma, smiling also, but too loyal to breathe
a word against Lawrence's mother and sister.
You know that I am. not a good person to
be plunged into a strange household.'

'Mrs. Lawrence can be rather appalling,
though I never found her so,' pursued Lucy,

with intention. ' From the very first moment
that we met, she has been as kind and nice
as possible ; she couldn't have been nicer had
I been '

She paused.

Her own daughter.' Norma finished the
sentence quietly. ' That is what she wishes,
then ? '

Yes, she wishes it,' answered Lucy
boldly.

Norma hesitated for an instant, then she
said, ' We must speak of your letter, Lucy,
although it is a difficult subject to discuss ;
but if we avoid it, there will be something
hanjincr over our heads which we shall feel
must come down some time.'

Lucy leant her cheek on her hand, and
looked at her with a mocking smile.

Pull the string, my dear, by all means,'
she said, and Norma flushed at the tone. She
spoke, however, with studied gentleness 

Dear Lucy, believe me, I am thinking, I
am trying to think of your happiness. When
Paul died, I felt as if you were somehow left
in my charge ; at any rate, that what I had todo
was to attempt to supply his place, however
poorly ; I have tried, I have, dear, indeed.
I have failed, no doubt, over and over again,
but I have tried, and I don't think any,'  she
drew a long breath  * anything would make
me deliberately overthrow your happiness.'
She paused and looked at Lucy ; would she
give no generous word of assent ? The girl
remained motionless, the same thin smile just
touching her lips, and Xorma looked away
again quickly, as if something in the unmoved
face shook her resolution. ' I should not
want to dwell on this,' she went on rapidly,
if it was t such a personal matter, lyincr
between us two.'

Three,' put in Lucy softly.

No,' said Norma, more vehemently, ' no.

VOL. in. F

This of which we are speaking has nothing
to do with Mr. Lawrence ; it les absolutely
between you and me. I dare not think of
him,' she added hurriedly, half to herself.
Lucy raised her head for the first time, and
looked sharply at her. ' You tell me,' said
Norma, regaining her calm with an effort,
though a keen observe* might have noticed
that her voice trembled slightly, ' that you 
you have grown to care for Mr. Lawrence
'

'You blamed me for not caring, once,'
cried the girl, half defensively.

I do not think it was that,' said the other
woman with an effort ; ' it was '

Oh, for pity's sake, don't let us go over
the old ground ! Let it be what you like ; it
is enough to know what it is now.'

And now ? '

]Sow  now ' Suddenly she flung her

arms round Norma. ' Oh, Norma, now I know

what it is to care ! I ain miserable ! Norma,
you won't fail me ! '

'Xo  I will not fail you,' slowly.

You frightened me, going back ! '

But that is what I must do  I must go
back. There are things which I must make
you understand, which I could not write.'
She had neither repelled nor returned the
girl's caress, she sat upright with her hands
locked together, and Lucy withdrew herself,
frightened, she knew not why. 'You told
me once, I remember,' Xorma went on,
speaking with difficulty,  that I was not frank
with you. I was not. You gave me your
confidence  I did not ask for it, but perhaps
it would have been better if I could have
forced myseK to return it.'

I think it would have been better,' said
Lucy coldly, but even as she spoke her eyes
fell before the absolutely truthful transparent
eyes which Xorma turned upon her.

F 2

Afterwards I thought so,' replied the
other. 'At the time it seemed impossible.'
The rosy colour flushed her fair face as
she went on  ' Lucy, would it make any
difference to you to be told that I know  I
am sure Mr. Lawrence '

She hesitated. Lucy made a sharp
movement, gave a quick laugh, finished the
sentence 

Loved you ? He told you so, I suppose,
at Calais ? '

He began  he was interrupted,' said
Norma, feeling like a shamefaced girl. ' But
I do not think I could have been mistaken.
I am certain now that I was not '

Now ! ' Lucy interrupted her in affright.
Now ! What do you mean ? Have you been
seeing Mr. Lawrence ? '

Norma looked at her in astonishment.
Never, since that day,' lie replied with quiet
dignity.

Go on,' said the girl, dropping back in
her chair, and hiding; her face with her thin
hand. Alien she looked so feeble and helpless,
Xorma's strong tenderness went out
towards her in pity. It cost her a great deal
to continue, to rend, as it were, the veil from
her heart, but she had set the task before her.

'Then,' she said, 'he went away, and I
heard nothing  nothing. After that day it
was a blank, as if a great wall had built itself
between us. When you told me that you
were coming here, what could I say ? I told
myself that it might all be a mistake. You
said it was. You wanted to prove it, away
from me. It was to be an experiment, and if
it failed, apparently you thought you would
be but where you were before ? '

She stopped. Lucy made a little movement
of her body, but gave no answer, and
kept her eyes still covered. The wind at this
moment drove a sharp storm of rain against

the window, whirling with it the leaves from
a great elm ; but in spite of the black cloud
overhead, there was a blue and white radiance
beyond, indescribably fresh and lovely.
Norma fixed her eyes on it.

I was wrong,' she went on tremulously.
I should have known him better ; I should
not have let you expose yourself to  to what
has come.'

She stopped again. Lucy had lifted her
head, and was looking at her with eyes which
seemed to burn.

What was it,' she said, ' what was it that
you did not tell me ? ' Then as Norma sat
silent, looking at her, she added, ' Was it that
you loved him ? '

Norma started from her seat and stood
upright, staring down at the ground. Lucy,
without a waver in her stinging voice, went
on, ' You loved him, and after all that you
have said, you would marry again ? '

Norma flung herself down by Paul's sister.

Yes,' she said dully, ' I loved him. I
would have married him.' Her voice seemed
to implore for some word of forgiveness for
this breach of constancy, but Lucy gave her
none. Her hands closed sharply on the arms
of the chair.

Have you come to tell me something
more ? ' she demanded in a high thin scornful
voice  ' to say that you withdraw all you
wrote last week? Are  you  going  to
marry  Mr. Lawrence P '

The sharpness, the illness, of the tone
brought Norma back her self-possession.
She lifted her head, and looked into Lucy's
eyes.

I withdraw nothing,' she said gravely.

Nothing ? '

Nothing.'

The girl suddenly turned upon her with a
smiling light caress.

How you frightened me ! ' she cried
petulantly. ' I thought all this preamble
meant something? so crushing that I micrht as
well give up altogether. Instead of that, weare
only where we were, aren't we ? And
you will be a dear excellent Norma, and think
how utterly miserable I should be if '

She paused, and Forma looked at her with
yearning eyes.

Oh, my dear,' she cried, ' I can do what
you ask  I can give him up, but  does that
bring him any nearer you ? George Lawrence
is not a shuttlecock, to be tossed from one
woman's hand to another '

Lucy interrupted her feverishly. ' I am
only afraid of you. If once he understands
that you will not marry him, there is no one
else. He must see that you avoid him  wish
to avoid him. I hope he will go to Dover,
and find that you have come here.' Then as
the elder woman started, she added, stung

with quick suspicion  'You never told me
why you think that he has not forgotten
Calais I '

He wrote to me,' Xorma said simply ; ' he
Avrote when Agnes was a little better  ah,
Lucy, you might have told him I '

The girl flushed.

Did you tell him ? Did you explain that
I knew quite well how ill she was ? '

I never mentioned you,' said Xorma
proudly.

Lucy caressed her again. ' I might trust
you,' she said, with a laugh which jarred the
other like a discord. ' So he wrote ? Well,
it was the natural thing to do. And you
answered him P '

Yes.'

The girl wrapped a shawl round her, rose
up, went to a table and brought back a letter
which Xorma saw to be in Lawrence's handwriting.
Lucy watched Tier as her eye fell

upon it, but she could not detect so much asa
quiver of surprise. She bit her hp. ' She
is not jealous  she cannot love,' she said to
herself. Aloud she asked, ' On what day do
you go back ? '

When you like,' replied Norma quietly.
I am in your hands, but I do not think I am
wanted here any longer. To-morrow ? '

Saturday, please. Mr. Lawrence returns
on Saturday. You see I am still quite frank
with you.'

'Why should you fear my meeting Mr.
Lawrence ? ' cried Norma, stung to sudden
passion. ' Don't you understand that you
have nothing to fear  that all the pain belongs
to me ? '

Then you should thank me for trying to
spare you,' returned Lucy carelessly. She
leaned wearily back, closed her eyes, and
sighed. Norma looked round with something
like despair. Lucy was ill, but not so ill as

she had imagined ; she felt bruised and beaten
all over ; she was an unwelcome guest to those
who were Lawrence's nearest and dearest ; she
was forced to remain where she wondered
now why she had ever come. Everything
she looked at brought some suggestion of his
presence, when the best thing she could do
was to forget it, to shut it out from her
yearning eyes.

If, for this renunciation, she could have
felt that Lucy clung to her with affection,
blessed her for trying to make her happy, it
would have been almost happiness. But she
was nothing to her  nothing but a means to
an end  nothing more than she had ever been.
Those occasional bursts of fondness from the
girl were only marks of relief  they touched
no deeper depths. Was it all failure, all the
struggle of years, all the self-renunciation of
the past days? Was the past so unconquerable
that her bleeding efforts could not

avail to lift one iota of its crusliiiif; weight ?
She turned her eyes with pathetic pleading
upon Lucy, but Lucy was not looking at her ;
she had got what she wanted, and was
pondering over her next step.

I don't know when I shall cro back to
Dover,' she said at last. ' After this illness I
should be afraid of a cold place, and when
there is east wind, Dover is really unendurable
cold.'

What shall we do, then ? Shall we go
abroad this winter ? ' asked Norma. All her
little self-restrictions now seemed so useless, so
uncalled for ! The fear of minor things had
vanished.

I think we must keep separate this
winter,' returned Lucy with a smile. ' It
struck me that if Mr. James really thinks a
warm climate desirable, I might stay somewhere
in Devonshire. Torquay, for instance,
might not be bad.'

But not alone,' said her sister-in-law
hastily.

Oh no, I am not so advanced. Whatever
you accuse me of, my dear, it cannot be of
outraging the proprieties. I think I should
get my old governess, Miss Sullivan, to come.
I did think of Isabel Somerville, but '  she
hesitated and laughed. ' Xo, I think it shall
be Miss Sullivan.'

Xorma bent forward.

Take care ; take care ! ' she cried passionately.
 Lucy  if all this fails I '

The girl looked at her and moved uneasily,
but she only answered with a certain defiance,
Then I shall be no worse off than I am now.'
The next instant all the little colour in her
face had faded out of it ; she seemed to Xorma
to be fainting, and she signed towards a bottle
of medicine which stood on the table.

'I have tired you  I have been very
wrong,' said Norma reproachfully, as she

poured it out. She made her lie down, but
when she was going to sit quietly by .the
fire herself, Lucy signified that she preferred
solitude. There was nothing for it but to
leave her. Downstairs Mrs. Lawrence was
alone in the drawing-room, from which ungenial
shades Nelly had escaped. Norma
tried to forget her first impression ; it was
impossible for her not to long to be on friendly
terms with George's mother ; it was almost
equally impossible for Mrs. Lawrence not to
be struck with the sweet and noble face which
might have carried most hearts by storm. But
Mrs. Lawrence had surrounded hers by a complete
palisade of prejudices. She considered
Norma's coming almost an insult to her nursing,
and an unwarrantable step in all respects. It
was true that George was away, but it was
imhkely she should have known this fact ;
and her beauty, her charm, the fascination of
which she was conscious against her will, gave

her an absolute terror. She was stiff, curt, unsympathetic,
and every minute Xorma's heart
sank with a sense that she was being judged
and condemned. When she said that she was
afraid she had allowed Lucy to talk too much,
Mrs. Lawrence raised her eyebrows.

'It is a pity to over-excite her,' she
remarked ; ' 'Mx. James has assured me that
quietness is absolutely necessary. Perhaps
you hardly realise what a sensitive sympathetic
nature hers is. It is our trouble
which has brought on this illness.'

I am sure she identifies herself much
with you all,' faltered Xorma.

She is as dear to me as if she were my
own daughter. I only wish she were ! ' said
Mrs. Lawrence, looking keenly at her visitor.
What could Xorma say ? She turned white,
then red. It was an unspeakable relief when
the rector came bustling in, keen to see the
new arrival after XeUy's loudly-proclaimed

admiration. His hospitable and hearty greeting
had never been more welcome.

'Very glad to see you, Mrs. Winyeatt,
though sorry for the cause. But Miss Lucy
is on the mend, and will be all the better for
your coming. Sorry George is out of the
way, though. You know George, don't you ?
Perhaps you may see him yet  what day is
he coming back, Fanny ? '

On Saturday,' replied Mrs. Lawrence
unwillingly.

And I leave on Saturday morning,' Norma
said quietly. ' As Lucy is better, I thought of
going home tomorrow, but she wishes me to
stay until Saturday.'

Of course, of course,' said the rector
heartily. ' Must finish your cure. Can't you
go somewhere, show Mrs. Winyeatt something,
Nell ? ' Then a change which Norma
did not understand crossed his face, he pressed
his lips together, drawing them in, and turning

his head hastily. ]\[rs. Lawrence, who was
watching him, said with more cordiality than
she had shown 

If tomorrow is fine, Xelly might take
Mrs. Winyeatt up the river ; but Job declares
that we are in for a spell of rain. Shall we
go to luncheon ? '

Xorma understood something of the cause
of the rector's agitation later or, when Nelly
took her into the garden, and poured out the
story of the major with quite unusual effusion.
The girl very seldom liked a stranger, but as
if to restore the balance, every now and then
she was passionately attracted, as now. She
watched Xorma with furtive admiring glances ;
she intuitively recognised the perfect honesty
and truthfulness of her fine nature, and for
their sake accepted the charm of manner
which would not have won her  alone, for
she was apt to regard it with suspicion. So
much confidence did she bestow, that Xorma

VOL. III. G

seemed in one short quarter of an hour to
have entered ito the very Hfe of the Httle
family, its interests and its duties. Her swift
sympathy, moreover, gave her a special gift
of intuition ; she quickly understood the girl's
deep narrow feelings, her hatred of unreality,
her strong prejudices, her inability to criticise
what she loved  this trait caught from her
mother, that from her father. And as she
told about the major, his simple loving life,
the heroic tragedy of his death. Norma,
remembering what Lawrence had also told
her, could read between the lines, and understand
how to Mrs. Lawrence the reckless imprudence,
and the love which, in spite of it,
he attracted from all about him, had been a
perpetual trial, the recollection of which was
now remorse.

Vain still came in violent showers, and
Nelly took a proud delight in noting Mrs.
Winyeatt's indifference to it. Wrapped in her

long blue waterproof, she showed no fear to
what Lucy always hated and avoided ; and to
tell the truth, the storms without were not
so formidable as Mrs. Lawrence's disapproval
within. Her coldness weighed painfully upon
Norma, for though it was true that George
Lawrence could never be anything to her,
she locked with all her heart that his mother
should care for her. It made her the more
grateful for Xelly's sudden attachment.

Before they went in she had seen all the 
girl's animals, and heard the story of each,
connected as it was sure to be with Major
Macarthy. Toby, the hero, had been with
them all the while, his eyes still watchful,
hope not yet quite dead, though dong. Mrs.
Lawrence from Lucy's window watched them
returning to the house from the stables.

Nelly is really incomprehensible ! ' she said
with a certain displeasure ; ' she takes such
unaccountable Hies and dishes that there is

B 2

no telling what will come next ! You must not
be vexed, my dear, if I own that I don't find
your sister-in-law a very attractive person.'

Something  what was it ?  smote the girl
with a pang. She said with unusual abruptness


Norma is very good.'

Mrs. Lawrence shrugged her shoulders.
My dear, you look at the world with kind
eyes. I should find it difficult to forgive her
for not trying to make, your home happier.'

Lucy opened her mouth to speak, but
closed it again, turning restlessly away from
the light.

'You have a headache, I am sure,' said
Mrs. Lawrence anxiously ; ' you have talked
too much. Let me tell Mrs. Winyeatt that
you will not see her again to-day.'

I do not think I will,' said Lucy, clutching
at the relief. ' Only please give her my best
love, and say everything that is kind.'

Mrs. Winyeatt yielded to her sister-in-law's
wish when it was related to her. She asked
quietly at what time Ivs. Lawrence advised
her to come next dav. and then herself suggested
that it should be early, and that she
should not stay for luncheon. She had tea,
at which feminine meal the rector chose to
appear, charmed thereto by sirs. Winyeatt's
presence ; and she soon rose to take leave,
saying that Xelly had proposed walking with
her to the river to meet the steamer. sirs.
Lawrence felt ashamed of her own coldness
under her visitor's quietly unembarrassed manner,
but she quickly consoled herself with
the conviction that she was acting for the
best, not only with regard to Lucv, but to
George.

Norma would have given much to have
been alone. The whole day's experience had
been full of acute pain. When she thought
of Lucy, a kind of shame swept over her. The

idea of any girl  the idea of Paul's sister 
setting deliberately before lier eyes the resolve
to marry a man indifferent to her, was so
humiliating that her own renunciation in
her eyes shared the humiliation, and became
a thing at which she could not bear to look.
Perhaps Nelly's presence saved her something.
She could not be indifferent to the beauty
which disclosed itself as they walked along,
the stormy beauty which transformed all the
homely features, wild sweeps of storm veiling
the distant moor, flashes of brilliant light
bringing out the red and golden pomp of
autumn ; here and there a tree tossed almost
bare of leaf, here and there an elm as green
as if it were the height of summer ; all this
wet world a world of dancing lights, of
exhilarating movement, of lovely blending
colour. The cottage gardens on the hill were
sheltered from the gale, and were still full of
flowers, but in one house a corner of the

thatch had been ripped off, and Xelly stopped
in dismay.

Oh,' she cried, ' that is over the room
where Uncle Tim's poor little lame boy sleeps.
I must go and see. Do you mind walking on
by course? The steamer is not due for
quite a quarter of an hour.'

Xorma gladly consented. She went down
the steep stony hill, seamed with ruts along
which rushed little channels of water, and
looked with some curiosity at the houses on
each side. At the foot of the hill a turbid
river was flowing. Just as she reached the
ferryman's house, the door opened, and a great
red-faced girl came out, her face disfigured
with crying. Meeting her thus face to face,
Mrs. Winyeatt could not have passed by
without asking her what was the matter, nor
could the girl, rough and rude as she was,
resist the sweet kindness of her manner. She
even forgot to wonder who she was.

It's Polly,' she said, jerking over her
shoulder with a broad red thumb. 'Doctor
says her wasn't get no better '  and then she
began to sob again with a violence which
shook her great frame convulsively.

Will you tell me about it ? ' asked Norma
tenderly. ' Perhaps we may think of something
which can help her. Tell me about
Polly.'

You can go in if you will'  still pointing ;
then moved by a stronger impulse, she pushed
open the door, thrust her head in, sobbing,
Here's a lady come to see Polly '  and signed
to Norma to enter.

A young girl, whose face told its tale too
well, sat working and coughing by the lire ;
an elderly woman, hanging up newly-washed
clothes to dry in a corner of the room, came
forward, dusted a chair with her apron, and
invited Norma to sit down with ready courtesy.
The room, with its hie-ash floor, struck the

visitor as very damp and sunless. She began
to explain, but it was evident that no explanation
was required, both the grandmother
and Polly taking her presence quite simply.
The grandmother talked, the girl kept her
eyes fixed on Xorma's face, unaffected, apparently,
by hearing the doctor's verdict
openly discussed. It was not the first time
that Xorma had been unbounded by the
stoicism of the poor.

But did he not say that something might
be done ? ' she demanded eacferlv.

If us could get her away to some place
high and dry, he said herd have a chance.
But whereas her o-oinf? to, I should like to
know? Koa, her must just bide here, and us
must do what us can ; only I wasn't have her
traversing about with that great Ida Comes.'

Oh, but we must see, we must try ; I will
talk to ]Mr. Lawrence ! ' Xorma's delicately
impulsive face was aglow with protest against

this passive acquiescence. The old woman
shook her head.

'If the major had been alive now, he med
have thought of something. Poor gentleman!
You've heard all about 'un, noa doubt, mum ;
'twas a bad job, sure enough ! I watched
'un go by here that very morning, and I
never thought 'twas the last time as we'd ever
see 'un go up and down.'

Norma stayed until she had learned the
circumstances of Polly's life, and plans quickly
rose up in her mind. She promised to come
the next day, and left hurriedly, fearing that
Nelly might be waiting. Nelly was not insight,
but Ida Coombes, redder than ever, was
standing on the opposite side of the road in
company with a young fisherman, and a heavy
basket of potatoes. Directly Norma appeared,
she seemed struck with an access of shyness,
and turned sharply to her companion, pointing
to the basket.

Have 'hin up,' she cried. ' What a yule
you be, Tom Taylor ! ' But she softened as
Norma crossed the road, and her eyes interrogated
her wistfully.

Don't despair,' said Norma kindly ; ' I am
coming again tomorrow, and by tomorrow
we shall perhaps have thought of something
to do her good.'

The girl turned roughly away, but it may
have been to hide the tears which had rushed
into her eyes.

Come on, Tom,' she called loudly ; ' what
be standing staring for ? ' She started up the
hill, met Miss Lawrence coming down, and
showed no sign of recognition. Norma perceived
that Ida Coombes was not on the best
terms vnih part of her world ; she recognised
2i farouche proud temper, and under a coarse
exterior a strong power of loving. Love for
Polly was in all probability the humanising
element in her life. For herself she was

thankful for this newly-awakened interest,
which helped her to thrust away that ever
present personal pain. When she reached
Eivermouth lie at once sat down and wrote a
letter to a convalescent home which she knew
very well in Surrey, giving the circumstances
of the case, and desiring them to telegraph to
her the following morning. Then she sent
out Chambers to post her letter and buy some
flannel, at which the two worked away till
the weariness of the day made itself almost
overpoweringly felt. Not till then did she
venture to go to her room. And, after all,
half the night was spent in fighting a wild
rush of passionate regret, and the morning
was near its breaking: before she fell into an
exhausted sleep.

A strong man,
For where lie fix'd his heart he set his hand
To do the thing he will'd.  Texxtsox.

'HE telegram came to sirs. Winveatt

n 'i while she was at breakfast. There
' was a vacancy at the home. and
they were prepared to take the gut at once.
She went out, bought some warm things at
a shop close by, engaged a boat, and was
rowing up the river while the day was quite
young.

The wind had blown hard all night, and
had got the upper hand of the rain, and there
was a delightful freshness and sparkle in the

air. The river, still turbid, rushed strongly
along, swollen by the rains of the day before,
and by the hundred little moor-streams
which leapt down from their misty heights.
Norma tried to fasten her thoughts upon
what she saw ; first the vessels, with which
the harbour was crowded, then the old houses,
the boat-building yards, the great training
ship, with its world of young life ; afterwards,
and almost suddenly, came the quiet of
wooded banks, rich with every tint of autumn.
The current was powerful, and the men made
head but slowly ; but they knew every turn
of the river, and took advantage of all they
could, so that after a time they crept round
the last curve, and saw the Marlham cottages
clambering up the hill.

No Ida was visible. Norma knocked at
the door, and found Polly and her grandmother,
as on the day before ; but while she
was explaining her plans, the old ferryman in

his blue jersey came in, pulled his grey forelock,
and laid his oil-skin cap upon the table,
by the side of a basin full of greens. The
three listened with a passiveness which to
Mrs. Winyeatt seemed amazing ; she was
prepared for doubts, for objections, but none
were offered ; it might have been the most
natural thing in the world that an absolute
stranger should carry the girl away into a
new existence.

Her might so well go,' said the old
woman, addressing her husband. He nodded,
and listened while Mrs. Winyeatt unfolded
her plans and her bundle. The grandmother
felt the flannel between her finger and thumb
with satisfaction, and Polly at last flushed a
little. It appeared to Xorma that all was
calmly accepted with a want of questioning
which almost shocked her. What right had
they to trust her so completely ? She asked
whether they would not come up and see the

rector or Mrs. Lawrence, so as to hear their
opinion ? No.

Ef lieve got to go, lier can go,' said the
grandfather placidly.

So it was settled. Or rather Norma bade
them give her a final answer dien she came
down the hill again that mornings, and then
set herself to climb the street, feeling as if Ida
Coombes, had she been present, would have
been a more stormy power with which to
reckon.

She walked quickly. Wlien she reached
the top of the hill she was breathless. She
felt the need of either bodily exertion, or of
some mental action which should keep her
thoughts from drifting into one always open
channel. If she could not force them to be
occupied with Polly Medland, they were
quivering with the wonder of what fresh pain
she Avould be called upon to endure that day.
She was a very brave woman, but if she could,

how gladly would she have fled from what
lay before her !

After all, as is often the case, it passed off
better than she expected. Xelly was on the
watch for her, with a lovely bunch of autumn
roses, which she was to take away ; the
rector came out, cordially ready to welcome,
the sun shone, the grey rectory looked more
friendly. Father and daughter were astonished
at the promptitude of her plans for
Polly Medland ; she proposed to take her
the next day, spend Sunday in London,
and on Monday go with lier to the home in
Surrey.

Why tomorrow ? Stay till Monday,'
pleaded Xelly.

She's right,' added the rector ; ' stay and
see George.'

Norma hurriedly explained that this was
impossible ; for some reason, which she did
not attempt to make clear, her presence in

VOL. in. H

London was absolutely necessary. But she
listened with yearning interest to the little
remarks the rector let fall about his son ;
however inadequate they seemed  however
wanting in understanding  they were sweet,
they did something towards satisfying the
hunger of her heart. It made her angry that
his stores of learning and experience should
have no better appreciation than to be set
down as crotchets picked up when running
about the world, but it soothed her when the
father said in quite another voice, ' But he's
a good fellow  a very good fellow. I don't
know how we should have got through all
this time without him.'

Lucy was better  much better. It Alas
soon evident to Xorma that she intended to
keep the conversation on general lines.

I am i:oincf downstairs this afternoon,
and in a day or two I shall be quite well, and
driving out.' She glanced with a smile at

Norma, but Xorma was looking calmly at the
corner of the church, which could be seen
from the window.

And you really propose to stay in
Devonshire P '

I must, you see, if it is thought desirable,'
the girl answered demurely. ' It wouldn't do
to run dead against one's doctor. How
delighted Miss Elhson will be I '

I don't think it vill make much difference
to her,' said Xorma provoked.

Oh, the greatest ! ' returned Lucy. ' You
will be able to give yourselves unreservedly
to old Avoient and blankets ; the worldly
element will have departed ; dear Xorma,
depend upon it, you will enjoy your inter
immensely.'

Xorma did not answer  she could not.
Was the girl absolutely heartless ?

Presently Mrs. Lawrence came, bringing a
basin of soup for the invalid. She was thorny

H 2

with Norma, but less stiff than the day before,
perhaps even a little ashamed of her stiffness.
She discussed Polly Medland ; thought it very
kind of Mrs. Winyeatt, but rash, as the girl,
in spite of her passiveness beforehand, would
very likely fret, and might prove a great
burden. She promised, however, to speak to
Mr. James, and to write to Norma by that
evening's post if he objected ; she even went
so far as to ask her to wait and see him for
herself.

But Norma would not. A rebellion was
rising in her heart against, not her resolution,
but her position. She felt as if she had been
entrapped there, and something Lucy said
had given her the clue. Put before him as
she could not but feel it would be presented,
Lucy's illness minimised by Lucy, would it
not seem to Lawrence almost a studied insult,
timed as it was exactly to avoid him ? And
she could never, never set herself right, must

accept misunderstandings, silently drift away
from him, seek nothing better. She "was glad
when she could turn from the rectory ; she
would be more glad when she had left all
behind her.

Xelly again went with her. They called
at the ferryman's house, and found there was
no change of mind, nor any increase of excitement.
There was, fortunately, an early
steamer, and as it would be easier for the girl to
come by that, than to climb the hill to meet
any carriage, it was decided that her grandmother
should bring, and sirs. Vinyeatt meet
her at the landing-place. And this settled,
and Nelly's farewells  half shy, but more
enthusiastic than Xorma realised  spoken,
the boat pushed off ; and Xorma turned her
back upon the white cottages, and the salmon
nets shaken out by the breeze under the hill,
with a sigh of relief. It was ended  as she
thought  at any rate for a time, and she

might be alone with her pain, and prepare to
meet the struggle which her heart told her
had yet to come. Her heart told her so
much, but it failed to forewarn her how near
it was.

George Lawrence had two or three days
of unpleasant work with lawyers and bankers,
he never let anyone in after days know how
unpleasant. It was scarcely credible that so
small an income as the major's should have
arrived at such entanglement, and there was
nothing for it  or so he felt  but to place the
whole business in his own lawyer's hands, with
directions that debts should be fully paid.
Estella had been left executrix.

But Lawrence had made up his mind to
try his fortunes at Dover the first moment that
he could get away, and by Thursday he tore
himself free, and jumped into the train with
an exulting sense of escape. It seemed to him
a sign of good omen, and he was glad to seize

upon something which pointed in that direction.
But having resolved, he would not
torture himself with fear and doubt. He had
puzzled long enough over her words, he had
obeyed the advice which she had evidently
given in earnest, and had left her alone. Xow
the masterful man within him rose stoutly up
against further delay, and he swore that he
would put it to the touch  if she loved him,
he would know it ; if there was no hope for
him, he would meet it as a man. This time
there should be no middle course.

Everything wore a hopeful air. The
showers of that day did not touch southeastern
England. Wind was there, and
bright sparkling sunshine. As Lawrence
passed along the narrow drawbridges of the
inner harbours, the waters were full of light,
every vessel flung down its palpitating reflection,
men were hauling out cargoes, dogs barking
; the scene was just one where Xorma loved

to linger, and Lawrence looked eagerly on every
side, yearning to see her tall slender figure
standing in the sunlight. He went on
towards the house, picturing to himself how
he should find her. If she were out, he
would wait for her. How would her sweet
eyes greet him  with the old friendliness or
the new coldness ? Would he see his answer
in them at once, or should he wrench it from
her by force of his love ? He never thought
what he should say. That would come  fast
enough, strongly enough, he felt  when once
he and she stood face to face. He went on
with a sense of power, almost of triumph,
hot within him.

The parlour-maid smiled with welcome
when she saw him, and then looked sympathetically
sorry.

No, sir ; Mrs. Winyeatt is avay from
home.'

Away from home ! His face lost colour, for.

somehow or other, this possibility had never
entered into his calculations ; Norma seldom
left home, and surely if there had been talk
of it, Lucy would have mentioned it. Then
hope brightened again.

Is she by any chance in London ? '

No, sir. Li Devonshire  at Eivermouth.
I don't think Miss Lucy was very well, and
Mrs. Winyeatt left here on Tuesday.'

At Eivermouth ! Norma at Eivermouth 1
He had had a few lines that morning from his
mother, in which she said that Lucy was
certainly better, and nothing of this other
this wonderful news. What did it all
mean ?

Is Miss Agnes with her ? '

No, sir,' again. ' Miss Ellison has gone
away for a week, and has taken ]\Iiss Agnes.
Mrs. Winyeatt is coming back on Saturday.'


The day of his return. It was all inexplicable,

and his face had a blank dismayed
expression which made the servant ask
whether he woukl like to come in and sit
down.

No, thank you,' said Lawrence, recovering
himself. 'Miss Ellison, you say, is also
absent ? '

He walked back to the station. The
bustle in the harbour was as brisk and picturesque
as when he had passed it just now ; the
little white dog on board the Belgian steamer
was still barking, a machine like a great claw
was still seizing great blocks of ice, and dropping
them into a vessel, the same sun was
flooding sky and sea. Yet how changed it all
was ! Lawrence walked heavily, almost mechanically,
along, revolving what it meant,
what it was intended to mean. His face had
grown set and hard.

But suddenly he stood still, and brought
his stick sharply to the ground. He would

fathom this matter yet. K indeed Norma had
done this to let him know that his hopes were
vain, he would not accept such an indefinite
message, she should tell him plainly to his
face. He would go down by the earliest train,
and see her either at Marlham or Pdver-
mouth.

Lawrence was no dreamer, it was always
a relief to him to fly to definite action. He
had received a blow, and he was preparing to
meet another ; better that than tame resignation
of purpose. He caught his train, saw his
lawyer again, and listened unmoved to some
remonstrances which that gentleman considered
it his duty to make, dined at his club,
and the next morning was off by nine o'clock
for Devonshire.

Chance decided another question, though
not, as it turned out, very successfully. One
of the officers of the training-ship, whom he
knew, got into the same carriage, and as the

train would be stopped to allow him to turnout
at a little special station, Lawrence said he
would take advantage of it.

I want to get to Marlham as quickly as I
can,' he said, ' and this will put me well on
the way.'

If you are in a hurry, I can take 3'ou up
in the gig,' said the officer.

Under these circumstances, Lawrence was
quickly landed at Marlham ; but before reaching
it, he began to be filled with doubt as to
whether Norma would not after all be at
Eivermouth. Job's cottage was half-way
down the street ; it was possible that there
he might find out something, and the good-natured
sailor readily consented to wait for
the few minutes which it would take him to
ask. But before he reached it he was confronted
by Ida Coombes.

'Will that there lady be good to Polly?'
she demanded abruptly but forcibly.

What lady ? ' returned Lawrence impatiently.


The lady as corned from your house, and
is going' to take her to Lunnon.'

Some thought arrested Lawrence ; he put
questions to this anxious guardian, who, indeed,
was requiring more than grandfather
or grandmother, and through Ida's gruff yet
admiring description he gathered that it was
Norma, and that she had crone back to Rivers
He only waited a moment strongly
to emphasize Polly's good fortune, to which
Ida listened meditatively, divided between the
trouble of losing her, and pride at having
been the one to work this strange event,
before he ran down the hill, sprang into the
boat, and said with a laugh 

'Eivermouth  if you haven't exhausted
your fancy for doing me a good turn.'

It was getting dark when they reached it,
but Lawrence had worked himself up to a

condition in wliicli lie was altogether indifferent
to social trammels so far as they related
to times and seasons ; it appeared to him that
Norma must be conscious that he had come,
that he was seeking her, and that now nothing
could stand in his way. Yet he was not at
the end of obstacles ; they told him at the inn
that Norma had gone out. Where ? No one
knew, but Lawrence's exclamation was so
impatient that Chambers was sent for, and
Chambers, delighted to see Mr. Lawrence, was
ready with suggestions. There is at Rivers
 there has been from time immemorial
a broad and open space between town and
river, planted with low trees, and a favourite
lounging-place for an amphibious population.
Mrs. Winyeatt liked the quaint foreign-looking
walk; she had gone there the evening
before, and Chambers thought he would find
her there now. Lawrence went at once, and
when, through the gathering shadows, he saw

the tall figure lie knew so well, thrown into
strong relief against the still shining river, he
felt that, at last, the fates had favoured him.
She was standing still, her back to him, and
when, startled by his quick step close to her,
she turned, she saw the man of whom her
thoughts were full.

mMcmmmmmmi

Smki

m'mmm

CIIAPTEE XXVI.

The only failure a man ought to fear is failure in cleaving to
the purpose he sees to be best,  George Eliot.

AVe two walk on . .

AYith the moon's own sadness in our faces,
Adhere joy is withered, blossom and bud.

Jean Inqelow.

HOPED I should find you here,'
Lawrence said, stretching out his
hand.

He had taken her at a cruel disadvantage,
at a time when her self-control was slackened,
and when she believed herself to be as practically
alone as if she had found herself on
a desert island. She was thinking of him ;

arming herself against him, it was true, but
arming herself in imagination for some future
time ; at the present moment almost defenceless.
Xor was he disposed to show her any
mercy ; he saw something of the disturbance,
and, man that he was ! it filled him with
delighted triumph. She should have no time
to gather her routed forces.

Do 3'ou know where I have come from ? '
he demanded instantly. ' From Dover. I
went there yesterday to see you, heard you
were here, and came down by the first train.
I have been to Marlham, and now I have
come here. I was resolved to find you.'

There was a new masterful rincr in his
voice, which she had not heard there before.
She turned very white and her limbs trembled,
but she pulled herself together.

It must have certainly surprised you to be
told that I was in Devonshire. Lucy's maid
wrote rather a terrified letter about Lucy's

VOL. in. I

heal til, and as I felt uneasy, it seemed the
shortest way to run down and see for myself

Yes, I understand.' But he was merciless.
Did you expect to see me when you came ? '

I knew you were absent,' said Norma
quietly. There was a stone post close to her,
and she put her hand upon it, drawing her
long fur cloak tightly round her with the other
hand. Something in his voice warned her
that hard things lay before her.

You knew it, and therefore you came,' he
said roughly. ' Norma, what have I done that
you should set yourself to avoid me ? Is my
love  for you know well enough that I love
you  is it something that you will not even
treat seriously or friendlily ? '

She did not speak, and her silence stung
him.

You changed, and you gave me no reason
for the change,' he went on, his tone bitter
with suppressed feeling ; ' when I spoke you

only answered me vaguely ; when I sent you
messages  humble enough, weren't they? 
you granted them no notice.'

As he spoke she turned to ]him with an
involuntary start, but the next moment had
recovered herself, and was still silent.

Well,' said Lawrence, watching her, ' is
it to be the same now ? Are you still going
to pretend that you don't understand, that it
is nothing ? By Heavens, but it shall be
something this time ! ' His voice changed,
shook. ' Xornia, forgive me ! I have tried
to do what it seemed you wished ; have kept
away from you, though you little know how
hard it has been ; have been patient  own
that I have been patient !  but all the time I
have been waiting. Every day, every hour was
bringing me nearer to this moment. Xow it
has come, now I have found you  oh, my
love, say that you love me !  that you will be
my wife ! '

He vas close to her, another moment
and she would have been in his arms, but
that she put out her hand to keep him back.
Her breath came shortly, like a person's in
sharp pain, and her voice had a ring which
was almost hard.

No,' she said, ' no ! I cannot ! '

Cannot ! '  he repeated the word slowly.
Norma, that is not to be my answer ? '

It is all I can give,' she said in the same
tone.

He made a step back and stood looking at
her.

No,' he said quietly ; ' I have the right to
something more, and I claim my right. You
must give me some reason. You do not say
will not, but cannot. Why cannot you ? '

His voice was insistent, but she remained
silent.

Tell me then,' he persisted, ' if you were
not soin? from here tomorrow in order to

avoid the possibility of meeting me  and
why ? '

This time she turned her white face
quickly on him.

To prevent this ! ' she cried. ' To spare
both you and  me.'

He moved nearer her again, and there was
a touch of triumph in his words, though he
spoke them with studied calm.

You admit, ,then, that it costs you something?'


Yes,' she said passionately, ' I admit it.
It does not alter anything, it only makes it
harder for us both ; it would have been better
if I had left it unsaid, but if  if you consider
you have a right to know '

'Yes,' he interrupted, 'I have a right to
know.' But ]ie did not ask her to finish her
sentence. After all, it was finished  to his
heart. He was only thinking what it could be
which stood between them. Whatever it was,

he was prepared to trample upon it, to beat
it down. He could have laughed at the preposterous
fancy that any shadowy scruple
could separate them, but he knew that to her
sensitive spirit, things which seemed trivial to
him might become a dangerous force. He
must get at it, must drag the phantom into
light. 'Norma,' he said steadily, 'I claim
nothing from you, but I ask you from the
bottom of my heart to be frank with me.
Why do you say you cannot marry me ? '

I cannot tell you.'

Let me find out,' he answered, with the
tenderest pleading in his voice. ' Is  is there
anyone else ? '

Anyone else ?  Xo ! ' she cried so impetuously
that he almost smiled with the joy
of hearing how the secret of her heart flew
out in the words.

No one living, but  is it the dead, is it
Paul who stands between us ? '

This time her answer was longer in coming,
less assured when it came.

It should be,' she said. ' I am ashamed
to think of what has become of all my dreams
of lifelong constancy. You may well despise
me, I despise myself '

Despise you ! ' he said brokenly, but with
intense thankfulness, for this dread of his rival
Paul had been foremost in his heart, and that
once gone he felt as if nothing could remain
to fear. He tried to take her hand in his,
but she drew swiftly back, and even in the
dim light something in her white face struck
on his exultation with a sudden chill.

No,' she said sadly, ' all this changes
nothing. Perhaps I have been wrong in
saying so much, but I trust you ; and though
I would have spared you and myself what
can only  only be added pain, you have
come upon me when I expected nothing,
and I have not been strong enough to pretend

what would not have been the truth.
It may be better as it is, for you see I have
hidden nothing  I don't deny  and so when I
tell you that nothing you can say, nothing
that I can feel, can change me, that I cannot
marry you and yet that I cannot explain myself,
you will  you must believe, though ' 
her voice dropped  ' you may not be able to
forgive me.'

His face darkened. The steady hopelessness
of her words gave them a force
which he felt, while all his being rose up
against them. What was this barrier behind
which she had entrenched herself ? What was
this intangible obstacle, against which he instinctively
knew all his powers would be required
? He was conscious of an almost overmastering
desire to take her in his arms, and
beat down these imaginary scruples by force
of will, but he dared not. To win her fora
moment might be to lose her for ever. He

stood looking moodily at her. They were
almost at the edge of the open space which
has been mentioned, below which the river
flowed along with hungry lap of water
against the stones. Every now and then a
dark boat swept by ; the yachts at anchor
were showing lights, lights twinkled from the
houses opposite, a train glared redly under the
wooded hills. He had never been so near
Xorma, so alone with her ; the hour in which
she owned that she loved him should have
been one of perfect joy, and yet here he was,
baffled, tormented, held apart, from her by
her indomitable resolution.

Xorma,' lie said slowly, ' you cannot
expect me to be content with what you have
said ? '

It is all I have to give,' she answered in
the same tone.

It is nothing. You are absolutely unfettered.
If ever a woman held her Hfe in her

own hands, you are that woman. You have
no one so much as to consult. If you told
me that you didn't like me, I should have
nothing to say against it  you'd have reason
enough and to spare. Or if you said I wasn't
a big enough man, or a rich enough man 
well, there would be a reason. But  oh, my
darling ! '  he caught her hand in both his,
and his voice was broken and hoarse  ' you
own that all this hurts you, you let me see
that I could win you, and then  then you
thrust me back, and say nothing but that it
can't be I '

She drew her hand away, and her whole
frame was shaking like a child's.

What shall I do ? What shall I say ? I
can't say anything. Don't you see that I
would if I could ? You are a man  you are
strong  oh, don't torture me ! '

The almost inarticulate cry gave him a
thrill. He had never seen her so moved.

Torture you I Xorma, if I could spare
you anything ! '

Oh, you can ! You must believe me, and
ask no questions.*

He shook his head.

I can't believe it.'

Then trust me I ' she cried passionately.

He thought before he answered. Then he
said, ' I have no need either to trust or to
believe that all you do is from the noblest,
purest motives, because I know it  I know
it absolutely. But as to whether you are
not letting our happiness, our happiness, be
wrecked on account of some imaginary duty,
some uncalled-for sacrifice  as to that I can't
feel the slightest assurance. Dearest, tell me
what it is ! Let me judge.'

She drew herself together, shivering. And
she seemed to have given up the appeal, for
her voice was dull and heavy.

I can never tell you.'

At least  if this barrier does exist now,
it is impossible it can continue  there must be
some limit ? '

'No.'

Oh,' he said impatiently, ' this is too
much ! You are putting an impossible strain
on my patience '

She interrupted him. ' You must not
talk of patience, there is no question of
that. It is all over, all at an end from tonight.'


This time he laughed out.

At an end ! No. To that I have something
to say. You may forbid me to hope,
but you can't forbid me to wait.'

Oh, how cruel you are ! ' she murmured.
The next moment she had recovered herself.
I can't forbid you, but 1 can tell you it is
useless, and if I know you at all, I know that
you are not the man to persecute a woman.
Don't you see that all that you have said

does not shake me ? What I have to do Thes
before me as clearly as ever.'

The level tone m which she uttered this
almost irritated him. It was true, as she
said, that she had not moved from her
position, neither passion nor pleading drawing
from lier her secret of resistance. He said
doggedly 

I quite realise that you won't give way.
But I don't see how you can deny me the
same privilege of obstinacy.'

Xot if I assure you it is useless ? '

I mean to see that out for myself

She sighed, and made a quick movement
of her hands.

Then if I implore you ? '

But he was still obstinate. Only this
voice went back to its more dangerous
tenderness.

Dearest, it is useless. Nothing that you
can say will have the slightest effect upon me.

not even if you ask me to do this because I
love you, which is a woman's last resource.
Because I do love you I will never give you
up ; this obstacle of yours cannot last for ever,
and you shall be mine. Norma  whether or
no ! '

She turned upon him impetuously.

When first you came upon me here, I
knew that I ought not to listen to you. It
could only make it harder for us both. And
yet it seemed that I owed you so much. I
believed that if I suffered you to see that 
that it was necessity which obliged me to act
as I have acted, you would be generous,
judge me as kindly as you could, and act
kindly  leave me. Oh, I wish I had not
foolishly believed all this ! It was wrong to
see you, wrong to let you speak  it makes it a
hundred times more miserable ! '

Don't blame yourself, at any rate,' he said
hurriedly. 'I should have forced you to

listen to me. If I lead not found you here,
I would have gone after you to Dover. I
don't suppose 1 am generous. As for judging

you But  leaving you  that's another

matter ! '

When he said this she was walking towards
the town, and she let her hands drop
with a gesture of discouragement.

Do you mean,' she said in a low voice,
to force me to break up my home, and to go
out of England ? '

Would you do that ? ' he demanded,
startled.

I would do anything.'

He thrust his hands into his pockets, and
walked on. At last he burst out angrily 

Oh, I'm not going to  what's your word ?
persecute you to that extent ! You can
keep me out of your house, and I shan't sit
on a post and watch you from a distance, if
that's what you're afraid of. But I don't

give you up. I will never give you up while
Hive?

Good-bye,' she said, ignoring the latter
part of his speech, and stopping.

He took her outstretched hand in his, but
he did not let it go. Was this the end of all
his hopes ?

Xorma,' he cried out passionately, ' this
is unendurable! If I felt there was a just
cause for it, I suppose I could bear it ; but to
be parted for some morbid quixotic fancy ! 
Tell me one thing. Does Miss Ellison, does
anyone know your reason ? '

One person knows ; I will not tell you
who it is.'

It is a hateful riddle. I shan't rest till
I've undone it. I shall ask Miss Lucy to
Iielp me.'

She was silent.

I believe I have been a fool. I have
promised more than I ever intended. What

is it that I have said ? That I will not go to
your house ? '

Yes. It is a promise.'

A promise unfairly extorted, then. You
can never trust to a woman's justice. But I
must have some limitation  I can't be left
out in the cold for ever, Xorma ! '

His words were almost petulant, but his
tone was heavy with an anguish that went to
her heart. And she could say nothing. She
could only answer by a mutes piteous gesture
that so it must be ; thankful that the merciful
darkness hid her eyes.

Will you swear something ? ' he said
suddenly.

'What?'

Swear that if the moment comes  it
must come  it shall come  if the moment
comes when you are free from this hateful
millstone, whatever it is  swear that you

VOL. III. K

will let me know. There must be no hanging
back, no woman's pretences  swear it.'

She hesitated. Then  ' If you are as you
are now, I swear it,' she said faintly.

He repeated the words ponderingly. ' If
I am as I am now? Well, I have your
promise, and you will not fail me. Either
you or  who shall I say ?  I must have one
more chance  Miss Ellison ? she's friendly 
no. Miss Winyeatt. You or Miss Winyeatt
will tell me when the barrier's up. Is that all
the best you can give me. Norma ? '

Could he let her go ? Perhaps she read
the struggle in his voice, for she turned
swiftly, and without a word went away towards
the inn. He made no attempt to
follow her, perhaps conscious that she could
bear no more, yet that she would not yield,
and his own heart was in a turmoil, in which
it was difficult to say which feeling was
uppermost. Exultation had a large share 

he could not doubt that she loved him, and
there were moments m which the certainty of
this seemed worth any price that he might
have to pay. Since Calais lie had been dismally
uncertain, and a day before he would
have been ready to accept whatever limitation
the knowledge brought with it ; but already
it had proved so sweet, so intoxicating that
the draught could not satisfy him.

For some time, it might have been an hour,
he stood there, looking, and heedless of anything
about him. At last he followed her
steps to the inn, stood for a minute in the
doorway, came out again and went to the
house of an old sailor whose boat he sometimes
used. He arranged that the man
should come for his boat to Marlham the
next morning, and then went back to the
place where Norma and he had stood, and
down some slippery steps. The old sailor
got hold of his boat and brought her in, and

K 2

Lawrence wished him a short good-night, and
started for his lonely pull up the river. His
thoughts were in a whirl, and he pulled hard,
feeling the exercise a sort of outlet, but all
round the quiet and soberness of the evening
was in curious contrast to his own inner man.
The moon was high in the heavens, and flung
a long dazzling reflection upon the rippling
waters, the hills rose mistily dark on either
side, beneath them white houses gleamed here
and there, masts of vessels cut the soft gloom ;
from the town and the yachts anchored near
golden points of light were repeated, wavering,
in the water, and gradually, as Lawrence
drew up the river, all sound died away except
the creaking of the oars in the rowlocks, and
the bubbling swish of the water against the
boat.

Lawrence pulled hard and thought hard,
but all his thinking seemed to brins him not
one jot nearer the answer to the riddle.

What did it mean ? what possible visionary
thing was this which separated them ? How
could he discover  crush it ? Xot for an
instant did he dream of giving up, but he was
like one of the ancients to whom the Sphinx
had propounded her mysteries, baffled, tormented,
all his happiness hanging on an
enigma. It seemed to him that his thoughts
travelled everywhere, he forced them to follow
one road after another, and yet they never
lit upon a discovery  never so much as approached
it. For this he wanted a woman's
intuition, or a woman's malice.

And meanwhile, what of Xorma, poor
Xorma ?

She had been nearer an utter physical
break-down than Lawrence had once guessed.
He could see that her face was very white,
but the darkness of evening hid from him its
ashen pallor, and the trembling of her limbs.
He had come upon her unexpectedly, when

she was unnerved by all she had gone through,
and had let her thoughts stray softly and
yieldingly towards him, with the yearning we
feel for one from whom we are separated forever.
If she had known she was to meet him
she would have braced herself and prepared
her weapons, but he was at her side before she
had time for so much as a thought of preparation,
and the thrill of seeing him all but
routed her forces  or so she fancied, for in
truth she was too strong to be routed by
misadventures.

When  she hardly knew how  she reached
her room, she locked her door, and fell on her
knees by the bed, pressing her face upon its
covering, and trying to shut out thought and
remembrance. But they are visitors who will
not be denied. Not one word  not one bitter
cry of his love  but came back, and burnt
itself upon her heart with intolerable pain.
She saw him standing before her, she heard his

voice, tender, harsh, always instinct with love,
and she found herself answering him with very
different words than those she had forced
herself to utter. What it might have been
to them both  this meeting under the moon !
Why had she suffered herself to fall into such
cruel bondage  to wreck, as she now knew,
a double happiness P She pressed her hot eyes
against the cool sheet. Was there no way out
of it ? Could she not appeal to Lucy ? Appeal
to Lucy ?  with the thought came a dull hesivy
weight of despair, for if Lucy yielded, what
sort of a vieldino would it be ? She was not
generous, she would never forget ; all her lifelong
Norma would be haunted by a remorseful
consciousness that Paul's sister held her to
have spoiled her life. And as she had said to
herself before  this was a burden she dared
not take up.

Another thought was not so hopeless.
When the girl found that her waiting was

useless, would she not voluntarily give it up ?
With Lawrence's words hot in her ears, with
the grasp of his hands on her hands, Norma
flung back her head and pondered over this
new hope. But Lucy  as she knew of old 
was indomitably persistent, and, casting back,
she could not remember one instance in which
when she had resolved upon anything she had
not carried it out. Her methods were never
aggressive or violent, but it seemed to her now '
as if they were as strong as steel. And
perhaps Norma did not rate men's fidelity
very highly, having seen many of those who
had sworn they could not live without her,
very comfortably established with wives, and
apparent happiness, within not a long time
of their rejection. Lawrence, of course, was
different, but she was humble enough to believe
that even with Lawrence time and obstacles
would weary him out, and that he could not
but resent what to him must appear most unreasonable

conduct. And with Lucy persistent

and Lawrence weary

Long that night, long after the world about
had gone to sleep, and all the little clamour
of the street was hushed, Norma sat by her
window, looking out at the river flowing
darkly to the sea  looking at years which unrolled
themselves in dull sequence. When
the crash comes, when sorrow meets us face
to face, and will have no more disguise, we
cannot take refuge in the consciousness that
here is the common lot : from every heart
goes up the cry, ' What have I done ? Why
is this anguish heavy on me ? ' Miss Ellison
once said to some one who talked about some
terrible blow being God's appointment, ' I
don't believe it is His appointment. He can
overcome it with good, and He will, if we let
Him ; but as for all this misery, I believe it is
the devil's sending.' And when her friend
looked shocked, she demanded whether the

Son of God had not spoken of the infirm woman
being bound by Satan  ' lo, these eighteen
years ' ? The words came back to Norma, it
seemed as if her heart re-echoed them ; though
the world were out of gear, and she had to
bear her part in its suffering, through all and
above all the abiding Love made itself felt in
this her dark hour. She was very sad for
him and for herself  sadness did not rob her
for one moment of her trust.

When Chambers came into her room in the
morning, Norma was at last lying asleep, but
so white that the maid looked at her with
dismay. She treated her fears, however, lightly,
saying she had had a bad night, but that
nothing really ailed her, and she was glad to
remember that she had something to do that
morning, and a journey to make. Anything
was better than time for miserable thought.

The day was mild though damp, with
occasional spit of rain, and flying scuds from

the west  nothing to interfere with Polly's
coming. But the hours dragged wearily, for,
on the girl's account, lIrs. Winyeatt could not
leave by the first train, and she was in deadly
terror of seeing Lawrence again, and would
not go out until it was time to meet the river
steamer, when she walked towards it quickly,
looking neither to the left nor right.

Polly was there, and her grandfather, and
Ida Coombes, whose mingled feelings were
making her loudly combative. From what
Mrs. Winyeatt gathered, she had come very
much against the wishes of the old people, but
with a sense of responsibility for the slight and
fragile girl which was not without its pathetic
side, it was so curiously incongruous. It evidently
pleased her very much when sirs.
Winyeatt asked her whether she would like to
cross with them by the steam ferry, and see
Polly into the train.

Their now ! ' she burst out, turnings triumphantly

upon the old ferryman. 'An' you
and granny said herd be shamed for me to be
here ! ' Then, stung by some thought, she
flung a sombre look upon Mrs. Winyeatt.
You'd certain you'd not shamed ? If you
be, I'll bide here.'

Norma put out her hand and laid it on the
girl's muscular arm.

I should like you to come. I'm not one
bit ashamed,' she said smiling.

Ida looked at her with eyes which had
suddenly grown smaller, then down at the
hand on her arm, hesitated, and finally flung
herself upon a bundle which Mrs. Winyeatt
supposed to contain Polly's clothes, until
Chambers told her afterwards that when it
was unfastened in the train it was found to
contain what Polly called a squab pie (a
mixture of mutton, apples, and pastry), half a
loaf, a hunch of cheese, six large apples, a pot
of cream, and a large screw of lollipops.

Polly and Chambers ate what they could, and
Polly cried over the rest. She said it was all
Ida's present. At the station Ida hugged her
tumultuously, and cast such threatening looks
at a porter who grinned over the scene, that
that functionary hastened to retreat. And
then Ida delivered herself of her last advice.

He'll do,' she said, indicating ]airs. Win-yeast
by a jerk of her elbow ; ' but if anybody
else tries to put upon 'ee, you let me know,
and I'll come and take 'ee away. I weed, if I
walked every step o' the way.'

And the last which Mrs. Winyeatt saw as
the train steamed out of the station was Ida
in tears racing along the platform and waving
vigorously.

Something else she saw when she looked
on the other side  something which took the
colour out of her face.

High up the river, and apart, was a little
motionless boat, in which a man sat, also

PAUL S SISTER

motionless, watching the train. As it moved
along, not as yet having reached full speed, he
bent forward, and though he made no sign,
she could feel or imagine she felt the intensity
of his gaze, the mute anguish of his farewelL

But did one touch of such love for me

Come in a \vord or a look of yours,
Whose words and looks will, circling, flee

Round me and round while life endures 
Could I fancy ' As I feel, thus feels he ! '

R. Browsing.

|U'~'iT was not until late that afternoon
that Lucy saw George Lawrence.
He had arrived the night before,
when all the household had gone to bed, having
stayed out on the river, and rowed up a
long creek under overhanging trees, neither
noticing nor much caring where he was going,
but with a dim sense that while the struggle
within was so fierce, solitude and darkness

and the absence of even kindly eyes, were
grateful.

He was wildly angry with himself and
with Norma. Why had he yielded ? Why
had he not forced this foolish fatal secret from
her, that he might have tossed it to the winds,
stamped upon it, hurled upon it the contempt
it deserved ? Since the moment that she had
left him, he had piled arguments upon arguments
; so far as he could remember he had
been idiotic throughout the interview, said
nothing, done nothing, deserved nothing. He
might have laughed her to scorn, he might
have refused to be bound by those restrictions
over which, here in the dark silence, he
ground his teeth. The whole thing, her persistence,
his yielding  all was sheer folly ; no
sane man would have gained his advantages,
and then calmly flung them away, as he had
ridiculously done. So  his passion.

But through this passion and its protests

there ran the intolerable conviction that nothing
he could have said or done would have
moved Norma from her steadfastness. Womanly
as were her words, pitiful for herself
and him, there had never been a moment
when they had faltered from weakness of resolve.
She had given him no hope from first
to last, and with the conviction his own hope
sickened and was ready to die in his heart.
But after he had gone through a very slough
of despond, it would spring up again, and still
vigorous, and he would repeat all the old arguments,
and go over all the old ground, and
convince himself that soon there must be a
break in the dark cloud which hung over
them. And this break he generally felt would
come through Lucy's interference.

Everything had grown so quiet on the
river that only the gurgle of the water and
the occasional leap of a fish broke the silence.
When he began to think about his surrounding.

III. L

kings he could not at first recognise them, until
presently he made out the outline of an old
mill, ghostly in the darkness. Then he
turned the boat, and rowed for the village,
reaching it when every light was extinguished,
and a barking dog, convinced that he was a
man of evil designs, Alas the only living creature
to greet him. He stumbled up the hill
between the peaceful white cottages, set in
their flowery nooks, feeling strangely tired,
and beginning to realise that he had had no
food since morning.

The rectory was of course shut up, and
dark from roof to ground. He would not
alarm his mother by ringing, and felt with
some o'rim amusement that he was homeless
as well as hungry. But in the country bolts
and bars are not very strictly observed, and
he strongly suspected that by making the tour
of the house he should find some undefended
window. He reached it at last in the old

school-room, and as lie knew of old the trick
of the shutter, by the help of his knife he
managed to get in, then hushed up Toby by
a word, discovered a cold pie in the back
kitchen, ate it on the kitchen table, and
laughed at the thought of the servants' faces
when they came down the next morning.

'They deserve a fright for leaving windows
unfastened,' he said to himself, as he
took off his boots and went up the back staircase,
which creaked as it never creaked by
day. Luckily for him his room was prepared
for his coming next day, and in spite of his
misery he slept soundly, while Xorma was
still watching the stars vrith her face pressed
against the cold window pane.

But he was up the next morning even
before his father, early riser as he was, startling
the maids almost as much by his appearance
as they had been frightened by finding
remains of the cold pie in the kitchen.

L 2

He breakfasted upon what lie had left,
scrawled a note to his mother, merely saying
that he had come home unexpectedly, and
was obliged to go out early, and then took
himself off again, and down to the river. He
wanted to find out by what train Norma was
going, and this he discovered from the ferryman.
Then he took to his boat and rowed
violently to Ei vermouth.

Norma was not wrong in dreading to go
out lest she should meet him, for he watched
the inn closely, having persuaded himself by
some effort of casuistry that their compact
did not come into force until she had left the
place. But he strained his eyes in vain until
the time for the boat arrived, and she came,
safely guarded by Chambers. Then he pulled
up the river again, and took up his position
where she saw him.

He did not make his appearance at the
rectory until late in the afternoon, and turned

off his mother's wondering questions with as
few answers as possible. He had come down
unexpectedly the day before, had business in
Eivermouth, that night and this morning, and
had got into the house like a thief to prevent
a general disturbance. She was too shrewd
a woman not to see that a good deal lay
behind this broadly-sketched outline, but
Lawrence made it evident that he lead no intention
of entering into detail, and her uneasiness
had to remain unsatisfied.

Meanwhile Lucy had passed a terrified day.
That Lawrence should have come in so late
the night before  that he should have gone
out at so early an hour  what did it, what
could it mean but that he had been with
Norma ? Even if her sister-in-law had been
faithful to her promise, Lucy felt with despair
that the sight of her would probably stir
all those feelings which she persuaded herself
might die out for want of fuel, into frame.

One of her strongest hopes had been that circumstances
would keep them separate until
time, and his anger at her coolness, produced
their effect.

When George Lawrence came into the
study before dinner, he and she looked at
each other quickly. Illness had softened her
face, and though she had lost a certain brilliancy,
her beauty had gained more than it had
lost, and her pleasure at seeing him again
added a tender charm which he noticed without
understanding its cause. With him she
saw at once that things were not going
smoothly. He was grave and worried.

I am afraid my gloomy prophecies were
correct, and that you have had a real breakdown,'
he said, taking her hand kindly, and
looking down upon her. She looked very
slight and pale in the great arm-chair by the
fire.

I am well again now,' she said flushing.

I was a little over-done, but it was nothing
of the slightest importance.'

Mrs. Winyeatt thought it of importance,'
he said at once.

Yes. Imagine my amazement at her
walking in ! Have you seen Xorma ? '

Yes.'

She is looking very well, isn't she r '

Yes.'

He was staring at the fire, and his thoughts
had flown away to the white face set in evening
shadows which kept itself so persistently
before him. He did not even know what
Lucy was asking. mrs. Lawrence, who was
tearing up papers at the writing-table, looked
up.

I cannot but think that Mrs. Winyeatt
has acted rashly in taking that delicate child
into a colder climate,' she said. ' I sent for
her grandmother and spoke to her about it.
All she said was that Polly had set her heart

upon going, and that great Ida Coombes
encouraged her.'

Lucy was silent, looking at Lawrence.
He said rather impatiently 

I presume the doctor was the person to
ask.'

Doctors are sometimes glad to get rid
of their patients, and I still consider it ill-judged,'
persisted his mother. 'It was so
hasty.'

Dear Mrs. Lawrence, don't be afraid,' put
in Lucy quickly. ' Xorma is not one of those
persons who take up a fancy and drop it again
directly ; everything she says she will carry
out thoroughly. Do tell the grandmother
not to be afraid.'

She knew that Lawrence was looking at
her, and she heard him draw a deep breath
when she stopped.

I am pleased to hear you say so, my dear,'
said Mrs. Lawrence ; ' but I think you are one

of the people who judge others by themselves,
and are always ready to defend.'

Mrs. Winy eat t requires no defence,'
Lawrence replied with a darkening face.

Xo, we know her better, don't we ? ' said
Lucy gaily, while the mother pursed her lips
together, and wondered at the blindness and
wrong-headedness of man. Then the rector
came in, and the conversation changed.

It drifted back into the same channel,
however, more than once  almost, as it seemed,
in spite of everybody. Mrs. Lawrence was
antagonistic, and her son displeased, and
more irritable than Lucy had ever known
him, for the wound was open, and any
touch upon it, even of his father's loud
admiration, was sharp pain. He could not
but turn gratefully to Lucy. It was true that
some words she let drop, such as those about
Norma's steady resolution, hurt scarcely less
than his mother's blame, but it was a different

kind of hurt and carried with it no sting.
And Lucy was so anxious to defend, to praise,
showed herself so susceptible for Norma, was
so clever in bringing in instances of her
goodness, that his heart warmed to her, and
he felt an eager longing to pour out to her his
mysterious difficulties.

But this was not easy. Without apparent
drawing back on her part, she contrived that
he should never find her alone, setting all her
woman's wit to baffle his attempts. Little
plans and counter-plans being much to her
taste, she wove them now incessantly, and
with success. Each day George determined
to have his talk, each day she eluded him, for
she argued that in the present position of
affairs, time was everything. Norma had
evidently been true to her promise, and
perhaps, after all, more good than harm had
been done by the interview which had given
her such a fright.

George, despairing, at last appealed to this
sister.

Xelly,' he said, ' help me. I want to
speak to Miss Winyeatt.'

What for ? ' said the girl suspiciously.
She did not share her mother's ideas, but this
speech startled her.

I want to find out something about Mrs.
Winyeatt.'

She looked at him, fingering Toby's ears
the while.

I should go to Mrs. Winyeatt herself,'
she remarked. ' But if that is what you want,
I understand why you can't get hold of Lucy.
It's easy enough, though. We've got to take
her out on the river to-day ; when we come
back I'll go into the Browns' cottage, and you
can keep her outside. I'll tell her the boy
has had the mumps. So he had, six months

ago.

This arrangement succeeded, and as soon

as Lucy found the tete-astute inevitable, she
yielded with an excellent grace.

How picturesque and charming it is here ! '
she said. ' There could not be a nicer place
for waiting. You should have brought me
to see it before, Mr. Lawrence.'

And indeed the place was pretty enough
on this brilliant autumn day. The hill,
covered with fruit trees, ran sharply down to
the beach, and here, raised each on its little
causeway, were three or four fishermen's cottages.
Beyond them the hill curved into a
promontory forming a sheltered bay. The tide
was half high, washing the little beach with
silvery ripples, and the tall irregular poles for
the fishing-nets gave character to the whole.
A boat was drawn up just below them, and
on this Lucy herself proposed that they
should sit.

As I am not quite strong yet, and as
Nelly may be for ages in that cottage,' she

said with a smile. And she added with quite
genuine feeling  'How much she has tried todo
since Major Macarthy's death ! '

Miss Winyeatt,' said Lawrence abruptly,
I want to enlist your help.'

Mine ? ' She flashed a ready look upon
him, but he was staring out at the river, and
frowning slightly.

'I saw Mrs. Winyeatt the other day. I
went to Dover, and found she was here. I
came back at once, and spoke to her the same
evening at Pdvermouth.'

She was silent.

I wanted to end a painful suspense.' He
paused, and then said quickly, ' I needn't tell
you what it was '

You have never told me before,' she interrupted,
with a sharp ring in her voice.

It wasn't necessary, was it ? ' he said,
glancing at her with some surprise. ' I've never
made any secret of it, and I hoped you were

kind enough to feel some interest. Though I
don't know that you offered mucji hope.'

Perhaps I knew Norma better than you.'

He went on without taking apparent
notice.

I put it to the touch at last. I found her
and said what I had to say.'

'Well?'

She was sitting on the edge of the boat,
and was holding it with each hand, her grasp
like iron.

Well,' he repeated with a hard attempt at
a laugh, 'there it appears to have all ended,
and that's why I've come to you. All that she
says is that she can't marry me. Why can't
she?'

He put the question sharply, almost
fiercely, and Lucy looked away.

You should ask Norma,' she said in a
cold yet trembling voice.

Ask her ! I have asked  I have implored.

There's the rub of it  to have one's  well, to
get no reason, only that bare can't. But she
and you are everything to one another, and
I've pinned all my hopes upon your giving mea
hint. I can't make it out.'

Norma is not like other women  she is
very self-contained  she has Agnes  I never
believed she would marry again '

Lucy let fall these sentences falteringly,
word by word, and as she said them George
Lawrence stood up from the boat against
which he had been leaning, and thrust his
hands into his pockets, looking at her.

'Xot one of those is the right reason,' he
said obstinately, ' and I see by your face that
you could tell me if you would.'

She started as if she had been stung.

'You are unjust, unfeeling,' she cried
passionately ; ' you are only thinking of yourself!
What have I to do with it ? How can
I make Norma love you ! '

Perhaps his own strong feeling kept him
from understanding where hers pointed, or perhaps
she was not in his thoughts at all except
as a means by which he might reach another.

As to that,' he said slowly, and still looking
at her, ' we understand each other. I
shouldn't come to you if we didn't. It's the
obstacle. Some trumpery foolish thing, I'll
answer for it.'

No ! ' cried Lucy, stung out of self-control.

Then you knovv what it is.' said Lawrence
coolly. ' So I supposed. Now, Miss Winy eat t,
you and I have always been very good friends.
You are not going to condemn me to misery ? '

She had made a slip, for she had never
intended to allow him to suppose that she
was acquainted with Norma's secret. But
Lawrence was in no mood for small shuffling
equivocations, and she dared not practise
them upon him. She looked at him helplessly,
and he came a step nearer.

Come,' he said.

If I do know,' she said, recovering herself,
how can you ask me to be so false ? If Norma
did not tell you, how can I tell you ? You
men believe women to have no honour ! '

Oh, if it is a question of honour, I beg
your pardon,' he said grimly. ' I thought  I
think still  that it was only a matter of morbid
scrupulousness. Just consider '  (then he
changed his tone again)  ' how much there is
at stake, and don't be so stiff in your decision.
The happiness of us both '

No ! ' she interrupted desperately.

'No?'

You don't know  you don't know each
other  you don't know Norma '

He laughed out.

'I know enough. No, that's not the trouble.
It's this hateful thing  whatever it is  which
stands in the way. Will you tell me nothing
about it ? Is it real, is it tangible ? '

VOL. in. M

Yes.'

Is it a person, then ? '

That I did not say,' she said helplessly.

You don't deny it, though ; and what thing,
what abstract thing can it be ? No, it's a
person  but who ? Who is there who can so
cruelly influence her life ? I wish I had him
here. The matter should be soon settled.'

As she did not answer, after a momentary
pause he went on again, more coolly 

Miss Winyeatt, is it really impossible for
you to stretch a point, and give me such a
hint as might help me ? You don't know how
much I have depended upon your goodness.
It Avould be something to know what I had
to fight, instead of groping in the dark,
and everlastingly running my head against
a wall.'

She was looking away, but she shook her
head.

Will you tell me, then, whether you are

of the same opinion as Its. Winyeatt, that the
obstacle is insuperable P "

'Yes; Her lips \ere so dry that it
was difficult for her to frame even single
words. He made a quick movement of the
head 

But not lasting r Xot to go on for ever r '

I think so.'

Absurd, ridiculous." he burst out ancrrilv.
'As if I or any man should put up With a
phantom barrier I I was a fool to give way
as much as I did, and to make that idiotic
promise.'

What ? '

What ? That I would keep away from
her. I am not to go near her until she  or you
by the way, I got that small concession 
she or you tell me I may come. I shouldn't
have been such a fool if I hadn't believed you
would have told me what there was against
me.'

X 2

'But you must keep your promise,' she said
in a strained voice.

He did not deny it, but he looked gloomily
at the ground.

'After a time,' she added, leaning forward
and speaking slowly, ' you will forget.'

Do you think so ? ' he asked, looking at
her this time. ' I've a sort of idea that
Mrs. Winyeatt is not the sort of person one
forgets.'

But what else can you do ? ' It seemed
as if some power were forcing her on in spite
of herself.

Well, what I've got to do is to find out
what you won't tell me.'

You will never succeed,' she said quickly.

I think I shall  in time. I can wait if
waiting is necessary, and something tells me
I shall succeed in the end.'

That,' she said in a low passionate voice,
that means that you will give your life for a

dream. It is nothing more now, and it will
come to no more in the end.'

Why do you prophesy ill so persistently ? '
Lawrence asked, looking at her in surprise.
You know well enough that this is no dream.
It's a reality which I mean to make my own.'

She got off the boat, and stood by it, but
still clung to it with one hand, as to a support.


I think,' she said faintly, ' that I must go
back now, without waiting any longer for
XeUy.'

You look very tired,' he said, struck with
remorse.

Yes, I am tired, and rather chilled. Do
you know that you take a good deal out of
one by your  appeals ? '

I am sorry,' he said gravely.

Her words, her attitude, indeed, throughout
this conversation had disappointed and
puzzled him, for he had expected active

sympathy, and eager offers of help. Instead
of these, her manner had been constrained,
and he could not but gather that she rather
set herself to hinder than to help. He put it
down to her conviction that the position of
affairs was hopeless, but it surprised him that
even were it so, her words had not been more
friendly. He waited now for her to move,
but she hesitated for a moment, and pushed a
pebble with her foot.

I remember that not very long ago
you confessed that you were obstinate,' she
said.

It was not very long ago, and I suppose
that I haven't lost the habit,' he replied. ' At
any rate, I feel obstinate enough now.'

Yes,' she returned bitterly ; ' that you
have explained clearly.'

'Would you have me anything else?' he
demanded in surprise. ' You know her, know
what she is, her nobility, her sweetness  tell

me honestly whether you could conceive any
man fool enough to let this all slip out of
his hand because some bugbear stood in the
way ? '

She faced him with a passionate look in
her eyes.

It is her fault  her fault ! ' she cried
hotly. ' She should not have told you that
she cared for you ! '

Lawrence flushed a dull red.

Whatever comes of it,' he said, ' she
has given me the greatest honour of my
life.'

It was only by an immense effort that she
commanded herself.

You must judge for yourself. Only remember
that I have warned you.'

Without understanding why, Lawrence
began to feel that the atmosphere was overcharged
with dangerous forces, and that
something must be done to break them up.

He supposed that he had been too eager, too
rough in his appeal.

 Oh, you have warned me,' he said with a
laugh, ' and I will try to be grateful ; but you
must remember that it was help I wanted.
There is Nelly signalling. If you will excuse
me, I am going round by a farm on some
business for my father.'

It was a relief to her that he went ; she
would have been glad if by any means she
could have shaken off Nelly's uncongenial
companionship, and been left to rearrange
her rudely scattered thoughts. The two girls
exchanged brief remarks ; the hill had never
seemed to Lucy so steep, or the country so
dreary. She longed to be alone, yet when she
went into the house, instead of going upstairs
she made her way at once into the study,
where Mrs. Lawrence was wading through
certain parish accounts. She recognised
Lucy's step.

 Come in, my dear, come in,' she said,
without looking np ; ' have you had a nice
row ? It has been a beautiful afternoon.'

Lucy did not give her usual smiling
answer, she walked into the room, and sank
heavily into a chair.

Mr. Lawrence has been speaking to me,'
she began abruptly, and Mrs. Lawrence lifted
her head eagerly. But one glance was
enough.

Speaking ? ' she repeated.

About Norma. He wishes to marry her.'

The mother's first impulse of anger was
not against the object of her son's love, but
against his silence towards her, while he confided
in another.

He has not said so,' she answered coldly.
But Lucy was too much excited to take
note of shades of expression ; she went on
quickly 

He saw her when she was at Ever mouth.

It is a miserable thing for him, because it
can never be. Norma has told him so.'

Why ? ' Mrs. Lawrence desired nothing
less than this marriage, but she also required
that all the obstacles should proceed from her
side.

I cannot tell you why,' said the girl
feverishly ; ' you must believe that I know.
And yet he is ready to waste all his life I '

The older woman looked at her. This was
the girl who she longed should be her son's
wife, and yet she had never felt so little in
sympathy with her as at this moment. Lucy
was so desperate that she did not care to hide
the smart, but Mrs. Lawrence found it hard to
forgive a failure in self-respect. She pressed
her lips together and the lines on her forehead
became more accentuated.

George,' she said, ' will no doubt speak tous,
if it is as you imagine ; and when I have
heard what he has to say, I shall be better

able to judge. Aise not you a little over-tired,
my dear ? '

But the girl took no heed.

'Norma will not marry him,' she repeated.

I have no desire to see her his wife,' said
Mrs. Lawrence stiffly.

But what will you do ? ' Lucy leaned
forward and looked eagerly at her, and Mrs.
Lawrence drew herself up.

'Do? What should I do? I don't
understand.'

Something in her tone forced itself into
Lucy's preoccupied brain. She got heavily up
with a poor attempt at a laugh.

Xo, of course not ; of course I am talking
nonsense ; only  from being Xorma's sister,
and  from having been here so long, I feel  an
interest. Please forgive me, dear Mrs. Lawrence.'


Forgive you, my dear ! ' said the other,
MssinET her. ' You must not take things to

heart so much. Perhaps George will think
better of his unfortunate infatuation, though
he is, like his father, very obstinate. I am
sure you are tired. You have not got back
your roses.'

I have been a troublesome visitor, and
you will be glad to get rid of me,' Lucy said
languidly. ' I have fixed Thursday, if that
will suit you ? '

The day after tomorrow ! ' Mrs. Lawrence
was not only sorry but secretly pained.
It shocked her to read so clearly the signs of
Lucy's discomfiture, which to her thinking
should have been hidden from all the world.
She was ashamed to reflect that George might
have read them too, and it was particularly
with this fear that she urged the girl to stay,
if only a few days longer.

But Lucy's was not a sensitive soul. She
really cared very little whether her secret
was manifest to Mrs. Lawrence or not, and all

the world might have known it if the knowing
could in any way rally her flying hopes. She
was at the same time profoundly discouraged.
Lawrence's state of feeling had been shown too
unmistakably to allow of self-deception ; more
than his words, his tone, his looks had told
his love for Xorma. Perhaps, in old days,
her vanity, which was capable of enduring
a heavy strain, would have extracted some
comfort out of the interview, and it was, at
least, certain that she would have conducted
their talk more skilfully, and have landed
herself in a better position at the end. But
now that her heart had taken part in the
conflict she was at a disadvantage, unable to
bring her forces to bear, swayed by strange
and unexpected gusts, saying things which she
would have given the world to have left unsaid,
trembler when she should have been strong,
jealous when she should have been cool. Then,
though she cared nothing for her secret, she

was frightened at this resolve to find out
who  what  stood between them, and she
thought she should die if he succeeded, and
faced her with the knowledge. In fact she
only kept lier head sufficiently to know that
there was no use in her staying where he was
at present.

She was, therefore, keenly desirous to begone.
It was true that she had not regained
her health, and she laid some of her sensations
on the soft and yielding air. If she were at
a distance, she could make her plans with a
cooler head, and see whether it were possible
in any degree to retrieve her position, or
whether she could only act as a separating
force. No alternative line of action presented
itself.

She told Mrs. Lawrence that her plans
were fixed, though in truth they were simply
dependent upon her own will, and had
scarcely taken definite shape. She had given

up all thought of remaining in Devonshire,
from a vauue consciousness that if she were
within reach of Lawrence and yet he did not
come to see her, the pain would be less
endurable than if there were a solid reason, in
the form of distance, to account for his nonappearance.
Lucy still found it impossible
to face the truth ; although a new keenness of
vision had flashed upon her, she wanted to
dress it up, to disguise its harsh aspect with
pleasant pretences. Lore than this, in the
midst of real suffering her pleasure-loving
nature was looking round for something
which might serve as compensation  at any
rate, in some degree restore the balance. She
caught at the sense of power, and felt triumph
in the knowledge that it was she who stood
between Lawrence and Xorma ; she might
count for nothing to him, but if that was
scarcely conceivable, it was unquestionable
that he was absolutely at her mercy. He was

causing her a suffering which had struck her
unawares, but he was suffering himself, and
she passionately protested that this was but
justice.

Yet  there were other cries within her.
She had allowed her conscience to become onesided,
but it was sufficiently alive to prove
uneasy, and the outward observances to which
she had been faithful had the effect of keeping
a divine standard before her eyes. She could
not ignore it. She could resolve to separate
these two ; she would never be able to do it
with a light heart. Already a certain look
which she had seen in Lawrence's eyes,
haunted her, and love had opened lier eyes
to what it meant.

Then she took up her burden of life again,
Saying only * It might have been ! '  Whittier.

iTjHEX Xorma came back to her home,
Miss Elhson's shrewd observation
was conscious of a change. Of late
she had been restless, and often absent-minded.
She never chose to appear unoccupied, but
her friend had more than once noticed that
her work fell upon her lap, or her book remained
open at the same page, while her
thoughts were evidently far from book or
work. She had been restless also, and soon
wearied of one occupation ; it had seemed as if
some restraining curb had been removed.
VOL. in. N

But, if this were so, it was now clear that
it was back again. There was something,
indeed, almost pathetic to the watcher in the
intensity with which Norma flung herself into
small and trivial things. Whatever had to be
done was done to the uttermost, for she spared
neither toil nor time. No more day-dreams 
not so much as a pause into which they might
steal. She taught Agnes German, working
hard at it herself between whiles. Either
Janet Somerville or Miss Ellison were always
with her. ' She is driving away thought and
regrets, because she knows that if she gave
way to them they would paralyze her,' commented
Miss Ellison sorrowfully. ' The question
is if they won't revenge themselves one of
these days, the harpies ! ' But Miss Ellison, if
she guessed, knew nothing. She had heard of
Mr. Lawrence's visit, she could not tell whether
he had succeeded afterwards in his quest ; if he
had, it was pretty plain that nothing good had

come of it. Xorma had shown by one or two
significant silences that she had nothing to tell
even her dearest friend, and Miss Elhson,
though she was dying to know, held her peace
like a wise woman.

Lucy was in London, her old governess
with her, and she said she liked the life ; at any
rate, her health appeared to be re-established.
Norma had seen her once or twice, but not
alone ; she had always taken Isabel or Janet
Somerville with her. And though her heart
hungered for news of Lawrence, she never
allowed herself to ask.

Suddenly one day there came a letter.
When she saw whose it was, her heart beat
violently, and the room swam ; only by a violent
effort could she regain her self-control.
And then a tempest seized her. She was sure
that she ought not to read it, but all the time
her fingers were stealing into the envelope,
softly drawing it out  the next moment she

X 2

was kissing it with the pent-up passion of her
heart. At first she did not attempt to read it,
the mere fact of having it there was sweet
enough. It was full of the promise of joy, and
she let her eyes fall, now here, now there, upon
different words, unconnected, but his. Then
the pang seized her again ; she began to feel
that she was failing in her renunciation, and
the fear troubled her conscience, though she
did not feel that she could refrain from reading.
It was too short, but one sheet, and in his bold
and strong handwriting, too soon read ; and
yet, as her woman's heart drank in the words,
she would not have had them other than they
were; they seemed to fill up, and satisfy the
aching void of months. ' Why should I not
write ? ' he said. ' Even if you toss me into the
fire, I am no worse off; better, indeed, for the
very fact of writing seems to break that
horrible blank silence in which I have existed
how many ages ? Unless you are the

cruellest woman that ever lived, you will let
me now and then  only now and then  send
you a word.' He went on to tell her that his
father had had a very long and serious attack
of rheumatic fever, from which he was only
now slowly recovering ; and it had been impossible
for this son to leave the rectory. ' All
this time,' he added, 'I have Heed in miserable
suspense, unable to attempt anything towards
solving the enigma you left with me. But I
shall do it yet unless the mud and the moisture
get the upper hand completely. Norma, isn't
it time to tell me I may come ? '

When she had read this letter she cried a
oood deal, and kissed it again and aiain. She
was angry with him that he should think she
could be so heartless as to toss it into the fire,
and she was angry with herself for her hardness
in not answering it. If only she could
have sat down and poured out her soul to him,
said no more than ' Dear, I love you,' over andover

again ! But to be stirred to the heart by
such an appeal, to feel all her nerves tingling
with the exquisite delight of it. and to have
not a word to utter in return  this was too
cruel, too dreary ! this made her feel as if she
must herself be to blame, as if the insupportable
state of things should never have been
permitted to exist.

But the letter gave her joy, and at the end
of a fortnight another came to her. Lawrence
said that his father was sufficiently recovered
for him to be able to leave him, and that he
should soon find himself in London. It implied
that he had his reasons for going there, and he
asked again whether she would not let him see
her. ' Don't be uneasy, however,' he said ;
don't fear that I am going to persecute you
you see I haven't forgotten your word. I
have your promise, and you are not the
woman to fail one.'

After receiving this letter, Norma pondered

on it for a day, and then wrote to Lucy.
Since their interview at the rectory, George
Lawrence had not once been mentioned between
them, and it cost Xorma not a little to
be the one to break the silence. But she felt
that if she kept his letters from Lucy's knowledge,
she would be acting deceitfully  at any
rate, not with perfect frankness. She could
not bring herself to use many words, she
merely said, ' I wish you to know that Mr.
Lawrence has written twice lately,' and there
was an end of it. Lucy wrote back an affectionate
letter, at the close of which she said,
Thank you for telling me about Mr. Lawrence,'
and no more.

Perhaps Xorma had expected, had hoped
for something more, for touches of the old restlessness
came back. She could not tell how
to act. These letters of Lawrence's, delicious
as they were, kept the pain always fresh, and
she knew that she was always expecting or

dwelling upon them. Yet to write to him
meant to open the gate which she felt required
all her strength to keep shut ; were it only a
few words it was certain he would make it
count for a great deal, a great deal which she
had no right to offer. Nothing was so blighting,
so chilling, as silence  nothing cost her
so much, and therefore to poor Norma it
seemed right. She would give him no answer,
and perhaps his letters would die away; if
they showed no sign of this, she must ask
Miss Ellison to write and desire him to stop
them.

Meanwhile he would be in London and
would see Lucy.

Miss Ellison came in one late February
afternoon, and found Janet playing reversi with
Agnes, who had a cold. So had Norma, and
Miss Ellison exclaimed at her imprudence
when she found that she had not come in.

It is much too cold for her,' she said ;

the wind has gone towards the north, and I
believe we shall be having more snow.'

Is it really north P I thought this after -
noon was so pleasant,' said the girl.

Oh, it is north, depend upon it ! I have
reached the aire when one becomes a connoisseur
in winds. I shall soon dispute his empire
with old General Lee, who has ruled you all
so loaf?. But I wish Xorma would not be so
imprudent.' She walked to the window and
looked out. A grey sea heaved sullenly before
her, few ships were to be seen, but far
out a steamer was moving slowly, her wake
contracted into one sharp spot of white. As
she looked, Norma crossed the road, opened
the little gate and came into the garden.
Mss Ellison was sure she was both tired and
pale, and when she had reached the room in
which they were, she was more impressed by
her looks. Agnes ran to kiss her, and she
brightened when she saw her friends.

I had a hope I might find you here,
otherwise I think I should have gone to your
house.'

Oh, you are imprudent enough for anything
! Do you want to kill yourself? You
look like a ghost,' said Miss Elhson severely.

Mrs. Winyeatt smiled, and let her heavy
fur-bordered coat drop from her.

Don't be tragic, Mary,' she said ; ' I want
nothing but my tea, and to keep you to
dinner.'

I ought not to stay. I ought to spend
this evening in writing letters. I am dreadfully
behindhand ; there were dozens of things
to be done before March, but the fact is that
February is such a shabby little month, there
is no turning round in it. However, I forgive
it ; indeed, I always feel grateful to my ancestors.'


'Why?' asked Janet.

'Why? For their though fulness, to be

sure. Have you ever reflected what it would
have been if they had equalled matters by
making May or June the shortest month in
the year ? Now, on the whole, one is glad to
have done with February, and even Janet,
who likes everything, and has something
good to say for the best-abused men and
matters '

I am sure I am not half so kind ! '

'Ah, well, perhaps we are robbing you of
some of your innocent appreciation  but I
heard even Janet whispering to Xorma that
she wished March were come.'

But  oh, that was '  blushing furiously
' that was  because '

Xever mind what it was,' said Mrs. Win-yeast,
advancing to the rescue. ' Mary has
nothing to do with your whispers to me, my
Janet. Has nobody ordered tea ? I am longing
to shut out that grey sky, and to settle
down for a comfortable evening, and poor

Agnes is pining to go on with lier game. I
hope you have thanked Janet for being so
kind as to play, Agnes ? '

 Oh, she likes it ! ' said the little girl
calmly, arranging the counters.

Yes, she likes it, of course  it's astonishing
how many things she likes to do for us all,'
said Miss Ellison, nodding kindly at the girl
as she came and stood by the table. ' Did
you see the regiments march down to the
pier, this afternoon, to receive the Grand
Duke ? '

Isabel saw it. Papa took Isabel, and
they had capital places. Isabel came afterwards
to tell me about it. Ah, here is the
tea ! '  jumping up. ' Xow, dear Mrs. Win-yeast,
you are to sit still, and let me pour it
out. I won't forget about the water for the
second cups, I promise you. I do think I am
improving in my tea-making.'

Janet,' said Mrs. Winyeatt suddenly, ' I

have something to tell you which you will
Very much like to hear. I was calling at the
Warrington, and Colonel Clarke happened to
be there, and I asked him what he thought of
Mr. Eose  as an officer, you understand,' she
hastened to add, with a smile. ' He thinks
very well indeed of him. He says he is clever
and sound-headed  sound-headed, that was
the word, for it struck me  and sure to get
on in his profession. He really spoke very
warmly. It would have made you feel immensely
proud. And I told him how glad I
was, and that I was very much interested in
Mr. Eose's career. I think if he can ever do
him a good turn, he will.'

'Oh, Mrs. Winyeatt, how kind, how dear
of you I Colonel Clarke is the person he
thinks so much about ! Oh, it will be delightful
to write this to him, and to tell papa and
everyone I Papa is so afraid we should be
too sanguine, he is always telling me that the

army is the worst profession in the world, and
that Arthur will be an old man before he has
any chance of distinguishing himself. But
people do get on, you know,' added Janet
thoughtfully, dropping two lumps of sugar
into the tea-pot. ' And though papa thinks
he is too shy, yet  he isn't shy when you
know him, is he? It is only just at first. 1
never found it out. Oh, Miss Ellison, what
have I been doing ! '

Never mind, my dear. I have extracted
the sugar from the tea-pot. Xorma lead no
business to introduce such absorbing topics
when you had other things to do.'

Oh, it was too good of her ! '

Well, then. Norma, have you nothing
else for any of us ? Haven't you something
nice in your budget for me or for
Agnes ? '

Not for you.'

Then Agnes. Agnes, bring me some

bread and butter, and find out what your
mother lias still to reveal.'

To tell the truth, there is something.'

Oh,' cried Agnes rapturously, ' what ? '

'I had a letter from Aunt Bessie to-day,
and she wants us both to go and see her.
Would you like it ? '

Oh ! ' There was no doubt what the oh !
meant.

You would ? So I thought, and I believe
we had better go.'

When, when, when P Would Miss Fox
go? Should I have a holiday? Is Madge
nice ? '  hugging her mother.

I really think it would be the best thing
for you,' said Miss Ellison, looking at her
friend's palace. ' It will be cold, but you don't
mind cold ; and now that Lucy has set up for
herself, you are free to take an occasional run.
Why don't you spend a few days with Lucy as
you pass through London ? '

'Oh, no!' said Norma hastily. 'No, I
should go direct to Scotland.'

Isabel heard from Lucy this morning,'
remarked Janet. ' She has had neuralgia.
She doesn't seem quite so strong as she used
to be ; I don't think she has quite recovered
that sad shock at the Lawrencess.'

I don't know about shocks,' said the unfair
Miss Ellison, ' but I dare say Lucy fretted
herself ill about something.'

Then Scotland came up again, and provided
ample materials for conversation, for
Janet  with a few intervals of dreaming over
Colonel Clarke's prophecies, which she supplemented
and enlarged upon in her own hopeful
mind, until their author would have failed
to recognise his own utterances  Janet was
very much interested in little Lady Drummond,
and had almost as many questions as Agnes to
ask about them all, and Miss Ellison, who was
puzzled to know what had happened in the

autumn, and only sorrowfully aware that
things had gone wrong or come to a deadlock
or something, talked also with the hope of
finding out that Norma was really taking an
interest in this sudden move of hers.

Norma herself was conscious that she was
giving way to the impulse of flight. She was
afraid that Lawrence, if lie did not actually
break his promise, would find some means of
evading its strict bonds. He would be so near
her in London ! He would not come to the
house, but she might meet him in the streets
or at her friends', never would she feel rid of
the haunting possibility ; more than that, she
knew that all the time this would be her
yearning hope.

It did not seem to her that she could bear
either the seeing or the not seeing him.

She was ashamed of her weakness, but she
made no attempt to disguise it from herself,
and when Bessie's invitation came she felt that

VOL. III.

it opened a way out of some of lier difficulties,
and would not allow herself to hesitate about
accepting it.

So the next day's post carried a letter to
Lady Drummond, saying that in a few days
she and Agnes would be with her ; and though
Miss Ellison cried out at. the shortness of the
time allowed for preparations, Norma was
glad to have all her hours so occupied that
she could keep invading thoughts at bay.
She was fairly successful, and she flattered
herself that once in a place into which no possible
associations could creep, a home full of
healthful and vigorous interests, she would
gain the mastery over what she had to own
was now sometimes apt to master her.

Only one outside thing troubled her.
Polly Medland had benefited wonderfully at
the Home ; it was even thought that she might
leave it, but as a dry climate was pronounced
necessary, Mrs. Winyeatt had arranged to take

her. In this dilemma Miss Ellison came to
the rescue, promising to fetch the girl and
take her to her house. So that everything
seemed provided for, and Xorma wrote to her
sister to tell her that she was almost on the
winix.

She wrote also to Lucy. Her sense of
honour was perhaps overstrained, for she
could not endure that Lucy should accuse her
of concealment of plan. And, moreover, she
believed that Lawrence was in London, and
she wished if she were to see Lucy that the
proposal should come from her sister-in-law,
though she could not but doubt whether,
under these circumstances, it would come at
all. And she was right, for it did not. Lucy
answered expressing much delight that she
had made up her mind to such a pleasant
change, wrote a very charming and amusing
letter, and said nothing about seeing her on
her way.



So Norma, Agnes, and Chambers started,
and made their first halting-place at York,
going on the next day to Edinburgh. After
that they had still a long journey, for Craig-muir
was north of Blair Athol, but Mrs.
Winyeatt, who had expected cold, was surprised
at the moderate and open weather. Sofar,
indeed, the winter in Scotland had been
singularly mild, and though the country
looked bare there was a beautiful brown colouring
spread over it, sombre but rich, and
more attractive than the greens and yellows
of summer. Norma breathed more freely as
the train flew north. Bessie was, after all, her
own sister ; she was glad to go to her ; glad to
leave behind her, as she hoped, much that
was perplexing and dreary ; glad to be freed
from some fears.

Or so she imagined.

CHAPTER XXIX.

When she-would think-where'er she turned her sight,

The airy hand confusion wrought,
Wrote * Mene, mene,' and divided quite

The kingdom of her thought.  Texxtso:.

lawrence arrived in London on a
day of unrelieved gloom, cold, with
a sleety rain falling, and the only
gleams of brightness those which came from
wet roofs, wet Waterproof or shiny tarpaulins.
He himself looked thinner and less
cheery than of old. The winter had been
long and trying. The rector's illness had been
not only serious but full of suffering, and he
could not patiently endure the long confinement,

so greatly opposed to his usual active
habits. Then he became low-spirited, dwelling
much upon his brother-in-law's death, and
holding his own carelessness accountable for
it. Mrs. Lawrence was at her \vits' end,
Nelly was quite unused to illness, and the
greater part of the nursing and cheering fell
upon George. It was impossible for him to
leave the rectory, and he thought bitterly of
the futility of his determination to get to the
root of this thing which stood between him
and Norma. He had wearied himself with
guesses. From his mother he met with no
help. The two letters he had written had
been a relief  nothing more. Now he had
come to London with a desperate determination
to be no longer baffled.

Ever since that day by the river-side his
thoughts of Lucy had been less assured, less
friendly than before ; for he could not be
unconscious that she was trying to shake his

determination to win his love ; and if, ashe
sometimes told himself, this was only because
she knew how little chance there was
of his succeeding, there had yet been something
unusual in her words and manner, something
which was certainly not sympathy
with his disappointment. But he still clung
to the belief that it was from Lucy he should
get his clue, and he lost no time in going to
her.

Lucy was not unprepared, for she had
heard of his expected coming from Mrs.
Lawrence, who frequently wrote. It was true
that the mother had been both startled and
displeased by the girl's loss of self-control, but
she was really fond of her ; and, after all, were
there not excuses to be made for a motherless
girl, not very happy in her home ? During
the rector's illness she had often wished for
someone more capable than Xelly ; she saw
the worried lines on her son's face, and felt

that things were wrong, and that she could
clearly tell how they might be straightened
again ; therefore, it was with the best wishes
in the world that she packed a hamper of
country produce, vegetables and flowers,
butter and cream, and despatched it by
George, with strict injunctions to deliver it to
Lucy no later than the next day.

The girl had passed a restless and unhappy
winter.

That inconvenient conscience of hers, to
which on certain points she attended, had,
therefore, sufficient vitality to raise its head
and protest on those other points in which
she did her best to smother it. If it did
nothing else, it succeeded in making her
uncomfortable.

Yet, after all, she reflected, fortune had
been on her side. The rector's illness had
stopped Lawrence in his researches ; time, she
might hope, had perhaps in some measure

effaced Norma's image, and her vanity was
beginning to paint charming possibilities when
she heard of his letters. Closely upon this
came the warning of his coming, and of
Norma's journey to Scotland.

She could not but own that Norma had
behaved with all the loyalty which she had
expected from her, and her winter with her
old governess had taught her something of
her charms as a companion. She sometimes
wondered why Norma had yielded to her, and
explained it by two reasons ; one, that her
sister-in-law's love was not strong enough to
make the renunciation actual suffering, and
the other, that in old days Norma had behaved
ill to Paul, and. felt compensation due to her 
Paul's sister.

But now he was coming, he was coming !
What preparations she made ! How carefully
she planned Miss Sullivan's absence ! How
eagerly she rehearsed all she would say ! The

false step she had made that afternoon by the
river should not be repeated, he should turn
to her for friendship and for sympathy again.
All her pretty things were so cleverly disposed,
her tulips and hyacinths were so bright
that her room looked a nest of colour ; all
that was wanted was the sun, and lo ! out
came the sun as if in answer. When Lawrence
appeared he exclaimed at the prettiness
of it all, and felt again the old contrast
between Lucy, neat and well-dressed, and
Nelly's careless disregard for appearances.
The girl, too, had a soft deprecating air about
her which was new, and which touched him.
He began to think he had been dwelling on a
false impression.

How good of you to find me out so soon ! '
she exclaimed. 'I wanted so much to see
you, and to hear about this dreadful time you
have all had. Is dear Mr. Lawrence really
better? It must have been such a painful

illness, and I assure you my thoughts have
been constantly at the rectory.'

That was kind of you,' said Lawrence
cordially. ' Things are mending daily now,
or I couldn't have got away. I suspect my
father was more shaken by all that happened
when you were with us than we realised.
Then came a chill, and his usual imprudence,'
he added smiling, ' this time was not successful.
Are you well ? '

Quite,' said Lucy with a thrill.

And do you like London ? '

It has been better for me this winter.
It is warmer than Dover, but of course all
this '  looking about her  ' is not so pleasant.'


No,' Lawrence agreed ; ' it would not
be so pleasant.' He paused for a moment,
and then said abruptly  ' Miss Winyeatt, do
you remember our last conversation ? '

Yes,' she said frankly. ' And to tell you

the truth, I have often been sorry to remember,
because I don't think you were very well
pleased with it. I think you fancied that I
was well, a little chilling ? '

Weren't you ? ' he asked smiling.

Yes, I was  I certainly was. I don't
want to deny it. Only when one sees one's
friends taking a road which can only end in
disappointment, please, what is one to do?
Encourage them in it with enthusiasm ? '

She looked at him very appealingly as
she said this, and Lawrence instantly forgave
her.

I dare say that I was unjust, that I didn't
put myself in your place,' he owned. 'But
you must remember that I assured you that
nothing you or anyone else could say would
turn me from that road, and that all I asked
was not to be obliged to travel blindfold.'

Ah,' she said, ' but am I the person to
remove the bandage ? '

I believe you could,' said Lawrence
quietly.

Lucy darted a swift look at lira, but
nothing in his face hinted that this was a
charge.

If you hope that, you expect too much,'
she returned. ' / can never tell you, and I
am pretty sure you will never know. Xow
you will be angry with me again. Oh, why,
why can't we let this alone, and speak of something
else ! '

He was once more touched with what
seemed like a girlish dread of hurting him.
He leaned forward and spoke very kindly.

I should be a brute to be angry. Perhaps
you think I am a brute already to bother you
with my troubles directly we meet. I haven't
much to say in excuse, except that it all means
such a lot to me. H you knew what a dreary
winter this has been ! And a little hope would
have made all the difference. If it had been

only waiting  waiting ever so many years 
some limit given  anything but this dreary
black curtain let down between us. And if it
exists,' he went on more vehemently, 'if it
has a right to exist, which, mind you, I don't
believe, why am I to be shut out of sight of
her for ever ? What's to prevent my, at least,
seeing and hearing her, like any other man ? '

Lucy was staring at him startled. 'Oh,
no ! ' she exclaimed.

Oh, no ? Why oh, no ? What is there
against it ? '

She recovered herself.

I only meant that I was sure Norma would
not consent.'

You are as hard as she is,' he said gloomily.
No  forgive me, I have no right to blame you
for my misfortunes.'

But some expression in his eyes, some
troubled lines about his firm mouth, moved
inconsistent Lucy to a sudden poignant pity.

She had never pitied Xorma, because she judged
her by herself, but Lawrence she had ideahsed,
and it was not so impossible for her to realise
that he was suffering. And yet with the pity
there mingled a strange satisfaction. It was
she who held the cords in her hand, she who
was influencing his life. She felt as if this
possession were a sort of compensation for
what she could not get. Presently he went
on 

Where is she now ? '

She is on her way to Scotland.' Lucy
did not think it necessary to mention that she
had passed through London that day.

To Scotland ! Why ? '

To stay with her sister. Don't you remember
that Bessie Drummond lives in Scotland ? '

Yes, I remember. By the way,' hopefully,
I wonder whether she could throw a light on
this business ? '

Xo,' said Lucy quickly ; ' I am sure she

cannot.' Then fearing lest she might again
alienate him, she added, ' But you might
try.'

Yes, of course I might. I was a fool not
to have thought of her before,' he said with
rising spirits. ' I might run down and see
her.'

Lucy shook her head.

You will do no good if you follow Norma.'

He got up impatiently, and stood with his
back to the fire.

Something meets one whichever way one
turns,' he said. ' However, I suppose you are
right. I must wait. But I'll be down there
before Norma has been a day at home.'

She winced. She had never heard the
name slip from him before.

Then if I'm to be barred from Scotland, I
shall go to Dover, and see Miss ElHson.
What ! wrong again ? '

Oh, no,' said Lucy, a little sullenly. ' Do

as you like, of course. Only if you come tome
for advice, you mustn't be vexed when it
does not always agree with your own opinions.'

You are right,' said Lawrence with an
effort, ' but  forgive me  you don't offer meany
advice which is not negative.'

She paused for a moment  it was indeed
hard for her to speak.

Ah,' she said in a low voice, ' you wouldn't
like my advice.'

Try.'

'If Norma will not marry you, would it
not be wise to  give her up ? '

Tell me why she will not marry me,' said
Lawrence, fixing his eyes keenly upon her,
and I will give you an answer.'

Lucy allowed him to fancy that there was
a certain hesitation in hier answer.

Why do women generally refuse to marry ? '

Because they don't care enough about the
man who asks them,' he said, with a confident

VOL. III. P

lauffh. The next moment his face changed 
 You don't think it's that ? '

Perhaps her love is not  very deep.'

He looked at her.

Yes, it is,' he asserted slowly. ' As deep
and as true as her heart. Whatever failure
there comes in this it will not be in her truth.
If that is all you have to suggest. Miss Win-yeast,
you can't know the actual reason one
bit better than I do myself

Oh yes, I do ! ' she cried, piqued.

Perhaps you could remove it ? '

Lawrence was appalled at the effect of his
words, for Lucy turned pale and the tears
rushed into her eyes. He had spoken on the
impulse of the moment, and without real suspicion,
and he hastened to smooth his speech
away by all the kind things he could think of.
Lucv at last permitted herself to be soothed,
and to smile at her own susceptibility. To
turn the subject, she spoke of the rectory,

the village, and Toby, and Lawrence soon
rose to go.

I shall see you acfain ? ' asked the girl.

'When I come back from Dover.'

'Don't take it for granted that all which
Miss Elhson guesses is the right explanation,'
she said hastily.

I shall be thankful for even a guess,'
Lawrence had answered, and then he was gone,
and Lucy's maid came to the door with a
bundle of Lent lilies which had been unpacked
from Mrs. Lawrence's hamper. Lucy told her
to put them in water, while she herself ran upto
her bedroom, flung herself on the sofa, turned
her face to the pillow, and cried bitterly.

Lawrence carried out his determination
the next day. He telegraphed to Miss Elhson,
had her answer, and went down, in spite of a
violent storm of wind and snow. His spirits
had somewhat risen after his visit to Lucy,
for that suggestion of hers was so far from

what he knew to be the truth, that he began
to doubt whether she really knew anything
about the bar which she pronounced to be
hopeless. Moreover, he was a good deal
puzzled by her emotion at the remark he had
hazarded without thinking much of his words,
and in his wonder his thoughts wandered near
the truth, although they never actually fastened
upon it. He began to think that it was
not impossible that Norma, in some rush of
self-abnegation, had promised not to marry,
but to keep a home for Paul's sister.

Miss Ellison's greeting was very hearty.
She had long been dying to know what had
put an end to all the hopes and fears which
had sprung up during those summer weeks.
Norma had confided in her for a time, then
had drawn back into an impenetrable silence.
She had suffered, of that her friend was
sure, but it had seemed the kindest thing,
since it was so unquestionably her wish, to

leave her alone. But here was Lawrence
offering himself up for a prey, and she would
have been less than woman not to jump at
him ; and if she did not know beforehand how
to greet him, whether he would appear as sad,
sorry, or triumphant, the man who was ready
to marry Lucy, or the man who was faithful
to Norma, or the man who had forsaken
both  the moment she saw him she forgot all
about her doubts, and was ready to swear
to his honesty. He looked into her eyes as
they shook hands, and saw there what made
him speak at once.

I have come to ask your help.'

Happy Bliss Ellison !

You shall have all that I can give you,'
she said smiling.

And then she made him draw his chair
near the fire, and shut out the turbulent snow,
which was filling the air with mad gambols,
and to make it more easy for him, asked him

whether he knew that Mrs. Winyeatt was in
Scotland ?

Yes, it appeared that he knew this, and
that it had been told him by Miss Winyeatt.

By Lucy ? ffiss ElHson's suspicions began
to revive, but she clung bravely to her confidence
in his face.

I am afraid,' she went on, ' that they may
have a cold journey, although it was so fine
when they started yesterday.'

Yesterday ! ' he exclaimed. ' Only yesterday
! '

Yesterday only. Did not Lucy tell you ? '

It struck him also as strange. It might
have been a chance omission, but it looked
almost a if she had not cared to let him know
how near Xorma had been. This, however,
had nothing to do with the object of his visit.

Look here. Miss Ellison,' he said, ' I have
come on purpose to talk to you, and to see if
you can throw light upon a matter very near

to me. I came when I knew that Norma was
away  I may call her Norma, mayn't I ? '

Ah, may you ? '  with a smile.

Yes, to you. I couldn't have come when
she was here. Do you know why ? '

No, indeed.'

Do you know anything ? '

'On the whole I should say I didn't.
Since Norma came back from Devonshire she
has said nothing to me, and I have been
reduced to guessing, which is poor work when
one is a good deal interested. Did you see her
when she was there ? I fancied you were not
at home.'

I heard she had gone down, and I followed
her ; you may guess why. It was to ask her
to be my wife.'

And she refused ? '

And she refused.'

But  but then, what am I to do ? ' demanded
Miss Ellison breathlessly.

Help me to know why she refused. She
would have married me if it had only rested
with her own feelings. She let me have that
much consolation.'

That was a great deal from Norma,' said
the other gravely.

A great deal  Heaven bless her ! It's
what I have fed upon ever since. But it won't
last for ever. Miss Ellison, what is this something
which stands in the way ? '

Lucy, Lucy, that wretched Lucy ! ' was
what Miss Ellison was saying in her heart.
But she could not breathe it openly, she could
only fall back upon futile suggestions which
she knew to be so false that she was ashamed
to utter them. ' Perhaps she will not marry
again ? '

That is not the obstacle.'

Oh, I do so wish I could help you ! ' she
cried desperately. ' But I can't. I know
nothing, and if I guess at anything, my lips

are sealed ; only, if I were you, I would not
give up, I would go on ! '

His eyes kindled. 'You're the first to
say anything sensible. Of course I shall persist,
though Norma and Miss Winyeatt both
vow that it is useless.'

Lucy ! Does Lucy say so ? ' There was
hot indignation in her tone.

Yes, she does.' He leaned forward and
watched her. ' Miss Ellison, I have sometimes
wondered, though it doesn't seem possible,
whether Miss Winyeatt has anything to do
with it ? '

Miss Ellison was silent, but her face could
not help being expressive.

It struck me that Norma might have
made some promise, some agreement not to
marry while she required a home ? It's preposterous,
because if that were aU, she might
have fifty homes with us ; besides, I can't conceive
Miss Winyeatt having the barbarity to

hold her to it  no, it's absolutely preposterous ;
but then  so is the whole affair.'

His listener still remained obstinately
silent.

Well,' he said after waiting. ' You must
let me hear your opinion.'

I can't do that,' she said at last. ' I will
help you in every possible way, write to Norma,
scold her, anything ; but I don't mean to hint
at my own fancies, because I can't prove them.
Only, don't despair.'

He caught her hand and shook it warmly.
Thank you,' he said. ' Then will you write,
and point out that if anything of that sort,
anything relating to Miss Winyeatt, is at the
bottom of this detestable difficulty, it might
all be arranged with the greatest ease  that
Miss Winyeatt might stay with us for ever, if
that's all.'

Oh, good Heavens ! ' groaned Miss Ellison
mentally

Say anything, promise anything,' he went
on with great eagerness ; ' I know you have
immense influence with Norma. And  can't
I do something ? Can't I appeal to Miss Win-yeast
? '

 Oh, I don't know, I don't really know ! '
she cried, lifting her hands ; ' I never pretend
to understand Lucy.'

He pondered again. ' I think, though you
won't allow it in so many words, that you
believe she has something to do with the
complication.'

Yes, I do,' she said desperately. ' I suppose
it's a dreadful thing to say, but I do.'

'It can't do any harm,' he replied quite
innocently ; ' of course, it's all some foolish
cobweb, which might be swept away, if only
one was permitted to look at it. Though I
confess I always thought !Miss Winyeatt was
the one to befriend me until '

Until when ? '

Until a talk I had with her soon after I
had spoken to Norma. Then I fancied she
was not very keen. And again yesterday. I
suppose a woman's dislike to lose a home is
something we men can't fathom. Yet, it's
odd  she's out of it now,' he added with a
laugh.

Miss Ellison looked at him helplessly, with,
it must be owned, some contempt for man's
want of perception mingled with her king.
If he had guessed she would have hated
him, but she thought that in his place she
must quickly have arrived at the missing
reason.

After this they talked a great deal, but
she was on her guard, and would not be
betrayed into further imprudences, unless giving
Lawrence all the encouragement she could
think of came under that heading ; and she
was so hearty in her good wishes, so hopeful
in her prophecies, that her listener had not

felt so happy for many a long day. His
gratitude was proportionably great.

I shall never, never forget it I ' he exclaimed
when he thanked her for her kindness.
' I wasn't quite certain when I came
whether you would befriend me.'

Oh, yes,' she nodded ; ' I have always
been on your side. I think every man ought
to marry, and very few women ; but Xorma
is one of those who would be happier as a
wife.'

And it may be noticed that this remarkable
expression of opinion appeared so perfectly
satisfactory to her hearer that he agreed
to it without a demur.

When he left it was with the understanding
that Miss Ellison should write to Xorma,
mention his visit and his confidence, allude
frankly to her own ideas as to the real author
of the difficulty, and urge all the arguments
in her power. He was very desirous to be

allowed to go north himself, to see Lady
Drummond only, as he very carefully explained.
But his counsellor would not hear
of it.

Norma is not the woman to be persuaded
against her conscience,' she said emphatically.
And to tell you the truth, I don't expect my
own appeal will be of much service. But
perhaps I can speak with some knowledge,
and Bessie Drummond can't, and so you had
better leave me alone for the present.'

More waiting ! ' said Lawrence ruefully.
but I won't be ungrateful. You shall go
your own way.'

I will have my turn, at any rate,' she said
with a foretaste of satisfaction.

And what am I to do ? '

Study Lucy  no  no, I don't know 
keep away from her, I believe. I have told
you already that I don't pretend to understand
Lucy.'

This was not very helpful, but Lawrence's
spirits had been raised by the interview.
Miss Ellison insisted upon his seeing Polly
Medland before he left  Xorma's pet care, as
she called her; and, indeed, the change in the
girl was so great that it was difficult to believe
she was the same. It seemed she did not
wish to go back to Marlham, not even to see
Ida Coombes, and if her grandparents agreed,
Mrs. Winyeatt had promised to take her into
her own house for training.

When he was back in London, Lawrence
determined not to go to ]bliss Winyeatt until
he had heard from bliss Ellison. Neither of
his last talks with her had been satisfactory ;
indeed, now, more than ever, he had to allow
that she had shown herself decidedly adverse,
and he felt a good deal of anger at the idea
that here, after aU, lay the root of their
troubles. If she had not professed friendship!
K she had not given her advice under the

cloak of goodwill ! But this lie could not
forgive.

He waited, therefore, with impatience, and
he had to wait longer than would otherwise
have been the case, because of some accident
and delay to a mail train. It was a week and
a day after Norma had started, and within a
fortnight of the time she had fixed for her
return, when he received his letter from Miss
Ellison. She wrote with evident disappointment.
Norma, she said, had told her nothing,
would tell her nothing, had only reiterated
her words to Lawrence, that it was impossible,
and that she could sive no reason. It was
best for him to forget her  it would be cruel
in him to attempt even indirectly to see her.
I don't agree with her about the forgetting,'
said Miss Elhson, ' but I suppose you must not
try to get sight of her yet, so don't go to
Scotland till she comes back. Don't despair,
don't give up, don't be cross. You see, like



other advisers, my counsel chiefly consists of
what you are not to do. Never mind. Some
day it will be the turn of the Do's  (I don't
know how to spell it). Good-bye.'

VOL. III.

Q

Let Love but once gain footing within, and even Vanity
may have to fly out of the window.

jHAT do you think of Norma,
Eobert ? ' demanded Lady Drummond
on the nio-ht of her sister's
arrival.

That she's just handsomer than ever, and
that it's a thousand pities she's never married
again.'

Well, I don't know. She's got Agnes,
and a comfortable fortune ; and if Lucy
Winyeatt continues to take herself off, I
think she might do very well. As our children
grow up, of course they can go and stay

with her. She can then always have cheerful
society.'

Chatter and row enough ! '

You know, Eobert, that you are always
miserable unless they are chattering, as you
call it. You encourage them in every tomboy
trick. Miss Anderson says that when
you are near it is hopeless for her to attempt
to keep them in order.'

Confound Miss Anderson,' growled Sir
Eobert sleepily.

However, I would rather there was too
much spirit than too little,' Lady Drummond
pursued unheeding. ' Yes, Xorma is splendidly
beautiful. I see a strong likeness in Madge
to her aunt.'

In Madge ! In Madge, with her little
snub nose ! '

You are always saying something against
Madge's nose,' protested his wife in a vexed
tone. ' You might be more civil to it, when

Q 2

you reflect that it comes from your side of
the house. We never had anything like it.'

To this Sir Eobert muttered something
incoherent, and the conversation dropped.

Though a boisterous March is not the
most inviting weather for Scotland, Scotch
hospitality is indifferent to seasons, and Craig-muir
generally had its guests and its coming
and going. Now there were a Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Tyrrel, a Miss Mainwaring and a
young Jack Drummond, in the Foreign Office,
a cousin of Sir Eobert's. They were all, in
their way, pleasant people, they all liked
Norma, and Jack Drummond promptly
tumbled head over ears in love with her. If
she could have got rid of those haunting
longinus, which Lawrence's letters and the
knowledge of his being in London had made
more persistent and less shadowy. Norma
would have enjoyed her life ; as it was, she
was ilad to have come, glad to see Bessie in

her home life, with husband and children,
sensible, useful ; glad that Agnes should be so
frankly and unreservedly happy.

Bessie herself was delighted to have her
sister, the more so as she always considered
that Xorma stood in need of practical advice
on many points, and was convinced that it
was her mission to instil it. She was proud
of her, too  proud of her extreme beauty and
charm ; she was even proud of Jack Drummond's
half-comical infatuation, although she
scoffed at him to his face for its foolishness.
But because he was too young, there was no
reason why someone of maturer age should
not be provided, and she had a dinner-party,
and flattered herself that she had got together
exactly the right people. But though, as
usual, one or two were attracted by the beautiful
]airs. Winyeatt, it was provokingly evident
that she, on her part, felt only the profoundest
unconcern, and when Bessie overheard her

making some laughing allusion to her age, she
felt that it was time for her to speak. The
next morning, when Lady Drummond was
answering notes in her own room, came Norma
and the opportunity.

'You must let me in, Bessie, however busy
you are. The Tyrrel have gone out by
themselves on an expedition to the Glen, and
Miss Mainwaring and Mr. Drummond are
riding with Sir Eobert ; and the young people
all being provided for, I betook myself to you.'

Here was Lady Drummond's opportunity.

The young people ? My dear, we are all
young.'

'I know. All but me. Lm the eldest,
and I feel like a grandmother.'

'I wanted to speak to you about that.
You're thirty-three, an age at which a woman is
still quite young, and you talk as if you were
twenty years older. It really is too absurd ;
and, besides, it's not kind to Maud Mainwaring.'

What has she to do with it ? '

She's two years older, that's alL'

Nonsense, Bessie, I don't believe it. I
looked upon her as an infant.'

Because she doesn't talk perpetually
about her old age. It seems such a little
while ago that you were a mere girl at
Eome ! '

Xorma turned pale. ' Don't, Bessie,
don't ! ' she said in a low voice. Her sister
glanced at her curiously.

What a strange creature you are ! Do
you still reproach yourself so much ? It was
only that you were inexperienced, and, my
dear, a little giddy I '

 Xo, it was more,' said Xorma. ' flore
than once I had the fear, but I held it at
arm's length, I would not allow it to interfere
with my pleasure. I shut my eyes.'

Well, if you did,' Bessie replied, filing
bills as she spoke, ' if you did, I'm sure you

were sorry enough. It nearly killed you.
And you have saddled yourself all these years
with Paul's sister, which I should consider
a very sufficient penance. However, I hope
she will not any longer interfere with your
life.  Come in. Mrs. Magraith to see me ?
Tell Mrs. Magraith to wait.  As I was saying,
I hope that's at an end. She has taken herself
off, and you surely won't have her again.
Why doesn't she marry ? When I heard she
was with the Lawrencess, I fancied she had
an eye to Mr. Lawrence ; and certainly that
would have been curious. Norma, considering
how much he was mixed up with Paul and
all of us at that time. I suppose he really is
getting on ? '

He is thirty-seven,' Norma said quickly.

Is that all ? Oh, that would do very
well for Lucy ! But now, think about what I
have said,' went on Lady Drummond affectionately.
' Don't talk as if you were a

hundred, and when you see anyone you like,
don't make him and yourself miserable with
ridiculous scruples about marrying again.
Once I did think you were going to make a
Moloch out of Lucy. I hope that's over, but
I never feel sure that you mayn't set up another.
And you don't know what a comfort
it would be to me to see you really happy.'

When Bessie talked like that, her sister
always felt deeply grateful to her. She came
quickly now and kissed her, and though she
shook her head. Lady Drummond did not
choose to see it. She put her hands on
Norma's shoulders as she knelt by her side,
and exclaimed 

Eobert may say what he likes, but Madge
is, she certainly is going to be like you.'

'Oh, I hope so ! ' cried Norma eagerly. ' I
shall be so clad if she is ! '

And you won't mind her nose ? Her nose
is her weak point '  mournfully.

Her nose ! What is the matter with it ?
It always seems to me the dearest little
nose ! '

Now that is really dear of you, Norma !
It is Eobert's fault ; he makes such a fuss, he
is always talking about her nose. And it is
very unfair, because, as I invariably tell him,
it belongs unmistakably to his family  it is
exactly like his own sister's. However, I feel
pretty sure it will improve ; I see a distinct
difference already.'

To please Bessie, Norma made no more
allusions to her age, and submitted to one or
two alterations in her dress, though, as Lady
Drummond acknowledged, she had a style of
her own which suited her. She felt, indeed,
the influence of the cheery household in which
she found herself, and which seemed broader
and fresher than her own, moving, as she acknowledged,
on easier lines, whereas hers had
an inclination to fall into grooves. She thought

it good, too. for Agnes, whose nature might
easily be cramped, and Bessie's naughtier
children had something breezy and invigorating
in their natures which Norma recognised
as healthy, and looked at with a little envy.

'It's their father, my dear,' said Lady
Drummond in explanation. ' A man in the
house keeps things going, and saves one from
becoming morbid.'

And though the idea of a morbid Bessie
made her sister laugh, she could not but own
that there was truth in the remark.

Then came Miss Ellison's letter, which, if
it did not shake her determination, moved
her to the depths. How persistent he was,
how faithful ! What foolish dream possessed
Lucy to suppose that such a nature would
change and turn to her ! And whether it
were from Bessie's sturdy common sense, or the
air of vigour and hopefulness about the house,
certain it is that for the first time Norma permitted

hope to enter her own heart. It was
very sure that Lucy could not marry hmi by
force, and when she was convinced that he
had no thoughts of her, she would not wait
for ever, she would probably marry someone
else, and even her sister-in-law's scrupulousness
could not suppose that she would then
remain bound by her engagement. But until
this happened, or until Lucy gave other
release, she could do nothing.

Meanwhile Lucy in London was tossed and
racked by such conflicting emotions as she had
never felt before.

She longed for Lawrence's coming, yet
dreaded it. For two or three days she would
not leave the house lest she should miss him.
Then, as he did not appear, she made up her
mind that Miss Ellison  whom she feared 
had told him, perhaps all ; for it was not impossible
to her to conceive that Norma should
have repeated to her friend everything, even

her own unworthy part. And though she had
a hundred excellent reasons to present to herself
for all that she had done  for she was a
person who always required to stand well vith
herself  she could not, naturally, endure that
Lawrence should learn who had been standing

o

in his way, and why.

Long, then, as she might to see him, this
panic heightened as a week passed and yet he
did not come, and, instead of staying at home,
she was out from morning till night, hoping
that no ill chance might bring them together.
In this interval he did come  twice. Having
of the ill success of Miss Elhson's letter,
he determined upon once more appealing to
Lucy, and he felt that he should now speak
with greater strength. He, therefore, finding
she was not at home, wrote and asked
her when she could see him, and obliged her
half unwillingly, half eagerly  to fix a time.

She chose late in the afternoon, and there

was a very subdued light when he arrived, she
sitting with her back to the window, with the
hope of hiding her nervousness. He, as usual,
opened the subject at once.

I went to Dover, and I saw Miss Ellison,'
he said.

About Norma's decision ? And could she
throw any light ? Though I needn't ask, for
Miss Ellison has never been known to allow
that she was baffled. But, I beg your pardon.
Perhaps she knew.' Her voice was unsteady.

No,' said Lawrence gravely ; ' she did
not know.'

It was hard for Lucy to keep back a cry
of exultation. Here was one danger  the
worst  averted .

Is it possible ! ' she said smiling. He did
not smile.

She,' he went on, ' believes that you not
only know, but that you could remove the
difficulty.'

'I!'

It is difficult for me to credit, because I
can't conceive it possible that you would not
help us if you could. Still, there might be
some misunderstanding. something which may
strike you as serious, while if we talked it
over, it might be quickly set straight. I have
come here to-day to implore you to think of
this. I think by this time you know what
all this is to me.'

Lucy's voice was hard 

Because I know  and bliss Ellison doesn't
what prevents Xorma from marrying you,
vol  and Miss Ellison  have no right to go
further. I don't see why I am set upon.
Xorma has told you that it cannot be, and 
isn't that generally enough ? '

Pray don't treat it in that way,' he said
eagerly ; ' I don't claim any right, I only ask
you as a friend. What I have sometimes
fancied is whether you thought our marriage

might cost you a home ? It would only, I
hope, give you a brother.'

'You are arranging matters well in
advance, Mr. Lawrence,' said Lucy bitterly.
 Do not fear. When you and Norma marry, I
shall not inflict myself upon you.'

But why do you speak as if it were an infliction
? ' he remonstrated, and indeed he was
genuinely distressed. ' I know very well what
you and Norma have been to each other, and
it would be my most earnest wish that there
should be no difference.'

Are you going to marry ? ' she asked
tauntingly, but the next moment her face
altered and her voice softened. ' Oh,' she
cried, ' how changed you are, how different !
We used to be such good friends, and now we
never meet but you hurt me ! You can speak
of no one but Norma  we are all lost in her ! '

Something in this appeal, perhaps some
hidden chord of passion, moved George Lawrence

strangely. It was an accusation, and
one which seemed to come from her heart.
Yet what had he done to deserve it? It
appeared as if she were blaming him for
the very matter which he could have sworn
had drawn them together. Hurt her ! How
should this hurt her ?

You must forgive me,' he said slowly and
hesitatingly. Forgive him  for what ? Lucy,
looking at him. recognised his unconsciousness,
and received her sharpest pang. ' You must
forgive me,' he repeated ; ' I suppose I am
horribly selfish. This separation is like a
nightmare, it overpowers one's ordinary self.
And then it is to so few that I can speak. I
have always felt that when I was near you I
was somehow near her.'

She could bear it no longer ; she sprang
to her feet.

Don't let us talk more  you can't understand,
you never will understand ! '

VOL. III. R

What is the mystery ? ' he said impatiently.
' And why can't I understand ? Am
I always to be kept in this unenlightened
state ? Am I never to know ? '

Never,' she said defiantly ; ' never ! '

We shall see he replied significantly.
There is someone who will help me.'

Who ? '

You,' he said, looking at her and smiling.
You will forget all that has bothered you ;
you will go back to the times when, as you
say, we were very good friends, and your kind
heart will make you set to work to put this
tangle straight.'

Then for the first time she faltered.

Oh,' she cried a little wildly, ' I warn you
not to think that of me ! '

Warn, if you please,' he said confidently,
but I am right ; you will do it, and you will
be glad to have done it, because it is a very
happy thing to create happiness.'

He was gone before she had time to utter
her denial again, and she was left standing in
the middle of the room, looking after him,
with her heart in a whirl of emotion. How
she loved him as he said those words ! They
went straight to the best part of her, that part
which was not dead, though pressed down, as
it seemed, by something stronger. Upon this
his faith in her acted like a clarion call. It
answered, it leapt up. It had strength  for
the moment  to tear away the veil with which
she had very carefully covered up her plans
and subterfuges. There  for the moment 
they lay, bare and repulsive, unutterably mean
and hateful. She shuddered at the sight.
She had taken such prodigious care to keep
them dressed up so as to present a fair exterior,
she had such excellent excuses for
every use she had made of them, that it
absolutely terrified her when for the first time
she saw them in their naked hideousness.

B 2

Yet through it all she was sensible of a thrill of
delight. He had trusted her. He had judged
her nobly. And when she remembered how
dangerously near she had advanced in this
last interview to a loss of self-control, to a
betrayal of herself to him, she felt as a person
might feel who suddenly awoke to a consciousness
of having by a miracle escaped
shipwreck.

But it was not to be expected that this
exaltation would last. Before she slept that
night she had almost resolved to write the
letter which should give him to Norma, but
when she awoke in the morning the other
feelings were uppermost. She could not. It
was too hard. She began to temporise again.
She would wait. K he were faithful. Norma
might grow weary of it all. She no longer, it
was true, ventured to say to herself that the
marriage should never be ; she had been sufficiently
frightened not to venture upon so

much ; but delay  delay might be almost
praiseworthy, was certainly pardonable. She
would wait  wait, at any rate, until she had
seen Xorma. When she came back  and the
time was drawing very near  when she came
back she would go to Dover and judge for
herself.

Only, meanwhile, those words of his
touched  stung her: she could not shake off
the burden of his faith.

Also, as has been already hinted, she liked
to feel that in her hands rested the decision ;
that, in a way, she was the controller of his
fate. This, indeed, had a very potent charm
for her, or would have had, if here again her
conscience had not been roused to antagonism,
and said so much against it, that the satisfaction
was lessened. It was one thing to have
the power, another to reflect how the power
had been gained.

But through all these, and above all these,

there was something else at work. For the
first tie in her life, Lucy had been stirred
by real love, and the deeper and the truer
love is, the more unselfish it becomes, and the
nearer it approaches the divine. She loved
George Lawrence, and that love was working
within her, leavening the heart. She was
tortured by its pain, but she could not remain
inert under its sweet influence ; it was moving
her, lifting her above herself.

So she wavered  tossed here and there,
angry, miserable, resentful, remorseful. After
a few days had passed, she began to think
that the next moment would bring Lawrence,
hardly knowing whether she longed for or
dreaded his coming, undecided whether to
remain obstinate or to tell him that by her
action lie would make him happy. But he
did not come. He was waiting, a prey to
many doubts, and yet something within
assured him that he was acting prudently in

leaving his last words to work. It must be
owned, however, that his self-restraint cost
him something, and that he often thought of
an argument which might have been powerfully
advanced ; and as the days went on and
he heard nothing, his hope began to fail.

Still he held to his resolution, and Lucy
grew more sick of heart. She had friends in
London, but she was a unit of less consequence
in London than in Dover, and her
winter had not been particularly brilliant, or
her companions amusing. Failure was written
across her plans, the future looked dull and
spiritless, and she could not regard herself
with the calm admiration which in general
was provided by her moral standpoint. One
day she took up a heap of photographs, turning
them idly over without much thought of
the originals, when she suddenly came upon
one of Major Macarthy. With a rush the
whole remembrance of that time swept over

her, and for the first time she thought of the
man himself, not of the persons surrounding
him, of herself, indeed, as a prominent person.
She remembered the faces of the people, who,
grave and silent, trooped up to the rectory
that autumn afternoon, to see the dead man
they loved so well, lying with his face to the
setting sun. What had it been, this influence ?
He was not clever  about many things he
might be charged with foolishness  he was
not rich, and yet they all loved him ; through
the winter months his grave  Lawrence told
her  was never left without some offerings.
He had never failed one of them in their need,
had never seen suffering without trying to
relieve it, had never spared himself. Her
own conscience shrank trembling from such
a test. Because lie was suffering, she schemed
that others should suffer too. Norma she did
not much think about, but Lawrence  she
could not help seeing something of what it

was to him, this sickening, hopeless waiting !
The tumult of thought which had first stirred
uneasily, and then, under George Lawrence's
words, leapt into a storm, now gathered an
almost menacing power round the recollection
of the man whom, living, she had despised.
She cried bitterly, for even at this supreme
moment of trial the instinct of self-pity was
strong within her, but after she had sobbed a
good deal, she went to her writing-table, and
scrawled a few cold and hasty lines to Xorma,
closing them hurriedly, and although it was
too late for the post, she gave them to her
maid to post at once.

Then she would tell Lawrence. She wanted
her reward. He should not hear of it from
Norma, he should know that it was to her he
owed everything. Her poor little heart, so
cramped and dwarfed by the burden of self,
could not shake off the incubus, although it
had been capable of a great effort. She must

be dramatic even if she were in despair.
Lawrence would certainly come. But when
one day passed, and a second, without bringing
him, she could bear it no longer, and the next
afternoon wrote a note begging him to come
and see her.

Meanwhile he was feeling that his effort

with her was all in vain. From Saturday to

Tuesday he went down to Richmond. On

Tuesday when he reached his lodgings he found

a letter from Miss ElHson, telling him that she

had just heard from Norma, that there was a

panic of measles at Craigmuir, that she meant

to leave on Monday, travel through, and reach

Dover on Tuesday. ' There is no use in trying

to see her,' wrote Miss Ellison, 'unless you

have something definite to say. Let me, at

any rate, have a talk with her first, and if you

are impatient to be doing something, you might

take the opportunity of running down to see

Bessie Drummond.'

Lawrence was off that evening. He caulit
the evening train to Edinburgh, rolled himself
in his rug, for the air was bitterly cold, and
shut out thought by the help of a cigar and
an evening paper.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

When the mesmerism Snow

With his hand's first sweep

Put the earth to sleep,
'Twas a time when the heart could show

All.

Robert Browning.

'HE scare about measles passed as
quickly as it came, turned out to be
no more than an inoffensive rash, and
gave no cause for breaking up the pleasant
party. Norma, however, Alas only quickening
her own departure by a day or two, and
though Bessie begged her to stay them out,
she would only linger for one day.

They expect me at home,' she said, ' and
I am sure I had better go.'

I believe it is that ridiculous Jack who is
driving you,' asserted Lady Drummond discontentedly.


He is rather ridiculous. I didn't mind
while he made it half a joke, but to have a
boy eight years one's junior sighing and looking
dacrcrers at one, is really too much. And
he was such a nice boy, too I Xever mind,
Bessie ; he will be quite sensible again, and
take his proper interest in the farm and the
fishing, when I have been for twenty-four hours
out of the house.'

Where's Norma ? ' cried Sir Eobert,
coming in with a heavy step. ' What's this
about your going tomorrow, Norma ? You'd
better not, take my word for it. You'll have
an awfully cold time.'

Neither Agnes nor I mind the cold,'
she replied lightly. ' I can tell you that incoming
here, what with hot tins and furs,
we were almost melted. I have settled

everything, Eobert, and I would really rather
go.'

Then m that case you must. But there's
a lot of snow about.'

I've said all I can,' added his wife.

However, we'll see that you're well packed
in,' promised cheerful Sir Eobert, ' and I don't
suppose much harm can come to you. You're
a wise woman to go straight through. What's
the good of knocking about at draughty
stations ? That's what I never can persuade
Bessie.'

Oh, I find my own way a very comfortable
one,' said Lady Drummond nodding.
I hope Norma's may be as successful.'

I must go and break to Chambers that
she has to take out some of our things again,'
said Mrs. Winyeatt. ' You have no idea
what it will cost her. When once she has
folded a dress, she would like it to remain
so for ever.'

She looks much bettor for her stay here,'
remarked Bessie, when her sister had left the
room.

Looked well enough before, didn't she ? '
asked her husband, taking up the ' Times.'

She was so pre-occupied. She seemed to
have something on her mind.'

Grizzling, eh ? '

Robert ! You know as well as I do that
Norma is not the woman to grizzle. But that
Dover life of hers wants change and  an
occasional upsetting '

A husband, in short ! ' put in Sir Eobert,
expecting a prompt snub.

But to his surprise his wife accepted the
suggestion with favour.

Yes,' she agreed with a sigh, ' I wish she
would marry. She might. But I begin to
despair. I hope Madge won't stand out so
determinedly against her own good.'

'Don't be afraid. She'll take an independent

line, with that nose,' returned Sir
Eobert mischievously.

If Bessie could have read a letter which
looked like all other letters, and was innocently-handed
to Norma out of the post-bag by Sir
Eobert at breakfast ! She opened it almost
reluctantly, and then in a moment, room,
breakfast table, young Jack Drummond's face
seemed all to aro round in a whirl. She had
felt so much, pictured so much, in that one
instant, that surely hours had gone by, and
yet here was Jack Drummond finishing his
sentence in a tragic voice 

'Some tongue, Mrs. Winyeatt? You'll
allow me to cut you some tongue ? '

And I'll be hanged if it didn't sound as if
he were asking if she would prefer his cutting
his own throat ! ' said Sir Eobert to his Bessie
afterwards, with much disgust. 'I didn't
think anyone in our family could be such a
fool I'

But perhaps it was as well for Xorma that
this open love-making might have been considered
disconcerting, for joy and amazement
had left her almost dumb. If  lately  some
gleams of hope had stolen into her heart,
and, once being there, could not be shut out
again, they only pointed to some far future
day. If Lucy married  then I But that she
she, of all persons in the world !  should
give up, yield her dominant wil, write that
lie had considered the matter of their conversation
at Marlham, and that if Xorma
wished to call mr. Lawrence to her side, she
was at liberty to do so  this, this was beyond
her wildest tether of hope. Yet here
it was. The words were plain, even if
they danced before her eyes, and if lie had
to murmur no  yes  she did not know
what, to Jack Drummond's tragic offer of
tongue. When she came down, dressed for
her journey, her eyes were so bright, her

VOL. III. S

whole face so sparkling, that Lady Drummond
stared at her.

I never knew Craigmuir work such
wonders ! ' she cried. ' Norma, you are a different
creature I '

'Yes,' said Norma softly, 'I am. Thank
you for all your kindness, Bessie.'

You ought to come oftener. Promise
me that in future you will come oftener.'

'I will try. I will write to you, tomorrow.'


Oh, not tomorrow. I am not quite so
unreasonable. You forget how tired you
will be.'

No, I don't forget. I shall write tomorrow.
I must.'

Bessie  Norma ! ' cried Sir Eobert, striding
briskly in, ' are you ready  are you coming
? Time we were off.'

Quite a party went with Norma in the
omnibus. Sir Eobert drove his four greys,

but Jack Drummond looked so miserable
when lie offered him a seat on the box, that
his good-natured cousin burst out laughing.

Go where you like, my boy,' he said.
Grant will be too glad of an outside place.
Will anybody lick those fools of dogs ! One
can't hear oneself speak.'

Miss Mainwaring had gone, but there
were two ]\ss Falconers, who made a hero of
Jack Drummond, and were not at all sorry to
bid Mrs. Winyeatt good-bye. It was very
ungrateful of Jack to wish with all his heart
that they had stayed at home, and not added
to the many claims on Mrs. Winyeatt's attention.
But he found his opportunity for a
moment when he had taken her rugs from
the porter, and jumped in to strap and
arrange them.

You don't know what this time has been
to me ! ' he whispered fervently.

It has been a very nice time for us alls

2

returned Norma kindly. 'Agnes, have you
wished Mr. Drummond good-bye? I hope
Ave shall all meet again some day.'

Macintosh says there is some report of
snow along the line ; you'd better have waited,
Norma. Got your flask? And you go
straight through ? '  from Sir Eobert.

No, we stop in London. I have to see
Lucy.'

It was Bessie's turn.

Have you everything you want ? Madge
is on the verge of tears. Nothing left behind ?
keys ?  tickets ? Good-bye, Chambers ;
good-bye, Agnes.'

A general chorus of Good-bees, a waving
of hands. Jack Drummond running along the
platform, and they were off, and then Norma,
under press of some rush of feeling, stooped
down and kissed Agnes.

Mamma, I wish you would have Madge
to stay with us,' said the little girl.

Oh, we will, we will ! '  so gladly that
Agnes looked at her reproachfully.

Are you glad to go ? '

I am very glad we came,' said Xorma,
looking into her eyes and smiling. ' And I
like going home.'

'I don't think / do  much,' said Agnes
with a sigh. ' There's a pony at Craigmuir,
and Uncle Eobert is very nice, and there are
such lots of dogs.'

You shall have a dog if you want one.
I will ask Uncle Eobert to look out for something
that he fancies, and to send it to Dover.'

Oh ! '  Agnes sprang up and gave her a
rapturous hug. ' I wish Uncle Eobert would
bring it himself ! '

And it almost appeared as if Xorma were
ready to promise this, so anxious was she that
some of her own secret store of happiness
should radiate upon her child. She talked
to her merrily of the good things which it

appeared time was to bring ; of Madge's visit
and where they would take her, and all the
wonderful places they would see. And it
seemed that many of these places were those
to which they had gone last summer.

'But last year we had Mr. Lawrence,'
remarked Agnes, who had always a slight
tendency to look at the reverse side.

Perhaps he will come again.'

I don't think he will, after all this time,'
sighed the little girl.

Thanks to the provision for their comfort,
they were quite warm in the carriage, but
outside the aspect of things was sufficiently
dreary. Everything was sheeted with snow,
and the greyness and absence of sun gave a
very forlorn look to the broad landscape.
Agnes after a time grew sleepy, and Norma
was left to her own happy thoughts and wondering.
She read Lucy's brief letter again
and again, and tried to fathom the causes

which had led to it ; but in vain, except that,
as Miss Ellison said, Xorma always believed
that the most unlikely people might do something
heroic. It was true that another woman
would have refused to forgive the wrong done
to her, but in this woman's eyes it was already
swept away, and she longed for nothing more
than to reach Lucv and show her what she
felt.

Few people were travelling. Every now
and then some official looked in, but otherwise
they had the carnage to themselves, and
happy dreams carried her so lightly over the
way that when they reached Edinburgh she
was amazed to find herself so far. Here they
got food, and sat by the fire until it was time
to start again, and Agnes was charmed with
the lights becrinnino to twinkle from the tall

O CO

houses in the Old Tom. But presently a
guard came into the carriage.

I don't know, ma'am,' he said, ' if you're

aware that it's not unlikely we may have some
cleefficiilty in getting along to-night. I'm
not saying that we shall,' he added with
caution, ' but the snow's been falling heavily
about the Border, and I was thinking, that
with the young lady and no gentleman, if it
was the same to you, you might prefer remaining
in Edinburgh the night ? '

Mrs. Winyeatt hastily reflected.

There is no actual danger, I suppose ? '

No danger, ma'am ; but, as I was saying,
there might be inconvenience.'

I think we will risk it,' she said quietly;
thank you for telling me.'

In truth, now that her pent-up feelings
had been allowed to follow their vent, she
could hardly have been stopped by any difficulty.
They had plenty of warm wraps, and
an ample provision of food ; besides, it was
March, and to be snowed up in the month of
March seemed an absurd anomaly. She was

not soon alarmed, and after all the guard, a
cautious Scotchman, probably thought that
a very little discomfort might daunt a lady.
If the snow became really too deep, they
might get out at some other station and
find beds in a town or village, at any rate
nearer than Edinburgh. It was certainly
snowing more thickly as they went along, and
through the dusk they watched the flakes
driving black against a sombre sky. On one
side of the train little heaps of snow rose along
the window-ledges, and when the door was
opened it let in thickly-powdered figures to
inspect tickets or change the hot-water tins.
Shadows deepened outside. Agnes was comfortably
packed up to sleep, the blinds were
drawn across, and they could fairly keep out
the cold, which yet, it must be owned, was
more penetrating than Xorma had expected.
By-and-by she too slept a little, a delicious
sleep, which seemed always just touched with

happy consciousness, and from which she
awoke smiling. It struck her, however, with
a sense of uneasiness, that the train laboured
heavily and that they were going but slowly.
Agnes slept warmly. Chambers also slept. A
little fine snow had crept in at one of the ventilators,
and was lying there unmelted. Norma
got softly up and closed the aperture. At the
next station she called the guard, who reported
that the line was very heavy, but they hoped
to get on ; they had the finest engine on the
line, and the driver thought the worst was
nearly over. One passenger, however, a little
red-faced man in a grey coat, elected to get
out at this station, and Norma hesitated. On
inquiry she found that the inns were at some
distance from the station, that there were no
cabs on the spot, and owing to the snow,
there would be great difficulty in getting one.
It seemed folly to take the child into the
teeth of the night in order to avoid an uncertain

danger. Once more, she closed every
outlet, made her companions swallow some
food, and presently forgot all about her surroundings
in a dream that was half-sleeping,
half-waken g.

It must at last have ended in sleep, for
she was roused by a heavy dragging yet soft
sensation, by the train stopping, and by shouts.
Agnes still slept, Chambers jumped up with a
start. The window was so thickly frost-coated
that it was impossible to do more than scratch
a blurred hole, and at last Xorma let it down
and stretched out. Men were already moving
about with lanterns, but with difficulty, and
plunging at every footstep deep in snow. It
was unnecessary to put any questions as to
what had happened. Pallor of snow aU
round, heaped high on either side, the thud
of the engine as it seemed to struggle against
the vast inert overpowering mass, spoke for
themselves. It was quite plain that they had

run into and were embedded in a snow-drift,
formed, as Norma thought, in a cutting.

She was not the woman to make unnecessary
demands upon the men, who were better
employed than in answering them, though
other passengers were shouting questions, and
little curls of hot breath came out into the
frosty air from train-windows. Mrs. Winyeatt
closed hers, and explained the situation to
Chambers. There seemed no reason to fear
danger, but, as the guard had said, there might
be considerable inconvenience and discomfort,
and Norma blessed Bessie's forethought in
providing them with what she had described
as enough provisions for a week's siege. Meanwhile
it was probable that all that could be done
in the way of digging would be done, and that
no one who was not a man with a spade could
do better than practise the grace of patience.
The cold was beyond doubt growing very
severe.

They had come so slowly that they had
lost much time, and although they had not
long crossed the Border, it was already the
middle of the night. The cutting, it is true,
sheltered them a good deal from the force of
an eager wind, but this swept in a draught between
the banks, carrying with it minute particles
of snow-dust as sharp as glass. Snow
was not actually falling or only falling sparsely ;
what the wind brought was the liirht coating
that had lately fallen, not as yet bound close
by the frost.

Minutes dragged by with interminable
tediousness, and lengthened into an hour.
Almost all the male passengers had turned out,
and were helping the small body of railway
men in their efforts to clear the line. But it
became evident that the drift extended to so
oTcat a length that a far larger number of workmen
would be necessary before any impression
could be made on the mass, and the question

of what was best for the passengers became
one of some importance.

Agnes had awakened sleepy, and complaining
of cold, and her mother, fancying from the
sound of voices that work had been given up,
let down the window, and put her first inquiry.
Her friend the guard stumbled over
to answer it.

It appeared that there was much discussion
as to what was best for the passengers. There
were only about a dozen women and children
in the train, and twice as many men. There
was a station a mile and a half further on, and
the general opinion was in favour of all
gong there. There they would find fire and
more substantial shelter than the train could
afibrd. The drift was so deep and the engine
and front carriages so embedded that it would
not only be long before the hne was cleared,
but some hours before the train could be
extricated. At the same time it was possible

that, on hearing of the disaster, an engine
would be sent in pursuit, which might take the
train back to Berwick or Edinburgh. WoukI
the lady wait for that ?

The lady thought she would prefer to
walk. It seemed to her, indeed, that an'
movement would be better than sitting
shivering between banks of snow. There was
no knowing how long the engine would be incoming,
and  to go back !

The guard looked at her with respect
when he found she at once made up her
mind. So many of the passengers had hesitated
and questioned, and expected answers
beyond the knowledge of man, that, though
long-suffering by nature, he had been goaded
ito rebellion. He hastened to assure her
that she was right, and if there was any
difficulty with the little girl, some of them
would be quite willing to carry her. Xorma's
resolution, indeed, gave an impetus to the

others ; and in a few minutes the men with
their spades were clearing a little pathway up
the embankment, and a curious company was
combing up by the aid of the lanterns.

There was a good deal of laughing as well
as of grumbling. Agnes was delighted, Mrs.
Winyeatt and Chambers between them carried
their basket of provisions, which was likely to
be of great use to more than themselves. One
poor woman was so pale and so poorly clad,
that Norma, without a word, took off her own
fur cloak and wrapped it round her. And
then they set off for their difficult and
floundering walk.

How strange it was ! The night had
fairly cleared, the heavy snow-clouds, broken
up by the wind, drifted wildly across a starlit
sky, which gave sufficient light to show
the ghastly and desolate stretch of snow,
reaching like some monstrous shroud into the
far distance. Along this vast sweep straggled

the little black procession, two lanterns
flinging out their feeble cheer. The friendly
guard had stayed behind with his train, but
he had told one of the others to look after
Mrs. Winyeatt, and the man after a time
offered to carry Agnes part of the way. But
Agnes had something  on an emergency  of
her mother's spirit, and when Xorma had
given up her basket to the man, she was able
to help the little girl better, and the exercise
had stiffened her own limbs, and sent
the blood coursing more briskly. It was,
doubtless, a very fatiguing walk, but Xorma
had no feeling that she, at any rate, required
pity ; the spring of happiness within her making
her so indifferent to discomfort that she was
able to cheer the other women, and to keep up
their spirits when they were inclined to flag.

The station was reached at last, and, news
having been taken there of the accident, what
preparations were possible lead been made.

VOL. III. T

Being only, however, a small station, with a
limited staff, and the one man who could be
spared having hurried out to get help, these
preparations consisted of no more than a
good fire in the waiting-room, into which
they all crowded. It appeared that there
was a village at hand, from which provisions
could be got in the morning, and meanwhile
Mrs. Winyeatt proceeded to unpack her
basket, and to deal out rations as bountifully
as she dared. This unexpected good fortune
raised their spirits wonderfully, and on the
strength of it Norma became a sort of heroine
among them. The woman who still wore
the fur cloak was perhaps the least grateful
of all, but it was evident that she would have
suffered bitterly without it ; and Mrs. Win-yeast
was glad enough to see it round her.

The difficulty was to find enough chairs
or boxes. The men stretched themselves
grumbling on the floor, one of the few chairs

was given to ]airs. Winyeatt, and for Agnes'
sake she did not refuse it. She Hated the
tired little girl on her lap, took off her boots
to dry them by the fire, looked at the motley
company with some little amusement, and
by-and-by, her own head leaning against the
hard wall, slept as soundly as ever she had
done in her life.

Xot for long.

She was suddenly awakened by what
seemed an extraordinary noise, and started up
wondering where she was, and what had
happened. There was hissing, a bell ringing,
a rush, then came confused voices and trampling
; she did not at first realise that she was
at a station, and that this meant no more than
the arrival of a train. Several of the sleepers,
however, raised themselves with grunts, shook
themselves, and hurried out on the platform
to see what the arrival meant for them. One
man came and poked the fire.

T 2

We'll maybe get a chance of going onlie
said to Mrs. Winyeatt. ' They'll have to
send lis back in this train if it can't get further ;
unless any passenger prefers to stop behind in
this hole. That won't be me, for one. Didn't
know boards was so hard till I tried 'em for a
bed.'

As he said the last word the door was
flung open, and some dozen of the new
arrivals tramped in, stamping, and  chiefly 
smoking. When they saw the already crowded
condition of the room they stared round them
in surprise.

Not many beds here to let,' said the man
who had already spoken. ' Such as there is,
you're welcome, gentlemen.'

Norma had taken off her hat, and tied a
lace scarf round her head ; it fell forward a little
and shaded her face, so that, from the shadow
and the dim light of the waiting-room, in which
the gas was turned down, her face was scarcely

visible. But a gentleman who had come in
behind the others, and stood inside the doorway,
surveying the room, started as his eye
fell on her. In two seconds he had pitched
away his cigar, was through the astonished
group and standing up straight before her.

You, Xorma  you ! '

If her thoughts had been less full of him,
if those thoughts had not been so happy, and
expectation already looking forward with
delight, she would have been more troubled.
As it was, it scarcely seemed astonishing that
he was there  in the most improbable place
in the world. Agnes was much more surprised.


Why, mamma I ' she cried helplessly,
turning towards her mother a flushed face and
large startled eyes.

I don't know that I can say anything
more than Agnes,' said Lawrence with a half
laugh. ' I thought you were at home again.'

He was infinitely more moved than she ; to
him it was not nearly such a simple matter.
He had not known when or how he should
ever meet her again, while she had been able
in her own mind to bring that time very
near. And for him the barrier still existed ;
he was expecting each moment to have it
thrust before his eyes. Yet she was looking
at him with sweet eyes in which there was
no warning.

We put off our coming for a day, and our
train is buried in a snow-drift a mile and a
half away,' she explained. ' Isn't it more
wonderful that you should be here ? '

Oh, I ? I was on my way ' he began,

and then stopped awkwardly. The sudden
meeting had taken away his self-possession.
How should he say where he had been going ?
But she saved him the attempt.

To Craigmuir ? '  as if it were the most
natural thing in the world.

Well, yes, to Craigmuir," lie repeated
doggedly.

And how shall you get on ? '

I meant  all who are here are men who
for one reason or other wanted to push on 
we meant to come as far as we could, and if
the drift couldn't be removed, walk round it.
The train you came in will have to be taken
back.'

But,' said Xorma, with a small smile
curving her hips, ' Bessie doesn't expect you at
Craigmuir. Must you go on ? '

And leave you here ? Xo,' he said
briefly.

But something in her voice, in her smile,
some touch of playfulness which he had not
seen in her of late, was stirring his heart as
bare branches are stirred by breath of spring.
He bent forward and tried to look into her
eyes, and then became impatiently aware that
other eyes were watching them curiously.

Can't you come out of this hole ? ' he said
a little imperiously. ' You won't hurt.'

She paused, then  ' Yes, I will come.
Agnes can stay with Chambers.'

He wrapped a shawl round her. His hands
shook, for she did not resist.

Haven't you a fur cloak or something ? '

This will do very well,' she said, and went
lightly through the crowd.

Outside it was clear. The wind had died
away, clouds had vanished, and frosty stars
shone brightly.

Here is a deliverance from that stuffy
room ! ' she said turning to him as they walked
down the little platform beyond the point
where the train was still waiting. She met
his eyes fastened upon her.

Norma  is it ended ? ' he asked hoarsely,
and as she did not immediately answer, he
stopped her. ' For God's sake ! '

It was under his breath, yet it was a cry,



a cry which pierced her heart. For reply she
put her hand into his.

I should have written to you tomorrow,'
she said softly.

The bird on the bough.

The song of the bird,

The blue river reaches

By soft breeze stirred ;
O soul, and hast thou found again thy treasure ?
O world, and art thou once more filled with pleasure ?

O world, hast thou passed

Thy sad winter again ?

O soul, bast thou cast

Thy dull vesture of pain ?
O winter, sad wert thou and full of sorrow,
O soul, O world, the summer comes tomorrow !

O soul, 'tis love quickens

Time's languorous feet :

O world, 'tis spring wakens

Thy fair blossoms sweet ;
Fair world, fair soul, that lie so close together.
Each with sad wintry days and fair spring weather.  Gwen.

Epilogues are dull things, and so
playgoers have found out, and will
have none of them. But story-readers
still hold to the old traditions, or

perhaps it is the story-writers who are unwilling
so curtly to part with the friends who
have gone along with them in kindly companionship.


The journey, at any rate, needs no talking
about. Some time afterwards, when Chambers,
who behaved very well at the time, made an
allusion to ' that dreadful night,' Mrs. Winyeatt
stared at her. And, indeed, no one was the
worse for it, and the woman from whom
Norma never reclaimed her cloak, was certainly
the better. They reached London
safely, and then came the first shadow on
Lawrence's bliss ; for Xorma went to a hotel,
and told him he must see her no more that
day ; she should stay till night with Lucy.
Nor would she listen to his appeals to be
allowed to come too.

Lucy, to whom she had telegraphed, met
her quite easily. ' You poor thing,' she
exclaimed, kissing her, ' wdiat you must have

gone through ! The papers mentioned the snow
this morning, and then came your telegram.
Haven't you really got any cold ?  nor Agnes
either? I rather hoped they would not have
let you start in such weather.'

Oh, we were not to be pitied  we did very
well,' returned Norma colouring. Lucy was
easy, it was she who felt guilty and shamefaced.
She could not blurt out what had
happened on the journey, yet until it was told
and until she had alluded to Lucy's letter her
position felt intolerable. And Lucy did not
seem inclined to alice to it.

You are really going home tomorrow ?
You won't stay in London over Holy Week
and Easter ? I rather fancied you might ; I
thought you would like the services.'

No, I am really going home. Lucy ' 
Norma went to the sofa and sat by her side.
The girl's face hardened slightly, but she made
no other sign. ' Lucy, I must tell you, you

have made me very happy. It was good of
you to write.'

Do you look at it in that light ? '

How can I look at it in any other ?
Perhaps you ought not to have had the power
of separating us ir. your hands, but  you
had it.'

'Ah, then, you repented?' There was
more than a touch of taunt in the girl's tone.
You wished you had not promised ? '

No, I think not,' returned Xorma slowly.

What do you mean, then ? '

Don't let us talk of it, we need not  now.
You have written, and there is an end.'

Lucy was silent a moment, then she said,
Oh, we haven't come to the end yet. I
suppose you know that Mr. Lawrence is in
London ? Are you or I to write and tell him
that he is at liberty to pay his addresses ? 
that's the correct phrase, isn't it P '  with a
hard little laugh.

Norma coloured again.

That is not required,' she said with some
difficulty. Lucy turned sharply upon her.

Then you have been dishonest, after all ! '
she cried in almost a tone of triumph.
Nor ma's eyes flashed.

'Lucy!' she exclaimed. The girl recovered
herself in a measure.

Well, you must have been in communication,
then,' she said sullenly.

Yes, we have. During the last twenty-four
hours.' She went on to relate what had
happened.

Lucy listened eagerly, though with an
evident attempt at indifference, and when her
sister-in-law had finished, remarked 

Very romantic ! Almost enough so to
please you. Norma. So seldom, isn't it, that
coincidences occur at just the right moment.
But this couldn't have been better if it had
been arranged.'

She knew all the time that her words were
bitter, unjust ; she hated herself for using
them, and yet would have had them fifty times
as stinging. But Mrs. Winyeatt said quite
simply 

It was very wonderful. It seems so
more to me now as I look back than it did at
the time. You see, your letter had so filled
my thoughts that when I saw him before me
I was scarcely surprised ; but for him it was
very different.' She stopped  for a moment
she looked appealingly at the girl, but she was
only sitting as before, staring at a fan stuck
for no apparent reason against the wall, her
eyebrows slightly lifted. Yet something, some
sense of isolation, of desolation, struck the
elder woman painfully. 'Lucy,' she cried,
let us be friends  please let us be friends !
It is what I most wish.'

Oh, you can do without Paul's relations
now ; you will have to adopt new ones. mrs.

Lawrence  well, it wouldn't surprise me if
you were to find Mrs. Lawrence a little difficult.
I should have got on better with her, at
any rate. But there is Nelly. I wish you joy
of Nelly.'

Mrs. Winyeatt was silent. Then she said,
I want you to feel that I know that I owe
you all  this.'

'What? Nelly?'

You know what I mean,' said the other
gently.

Lucy turned sharply upon her.

'It might have ended differently if he had
not seen you when you came down. Everything
was against me. But don't think that I
regret it now. I'm very thankful. He is dull.'

Not to me,' said Mrs. Winyeatt smiling.

Well, then, owing to you.'

'Ah, that is pardonable,' said Norma, smiling'
still. Lucy in this mood was more like the
old Lucy. Still she had something to say

which she would not have said, if without it
she could have satisfied Lawrence ; but he had
been so persistent, that to avoid creating suspicion,
she had promised. ' When are you
coming back to Dover ? ' she said, as easily as
she could. She knew nothing of Lawrence's
last interview, or the question would have presented
more difficulties.

Never ! ' cried the girl sharply. But the
next moment she added with a laugh  ' Did
Mr. Lawrence desire you to ask me ? He did,
I know. I can tell you exactly what you
were to say  this was to make no difference,
my home always to be with you, the curtain
to drop upon charming tableau, three standing
hand in hand, soft music, tears of joy, bless
you, my children ! Good Heavens, what fools
men are ! '

She poured out the words tumultuously,
passionately, and when she had ended started
up, as if stung beyond endurance. Norma

VOL. III. U

also rose. Her heart smote her. She felt
that this pain lay at her door, yet that nothing
she could utter could soothe it. In a
minute lucy came back from the window.

'I told you that he was dull,' she said.
'Never mind, you have said your, or his, say,
and you can give any reason you like for my
not accepting his kind offer. Mind you say
kind. I shall not stay in London. I hate it.
Probably I shall go abroad. Some people
want me to join them.'

Norma kissed her without speaking.
When she had gone the girl flung her
arms above her head* ' How could I give
him up to her ! ' she cried vehemently.

George Lawrence went to Dover with Mrs.
Winyeatt the next day  he pretended that
immense compensation was owing to him  and
Miss Ellison, who knew nothing, fell into a
condition of blank amazement at the station,
where she had come to meet her friend. She

owned very frankly to being in some degree
disappointed, because she had pictured herself
as of great use in the affair, and had a
hundred unanswerable arguments with which
to assail Norma. Her alliance with Lawrence
had indeed weighed very faithfully on her
mind, and, lo, here was the victory won without
her being called upon to strike so much asa
stroke ! Xor could she even get a satisfactory
reason, though she descended so far as to
ask Lawrence in private.

I know absolutely nothing,' he said, ' no
more than you. Norma has told me she cannot
enter into explanations, and I am only too
thankful to take the goods the cross have driven
me and ask no questions.'

Well, all I can say is, that it is very unsatisfactory
for those who get no goods,' returned
Miss Ellison.

This was undoubtedly true, but it is to be
feared that Lawrence was too happy to giver

2

her the sympathy she deserved. His trust in
Norma was absolute, and when he saw that it
troubled her to be asked what course of events
had brought them together, his lips were
sealed. Perhaps in his own mind he connected
that last visit of his to Lucy with the matter,
but if this were so, he never spoke of it, and
on her part she was absolutely true to Paul's
sister. It was as Miss Ellison had foreseen
; under Lawrence's touch Norma's responsive
nature expanded, shook off certain morbid
limitations which had threatened to stunt it,
grew to weigh the past more justly, to accept
the joy of the present as God's good gift, not
to be received fearfully. As for Janet Somerville,
her amazement and delight knew no
bounds, and Mr. Lawrence became in her
sight almost as great a hero as Mr. Eose.

'Eeally, Janet, one would suppose you
were going to be married yourself,' said Isabel
crossly.

It's almost as good.'

Well, it's lucky I did not wait for my
dress in order to be Lucy's bridesmaid,'
returned lier sister with a laugh. ' Lucy
really did make herself rather ridiculous.'

Poor Lucy ! ' sighed Janet.

Poor Lucy ! Oh, if she only heard you !
I wonder how she treats this? She was
always equal to an emergency, I'll say that
for her.'

Oh, she must very soon have found out
all about it,' Janet replied with a return to
cheerfulness ; * and perhaps she never meant so
much as we fancied.'

We fancied as much as she meant,' said
Isabel oracularly ; and when Janet stared at
her, she only laughed, and then sighed,
looking at her gloves. ' Did you ever see such
a disreputable sight ? And I can't, I absolutely
can't afford another pair.'

Take mine,' cried Janet, running to her

drawers, and dragging out her scanty store.
There, those are really rather nice.'

It seems a shame,' said Isabel, looking
longingly at them. Then as they were
pressed into her hand, she kissed her sister.
I wish, oh, I do wish, Janet, that you were
going to marry a rich man ; you would do
him credit.'

I'm the richest girl in the world,' returned
Janet valiantly. ' I've got three pounds thirteen
and sixpence saved, screwed out of my allowance,
towards my trousseau, and you know
Aunt Ellen has promised us a silver teapot.'

Well, I can't conceive how you've screwed
anything. I know I couldn't. But then, I
always seem to want more than you.'

Yes, of course. Still, I'm very proud. It
will be so splendid if I'm not obliged to
come on poor papa for much.'

'Oh, poor papa!' repeated her sister,
with a shrug. ' It's a comfort, any way, that

Mrs. Winyeatt is going to give us the dresses
for her own wedding, because they're sure
to be nice. And I hope they're going to
be quick about it. Didn't you say Midsummer
? '

Yes, and Mrs. Winyeatt is going down to
Marlham in May. Awful ! ' said Janet with a
sympathetic shudder.

Is-abel ! '

Isabel ! There's papa calling ! Fly ! '

It was quite true that Norma had
consented to go to the rectory for a week ;
true, also, that the visit looked to her little
less appalling than Janet had imagined it.
But it was a great wish of George Lawrence's,
and her feelings towards him at this time
were those of one who had much to make up.
She went, therefore, for a week at the end of
May, and by Lawrence's further wish, she
took Agnes with her, as well as Polly Medland
on a visit.

It was formidable  it could not be otherwise.
Mrs. Lawrence's prejudices were plants
of hardy growth ; even if they seemed to
disappear for a time, they were up again
before you had time to look round. But she
was also a good woman, and Major Macarthy's
death had left a softening touch of which
she was never after quite unconscious. To
the day of her death, and in spite of some
disapproval, she would believe that her son
would have done better to have let her choose
for him and to have married Lucy. But that
did not prevent her doing her best to be kind
to Norma, and in after years she remarked to
Nelly that she was glad George's influence had
succeeded in making his wife more considerate
towards Lucy.

From the rector and from Nelly, Norma
had an enthusiastic welcome ; Nelly, indeed,
had not looked so happy since the Major's
death. Toby, as faithful, as honest, and as

humble as ever, had attached himself chiefly
to the rector, but there was not a man,
woman, or child in the village but spoke of
him as the major's dog; and if any ignorant
dog or cat ventured to interfere with him,
they got no mercy from their masters.

And the major's grave was thick with
primroses and white violets.

Orchards he all along the slopes of the
Marlham hills, and to one of them George
Lawrence brought Xorma the morning before
she went back to Dover. To reach it they
turned into a narrow lane, and then clambered
through a gap in the hawthorn hedge, and up
a steep bank to the top. There are days in
May in which the most exquisite moment of
all the year seems to have been touched. The
enchantment and delicacy of the green, the
indescribable freshness and youth of the
world, the hope which is everywhere

abroad, the gay life which smiles and sings at
you  this is the charm which, long waited
for, comes at last for those who can see. It
was there that day. Grass grew long under
the trees, and was sprinkled with constellations
of pale primroses, and the airier heads
of dandelion clocks. The apple-trees, bearded
with moss, gnarled and fantastic in shape,
had leaped into life as young as the rest of
the world, and rosy blossoms ran along the
branches, and swept the grass, and tossed
themselves for joy of Hfe against the luminous
grey of the sky. On one side the ground fell
brokenly away towards the river, on the
other a grassy hedge crept along, a hedge in
which primroses and blue speedwells nestled,
and in the rich red bank were birds' nests,
and happy songs and twittering of joyful
counsel. Far in front, between the labyrinth
of boughs, and lying in a very sea of white
and pink blossom, rose the church tower and

the red roofs of the village, with trees of
tenderest lightest green, and a little on the
left one tall group of Scotch firs to give the
needful touch of sombre contrast.

In such an orchard, and on such a May
morning, George Lawrence and Norma wandered
enchanted. Everything had a delight,
a charm. Love vnih his touch had made
them as young as the youth about them ;
they sat down and blew dandelion clocks ;
he showed her the little wren's nest in the
hedge. As was to be expected, it was she
who first said with a smile 

George, do you know that we are
behaving absurdly like two children ? '

I am behaving exactly as I feel, and so
are you,' he said lazily. ' Nothing absurd in
that. I'm ready to make a daisy chain, if
that's all.'

You can't.'

'Can't I?'

He set to work, and she sat laughing at
him. Presently he remarked  ' The fact is,
Norma, you've a lot of youth to make up.'

I thought I'd done with it.'

'Ah, I foresee I shall have a great deal
to teach you. That is why I am beginning
at the beginning  with a daisy chain.'

But as she did not answer, he looked up
and saw her eyes shining with tears.

Norma ! ' he cried with swift change of
voice. ' My darling ! Have I hurt you ? '

'Hurt me?  you? No,' she said,
stretching out her hands and smiling through
her tears. ' I was wondering how much you
would find in me that was wanting besides
the lost youth. I have been afraid of so
many things  afraid even of being happy.'

Of being happy ? '

Yes, it seemed as if I  I had no right '

Did you expect to have to earn it ? ' he
asked tenderly. Then he said with a laugh 

I msh 1 could think that was why you sent
me away.'

No, it wasn't '

I know.' But as he saw she had not
finished, he added inquiringly, ' Well . '

I could not have done it for that

No,' he said, looking at her, ' you
couldn't. It wouldn't have been right. It
wouldn't have been you. And you won't be
afraid any more ? '

All round her there was a shining world,
birds, and singing, and blossoms, and the
gladness of God's gifts. How could she be
afraid ?

THE EM).

PRTS'TED BY

BPOraSWOODE And CO., NEWSTREET SQUAB*

LONDON

CROWN 8V0. NEATLY BOUND IN CLOTH.

BENTLEY'S

Favourite NOVELS

To be obtained of all Booksellers in the United Kingdom and the
Principal Booksellers and Importers in the Colonies.

Richard BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street, London.

H picture Galleries of Contemporary portraiture.

MONTHLY, PEICE 2s. 6d.

The size of the Magazine is 14 by 11 inches, and of the Portraits
93 Yy 7 inches. Each Portrait is 'panel size,' and is Printed in
Permanent Photography by Baeraud. A very brief biography
accompanies each Portrait, and Title-pages, Contents, and Covers are
issued at the end of each year for binding the Monthly Parts together
in handsome volumes for reference.

1. January 1888, contains : H.B. Cardinal Newman, The Marquis of Harrington, Miss

Mary Anderson.

2. February 1888, contains : Professor Ruskin, Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., Mr.

and Mrs. Kendal.

3. March 1888. contains : Eight Hon. J. Chamberlain, M.P.,Mr. Herbert Spencer, Miss

Helen Terry.

4. April 1888, contains : Mr. Henry Irving, Lady Randolph Churchill, Professor Sir

Richard Owen.

5. May 1888, contains: General Viscount Wolsey, Mr. "Walter Besant, Madame

Schumann.

6. June 1888, contains : Mr. Robert Browning, Bishop of Liverpool, Madame Bore.

7. July 1888, contains: Admiral Sir William Hewett, V.C., Mrs. Gladstone, Dr.

Richter.

8. August 1888, contains : Dr. W. G. Grace, Lord Justice Cotton, Mrs. Reeves (' Helen

Matters ')

9. September 1888, contains : The Marchioness of Granny, Mr. Sims Reeves, Sir

Daniel Gooch, Bart.

10. October 1888, contain' : Lord tennyson, General Sir Charles Warren, Madame

Antoinette Sterling.

11. November 1888, contains : Dr. Warre, Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, Rev. H. R. Hawes.

12. December 1888, contains : Right Hon. John Morley, M.P., Yen. Archdeacon Farrar,

Mrs. Lancaster.

13. January 1889, contains : Right Hon. W. H. Smith, M.P., Rev. C. H. Surgeon, Mrs.

Bernard Beer.
14 February 1889, contains : Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., Miss Rhoda Boughton,
Rev. J. E. C. Weldon.

15. March 1889, contains : The Duke of Devonshire, Keg., Madame Hermann Neruda,

Sir Charles Hailed.

16. April 1889, contains : Mr. Tools, Sir Edward Watkins, Bart.,M.P., Miss Mary Moore.

17. Mat 1889, contains : Madame Patti, Mr. Thomas Hardy, The Bishop of Ripon.

CASES for binding the YearlyJVolumes, is. 6d. each.

The Volume for 1888 is now ready, in crimson cloth, and with
gilt edges, 42.

Richard BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street, London.

Ikc7i Work can be had separately, price 6., 0} all Booksellers
in ToTvn or Country.

By ROSA N. CAREY.

ONLY THE GOVERNESS, i Uncle MAX.
NELLIE'S MEMORIES. , WEE WTPIE.

NOT LIKE OTHER j wOOED AND MARRIED.

GIRLS. !

ROBERT ORD'S Atone 1 BARBARA heathen.

COTE'S TRIAL.

Queene's WHIM.

By JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

THE * FIRST VIOLIN.' | KITH AND KIN.

BORDERLAND. PROBATION.

Healer. THE WELLFTELDS.

By HAWLEY SMART.

Breeze LANGTON.

By W. E. NORRIS.
A BACHELOR'S BLUNDER.
MAJOR AND MINOR. | Thirty HALL.
THE ROGUE.

By MARIE CORELLI.

A ROMANCE OF TWO I VENDETTA.
WORLDS. THELMA.

By MPS. PARR.
ATtAM AND EVE. I DOROTHY FOX.

VOL. III. X

Mich Work can he had separately, ijrice 6., of all Booksellers
in Town or Country.

By RHODA Boughton.

Cometh UP AS A

FLOWER.
DOCTOR Cupid.'

Good-bye, Sweetheart
!

JOAN.

NANCY.

NOT WISELY BUT TOO

WELL.
RED AS A ROSE IS SHE.
SECOND Thoughts.
BELINDA.

By Mrs. ALEXANDER.

THE WOOING O'T.
LOOK BEFORE YOU

LEAP.
HER DEAREST FOE.

THE ADMIRAL'S WARD.
THE EXECUTOR.
THE Frees.
WHICH SHALL IT BE?

By Mrs. ANNIE Edwards.
A GIRTON GIRL. | LEAH : a Woman ofjFashion.

A BALL-ROOM Repent 1 OUGHT WE TO VISIT
ANCE. : i HER?

By 'mrs. Liddell.
GEORGE Leith OF FEN I Berne BOYLE.

COURT. I SUSAN DRUMMOND.

By FRANCES M. Heard.

NEAR NEIGHBOURS.

ANONYMOUS.
THE LAST OF THE CAVALIERS.

Bach Work can be had separately, price 6*., of all Booksellers
in ToTvn or Country.

By HELEN Matters.
OOMIN' THRO' THE RYE. ; SAM'S SWEETHEART.

By the Hon. LEWIS WINGFIELD.
LADY Grizzly

J. SHERIDAN LE Fan.
UNCLE SIT A3. THE HOUSE BY THE

IN A GLASS DARKLY. ' ' CHURCHYARD.

By MARCUS CLARKE.
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL Like.

By Lady G. FULLERTON.

TOO STRANGE NOT TO , ELLEN Middleton.
BE TRUE. LADYBIRD.

By Baroness TAUTPHCEUS.'
THE Initials. | QUITS !

By Mrs. CAMPBELL Prayed.

POLICY AND PASSION.

By CHARLES READE.
A PERILOUS SECRET.

By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

THE THREE CLERKS.

Each Work can he lead separately, thrice 65., of all Booksellers
in Town or Country.

By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY.

MISUNDERSTOOD. | Seaports.

THROWN TOGETHER.

By JANE AUSTEN.

(the only Complete Edition, besides the Stevenson Edition, at 63.)

EMMA.

liADY SUSAN, and THE

Watson.;
MANSFIELD PARK.

NORTHANGER ABBEY,

and PERSUASION.
PRIDE and Prejudice.
SENSE & SENSIBILITY.

By Mrs. Motley.
OLIVE VARCOE.

By W. CLARK RUSSELL.
AN OCEAN FREE TiANOE.

By HECTOR Malt,

NO RELATIONS. (With Illustrations.)

By Mrs. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN.
A SISTER'S STORY.

By E. WERNER.

FICKLE FORTUNE.
NO SURRENDER.

SUCCESS : and how he won it,
UNDER A CHARM.
