Prologue.

The hiisli of twilight was falling upon
the rugged mountains and deep ravines
of Santa Maura, a lonely hamlet on the
Corsican coast ; bird-notes were dying under
it ; the whirr and stir of summer insect life
growing faint ; even the wash and swirl of
the Mediterranean sounded dreamy and faraway
under the spell of the "silent-footed
Angel-herald of the night." He beckoned
to the great, gloomy forests of pine and
cork, and they sent forth their shadows in
troops and squadrons ; laid his soft, dull

VOL. I. B

hand on the heavy odours of magnolia and
myrtle, and they poised in mid-air, knowing
that heaven's gates were shut against them ;
he drew his veil of mist from east to west
across the stormily-purple sky, and the
smirch of tawny orange, which marked where
a great, golden sun had blazed itself out,
was seen no more ; touched with his finger
of mystery the figure of a woman descending
a mountain path straight into the heart of
a ravine, and lo ! she stood transfigured
into the likeness of a ghostly visitant from
the kingdom of Hades.

That woman mio'ht have been Astarte

o

herself for the silent grace of her movements
and the dead whiteness of her face,
which showed as if moon-washed from out
the surrounding' dimness.

o

In the ravine into which she was descending,
Night was following hard and
fast on the *' angel-herald's " step to claim

his own. The mountains rose more gaunt,
more drear, more black with every downward
step the woman took, until, at length,
they seemed literally to pierce the vaporous
gray sky with their peaks and turrets.

High over one of the highest of these
peaks there shone out through the vapour
one" star of intense metallic brightness ; at
the immediate base of this rock, lowered
amid olives and vines, stood a small
country house, a stone-built chalet, surrounded
by a narrow strip of garden.

The woman was making her way straight
for this chalet. At its garden-gate she
paused for a moment, looking right and
left and in all directions, as if to make
sure that her movements were unseen. Unheard
they must, have been ; not ghostly
fingers themselves could have unlatched
that gate more noiselessly, nor ghostly feet
have trodden with a lighter footfall that

garden path, which, winding in and out
among arbutus-trees and myrtles, led to the
creeper-covered porch of the house. Under
this porch had been placed a small table
and a rustic reclining seat. On this seat
lay a man, locked in heavy slumber.

He was about thirty years of age, and of
remarkably handsome appearance, swarthy,
mustachioed, and with waves of black,
curly hair sweeping across his forehead.
His arm pillowed his head. On the ground
at his feet, as if carelessly tossed on one
side, lay a broad-brimmed hat. On the
small table beside him stood a glass about
three-parts filled with wine.

This way, that way, all ways the woman
looked hurriedly, furtively, with every step
she took. Not a sound broke the stillness ;
not a leaf rustled, nor belated insect flitted.
She stood within a hand's breadth of the
man now ; she held in her breath ; then,

slowly, cautiously drawing from beneath
her cloak a small phial, she poured its
contents noiselessly into the glass of wine.

As she drained the last drop into the
glass, she chanced to lift her eyes to the
door of the house. It stood wide open,
disclosing a stove-place filled with flowering
plants, over which, against the wall, hung
a large, square mirror.

In that mirror, as the woman lifted her
eyes, she could see darkly reflected the
whole shadow' garden-picture. She could
see, also, her own white face, and white
hand which held the small phial.

When I marry again," said young Mrs.
Cohen, with cheeks something the colour
of field poppies, and eyes that flashed like
diamonds under lamplight, ''I shall marry
a boy  years younger than I ! "

*' Quite so," assented her companion, a
young man who leaned over the piano at
which she was seated; 'rit is absurd for
women to marry men older than themselves
! "

And it is very ridiculous of you," con
tinned the lady, " to imagine because I
like to to "

Squabble ? " suggested the gentleman.

'have a little fun with you now and

you."

** My dear Madge, I never for a moment
imagined anything of the sort. I took
your last 'No' as final six months ago."

Every one knows that you are years 
years  years too old for me."

"Oh yes, years, years, years too old. I
am the whole of three years and three-quarters
older than you are."

"Every one knows that we haven't the
faintest liking for each other."

Exactly. Every one knows," mimicked
the young man, " that we can't be ten
minutes in the same room without quarrelling."


In fact," continued the lady with
heightening voice as well as colour, "weare
getting positively to detest each other."

The wonder is that we are ever to be
found in each other's company."

"I am positive," cried ]Mrs. Cohen,
jumping up from her music-stool, 'that
it was you who said that ' the library was
getting confoundedly hot ; ' yes, those were
your very words, and you must ' get out of
it.' "

*' I am confident it was you who looked
over your shoulder  at me  and said, ' I
am going into the music-room to practise,
and '"

'eyes," interrupted the lady, "that was
because I saw Sir Peter looking at me, and
I knew how delighted he would be if we
crept out of the room together for all the
world as if we "

Were bent on spooning ? "

And it's of no use your standing: there
agreeing with me, as if I didn't know what
I was talking about, or didn't mean what
I said. I repeat, when I marry again, I
will marry a boy if I like."

Why not ? How would you like a
nice little middy, about fourteen ? "

"He shan't be a day over twenty at any
rate, and he shall be obedient and tractable,
and ril call him ' my child "

"Ah, he'll like that ! "

And I'll tell him where to get his
clothes aud what cigars to buy ! "

He'll be sure to buy them, won't he ?
Look here, Madge, let's give over squabbling,
and strike a bargain. I'll engage to
look out for this amiable young gentleman,
who'll buy his clothes and cigars where his
wife tells him, if you'll undertake to marry
him as soon as he's found. I can't say
more, can I ? "

Madge made no reply. She seated
herself at the piano once more, struck a
chord, ran off a little prelude, and then
commenced singing her scales at a very
high pitch.

Her voice was a mezzo-soprano, and her
high A was a very high A indeed.

Here is the portrait of jars. Cohen as
she sits at her piano.

Age, twenty-four years. Figure, small
and slight. Eyes, hazel-green and deep-seated.
Eye-brows, dark and arched  the
best feature in her face. Nose, inclined
to the classic, but nothing remarkable.
Mouth, small and sensitive. Complexion,
decidedly sallow, but flushing readily under
excitement. Hair, dark brown, cut short,
thick and curly.

'* Youno Mrs. Cohen would be nothings
without her curls," once Madge had heard
a dowager say as she left a ball-room. Since
then she had diligently cultivated her curls
as her one strong weapon in her armoury of
charms  an armoury, by the way, of which
she had not a very exalted opinion.

I think sou are a remarkably plain

young woman. It is a positive trial to be
confronted with you so many times a day,"
she was in the habit of saying when she
looked at herself in her mirror.

And here is the portrait of Lancelot
Clive, the young man who stood for a
moment listening to the scales and then
walked away saying to himself: 'not
soft, gentle, and low,' to-day, at any
rate ! "

Age, close upon eight-and-twenty. Good
height, well-developed chest. Eyes, bright
blue, sparkling and fun-loving. Hair,
golden brown, irrepressibly curly, no
matter how short it might be cropped, and
a complexion bronzed by constant outdoor
exercise.

Madge half-turned her head as her companion
left the room ; but she in no wise
lowered the pitch of her A. Madge's vocal
scales were a wonderful outlet for her superfluous

energy. She had recommenced
taking sinsfino lessons within a week of her
marriage with old David Cohen, the retired
diamond merchant ; had dropped them
in the early days of her widowhood,
but had resumed them with surprising-vigour
during the present year, when she
had once more taken up her abode in the
home of her girlhood.

Selling herself for a diamond necklace,"
had been Lance's summing up of the
marriage, to which he had received a hasty
summons, while pursuing his studies at
Oxford. A summons, by the way, to
which he did not see fit to respond.

"Doing what is expected of me as Sir
Peter's prot(/6%  keeping Lance from
making himself ridiculous and blighting
his prospects in life," had been Madge's
version of the case to her own heart, as
she stood before the altar vowing to " love.

honour, and obey " a man old enough to
be her grandfather, and whose highest
conception of happiness was an interval of
freedom from gout, which enabled him to
'' read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest "
the money article in the daily paper.

Madge was in the very middle of a
voluminous shake on her high A when
the door behind her opened, and admitted
a small, plump old gentleman, who looked
as if he were in a very great hurry indeed.

There was something in the mere turn
of the handle which made Madge say to
herself: "It's Sir Peter," and stop her
sino[ino at once.

Madge," said the old - gentleman,
where is Lady Judith ? " But he did
not wait for an answer. He had crossed
the room and had gone out by another
door before Madge could open her lips.

She did not, however, recommence her

singing ; she knew by experience that he
would soon come back again with possibly
another question.

He did so come back ; this time entering
by one of the long French windows of the
room, and his question now was :

'* Where is Lance ?  can't find anybody
this morning, and I've so many
things to get through, I don't know
which way to turn ; " and then he disappeared
again.

This small, plump old gentleman was
Sir Peter Critchett, sixth Baronet of that
name, of Upton Castle, in the County of
Cumberland. His plumpness was a remarkable
fact if the extraordinary activity
of his habits were taken into account.
Except at meal-times, he was never still.

* He's a fortune to me in boots," Sir
Peter's London boot maker was wont to
affirm, as he packed up the hist of the

twenty-five pairs he was in the habit of
sending yearly to Upton Castle.

And " He pays the salary of my Iiead
man in the carpets he wears out," said the
upholsterer, recollecting the number of
times that he had been called upon to
renew the library carpet in Sir Peter's town
and country houses.

Cruikshank would have delighted in
sketching Sir Peter's plump, placid face,
separated from his bald head by a ridge of
stiff, grayish hair, which radiated in hard
lines backward from his temples.

Lance had often tried to rival Cruikshank
on the backs of old envelopes and magazine
covers. Once, in the very middle of dressing
for dinner, he had snatched up his hair-brush,
and with pen and ink had sketched on its
ivory back two very round eyes over-arched
by two very astonished-looking eyebrows, a
short nose  a mark of exclamation expressed

it exactly  an innocent-looking little mouth,
and no chin to speak of. Then, holding
the brush sideways to his view, he had
discovered what had inspired the idea,
namely, the long, stiff hair-bristles which
framed the portrait precisely as the stiff,
radiating lines of grayish hair framed the
original.

By that perverse ruling of fate which so
frequently sends people on the scene at the
exact moment that their presence is least
welcome, Sir Peter had entered Lance's
dressing-room just as he had laid down his
hair-brush.

What's this  a picture ? '' asked the
old gentleman, taking up the brush and
holding it this way, that way, all ways, so
as to get a good view of the sketch.

Lance's presence of mind did not desert
him. "It's a kindergarten brush," he
replied without moving a muscle. " It s

intended to make children  boys that is 
fond of brushing their hair. You can get
lots of them at the corner of Oxford
Street."

Not alone in face and feature was Sir
Peter remarkable. Fancy a child, with its
insatiable love of new toys, its perpetual
rebellion against " routine," its hatred of
instruction, and lack of experience, suddenly
transferred from pinafore to coattails,
and transported from its nursery to
the society of grown-up men and women !
Such an one might have figured as Sir
Peter's prototype in Nature's workshop.

'* He is the Prince of Pierrot-some one
with an eye for character had once said of
him. " His loroteges and his schemes of
benevolence are marbles and peg-tops to
him."

Sir Peter rejoiced in an extensive and
well-earned reputation for philanthropy.

VOL. I.

People were in the habit of coming from
all parts of the country to lay before him
their divers schemes of charity, and to
beseech his patronage for them.

It must be admitted, however, that such
beneficent schemes as succeeded in winning
his favourable notice, occasionally went
into his hands very big and came out of
them very small. For instance, a gigantic
plan for rescuing from the gutter every
little street Arab in London would result
in the importation into the Castle gardens
or stables of some unkempt, untaught
little urchin, who, in the process of his
civilisation, would drive head-gardener or
groom nearly frantic. And a big scheme
for educating the orphan daughters of
clergymen of the Established Church resolved
itself, in the person of Madge Cohen
then Madge Grant  into the transference
of one little forlorn maiden from a scene

of poverty into the luxurious lime-circle
of Upton Castle.

The forlorn little orphan was now a rich
woman, thanks to her marriage with old
David Cohen. She had her town house,
and her country house, her horses, and her
diamonds But for all that Sir Peter did
not feel inclined to wash his hands of her.
No ! Just as he had chosen her first husband
for her, so was he now desirous of choosing
second ; and it seemed to him, that a
better could not be found than Lancelot
Clive, the son of his old friend, Colonel
Clive, and his own adopted son and reputed
heir.

Among his many schemes of benevolence,
this held the first place ; and from morning
till night his energies were concentrated
upon the endeavour to bring about a
marriage between these young people, an
event which there was every reason toc

2

believe would have come about in the
natural order of thino-.s, if he could but
have been content to let matters take their
course.

''If he would but let us alone," Madge
sighed, as now for the third time Sir Peter
entered the room, and paraphrased his
former question somewhat as follows :

What is Lance thinking of, eh, Madge,
to leave you to your own devices in this
fashion ? Has Lady Judith carried him
off to her farm to help her count her latest
brood of Brahmapootras  eh ? "

Madge, not having yet got her breath
back after her late passage-farms with
Lance, would have liked to answer :

I haven't the remotest notion where
Lance is, and if he never comes near me
again to the end of time I shan't care ."


That she did not so answer was entirely

owing to the fact that whatever else she
might forget, one thing she always remembered,
namely, that once she had been
Madge Grant, a poor little waif, and dependent
upon Sir Peter's bounty.

So she answered composedly, as if she
enjoyed being catechised in this personal
fashion :

"Lance is, I dare say, in the gun-room,
looking over his fowling-pieces, and Lady
Judith is not at her farm. I heard her
half an hour ago tell your new secretary
that she wished to speak to him in the
morning-room."

And then she went back to her scales,
sighing once more :

'* If he would but believe that the world
could get on without him ! "

By a coincidence, the very same words
were at that moment on Lady Judith's
lips as she sat in her pretty morning-room.

engaged in conversation with the gentleman
who had only the day before been installed
as private secretary to Sir Peter.

Yet, conversation is scarcely the proper
word to denote talk in which, as the Irishman
said, "the reciprocity was all on one
side." For Lady Judith was all but stone
deaf, and the private secretary, after one
or two vain efforts at assent or demur,
had yielded to circumstances, and now
stood a patient listener to her energetic
harano-ue.

o

Lady Judith was a woman of between
fifty and sixty years of age, and her gait
and dress expressed every one of those
years in uncompromising severity. She
had a supreme contempt for those who
sought by the arts of the toilet or graces
of manner to negotiate a truce between
middle life and old age. Her one pleasure
in life was the management of her home

farm, her one duty  from her point of
view that is  to play the part of cog to
the household wheels which Sir Peter kept
in perpetual motion. In face, she was
florid and large-featured ; in figure, tall
and stout.

She towered a good three inches over
the person she was addressing  a small,
spare man of about fifty, gray-haired and
whiskered, with expressionless features
and eyes that looked out of such narrow
slits that it was impossible to tell what
colour they were.

She had risen from her chair in the
course of her oration, and now, fan in
hand, stood rounding her periods with
sustained vigour.

Her fan was an absolute necessity to
her; once set upon *' conversation " she
never failed to talk herself hot and red in
the face. She wielded that fan in no

dainty, coquettish fashion. In her hands
it suggested the whirring arms of a windmill
on a breezy height.

I suffer so from the heat," she parenthetically
informed the private secretary,
announcing a fact that must have been
evident to the most careless observer.

Then she went back to the main subject
of her discourse.

"This talk between us is entirely confidential,
Mr. Stubbs," she said, speaking
in a high key as if she were addressing
some one on top of a church steeple. " Sir
Peter has the kindest heart in the world,
and a very wide reputation for benevolence.
Entre nous, I should not be at all sorry
if his reputation could be curtailed  this is
quite in confidence, you understand  and
it occurs to me that by the exercise of a
little judgment and discretion oh your
part  an occasional word put in now and

then, do you see  the multitudinous outlets
for his benevolence might be reduced in
number. Of course, you will have to use
great tact ; entre nous, Mr. Stubbs, Sir
Peter is a trifle obstinate when once he
takes a thing into his head. Your predecessor
was a man without tact, and a little
too fond of hearing himself talk ; and, of
course, quickly got his dismissaL Yell,
as I was saying, Mr. Stubbs  but this is
quite confidential  Sir Peter has the
kindest heart imaginable, but if he could
only be made to understand that * the

world could get on without him " she

broke off abruptly, asking the question :

"What is the matter  toothache?" as
an expression of agony passed over Mr.
Stubbs's face.

It was not to be wondered at that Mr.
Stubbs should have exhibited a change of
feature, for, all unknown to the lady, the

door behind her had opened, and Sir Peter
himself had entered the room, and stood
listening to her discourse.

It was matter for congratulation that at
that moment a diversion was effected balance
dashing into the room in hot haste,
and whispering something into Sir Peter's
ear with many a furtive look at Lady
Judith.

Mr. Stubbs, being blessed with quick
hearing, caught the words :

"Accident on the rails below Lower
Upton ! Come along at once ! Pve had
the cart brought round. There'll be lots
for you to do."

Upton Castle stood Iiio-h amono- the
Cumberland hills, some nine hundred feet
above the sea level. Above its gray stonewalls
the Cuddaw Fell rose in sharp
grandeur another nine hundred feet, belittling
with its sweeping curves and
massive cross the strong-hold beneath,
which once had held its own with the
best of border fortresses, and which successive
masters with big purses and
luxurious tastes had adapted to the exigencies
of modern requirements.

"The mountain belongs to us'' Lance
used occasionally to say, looking upward
with a measuring eye from the top of

Sir Peter's bald licad to the cloud-capped
Fell. " Or we belong to it," he would
add as an afterthought. 'Tm not quite
sure that isn't a better way of putting

it."

Had any one asked Lancelot Clive, at
this period of his career, to put his notions
concerning the whole duty of man into a
nutshell, he would have replied without a
moment's hesitation, " Get as much fun out
of everything as you possibly can."

He had a free and easy way of treating
the elderly Sir Peter, which at times
Madge wondered over, and at times she
envied. But then he was a irotcgc of a
different stamp to what she had been.
His mother, who had died at his birth,
had been a Critchett, and his father had
been Sic Peter's oldest friend. When
Colonel Clive had died suddenly of fever
in India, it seemed the most natural thing

in the world for Sir Peter to continue
the orphan lad's education, and, when
Eton and Oxford were said good-bye toto
instal him at Upton as his adopted
son and heir.

'the young fellow was born to good
luck," everybody said, although at the
same time they were willing enough to
admit that things must have been very
different with him had Gervase Critchett
lived, or had a son.

Gervase Critchett had been Sir Peter's
only brother, who, as a young man, had
been seized with a sudden desire for wild
life in the Mayest. In pursuance of this
idea he had gone out to Mexico, had
bought a ranch there and had been
killed, there was every reason to believe,
in one of the numerous, unreasoning
insurrections which the history of that
country records.

Lance was a thoroughly genial, good-hearted
youijg fellow. He had a lofty
way of patronising everybody and everything
that came in his way which might
have been irritations or amusing, as the
case might be, if it had been less genially
or unconsciously extended. '' Uncle Punch
and Aunt Judy " had been his schoolboy
nicknames for Sir Peter and Lady Judith
herself, by the way, an Earl's daughter.
It was a misfortune for Sir Peter that his
wife owned to the Christian name of Judith,
it so forcibly suggested the characteristic
sobriquet for her husband.

In the same lofty, patronising fashion.
Lance would speak of the old Castle as
"the dungeon," or "the jail," or more
frequently still as the " whited sepulchre,"
tolerable for three weeks at a time, insupportable
for a fourth."

It was the gray of the mountain-side

which suowstecl the last unfortunate simile.
Seen in the glint and glare of a noonday
sun on a summer's day, the old Castle stood
out in hard, staring whiteness against the
graduated gray of the rocks so tenderly
laid on by Nature's practised hand.

But when the summer's sun had sunk
behind the Cuddaws, and the red, sunset
flames had died out of its windows, the
old house seemed to shrink into the
mountain-side, and become part and parcel
of the shadowy crags. Purple then became
the keynote of colour of the Whole landscape.


An artist sketching it might have done
without his reds and yellows, but his purple
he must have had, or his picture would
have lacked that subtle yet everywhere-present
charm of mystery, which only the
shadowy purple could impart. There it
was, deepening the gray of the mountain.

the .silver of the overhanging mist, flashing
darkly out of the sheen of the distant lake,
clouding the blue of the thickset pine-wood,
and finding; its focus in the foreground
of the picture in the luxurious heather
which spread itself in straggling patches
over hillside and valley.

That valley seemed to stretch away into
a limitless distance, until it kissed the
horizon. Lower Upton, Vvith its new
railway station and few scattered cottages,
lay hidden somewhere among its copses.

Lower Upton was about seven miles
distant from the Castle *' as the crow flies,"
but a good nine miles if the windings of a
steep, rocky road be taken into account.
That was a nasty bit of road, especially at
midday' under a scorching sun, with Uncle
Peter "in good form," as Lance was apt to
phrase it, on the box seat.

Uncle Peter " was in uncommonly

good form " on the morning when he and
Lance set off together for the scene of the
railway disaster ; that is to say, he made
the nasty bit of road seem double its length
with an incessant flow of interruptions, or
rather what would have been such if Lance
had not been wary.

Lance," said the old gentleman so soon
as they were outside the Castle gates, " it
has only just struck me that we might
have sent a man on to Carstairs to tell
the doctors there. Of course, old Brough-ton
will be on the spot, but he may want
additional help. We had better turn back
and leave a message."

'' All right ! " said Lance, touching up
his horses, not turning their heads, *' we'll
leave a message for Aunt Judy at the
keeper's cottage as we go along."

A message was left at the keeper's
cottage, and Lance rattled along over the

VOL. I. D

flinty road for another half-mile. Then a
second idea " struck " Sir Peter.

*' It has just occurred to me, Lance." he
said, with a sudden start that would have
shaken the nerves of a timorous "whip,"
** that it would have been as well to have
left word for the wagonette to be sent
down after us ; it might serve instead of an
ambulance. Just turn the horses' heads. It's
only a question of a quarter of an hour."

"Ah, that will do at the next cottage 
Survey, the mole-catcher's. We'll send a
message back by one of his small boys,"
answered Lance calmly as before, and again
whipping up his horses.

Then Sir Peter had cramp first in one
leg, then in the other, and insisted upon
getting down to *' walk it off."

Finally, within half a mile of Lower
Upton, his third and last "idea" struck him.

I do think, Lance," he said, getting

more and more cheery as they neared the
scone where he supposed his energies
would be called into requisition, "it
would have been a good idea to have told
them to send down with the wagonette
something that could be converted into an
ambulance  wonder it didn't occur to you
when you left the message at Survey's.
The sufferers may be too much injured to
stand the jolting of "

Here Lance pulled up sharply. " Ho,
there 1 " he shouted to a man who chanced
to be coming along with a cart of hay.

"Who-a, my lass," said the man to his
horse, and stood at attention.

**Youre going up the Cuddaw Road, I
suppose ? " queried Lance. '' Well, you'll
meet Sir Peter's wagonette coming down.
Tell the man to turn back, take the doors
off the stables, and bring them along with
him  they're wanted for ambulances."

D 2

'' No, no ! " shouted Sir Peter. " There
are plenty of hurdles down at the farm.
Are you out of your mind, Lance ! Do you
hear, my man, hurdles from the farm."

But it was exceedingly doubtful whether
the man heard him, for Lance had once
more touched up his horses, vowing that
unless they put speed on, they might as
well turn back at once. Then he drew a
fancy picture of the scene of disaster,
which, possibly, the railway station presented
; of wrecked carriages lying along
the line, sufferers in various stages of
mutilation stretched on the platform
awaiting succour.

Sir Peter subsided into tranquillity, as
Lance knew he would, before the prospect
of so vast a field for his energies. He
buttoned up his coat, so as to be tight and
trim, and ready for action.

If I were you I would let your shirt-sleeves

alone," said Lance, noticing a side
glance which the old gentleman gave to his
wristbands.

Sir Peter looked like a naughty child
forestalled in some mischievous idea.

But we'll take our rugs with us,
Lance," he said, 'they'll be sure to come
in useful one way or another."

But alas for Sir Peter s forethought and
prognostication ! The little railway station
presented its usual picture of rustic quietude
as Lance drew rein at it.

The station - master came forward to
reply to Sir Peter s queries. The accident,
he explained, had occurred five miles down
the line. A number of coal trucks had
been overturned through the breaking of
some coupling irons, and, as the line could
not be cleared before night, all traffic
through Lower Upton was stopped for that
day.

*the worst damage," he went on to
say, " was the inconvenience that passengers
travelling North had been put to.
They had been compelled to alight at
Lower Upton, and had had the choice
offered them of remaining there for another
twenty-four hours, or, of travelling back
twenty-five miles of their road to Carstairs,
whence they could travel North by various
routes. Most of the passengers had adopted
the latter course  all in fact except one 
a young lady," here he glanced towards
the waiting-room of the station, " who
appeared to be greatly annoyed at the delay
to her journey, and who seemed unable to
make up her mind what to do. She spoke
with a foreign accent," the man farther
stated, " and he was not sure whether she
thoroughly understood his explanation of
how easily her journey might be continued
by travelling back twenty-five miles."

"Capital!" said Lance, "there's something
for you to do after all, Uncle Peter.
Of course we're bound to offer our services
to the young lady. We can drive her anywhere
she would like within twenty miles,
or take her to the Castle for the night and
brings her back in the morning: when the
line's clear. ' Greatly annoyed,' ' foreign
accent.' Why, I'm beginning to feel like
Don Quixote already. Come along."

They went into the waiting-room to see
a tall, slight young lady standing therewith
a small portmanteau at her feet. She
wore a long gray travelling cloak which
reached to the hem of her dress, a gray
beaver hat, and gray gossamer veil which
entirely hid her features.

The hot afternoon began to wane. Lady
Judith and Madge drank their tea out of
doors under a spreading cedar, which made
a shady nook on the lawn. Madge brought
out a writing-folio with her, thinking it
possible that Lady Judith might fan herself
to sleep, as she often did on a summer's
afternoon, and thus give her the opportunity
of getting through a little of her
correspondence.

Lady Judith, however, was not disposed
for sleep, but for ** conversation," in her
sense of the word, that is. The number
and variety of topics she touched upon
while she and Madge stirred their tea, suggested

a comprehensiveness of knowledge
that would have done credit to the compiler
of "Enquire Within Upon Everything."


Madge, a well-seasoned listener, leaned
back in her rocking-chair, indulging in her
own train of thought under cover of an
occasional sympathetic remark, which Lady
Judith as often as not did not hear.

Sir Peter and his fads, as might be
expected, received the lion's share of the
lady's criticism ; thus :

** My dear, if it had not been for me
the Castle would long ago have been turned
into an orphanage or almshouse, or perhaps
into a lunatic asylum  though, for the
matter of that, it's half-way on the road to
one now at times, with the queer sorts of
people he brings into it." And so forth
for a good twenty minutes, with brief interludes
for fan or tea cup.

Lance and his misdoings next received,
as it were, a passing glance.

** Where is the use," she queried,
pathetically, *' of my saying to him as I do
every day of my life, ' Lance, do your best
to keep Sir Peter from making himself
ridiculous ' ? Or of his saying to me, as he
does every day of his life, ' Aunt Judith, I
ceo to bed at nights with Uncle Peter on
my mind, I get up in the morning with
him on my mind, and he is on my mind
all day long ' ? when he never so much as
lifts a little finger to keep him out of mischief.
My dear, it's my belief that that
young man looks upon life as nothing more
than a big jest from year's end to year's
end. He'd sell his soul any day of the
week, and think himself well paid if only
he could get a laugh out of the bargain."

The mere mention of Sir Peter's name
had been guarantee to Madge of close upon

half an hour for uninterrupted indulgence
of thought. During the recapitulation of
his offences she had been mentally concocting
an answer to a letter received from
her lawyers that morning, asking for instructions
on certain matters connected
with the Cohen property.

''Dear sirs," she had been writing in
intent, " I wish the bonds and deeds you
speak of were at the bottom of the sea.
Do just whatever you like about them.
And as for the house at Pedestal, it maybe
unlet to the end of time for anything I
care "

She had got so far, when Lance's name
high over her head, in Lady Judith's
falsetto, brought her letter writing to a
halt. For once in her life her ideas were
in unison with Lady Judith's.

Sell his soul for a laugh  yes, that
was Lance to the backbone," she said to

herself a little bitterly. " From morning
till night playing at life instead of living
it. Never in earnest  never even seeming
in earnest. If he had only seemed ever so
little in earnest six months back when he
had made her his offer of marriage, how
gladly she would have said * Yes 'to it,
instead of meeting it with the indignant
exclamation, ' Sir Peter told you to ask
me'" Then she drifted into cloudland
again, picturing a series of pleasant possibilities,
if Lance, for once in his life in
downright solemn earnest, were to come
to her and say: ** Madge, I forgive you
for doing what you were bidden and marrying
money-bags. I loved you then, I love
you now, I'll love you always." Ah ! how
gladly would she pour out those moneybags
at his feet ! What a heart's delight
the counting of her gold, the management
of the Cohen property, would be to her then.

And as for lawyers' letters, they might
come every day of her life, and be welcome
as love-letters, if only she had the privilege
of tossing them over to Lance, and saying :
You'll settle all that, won't you ? "

When her wing wearied and she came
down from cloudland, Lady Judith had
taken Mr. Stubbs, the new secretary, for
her text, and was descanting upon his qualifications,
or otherwise, for his duties.

It's my belief, my dear," she was saying
when Madge's sense of hearing came brick
to her, *That Sir Peter only engaged him
because he heard from the people who
recommended him at Carstairs  I forget
their name  that he had been unfortunate
in business matters all his life through.
He has been twice through the Bankruptcy
Court ; at one time he was a stockbroker ;
then he turned lawyer's clerk ; then he
went into a newspaper office at Liverpool ;

after that into an auctioneer's office ; and
after that  after that," this repeated with
a contemptuous emphasis, '' he comes to
Upton Castle, and acts as private secretary
to Sir Peter ! " Here Lady Judith
paused to fan herself, and to get breath to
go on again.

** He wouldn't be so bad-looking if only
he would open his eyes wider," said Madge,
feeling she was expected to say something.
"As it is, it makes me sleepy to look at
him."

Lady Judith only caught a part of her
sentence, and characteristically understood
it to refer to Sir Peter.

'* Open his eyes a little wider ! " she
exclaimed, shrilly. *' I wish to goodness
he would! He would see then how people
impose upon him, and lay traps for him to
walk into, and then make fan of him
behind his back. But there  one might

as well tell a blind man not to run
his head against a post as tell Sir Peter
to open his eyes and look an inch in front
of him."

They had now travelled in a circle back
to their starting point  Sir Peter, and his
delinquencies. Madge mechanically returned
to her unanswered lawyers' letter. " I don't
care two straws," her thoughts resumed,
'' whether the house at Pedestal is let
or unlet, or whether the farmers are paying

half-rents or whole rents " Shehad-sfot

so far when the sound of wheels coming slowly
up the steep drive, which led through the
grounds to the Castle, made her look upto
see Lance in the distance, waving to her
from his hiojh dog-cart.

She looked and looked again. Was that
Sir Peter seated behind ? Where was the
groom, then, and who was that, all in gray,
seated beside Lance on the box-seat ? were

the questions which rapidly presented themselves
to her for an answer.

Evidently they suggested themselves to
Lady Judith also, for she broke off abruptly,
shaded her eyes with her hands, and inquired:
*whom have they brought back
with them ? Can you see, my dear ? "

Madge shook her head. " Another
protegee, I dare say," she answered. But
the way in which she spoke the word
 'protegee'' was a protest against her use of
it. The emphasis she laid on "another"
seemed to say : " I least of any one in the
world ought to throw stones from out
my glass-house."

Sir Peter, in spite of his short legs,
was out of the cart before Lance. He
crossed the lawn towards the ladies in a
very great hurry, while Lance followed at
a more leisurely pace, accompanied by the
young lady in gray  Madge could see

that she was young, by the slimness of
her figure, and the grace of her walk.

He came up looking hot, and a little out
of breath. " My dear," he said, addressing
his wife, "you heard of the accident at
Lower Upton. The young lady we have
brought back with us had no chance of
continuing her journey to the North for
another twenty-four hours ; so I told her
you would be delighted to receive her
till "

Lady Judith arose from her seat erect
and stately.

"I want to know," she said in an
authoritative voice, " whether there are anymore
coming. I heard that the wagonette
had been ordered to follow."

Evidently she had had visions of the
wagonette returning packed with lame,
maimed, halt, or otherwise injured individuals.


VOL. I. E

"No, no, no," and Sir Peter shook his
head vigorously to emphasize his noes ;
only this young lady, I give you my
word. Let me introduce her to you."

A few steps behind him. Lance was presenting
the lady in gray to Madge.

Madoe had left her rocking or chair and the
shade of the spreading cedar, and stood in
the glare of the sunlight on the lawn.
Lance stood facing her, with the glint of
the sunshine on his curly hair, and its
gleam in his bright blue eye. Between
them stood the young lady, tall and
shadowy in her gray garments.

*' She came like a shadow between us ; I
felt my blood chilled," was the description
Madge gave of this meeting in after days.

At the moment, however, she merely
thought to herself:

"Why doesn't she lift her veil? Does
she intend suddenly to startle us with a

blaze of beauty ? or is it perhaps because,
like me, she isn't proud of her face, and
prefers keeping it hidden as much as
possible ? "

As if conscious of Madge's thought, the
young lady at that moment raised her veil,
and dared the unshadowed light of the
blazing summer sun.

Madge stood looking at her wonderingly.

The face that fronted her, albeit one
likely to attract an artist's pencil, was not
of a type easy to class. The features sofar
as nose, mouth, and chin went  though
fairly regular, were unpronounced ; the
complexion was of a dead, unvarying
white, which was doubly accentuated, first
by coral-red lips, next by black, straight
bars  not arches  of eyebrows, and a thick
band of black hair drawn straight across
her forehead. The eyes Madge could not
see, for the young lady kept her full white

\;&t""

lids downcast. It was a face whicli might
attract, and a face which might repulse,
according to circumstances ; but whatever
it might be, it was not a face to be seen
one moment and forgotten the next.

What a peculiar-looking young woman,"
thought Lady Judith, putting up her
eye-glass and staring at her uncompromisingly.


** Eh, I had no idea she was half so
handsome behind her veil," thought Sir
Peter, taking a steady survey.

She would make a grand Cleopatra
if her eyes are as black as her brows,"
thought Lance.

*she might sit for the portrait of Jael,
who drove the tent-peg through tired
Sisera's forehead," said Madge to herself,
as far off as ever from answering her
own question as to the young lady's
beauty.

Evidently she did not mind being
looked at, for her face showed not the
faintest sign of embarrassment.

But, whether intentionally or otherwise,
she avenged herself for Lady Judith's eyeglass.


** Is that your housekeeper ? '* she asked,
turning to Madge, and speaking in a slow,
deep voice, with an unmistakably foreign
accent.

As she spoke she lifted her full white
lids, and Lance saw not the black eyes
her hair gave promise of, but large dark-gray
ones.

How Sir Peter, at that moment, thanked
Heaven for his wife's deafness !

"That is Lady Judith Critchett," answered
Madge, stiffly.

What does she say ? " asked Lady
Judith, conscious that she was an object
of attention to the young lady.

That she is delighted to make your
acquaintance," said Lance, right into Lady
Judith's ear.

Ah, yes," said Sir Peter, drawing a
full breath of relief, "let me present you
to my wife. Miss  Miss Rosalie," he began,
hesitatingly.

'*Janc," corrected the young lady.

The incongruity of the name with the
face struck Madge.

Ah, yes. Miss Jane  Jane ? " went

on Sir Peter, interrogatively.

'jane Shore," answered the young lady.

The incongruity of the name seemed
to vanish at once.

The dressing-bell at that moment ranir
out its reminder. Madge thought it best
to end a>i ungracious situation graciously.

"If you will come with me," she said,
addressing Miss Shore, " I will show you
to your room, and send my maid to you."

"Thank you," was the reply, in slow,
halting phrases, which seemed to imply
that the English tongue was scarcely
mastered. " I will not trouble you to
send a maid. I have been travelling for
two whole days. Will you give me a
bed ? It is that I want, not dinner. I
am tired  nearly to death."

And the three last words were spoken
in a tone that set Lance's brain wondering,
his heart pitying.

How can you let him make himself so
ridiculous ? " asked Madge of Lance, after
dinner that night, as together they stood atone
of the long drawing-room windows,
watching the crimson after-glow fade from
the cloud-mountains in the sky, and the
night-blue slowly spreading athwart the
valley.

"Him! Who, what?" asked Lance,
starting as if suddenly aroused from a
reverie.

"Why, Sir Peter, of course. Why did
you let him bring an utter stranger into
the house in this way ? A word from you
would often prevent these foolish things,

yet you never speak that word," she said,
echoing Lady Judith's lament.

She spoke in low tones. That drawings
owned to four windows and three
doors, and there was no knowing but what
Sir Peter might enter by one of them at
any moment.

Lance shook himself free from his
thoughts.

*now I like that, Madge," he began,
laughingly. *' You know Uncle Peter as well
as I do  when once he has taken a notion
into his head, not the Lords, and the Commons,
and the whole bench of Bishops combined,
would prevent him carrying it out."

It seemed as if the mantle of Lady
Judith had temporarily fallen upon Madge's
shoulders  she was not to be mollified.
Lance's laugh, too, did not mend matters.

*' It would be bad enough," she went on,
"if you stood by and said nothing; but

when you absolutely carry him off to the
scene of a railway accident for the whole
and sole purpose of "

Giving him something to do," finished
Lance. " My dear Madge, I wonder how
many times in your life you have said tome,
' Give him something to do or he'll
drive us all mad "

Yes, but not such a something as this.
If you must bring people into the house,
bring men whom you can entertain, not
women who will be left on our hands."

Lance eyed her curiously. Madge seemed
more disturbed than so trifling an incident
warranted.

Again he tried to laugh the matter off.
You don't mean to say you're hard-hearted
enough to wish we had left this poor girl
to sleep at the railway station ? You know
there's not an inn even at Lower Upton
at which a lady could put up."

Why didn't she go on with the other
passengers to Carstairs ? There were more
people than she, I expect, who came down
by her train."

She hadn't made up her mind what todo
when Uncle Peter and I drove up on
the look-out for "

*' Forlorn, beautiful young women," finished
Madge, sarcastically''

Exactly. And finding what we went
out to seek, what could we do but "

She is not beautiful," interrupted Madge,
vehemently. 'her face has a history
written on it, and it is not a good one."

But even as she said the words the
thought in her heart was : " I would give
all the Cohen diamonds and every penny I
have in the world to have such a face."

Lance put on a serio-comic expression.

*' Ah ! every one knows, Madge, that
you never mean one-half you say," he said.

as thoroughly bent on teasing as if he were
a schoolboy and Madge a screaming, refractory
parrot.

I mean every word I say ; and I repeat,
her face is an evil one and repulses me.
Somehow it makes me think of midnight
bridges and dark rivers, and "

But at this moment a door opened, and
Sir Peter entered. He stood for a moment
looking about him.

There was Lady Judith, asleep in a low
chair, her head thrown back, her big fan
drooping from her hand, her face crimson
as usual. Evidently she had fanned herself
into the arms of Morpheus. There
were Madge and Lance whispering together
in the window recess, for all the world like
a pair of lovers.

Delightful ! " thought the kind-hearted
old gentleman. " Just as it should be ! Capital
match I Most suitable in every way ! "

And as he could not bring himself to
interrupt the love-making of the young
people, he crossed the room on tip-toes,
and went out by the opposite door.

Madge seemed instinctively conscious of
Sir Peter's thoughts.

*' Why did he run away like that ? " she
queried, plucking nervously at the posy
of yellow roses which she wore in her
waistband.

* He'll be back again in another minute,"
said Lance, composedly.

And sure enough back again he came.

This time through the window, the third
from the one at which Lance and Madge
were standing.

Don't disturb yourselves," he said,
standing in front of the two and falling
into a backward and forward heel and
toe motion he frequently adopted, and
which suggested the idea that he had suddenly

been put upon rockers. " Don't
disturb yourselves. I only came in fora
moment to say that  that "

He paused abruptly. Honestly he had
nothing to say. If he had spoken out
his thoughts he would have said : " The
house is horribly still ; it is time I set
some one or something stirring."

"That it was a fine even in gr" susforested
Lance.

"Ah, yes, a fine evening ! That was it.
And  and it was a disappointment our
o:uest couldn't sit down to dinner with us."
This was a sudden thought and he jumped
at it.

Madge here plucked so viciously at her
roses that two or three fell to the ground.

Lance picked them up and presented
them to her in the most lover-like attitude
he could command.

Sir Peter smiled benignly on him. *' Ah,

Gather your rosebuds while ye may.'
You know what the old soul says, eh ? "
Here he gave Lance a sly little dig in the
ribs, and forthwith vanished by another
window.

Madge turned sharply upon Lance.
' Why do you do it?" she queried, hotly.
** Why do you make believe and make him
think that that "

That  that " mimicked Lance.

**My dear Madge, all niy telling in the
world wouldn't convince Uncle Peter that
we were not desperately in love with each
other. You try your hand at telling him
and see what will come of it."

You tell him things as if you didn't
mean them  you ought to  to make him

understand that  that " Again she

broke off, and again Lance mimicked her.

That  that you haven't the faintest
liking in the world for me, that, perhaps,

you may marry a chimney-sweep tomorrow ;
but Lance Olive  never. "Well, I'll do my
best to make him understand."

I never said such a thing ; you've no
right to put words into my mouth," she
cried, vehemently; and then, as if fearful of
losing her self-control, she half-hid her face
in her yellow roses, and left the room.

*' If things could only have been different
five years ago ! " she said to herself as she
dosed the door behind her. ''If I had but
been free, as other girls, to choose or to
refuse ! "

Lance remained standing at the open
window. A half-amused expression flitted
across his face.

How ridiculous of Madge," he thought,
to lose her temper over a girl she has only
seen once in her life, and whom most
probably after tomorrow she'll never see
again ! "

Presently the half-amused expression on
his face gave way to a more thoughtful
look.

In spite of her ' No,' six months ago,"
he thought, *' I believe she has a faint liking
for me. I wonder if I asked her a second
time what answer I should get ! "

VOL. I. F

The wonder was one to entertain, not to
dismiss as a passing thought. So, with a
glance at the still peacefully-sleeping Lady
Judith, Lance took his cigar-case out of
his pocket and strolled through the French
window on to the outside terrace. The
evening air was cool and balmy. The
garden showed weird and mysterious under
the long night-shadows which were beginning
to troop forth from beneath the
trees and Castle walls.

Lance went strolling in leisurely fashion
along the dim paths, his thoughts as serene
and limpid as the dark stretch of summer
sky overhead. It did not require the
miserable rush light of a young man's
vanity, nor that stronger light which
experience of women's ways gives, to
read clearly Madge's apparently capricious
conduct, when once a steady attention was
accorded to it. She would be wooed for

herself, not for her wealth ; wooed, too, in
downright passionate earnest, not by a lukewarm
suitor edged on by a lively guardian.
This was what her alternate sweetness and
sourness, her petulance and playfulness
meant if they meant anything at all.

And after all, so Lance's thoughts
ambled, in leisurely time to his leisurely
steps, there was no reason why Madge
should not be thus wooed. Hers was a
sweet and attractive personality when once
one had learnt to pierce that outer armour
of caprice wherewith temperaments like hers,
rendered super-sensitive by circumstances,
frequently clothe themselves.

When Sir Peter had brought her, a shy
little maiden of twelve, to Upton Castle,
Lance had made a fine pet and plaything
of her. Later on, as she had developed into
the girl in her teens, he had been honestly
in love with her. Later on still, when

F 2

Sir Peter had taken her future in hand
and considered he had done a thoroughly
good day's work in marrying her to old
David Cohen, Lance had seen fit to indulge
in the bitterness of a rejected suitor, and
to anathematise her for a heartless flirt,
although at the same time he had gone
out of his way to convince " Uncle
Punch and Aunt Judy," and all the world
beside, that he and Madge had never been
more than brother and sister to each other.
During Madge's short married life he had
seen next to nothing of her ; but when,
on the death of her husband, she shut up
her town house, let her country house, and
came back to the home of her girlhood,
he was willing enough to listen to Sir
Peter's suoo-estion that " he and Masse
were made for each other," and to do his
best to obliterate from his recollection that
short period of her wedded life.

o o

in this dreamy half-light, he said to himself
that he did not wonder at the impetuous
No " it had received, considering what a
small amount of energy he had displayed
in the making of it. Doubtless it would
have met with a different reception if Sir
Peter had left him alone to make it in his
own fashion, instead of jogging his elbow,
as it were, morning, noon, and night, todo
at a rush a thing which could have
been far better accomplished by successive
steps.

Lance finished his cigar, but still lingered
out there among the shadows and heavy
flower - scents, indulging now in this
pleasant thought, now in that. The Castle
grounds wound downwards with many a
steep pathway right into the valley, where,
among the stalwart pines and drooping
larches, stood the keeper s cottage and the

home farm. It occurred to him that there
was something he particularly wished to
say to the gamekeeper about a bit of land
that was to be enclosed for cover that year ;
so, in spite of the growing dark, he decided
to make his way down to the cottage at
once, lest tomorrow's occupations might
once more sweep the matter from his
mind.

The shadows closed around him as he
descended the incline. Behind him lights
were beginning to show in the Castle
frontage through its trellis-screen of sycamore
and cedar. Overhead the smirched
gray of twilight had given place to the
sapphire-blue of a night-sky pierced with
a hundred thousand " star windows tolet
out heaven's lifht." His downward

o

path showed gray in front of him, dimly
tesselated with the faint shadows of the
planes and wild plum-trees which grew

at intervals on either side. Then for a
brief distance the path wound upward
again, with a wood on one side, and a
high thorn hedge on the other. Beyond
this hedge a bare brown upland rose,
treeless and shadowless.

A gap in the hedge, where the last hunt
had ridden through, framed for Lance a
bird's-eye view of this sterile waste. It
showed him something else beside the dry
stunted turf and a few scurrying rabbits 
the figure of a woman sharply outlined
against the night-sky. She half-sat, half-crouched,
with arms encircling her knees.
She wore no hat, her hair was tightly
coiled about her head, her face was upturned
to the heavens.

Lance was neither poet nor painter ; but
nevertheless the weirdness and mystic
beauty of the scene made itself felt. That
crouching sibyl-like attitude, the wildly

desolate surroundings, seemed to transport
him straight from the Cumberland hillside
to classic ground, peopled with the queen-prophetess
of ancient myth. If the
woman had suddenly tossed her arms on
high, and burst into some wild invocation,
it would have seemed all in keeping with
the ghostly scene.

But she did nothing of the sort. Instead,
as if conscious of his presence, she suddenly
turned her face towards him. Then Lance,
in utter amazement, recognised, by the
light of the stars, the pallid face and jet-black
hair of Miss Jane Shore.

He was through the hesse in a moment,
and in another was standing beside her . on
the shadowless waste.

"Miss Shore!" he exclaimed. ** What
are you  can you be doing out here at this
time of night ? "

The girl did not start nor move from

her crouching attitude. For one instant
her Large gray eyes were lifted to his face
with a hunted, forlorn look in them which
made his heart ache for her.

"Looking at the stars," she answered,
dreamily, absently. Then she let her gaze
sweep the sky once more.

There was no moon ; the bare upland on
which they stood showed, in the half light
made by the summer sky and myriad
stars, a ghostly patch from out the surrounding
gloom of dense hedges and
denser woods. The girl's upturned face
seemed more like some marble mask thana
thing which had life and could redden and
smile ; the black sweep of hair across her
forehead heightened its pallor into an
almost deathlike whiteness, while the
gray garments which clung to her showed
like so much dim shroud-like vapour from
which she was must cmeraino-.

An artist seeking an impersonation of a
fallen star, looking upward to its lost place
in the heavens, might have found his ideal
realised here.

Lance, in his young, robust flesh and
blood, felt himself in some sort out of
keeping with his environment.

For a moment he felt tongue-tied ; then,
as if to break a spell, he made his voice
to be heard.

If you are fond of star-gazing'' he said,
'you ought to go to St. Cuthbert's churchyard
 it stands on a promontory  you
can get a splendid view of the heavens
there, right away over the Irish Sea."

Treeless though this upland was, the
expanse of sky it commanded was comparatively
circumscribed, on one side by
the thick wood which stood on yet higher
ground, on the other by the majestic crags
and headlands of the Cuddaws.

Only the first part of his sentence seemed
to catch her ear.

"Fond of star-gazing," she repeated,
slowly. " Is one fond of gazing on the
faces of one's enemies ? The stars are my
enemies. I hate  hate them."

The last words were said with a vehemence
that left no room for doubt as to
their sincerity.

Lance tried to be comfortable and commonplace.
" Pardon me," he said, '' then
why do you come out here with nothing between
you and the sky, when you could so
easily, by drawing your curtains, shut out
the faces of your enemies ? "

She answered his question circuitously.
You ask your friend to tell you your
fortune ; he will say pleasant things to you 
he will lie to please you. You ask your
enemy; he will speak truth to you  the
stars cannot lie."

The effort with which she spoke the
English tongue was marked in this
sentence.

For all that, or rather in spite of all
that, I don't think I should feel disposed
to neglect the society of my friends for
that of my enemies," he answered, lightly,
but feeling all the time that his light words
were strangely out of place.

She turned her large luminous eyes full
on him. "What if you have no friends to
neglect ? " she asked, coldly, stonily, as one
might who had long been accustomed to
look the fact in the face.

If Lance had been in his usual frame
of mind, words would have come trippingly
to his tongue at hearing a handsome young
woman thus frankly proclaim her friendlessness.
That he stood silently gazing
at her for a good minute and a half
showed that he was undergoing a new

experience. Her head drooped, her hands
lay limply in her lap. Seated thus, she
gave him the impression of some one half-stunned
by some crushing blow, listless
and indifferent whether a second would
follow.

'' I can hardly credit such a thing," he
began, hesitatingly.

She did not let him finish his sentence.
She rose slowly from her crouching posture.
In the dim light her tall figure seemed to
elongate itself beyond its real height.

Look in mid-heaven ! " she said, in the
same hard, bitter voice as before.

Lance followed the sweep of her hand
to where, under the shadow of the Cuddaw
Fell, the old Castle dominated the landscape.
High in the heavens, directly over the topmost
peak of the Fell, a planet shone outwith
brilliant, metallic lustre among a
thousand stars.

Lance, very hazy in astronomical knowledge,
would have liked to ask a thousand
questions. What planet was it ? Had ita
bad character among the planets ? And
so forth.

But she would not allow one. She drew
the hood of her cloak over her head, and
so closely round her face that naught but
her glittering, forlorn eyes showed beneath
it.

Come, let us go back to the house,"
she said. " I have seen enough for one
nicrht."

Lance, thinking afterwards over his walk
back to the Castle in company with Miss
Shore, was driven to admit that never
before in his life had he spent so silent
a quarter of an hour, in solitary company
with a handsome young woman.

Lance had something of a reputation
for his conversational powers, but now they
appeared suddenly and unaccountably to
have failed him. Except in the briefest
thanks for assistance over stiles or rough
pathway, or monosyllabic acquiescence in
his remarks about the beauty of the night,
he did not hear Miss Shore's voice.

Once or twice, as they walked along the

dim lanes, in and out among the tree-shadows,
he found himself looking at her
wonderingly, trying to define, not alone
her personality, but what special quality it
was in that personality which seemed to
attract and repulse him at one and the
same moment.

In that bewitching, bewildering half-gloom
of the summer's night, she looked,
in her long, clinging gray garments, scarcely
less shadowy than the shadows among
which they walked. In the smooth paths
of the Castle gardens her steps became
slow and gliding, and he fell a little behind
in his walk, asking himself if it were a real
living woman he was following, or merely a
bloodless shadow which would by-and-by
disappear into the mist and vapour out of
which it 'had emerged.

Inside the hall-door, they parted with a
brief 'good-night."

** Who was she ? what was she ? whence
had she come ? whither was she going ? "
Lance wondered, gazing dreamily after the
tall, slight figure as it glided noiselessly
up the broad oak staircase.

Lady Judith's falsetto, in gradual approach
from the farther end of the hall,
brought him back to commonplace earth
once more.

Lady Judith's voice sounded near and
nearer. This habit of speaking as she
came along was a peculiarity of hers.
She was invariably heard before she was
seen.

She had her night-lamp in her hand,
and, as usual, a fine flow of words on her
lips. Madge had gone to bed with a
bad headache, and she herself  well, had
been a little startled : as she was sitting
alone in the drawing-room something had
happened which had set her shivering.

VOL. I. G

Lance's face said, " Fancy ! Aunt Judy
shivering ! "

''If it had happened to any one else,"
the lady went on serenely, " I should have
said that it was a dream ; but you know,
Lance, I never by any chance indulge in
an after-dinner nap."

** No one would ever dare accuse you of
such a thing," said Lance, with a double
meaning.

** Quite so. I admit that sometimes 
sometimes, though rarely  I close my eyes
to rest my head ; for, what with my farm
and Sir Peter, and one thing and another,
my brains do get tired at times. Well, I
was sitting, as you left me, in the dark
corner of the drawing-room  with my eyes
shut, perhaps, I'm not sure  when I seemed
to hear 'a rustling at the further end of
the room, and, looking up, I saw a tall, gray
figure glide, yes  glide is the word  across

the room from the door to the open
window, where it seemed to disappear.
Now, wasn't it uncanny ? "

** Tall and gray ? " said Lance. " Don't
you mean little and gray ? And didn't it
come back again so soon as it had gone
out, and then go out again by another
door ? "

As if to verify the impromptu sketch
which Lance had given of him, the study
door opened at this moment and Sir Peter
came forth.

"My legs ache with sitting still so
Ions:. I've been dictating: letters ever since
dinner, and yet my table's covered ; and
Stubbs is still hard at work ! " he said,
plaintively, as he opened the door which
stood opposite the study door, in order that
he might have a free line of march.

A sudden thought struck Lance :

"Uncle Peter, can you give me three

G 2

minutes ? " he asked, " I want to speak to
you."

Sir Peter was delighted.

I know, I know," he said, rubbing his
hands gleefully and shutting the door
briskly on Lady Judith's portly figure
mounting the staircase. "My dear boy,
I know exactly what you're going to tell
me. It's about Madge. You've asked her
again, and she has said ' Yes,' and you want
to be married at once ! It would be a capital
idea to make one thing of my birthday
festivities and your wedding festivities
next month, eh ? My dear boy, I'm delighted
 delighted ! A quarter of an hour's
talk will settle "

I wish to goodness you'd let me talk,"
interrupted Lance, brusquely. '* I haven't
asked Madge, and I haven't the slightest
intention of doing so  that is, I mean,"
he added, correcting himself, *' I know if I

were to ask her just now I should simply
get a * No ' for my pains. Now, will you
listen to what I have to say ? "

It was evident that he had quite forgotten
his pleasant meditation over his
leisurely cigar in the earlier part of the
evening.

Sir Peter looked towards the corner of
the room where Mr. Stubbs sat at a table
writing by lamplight, with his back to
them. " Is it anything private  strictly
private ? "

Lance had quite overlooked the secretary.
But then he was just the sort of
man to be overlooked  one of the kind
we may meet every day, and whom we
may see a dozen times over, and then come
away, and one of us will assert that he's
tall, and another that he's short ; a third
that he's fair, and a fourth that he's dark ;
while, as a matter of fact, he is most likely

none of these things and could best be
described by a series of negations.

No, not exactly private," answered
Lance, leading the way, however, to the
other end of the room, and speaking ina
low voice. " But I know you delight in
doing a kind action, and I was going to
make a suggestion to you."

Sir Peter was all eager attention at once.

** I hope it covers a wide area," he said,

describing a semicircle in the air with his

arms. *' I dislike wasting time and strength

over microscopic schemes."

I don't think my suggestion can be
dignified by the name of * scheme,' microscopic
or otherwise," said Lance. " It's
about Miss Shore."
Then he hesitated.

Sir Peter was most willing to help him
along. "Fine young woman  very," he
ejaculated. " Good figure, well ' dressed.

Foreign mother, I suppose must be. Shore
is a Sussex name, isn't it ? "

I was thinking," Lance went on, '' that
it might be kind to ask her to prolong her
stay here for a day or two ; she seems very
desolate and friendless \"

Eh ? what, desolate and friendless ? "
And Sir Peter s eye wandered to the writing-table,
where a locked drawer held his cheque-book.
'did she tell you so? I didn't
hear her say so aa we came along, and I
think I heard all your conversation."

Of necessity he must have (lone so,
seeing: . that during the drive home he
had leaned forward with folded arms on the
box-seat, which Lance and Miss Shore
occupied, for the express purpose of so
doing.

Lance felt discretion was needed. " I
can't say that she told me so, but I inferred
as much from  from the fact of her travelling

alone, and from the very melancholy
look on her face. You may have noticed
it."

Ah, yes, now you speak of it I did
notice that she had a peculiarly sad expression
of countenance. I'm sure I shall
be delighted. Ask her to stay as long as
she feels inclined."

The invitation would come better from
the ladies of the family," suggested Lance.

"Ah, yes, of course. Well, you ask
Lady Judith to invite her to stay on a bit."

No ; you ask Lady Judith," said Lance.
The suggestion would come better from
you.

Sir Peter rubbed his chin thoughtfully.

"Eh? No; I don't think it would.
Between you and me, Lance, Lady Judith
and I don't hit it off altogether as I could
wish sometimes. I don't like to say it, but
I don't think she would be at all likely to

give Miss Shore a welcome, if she looked
upon her as a possible jotegee of mine."

Lance began a vigorous demur to this.
'' Now, Uncle Peter "

Uncle Peter gave a little jump. 'i've
got an idea  capital idea! You ask Madge to
invite Miss Shore to stay on a day or two,
and we'll tell Lady Judith when it's done."

''Ah, capital!" echoed Lance. "You
ask Madge, and it's settled at once."

'*No, you ask Madge. The suggestion
will come better from you, my dear boy."

Lance's face changed. *' No, I don't
think it would. Between you and me.
Uncle Peter, Madge and I don't hit it off
altogether as I could wish sometimes. I
don't like to say it, but I don't think she
would be at all likely to give Miss Shore a
welcome if she looked upon her as a possible
protegee of mine."

*' Eh, what ! Don't hit it off, you two ? "

cried Sir Peter. " Don't believe a word of
it. You squabble, do you say ? Nonsense ;
what you call squabbling is coquetry on her
part, nothing more. Don't get such an
idea as that into your head for a moment.
Women are born flirts  born coquettes. I
ought to know, I have had twenty-five
years' experience of married life."

How far his married life had helped him
in his experience of feminine coquetry it
would be impossible to say. One might
as well at any time have attempted a
flirtation with the Marble Arch in Hyde
Park, or the old Cuddaw Fell itself, as
with Lady Judith.

Lance backed out of the study before
this tirade.

He did not notice that Mr. Stubbs, half-turning
his head as he sat, watched him
out of the room with a curious look in his
narrow eyes.

Asa rule, the moral temperature of a
household can be more easily taken at the
morning than at the evening meal. At
the dinner-hour conventionalities are
treated with greater respect, and idiosyncrasy
is swamped.

Breakfast at the Castle on the morning
after Miss Shore's arrival was a typical
meal.

Sir Peter ate it walking from room to
room.

Lady Judith ate it talking of her farm
and her dairy.

Madge ate it reading her letters.

Lance was accustomed to get through
breakfast at a fairly brisk pace and then be

off to the stables or kennels. On this particular
morning, however, he deviated from
his usual custom for he ate next to nothing,
and then sat still with his empty plate
before him watching the door.

It was an odd, jerky sort of breakfast.
Food seemed eaten, as it were, in parentheses.
Exercise on Sir Peter's part, conversation
on Lady Judith's, letter-reading on
Madge's, and anything you please on Lance's
part, seemed to be the real object of their
assembling at nine o'clock in the morning.

Lady Judith was in high spirits over a
new patent incubator which she had just
introduced into use at her home farm.
She could talk of nothing else, and
imagined that every one at table was addressing
inquiries to her respecting it 
which inquiries she answered appropriately
or otherwise, as the case might be.

For instance, when Mad ere asked how

a new maid, engaged a day or two previously,
was doing her work, she got for reply :

Works magnificently  in an altogether
superior fashion. I shall recommend the
thing all over the county."

And when Lance chanced to make a
remark upon the extraordinary heat of the
previous day, the lady broke in with :

It hatched over ninety chickens yesterday,
and no less than one hundred and ten
the day before."

The door of the breakfast-room immediately
faced the study on the other side of
the hall. Both these doors were set wide
open ; and Sir Peter, oscillating like a
pendulum between the two rooms, would
be one moment eating a morsel of chicken
in the one, and the next dictating a line to
Mr. Stubbs, already seated in the study at
his writing-table.

*' I hardly know which way to turn, my

hpe are so full," he said to Madge,
literally in passing.

To have heard him speak one might
have thought at the very least that he was
a Cabinet Minister, with the responsibility
on his shoulders of keeping even the
balance of power in Europe.

Madge, looking furtively at Lance as she
got through her correspondence, seemed
to read, " Is she coming ? " written on his
face. " I sent my maid to call Miss Shore,"
she said, coldly, answering, as she imagined,
his unspoken thoughts. '* But she tells me
she could get no answer to her knocking ; so
I suppose the young lady is tired with her
long journey."

If she had spoken out all her thoughts
she would have added : " Eeally, I have no
interest in .the matter beyond the wish
that the young lady should save the midday
train from Lower Upton."

Lance dawdled about the morning and
breakfast rooms for half an hour or so, and
then disappeared into the gun-room. Sir
Peter had eyes and ears only for his correspondence.
Lady Judith went trailing
through the cornfields, fan in one hand and
a big white umbrella in the other, down to
her farm.

.Madge, feeling that the responsibility of
Miss Shore's movements rested on her
shoulders, despatched her maid once more
with orders to rap louder than ever at the
lady's door, and not to come away till she
received an assurance that she was heard.

When, however, the maid came back
with the same report as before  that, in
spite of twenty minutes of rapping at
intervals, not a sound was to be heard,
Madge made her inhospitable wish give
way to a kindlier impulse. It might be as
well, she thought, if she herself went upto

the young lady's room, in case illness or
some accident had befallen her.

So, accordingly, she made her way to the
upper quarters, and delivered a series of
raps on the closed door.

All the same, never a sound broke the
stillness within.

Then Madge thought it was high time
that she turned the handle and ascertained
for herself the condition of affairs on the
other side of the door.

She made as much noise as she could in
entering. There was Miss Shore lying on
her bed, dressed in her gray cloth 
of overnight. Her hat was on
the floor beside the bed, as if it had been
suddenly tossed off ; her gray cloak was
flung, as if at random, over the face of the
toilette-glass.

But was it at random ? This was the
question Madge asked herself; for there

was also the cheval glass pushed into a
distant corner of the room, with its face
turned to the wall.

With an odd feeling of apprehension,
Madge approached the bed and looked
down into the sleeper's face.

Her head was thrown back on the pillow,
leaving the white, slender pillar of a throat
bare to view. Her face was dead white ;
the bandeau of black hair, which fitted the
head like a crown, had slanted forward,
overlapping the eyebrows ; her lips showed
scarcely so coral-red as they had in the sunlight
on the lawn ; her breathing was low
and regular, and there was nothing to give
Madge the impression that the sleep was
an unnatural one.

Nothing except a glass standing on a
little table beside the bed, which might
so Madge conjectured  have been
hastily drained and set down before the

VOL. I. II

sleeper had thrown herself back on her
pillows.

Madge debated for a moment in her own
mind what she should do. Ought she to
endeavour to rouse the young lady ? Or was
she in a condition that required medical aid ?

She made the round of the room. She
drew up the blind, letting the morning sun
fall full on the sleeper's face. It transformed
the dull black hair into the glossy
black of a raven's wing, marked out line
by line every blue vein in all its delicate
tracery on cheek and eyelid ; but never so
much as a fluttering breath showed that
the girl was conscious of any disturbing
influence.

Then Madge thought it would be as well
to take counsel on the matter; so to the
gun-room accordingly she went, taking it
for granted that she would find Lance there.

He was just coming out of the room as

she reached it. They took a turn or two
in the outside gallery while she detailed to
him the state of affairs.

Lance looked disturbed and distressed,
she thought ; buff, for all that he treated
the matter lightly.

Depend upon it, she's worn out with
travelling. Didn't she say that she had
had two days of it ? " he said. '* Don t you
remember once how I slept right off for
sixteen hours after a heavy day's tramp ?
Leave her to have her sleep out ; she'll
wake right enough later on in the day."

*' What about the glass beside the bed ? '*
queried Madge, suspiciously.

''Oh, I shouldn't think any more of that,
if I were you ; don't say a word about it
to Sir Peter, or he'll be sending off for a
dozen doctors, and as many nurses. Take
my word for it, there's nothing to fuss
over."

H 2

They walked up and down the long
gallery for a minute or two in silence.

What do you think about the looking-glasses
being hidden and turned to the
wall ? " presently Madge asked.

Lance laughed.

Accident  pure accident. The thing
was in her way ; she pushed it in a corner ;
she wanted to get rid of her cloak, and by
chance threw it over the other. You've
made a mountain out of a mole-hill."

Have I ? I'm not so sure of that,"
answered Madge, slowly. "Being what
she is"  here she eyed Lance narrowly 
"it is difficult to understand her not
wishing to look at herself in the glass.
Now, if she were as ugly as I am, the
thing could easily enough be understood."

With the first part of her sentence, Lance
seemed to be entirely in accord ; the latter
part he ignored.

AT THE MOMENT OF VIGTOBT, 101

"Yes," he said, thoughtfully. "As you
say, being what she is, it is difficult to
understand that she could have the slightest
objection to be confronted with her own
face in a mirror."

Then, as if to end a discussion which
was distasteful to him, he made a slight
excuse, and went back to his guns once
naore.

Madge, suddenly recollecting that she
had on the previous day left her work-basket
in a little sitting-room off the
gallery, turned the handle of the door,
to discover, to her amazement, Mr. Stubbs,
just within the room, " not a yard from
the key-hole," as she said to herself indignantly.
He was in a standing posture,
as if he had retreated before the opening
door.

Madge's face showed her astonishment.

I came here to find Lady Judith," he

said, a little hurriedly. '' I suppose she is
down at the home farm ? "

Then, without waiting for a reply, he
slipped past her out of the room.

The impression left on Madge's mind
was that Mr. Stubbs had been an intentional
listener to her conversation with
Lance.

Lady Judith spent nearly the whole of
that day at her farm ; the first half in the
dairy, inspecting the working of a new
butter making machine ; the second half
in the meadows under the trees, among
the shorthorns and "black Welsh." The
patient, dull-eyed beasts must have thought
her a sort of incarnated stormy south-wind
as she stood over them, with her big
fan, superintending the administration of
aconite in soda-water bottles, to those who
appeared to be suffering from incipient
pleura-pneumonia.

Sir Peter grew tired of his letter-writing
as soon as the morning meal offered him

no excuse for incessant perambulations ; so
he ceased dictating, got into the saddle and
rode over the hills to see how the new
wing of the parish schools, in which he
took a great interest, was progressing.
Half-way there he suddenly recollected the
existence of Miss Shore as a visitor in the
house, galloped back at a tremendous pace,
set all the bells ringing and every servant
he could seize upon running backwards and
forwards with inquiries as to where she
was, what she had been doing all the
morning, and whether she had got over
the fatigue of the previous day.

The replies of the servants were necessarily
unsatisfactory, and Sir Peter, catching
a glimpse of a pink skirt among the
laurels in a shady nook, had Madge
suggested .to his mind as a more likely
source of information.

Madge was stitching in leisurely fashion

at a group of yellow marguerites on a
brown plush ground. Lance, in gray tweed
suit, was leaning over the back of her chair
with Roy, a great tawny mastiff, stretched
on the ground at his feet with his nose on
his master's boot.

Madge had been a little startled to hear
Lance's voice over her shoulder, suddenly
asking the somewhat eccentric question :

** Madge, if you had had the choice
given you, what planet would you have
chosen to be born under ? "

Planet planet ! " echoed Madge. " Oh,
what planet is supposed to give women
beauty and powers of fascination ? It
must be Venus. Under Venus, of course."

*' Yes, it must be Venus," decided Lance.
Well, what are the other planets supposed
to do or to give ? And what's the name
of the one that shows now every night
over the Cuddaw Fell ? "

Madge laughed outright. *rare you
going in for astrology or astronomy 
which ? Upon my word, I haven't the
remotest notion what planets are in the
ascendant  is that the phrase ?  at the
present moment."

** Madge," said Sir Peter's voice just
then, a little verily from want of breath,
'* can you tell me where Miss Shore is, and
whether she is feeling rested, and if she
would like letters or telegrams sent away
to her friends up in the North or down in
the South, wherever they are ? "

*' She was sound asleep when I came out
of the house. I haven't the least idea
what her wishes or plans are," answered
Madge.

Asleep ! asleep ! At this time of
day ? Impossible I My dear, she must be
ill. We'd better send some one to fetch
Boughton "

Oh, let her alone, Uncle Peter," interposed
Lance. " The poor girl's evidently
tired out with a long journey. I dare say
she'll wake up right enough a little later
on, and tell us what she wants to do or
have done."

Lance's words were verified.

Madge's maid, sent up about tea-time,
came down saying that Miss Shore had
answered her rapping with the intimation
that she would come downstairs in the cool
of the evening, and the request that
yesterday's newspaper might be brought
to her.

*' Yesterday's newspaper ! " repeated
Madge. '* You had better go to Mr
Stubbs for that; he'll be more likely to
have taken possession of one than any one
else in the house."

Then, in her own mind, she indulged in
free comment on the extraordinary fashion

in which this young lady  an utter stranger
to them all  had seen fit to conduct herself
since she had come into the house*
No apology had she offered for her inattention
to household hours ; no request had
she made for means to continue her
journey.

Eeally," Madge decided, "her beauty
may be a matter of dispute ; but, as to
her breeding, there can be but one
opinion."

Madge was not disposed to modify her
opinion at any rate, when, later on in the
day, as she pinned a bouquet of crimson
roses in her dress preparatory to descending
to dinner, she caught a glimpse through
her muslin window-blind of a picture  a
garden idyll it might have been called 
which made her flush scarlet, though not
with pleasure.

Such a pretty picture, too ! A young

lady, in pale gray robes, leaning back in a
wicker garden-chair ; a young man, hat in
hand, in the act of presenting her with
some flowers.

Madge stood for three minutes watching
them. Evidently the lady declined the
flowers, for the young man tossed them on
one side with a disappointed air.

Would she like any others ? " Madge
could fancy he asked, for the young lady
shook her head, with a slight movement of
her hand as if flowers were distasteful to
her.

Then the dinner-bell clanged, and the
two turned their faces towards the house.

In the summer it was the custom of Sir
Peter and his family to dine in the large
inner hall of the Castle, instead of in the
dining-room. This hall was palatial in its
dimensions, oak-panelled and oak-ceiled.
It was hung on one side with ancestral

portraits ; on the other, Gothic windows
looked out into the garden. A wide
mantelpiece divided the ancestral portraits
right and left. Over this mantelpiece
was a long, low mirror, which
reflected the pretty picture of waving
trees and summer sky that the Gothic
windows framed.

As Madge entered by one door, she
could hear the footsteps of Lance and Miss
Shore crossing the vestibule to enter by
another. Lance's voice, too, caught her
quick ear in a remark as to the gloominess
of the house compared with the
outside summer brightness. She heard the
words :

*' Dismal old hall ! Talk about eighteen
centuries looking down upon you, it's
nothing to compare with eight-and-twenty
Critchetts looking down on you as you eat
your food."

The last word brought him and his
companion into the room.

Lady Judith was on the point of taking
her seat at table. She was not in the best
of tempers. Sir Peter, overhearing Lance s
talk, chanced to remark that, " however
gloomy the hall might be, it was nevertheless
a pleasant refuge from midday sun 
.the coolest room in the house, in fact." Lady
Judith catching the word " refuge," and
nothing more, not unnaturally concluded
that another scheme of charity was in progress
of development, and immediately became
voluble and prophetic on the matter.

With a formal bow she waved Miss
Shore to her seat at table. " Refuges,
indeed ! As if there where not enough
and to spare throughout the kingdom ! "
she declaimed. " Two at Carstairs to my
certain knowledge, and a good workhouse
with accommodation for fifty men and as

many women within three miles outside
the town." And again she waved Miss
Shore to her seat.

But Miss Shore did not take it. She
stood motionless, her head turned from
the table, her hand resting on the back of
her chair. Madge could see that this was
a necessity to her, for she trembled so
violently that she needed to support herself
with extraneous aid.

I cannot eat to-night," she said, turning
a white face towards Sir Peter. " I will
go up to my room."

Madge flashed a glance first to Lance,
then to the looking-glass opposite which
Miss Shore's chair had been placed.

Can you eat seated on this side of the
table ? " she asked, rising and offering her
own place.

Miss Shore, with a brief word of thanks,
accepted Madge's chair.

She is ashamed to look herself in the
face for some reason or other," was Madge's
uncharitable mental comment on the little

episode.

VOL. I.

Nature is a strict economist in her work,
she does not squander her resources. She
gives to the " viewless winds " and invisible
thunders the blasts of trumpets and
crash of artillery ; but when she paints
the "awful rose of dawn," or the golden
glories of sunset, heaven's echoes are mute,
and without so much as a muffled whisper,
the great cloud pageant issues forth, troops
across the sky, and vanishes.

Madge never saw the sun sink behind
the Cuddaws, without some such thought
as this in her mind.

As she stood on the terrace that evening
after dinner, watching the stormily-splendid

clouds that, gathering low on the horizon,
were slowly quenching the limpid tints of
the after-glow, it seemed to her that those
sumptuous reds and purples should have
come with the crackle of field-pieces and
the roar of battle ; and that those tender,
translucent greens and yellows should have
died into the gray with the sounds of softly
retreating harps and viols.

Dinner had been a short meal that night,
and would have been shorter still could
the wishes of three, out of the five seated
at table, have been consulted. Miss Shore
ate next to nothing, spoke never a word
unless pointedly addressed, and then her
replies were all but monosyllabic. Lady
Judith eyed her keenly at intervals during
the long discourse for which the word
'refuge" served as text. Sir Peter eyed
her benevolently, asked after her health,
didn't wait for an answer ; asked if she

I 2

would like telegram or letter sent to her
friends anywhere to assure them of her
safety, didn't wait for an answer to that,
but hoped that she wouldn't feel herself
bound to continue her journey on the
following day unless she felt disposed so
to do.

To all this, Miss Shore replied with a
manifest effort : " Let me stay one day
more. I won't ask for another  one day
more, only that."

The request was put in eccentric fashion,
even conceding to the speaker a certain
indulgence for her unfamiliarity with the
English tongue. This was scarcely the
way in which an unexpected guest might
be supposed to crave permission to extend
a stay in a hospitable house. A criminal
at a bar of justice, pleading that his
sentence miofht be deferred for another
twenty-four hours, might have done soin

much such a voice, with much such
a look on his face as Miss Shore had on
hers.

Even Sir Peter became dimly conscious
that his kindly commonplaces had somehow
touched a deep chord, for he stumbled
and stammered over his courteous consent
to her request.

As for Madge, looking up she caught
Lance's eye fixed on Miss Shore's whiteface
with so intensely interested a lookin
it that the words of kindly courtesy
she was about to utter died unspoken on
her lips.

It was the recollection of that look
which sent her out by herself on to the
terrace, to watch the sunset glories instead
of the less fascinating spectacle of Lady
Judith fanning herself to sleep in her armchair.


As for Miss Shore, no sooner had the

meal come to an end than she went straight
up the stairs to her own room once more.

Presently Lance joined Madge on the
terrace.

*' There's a storm brewing overhead," he
said, by way of beginning conversation.

Is there ? " answered Madge, by way
of ending it ; for the cloud of undefined
annoyance caused by Lance's irrational
sympathy for an utter stranger had scarcely
passed away.

But, nevertheless, they might soon have
drifted into cheerful talk if Sir Peter's
short, quick footsteps had not at that
moment been heard, followed at an interval
by his blithe, cricket-like voice.

Don't let me disturb you, young-people,"
he chirruped. " This is the time
for saying sweet things  blushes are not so
conspicuous, eh, Madge ? "

So far," said Madge, sententiously,

"we've said nothing, beyond a remark as
to the possibility of a storm coming on."

'eh, nothing! Why, Lance, you sly
fellow, what has become of all those grand
speeches you were so busy concocting at
dinner-time, that you hadn't a word to say
to anybody ? "

"Madge knows all the sweet things I
think of her ; there is no need for me to
say them," answered Lance, in light, complimentary
fashion.

"Ah, yes  yes. Very neatly put, 'pon
my word. Now, Madge, you must say
something equally sweet by way of
acknowledgment."

"Lance knows exactly what I think of
the sweet things he thinks of me ; there is
no need for me to say it," answered
Madge, solemnly, and not in complimentary
fashion.

And her thought, as she said this, was :

"If he would but let us alone! If an
attack of gout would but keep him
prisoner for a week, everything might come
right."

But Sir Peter's persistently optimistic
view of the " situation " shoved that gout
was yet a long way off.

Ah ! that's right, that's right," he said,
more blithely than ever. " Where young
people so thoroughly understand each
other as Lance and you do, long-winded
speeches are unnecessary."

And he tripped away lightly once more,
no doubt with the sound of wedding-bells
in his ears.

He'll come back again in another
minute," said Lance, looking over his
shoulder after Sir Peter's retreating figure.
Come for a row, Madge ; there's something
I particularly want to say to you
to-night."

But, though Madge acquiesced, and,
fetching a light shawl, was ready in a
moment. Lance evidently found his something
hard to say, for they wound along
the garden paths in an almost unbroken
silence.

The heat seemed to increase upon them
as they descended the slope under the
overruling boughs. Flower-scents hung
heavily in the air. The whirring of gnats
and flies was almost intolerable.

Lance, with a visible effort, made a
remark which seemed to be suggested by
nothing and to lead nowhere. It was :

Madge, do you know you've a fine
reputation for benevolence and Christian
charity ? I had no idea till the other day,
when I was dining at the Brabazons',
what a lot people think of you."

It scarcely seemed possible that Madge
could know by intuition whither Lance's

remark was intended to lead, yet she
answered coldly :

'' Eeally, I don't carse two straws what
people think of me. Please talk about
something interesting." She laid marked
emphasis on the word " people." " If he
has anything nice to say to me, he may as
well say it on his owen account," was her
supplementary thought.

Lance read that thought easily enough,
and the desire to tease her immediately
became irresistible.

' Oh, of course not ; why should you
care even one straw ? * People ' say pleasant
things of you one minute, and disagreeable
things the next. That's the way of the
world."

They have no right to say disagreeable
things," she answered, sharply. 'not that
it matters much  I never listen to gossip,
and don't wish to know what any one

says of me, whether agreeable or disagreeable."


Of course not. . Envy is at the root of
nine out of every ten of the spiteful things
women say of each other."

Women ! What women have been
running me down ? "

'' Don't get excited, Madge. It's a tribute
to one's breeding to be disparaged by the
crowd."

'' Disparaged ! Who has been disparaging
me ? Lance, I insist on knowing what was
said of me at the Brabazons' the other
night ! "

Lance laughed outright.

*' Ah, now we've got back to the point
where we diverged. I was going to tell
you what was said of you at the Brabazons'
the other night, and you wouldn't listen 
here we are at the edge of the stream.
Well, Lottie Brabazon said that you were

the Lady Bountiful of the county, and
put every one else to shame with your
generosity to the poor."

With his last word Lance stooped to
unmoor the boat.

Here the larches gave place to willows
and osiers, and the expanse of running
water somewhat cooled the hot air. The
clouds hung ominously low, however, with
more of black than purple in them now.

This miniature river was formed by the
conjunction of two little streams which
had been diverted from their course to
add to the beauty of the Castle pleasure-grounds,
by dividing the flower-garden
from the park. It made a pretty little
bit of landscape, with its fringe of bulrushes
and water-flails on one side, and
plantation of .aspens and willows on the
other.

As Madge stepped into the "boat, a

sleepy swan sailed majestically from out
the shadowy reeds. It headed the boat fora
few minutes/showing snow-white against
the dark shadows thrown on the water by
the inky clouds overhead ; then it disappeared
into the dimness beyond.

Madge's good-humour came back to
her.

This is heavenly ! " she said, taking off
her bracelet and paddling with her hand
in the cool stream. *' I dare say we shall
got a good fifteen minutes out here before
the storm breaks."

Lance shook his head.

** Ten only," he said, reading the sky
with an eye practised in cloud and
mountain presages. " Madge, don't let's
squabble for five, at least, out of those ten
minutes ; there is something I particularly
wish to say to you."

He had grown suddenly serious.

Madge grew serious also.

It's about Miss Shore ? " she said,
questioning and affirming in a breath.

' Yes ; about Miss Shore," he answered,
quietly. *' Madge, do you know she is
very friendless, very desolate, and, I should
imagine, only partially recovered from some
heavy sorrow."

She has taken you into her confidence
? "

*' To a very limited extent," laughed
Lance ; but his laugh was a little uneasy.
*' Just before dinner this evening I came
upon her in the garden. We talked  no, I
suppose I did the greater part of the talking
 but, at any rate, somehow or other I
elicited the fact that she is homeless and
friendless, and it doesn't require a very
vigorous stretch of imagination to conclude
from those facts that she is moneyless
also."

Lance's, " Somehow or other I elicited
the fact," can scarcely be said to be a
true statement of what had taken place
between him and Miss Shore, in that brief
five minutes before dinner of which Madge's
prejudiced eyes had conveyed so distorted
an impression to her brain.

He had found the young lady in the
garden, leaning back in her chair with
white, inanimate face, like that of one
newly recovered from a swoon. The
flowers he held in his hand to present to
her he had at once tossed on one side, as
incongruous with the look of suffering her
face wore.

"You are ill," he had said with real
concern. " Let me send word to your
friends."

You must find them before you can
send to them," had been her brief reply.

Then she had waved him on one side

with the impetuous request that he would
let her alone  not persecute her with
questions.

I thought she was travelling to friends
up in the North when the train broke
down. You said so ; Sir Peter said so 
some one said so, at any rate," said Madge,
presently.

Did some one ? I'm not sure. Well,
at any rate, from what I got out of her
this afternoon it seems as if she hadn't a
friend in the world, and, what is more, she
appears perfectly callous on the matter, as
if the fact were of no importance whatever.


"And you want me to take a vast
interest in a matter on which the person
most concerned is callous ! " exclaimed
Madge.

"Well, yes; why not? A man jumps
into the water and tries to drown himself,

and sometimes he is more than callous on
the matter  has, in fact, a very strong
objection to being pulled out again ; but,
for all that, we do our best to save him."

Madge made no reply.

She was a woman of strong prejudices,
and those she had conceived against Miss
Shore at first sight were stubborn ones ;
nevertheless, she had been so accustomed
all her life long to yield compliance to
Lance's wishes, that it was almost easier
for her to let go those prejudices than
to deny him now.

Lance's manner did not exhibit the
uneasiness he had expressed to Sir Peter
over-night, respecting Madge's possible
reception of a petition from him on Miss
Shore's behalf.

He went on composedly as if denial
were out of the question.

*' I've no doubt I went to work this

VOL. I. K

afternoon in a very bungling fashion  Fm
not a particularly good hand at getting
people's confidence when they've no mind
to give it, and she was very loth to speak
of herself  but I dare say, Madge, if you
were to interest yourself and have a talk
with her "

There came at this moment a flutter
and a rustling from among the reeds and
osiers at the water's edge.

What's that ? " queried Madge, sharply,
turning her head towards the sound.

Lance's look followed hers.

*ran otter, I dare say," he answered,
quietly. But, nevertheless, he kept a
steady eye on the spot whence the sound
had come.

Madge dealt a sharp, though not a final,
blow to her prejudices.

'eyes, I'll try and get a talk with her
tomorrow, sand find out if we can help

her," she answered slowly. " It's rather
difficult to offer people money right out 
but perhaps she may be clever at singing,
or painting, and may be able to give me a
few lessons. At any rate, I'll promise todo
what I can." Then she changed the
subject abruptly, exclaiming : *' How dark
it's getting ! Hadn't we better think of
turning back ? " In good truth, she had
had enough of Miss Shore and her friendless
condition.

Bird-notes had ceased now ; only a
distant sound of whirring insect life broke
the stillness.

Lance looked up at the sky. " We must
get back at once, or the storm will be on top
of us," he answered. As he finished speaking,
there came the low growl of advancing
thunder.

Lance plied a swift oar. As they shot
past the shadowy nook, whence the rust

2

ling sound had come, he peered in curiously
among the reeds. The flags waved ; the
osiers bent and whispered ; but it was only
the wind rising now.

The storm was a dry one ; it broke in its
full fury almost immediately after Madge
and Lance got back to the house. They
had scampered up the steep garden paths
as if pursued by the storm-fiend himself,
and Madge had to stand a good three
minutes just within the hall-door to get
her breath back.

Get away from the trees, Madge," he
had said, catching her arm and pulling her
along at a fine pace.

Well, she could easily understand his
anxiety to get her and himself under
shelter from the storm. What she could
not understand was his haste to rush out

into it again. It is true he shouted to her
as he disappeared in the outside darkness :
I've forgotten something, I shall be back
in a minute." But that something ought
to have been of first importance to necessitate
such a headlong rush into what
threatened to be one of the worst tempests
the country-side had known for years.

Lance's seemingly eccentric conduct,
however, admitted of an easy explanation.
AVhen he had peered among the reeds
and water-flags as his boat shot past, he
had thought he saw the flutter of a
gray skirt, whose wearer it was easy to
identify.

Madge had read easily enough the
forlornness which ]\Iiss Shore's white face
and stony manner expressed. Lance had
read the forlornness, and something else
beside. A mood half-desperate, half-defiant,
which might possibly . find for

itself a desperate means of ending a
hopeless life.

It was this thought flashing into his
mind as he reached the hall-door, that
speeded his feet through the storm to the
water's edge once more.

But when he got down there among the
sedges and willows, not a soul was to be
seen. A startled bird flew from out a
marshy hollow with a sharp cry ; a solitary
frog croaked a dismal note of warning ;
an ominous breeze, rippling the dark
surface of the water, set the reeds bending
and whispering together. Other sound
there was none.

Something glittering at the bottom of
the little boat they had just quitted caught
his eye. Picking it up he saw that it was
the bracelet which Madge had unclasped as
she had paddled in the stream.

A brilliant flash of lightning cleft the

inky clouds over his head, and for one
brief moment the whole night-hidden
landscape stood revealed.

Old Cuddaw crowned it, standing out
bold, bleak, and bare against the leaden
sky. Below, the Castle showed a gray
solid block of masonry with every turret
and gable sharply defined. Lower still
the valley lay, a dim expanse of waving,
shadowy trees, out of which crept a white,
stony path, leading with many a wind upto
the Fells.

It seemed less like one grand expanse of
scenery thus laid bare to view than a combination
of two landscapes, the one belonging
to the sky, the other to the earth beneath.

In that brief, vivid illumination, Lance
saw something else beside the sky picture
and the dim valley with its upward-winding
path  the figure of a woman
in long flowing cloak in that path.

making her way rapidly towards the
mountains.

It did not need a second flash of lightning
to tell him who that woman was.
But what her motive could be in thus
daring the storm on those mountain
heights was not so easy to discover.

He thought with dismay of the slippery
mountain paths, the shelving ledges, the
holes, and gaping precipices. He who
had known them from boyhood would
yet have hesitated to dare their dangers
on a moonless night. And there was
she  a woman, a stranger, without guide
or light  making for them with straight
and rapid steps, that implied purpose and
design.

His course was clear to him. A shorter
way led out of the valley than the one she
was following ; it intersected the former
path at the point where the mountain

ascent began. By using his utmost despatch
he might intercept her at that point,
and succeed in inducing her to take shelter
in a sandy hollow beneath the over-arching
rocks, which, in his boyish days, had been
a favourite play - place for him  his
*' Crusoe's cave'

It was not possible to make swift
headway through the woody moorland
which lay between him and this haven
of refuge. The darkness was increasing
with every step he took. Overhead the
thunder crashed with a bewildering
rapidity, every peal prolonged to twice its
length by the mountain echoes, till from
east to west, from west to east, the
heavens seemed one vast plain of rolling
artillery.

He hailed the bright, scintillating lightnings
as he would have hailed a friendly
lantern. They showed him the briar and

tangle in his path, the big stumbling-blocks
of boulders, the pitfalls of disused gravel-pits.
They showed him also, when at
length he reached the " Crusoe's cave,"
Miss Shore's slender figure standing about
thirty feet above his head on the overlapping
ledge.

Whatever she was or was not, one thing
was certain : she must be a practised
mountaineer, or she could never have
reached even this moderate height in
safety.

*' How much horner is she goings ? "
thought Lance. Then, making one vigorous
effort in the pauses of the thunder, he
shouted to her at the top of his voice,
calling her by name, entreating her to wait
for him, so that he might take her to a
place of safety.

There came an awful flash of lightning
at this moment, which seemed to spend its

fiercest strength on the very ledge of rock
on which she stood.

Lance, half-blinded, looking upwards,
saw the girl standing motionless, while the
lightning seemed literally to smite the
ground at her very feet. Then came the
terrific, resonant thunder, then the inky,
bewildering darkness closed in upon the
mountain-side once more.

Half-stunned, as well as half-blinded,
Lance made his way up the stony
path which lay between him and Miss
Shore; his heart, stout as it was, quailing
at the thought of the sight that might
greet his eyes as the dire result of Nature's
cruelly-expended forces.

But no sight more dire than that of Miss
Shore leaning against the bulging side of
the rock met his view as he rounded the
path. She might have been carved out of
the rock itself for the motionlessness and

rigidity of lier outline. The hood of her
gray cloak had fallen from her head ; her
bandeau of black hair had uncoiled, and
hung in a long black line on one side of
her ashen-white face ; her eyes were round
and staring.

She did not turn her head at his approach,
merely pointed to the ground at her feet,
where the quick thunderbolt had literally
split the rock and 'kissed its burial."

Did you see that ? " she asked, under
her breath, in an awe-stricken voice.

*' See it ! " cried Lance. " Who could
help seeing it ? Thank Heaven you are
safe  don't waste a moment, take my hand,
I'll get you down into a place of safety."

But the girl did not stir. " Would that
have killed any one else ? " she asked, in
the same slow, suppressed voice as before.

"Why, of course not, or else it must
have killed you," answered Lance, trying

to laugh off what seemed to him a stupefying
terror on her part. " You see I wasn't
far behind you, and I wasn't hurt. Come,
make haste into shelter ; we don't know
what the next flash may do."

His last words were lost in the crash of
another peal.

But it was farther ojQf now. The storm
had evidently spent the worst of its fury.
The dense sky parted ; light clouds went
travelling across it, carried by the upper
current.

Still the girl did not stir.

* By poison or fire or flood it must be 
there is no other way," she muttered under
her breath, with eyes not looking at Lance,
but beyond him.

'* Poison, fire, flood ! " All in a moment
there seemed to be revealed to Lance a
terrible reason for the emptied glass beside
the bed, for the crouching figure among

the water-reeds, for the bare-headed defiance
of the lightning on the mountain.

Debonair and light-hearted to the last
degree, it cost him an effort to shut his
eyes to the horror of the whole thing, and
to say in an easy, commonplace voice :
Never mind about that ; the thing is
now to get into a place of safety. Come."

She looked at him steadily for a moment.
' Yes, I will come," she said, slowly. "Fate
is stronger than I."

She did not take his hand ; she walked
slowly beside him with head bent, and eyes
fixed on the ground.

There was no need to seek the refuge of
the " Crusoe's cave." Overhead, the light
clouds parting showed a faint rift of light
from a young moon ; far away in the
distance the thunder was dying hard ina
succession of low, sonorous growls.

But few words passed between them on

their way back. Lance thanked Heaven
when they stood within the Castle grounds
once more. Miss Shore seemed tired,
dazed ; her voice was weak, her footsteps
dragged.

Lights were more conspicuous in the
upper than in the lower rooms as they
approached the house. One long French
window of the library, left unsheltered and
unbarred, gave them easy and unnoticed
entrance.

*' She ought to be locked in her room
at night," thought Lance, as he said his
good-night to his companion at the foot of
the stairs.

Oh, Lance," said Madge, coming out of
the drawing-room a moment after, "where
have you been ? How white you look !
AVe were just talking about sending out a
party of men with torches and umbrellas in
search of you."

Lance tossed her bracelet to her. ''A
golden reason for risking a wetting," he
said, laughingly, and then vanished forthwith,
before she had time to frame a second
question.

VOL. I.

Madge, bent on keeping down the growth
of her prejudices, did not forget her promise
to Lance, and the morning after the storm
saw her seated in Miss Shore's room doing
her best to win that young lady's confidence,
with the benevolent hope of finding
a pretext for inducing her to prolong her
stay at the Castle.

It was up-hill work, however. Miss
Shore seemed bent on playing the part
of a fertilising shower to Madge's prejudices,
for rebuff after rebuff" did she deal
to her kindly overtures.

Miss Shore had not made her appearance
at the breakfast-table on the morning

after the storm. Her breakfast had been
taken to her in her own room, together
with the morning's paper, for which she
had once more sent down a special request.

You are interested in politics  in the
foreign news ? " asked Madge, by way of
making a beginning, and noting that Miss
Shore had folded the paper with the Continental
news uppermost.

She started.

*' I care for foreign news ! Why should
I ? It is nothing to me," she answered,
almost fiercely.

Madge felt that she had somehow made a
wrong start.

** One naturally likes to have news of
one's own country when away from it,"
she said, apologetically.

** Country!" cried Miss Shore, flushing
scarlet, " this is my country ; I have no
other."

Madge felt bewildered.

'but  but," she stammered, "you are
not English, surely. Are you not Italian ?
You gave me the impression of being
Italian."

I am not Italian ; I am English. My
father was English; L am English. Hear
how I speak ! "

Evidently she was ignorant how markedly
foreign her accent was.

'' I am sorry," said Madge, frankly. " I
was hoping that you might be Italian,
and that  that we might have studied
the lansuao'e together. I am so wishing
to be a fluent linguist."

She did not like to say : "I was hoping
that you would be able to give me some
lessons in Italian, for which I might have
paid you a guinea an hour," She could
only hope that her meaning would gradually
dawn on her languid listener

The meaning, however, did not seem to
dawn, so Madge went on again :

*'I am wanting to improve myself in
all sorts of ways. I sometimes feel I am
very much behind other people in accomplishments.
I want to get some good
teaching in singing  I am particularly fond
of singing. Do you sing ? "

*' I do not."

'dear me, this is unpromising," thought
Madge. " There's one thing she couldn't
give me lessons in  courtesy. What shall
I try next ? Ah !  Perhaps you play on
the piano or on the violin ? "

I do not know a note of music."

"Really?"

There came a long pause.

Miss Shore folded her newspaper with
the advertisements outside, but still kept
it tightly in her hand.

Madge looked out of the window. The

storm of overnight had disturbed the
weather ; the air was full of a vapoury
heaviness through which the mountains
showed black against a leaden sky.

Those mountains suggested an idea :

** I do so wish I had devoted more time
to art before I married ! I would give
anything if I could paint those mountains
that sky. Of course you can paint ? "

''1 can."

Madge's spirits went up.

How I envy you " she began, but

then stopped.

She did not care, with other interests
growing upon her, to volunteer for a long
course of painting lessons ; that would
mean at least three hours daily in Miss
Shore's company. As well reside in
thrilling regions of thick-ribbed ice," as
that.

Another idea suggested itself.

*' I don't mean flower-painting or pore
; I mean can you sketch
scenery  mountains, and lakes, and
valleys ? "

"I hate the mountains," said with slow,
suppressed bitterness.

** Hate the mountains ! Well, even if
you hate them, it needn't prevent your
being able to paint them," said Madge,
beginning to lose patience a little.

I can paint them. I have painted
mountains grander than these." She broke
ofi" a moment, then added, as if she were
compelling herself to a course that was
advisable rather than attractive: *'Do you
wish me to paint these mountains for
you ? "

** That's it  the very thing," cried
Madge, drawing a long breath of relief.
I have been wanting, for a long time, to
decorate a little room downstairs which I

occupy sometimes with a set of water-colour
sketches." (This was a fib, but Madge
was at her wits' ends.) " It was my
boudoir before I married, and now Sir
Peter is good enough to have it refurnished
for me. If I could get six or eight pictures
of Cumberland scenery hung round it, I
should feel it decorated at once."

'' Six or eight ! There," thought Madge,
she can take just as long as ever she likes
over them, and I'll pay her whatever she
asks me for them. And if Lance isn't
satisfied with my morning's work, I don't
know wdiat will please him."

"I will paint them if you wish it," said
Miss Shore, and then she looked at the
door as if she had endured Madge's company
long enough.

Madge rose instantly.

Is your room comfortable ? Have you
all you want here ? " she asked, looking

round as she so often did when welcoming
Lady Judith's guests to the Castle.

Both looking-glasses were pushed into a
corner now, both turned face to the wall.

Miss Shore followed Madge's gaze towards
that corner.

'' They were in my way. I pushed them
there," she said, coldly, in a tone that prevented
further questioning.

Madge felt that she had earned the
thanks which Lance accorded to her, when,
later on in the day, she contrived to inform
him of her plan to put a little money into
Miss Shore's purse.

I must admit that she is not a taking
young woman," she said. " I never felt
myself so chilled and repressed in my life
before."

The seriousness Lance put into his
answer startled her. .

Madge, I do believe," he said, ** that

that poor girl has had some terrible experience.
I never before in my life saw-human
eyes with such a hunted, desolate
look in them'

It's wonderful," said Sir Peter, coming
into the room at that moment, *' how much
one can get through between sunrise and
sundown, if one only sets to work with a
will ! "

** Wonderful ! " echoed Lance, his seriousness
gone in a moment, like a ghost at the
cock's crow, and getting up and opening a
door on the opposite side of the room, in
order that Sir Peter miojht have free express
whenever he felt so disposed.

Sir Peter had been in a particularly
lively frame of mind during the past few
days, and Mr. Stubbs had had rather a
busy time of it, owing to his patron's wish
to re-model every one of the charities on
whose committee-list his name figured.

The letter-bag had gone out stuffed every
night, yet Sir Peter's brain appeared to
be brimming over with ideas.

I have a splendid scheme on hand just
now," he said, thoroughly content now
that he had succeeded in breaking the
thread of Lance's and Madge's talk, and
had concentrated their attention entirely
on himself. " A splendid scheme ! A
little vast  a little vague at present,
perhaps."

Ah," echoed Lance again ; " a little
vast, a little vague ! "

But what of that ? In my schemes I
must be vast, or I am nothing. The fault
of one-half the schemes of charity submitted
to me is that they are microscopic.
I say to Stubbs every morning of my
life, 'Double, treble, quadruple the proportions
of that project, then I will look
at it.' But I must have elbow-room 

elbow-room in all I undertake." Here lie
lifted his elbows in the air with an upward,
wing-like motion.

"Ah, elbow-room, of course," said Lance,
also execution the minor-like movement with
his elbows.

Sir Peter made one turn round the room,
and came back again.

"The truth of it is," he said, lowering
his voice, and looking over his shoulder,
"if it were not for Lady Judith I should
by this time have won for myself the
reputation of an universal "

Provider ? " susTfirested Lance.

"Benefactor," finished the old gentleman,
not understanding the allusion.
But, as it is "  here a deep-drawn sigh 
when I would soar on wings like a bird,"
here he again executed the upward, wing-like
movement, " Lady Judith brings me
down to earth again, and I feel myself

nothing more than a kite with a strainer
attached to it."

Then he pulled out his watch.

*what, half-past twelve is it? And I
have had no exercise to-day. Ah ! I must
be off for a little stretch in the Park."

"There is a case of foot-and-mouth
disease at Lower Upton' said Lady Judith,
entering the room by the door by which
Sir Peter was about to quit it.

She was fanning herself vigorously. Sir
Peter backed into the room before her.
Her robust handling of her fan mioht have
conveyed the impression that she had
fanned him back again over the threshold.

Now that the husband and wife were
together in the room, Madge thought it
would be a splendid opportunity to get
their combined sanction to the little plan
she had just been detailing to Lance
respecting Miss Shore.

She accordingly, in a key sufficiently
high to reach Lady Judith's ear, asked Sir
Peter's consent to it.

Sir Peter's face grew rosy with pleasure.

The very thing ! the very thing ! " he
cried, rubbing his hands gleefully. " I told
you, Lance, if Madge were only consulted
on the matter, she'd arrange it all easily
enough ! And you said "

No, I didn't," said Lance, apprehensive
of what was coming, and not at all pleased
that Madge should know that he and Sir
Peter had beforehand taken counsel together
on the matter.

Well, I said I have a hundred plans
for "

Ah ! I dare say you said that," interrupted
Lance, bent on preventing further
disclosures.

Lady Judith ' unintentionally became his
ally.

'* Is she to be a permanence in the
house ? That's what I want to know," she
asked in her highest key, her fan once
more with its backward motion stirring
the air as much for Sir Peter as for
herself. 'rand am I expected to take ber
in band, and be a sort of Providence to
her?"

Sir Peter slipped behind ber, retreating
backwards towards the door.

No, no, my dear, nothing of the sort ;
don't trouble yourself. Madge will take
all responsibility on her own shoulders,
I'm sure."

Lady Judith turned on him, executing
the double action with her fan once more.

She caught the word responsibility only.

Yes, it is a responsibility ; and I admit
that, if I am to have responsibilities, I would
sooner they should be of my own choosing.
There was the last gardener's boy you sent

home  wretched little being ! He had lost
a thumb, and was horribly bow-legged, and
I remember you said to me : * Nice little
fellow ! Can't you put him into page's
livery, and make something of him ? ' "

**My dear, I have no wish for you to
put Miss Shore into page's livery, I assure
you," said Sir Peter, making a feeble effort
to render the situation comic, but getting
at the same time a step or two nearer the
door.

Lady Judith fanned him on another step
or two.

And the last stable-boy you brought
home from London had such a diabolical
squint, that he could only see the time by
turning his back on the clock and getting
a glimpse at it over the top of his ear.
Yet you said to me : ' First-rate lad that 1
find him something to do at the farm'"

But she had fairly fanned Sir Peter onto

the door-mat now, and had to appeal to
Lance and Madge as audience.

They, however, through long practice,
were able to continue undisturbed their
own subjects of conversation under the
immediate fire of her oratory.

VOL. I.

Madge, in a moment of exasperation,
had wished that gout would seize Sir Peter
and hold him prisoner for a week, while she
and Lance arranged their affairs to their
own liking. Gout, however, was far too
elderly and dignified a complaint to attack
one of his essentially juvenile temperament.

A single case of measles occurred to a
six-months' old baby in a hamlet about
fifteen miles distant. It seemed a perfectly
natural dispensation of Providence that
Sir Peter should be the second victim.

Don't know what's the matter with
me, Lance," he said pitifully, ''Lfeel as if
my legs didn't belong to me."

*' Perhaps you've tired them a bit," said
Lance, suggesting a far-away possibility.

I would sooner have it myself twenty
times over," said the worthy medical practitioner
who was called in ; " how on earth
we're to keep him in one room without a
lock or key is more than I can think."

AVhen by dint of combined effort they
succeeded in getting Sir Peter to bed, they
could have fancied that his pillow was stuffed
with steel springs which sent his head up
with a jerk as soon as it was laid upon it,
so perpetually were his eyes and ears on
the alert for all that went on around him.

His correspondence was a great anxiety
to him.

You'll see to my letters, Lance, won't
you"' he begged, *' and "  this added ina
timorous whisper  '* you'll keep my
study-door locked and the key in your
pocket, won't you ? "

M 2

'' Oh, you mean lock Stubbs in, and not
let bim out till the letters are all answered,"
queried Lance.

"No, no, no." Here the whisper grew
more confidential still. " I mean keep
Lady Judith out, in case  in case she might
you know  you know."

Oh yes, I know," answered Lance, reassuringly.
' I'll look after your letters,
never fear, Uncle Peter, and keep down
the correspondence right enough."

Lance's idea of " keeping down the
correspondence " was simple and effective.
He evaded Sir Peter's order to lock the
study-door by never going near it at all.

Bring the letters and pen and ink into
the gun-room, Stubbs," he said; 'while
I overhaul my fishing-tackle, you can read
them out to , me, and I'll do a Sir Peter
and dictate replies."

To the gun-room the letters were

accordingly taken, and Lance, with a
cigarette between his teeth and his fishing
gear in his hand, quickly disposed of Sir
Peter's correspondence.

Mr. Stubbs read the first letter, and then
waited in silence for a reply to be forthcoming.


*' Go on," said Lance. " We'll read them
off half-a-dozen at a time, and then I daresay
one answer will do for the lot."

The first half-dozen consisted mainly of
appeals for advice on matters concerning
the internal working of certain charities of
which Sir Peter was president.

Toss all that lot into the waste-paper
basket," said Lance. " They'll answer
themselves if they're let alone. If they
don't get any advice from Sir Peter,
they'll conclude they'll have to do without
it. Now we'll go on to the next
half-dozen."

They chanced to be appeals for help
from various benevolent institutions.

Ten pounds to each all round for that
lot, Stubbs, and tell them not to bother
again," said the young man. 'rand that'll
do for this morning  the rest will keep till
tomorrow ; I'm off to the stables now."

If he had known what letter lay unread
in the packet which Mr. Stubbs proceeded
to lock up in Sir Peter's secretaire, he
would scarcely have decreed in such lighthearted
fashion that *' the rest would keep "
till the morrow.

He detailed to Madge, later on in the
day, the easy, comfortable manner in which
he had got through his morning's work.

'' The truth of it is, Madge," he said,
' half the world fret themselves to fiddle-strings
over nothing at all ! Best on your
oars and let the wind carry you along whenever
you've a chance, that's what I say."

Madge, drawing conclusions from a contrasting
experience, was disposed to contest
the matter with him. " What if the wind
carries you the wrong way ? " she asked.

"Oh, then try your muscles and have
a tussle for it." said Lance, half-way up
the stairs to Sir Peter's room, in order to
explain to him his patent method of disposing
of troublesome correspondence.
'don't, don't," cried Madge, guessing
his intention, and following him at express
speed. " It will send him into a fever and
o-Lve him a bad night."

It'll make him sleep like a top," persisted
Lance, and forthwith, much to the
consternation of the nurse in attendance,
he proceeded to recount to the old gentleman
his morning's work.

Sir Peter was wrapped up in flannels ;
his face was very red ; his eyes were
streaming. His face grew redder still, his

eyes Streamed worse than ever, as he
listened to Lance's description of " the
mass of work" he had got through in a
quarter of an hour.

*' It'll take weeks to undo the mischief
you've done," he moaned, and then his
cough stopped him.

Lance vanished discreetly before the
combined wrath of Madge and the nurse.

Madge volunteered her services in the
way of ojDoning and assorting letters.

I can at least send temporary answers
and tell everybody to wait till you're well
again," she said, soothingly.

The very thing, Madge; the very thing,"
cried Sir Peter, all serenity once more.
*you open my letters  no one else, remember
 and tell every one they shall
have my entire  mind, my entire attention
so soon as I get about again. Any letters
of importance put carefully on one side

in the right-hand drawer of my secretaire 
lock it up and keep the key yourself."

And then he coughed incessantly again,
and had to eat black-currant lozenges for
the rest of the afternoon.

As Madge crossed the gallery leading
from Sir Peter's room, she paused at a big
flowering myrtle that nearly filled a
window-recess. Letting lier eyes wander
for one moment to the outside greenery
and flower-garden, she was conscious of a
sensation as physically painful as the scent
of the myrtle was physically pleasant.

Yet it was nothing very much out of the
common that met her view  merely Lance
arranging sketching stool and easel on the
green sward below the terrace, under the
shade of a big sycamore, whence a good
view could be had of the magnificent sweep
of mountain scenery without daring the
heat of an afternoon sun.

Now, purely as a matter of commonsense,
Madge ought to have been delighted
at Miss Shore's promptness in endeavouring
to carry out her wishes. And as for Lance,
well, she had seen him scores of times
performing the same office for the numerous
young ladies who had fallen in love with
the mountain scenery, and had forthwith
conceived the desire to caricature it in
wishy-washy colours on a square of pasteboard.


Yet, nevertheless, Madge, as she noted
the graceful, undulating outline of the
dull gray figure against the shining background
of a laurel hedge, and the lingering
assiduity with which Lance adjusted
the easel, had to do battle all over again
with the unaccountable prejudices with
which the very first sight of a beautiful
face had inspired her.

Madge, true to her promise, seated herself
-after breakfast next morning at Sir Peter s
writing-table, informing Mr. Stubbs of her
intention of opening the invalid's letters
and dictating their replies.

Mr. Stubbs, all obsequious attention,
seated himself in his usual place at a
smaller table at her right hand.

Madge's prejudices had made themselves
lea-rd respecting Mr. Stubbs as well as
Miss Shore. She had conceived for Sir
Peter's private secretary an intense dislike,
the ground of which did not seem to be
covered entirely by the fact of her having

discovered him in what appeared to be a
listening attitude.

She had tried to imbue Lance with her
notions, hoping that from his wider experience
of men and their ways she might
get wherewithal to substantiate her shadowy
repugnance to the man.

I am sure he is sly and underhand, "
she had said ; '' and he looks and look
at me whenever he comes near me, as if
he were taking stock of everything I do or
say, or think, even."

Lance had characteristically laughed off
the idea.

I never knew any one like you for
taking fancies into your head," he had
said. "Why, if I lived twenty years in
the house with the man, it wouldn't occur
to me to notice whether he turned his
eyes up or down, this way or that. He
writes a good hand, and he doses what

he's told to do, and what more in reason
scan be expected of him ? "

Madge was not a bad woman of business
when she gave her mind to it. She ran
over one-half of Sir Peter's correspondence
lightly enough, dictating brief and temporary
replies ; Mr. Stubbs's pen failed to keep
pace with her fluent dictating, so, as he
wrote, she continued opening the remaining
letters, and mastering their contents.

One among those Lance had been too
lazy to give his attention to, had an
Australian post-mark.

*' Dear me ! Sir Peter's fame has reached
the antipodes," was her mental comment
as she broke the seal.

But when her eye had mastered the first
few sentences, mental comment she had
none to make, for the simple reason that
her brain was in a state of chaos.

It was a bulky letter, some two or three

sheets in length, but was written in a
round, schoolboy's hand, which rendered it
easy reading.

It was dated from " Rutland Bay Settlement,
Western Australia," and ran as
follows :

Sir,

"I must beg your indulgence for
the liberty I am taking in thus addressing
you. The remarkable circumstances I have
to communicate must be my excuse.

*let me begin by stating that I ama
minister of the Wesleyan persuasion, and
sole spiritual adviser of the rough but
not unkindly miners who constitute the
scanty population of this place ; also that
my statements can be very easily substantiated
by reference to some of the
leading members of the community, whose
names I subjoin.

** Now for my story.

Sixteen years ago, when this settlement
consisted in all of fifty souls, there
occurred during the equinoxes a terrible
wreck on this coast. A vessel went down
with all hands, in the night  at least,
so it was supposed from the spars and
wreckage washed on shore at daybreak.
Something else besides spars and wreckage
was washed up with the tide  a portion
of the mainmast, with a woman and an
infant lashed to it. The woman appeared,
from her dress, to be a nurse ; but she
had been so terribly injured during the
gale that she died as soon as she was
brought to shore. The child was a fine
little boy of about a year old, dressed asa
gentleman's child. His linen was marked
simply with the initials G. C.

All, this, sir, occurred about ten years
before I came to the colony. When I, by

the direction of our Conference, took upon
myself the office of shepherd to these stray-sheep,
this infant had grown into a handsome
boy, and was of so strikingly-refined
an appearance, that so soon as I set eyes
on him assisting the miners in the lighter
portion of the work, I asked the question
:

' What gentleman's son is that ? '
*the miners \vho had sheltered and
brought him up were the roughest set of
men I had ever lived among ; but, for all
that, had treated the boy with the kindliest
consideration, had taught him to read and
write, and had, on account of the extreme
fragility of his health, allowed him to lead
an almost idle life, evidently looking upon
him as one cast in a different mould to
themselves.

*' I took the boy in hand immediately
on my arrival in the settlement, supplied

him with books, and carried his education
as forward as possible.

So much for the boy. Now for the
sequel to my story.

"About six months ago a vessel put inhere,
a Canadian trader, manned by a crew
of divers nationalities. One of the seamen,,
a Scotchman, by name John Rutherford,.
had a strange story to tell. He said that
sixteen years previously he was serving
on board a Mexican passenger-boat, which
had been wrecked off this coast. He, with
some others, had taken to the boats, and,
after many perils, had been picked up by a
Canadian schooner. Subsequently, he had
joined the Canadian merchant service. He
gave full particulars concerning the terrible
wreck of the Mexican boat, and the names
of the passengers, so far as he could
remember them. Among them, he said,
was an English gentleman, a Mr. Grease

VOL. I. N

Critchett, and his wife, a South American
lady, and infant boy, who had hurriedly
taken flight from La Guaya, North Mexico,
on account of an insurrection threatening
there. Eutherford spoke of the father's
despairing agony at his inability to save
his wife and child, of his lashing the nurse
and the boy witli his own hands to the
mast, and of his frantic endeavours to
make his wife leap into the boat as it
pushed away in the darkness. Eutherford
related also, that on the previous night,
when the gale had first burst on them,
Mr. Critchett had taken him on one side,
and, in view of possible danger to himself
and the chance of his child being saved,
had related various particulars concerning
himself  that he was brother to Sir
Peter Critchett, of Upton Castle ; that
his marriage "had been solemnised at the
British Consulate at La Guaya, and his

boy's birth had been duly registered
there "

''Madge, Madge ! "  at this moment said
Lance's voice just outside the door  'rare
you going to shut yourself up with the
ink-bottle all the morning ? Can't you
come for half an hour's canter ? "

Madoe started. Her thoughts were faraway
from Upton, among the wild miners
of Australia, and yet, if the truth be told,
the under-current of those thoughts carried
but one name in their depths  Lance's, and
Lance's only.

Instinctively she jumped from her chair
mind met Lance at the door. It would
have been too dreadful, it seemed to her,
if, without a word of warning or kindly
preliminary hint, he had stood behind her
and had read over her shoulder the story
which gave Sir Peter an heir to his name
and to his wealth.

N 2

I can't ride to-day," she said, steadying
her voice as well as she could. *' I mean
to work all the morning at Sir Peter's
letters, and then I have to drive with
Lady Judith to Lower Upton."

'* How white you look, have yoa a
headache'' interrupted Lance. *look
here, Madge, I want to show you my last
new fowling-piece, it came down by the
first train this morning." And there and
then, outside in the hall, he exhibited his
latest acquisition in deadly weapons, unscrewing
and putting together again its
internal arrangements, descanting meanwhile
in enthusiastic fashion on its vast
superiority over all others he had ever
been possessed of.

Madge's thoughts were in a whirl. It
was with difficulty that she managed to
keep up a fair show of interest in Lance's
talk. She trembled for the safety of the

letter, which, in her haste to intercept
Lance, she had thrown open on the writing-table.


She went back in five minutes' time to
the study to find the letter folded neatly
in half with a paper-weight on top of it.

She flashed an inquiring glance at Mr.
Stubbs, who sat, pen in hand, waiting for
further instructions.

'* The wind fluttered it off" the table," he
said, quietly, by way of explanation. '' The
draught is very great when the study-door
is opened as well as the outside door."

Madge felt the impulse to ask the
question, " Did you take advantage of the
friendly draught and master the contents
of the letter ? " almost irresistible. Her
eyes and flushing cheeks asked it plainly
enough ; but Mr. Stubbs's pasty, expressionless
features made no sign, and his eyes
appeared fixed on nothing at all.

She had no more ideas to bestow on Sir
Peter's correspondence. Everything in life
had shrunk into insignificance beside the
baleful tidings which those few sheets of
closely-written paper had brought.

'* Lance is a beggar !  a beggar ! " Madge
sat in her own room saying the ugly words
over and over again. In good truth, for the
moment she was incapable of any other
thought. The news might be glad tidings
enough to the childless Sir Peter, it might
thrill other hearts with all sorts of pleasant
possibilities. For her it had but one meaning
: the man for whose happiness she
would gladly, at any moment, lay down
her life, was no longer to be the favourite
of fortune which she had delighted to think
him. His sun had set.

Once more she took up the letter,
thinking that she would slowly and carefully

read it from beginning to end, and
see if she could find in it any excuse to
doubt the veracity of the writer.

But the task was beyond her. Her
hand shook so that she could scarcely hold
the thin, crackling paper, and her eyes in
sympathy with her hand got at the evil
sentences in snatches only.

She read a string of names, at the end
of the letter, of those persons who were
willing to vouch for the credibility of the
writer ; the address of John Eutherford,
the Scotch seaman ; then her eyes glanced
higher up the page to where the writer
made an earnest appeal for an immediate
reply. *' For," he said, '* the lad is strangely
disturbed at the thought of having kith
and kin of his own in the dear old mother-country,
and is in a state of nervous
tremor lest his father's people may not see
fit to stretch out the hand of welcome to

iii;" Then away from this her eyes
darted to the signature at the foot of the
page, '' Joshua Parker," and then her hand
dropt to her side, and her eyes refused
to do farther work for the tears that
blinded them.

Outside her room in the corridor sounded
Lance's voice once more in its cheery and
somewhat domineering baritone. What
was he saying ? Something about " my
horses," '' my dogs " ? Evidently he was
giving to his servant a succession of orders
to be transmitted to the stable, for presently
there came, in reply to some Question
addressed to him by the man, a remark
respecting last winter's sleighs. "They
were not worth putting in order. I intend
to have one  two, perhaps  made on quite
another model. The sleigh of the period
is far from being what it ought to be."

A beggar ! a beggar ! " she repeated.

bitterly. This man, born and bred in the
lap of luxury, was to be bidden to go forth
and make his way in the world, or else be
bidden to remain in his old home simply
to play the steward, or live as a dependent
on the bounty of others ! Ah ! would to
Heaven the blow had fallen on her, not on
him. She had been a born pauper ; had
known how to fill the role of protegee, at
least not discontentedly ! If all the Cohen
wealth had disappeared in the night like
so much fairy gold, she could have gone
back to her early life as one '' to the
manner born."

And here Madce's conscience grave her as
sharp a wound as any its barbed arrows
had ever dealt. " Oh, you with your fine
flourish of words," it seemed to say, 'you,
who would pray to fortune, ' give him my
lot and give me his,' why didn't you put
your pride and your vanity under a bushel

six months ago when he asked you to
marry him ? If you had seen fit to do this,
your wealth by now might have been his,
and this blow, though heavy, would not
have been a deadly one."

* If I could but have known ! if I could
but have known I " she moaned, beating her
hands together once more.

Through the gloom of this thought there
struggled a faint ray of hope. The "No"
she had then spoken was not meant to be
final, was not likely so to be unless something
very unforeseen occurred between her
and Lance  here a passing, a very passing
thought was given to Miss Shore and her
easel. Very well, then, her retraction of
that *' No " might be hastened somewhat or
even might be volunteered  so in her impetuous
longing to be of service to him it
seemed to her  without loss of dignity or
womanliness. >

She and Lance were on the best and
easiest of terms ; it would be easy for her to
say : " Lance, my pride and sensitiveness are
Ridiculous, and always have been ridiculous.
I only wish I knew how to trample them
sunder foot and be done with them forever."
Lance, no doubt, would readily
enough see the drift of her confession, and
would speak over again the words that he
had found so easy to speak before.

Till this was done she resolved that she
would communicate to no one the contents
of the Australian letter, and she thanked
Heaven for the fortunate conjunction of
circumstances which had made its hateful
news known to her before any one else in
the bouse.

'elf it were done when 'tis done, then
'twere well it were done quickly," was
Madge's brief summing up of her long hour
of painful thought as she nerved herself to

the doing of a deed that had more than a
spice of heroism in it.

She folded the letter, locked it up in her
desk, and then still farther to ensure its safekeeping,
slipped the key of the desk on to
her watch-chain.

She had to pass a looking-glass on her
way downstairs. She carefully turned her
head away from it. '' No'' she thought,,
if I look in there my courage will begone,
and the words will never be said."

A self-congratulatory thought followed
It was : * I have always said I would give
all the Cohen wealth to be really beautiful.
Now I would not give up the Cohen wealth
for all the beauty under the sun."

And for one brief moment Madge felt
as if she had turned the tables on her
fortune.

She searched in vain for Lance in his
usual haunts ; library, study, smoking-room,.

gun-room, all were deserted. Then she
went on to the billiard-room, hoping for
better luck there; it was vacant like the
other rooms, cool and pleasant, ruled with
bars of light which filtered in through the
half-turned Venetian shutters. Something
else besides those bars of light filtered in
through the shutters, the sound of voices
from the outside verandah.

Lance's voice first caught her ear :
Fate  believe in fate ? Well, yes, in
one way I do. I believe it is possible fora
man once in his life to come upon his
fate in the shape of a beautiful woman."

A beautiful woman ! Madge had no doubt
to whom he was speaking. For one brief
moment she once more balanced the
Cohen wealth against personal beauty.
That woman outside there in the sunshine
assuredly was what nine men out of every
ten would call beautiful ; and she here in

this darkened room had the town and the
country house, the diamonds, and the
horses. If Lance were to hold the scales,
which way would they incline ? A dark
cloud overshadowed her. She struggled
with her jealousy and her prejudices once
more. Of course, the words he had spoken
as mere words were worth nothing. If he
had said them to a man, or to a woman old
enough to be his mother, they might have
been taken as a simple statement of a
simple fact. But spoken to a woman
young enough to be his wife, and dowered
with good looks into the bargain, they would
well, mean just whatever his eyes chose to
put into them ; and she knew well enough
how Lance's blue eyes could double the
meanings of his phrases at times.

Madge went back to her room with her
heroic deed undone.

Sm Peter had a relapse. He was sleeping
so peacefully one evening, that nurse and
doctor, growing confidential over their
patient's idiosyncrasies, fell to congratulating
themselves that the worst of the
illness was over. Sir Peter was always a
picture when he was asleep.

*' He looks that smiling and child-like,"
said the nurse.

** It's such a blessing to see him at rest,"
sighed the doctor.

And lo ! that very minute his head was
ofi" his pillow, and he was out of bed before
any one could stop him, vowing that he
had the cramp in both legs, and must
walk it ofi"."

He has driven in the rash," said the
doctor, trying to explain matters to Lady
Judith, " and may think himself lucky
if he gets about again in three weeks'
time."

Lady Judith heard about one quarter
of what the doctor had said. She only
gathered that Sir Peter, as usual, had been
lively and insubordinate, and wanted taking
in hand.

I'll go up and talk to him," she said,
fanning herself and the doctor very hard.
*'No one knows how to manage him as

I do "

No, no, no ! " shouted the doctor at
her. " He mustn't be worried ; it'll put

him into a fever 1 mean," he corrected

himself," "your fan would give him his
death of cold."

Lady Judith fanned harder than ever.
She only caught the word 'fever."

VOL. I. O

"Fever!" she repeated. 'you told
me distinctly it was measles he had.
You'll be telling me next it is small-pox,
or rheumatic gout, or something else
extraordinary."

The doctor tried in vain to explain.
Being a short man, he got upon tip-toe in
his eagerness to do so.

All in vain ! Lady Judith fanned him
out of the room, and through the hall, and
out at the front door, all the while expressing
her surprise, her " unqualified
surprise, that he had not taken more
pains to diagnose the case before he had
pronounced so decided an opinion in the
first instance. But I don't believe it's
fever  no. If the whole faculty of medicine
were to swear it was fever I wouldn't
believe them. Do you think I don't know
measles when I see it ? There isn't a
disease you could name that I don't

know. So I beg, doctor, if you've any
respect for yourself or your profession,
that you won't come near me again with
the word 'fever' on your lips."

The doctor mentally registered a vow
that he would not.

Before he could get out of ear-shot, however,
he heard Lady Judith announce
with great emphasis her intention of taking
the sick-room under her own immediate
supervision, and of keeping a steady eye
alike on patient, nurse, and doctor.

There followed a rather bad fortnight
for all three.

That fortnight came as a reprieve to
Madge ; it gave her breathing time. It
was a weighty secret that she carried about
with her. For two whole days she had
felt herself almost crushed by it, and had
only by dint of vigorous effort preserved
an outward appearance of calm. Then she



had awakened with a start, saying to herself
that there was no time to be lost, and
thanking Heaven that she was bound in
honour not to communicate the evil news
to living soul until Sir Peter had been put
into possession of it and had resolved upon
his course of action.

Possibly, by dint of vigorous entreaty,
he might be induced to keep the secret
from Lance till a certain definite provision
had been made for him. This she knew,
though it had often been talked about, had
not as yet been done. Sir Peter always
saying that her marriage with Lance should
be the signal for setting the lawyers to
work upon a handsome settlement for him,
so that his income mio-ht be something on
a par with hers. Madge, no longer anxious
to repudiate Sir Peter's mediatorship, was
beginning to feel now that this marriage
and this settlement could, with a very

good grace, be arranged by him before the
contents of the Australian letter were
proclaimed abroad. Once, however, let
Lance know his changed position and
she felt sure that his pride would stand
in the way of both marriage and settlement.


In the meantime, all she could hope todo,
while awaiting Sir Peter's recovery to
health, was to try and keep matters between
her and Lance on that easy, pleasant
footing against which in her caprice she
had rebelled as savouring too much of the
familiar bond of a brother and sister.

A terror that can be proclaimed from
the house-top sits lightly enough. It is
the one that is locked up wordless within
the heart that feeds " on the pith of life'*
Madge's secret told on her good looks.
Even Lance, though he had seemed of late
strangely self-absorbed, noticed it.

*' What is it, Madge  headache ? " he
asked one morning over the breakfast-table,
while Lady Judith, high over their
heads, was delivering an oration on the
degeneracy of the dairy-maid of the
period.

Madge flushed scarlet.

** That means I am looking particularly
ugly this morning," she thought, contrasting
in her 'mind's eye" her own sallow
complexion with the ideally beautiful
colouring of that *' girl in gray."

To divert his eyes, as well as his thoughts,
she made a sudden, abrupt announcement.
It was :

*' I think I shall open my house in
Belgrave Square this year for the half-season."


Now, that '' house in Belgrave Square "
had been a fruitful cause of squabbling
between Lance and Madge.

Whenever she had been particularly
bent on making herself disagreeable to
him, by way of revenge for an unusual
amount of teasing, she had been in the
habit of tightening her lips, and saying, *' I
shall open my house in town this year and
see a little society."

Whereupon Lance had never failed to
reply : " There'll be the mischief to pay
if you do, Madge, unless you set up a
duenna at the same time. You'll get a
mob of impecunious young idiots dangling
after you, and I shall be called
upon to administer a caning every other
week."

To which Madge had never failed to
retort, that "She adored boys  impecunious
or otherwise  and that she had serious intentions
of weeding from her visiting-list
every family where the men were over two-and-twenty."


But there was to be no mimic skirmish
over the town house now. Lance had
drifted into dreamland, and seemed to get
his thoughts back from their travels with
difficulty.

It does seem a pity," he said, a little
absently, " that that comfortable house
should be shut up, and you have to stay
at an hotel whenever you want to run upto
town."

'they won't use their arms, my dear,
that's what it comes to ! And when the
butter isn't what it ought to be it's the
fault of the butter-worker, or the milk, or
the cow, or the clover, or goodness knows
what," flowed in the running stream of
Lady Judith's talk between the two.

Madge, keeping a steady eye on Lance,
saw that not she, nor her town-house, nor
yet Lady Judith's typical dairy-maid, had
a corner in his thoughts. His eyes were

fixed on the garden-picture which the
window facing him framed, with what
seemed to her an expectant look in them.

Shall we ride this morning?" she asked,
suddenly  sharply ; determined to awaken
him to the fact of the existence of such a
person as Madge Cohen, and that she sat
at his elbow

Lance jumped up from the table.

So sorry, Madge  I have to be down at
the kennels in half an hour  now Uncle
Peter is laid by, I'm bound to see to everything
; and when I get back I'm afraid
you'll find it too hot for a canter."

But he did not get down to the kennels
in half an hour's time, for Madge, compelled
to a solitary ramble, and standing for a
moment at the front door to call her dogs
for company, heard his voice in conversation
with Miss Shore, who was seated
on the terrace at her easel.

Miss Shore's broken English reached her
ear first :

I can't do it," she was saying in a
troubled tone. " When I look at these
mountains, other mountains rise up before
me and shut out these. Grander, gloomier
mountains, with one bright evil star shining
out of the purple clouds. I could paint
those  not these."

Well, then, why don't you paint
them?" said Lance's voice in reply.
** They would be bound to be worth
looking at. Paint out what is in your
eyes, and then you'll be able to see what
is outside them."

Then he caught sight of Madge under
the stone porch, reiterated the necessity
that existed for his presence at the kennels
in half an hour's time, and departed in all
but breathless taste.

This little incident, with a divergence of

detail, repeated itself again and again. To
her fancy he seemed to be perpetually
leaving rooms as she entered them, going
out of the house when she came in, and viceversa.
When she wanted to talk he
appeared to prefer silence, and when she
grew thoughtful and reserved he would
suddenly become loquacious and lively,
or, worse still, would stimulate Lady
Judith's powers of conversation to such an
extent, that the room would become intolerable
to Madge with her distracting
burden of thought.

It was no wonder that Madge, with
wits sharpened by the necessity of the
case, and prejudices stimulated by her
jealousy, speedily fixed upon that " girl
in gray " as the likely cause of Lance's
eccentric conduct, and was ready to
anathematise herself for finding pretext
for prolonging the young woman's stay at

the Castle, in weak compliance with
Lance's wish.

It was no wonder, also, that with eyes
once turned in that direction, that " girl
in gray " grew to be an object of special
attention to Madge. she found herself
perpetually watching her, scrutinising her
every action, look, speech, with eager,
yet unsympathetic eyes. And the more
closely she watched her the more of an
enigma she grew to her.

Since the one memorable evening that
Miss Shore had exchanged places with
Madge at the dinner-table, she had not
once sat down with the family to any of
their meals. Her breakfast was taken to
her in her own room with the morning
paper as its invariable corollary. About
luncheon-time she would appear outside on
the terrace with her easel and painting
accessories, and there she would sit until

failing daylight put an end to her work,
when she would go back straight to her
room, where light supper of some sort
was by her orders taken to her.

Madge, looking over Miss Shore's shoulder
once, was surprised at the slow progress
which the mountain picture was making,
in spite of the evident ease and skill with
which the artist handled her brushes and
colours. Half her time she seemed to be
washing off her colours, not washing them
in.

That one occasion of looking over Miss
Shore's shoulder was made memorable to
Madge by the sudden start the girl gave,
and the frightened, yet withal angry look
which swept over her face.

*why do you do it  you startle me?
Come in front if you wish to speak tome
! " she cried, vehemently. And there
and then she removed her chair, placing it

with its back to the house, and leaving
no room for a passer-by.

Madfje related this circumstance to Lance,
watchings his face closely for tell-tale change
of expression.

Lance seemed to feel her scrutiny, and
tell-tale expression there was none.

'* Much ado about nothing, as usual,
Madge," he said, lightly. 'don't you
remember the terrified jumps you used to
give if ever I came behind you at your
singing and joined in a bar or two ? "

"Yes; but I never turned on you as
furiously as she turned on me, or sat with
my chair with its back to the wall so that
no one should ever o-et behind it aoain ! '

Miss Shore, I dare say, is of a very
nervous temperament, and has "

"A guilty conscience perhaps," interrupted
Madge. Then the minute the
words were out of her mouth sherefjretted

them. They would just put another stone
to the wall that seemed to be building
between Lance and herself, and possibly
make that " girl in gray " and her eccentric
doings a sealed subject between them.

"Had a great deal of trouble, I was.
going to say," said Lance, walking away at
his last word in order to prevent farther
parley on the matter.

She came into the house like a shadow,
she falls between us like a shadow ! Would
to Heaven she would depart in the same
shadowy fashion," Madge thought bitterly.

I beg your pardon, Mrs. Cohen, for
intruding," said Mr. Stubbs's voice at that
moment at her elbow, " but I believe one
of Sir Peter's letters, which I handed to
you the other day, had an Australian postmark
on it."

"Yes, what of it?" asked Madge,
sharply, her looks at once betraying the

fact that this letter was of vivid interest
to her.

It was invariably difficult for this young
woman to speak lightly and think heavily.
To look tranquil when she felt like '* a
cauldron stirred by witches," was an impossibility
to her.

'' I merely wished to say," Mr. Stubbs
went on respectfully, " that the Australian
mail goes out in three days, and if a provisional
answer is necessary "

' A provisional answer is not necessary,"
said Madge without a moment's hesitation,
giving not so much as a thought to the
facile, sensitive lad at the other end of the
world, who was in " a state of tremor lest
his own kith and kin should not hold out
the hand of welcome to him."

One way or another, affairs seemed very
much at sixes and sevens at the Castle just
then.

For one thing, Sir Peters illness upset
all their autumn plans  a trip to Biarritz
for Lady Judith and Madge, Lance's grouse
shooting on the Scotch moors prior to a
fortnight's fishing in Norway. For another
the spirit of Queen Mab herself seemed
abroad in the house, and every one appeared
to be doing just exactly the particular thing
that was to be least expected of them.

Madge, embroidery in hand, sat in her
rocking-chair under the " dark-green layers
of shade" of the old cedar on the lawn,

VOL. I. p

watching a whole pageant of fantastic
fleecy clouds sweeping across a deep-blue
sky before a strong current.

'* That's us to the life just now," she
said to herself emphatically, though ungrammatically.
"There's a mermaid 
look at her fish-tail !  riding on a tiger !
There's a big white cat with a Gainsborough
hat on his head. Here I come !
There's a huge four-wheeled triumphal-car
with nothing but a stupid little swan to
draw it. No, that isn't me either. A
swan is a very beautiful creature ; also I'm
not trying to drag anything along at the
present moment ; no, I only wish I could
make one thing stand still  for ever.
Here's a great snow mountain just toppling
over, and there's a poor little bat stretching
out its wings to protect something. What
is it ? A teacup " a pigeon's egg on end ?
That's me to the life  the bat, that is ;

Ugly enough and trying to do impossibilities
with its stupid little wings ! "

Madge's train of thought had been set
going by two little incidents of that day's
occurrence, in which the chief actors had
conducted themselves as uncharacteristically
as could well be imagined.

Incident number one had been a little
speech of Lance's, made a propos of nothing
at all, so far as she could see.

Madge," he had said, with a sudden
energy which set her thoughts ranging
upon wild possibilities, " what an unlucky
beggar I am never to have had a profession
given to me ! Now, supposing I were
ever to offend Uncle Peter in any way,
and he were to cut me off with a shilling,
how on earth could I get my bread and
butter ? I should have to turn either
groom or gamekeeper ! 'Pon my life I
don't think I'm fit for anything else."

V 2

Incident number two had occurred
during the reading of Sir Peter's correspondence,
to which Madge devoted punctiliously
two hours every morning. It
cost her a huge effort to do this, and she
never broke a seal now, without a chill
quaking as to the news that seal might
secure. Mr. Stubbs, as a rule, sat a model
of respectful attention during the reading
of those letters. He never uttered a
syllable unless addressed, when his words
in reply would be discreet and few. On
this particular morning, however, Madge
had no sooner taken her place in Sir
Peter's chair than he began to talk, and
the subject of his talk was himself and his
family.

I have had a letter this morning, Mrs.
Cohen," he began, " which has greatly
distressed me."

"Indeed!" ejaculated Madge, round-eyed

with a sudden terror lest the subject
of the Australian letter might be circulating
from other quarters.

I don't think I ever mentioned the
fact to you that I have a son  Roger byname."


Madge drew a long breath of relief ; her
slight bow, however, in acknowledgment of
the communication, expressed but the faintest
interest in the " son  Roger by name."

Mr. Stubbs, however, felt sufficiently
encouraged to proceed.

This son, I grieve to say, has been one
continual source of anxiety to me. He
has had loss upon loss in his profession 
that of a ship and insurance broker  and
is now threatened with bankruptcy by his
creditors unless I can get together a certain
amount to meet his present difficulties."

Madge was not disposed to invite farther
confidences.

Will a cheque for twenty pounds be of
any use to you ? " she asked, by way of
cutting the matter short.

'* It would be of use, and I should be
grateful for it, Mrs. Cohen," he replied,
drooping his eyelids till the eyes beneath
showed not as orbs but as slits. " But I
hope you won't mind my saying that a
cheque for fifty pounds would be of much
greater use, as the sum we have to get
together is rather a large one."

If the armed warrior in bronze, who surmounted
the clock on the mantelpiece, had
suddenly descended from his pedestal and
asked her to valse with him, Madge could
not have felt more surprise than she did at
this unexpected request. It was not made
in Mr. Stubbs's usually obsequious fashion,
but rather stated bluntly, as a matter of
fact that must be patent to all.

She was always inclined to be free-handed

with the Cohen gold, but she did not choose
to have it demanded of her.

I will think over your request," she
said coldly, as she went back to her letter-reading.


And she did think over his request, as
also over Lance's startling tirade on his
incapacity for earning his bread and
butter; but the only results to her thinking
were the fantastic forms she evolved
from the clouds  a sort of picture-poem of
life at the Castle at the moment.

From where she sat beneath the cedar
she could catch a glimpse between the
shining laurel leaves of an opaque patch of
gray skirt, which at that distance represented
Miss Shore at her easel.

That gray skirt was, as it were, a 
to the wheels of her thoughts
every time it caught her eye; just, too,
when she wanted those thoughts to be

working at their hardest and smoothest.
So she turned her chair slantwise, shutting
it out from her view.

It was too hot to finger her embroidery ;
her silks, a tangle of soft colours, slipped to
her feet on the grass. A faint south wind
blowing over the orchard, brought with it
the scent of ripening fruits. Overhead, the
great, golden, brooding clouds hung low.

Madge, with half-shut eyes, rocked herself
backwards and forwards ; now the
tangled colours of the silks caught her eye,
anon the golden, brooding clouds. Now
the coloured silks were up in the sky, a
many-tinted rainbow ; now the full-breasted
clouds were at her feet, blotting out the green
earth, and transforming the whole garden-picture
into a cloud-fresco in carnations and
azure that Murillo might have painted as a
background to his ascending Virgin.

Those clouds and the rocking - chair

together sent her into dreamland. Her
iyes, full of the sky, drooped.

She opened them, as she thought, in a
beautiful garden ; a garden scarcely to be
realised out of fairy-fable, for the light
poured down from the sky on it like some
great falling rainbow, transfiguring trees,
flowers, and green sward into all sorts of
marvellous hues. Lance stood beside her.

Is this Eden ? " in her dream she
thought she said to him. But even as she
asked the question, a dense, gray cloud
settled down upon the fairy garden like
a great fog, and all the beautiful colours
died under it. It came a misty bulk
between her and Lance, and she saw him
no more. Only his voice, far away from
out the cloud, came, saying, "Madge, Madge,
help me ! "

Madge awoke with a great start. Yes,
there was a voice at her elbow, not Lance's,

however, but Mr. Stubbs's ; and, instead of
begging for her help, he was as usual
making apologies for disturbing her.

"But old Donald, the grave-digger," he
went on to say, *' was here just now
gossiping with the gardeners, and he gave
me this, thinking it minrht belong: to someone
in the house, for there's no such outlandish
name as the one marked on it
known in the village''

As he finished speaking he held out to
her view a lady's pocket-handkerchief It
was trimmed with lace and had the name
Etelka " embroidered in one corner.

Madge scrutinised the lace. It was unlike
anything she had ever seen before 
something of an old Greek pattern worked
in Mechlin thread.

Mr. Stubbs's face said, *' An I would I
could!"

His lips said :

''I told Donald that to the best of my
knowledge no one at the Castle possessed
such a name'*

"Where did Donald find it?" queried
Madge.

'* He said under the yews in the churchyard."


Leave it with me, I'll try to find its
owner," said Madge, always inclined to
abridge intercourse with Mr. Stubbs as
much as possible.

He bowed and withdrew.

Madge sat staring at the handkerchief
with the outlandish name in the corner.

'* There's only one person here likely to
own to that name," she thought. " And
it suits her infinitely better than the plain
English name she sees fit to mask under."

She looked towards the corner of the
garden where Miss Shore had been seated
at the easel. Now should she take the

handkerchief to her at once, ask if it were
hers, and what could be the object of her
solitary rambles in the churchyard ?

Miss Shore, however, together with her
easel, had disappeared. Second thoughts
assured Madge of the uselessness of such a
course. A cold, expressionless " No' without
change of feature, would, no doubt, bethe
only result to the plainly-put question,
'* Is this yours ? "

Better keep it awhile ; find out a little
more about it ; ask Donald himself as to the
exact *' where " and *' when " he had found
it. She was not disposed to trust Mr.
Stubbs implicitly in either small or great
matters, and had no wish to show him
that the handkerchief had any special
interest for her.

'* I beg your pardon, Mrs. Cohen," said
Mr. Stubbs's voice, at this very moment,
"but may I ask if you have had time to
think over my request of this morning?"

Madge's reply was a cold and repressive
**I have not."

Mr. Stubbs again bowed, and withdrew.

He made half-a-dozen steps down the
gravel path and came back again.

"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Cohen," he
said, respectfully as before, " but perhaps
you have forgotten that the Australian
mail goes out tomorrow. If the letter
addressed to Sir Peter is of any importance,
it miorht be as well to acknowledge it."

Madge had it in her heart to ask a string
of questions, such as : " What is this letter
to you ? What do you know of its contents
? How dare you keep thrusting
yourself and your affairs upon my notice."

She controlled herself with difficulty,
saying merely :

The letter requires no acknowledgment
whatever."

Madge had a lonely dinner that night.
A message was brought to her that Lady
Judith had gone to bed with a bad headache,
and that Lance, who had gone out
driving in the afternoon, had sent back
his doer-cart with the intimation that he
should most likely dine with Lady Brabazon
their nearest neighbour  and walk home
afterwards.

Madge as much as possible curtailed her
solitary meal. It was not a particularly
cheerful one, eaten in that big dining-hall,
with the " eight - and - twenty Critchetts
looking down " on her.

After dinner she wandered out to her

favourite twilight haunt  the terrace, with
its grand double landscape of sky and
mountain, valley and plain.

The after-glow lingered yet in sheen of
mother-o'-pearl athwart a limpid stretch
of tender green sky. A veil of night-blue
mist was slowly spreading itself over the
valley, adding a mystery and poetry to it
'which in garish sunlight it never knew.
Madge, without much stretch of imagination,
could have fancied it some land of
enchantment sinking slowly  slowly into
the earth whence it had been evoked by
magician's wand.

Her thoughts, however, in their restless
turmoil soon brought her from the poem
of shining sky and shadowy valley back to
commonplace, hard-featured prose. Lance
was the key-note, the beginning, end, and
middle of those tumultuous thoughts.
The echo of the cry, '' Madge, help me ! "

which she had heard in her dream, seemed
to ring in her ears yet. Help him ! Why,,
her heart was all one prayer to be allowed
to do so. Years ago she had stood on one
side  had thrust herself out of his path, as
it were  by marrying David Cohen, in order
not to mar his future. Should she stand
tamely by now, and see him blight that
future with his own hands ?

Here it was that Madoe no longer
beheld the fading glories of the after-glow,
nor the mysterious valley under its night-blue
veil seeming to sink slowly into the
heart of the earth again. Her eyes instead,
for their own torment, conjured up a picture-gallery
in which Lance's face and form in?
endless repetition did duty for a hundred.
Now he was standing gazing with surprised
admiration at a girl lifting a orav gossamer
veil ; anon he was seated facing that girl
with an intense eager interest shining out

of his eyes. After these came all sorts of
scenes in which his face, together with its
admiration and interest, had a kindly
sympathy and pity written upon it.

At this point Madge's ears became filled
with other voices than those of the thrushes
among the sycamores, chanting their
hallelujahs to the dying day. Lance's
voice, in pitiful pleading for the forlorn
stranger, rang in them instead.

And coming always as a refrain to these
thoughts, persistent as the echo to the
hammer on the anvil, was the bitter self-accusation
that once, not so very long ago.
Lance's fate had been in her hands, and
she had had the privilege of making or
marring it with a single word.

Here Madge's society became too much
for her. A short sharp walk she felt
before daylight closed in, would be the
quickest way of putting an end to that

VOL. I. Q

hateful iteration in her ears of '' Half your
own doing, Madge Cohen, half your own
doing."

The handkerchief with the foreign name
on it afforded her a pretext for a ramble.
Old Donald, the grave-digger, as a rule
spent his summer evenings in St. Cuthbert's
churchyard, trimming graves or sweeping
paths. She would like to put to him
direct a question or two as to the finding
of this handkerchief. Old Donald had
keen eyes and ears ; perhaps in addition
to answering her questions, he might be
able to give her some little information
as to when and for what purpose Miss
Shore haunted the old burying-place.

It was a walk of about half an hour that
Madge proposed to herself. She made
that half-hour twice its length with the
fancies she crowded into it. Like the
old Indian, who painted a vivid picture

of the little man who stole his venison,
together with the bob-tail dog, merely
from seeing a foot-print in a dusty road,
Madge constructed a whole life history for
Miss Shore out of the name embroidered
on the pocket-handkerchief, which had not
yet been identified as hers.

St. Cuthbert's church was built on a
rocky headland about a mile and a half
distant from the Castle. It commanded on
its western side a magnificent view of the
rolling Irish Sea, whose rough breezes had
battered its gray walls for close upon two
hundred winters. On its eastern side it
was reached by a steep winding road
direct from the valley. The larches, which
drooped stately branches here and there over
the stony path, had gone to a dusky olive
tint as Madge wound her way upwards.
At the end of the road the low, gray
stone wall of the church showed bleak

Q 2

and bare from out the deeper gray of
shadowy waving grass ; above it, the
stone tower rose a dark square against
the yellow zone which belted the
horizon.

The place of tombs looked weird and
desolate as Madge entered it. The sea-wind
blew over it, ruffling the long grasses
on one or two forgotten graves, and setting
a group of aspens that over-shadowed the
loch-gate whispering and shivering. There
was not a sign of old Donald anywhere.
Madge wandered in vain down the by-walk
which skirted the low, gray wall. An owl
flew from out the tower with a harsh cry,
an old yew  black against a white tombstone
 creaked in the sea-breeze. Other
sound there was none.

Madge felt that she had had her walk for
nothing. Twilight was falling rapidly now ;
the gold had died out of the yellow zone

which belted the horizon ; a white ocean -
mist  itself a great silver sea  came surging
up behind the church-tower. Overhead
here and there in the limpid gray of the
sky, a star, like a tiny diamond spark,
would catch the eye, twinkle  vanish 
shine out again.

Madge turned her face towards the lydgate,
thinking the sooner she got back to
the house now the better. She had walked
a, little of the bitterness out of her thoughts,
but somehow  she could not say exactly
how  the sadness in them seemed to have
deepened. She felt tired  chilled by the
mist and the weird loneliness of the place.

"Good times, bad times, all times passover,"
she could fancy those voiceless dead
were preaching to her from under their
grassy mounds.

How still the graveyard seemed to have
grown ! She could hear the wilt wilt of

the bats as they flitted in ghostly fashion
round the belfry window. Even the light
fall of her step on the gravel seemed to
waken echoes from the other end of the
long, dim walk.

But were those the echoes of her owen
tread ? Madge asked herself, pausing under
the shadow of a tall monument, white
against the gray of the sky.

The sound of voices, which came nearer
with the supposed echoes, answered her
question in the negative.

Madge, prompted by impulse, rather than
by any definite purpose, shrank behind
the tall, white stone as two long, dark
shadows, falling athwart her path, heralded
the approach of a man and woman. Their
voices came to her clear and distinct
through the , stillness of the evening air.
JMadge's ears needed not to be told who
were the owners of those voices.

*' Lance and that girl in gray !" she said
to herself. And after that the dead might
have crawled from under their grassy
mounds, and in their grave garments have
preached their sermon to her ; but she would
not have heard one word of it.

Lance was evidently in as light-hearted
a mood as usual. " We're early," he was
saying as he came along. " ' There's husbandry
in heaven, their candles are '  not
yet lighted. Last night we had better
luck."

Last night, last night ! " repeated Madge,
a great wave of jealous anger sweeping
over her. ** That was why, then, he did not
come into the drawing-room last night I
why he gave short, absent answers to my
questions, and looked and walked like one
in a dream."

For a moment the dim churchyard and
ghostly white tombs grew misty to her.

Her ears even refused to perform their
work, and Miss Shore's answer was a blank
to her.

Not so Lance's next sentence. His voice
in nearer approach rang like a clarion in
her ear. It was :

"I haven't forgotten a word of what
you taught me last night. I know which
are the benefic planets and which the
malefic ones, and I know that all the malefic
planets are setting and all the benefic
ones are rising. And that means that
those who have hitherto been unlucky
will forthwith begin to have a real good
time of it, and those who have been in luck
before will be luckier than ever."

Miss Shore's voice in reply, by contrast
with his light tones, sounded grave to
absolute solemnity.

Why do you laugh in the face of fate
as you do ? Evil stars are rising, not

setting. You may be born to good luck 
I do not know  but others are born to ill-luck
 to be evil, to do evil. It is no
laughing matter.

There was one behind that tall tombstone,
at any rate, who found it no laughing
matter.

Lance's tones suddenly changed to an
earnestness that sat strangely upon him.

** You are right," he replied, " there is a
time to laugh, and a time to weep ; and
I'm confident if I knew one quarter of the
ill-luck you've had to go through, I should
feel far more inclined to weep than to laugh
over it. But you won't give me the chance !
You keep your lips sealed ; you reject help ;
reject sympathy even."

He was standing still in the middle of
the path now facing his companion.
Madge could have stretched out her hand
and touched him as he stood.

The words themselves expressed naught
beyond the kindliest sympathy. Madge
herself  any Sister of Charity  might have
spoken them to any poor, forlorn outcast
who came in their way. But they would
not have sounded as they did on Lance's
lips. He put another soul into them with
his eager, heated, impassioned manner.
That, not Madge nor any woman living
could have so much as mimicked.

Miss Shore's pale face flushed into sudden
animation under it. Her words came
hurriedly, nervously, not with their usual
cold, slow emphasis.

You do not understand," she answered.
My ill-luck is not a thing past and done
with, I take it with me wherever I go ; it
is written here," here she touched the palm
of her hand. " An evil star is in the
ascendant now, in three weeks' time  three

weeks from to-night  it will be in opposition
to my ruling planet." She broke
off for a moment, then added in solemn,
though still tremulous tones : " If that day
passes over my head in peace I will talk
no more of fate, no more of ill-luck. I will
look up at the stars and will laugh in their
faces."

Lance, 111 undertake never to do it
again. No  not if I live to be a
hundred."

It was Sir Peter's first day downstairs.
He was getting a breath of fresh air and
*' a little exercise," by walking up and
down the big inner hall of the house,
every one of whose long Gothic windows
stood wide open.

Lance, on his way through the hall,
had stopped to congratulate the old gentleman
on his release from the sick-room.

'* No, I dare say you won't do it again 
catch the measles I suppose you mean. It

would be rather difficult to have them a
third time, wouldn't it ? " he said, in
response to Sir Peter's energetic assertion.

** No, no, no ! That goes without saying.
I mean get out of bed again in the
middle of the night to walk off the cramp.
I say. Lance ? " this was added in a tone
that signalled an interesting communication
at hand.

Yes, what is it ? " answered Lance.

Sir Peter walked on tip-toes to the door,
looking right and left, came back again
and peered out of one of the windows.

"Down at the farm," said Lance,
answering the action as well as the look
on the old gentleman's face, which said
plainly as words could, "Where is she?"

Sir Peter drew a breath of relief.

Broughton has ordered me away  to
complete the cure,' he says, and  and 
and Lady Judith insists on carrying me

off into Devonshire on a visit to some of
her people ! "

''Oh, well, if she insists, there's no more
to be said. Submit, and be carried off."

'' But  but I don't intend to be carried
off, and, what's more, I won't be carried
off. No, I won't  I won't," said Sir Peter,
irritably, working himself into what Lance
was generally pleased to call a 'tucker."

"Well, then, I should say you won't,
and stick to it if I were you."

Yes, yes, of course, exactly. That's
what I intend to do," said the old gentleman
with dignity, as if it were his
invariable custom to treat Lady Judith's
behests with out-spoken resistance. " And
I was thinking, Lance, that a little trip to
town with you  say for a week, or ten
days  would be far more likely to do me
good than a dreary fortnight in the wilds
of Devon."

'' Town in August 1 Hugh ! "

Sir Peter read his own wishes into that
shudder. '' Well, of course it would be a
little hard on you to ask you to lose a
week, or ten days, of Madge's society," he
began slily.

But Lance interrupted him. '* Get that
notion out of your head at once and forever,
Uncle Peter'' he said, peremptorily.
*' Pve told you a dozen times over that
Madge hasn't the faintest liking for me, and
that I don't intend to worry her any more
on the matter." He broke off for a moment
to give time for the sly look to die on Sir
Peter's face. Not a bit of it, it remained
as steadily fixed on his happy, infantine
features as if it had been stereotyped there.
*stalk away, my boy," it seemed to say.
'* But, for all that, I know what I know."

Lance grew more and more exasperated.
*look here, Uncle Peter, listen to reason."

he began. Then he checked himself. As
well talk logic to the eight-and-twenty
Critchetts who smiled down on them from
the walls as to Uncle Peter, with that wise
look peeping from under his eyelids, and
that sugary, benignant smile curving the
corners of his mouth. Besides, a sudden
idea had at that moment occurred to him.
A few days in town alone with Uncle Peter
would suit very well a plan that was
hatching in his brain.

The notion that he was " an unlucky
beggar," because he had never had the
chance of a career in life offered him, had
not died so soon as he had given utterance
to it to Madge. On the contrary, it had
been slowly gathering strength. What he
had said to Madge he was in effect repeating
to himself in one form or another all
day long: "Suppose I were to offend
Uncle Peter utterly, irretrievably, and he

were to cut me off with a shilling, how on
earth should I get my bread and butter ? '"'
It would be a splendid idea to get Sir
Peter all to himself for a day or two, and
have a little serious talk with him on one
or two matters.

So he mastered his inclination to combat

Uncle Peter s wise look and sugary smile,

and instead said, a little condescendingly,

-perhaps, "Make it three days in town, and

possibly I may be able to manage it."

Sir Peter rubbed his hands gleefully. *' I
felt sure you would when you thought it
over ! You see at the longest we can't be
away very long. My birthday, as you
know, will be on the twenty-first. Well, I
must be home at least a week before that
to see that everything is going on all right
people want so much looking after  do
you remember last year that tent suddenly
giving way at one corner  that was the

VOL. I. R

only one I hadn't given an eye to while
they were driving the pegs in. It's wonderful
to me, truly wonderful that "

Let's get back to ways and means,"
interrupted Lance, striding after Sir Peter,,
who was just completing his thirtieth
measurement of the long room, and now
stood in the door way. " Look here,.
Uncle Peter, let's have a trot together,
and arrange our affairs while we take our
exercise. Now, then ! what if Aunt Judy
insists on accompanying us ? "

But the mere susorestion of such a
possibility brought Sir Peter to a standstill
at once.

'not to be thought of for a moment,"
he said with a fine air of decision. " She
would have to be reasoned with. You
might do it, Lance  you have great
influence, very great influence, I may say
with her. You might explain to her

that  that she couldn't very well be away
from Upton just now with so much to
arrange for  for the ball on my birthday
that Madge would be lost without her
that her farm just at this time of year
requires "

"I have it ! " interrupted Lance. *' The
farm's the thing! you write to that man
in town who keeps her supplied with
farm implements, and tell him to send
down the latest sweet things in incubators
or butter workers. And then tell that
other man at Carstairs to send over a dozen
or two of Soudan and Crave-coeurs, and
what's that other leggy sort Brahmans ?
That'll do it. The poultry will have to
be dieted, and the machines will have to
be tested. We're all right now, Uncle
Peter!"

Lance's suggestions, with modifications,
were adopted. Lady Judith's eyes were

R 2

gladdened one morning by the arrival of
a small van-load of farming implements,
and before the glow of pleasure caused by
their unexpected appearance had time to
subside, Lance and Sir Peter had packed
their portmanteaus and departed.

So thoughtful of Lance. Sir Peter tells
me it was entirely his idea," said Lady
Judith to Madge as she carried her off
to the farm to inspect the new purchases.
*but there, he is a good fellow at heart 
IVe always said so  in spite of his heedlessness
and want of respect for his
elders ! "

Madge was disposed to hail this trip
of Sir Peter's as arranged by a special
interposition of Providence. She had crept
out of her hiding-place in the churchyard,
and had made her way home through the
twilight shadows with but one thought in
her mind  that Miss Shore's visit at the

Castle must be brought to au end with as
little delay as possible. The absence from
home of Sir Peter and Lance seemed to
render this idea comparatively easy of
accomplishment. She would take matters
into her own bauds as soon as they were
gone, tell the young lady that she had
altered her mind as to the decoration of her
boudoir, pay her handsomely for what
pictures she had already done, and speed
her heartily on her journey to " the North,"
whether it were to the region of the Arctic
Pole or merely to that of North Britain.

Lance would come home and find that
the mysterious guest had departed. " Out
of sight out of mind," Madge reasoned
hopefully with herself. No love-making
so far as she knew had passed between
the two, although a very fair prelude to
love-making appeared to have been sounded.
She stifled the angry jealousy that threatened

to rise up in her heart with the thought
that the occasion was not worth it. Once
let this mysterious and attractive young
woman disappear from the scene, and
Lance would return to his former allegiance
to herself, and things no doubt, by the
help of Sir Peter, would be happily arranged
between them.

She had come to the conclusion that,
until Sir Peter's return, she would not
hand to him the Australian letter. Among
Sir Peter's numerous child-like propensities
was that of proclaiming aloud in the
market-place every secret whispered into
his ear. He might promise her a thousand
times over that Lance should know
nothing of this newly-found heir until
matters were satisfactorily arranged, and
the Cohen wealth as good as handed over
to his keeping ; but once give Sir Peter
up to Lance's sole influence, as would bethe

case during a week's stay in town, and
his promises would be as tow, or as the
green withes wherewith Samson was bound.
After Lance's future had been definitely
arranged, she would, she said to herself,
do penance for her subterfuge by making
a full confession to Sir Peter, explaining
to him the motives of her action.

So Sir Peter came downstairs, fingered
his correspondence, sent the study carpet
a little farther on its road to ruin, made
the house lively with bell-ringing ; in fact,
effected generally a transformation-scene
wherever he shed the light of his countenance,
and finally departed in company
with Lance. And the little key which
represented a mighty secret hung still
on Madge's watch-chain, and the burden
of the untold tidings lay heavy on her
heart.

I hope your sketches are getting on

satisfactorily, my dear," said Sir Peter to
Madge, as be jumped into the dog-cart and
took his seat beside Lance. He glanced
in the direction in which Miss Shore and
her easel were generally established. " Nice
young woman that ! Nice to look at ;
nice to speak to ! Wish she'd be a little
more communicative though  did my
best yesterday to draw her out about
herself and her people  she must have
people of some sort you know  but
couldn't succeed "

Chickabiddies all right, Aunt Judy ? "
interrupted Lance, catching sight of Lady
Judith's advancing figure. But his eyes,
to Madge's fancy, went wandering over
Aunt Judy's " head in the same direction
as Sir Peter's.

Sir Peter had another " last word " to
say. It was :

*' You'll see to my correspondence while

I'm away, Madge, and it's bound to be all
right. You've a capital head for business,
though you won't acknowledge it."

The words stung Madge like so many
hornets.

Why should I be made to do an unworthy
thing ? " she had said to herself two
nights before in St. Cuthbert's churchyard,
as she resolutely trampled under foot
the burning desire to play the listener a
little longer. Yet, as the echo of Sir Peter's
words repeated itself in her ears, she felt
herself to be doing a very unworthy thing
in thus withholding his private correspondence
from him.

For Lance, for Lance," she said to
herself, hiding her face in the thick fur of
old Roy's tawny coat. "We'd die for him
you and I  wouldn't we, Eoy ? "

Eoy, understanding perfectly, licked
first her hand inside and out, then her

cheek and behind her ear by way of
response in the affirmative.

And we hate her  both of us, don't
we, Roy?" she went on. 'rand we'll do
our best to get rid of her ! But, oh dear,
what if she won't go  cries and says she
has no friends, or hangs about the place till
Lance comes back, and then begins her
wiles once more ! "

Here Roy  like all well-bred dogs, a
master of the art of thought-reading 
once more expressed canine sympathy.

Oh for a counsellor ! " she sighed. " If
I could but turn you into Balaam's ass and
get a word of advice out of you, you dear
old thing ! "

Speak of an angel and you will hear
its wings," says the proverb. Madge's
sigh for a counsellor was answered so soon
as it was out of her mouth, though not by

the rustling of wings  by the slow, soft
footsteps of obsequious Mr. Stubbs.

I am so sorry to disturb you, Mrs.
Cohen," he began, after carefully shutting
the door behind him. " I merely
wished to say that when I handed Sir
Peter his letters yesterday morning I did
not say a word about the important letter
you have to give to him."

An important letter ! How did this
man know it was important, and what did
he know of her motives in keeping it
back ? Madge wondered, staring at him
blankly.

Yes, that was right," was all she dared
to say, however, hoping that he would
consider himself answered and depart.
Not so he. He stood in front of her,
surveying her calmly through his half-closed
eyes.

I beg your pardon, Mrs. Cohen," he
began, " but have you given a thought to
my little request of the other day, respecting
my poor boy and his embarrassments ? "

Madge was no match for this man, with
his effrontery and cunning. Partly from
the wish to get rid of him, partly from
fear lest he might betray her secret, she
rang the bell and desired her maid to
bring her cheque-book.

Mr. Stubbs was profuse in his thanks ;
they flowed in an unctuous stream, like
oil from a pierced olive.

Does he think I am going to give him
a thousand pounds," thought Madge, contemptuously.
Her pen paused at the
figures it was about to write.

"You said ?" she queried, looking up at
him .

'* I said fifty pounds," he replied without
a moment's hesitation ; " but if you

would make it seventy, madam, I should
be infinitely obliged to you."

Madge's pen, after a moment's pause,
traced the words that transferred seventy
pounds from her banking account to Mr.
Stubbs's purse.

"There," she thought, 'i'm paying him
handsomely for keeping my secret for a
few days. But Til take good care that
Sir Peter gets rid of him so soon as things
are arranged a little."

Mr. Stubbs stood in front of her, cheque
in hand, executing a series of profound
bows.

'* You may count on my deepest gratitude
 my life-long gratitude, madam," he
said aojain and assail.

Madge's formal bow of acknowledgment
was intended as a signal of dismissal. He
did not so take it. From thanks he
passed on to proffers of service.

'*If I caa at any moment be of the
slightest service, you may rely on me,
madam."

And then he suddenly dropped both
thanks and proffers of service, came a step
nearer to Madge, gave one furtive glance
at the door, and said almost in a whisper :

Does it not strike you as a very extraordinary
thing, madam, that Miss Shore
should be invariably so anxious to see the
morning papers ? "

Madge fixed contemptuous eyes on him.
It was easy to read his meaning. It was :
I am willing enough to do any amount
of dirty work for you provided you keep
your cheque-book always handy."

Why should I be made to do an unworthy
thing ? " was the indignant cry
that once more rose up in her heart. Hard-pressed
as she might be for counsellors, it

was not to such a creature as this that she
would apply for aid.

*' I have never given the matter a
thought," was her reply, in tones so frigid
that Mr. Stubbs could not but feel himself
dismissed, and withdrew accordingly.

CHAPTER I.

*why should I be made to do an unworthy
thing ? Why cannot this thing,
in itself right and expedient, be accomplished
by honest, straightforward
means ? " reasoned Madge with herself on
the day following Sir Peter's departure, as
she thought over her emphatic rejection of
Mr. Stubbs's obsequiously-offered services.
She had risen that morning strong in
her resolve, not only to further what she
conceived to be Lance's best interests in
life, but to do so by means which consorted

VOL. II. B

with her own honesty of purpose and integrity
of heart. Miss Shore should be
told simply and plainly that her services
as an artist were no longer required, and
that it would be esteemed a favour by herself
and Lady Judith if she would as soon
as possible continue her journey to the
North.

Lady Judith must of course be previously
consulted on the matter ; so Madge adverted
to it across the breakfast-table.

Her remark, however, fell literally on
deaf ears. Lady Judith had come down to
breakfast with no less than five telegrams
in her hand, and a tirade against Lance on
her lips. She had quite forgotten that " he
was a good fellow at heart, and that she
had always said it," and now remembered
only his " heedlessness and want of respect
for his elders." Four out of the five
telegrams had been despatched at different

stages of Sir Peter's journey to town, and
simply reported that he was " getting along
all right ; " the fifth had been sent the
first thing that morning, just to show that
he was up and doing. As, however, the
first four had arrived at Lower Upton
overnight too late for delivery, the whole
five had been brought in a batch to the
Castle the first thing that morning.

Lady Judith tossed them all contemptuously
across the table to Madge.

You may read just whichever you like
first, my dear," she said. " It doesn't in
the least matter which. One properly-worded
telegram would have done for the
whole lot. Will you tell me that that
young man ever lifts his little finger to
keep Sir Peter from making himself
ridiculous ! It's my belief if Sir Peter
ever settles down quietly for ten minutes,
he isn't happy till he has set him goings

2

again. And now that they're both away
together, with no one to look after them,
what will happen goodness only knows ! "
And so forth.

Madge, so soon as a pause occurred,
tried to brings the talk round to Miss
Shore.

All in vain. Lady Judith, bent on Sir
Peter's misdoings, continued her harangue.

He'll be sixty-three on the twenty-first
of this month, and will you tell me
he has one whit more sense than a boy of
sixteen ? Philanthropy do you call it ? "
(Madge, by way of diversion, had remarked
that the veal-and-ham pie on the table
was particularly good.) *' A nice sort of
philanthropy that is, which lays burthens
upon other people's shoulders, and straightaway
forgets all about them ! Now 1 wonder
how many incapables he'll . pick up in
London streets this time to bring back with

him. I jean only hope that the wagonette
will be big; enough to seat them all."

And once upon the topic of proteges.
Lady Judith did not let it go until the
whole army of Sir Peter's waifs and strays
had been passed in review. The squinting
stable-boy, the bow-legged gardener's lad,
the poultry-maid who would have been " in
her right place picking oakum in a model
prison, instead of tending prize-bred poultry
on a model farm." And last, but not least,
there was that young woman *' who sits all
day long in front of an easel doing, so far
as any one can see, just nothing at all,
who occupies one of the best bedrooms 
and I shall want every one of the bedrooms
on the west side of the house for the
twenty-first  and who won't condescend to
give any account of herself or her belongings,
but conducts herself as if she were
an empress with her pedigree before the

world. But I do think, my dear, now that
Sir Peter is away and not likely to make
a fuss on the matter, that you might just
pat a question or two to the young lady as
to the length of time her sketches will be
likely to occupy. I would interrogate her
myself, but she mumbles so I can't hear a
word she says. Is she Irish or Welsh do
you think ?  ah, be so good as to open that
window, the room is stifling!"

Madge rose with alacrity from the table.
I will go this very minute and speak to
Miss Shore about her sketches, and if she
is not down I will go to her room," she
said, scarcely crediting the fortunate chance
which made Lady Judith's wishes so
thoroughly at one with her own.

At the door, however, leading into the
hall, she was intercepted by Mr. Stubbs
who, instead of his usual look of carefully
achieved expressionlessness, had "important

information to give," plainly written
upon his features.

May I speak with you, madam ? " he
said. His manner emphasized his request ;
it seemed to add : " At once and in
private ? "

Madge led the way to Sir Peter's study.
Mr. Stubbs carefully shut the door behind
him. " It's about Miss Shore," he began.

Madge slightly bowed, but remained
standing. "Whatever this man has to
tell shall be told quickly and be done with
it," she said to herself.

Mr. Stubbs noted her wish for conciseness
and fell in with it. " One mustn't quarrel
with the knife that spreads the butter on
one's bread," was his way of looking at the
matter.

*' I drew your attention, madam, to Miss
Shore's eagerness to get the morning papers
so soon as they came into the house. Today

I have discovered the reasons for this
eagerness," he said.

'Stop," said Madge, *let me ask a
question. Do these reasons in any way
concern me ? If they do not I must ask
you to refrain from communication to me
whatever you may have discovered. I take
no interest in Miss Shore or her private
affairs."

Mr. Stubbs did not reply immediately.
It required a good deal of courage to
answer this question point-blank, and nothing
but a point-blank answer would suit
his purpose.

Presently he got together sufficient
courage for the ve'p\j :

"It concerns you, madam, so far as the
happiness of Mr. Clive concerns you. It is
easy to see that he takes the deepest interest
in Miss Shore."

Madge flushed scarlet. How she would

have enjoyed ordering this man out of the
room ! But all she said was " Go on," in a
low nervous tone.

Mr. Stubbs went on.

'since Miss Shore has taken to reading
the papers so assiduously, I have taken
care to have duplicates of every one sent to
the house. All the same I send up every
morning to her for the preceding day's
papers, telling her that I file them for
reference. This morning the papers were
sent down to me with one torn at one of
the corners, together with the message that
Miss Shore regretted very much that she
had torn the paper accidentally. Naturally
I refer to my copy of the paper
that Miss Shore had torn ' accidentally and
in the torn column I find this paragraph''

Here he unfolded a newspaper which he
held in his hand, and spread it before
Madge on the table, indicating a paragraph.

Madge read as follows :

"The little fishing village of Santa Maura,
on the coast of Corsica, has been thrown
into a state of excitement by a singular
attempt at murder. The intended victim
was a Count Palliardini, who was staying
at a little chalet he owned anion gf the
mountains. The murder must have been
attempted by some one well acquainted
with the Count's habit of sleeping during
the early part of the evening. While he
thus slept, it seems the wine which stood
beside him on a small table had poison put
into it, and on awakening and drinking it he
was seized with all the symptoms of narcotic
poisoning. Thanks, however, possibly to
the insufficiency of the dose and to the
promptness of the remedies administered, he
recovered. The strangest part of the story
remains to telL The Countess Palliardini,
the Count's mother, was seated just within

the door of the house with her back to the
light. She had not lighted the lamps, she
stated at the judicial inquiry, because it was
too hot to do anything but fan herself and
eat sweetmeats. As she sat thus in the
twilight she chanced to lift her eyes to
a mirror which hung over the stove-place
facing the door. To her great surprise she
saw reflected in it, not only the shadowy
trees of the garden, but also the face and
figure of a woman, who must have been
standing immediately outside the door.
For the moment she was too startled to
move. When she recovered herself and
went out into the garden the woman was
gone. Up to the present moment the
police have been unsuccessful in their
endeavours to discover the perpetrator of
the crime."

Madge drew a long breath as she read
the last word. That Miss Shore and this

would-be murderess were one and the
same person she did not for a moment
doubt. In the light thrown upon it by
this paragraph, the young lady's mysterious
conduct since her coming to the Castle
seemed easy enough to understand.

It is monstrous ! incredible ! " she said,
not addressing Mr. Stubbs, but uttering
her own thoughts, and moving towards
the door as she spoke with the newspaper
in her hand.

Mr. Stubbs stood between her and the
door.

May I ask what you intend to do,
madam ? " he said.

"Do!" replied Madge, hotly, 'there is
only one thing to do. Go straight to her,
tell her we have found out who she is, and
advise her to get out of the house as
quickly as possible. '*

Madge had a fine reputation in the

county for a kind heart and a generous
temper ; but if at that moment she could
by lettres che cachet have consigned that
"girl in gray" to a cellar-prison, there
was little doubt but what she would gladly
have exchanged that reputation of hers
for that of the Pompadour.

"Pardon me, madam, if I suggest a more
prudent course. We know who she is 
you and I that is  but it would be difficult
to impress other people with our convictions
as matters stand at present ! "

How the " You and I " grated upon
Madge's ear even in that moment of
excitement.

"What do you propose doing, then ? "
she asked, curtly.

I propose to make the young lady convict
herself, and of her own free will take
flight from the house and keep out of our
way  out of Mr. Olive's way," this was

said with a furtive but keen look into
Madge's face, which once more sent the
blood mounting to her brow.

'you see it is just this," Mr. Stubbs
went on after a moment's pause, "I have
farther evidence to produce ; but all the
same it is not evidence that cannot be disputed,
and if we make a martyr of the
young lady, and other persons"  here
another keen look into Madge's face 
** choose to constitute themselves her
champions and contest that evidence, we
simply put ourselves in an ugly light and
the young lady into a favourable one."

Again that odious ''' We ! "

'* But there is no room for doubt on the
matter," Madge cried. '* She comes into
the house under an assumed name ; she
refuses to give an account of herself; she
dares not look into a mirror ; she is eager
for the daily papers ; she tears out a paragraph

that might criminate her. No one
in their senses could refuse to believe such
evidence ! "

'ris a man in love ever in his senses?"
said Mr. Stubbs, coolly, and now looking
Madge full in the face.

Madge winced at his words but dared
not grow furious at them. They might be
true ! Heaven only knew !

My dear madam," Mr. Stubbs went on
when he saw that his words and look
combined had done satisfactory work,
'' every one of the circumstances you have
mentioned could be explained, by any
romantic, pitiful story the young lady
might choose to concoct. You might
suggest our handing her over to the police
on the strength of our suspicions. That
would be simply to make stronger still her
claim to sympathy. It is more than likely
that the police could not substantiate any

charge against her, for there is nothing
said in this paragraph as to the Countess
Palliardini's power to identify the face she
saw. No, no, my dear madam, take my
advice ; you want this young lady turned
out of the house as soon as possible, as
quietly as possible, as finally as possible.
Let us make her eject herself. I have a
plan to propose "

Madge here cut short his sentences with
the abruptly-put question : " What is the
other evidence of which you spoke just
now ?"

Mr. Stubbs drew from his pocket a roll
of cardboard, which he spread before
Madge on the table.

On it was sketched in water-colours,
slightly and roughly, a mountain, at the
base of which was a small country house.
A gloomy sky had been lightly washed in,
and high over one of the mountain peaks

shone out a bright star. The foreground
of the picture was unfinished.

Mr. Stubbs watched the changes in
Madge's face as she looked at the sketch.

'* Do you remember, madam," he asked,
that Mr. Clive on one occasion advised
Miss Shore to paint out what was in her
eyes so that she might be able to see what
was outside them ? "

Madge stared at him. " It was said in
my presence," she answered, *but you were
not there."

I was just behind the Venetian blinds
in the billiard-room, and could not help
hearing the remark."

Madge, remembering a certain occasion
on which she had been an unwilling listener
behind those self-same blinds, could say
nothing; to this.

'' Miss Shore followed Mr. Olive's advice.
Two days afterwards I found this sketch

VOL. II. O

among some others in a less advanced
stage in a waste-paper basket which a
housemaid was bringing across the gallery
from Miss Shore's room."

*' Across the gallery from Miss Shore's
room ! " repeated Madge, almost dumb-foundered
at the deliberate system of
espionage which, these words revealed.

In the course of my chequered career,
madam, I have occasionally found wastepaper
baskets to be mines of hidden treasures,"
said Mr. Stubbs, answering the
thought written on her face.

Mado-e wondered whether, "in the course
of his chequered career," he had served his
time in a private inquiry office, but did
not express the wonder.

"You will observe, madam," he went
on to say, "that this sketch was torn in
half, and that I have pieced it. together at
the back. No doubt, after Miss Shore, in

pursuance of Mr. Olive's advice, had made
two or three such sketches, she found herself
able to paint not what was in her mind, but
what was before her. She had no other
object than this in making these sketches,
and consequently destroyed them when
finished. Now, if you will be good
enough to turn your attention once more
to the paragraph we have just been reading,
you will see that in it are mentioned
mountains, ravines, and a small country
house  all are in this picture. The time
given for the attempt at murder is the
early evening, in other words, the twilight.
This is a twilight scene  look
at the star fully painted out, though
the picture in other parts is merely outlined."


"Yet," cried Madge, 'ein the face of all
this you tell me we have not evidence
sufficient to convict this young woman of

c 2

an attempt at murder to the minds of
people who have a fair amount of commonsense."


'has a young man of seven-and-twenty,
supposing that he has eyes in his head,
much common-sense at command in the
presence of a beautiful, mysterious, and
forlorn young woman ? "

Madge winced again ; yet her commonsense
was forced to admit the truth of
Mr. Stubbs's remark. Beauty, mystery,
forlornness, had been the three-fold cord
that had drawn Lance to the side of "that
girl in gray''

Let me repeat," said Mr. Stubbs,
noting how the allusions to Lance hit the
mark, 'That the most effectual way of
finally getting rid of this young lady will
be to make her eject herself. If you can
spare me another quarter of . an hour I
will fully explain my plan to you. It is

the result of careful thought, and I trust
it may meet with your approval."

But Mr. Stubbs must have miscalculated
the healthiness of the project he had to
unfold, or else he and Madge must have
had other subjects of conversation, for not
fifteen minutes, no, nor yet fifty, saw the
end of their interview.

It was close upon luncheon-time when
Madge came out of the study. She looked
downcast and thoughtful. If Lady Judith,
as they sat at luncheon together, had used
her eyes with as much energy as she did
her tongue, she might have seen that
Madge ate next to nothing, and that she
toyed incessantly with a small key that
hung upon her watch-chain as if its presence
there were an irritation to her.

At the end of the meal she had a communication
to make which not a little
surprised Lady Judith. It was :

I have been thickirig again over the
matter ; and, if you don't mind, I should like
Miss Shore to finish the water-colours she
has begun for my little room. She can't
be much longer now over them ; a fortnight,
I should say, would see them
finished."

It was like a statue coming to life  a
carven lump of marble suddenly kindling
into human warmth and colour. Madge
could at any moment as soon have pictured
Old Cuddaw himself, descending from his
height, walking up the garden-path and
graciously bidding her 'good-morning," as
Miss Shore so far condescending. Yet
that was what happened. And not only
did the young lady condescend to the
greeting of common life, but she absolutely
displayed for Madge's inspection the watercolour
drawing on which she had been so
long occupied, asking for her opinion
on it.

It was a spirited sketch. Miss Shore
had caught the purple tone of the landscape
together with the golden glow of summer
sunlight. If it had been drawn by another
hand, Madge would have gone into raptures
over it.

It is pretty," was all she said by way
of praise. " I will, if you will allow me,
see how it looks against the wall hang-kings
of my room."

These wall hangings of the little room 
an octagon, opening off the inner hall 
were of chrome silk. The landscape, hung
sideways to the light, was strikingly
effective.

I suppose'' said Madge, turning to
Miss Shore, who held the sketch in its
place, ' I must give up the idea of more
than one other, the same size. You are
not quick with your brush."

She looked up at the girl's face and then

for the first time noted the change that one
clay had wrought. Ten years seemed to be
effaced from it, the marmoreal hardness of
the features had disappeared, a faint flush
of colour tinged the white cheeks, the gray
eyes were shining. Madge's long look no
doubt seemed to repeat the remark she had
made as to Miss Shore's artistic capabilities.

'' I am not always so slow," she replied,
** but I was fit for nothing when I came
here first."

Fit for nothing ! " repeated Madge, still
eyeing the girl keenly.

*' Yes. I was weak  I was ill. I could
not eat  I could not sleep, naturally I could
not paint."

Madge felt inclined to ask whether a
certain paragraph in the preceding day's
paper had not had something to do with
the young lady's increased power of eating
and sleeping ; but restrained herself

I shall be glad to lieve a companion
picture to this," she said. " A sketch of
the valley if you will undertake it."

And then she looked and looked at her
again, saying to herself: "A statue coming
to life  marble glowing: into flesh and blood
that's what it is."

But not alone in Miss Shore's face and
manner was the change perceptible ; Madge's
maid, in her morning attendance, reported
another wonder  that the looking-glasses
in Miss Shore's room had been uncovered
and appeared to be in use, and that the
young lady had frequently of late asked her
advice on the matter of hairdressing, and
appeared to have suddenly awakened to the
fact of the insufficiency of her wardrobe.
This last statement was confirmed by Miss
Shore expressing a wish one morning to be
driven into the village, as she had sundry
small purchases to make.

Madge watched her drive away in the
little pony carriage, in and out among the
shifting shadows of the larches and sycamores.
She noted that the gray gossamer
veil was tossed back, as if the wearer
enjoyed the greeting of the bright sunlight
and mountain breeze, and that the young
lady, as she sat, was turning to the man
who drove her, as if asking him questions.

'would to Heaven she would never
come back ! " Madge prayed in the bitterness
of her heart. The bitterness ended
in a sigh. If Lance had been so fascinated
with the ice-cold, shadowy maiden, what
would he be in presence of such glowing
flesh and blood loveliness as this !

AYeigh your wealth against her beauty,
Madge Cohen, and see what it is worth,"
she cried aloud to herself, bitterly.

Sir Peter's stay in town had been prolonged
beyond the three days to which

Lance would fain have limited it. The
old gentleman once on the wing was not
to be easily persuaded to settle down again.
"I can't feet him back," wrote Lance to
Madge, " he's here, there, everywhere ; I
might as well try to catch ether or salvolatile
and get it into a railway-train as
Uncle Peter. Town is a wilderness ; there's
nothing on earth for a man to do, yet his
hands are full from morning till night. I
should run down to Cowes or to Exmoor
for a day or wto, only I aren't leave him
lest he should get into mischief. For one
thing, I'm confident I've kept him out of
the mumps. I missed him suddenly the
other morning, and started in pursuit
immediately. I traced him first to the
telegraph office ; I knew he had a lot todo
there  off and on he has almost lived
there lately  thence, I hunted him down
to the boot maker's  he's always wanting

boots, you know  and finally, to my horror,
found him down a blind alley attempting
to adjudicate between two little dirty boys
who were fig-htinoj over their marbles.
Both of the little imps had their faces tied
up, and had a generally puffy appearance
about the jaws. * Uncle Peter,' I shouted,
if there is anything to be caught you'll
catch it, depend upon it. Think of your
birthday ! Fancy receiving a deputation
with your face tied up ! ' And so I dragged
him away."

With Sir Peter in so active a frame of
mind, Lance had found some difficulty in
making an opportunity for the little serious
talk with him, which he had planned.
From morning; till nio-ht the old gentleman
was never to be found alone. He received
the secretaries of his pet charities at breakfast,
the members of their committees at
luncheon, and as a rule dined with, or

received at dinner, certain clerical magnates
who chanced to be in town. At the odd
moments which occurred between his meals
he was either inspecting orphanages, or
reformatories, or immersed in charity
reports and subscription-lists.

Lance had rehearsed over and over
again a little speech which ran somewhat
as follows : " Uncle Peter, you've always
said that on the day Madge and I get
married, you'll set aside a certain definite
property from which I can draw a certain
definite income. But supposing that match
never comes ofi"! What then?"

To get opportunity, however, to make
this little speech was another matter.

He seized a chance that presented itself
one morning when Sir Peter, suddenly
looking up from his papers, said :

I shall get Madge to put down a handsome
life - subscription to this ' working

boys' refuge.' Lie might spend a couple of
thousand yearly on charities and never
miss it. Her income is princely."

Lance caught at the last words. *I
don't believe there's a prince in England
with half her fortune ! Don't you think
it's a trifle presumptuous, on my part, with
no independent means of my own, to aspire
to a marriage with her ? "

Sir Peter smiled up at him benignantly.
My dear boy, you're too modest ! Your
future is as assured as a man's can well
be. You know  I've often told you  you
stand in the position of an only son to me.
And it strikes me, even if it were not so,
that you'd stand comparison in Madge's
eyes with the biggest millionaire in the
kingdom. Ah, lend me your pencil a moment,
I don't understand these figures 
there's something wrong with this balance-sheet
 I'll tot it up again ! "

Again and again Lance beat about the
bush, but all to no purpose.

Supposing you'd had a son, what would
you have done with me?" he asked abruptly
on another occasion.

''Eh, what?" And Sir Peter pushed
his spectacles high up on his forehead and
said, 'eh, what?" again, before Lance's
meaning dawned on him. " Well, my
boy," he said at length, " I suppose you'd
have followed your father's profession 
been out in India by this time, and have
led much such a life as he did. By the
way, Lance, it occurs to me, seeing that
you belong to a service family, that your
name ought to appear on the Military
Asylum committee. I'll get you nominated,
and you can "

"No, I can't," interrupted Lance. "I'm
not cut out for that sort of thine." And

then he took his hat and made for his
club, fearful lest, willy-nilly, Sir Peter
would drag him into one of those stuffy
committee-rooms, in which so large a portion
of his own time was passed with entire
pleasure.

It was not until the morning of their
return to Upton that Lance contrived to put
the momentous question, *' What then ? "
after its due preamble of " supposing Madge
does not feel inclined to marry again ! "

But it was absolutely out of the power
of Sir Peter to realise such a possibility as
this. ' A young woman, at her age, to
remain single all her life ! Impossible, incredible
! Tell me at once that she means
to turn nun ! " he exclaimed.

** Well, put it another way," said Lance,
impetuously, speaking on the spur of the
moment. " Supposing that I were not in-vol.

II. D

lined to settle down and marry just yet,
what then ? "

"What then!" cried Sir Peter, aghast.
"My dear boy! My dear boy!" He
jumped nj) from his chair and began
walking up and down the room very fast.
Then he stood in front of Lance, his eyes
at first very bright, and then suddenly
altogether as dim. *' After all these years
my most cherished hope ! Impossible 1 "
He beoran his favourite heel and toe movement
as if on rockers. '' My dear boy !
Don't say it again ! Impossible ! "

After this, Lance thought it prudent tolet
the matter drop for a time.

Lady Judith had fidgeted a good deal
over Sir Peter's prolonged absence.

It's my belief, my dear, that Sir Peter
has got into mischief of some sort, and
Lance as usual has stood by and enjoyed
the fun," she said to Madoe.

But as the days slipped past, and Sir
Peter's birthday approached, the note of
complaint swelled to a louder tone.

Most inconsiderate  most thoughtless
of them both!" she exclaimed. ''I don't
like to say what I think of such conduct ;
but any one who gives the matter a second
thought must know how much their absence
throws on my hands just now. The
house will be full in a day or two  as
many men as women to entertain. There
are all sorts of final directions to give
about the villagers' sports, and the tenants'
dinner. I ask you, Madge  is it possible
for one brain to undertake the arrangement
of all these thugs, in addition 
mind, I say in addition  to other subjects
for thought ? "

Madge did not pay much heed to Lady
Judith's laments. She appeared at that
moment to be wholly absorbed in the

D 2

completion of the decoration of her little
octagon sitting-room  an occupation in
which, strange to say, Mr. Stubbs's assistance
had been volunteered and accepted.
He it was who supplied her with the name
and address of a man at Carstairs  an
"art-decorator" he styled himself who
came to the Castle to take Mrs. Cohen's
orders.

They were very simple. A long,
narrow looking-glass was to be fixed in
the wall facing the door, and a certain
picture, which Mrs. Cohen had commissioned
an artist to paint, was to hang-immediately
opposite. It was imperative
that the room should be finished by the
twenty-first, as it would be in use on the
night of the ball.

SiE Peter and Lance returned to Upton
three days before the old gentleman's
birthday.

"Why a man at his time of life should
insist on keeping his birthdays at all, passes
my comprehension," Lady Judith was in
the habit of saying, as the yearly festivity
came round.

All things considered, however, the
wonder was rather that Sir Peter, like the
schoolboy intent on plum-cake, did not
insist on keeping his birthday twice over in
the twelve months. The general racket
and fussiness of the whole thing suited him

amazingly. The deputations from the
tenants, the village sports, bonfires and Lcll-
ringing, were an inexhaustible source of
delight to him ; the constant demands for
his personal presence, for his attention to a
thousand and one things at the same
moment, sent him into ecstasies, and gave
colour to his inner conviction, that he was
the life and soul of things generally.

He came back from his holiday trip with
Lance, looking very radiant, and evidently
prepared to enjoy everything. The wagonette
was not required to bring the two
from the station, as it had been on so many
dire occasions when Sir Peter had paid
flying visits to the metropolis, and had
returned encumbered with stable-boys or
gardener's lads.

*' No proteges this time," Lance telegraphed
to Lady Judith on the morning of
their return ; * but lots of lugafe. We've

spent a good deal of time in toy-shops
lately."

Yes, there was a stood deal of luQ-orao-e.
Even Madge, who was accustomed to travel
about with a haystack of trunks and dress-baskets,
exclaimed at it as she saw it un-carted
at the door.

Presents of shawls for the old women,
pipes for the old men, bushels of toys for
the children, something for you, Madge,
something for Aunt Judy  nobody forgotten
! " exclaimed Lance.

Nobody had been forgotten ; and there
was one box in which Sir Peter showed a
good deal of interest, and which, as the
other boxes where carried to their destination,
he desired to be placed for the moment
in the hall.

*' Madge will do it best  you ask her,"
he whispered to Lance.

"No, you ask her," whispered Lance

back again. " Madge thinks a great deal
more of your requests than she does of
mine."

Madge, a few yards off, heard this
remark, and came forward, asking :

What is expected of me ? "

Sir Peter addressed Lance ao-ain :

You explain ; you know how it all
came about."

"No, you do it," said Lance. "You've
a much greater command of language than
I have."

Sir Peter cleared his throat. " Well,
my dear," he said, addressing Madge,
you see this is a season of rejoicing
for us all. Pve got well through a very
nasty illness, and "

"Haven't caught anything fresh in
town," suggested Lance. 

"Exactly; have come back in excellent
health "

Laden like Santa Glass at Christmas
time' again suggested Lance.

Exactly ; shawls for the old women,
pipes for the old men."

Corals and gutta-percha toys for the
babies  nobody forgotten," said Lance.

No, nobody forgotten inside or outside
the house," chimed Sir Peter. 'rand it
occurred to us, for Lance, 1 may say,

shared my feeling on the matter " Here

he looked at Lance, hoping that he woiild
take up the thread of the narrative. Lance
remained dumb, however ; so Sir Peter
went on again :

It occurred to us that  that at such a
time of rejoicing, no one should be forgotten
inside or outside the house "

You've said that before," said Lance.

"Ah, have L Well, it occurred to  tous
"

You've brought a present for Miss

Shore?" asked Madge, jumping, as she so
of ceil did, at a possibility.

"Exactly, exactly, my dear," said Sir
Peter, much relieved now that the truth
was out. " Lance said to me "

'' No, you said to me," said Lance.

Well, I said to Lance, * I don't suppose,
coming into the house in the unexpected
way in which she did, that the young lady
will have with her any dress suitable for
the twenty-first,' and Lance said to me,
It would be a crying shame for a handsome
young woman like that not to make
her appearance at the ball.' And so, my
dear, the long and short of the matter is,
we went to your dressmaker in Bond
Street, and left it in her hands to send
down a dress fit for the occasion."

Had the choice been given him. Lance,
in Madge's hearing, would sooner have
had the former than the latter speech put

into his mouth. For some reason, however,
he did not attempt to modify Sir Peter's
statement.

The question is now," Sir Peter went
on, cheerily, " how to present the dress to
the young lady without hurting her feelings.
Of course it would come better as a gift
from you than from me."

I couldn't do it  it would be impossible
 quite, quite impossible," said ]\[adge
in a very low tone of voice, and with far
more earnestness of manner than the occasion
seemed to warrant.

"You always do that sort of thing so
cleverly, Madge," put in Lance.

"You may be sure, my dear, the dress
will be everything it ought to be," said Sir
Peter, mistaking the cause of Madge's
reluctance to present his gift. " I saw
Madame Claire herself, and she said that
nothing remained to be done to the dress

that your maid couldn't do. It's a beautiful
colour, a soft gray. Lance was very
particular on this matter "

I couldn't do it. No, no, it would be
quite impossible ! " broke in Madge. Then,
to avoid further discussion, she went back
to the music-room and opened her piano.
It would be Judas-like," she said to herself,
as she began to practise her singing
with a great deal of energy in a very high
key.

May I speak with you, Mrs. Cohen ? "
said Mr. Stubbs's voice over her shoulder,
before she had been three minutes at the
instrument.

What is it," asked Madge, letting her
fingers glide into the quickest and loudest
of Cramer's exercises.

I merely wished to say that tomorrow
the Australian mail will be delivered, and
to ask for instructions in case a second

letter may arrive for Sir Peter with the
Rutland Bay post-mark."

No answer from Madge. Only her
fingers threatened to trip each other up
with the speed at which they travelled
over the keys.

Mr. Stubbs waited patiently.

*' What have you to propose ? " at length
she asked in a low, nervous voice, but still
not lifting her fingers from the keys.

*' If you wished it, madam, I would put
any such letter on one side, until after the
twenty-first," he said, respectfully.

*' Wait till one comes," was all Madge's
reply, and then her fingers glided from
Cramer's exercises into Weber's " Hilarity,"
which she executed at double-time, with
the loud pedal down.

Madge," said Sir Peter, coming into
the room at that moment, * where is Miss
Shore ? I've been all over the garden in

search of her. I want to know how your
sketches are getting on."

Mr. Stubbs disappeared. Madge was all
attention at once.

'' The sketches have resolved themselves
into a pair only, one of which is quite
finished. I dare say Miss Shore is in the
billiard-room, she has been at work there
lately  the weather has been so wet. You
know she gets the same view of the valley
there as she does from the terrace."

All this she said with her eyes fixed on
the piano keys. For the first time in her
life she dared not look her benefactor in
the face.

Sir Peter vanished, but was back again
in two minutes.

*' There's not a soul in the billiard-room,"
he said as he came along.  ** And where is
Lance ? I have a hundred and one things

I

to consult him about; everything, everyone
seems all behindhand "

Madge recollected that she had seen.
Lance pass outside the windows towards
the conservatory. It occurred to her in a
flash of painful thought that, where he was,
it was possible Miss Shore might be.

A glass door at one end of the drawing-room
commanded a view of this conservatory
and gave admission to it. Madge led
the way thither. Sir Peter followed her a
step or two, then he remembered that he
had forgotten to inquire after the health
of his butler's mother, who suffered from
rheumatic gout, and forthwith he flew
ofi" in an opposite direction, to set the
library bell ringing, in order to have his
mind set at rest on the matter.

The conservatory at the Castle was a
large one, and was arranged rather with a

view to general effect than for the exhibition
of choice flowering plants, as such.
Seen from the drawing-room it was just a
lovely tropical garden, where big flowering
shrubs formed triumphal arches with palms
and tree-ferns ; and glowing cactuses wove
a bowery ceiling with luxuriant passionflower
and the moon-convolvulus of Ceylon.
A lemon and white macaw strutted majestically
over the tesselated floor, scolding at
the flies as it went along. A majolica
fountain threw upward to the glass dome
a sparkling jet of water, which caught the
sunlight as it fell back into its basis among:
the broad-leaved Japanese lilies, and the
flashing o"old and silver fish. Beside this
fountain stood the two of whom Madge
was in search. Lance's fair, handsome face,
though at one with the beauty of his surroundings,
seemed to have its markedly
Saxon type emphasized by them. Not so

Miss Shore. Among: roses ia an English
garden, she looked the foreigner she was ;
here among the palms and the cactuses she
seemed to be in her own country. Those
large, lustrous eyes of hers recalled the
fire of the stars in a southern sky ; that
bandeau of jet-black hair seemed to demand
magnolia or myrtle for its rightful crown

Was that what Lance was thinking, for
he had drawn downwards a heavy bough
of a flowering myrtle-tree ? Miss Shore's
hand waved it on one side as if she would
have none of it.

'' You hate the scent ! " Madge could
hear him say, *' from association, I suppose :
It must recall some scene, some person you
hate  that I can understand."

Madge, fearing to play the listener,
opened the door and went in. Miss Shore
turned with a start. Her face was flushed ;
her eyes brilliant. Madge, who had seen

VOL. II. B

that same face look a cold, expressionless
adieu to Lance and Sir Peter, as they set
off for London, could only marvel over its
transfiguration.

Lance did not start ; there was evidently
no intention on his part to hide his predilection
for Miss Shore's society.

'miss Shore has been telling me of her
early days in  in " he paused.

Miss Shore did not fill up the blank.

Madge felt disposed to suggest ** Santa
Maura," but forbore: *' Norway, Greenland,
Finland ? " she said, sarcastically.

'* Absurd," cried Lance. " Say the North
Pole at once ! * In the South,' you said,
didn't you, at any rate where magnolia
"

'where 'the cypress and myrtle are
emblems of deeds that are done in their
clime,' " said Madge, to all . appearance
carelessly, but with keen eyes fixed

on Miss Shore. She started, flushed
red, then grew deathly pale again. '' I
hate that land. I would forget it," she
said in low, nervous tones, halting and
stumbling over her words. " My father was
born in this country, and my father's
people are living now up in the North."

In the South." '' In the North." Evidently
the young lady did not choose to
localise, with greater exactitude, either her
own place of birth, or the home of her
father's people.

'you will go to them v/hen you leave
here ? " queried Madge, with a meaning
hidden from the two who stood beside her.

That is a far-away day at present I
hope," interrupted Lance, hastily. His
eyes also were fixed, though not with the
expression in them that Madge's had, on
Miss Shore's face.

Miss Shore answered his words, not his

E 2

?!!!?SLtTYOffui

look, for her eyes were bent upon the
water-lilies in the fountain. " Who knows ?"
she answered, absently. " If I say I will
go here, go there, do this, do that, fate
may say *No' to me."

Lance gathered the water-lily on vhich
her eyes were fixed. Look at him she
should !

He presented the flower to her. *' Fate
is just another word for circumstances to
my way of thinking," he said. '*' Some
people rule them, some are ruled by them.
Personally, I have found the second method
an easy and agreeable way of getting
through life."

Miss Shore toyed with the flower.

'* Fate rules circumstances as well as
people. There are some who from cradle to
grave never have a chance given them "

She broke off suddenly, turning her head
away. Her voice had a wail in it.

Madge did not hear that wail. The only
thought her senses brought home to her, was
that the heart of the man she loved was
being won by the woman she hated.

Her eyes blazed, her face grew pale, but
words she had none.

The sudden opening of the conservatory
door which led into the garden let in a rush
of fresh, outside air. It let in something
beside  Lady Judith's voice in gradual
approach.

If he would but believe that the world
could get on without him," she was saying
as she came along ; and there could be no
doubt to whom the *him" referred. "Now,
I ask you, can there be any necessity for
him, so soon as his feet are inside the house,
to set all the bells ringing, and messages
flying in all directions, telling everybody
that things are all behindhand, and must be
hurried forward as fast as possible. Johnson"

(the house-steward) "has been sent
for, and had a hundred and one directions
given him. He even seized, upon Gordon"
(the housekeeper) "as she was coming from
my room, and told, her, ' he hoped she
would see to the airing of the spare beds
herself '"

Here Miss Shore quietly slipped away.

Lady Judith followed her with her eyes
out of the conservatory, and then went on
again :

A positive insult to a woman who has
done her duty for twenty-five years in the
house as Gordon has ! Then he minors foro



the butler "

"But  but," interrupted Madge, " has he
done all that in something under ten
minutes ? He was with me just now."

Lady Judith turned to Lance.

"If only you could have kept him
another day in town, it would have been

another clay of peace for us all," she said,
quite forgetting her former lament.

Lance slipped his arm into hers.

Aunt Judy, let's go down to the farm
together; I want to see the latest sweet
thing in cock-a-doodles you have on view'
he said.

And Lady Judith was all smiles and
 complaisance at once.

Madge stood among the palms and
myrtles, looking down into the clear basin
of the fountain, with its floating lilies and
flashing fish. Her "heart to her heart was
voluble." "Lance, Lance," she thought,
would you hate me could you know what
I am doing for your sake?"

A shadow fell upon the sparkling water
and gleaming fish. It was Mr. Stubbs
approaching with a key in his hand.

"I have brought you the key of your
sitting-room, madam," he said. " I thought

you would wish it kept locked till the night
of the ball. Everything is finished according
to your orders."

Madge took the key. '' Everything?"
she queried.

Everything, madam. And the door
need not be unlocked until the morning of
the twenty-first, when it will be unhinged
and removed, and curtains substituted."

He turned to go. Madoe called him
back.

'one moment," she said. 'you are
confident that this is the best, the most
effectual way of  of doing this thing ? "

"I can see none better, madam''

"And you charge yourself with her
departure  that is, with seeing her out
of the house, and on her road to her people
*in the North,' wherever that may be?"

*' I do, madam."

Stay a moment. You may want

money. It had better be in gold. If I
write you a cheque for  for ? "

A hundred pounds, madam ? "

Yes, a hundred pounds ; can you get
it cashed without exciting suspicion ? "

I will do my best, madam," said Mr.
Stubbs, as he bowed and departed.

Later on that day Madge was to have
another glimpse of Miss Shore.

Dinner was over. Lady Judith had as
usual fanned herself to sleep on a couch in
the drawing-room ; Sir Peter and Lance
had gone together to one of the farm
meadows to inspect the arrangements that
had been made for the villagers' sports
on the day following the ball ; Madge,
a little wearily, was crossing the gallery
on the upper floor on her way to her
room. A cool current of air, meeting
her half-way thither, told her that one of
the gallery-windows was open. Outside

this window the stone parapet formed a
narrow turreted balcony, and, kneeling
there in the dim twilight, was a woman's
figure. It was easy enough to identify
her long, graceful outline. Her hands were
clasped, her face was upturned to the night-sky
with an eager, questioning look on it.

The Cuddaws stood out in defined gloomy
grandeur against the deej translucent blue
of the summer sky, one sharp, jutting crag
cutting a segment ofi" a great, golden
harvest - moon that was slowly sinking
behind it.

High above both mountain and moon
there shone out, among the legions of
stars, one glittering planet. On this the
kneeling girl's eyes seemed fixed. Her
lips moved. *' Have mercy, have mercy,"
she said, piteously, as if she were addressing
a livings human beinir.

Madge's heart at that moment must
either have been of marble coldness or
one quick fire of jealous love, for she went
on her way with her purpose unshaken.

How I'm to get into it, my dear, I
don't know," said Lady Judith to Madge,
as together they inspected an elaborate
arrangement of crimson satin and lace
sent down by her London milliner.
*' They've absolutely squeezed me into a
yard at the waist, as if I were trying to
make myself into a girl in her teens, when
they know perfectly well that I've been
a yard and an inch for the past fifteen
years ! "

It was the morning of Sir Peter's birthday
; bells were ringing  from St. Cuthbert's
old tower ; the district generally had
broken out into flags, triumphal arches,

best clothes, and a whole holiday. A
delightful air of liveliness and bustle pervaded
the Castle ; guests were arriving by
every train, the well-trained servants went
about with a more animated tread, as if
their minutes were of value to them. As
for Sir Peter, rosy and radiant, he was
here, there, and everywhere, now at the
front of the house, now at the back ; yet,
strange to say, whenever he was wanted
he was nowhere to be found. Servants
seemed to be perpetually running after
him  in at doors, out of windows  his
movements being so rapid that it was rather
a difficult matter to overtake them.

If he'd only keep in one room for half
an hour we should all know what we're
about," sighed Lady Judith, when she had
finished her lament over her dress.

Madge, is it going to rain, do you
think ? '' said Sir Peter, at that moment

putting his licad inside the dressing-room
door.

*' Good gracious! You were in the garden
half a minute ago. I saw you myself superintending
the rolling of the gravel paths,
or the lawn-mowing, or perhaps it was the
stoning of the Power-beds ! " cried Lady
Judith, sarcastically.

The weather appeared to be very much
on Sir Peter's mind that day. It was
among the few things utterly beyond his
superintendence, and he was proportionately
anxious on the matter.

Uncle Peter, Uncle Peter," sounded
Lance's voice at that moment outside the
door. " Are you anywhere to be found ?
You are as difficult to catch as the fluff
ofl" a dandelion ; I've sent half-a-dozen
servants hunting all over the grounds for
you, and now I hear your voice up here*'

Wanted again ! Another deputation ? "

said Sir Peter, gleefully. "Dear me, dear
me ! What with one thing and another, I
shall be worn to fiddle-strings before the
day's over 1 The end of it will be I shall
have to give up keeping my birthdays,
they'll be too much for me  eh, Madge ? "

Give up keeping his birthday ! There
was but little fear of Sir Peter doing that
till he gave up himself and went into
his grave.

Mado;e had come downstairs in the morning
with such a white, tired look on her
face that every one had overwhelmed her
with inquiries as to headache, neuralgia,
or such possible ailments. Later on in
the day, however, as the demands on her
time increased with the arrival of the guests,
her cheeks grew so flushed and her eyes
so bright, that people altered their minds
and complimented her on her good looks.

Between thirty and forty of the invited

guests were to be accommodated at the
Castle on a two or three days' visit. Lady
Brabazon and other near neighbours had
filled their houses in anticipation of the
yearly festivity. The inn at Lower Upton
had been hired from top to bottom by
Sir Peter, and special trains were to run
throughout the night from Carstairs for
late arriving or early departing guests.

Young Mrs. Cohen was always greatly
in request at this annual festivity. Naturally
enough she was looked upon as Lady
Judith's representative, and as it was a
much less fatiguing matter to carry on
conversation with her than with the elder
lady, she frequently found herself overburthened
with confidences intended for
Lady Judith's ear.

Even Miss Shore followed suit in this
matter.

*' Will you tell Lady Judith how grateful

1 am to her for her handsome present ? "
said that young lady's voice suddenly over
Madge's shoulder. " I never can make her
understand me  she asks me always, 'Are
you Scotch or Welsh ? ' "

Made was having a brief fiYQ minutes'
rest in the cool, darkened library, where she
knew she would be within call if wanted,
and where was her only chance of quiet if
such were to be had that day.

She started at the sound of Miss Shore's
voice, shrinking from the young girl as
heretofore Miss Shore had shrunk from her.

Miss Shore repeated her request :

Will you thank Lady Judith for the
beautiful dress she sent me yesterday by
her maid, and for the help she allowed her
maid to give me in arranging it ? "

Madge immediately guessed the truth of
the matter, and giving honour to whom
honour was due, saw Sir Peter's minister-vol.

II. F

ing hand alike in the manner as in the
matter of the gift.

It is Sir Peter who should be thanked,
I think," she said, coldly.

A sudden idea occurred to her.

"Now that I have the opportunity of
asking, will you tell me how much I am in
your debt for the picture you have been
good enough to paint ?" she asked, a little
formally.

Miss Shore coloured slightly.

'* The pictures are not finished ; one is
only half done," she answered.

If you do not mind I would like to
pay for the one that is finished  for the
two if you like. It makes no difference tome."


Again Miss Shore flushed. Madge, in
her own mind, could not help contrasting
this with a former conversation she had
had with this young lady on the subject of

pictures. Then she had been warmth,
and Miss Shore had been ice. Now, the
cases seemed reversed.

'' It is as you like," she began, hesitatingly.

'twenty, thirty, forty pounds?" queried
Madge.

''Oh no, no," exclaimed the girl. '*I
could not  would not "

I dare say you would like it in gold ? "
interrupted Madge. " I haven't so much
loose money now. I will ask Sir Peter to
lend me some. Wait here, please, till I
return."

But to find Sir Peter was a thing not
easy to accomplish, although not a minute
before he had put his head inside the door,
and had told her that, " The wind was
getting round to the south-west." Madge,
however, appeared to have strong reasons
for wishing to discharge her debt. She
hunted high, and she hunted low, and

F 2

eventually lighted on Mr. Stubbs, who,
it may be inferred, from the ready manner
with which he supplied her with gold, had
already cashed her cheque for a hundred
pounds.

Miss Shore was not alone when Madge
returned to the library. A screen shut the
door off from the rest of the room. As she
entered behind this screen Madge heard
Miss Shore's voice concluding a sentence :

I will thank Heaven when the evening
is ended ! "

To which Lance's voice replied, laughingly
:

"Have you been looking at the stars
again ? I would like to tell them to mind
their own business, and not trouble themselves
with our affairs. But it's the beginning,
not the end, of the evening I want to
talk about  the first valse, don't forget 
you've promised to give it me."

The last sentence was said, not whispered,
as Madge crossed the room towards them.

Miss Shore believes in the ruling of the
planets, Madge, in these days of seamen
ordines and electric-lighting I Can such a
thing be credited ? "

Madge did not reply. Instead, she
beojan counting her sovereigns on a table in

o o o

front of Miss Shore.

Ten, twenty, twenty-five," she said.

Miss Shore laid her hands over the gold.
They were trembling ; her face was flushing
; her eyes seemed  could it be possible ?
swimming.

*'No, I will only take ten. I would

not take that only " She broke off

abruptly.

"I do believe the older one gets the
younger one feels," said Sir Peter s voice,
gradually approaching from behind the
screen. 'snow, isn't this sweet  isn't this

touching, I ask you ?  ' Presented, by the
children of the infant-school of St. Cuthbert's,
to Sir Peter Critchett, as an expression
of their love and duty.' That's what
the label attached says. Now, I ask you
all, isn't it worth being sixty-three years
of age to receive such a tribute as this ? "

He stood in the middle of the room
with an enormous nosegay in his hand. It
was entirely composed of cottage-garden
flowers, such as orange-lilies, columbines,
marigolds, and in size was about the circumference
of a small umbrella.

He had evidently been repeatedly enjoying
the fragrance of the flowers, for a
portion of the pollen of the lilies was
transferred to the tip of his nose.

Sir Peter could scarcely have expected
an affirmative answer to  his question from
any one of those three young people
assembled there. He rarely, however,

expected answers of any sort. He walked
up and down the room about half-a-dozen
times ; asked Miss Shore a variety of
questions concerning her sketches ; catechised
Lance as to the dancing capabilities
of certain of the younger men who had
arrived that morning ; finally directed
Madge's attention to the generally cloudy
appearance of the heavens ; and then
vanished.

All this in about a minute and a half.

Madge recommenced counting her sovereigns.


Lance made an impatient movement,
and walked away to the window.

Miss Shore stood for a moment looking
the gold to Madge's face, from
Madge's face to the gold.

Madge grew restless under those furtive
yet questioning glances.

** Shall I take this gold from you ? " they

'' There goes Lancelot Clive, but for the
special interposition of Providence," said
Lance, suddenly, from the window recess
where he stood looking out into the
grounds.

Madge's eyes followed his and rested
upon a groom coming up to the house in
company with a gamekeeper.

Where, who, which ? " she asked, a
little bewildered.

Whichever of the two you like. Upon
my life, Madge, if I were turned out into
the world tomorrow to get my own living,
I don't know how I should do it except by
grooming or gamekeeper ! " he answered
as he left the room.

Could it have been the sight of Miss
Shore being paid for her pictures that had
aroused in him the thought that he had

even less capacity for earning a decent
livelihood than she ; or had he been suddenly
seized with an altogether inexplicable
wish to be independent of Sir
Peter's bounty and patronage ?

But whatever mioht have oivcn rise to
the thought, Madge felt that there was no
gainsaying the truth of it.

*' I FEEL like a camel threading a needle,"
said Lady Judith in her voluminous
crimson draperies, entering the drawing-room
where Madge was already seated.
Madge, my dear, are you going to throw
open your little sitting-room to-night ? I
suppose your wall decorations are finished
by this time?"

Dinner  on this particular night a stupendous
affair  was over ; guests had
retired to their rooms to put finishing
touches to their ball toilettes. Lance and
sundry other of the younger men lounged
on the terrace outside in the soft early
night, waiting for the dancing to begin.

Sir Peter, as usual, was everywhere that he
was not wanted to be, nowhere that he
ought to have been. Madge and Lady
Judith, ready to do the honours of the
evening, were having a little chat together,
or, in other words, Lady Judith was turning
to the best account a quiet five
minutes that gave her all to herself a silent
if not an attentive listener.

Dancing was to be in the big inner hall
where "the eight-and-twenty Critchetts
looked down," with glazed eyes and
varnished smiles, on banks of exotics and
ferns specially arranged to grace the evening's
festivities.

Madge's octagon sitting-room was little
more than a big recess opening off this
hall. She replied, at the top of her voice,
to Lady Judith's query, that,  When the
hall grew unbearably hot she would throw
open her boudoir for fans and flirtation."

Not a word did Lady Judith hear ; she
had fallen upon another subject now!

'* Sir Peter tells me that Lance and he
went to Claire's and ordered a smart ball-dress
for Miss Shore," she said, wielding
with great energy a fan that might have
suited Titanic fingers.

Madge had to unfold her own fan
in self-defence, and hold it as a screen
sideways to her forehead, for her curls
were flying hither and thither in all
directions.

*' It seems to me a far-fetched idea,"
Lady Judith went on, "to expect the
young lady to make her appearance at all
to-night ! But then every one knows that
Sir Peter's ideas are "

"Madge," said Sir Peter, at that moment
appearing at one of the long French
windows, "I don't believe it will rain
after all ! But will there be a moon tonight

 that's what I want to know  is
there an almanac anywhere handy ? "

Uncle Peter ! " said Lance, appearing
behind the old gentleman with the big
nosegay of cottage flowers in his hand,
"you've left your button-hole behind
you ! " Then he turned to Madge, " Isn't
it time the fiddlers struck up ! Lovely
visions in clouds of tulle and lace are
beginning to descend the stairs ! "

Madge, on her way to the ball-room,
stopped a moment to give an order to a
servant. It was to see that the candelabra
in her octagon boudoir were lighted, and
that the curtains which overhung the doorway
were kept closely drawn.

Sir Peter, as might have been expected,
considered it incumbent on him to open
the ball. He chose for his partner in the
first quadrille a Dowager Countess, about
half-a-dozen years younger than himself.

'' Now," he said, with a deprecating air,
as he led the lady to her place at the top
of the room, 'Tm sure if the choice had
been given us, you and I would much
sooner have been in our beds than footing
it here with the young people."

But to Madge he whispered when, in the
course of "flirtation figure," it fell to his
lot to office her through the dance, '* If
the choice had been given to me I would
have had you for a partner, my dear  and
isn't the music horribly slow ? I must
speak to the bandmaster."

Lance and Madge were partners in this
quadrille.

"A duty dance ! " said Madge to herself,
bitterly, as she thought of dances in days
gone by when his eyes had looked into
hers their tale of boyish first love.

That'll be a match, not a doubt," she
heard one elderly chaperon whisper to

another. The whisper came inopportunely
enough on the heels of her thought. She
glanced furtively with flushing cheeks at
Lance, wondering if he had heard it. His
face, however, told no tale save that of
eager expectancy as, turned towards the
door, it watched the stream of guests
flow in.

That long, low-ceiled hall presented a
gay pageant. " A wind waved tulip bed "
it seemed, brilliant with swaying colours
under soft, bright liszt.

Madge, looking up and down the ranks
of young, happy faces there, thought that
her own face must have shown strangely
haggard and wan among them all, if one
quarter of her thoughts were written upon
it. But a casual glance into a mirror undeceived
her, and she started back amazed
at her own presentment.

It seemed as if for the evening a certain

wild bizarre beauty had been granted to
her. Her eyes were brilliant, her cheeks
glowed, a reckless, defiant gaiety seemed
to have taken possession of her. In her
dress of pale green, all ablaze with rubies
and diamonds, one might almost have
fancied her

"A cross between
A gipsy and a fairy queen,"

who for the evening had condescended to
quit the woodland and don ball-room
attire. She danced, she talked, she
laughed incessantly, till every one of her
partners began to think that young Mrs.
Cohen had suddenly developed into a
most fascinating creature, and to speculate
on his individual chance of winning her
affections. But though Madge proved
herself a very mistress of the fine art of
ball-room fascination, it was. her lips that
did the work, not her eyes. They were

fixed as steadfastly and expectantly on the
door as Lance's were, though not with quite
the same look in them.

The first valse, the second, the third
had been danced out by the swift young
feet. The fourth had begun ; Madge, in
the midst of the swaying dancers, was
saying to herself : " She will not come, she
has changed her mind, and perhaps gone
to bed," when suddenly she felt rather
than saw a gray figure silently glide into
the room. If her eyes had been shut she
knew she would have felt that gray, cool
presence, just as one standing in full sunlight
with closed eyes is conscious of a
cloud passing athwart the sun. In the
brilliant, moving throng the shadowy gray
draperies and still white face seemed to
show like a patch of moonlight falling
cool, clear, apart, into a heated, gas-lighted
room.

VOL. n. Q

'who is that distinguished - looking
young lady ? " asked Madge's partner, a
stalwart young fellow, who seemed to
think that the whole art of dancing
consisted in letting his partner's feet touch
the ground as seldom as possible.

Madge did not answer  did not even
hear the question.

*' I am tired ; I must sit down," she said,,
abruptly. Her partner found a seat for herat
once. She speedily, however, found
another for herself, a low settee placed
immediately beside the dark tapestry curtains
which covered the entrance to her
octagon boudoir.

There she leaned back against the
cushions, watching the dancers as they
whirled past. Or, rather, watching one
pair of dancers from out of the motley
throng, for Miss Shore had no sooner
entered the hall than Lance had claimed her

for his partner, and together they floated
along the soft stream of valse melody.

They made a distinguished and handsome
couple. Nature had put some of her
best workmanship into Lance  had not left
him to be fashioned hap-hazard by any of
her journeymen. Lithe, and full of grace,
he guided his partner as only the lithe and
graceful can through the crush of the dancers.
The misty gray of the girl's filmy
dress floated lightly around them like so
much vaporous cloud, out of which looked
their two faces  the man's with an unmistakable
look of admiration for his partner
in his blue eyes  the woman's with a look
of wild, mournful spirituality in her dark-gray
ones such as is rarely seen out of a
picture.

"How cool and comfortable Miss Shore
looks when every one else is so remarkably
red in the face ! " said Sir Peter, bustling up

G 2

to Madge with a very red face himself, and
Lis right-hand glove split up the back
through the energy wherewith he had been
sLaking hands with every one. Then his
Voice changed to a confidential whisper,
"Madge," he said, "1 have just had a polka
a nice quick one  substituted for the
lancers ; you and I will dance it together,
eh?"

Madge pleaded fatigue. Her last partner
had danced on castors instead of feet, she
said, and she had had to run after him all
Found the room at six-eight time.

Sir Peter opened his eyes very wide.
"Tired! tired!" he repeated, blankly.
"Why, I've only just begun to feel alive,
and to enter into the spirit of the thing ! "

"The breeding of young ladies of the
present generation is something to wonder
at ! " said Lady Judith, bearing down upon
them at that moment, like a sour-wester

I

incarnate. " Miss Lottie Brabazon absolutely
answers a remark I address to heron
her fingers ! On her fingers, my dear, if
you'll believe such a things, as if I were aa
deaf as a post ! If young ladies were only
taught to speak as I was taught when I was
a girl  to take hold of their consonant
properly, and to open their mouths wide
enough to get their vowels out, their elders
would have no difficulty in understanding
them ! "

All this with her fan g'omc at double
speed. She fanned Sir Peter away from
Adore's side, as one miorht fan a moth froid
the wall, and then fanned him on a little
farther into the ball-room, following him up
with a string of vigorous questions as to
whether another pair of gloves could not be
found for him, was it not possible for him
to renew his button-hole, and so forth.

But Madge had not heard a syllable of

all this. Lance and Miss Shore were at
that moment floating past, and their words,
like so many sharp stabs, pierced her ear.

You said this morning," said Lance's
voice, deep and clear below the waves of
valse melody, " ' Would to Heaven tonight
were over ! ' Do you say the same
now?"

To which Miss Shore replied in soft,
tremulous tones :

'' I say now, would to Heaven this
night could last for ever  this valse, at
least, for anything more like heaven I
never knew I "

Madge leaned back on her cushions, her
breath coming in short, quick gasps. Fora
moment all was confusion to her. The
room dissolved into a whirling chaos of
colour, light, and tuneless music. She
pressed her hand over her eyeballs. It
was easy enough to shut out the zigzagging

light and colour, but not so easy to muffle
the sound of that discordant, jarring valse.
On aud on, on and on it seemed to beat
against her very ears in hateful regular rite
and fall. Would the feet of those dancers
never tire ? Had fate conspired with the
infernal powers to render Miss Shore's
wish a reality, and would this valse go on
aimlessly, endlessly, through eternity ?

One after another the dancers yielded to
fatigue and sat down, till Lance and Miss
Shore had the floor to themselves.

Still the musicians played on. A fascinating
sight some would have said, that
handsome man and beautiful young woman
rivalling the waves of the sea in rhythm
and grace of motion.

One there was, leaning back on her
cushions, who felt her eyeballs scorched
by it, and if she had been called upon to
describe an eleventh circle to Dante's

Inferno, would have said, " Here it is ; "
for she could have pictured no worse form
of torture than to behold eternally the
sight which confronted her at that
moment.

It must be now or never, Mrs. Cohen,"
said Mr. Stubbs's voice suddenly, stealthily,
right into her ear.

The music had ceased, and Lance was
leading Miss Shore up the room, towards
the settee on which Madge was seated.

Madge's eyes, in answer to his whisper,
said : " Keep back ! Don't dare to come
near me to-night ! "

Her lips said nothing. She rose from
her seat, steadying herself with one hand
against the arm of the settee ; with her
other hand she pulled the cord of the
tapestry curtains, laying' bare to view the
cool, dark little room, just as Lance and
Miss Shore reached her side.'

Here is a tempting little nook ! " she
said, addressing the two. " What a glorious
valse you have had ! "

A tempting little nook indeed it looked.
The light from the brilliant hall caught
the dark sheen of its polished oak floor,
the bright sheen of its yellow silk walls.
A large deep sofa and some luxurious low
chairs showed in solid outline in the dimness.


AVhat a jolly room you've made of it ! "
said Lance, standing back in the doorway to
allow the two ladies to pass in before him.

A long, narrow mirror nearly faced the
door. On the wall immediately opposite
to it hung a picture, lighted on either side
by candelabra, and necessarily reflected in
all its details in the mirror.

And this is what Miss Shore saw in
that mirror, as she stood in the middle of
the room, a little in advance of Madge.

A gaunt mountain, standing out in black
outline against a stormily-purple sky, with
a stone-built chalet in a bowery garden at
its base. And high over the mountain

o

there shone out one star of intense and
fiery brightness.

One after another the dancers began to
stream into the little room, attracted by its
look of cool dimness. Madge found herself
overwhelmed with compliments on the
taste she had displayed in the decoration
of her boudoir.

There is such a delightful air of mystery
through the arrangement of the light," said
one.

*' And the position of the mirror is most
effective," said another.

Madge gave back but short and absent
answers in acknowledgment of the compliments
; her eyes were fixed on the white,

startled face of the girl who stood with
clasped hands staring blankly into the dim
mirror.

'' Take me out of this room," Madge
heard her say to Lance, in low, unnatural
tones. " I am tired, I have danced too
long."

Lance was startled by the tone in which
these words were uttered. It brought back
to him the stony, tuneless voice in which,
in the midst of the crashing storm, she had
told him that *' it " must be by poison or
fire or flood.

He made way for her through the crush,
thence through the ball-room into the outer
halL Here there was of necessity more
air and space ; save for an occasional servant
passing, they had it all to themselves.

You are feeling faint with the heat ? "
he asked, anxiously. " Come outside on
the terrace for a few minutes, it's a

glorious night  stay, let me get you a
cloak."

All sorts of cross lights met here in this
vestibule ; a stream of light poured forth
from the inner hall, where the strains of
the inspiriting military band proclaimed
that dancing had recommenced ; yellow and
pink light from the lamps on the staircase
in a bewildering stream met this and
crossed it, and through the high windows,
one on either side of the hall-door, a little
beyond this glare, there fell on the tesselated
floor patches of faint moonlight, just
discernible, nothing more, telling of a
glorious golden moon on high.

If it had not been for those coloured
lamps and cross lights, Lance must have
seen how ashen white and rioid Miss Shore's
face had grown. As it was, though her
voice had startled him for the moment,
it did not occur to him that anything ailed

her more serious than a passing faintness,
caused by the heat of the rooms and the
prolonged valse.

He opened the hall-door. It showed an
outside picture of a garden drenched with
moonlight, which set the seal of tawdriness
at once upon the dazzling and illusive
light indoors. He turned to take a cloak
from a stand.

"It's a night to tempt even Midsummer
fairies out of their acorn-cups," he said. ** I
don't believe that in your sunny South
you'd outshine such a moon as this."

There came no answer ; he turned sharply
to see if she were following.

There was at this end of the hall a narrow
archway, half-draped by a curtain, which
led to a second staircase leading to the
upper floor. Neither this staircase nor the
passage to it was lighted, and the archway
showed a dark oblong in the light of the

hall. Just within it stood Miss Shore,
her gray draperies fading into the shadowy
dimness behind her. She was turning: from
him as if she wished to leave him without
so much as a word of excuse or regret.

He sprang towards her. 'you are not
coming ! " he cried in a disappointed tone.

I am going to my room," she answered
in the same stony, tuneless voice as before.

"You will come down again in a few
minutes ? " he pleaded.

With one foot on the first step of the
staircase at the end of the passage, she
waved her hand to him.

Go back and dance," was all that she
said.

If Eurydice, as she faded into the
shadows whence she had emerged, had
bidden Orpheus "go tune his lyre," it
might have been in much such a voice,
with much such a look in her eyes.

Lance went back to the ball-room ; but
not to dance. He made straight for
Madge.

Miss Shore is ill, I fear ; will you goto
her ? " he whispered.

'* I will send my maid at once," said
Madge, promptly giving an order to that
effect.

It was not far off midnight now. The
doors of the supper-room were at that
moment thrown open, and Madge was
called upon to assist Lady Judith in the
marshalling of her priests.

The dowager, who was placed under
Lance's charge during wdiat seemed to him

an interminable repast, vowed that in all
her experience of ball-suppers she had
never before sat side by side with so
singularly taciturn a young man.

Within an hour after supper Lady
Brabazon and her party departed. This
relieved Lady Judith of a large number of
the more distinguished of her guests, and
gave her leisure to discover how terribly
she felt the heat, and how deliciously
tempting was the thought of a featherbed.


'' I shall creep away quietly," she informed
the lady by whose side she was
sitting, in a voice that reached to the other
end of the room. " I shan't be missed,
Madge does the honours so well."

After the departure of the Brabazon
party, the roll of carriage wheels in the
drive continued at intervals till daybreak
But long before the " orange light of

VOL. II. H

widening morn " set the birds thinking of
their matins, Madge found her appearance
of feverish gaiety very hard to maintain.
She fonorht her increasing lassitude vigorously,
however, and did her best to
keep up the brilliancy of the ball to its
end.

Not so Lance, he played his part of a
son of the house " very badly indeed.
Restless and ill at ease, he wandered aimlessly
from room to room with so absent
and discontented a look on his handsome
face, that some of the young ladies who
knew his dancing capabilities began to say
hard things of him.

Madge caught sight of him once, as she
flitted across the outer hall, speaking to
her maid. She guessed in a moment what
the subject of his inquiry must be.

Is Miss Shore better ? " she asked him,
as the girl disappeared, her own curiosity

on the matter not one whit less intense
than his.

' She said she was all right, and desired
the girl not to disturb her again' was
Lance's reply ; but, for all that, he appeared
far from satisfied on the matter, and he
took no pains to hide the fact from anyone.


The last hour of the ball tried Madge
the most. As a rule, she took her balls
very easily, danced but little, and vanished
from the scene early with her dress nearly
as fresh as when she put it on. But tonight
mental and bodily fatigue had come
hand in hand, and now at the eleventh
hour the double strain became all but
insupportable.

Sir Peter, blithe as a cricket, insisted on
leading off ' Sir Roger de Coverley " with
her.

"Forty years' difference between us, my

H 2

dear," he said, gaily. "But for all that I
don't feel like going out of the world
yet!"

No, nor yet like going out of the ballroom,
if that meant going to bed, for when
Madge, at the bottom of the line of
dancers, whispered to him, '' I simply must
go ; I can't put one foot before another,"
he chose immediately the youngest partner
he could find. And he kept the dance
going with such spirit, that as one by one
the couples, yielding to fatigue, disappeared
to their rooms or to their carriages, the
tired musicians whispered to each other
that the old gentleman left bowing to the
last young lady on the floor must be
strung on wires, not muscles, for he seemed
as fresh at the end of the evening as he
did at the beginning.

Madge, as she entered  her dressing-room,
dismissed her sleepy maid. Then

she went on to her bedroom, and, too
tired even to lift her hand to her head to
remove the jewels from her hair, flung herself
in her ball-dress on the bed. Her
head ached and burned ; her ears were
filled with the twanojinoj of the band, her
eyes with pink light and dancing colours.
But not the loudest of twanging music
could shut out from her ears the echo of
a startled voice with a piteous note in it,
nor the most dazzling of light and colour
shut out from her sight a rigid, ashen-white
face, with a look of terror in its
eyes.

The candles on the toilet-table had
burned low ; long straight lines of gray
light came through the half turned Venetian
blinds ; the chill air of early morning
swept in through a half-open window at
the farther end of the room. Something
seemed to stir and rustle in a large easy-chair,

which was priced near this window
with its back to the room.

What was it ? Madge wondered, raising
herself on one elbow and looking
around her. Was it a breeze springing
up and foretelling a storm, or had old Eoy
taken refuge in the room from the racket
of the ball and curled himself up to sleep
in the easy chair ?

She peered into the dimness curiously.
It is wonderful how unlike itself in its
noonday prettiness a sleeping-room will
show in the half-light of dwindling candles
and growing dawn. Shadows flickered
across the ceiling, and seemed caught back
again by invisible hands into the dark
corners whence they had emerged. Thence
they seemed to creep out once more to
play hide-and-seek round the tables, and
among the high-backed chairs.

Madge shaded her eyes with one hand.

Alas that a shadow rising slowly from the
big easy-chair beside the window and
approaching, not flickering, but with easy,
gliding motion ?

Then a sudden chill fell upon her, as, in
that graceful, gliding shape, she recognised
Miss Shore, clad, not in her ball-dress, butin
the gray travelling-dress and beaver
hat in which Madge had first seen her.
Her heart failed her ; she would have
liked to shout aloud for help, but voice
she had none.

Her hand failed her, too, it was powerless
even to ring the bell beside the bed.
Nerveless and helpless, she sank back on
her pillows, hiding her face in her hands.

Miss Shore's voice, low, clear, cold, told
her that she stood beside her, leaned over
her in fact.

I have been waiting here to say goodbye
to you," it said. *'I have also a

word to say beside good-bye if you will
listen."

If she would listen! Madge felt that
choice she had none, her feet would not
have carried her across the floor had she
essayed flight. This strange, wild girl
who had failed in an attempt at murder
through chance, not want of purpose, must
work her will now whatever it might
be.

You took me in a stranger ; you gave
me shelter, and food  for that I thank
you," she went on in the same low, cold
monotone. " You turn me out into the
night, into the darkness and loneliness  for
that I thank you not  no, for that I hate
you  I wish you evil."

Bring me here presently John Baptist's
head in a charger." Those words, like these,
were none the less terrible because spoken
by beautiful lips iu a tranquil voice.

Madge shrank farther back in her
pillows.

Miss Shore resumed.

When I am gone you will say, ' I
have won ! I have saved that man I
love from an evil woman ! ' "

She broke off for a moment ; then
suddenly raised her voice to a passionate
cry:

"Oh, you with your gold and your
jewels, your home and your friends, are
you the one to say, ' This is evil, that is
good ' ? You are what you are made to
be, you call that good ; I am what I wtis
made to be, you call that evil 1 "

Again she broke off, and now her voice
sank to its former low, cold monotone.
'* But I did not come here to tell you this.
No ; I came to say to you, ' You have won
so far ! ' I go back into the darkness and
loneliness whence I came, you will stay herein

the light and the happiness. You will
win back the love you have lost ; you will
say, ' I have conquered.' Wait ! At the
very moment of your victory I will stand
between you and your joy as you have
stood between me and mine."

Madge heard no more. Worn out with
the heavy mental and physical strain of
the past twenty-four hours, her senses left
her.

And outside, the gray expanse of heaven
was broken up into a hundred massive,
rugged clouds, to let out the rainbow glories
of the morning ; the great plumed trees
waved in the summer breeze, and a whole
orchestra of wild birds broke into their
hallelujah chorus, as if desolation, despair,
and death were words without meaning
in so four a scheme of creation !

Very few of the guests made their appearance
at the breakfast-table on the
morning after the ball. Sir Peter and one
or two of the most youthful of the party
had things very much to themselves until
close upon the luncheon hour. Madge
sent down a message that she had a very
bad headache, and was reserving her
strength for the villagers' sports in the
afternoon and tenants' supper in the
evening.

These sports and the supper formed the
staple topic of talk among the house party
until another item of news was announced,
which altogether put these into the shade

nothing less than the sudden disappearance
of Miss Shore. It was not until
nearly noon that her flight was discovered.
The discovery was made through Lance's
instrumentality. He had sent Madge's
maid, about breakfast time, to make inquiries
as to the young lady's health, and
to present on his part a nosegay of freshly-gathered
forget-me-nots. The maid came
back with her flowers, saying that Miss
Shore was sleeping and did not wish to
be disturbed.

This was her version of the fact that her
repeated knockings brought no response.

Lance waited awhile impatiently, grew
discontented with his fading forget-me-nots,
and, gathering a nosegay of exotics, went
himself to the housekeeper  a somewhat
important personage in the establishment
and commissioned her to present them
herself to Miss Shore, with .inquiries from

him as to whether she felt rested from her
fatigues of overnight. Evidently he had
not the slightest wish to conceal his anxiety
on the young lady's behalf.

The housekeeper came back in a few
minutes looking rather scared, and bringing
the startling news that, not receiving any
response to her rapping at Miss Shore's
door, she had ventured to turn the handle
and look in, when, to her great surprise,
she had found that the room was empty,
and that the bed had not been slept in.

Lance, for a few seconds, refused to
trust his own powers of hearing. Then,
after desiring the housekeeper to go to Sir
Peter and report the fact to him, he made
straight for Madge's room.

Madge, in her loose peignoir, opened
her door to his summons. She knew well
enough what lay behind it, and he, if he
had not been so preoccupied with his own

thoughts, must have seen how white and
haggard she looked.

Ten words toil her the story.

'' Do you know anything I don't know,
Madge ? " he queried, impatiently ; '' did you
see her after you left the ball-room, or did
she send you a message ? "

Madge evaded his questions.

'* Let us go to her room. She may have
left a letter or written message," she
said, herself trembling at the bare thought
of the possibility of such a thing.

At the door of Miss Shore's room they
were met by Sir Peter, bent on a like
errand. The three entered the room
together.

They found that the bed, as the housekeeper
had stated, had not been slept in.
On it was flung carelessly the ball-dress of
overnight, strewn with sundry faded sprigs
of stephanotis, which bad been worn with it.

A small portmanteau stood open beside the
bed, with its contents tossed about as if
some tbiogs bad been hastily abstracted.
On the toilet-table glittered the gold  to
its last half-sovereign  wbicb Madge bad
paid on the previous morning for the
pictures; but never note or written message
of any sort with all their searching could
they discover.

Tbe gold caught Sir Peter's eye.

Ab, that's a good sign. Sbe must bave
bad plenty of money in ber purse or shouldn't
bave left that behind," be said,
cheerily. 'depend upon it we shall get
a letter from ber in the course of the day
explaining "

Madge," interrupted Lance in an odd,
quiet tone, '' do you mind looking through
that portmanteau and seeing if there are
any letters there, or anything that will give
us a clue to ber people or friends ? "

Madge immediately complied. One by
one she carefully turned over the contents
of the portmanteau. They searched it
thoroughly for secret places where letters
might be hidden, turned it upside down
and sounded its sides and bottom for false
partitions.

It was a fruitless search. The box contained
nothing save articles of clothing,
most of them unmarked ; but one or two
embroidered with the name '"'Etelka."

Madge related the circumstance of a
handkerchief being found with the same
name upon it.

Sir Peter's eyes grew round and rounder.

"Most extraordinary " he began.

Lance interrupted him :

*' Of course you will at once communicate
with the police and offer a reward for
information of any sort ? "

A sudden impulse seized Madge. " Don't

let that be done," she said in low, nervous
tones, addressing Lance. *' Whatever else
you do, don't do that."

Lance stared at her blankly.

Why not ? What else on earth are
we to do ? Of course, I shall start for
Lower Upton at once, and follow up any
clue I may get there ; but the police would
do more in a day than I should do in a
week."

My dear boy," cried Sir Peter, aghast,
'' you mustn't dream of such a thing.
Let Stubbs go." He broke off for a moment.
"Ah, by the way, he can't, he's off
already to Carstairs  had a telegram late
last night  so he told me this morning."
Here he turned to Madge : " A very dear
friend of his at Carstairs had been suddenly
taken seriously ill, and wished to see him."

Madge said nothing ; only she grew
white and whiter, and her eyes drooped.

VOL. II. I

*' But it is easy enough to send someone
else to make inquiries." Here he
turned to Lance : "Your servant is a trusty
fellow, send him  but I couldn't get on
without you to-day at all  you'll have to
be umpire in all the races and the vaulting
and jumping "

Lance gave him one look. It said :

Talk of such things to a man whose
soul is on the rack ! "

But his lips said only :

*' I'm afraid you'll have to get some one
else to act umpire. I start for Lower
Upton at once ! " and he left the room ashe
spoke.

Madge followed him hastily into the
outside gallery.

Lance," she said, in the same low,
earnest tones as before, 'let her go!
Be advised ! Don't set the police on her
track ; don't hunt her down yourself."

He stared at lier stonily.

For her sake, if not for your own," she
implored.

His face grew pale as death. This was
clothing with a body a spectre of dread
that more than once before had stood in his
path.

For her sake ! " he repeated, hoarsely.
"Madge, if you know anything about her
that I don't know, tell me at once  do you
hear ?  at once right out, and be done with
it."

Madge was silent. When she had laid
her plot, she had not taken thought for
such a contingency as this, so was unprepared
to meet it. After all, she was a
bad plotter, and was acting very much on
the spur of the moment now.

'' Come, Madge, speak out," he said ;
and now his voice grew stern and
peremptory.

I 2

Still Madge was silent. If she were
to tell him the story the newspaper
paragraph told, he might be quick enough
to discover the source of her inspiration
for the mirror-picture, and might hate her
for ever for the deed she had done.

He stood still, waiting for her answer.

She clasped her hands together once
more. "I be:  I entreat " she besfan.

''No, not that," he interrupted. " Give
me a reason  a simple, straightforward
reason why I am not to go in search of
this young lady  a guest in our house,
with every claim to our courtesy."

A reason, a simple, straightforward
reason ! She could have given him one
had she dared. " My love ; is not that
reason enough ? " she would have liked to
cry out of her fall, breaking heart. " The
love that led me to sacrifice myself in a
hateful marriage ; the love that is making

me do unworthy things now ; the love that
will send me to my grave should you choose
this young woman or any other but me for
your wife ! "

A hot rush of tears came to her eyes.
She stumbled forward and clung to his arm.

Lance, Lance," she cried, passionately.
I can't give you a reason. There is one
a strong one "

Give it me," he interrupted, doggedly.
'' It is all I ask of you."

It would be impossible ! " she cried,
her tears almost choking: her. She broke
off for a moment, and then her voice rose
to a loud, passionate cry. " Oh, Lance,
Lance, will you not trust me after all these
years of  of companionship ? It is not of
myself I am thinking now  not of Miss
Shore even  only of you. I beg  I implore
you, let her go, or your life, your whole life,
may be wrecked."

Somctbino: in lier tone startled him. If
his heart had not been full of the thoughts
of another woman, he must have heard
the cry of wounded love in this one's
voice.

As it was, he only thought that she was
strangely excited, and was using language
which she was not warranted in using.

He tried to disengage his arm from her
clasp. " You are talking wildly, Madge ;
be reasonable."

His words stun 2: her. Yet she clung
to his arm.

'sis it unreasonable to implore you to
think of your life in the future  to try
to save you from the wiles of an evil
woman "

Here he coldly and firmly released his
arm from her clasp.

"That will do, Madge  you've said
enough for one day," he said, sternly.

As if struck by a sudden thought, he
went back to the room they had just
quitted, and came out again in a few
seconds with one or two of the sprays of
the dead stephanotis in his hand. Then,
without another word to or look at Madge,
he went.

She stood staring after him through her
blinding tears. This was the man whom
she had accused of treating life as a big jest,
and of never being in earnest, from year's
end to year's end. Well, he was desperately
it might be fatally  in earnest now, not a
doubt.

Sir Peter's birthday festivities had never
before so nearly approached a failure as
they did on this, his sixty-third anniversary.
No one had ever before realised
how much they owed their success to
Lance's buoyancy and high spirits. Even
Lady Judith  impervious though she
generally was to outside influences  was
conscious of a limpness and want of spirit
in the day's proceedings. She put her
finger at once upon Lance as the sole
cause of the dejection that prevailed
generally.

If that young man, my dear," she said
to every one she could get to. listen to her.

and occasionally to the same person twice
over, '' if that young man would only consult
his elders a little more and his own
inclinations a little less, it would be much
better for him and for those about him."

She took Miss Shore's disappearance 
in due course made known to her  very
lightly indeed. It was what she had expected
from the very first, she averred.
She had always been opposed to the admission
of another protege into the house
the proteges Sir Peter had already were
but little credit to him. From this she
rambled on to similar instances of flight
which the records of Sir Peter's benevolence
afforded.

' There was that little imp of a page, in
town, my dear  really nothing better thana
street Arab, but Sir Peter would have
him dressed in blue cloth and buttons 
well, he had no sooner got some decent

clothes for himself, the little thief, than he
disappeared, and to this day he has never
been heard of ! And there was that housemaid
 a girl taken out of a union  she
seized the very first opportunity "

But at this point her listeners, as a rule,
would themselves seize the very first opportunity
to disappear, and Lady Judith
had to begin all over ao-ain to the next
person who approached :

'' There was that little imp of a page,
my dear," and so forth.

It was entirely owing to Sir Peter's
energy that things went even so well as
they did. He surpassed himself in activity
that day. One or two of the younger
guests, who had volunteered to act as
umpires in the villagers' sports in Lance's
stead, declared that their office was a
sinecure, for Sir Peter saw the beginning,
and end, and middle of every race himself.

The marvel was that he didn't enter himself
as competitor in every one of the
'* events " of the day, the greasy - pole
business and all.

If I were only half-a-dozen years
younger I would show you all how things
ought to be done," he said in confidence
to one of the ladies of the party.

Gracious Heavens ! " thought the lady
to herself, " it's a blessing he isn't, or he'd
want a keeper ! "

No one wondered that Madge was pale
and silent throughout the day. It had
been a generally received notion among Sir
Peter's and Lady Judith's friends that
young Mrs. Cohen and Mr. Clive would
make a match of it. Every one had remarked
his unmistakable admiration for
and attention to the stranger-guest overnight,
and now his sudden flight in search
of her excited considerable comment.

Every one decided that Sir Peter's conduct
in thus introducing an utter stranger to
his home-circle had been reprehensible
in the extreme, although of a piece with
his usual eccentric benevolence, and confidentially
stated their conviction that the
reason for the young lady's flight would no
doubt be speedily enough discovered in the
loss of one of Mrs. Cohen's jewel caskets.

It was more or less of a relief when the
last health had been drunk by the farmer
tenants with * three times three," and the
lights in the tents had begun to be put out.

Madge lingered last and latest in the
grounds, pleading headache and need of
fresh air. Indoors there was no one to
extemporise a dance, or tableaux vivants,
so the guests dispersed to their rooms
sooner than they otherwise would have
done. Had they lifted their blinds somewhere
between ten and eleven at nisfht,

they might have seen Mrs. Cohen walking
up and down the terrace in the moonlight.
But not alone ; her companion was Mr.
Stubbs, and their talk was of his hurried
journey to Carstairs.

His voice was low and apologetic, hers
low and vehement.

I thought it the best thing I could do,
madam, under the circumstances," he said.
"My friend at Carstairs, Mr. Symons, is
in a private inquiry office ; I have commissioned
him to take the matter in hand
and to communicate at once anything that
comes to light."

'' I gave you no authority to commission
any one to act in the matter. My orders
to you were plain enough  to charge yourself
with her departure, to supply her with
money, to ascertain exactly where she was
going, what she would do," was Madge's
answer.

' I am very sorry, madam ; I can only
repeat that I am very sorry. How she got
away without my seeing her I don't know.
I stood outside the Lodge close to the
gates till morning  looked into every
carriage as I thought. You see there was
almost an incessant roll of carriages between
two and four. There were so many hired
ones, too  she must have gone away in one
of these  and stayed at the station till
the first train left for Carstairs. I cross-questioned
every one of the men at Lower
Upton  in general terms, that is, not mentioning
any special guest from the Castle 
and they told me that a large party went on
by the first train to Carstairs."

'from Carstairs possibly she has gone onto
the North."

Or she may have gone South  say to
Liverpool."

Madge turned sharply upon him. " What

makes you say that ? " she asked, suspiciously.


He shrugged his shoulders. *' It would
be the most reasonable thing to do if one
wanted to get on board a steamer quickly."

What makes you think that she wanted
to get on board a steamer ? " she asked.

I have not the slightest reason for
thinking she wished to do so, madam. It
was only an idea that occurred to me, and
I uttered it on the spur of the moment."

They made one turn up and down the
terrace in silence.

Mr. Stubbs was the first to break it.

"About that hundred pounds, madam,"
he began.

Madge got her thoughts back from their
wanderings with difficulty. " Yes ? " she
said, absently.

I've been thinking that as you may
possibly require my services again "

*' How do you know I may he likely to
require your services ? " she queried, sharply,
but perhaps a little nervously also.

'* I am only suggesting the possibility of
such a thing, madam. Unforeseen circumstances
might arise necessitating a
sudden journey on my part or the expenditure
of money "

Keep it," said Madge, contemptuously,
and suddenly bringing their interview to a
close. The look on her face, as she said
this, might have been interpreted by a thin-skinned
listener to convey the intimation:

Consider yourself paid and dismissed."

But Mr. Stubbs was not thin-skinned,
so he rubbed his hands together and
chuckled to himself: *' There's more fish
in the sea than Tve landed at present."

"When once that girl is out of the
house things will be all right between
Lance and me," Madge had said to herself
over and over again, as she had worked
out the details of ber plan for ejecting
Miss Shore.

Well, the girl was out of the house now,
and there was little likelihood of her ever returning
to it ; yet " things " were as far off
as ever from being " right " between Lance
and herself.

Sir Peter's birthday guests had departed,
and the household at the Castle had resumed
the even tenor of its way. A
week had passed since Miss Shore's dis-vol.

II. K

appearance, and not a scrap of intelligence
had been received concerning her. From
Lance there had come a hurried half-dozen
lines  addressed to Sir Peter, not Madge
giving a brief account of his movements :
his visit to Carstairs had been without
result so far as Miss Shore was concerned :
he was now on his way to Edinburgh. He
had ascertained that the first train leaving
Carstairs, after the Lower Upton special
train had arrived, had been the Edinburgh
Express ; he had, therefore, determined to
start at once for that city, and intended
stopping at all intermediate stations to
make further inquiries. He gave an
address at Edinburgh, to which letters
during the ensuing week mioht be addressed,
and begged that any news
that miojht reach the Castle concerning
Shore should be at once telegraphed
to him. He said nothing whatever of

having called the police to his aid in his
search, so Madge concluded that in this
respect her entreaties had carried more
weight than she had dared to hope they
would.

Sir Peter as usual took an optimistic
view of the situation.

'rit's very good of him to take all this
trouble for an utter stranger  eh, Madge ? ''
he said, doing his utmost to dissipate any
slight cloud of jealousy which he fancied
might have arisen in Madge's mind. " It's
real goodness of heart, that's what it is,
and has saved me a world of trouble."

Then it suddenly occurred to him that
the '' world of trouble " would have been a
world of delight to him, since it involved
a journey to the North with license to get
out at all intermediate stations  a dozen
times of getting in and out, say, for
once.

K 2

So he added, after a moment's pause :

"Not but what I think Lance might just
as well have put off his journey for a day
or two, so that I might have gone with him.
I took a great interest in Miss Shore, and
nothing would please me better than to
hear good news of her."

Madge, according to all showing, ought
to have been exultant and jubilant now
that her little plot had so far come to a
successful issue ; instead, after one day of
wild energy, she relapsed into a nervous
and ill-appease frame of mind, shunned the
mere sight of Mr. Stubbs, and seemed ever
on the watch for the arrival of ill-omened
telegrams.

During that one day of wild energy she-did
her best to sweep all traces of Miss
Shore out of the house.

The beautiful gray ball-dress, left lying
on the bed, seemed to tell all over ao*aitt

the story of its wearer's triumph and
defeat ; the small portmanteau seemed
like an evil omen of its owner's return to
claim her property. Madge gave orders
that both should be locked up safely in a
store cupboard, in case, she said, Miss
Shore might write for them.

Then she fell to work on her little
boudoir; had the mirror and the picture
which faced it removed from the walls, and,
together with Miss Shore's water-colour
drawings, carried to a lumber-room, alleging
to Lady Judith, as her reason for so doing,
that she had another plan in her head for
the decoration of her boudoir ; and, finally,
she changed her bedroom  the one she
had occupied from the first day of her
coming to Upton Castle  for another on
the other side of the house ; and gave
orders that a certain high-backed easy-chair,
which she was in the habit of occupying,

should on no account follow her to her new
quarters.

These things done, she drew a long breath,
as it were, and tried to look ahead at the
dangers that were threatening.

Time was getting precious  any day, any
moment a second Australian letter might
arrive, and Mr. Stubbs would need to have
explicit instructions on the matter.

Evidently the same thought was in Mr.
Stubbs's mind also.

I suppose you know, madam, that the
Australian mail is delivered fortnightly ? "
he said to her on one of the rare occasions
that he chanced to be alone in the same
room with her.

Madge's only answer was an angry frown,
and the sudden stretching out of her hand
to reach a book which lay on the table
beside her.

She might, however, as well have tried

the effect of a frown on a spicier about to
net a fly, as on Mr. Stubbs at that
moment.

Time is pressing," he went on, eyeing
her stealthily from beneath his half-closed
lids. 'the oreat thin 2: now, it seems tome,
is to get Mr. Clive back -"

But here Madge, with her book in her
hand, cut his sentence in half by leaving
the room.

How she hated and despised herself for
the alliance which she had formed with
this man. Sometimes she felt herself almost
driven to wish that instead of calling in
his aid she had had the courage to tell
Lance outright her own suspicions respecting
Miss Shore, and the foundation
on which they rested. Second thoughts,
however, seemed to show her at one glance
the danger and the uselessness of such a
course. The story of a Corsican vendetta

after all it might be nothing more 
might be alluring, not repelling, when confessed
to by beautiful lips, and might have
supplied a young man, chivalrous and hotheaded
to the last degree, with an excuse,
rather than otherwise, for his chivalry and
hot-headdress.

Her brain grew chaotic with its pressure
of thought ; she felt herself incapable of
deciding upon any settled course of action.
Sometimes she could almost persuade herself
that the whole think; from first to last
had been a dream. With Miss Shore's
pictures, easel, and portmanteau safely
locked up out of sight, the romance seemed
to be swept out of the house, so to speak.
It would have been almost possible to have
forgotten the episode of the coming and
going of that " girl in gray," in the leisurely
comfortableness of every-day life at Upton,
if only Lance would return his old, cheery,

light-hearted self, and Mr. Stubbs could at
once and for ever be dismissed to that
low stratum of society whence he had
emerged.

She grew to hate the sight of that man ;
she shunned him on every possible occasion,
and did her best to make him understand
that his presence was distasteful to her.
This was a lesson, however, he seemed
incapable of learning. Let her snub him
as she pleased, morning, noon, and night,
he never failed to seize every opportunity
of endeavouring to make himself agreeable
to her. He even went so far as to send
up, nightly by her maid, little notes reporting,
as a rule, that there was nothing
to report.

Through my friend at Carstairs, I am
still making inquiries, but can learn nothing,"
sometimes these notes would run.

At other times it would be, *' Nothing

fresh from Australia," or " Correspondence
this morning satisfactory."

Madge used to tear these notes into a
thousand pieces when she had read them,
and would stamp her foot at herself
literally as well as metaphorically for
having soiled her hands with such a tool.

But one night there came a note which
she did not tear into morsels, but sat
staring at stonily instead, with thoughts
all in a wild whirl of dread.

'' Important and terrible news," it ran.
' Can I see you at once ? Sir Peter has gone
to bed  the study is empty."

Dreading she knew not what, Madge
hastily made her way down the darkened
staircase to the study, at whose door stood
Mr. Stubbs in the patch of light made by
the single lamp on the writing-table.

He closed the door behind her as she
entered and began a profuse series of

apologies for the untimeliness of his message,
but he had only just had time to
open and attend to his correspondence
which had arrived by the morning's
mail

Madge interrupted his apologies. " Tell
me your news at once," she said, feeling
that another moment of suspense would be
intolerable.

He spread on the writing-table before
her, a newspaper ; and just as he had done
on a former occasion, laid his finger on a
paragraph.

The newspaper this time was a Liverpool
daily journal. The paragraph ran as
follows :

The body of a young woman was taken
out of the Mersey yesterday at daybreak.
It was dressed in gray travelling-dress,
gray cloak, gray beaver-hat, with feather.
In the pocket of the dress was an empty

purse, and an envelope which bore the
name *Jane Shore'"

Madge started back with a low cry.

"The newspaper is four days old," began
Mr. Stubbs. Then he broke off, startled
by the sudden change which had swept over
Madge's face.

It's my doing  mine," she said, in a
voice that sounded strained and unnatural.
She clutched at the table for support. At
the moment it seemed as if her senses must
leave her.

' I entreat you to calm yourself, Mrs.
Cohen," said Mr. Stubbs, venturing to
approach her.

Madge's senses came back in full force.

*' Stand back ! " she cried, passionately.
"Do not dare to come near me  you
who urged me on to this  this deed of
murder."

He drew back, a curious expression

flitting over his face. " Wait," it seemed
to say, " you'll be glad enough of my help
before long.

But his lips said respectfully :

After a night's rest, madam, you maybe
able, possibly, to see the matter in
another light, and to discuss with me the
advisability of conveying the tidings at
once to Mr. Clive."

Madge did not hear him. She raised
her hands on high, clasped convulsively
together.

'' I call Heaven to witness," she cried in
the same reckless, passionate tone as before
that I thought not of this when I drove
her from the house."

Then she bowed her head, and, with
feet that stumbled as they went, left the
room.

No one saw Madge's face for more thana
week from that day. Lady Judith paid
a daily visit to her room, and her maid
brought her meals to her bedside ; but the
room was kept darkened, and, when anyone
approached her, she hid her eyes with
her hands, complaining of racking pain
in her head.

Lady Judith in her daily visits reported
the household news with the minuteness
of a Daily Chronicle, The golden opportunity
of a listener, who, perforce, must
remain a listener, was one to be made the
most of. " Sir Peter actually advised me
to keep out of the room," she said, sweeping

in in her voluminous draperies. " He
said perfect quiet would bring you round
sooner than anything. I told him perfect
quiet had a very nice sound on his lips.
It was not I who came in at doors and
went out at windows every five minutes in
the day."

The curtains fluttered in response to her
vigorous fan, the floor creaked under her
weight, and her long skirt turned up the
corners of every rng that lay in her path,
and eventually carried along in its folds
a footstool or two, wrong side uppermost.

Madge said never a word, but lay still
with covered face, listening to the high-pitched
voice, as one in a subterranean
passage beneath a big city might hear
without heeding the hum and rush of busy
feet and voices overhead.

Of all Lady Judith's flow of oratory
during the first day's visit, Madge heard

naught save that Sir Peter and Mr. Stubbs
had " been closeted together the whole
morning, and were closeted together now.
Goodness only knows what they can find
to talk about. I should call it a sinful
waste of time to shut myself up for half
a day in a study to chatter about nothing
at all."

Lady Judith's voice on the second day
seemed to come a little nearer to Madge's
muffled ears. It recounted how that Sir
Peter had laid before her a newspaper
paragraph recording the terrible fate of
Miss Shore, and how she had reminded him
that on the very first day that the young
lady set foot in the house, she had said that
she had a most repulsive manner in spite
of her good looks, and was bound, sooner or
later, to come to an unfortunate end. Lady
Judith further added  with comments 
that Sir Peter and JMr. Stubbs had started

off at once for Liverpool, to state to the
authorities there all that they knew of the
unfortunate young lady, and to see that
decent, not pauper, burial was given to
her.

On the third day Lady Judith's chronicle
of events grew more distinct by a great
deal to Madge's dulled senses.

She came into Madge's room about noon
with no less than seven telegrams in her
hand, all from Sir Peter.

Telegram No. 1  stated that on his arrival
at Carstairs he had changed his mind, and
instead of continuing his journey to Liverpool
with Mr. Stubbs, had thought it better
to take train for the North in order to see
Lance and apprise him of the sad news.

The telegram did not add what in reality
had been the case  that this chancre in Sir
Peter's intentions owed its origin to a
suggestion from Mr. Stubbs.

VOL. II. L

Telegram No. 2  reported that he had
reached the first station on his journey to
Edinburgh.

Telegram No. 3  reported that he was
getting on all right.

Telegram No. 4  reported another step
on the journey.

Telegram No. 5  stated that he had
crossed the Border.

Telegram No. 6  announced that he had
arrived at Edinburgh, but that Lance was
not there.

Telegram No. 7  stated that he had
started on a return journey, trusting to
find Lance at a little village in Northumberland,
to which orders had been given
that his Edinburgh letters should be sent.

After this day's report, Madge found
her ears thirsting  for the news which
Lady Judith's next day's visit would
bring.

But the next day was a blank. It
brought no news whatever.

On the day following came the tidings by
telegram that Sir Peter and Lance had
joined Mr. Stubbs at Liverpool ; and the
day after that Lady Judith paid Madge a
second  an evening  visit to her room, on
purpose to report the fact that the three
gentlemen had returned to the Castle.

"But in a very extraordinary state of
mind, my dear  two of them, at least ; for
Sir Peter I've scarcely seen  certainly have
had no opportunity of conversing with.
He has been in and out of the stables,
through the greenhouses  to see that the
plants are growing right end uppermost, I
suppose  but no, not for five minutes at a
time has he been in the same room with
me. Well, as I was saying, Mr. Stubbs is
going about on tip-toes with his eyes half-shut
and speaking in a solemn whisper, for

L 2

all the world as if the terrible affair had
happened in this house  as it very well
might, considering the sort of people Sir
Peter brings into it  instead of miles
away. And as for Lance, my dear 1 well,
you must see him to know what he looks
like  a perfect wreck of himself, with a
white face and sunken eyes, as if he had
had no sleep for a week ! and as for talk !
there's not a word to be got out of him !
Say what I will, I can't get him to tell me
what they've all been doing at Liverpool,
and not even did he open his lips when I
remarked what a mercy it was that the
young lady didn't commit suicide here,
and jump out of her bedroom window on
the very night of the ball."

** Must see him to know what he looks
like!" Madge felt at that moment as if
she never dared meet him face to slice
aiain. *for Lance, for Lance," she had said

I

to herself over and over again, as she had
sought to stifle the voice of her conscience.
But now, as she hid her face lower still
among her pillows, came the voice of her
own heart echoing, not stifling, the whispers
of conscience, with the terrible question
: *what if this thing done * for
Lance ' shall have wrecked, not saved his
future for him ? "

Sir Peter had not been twenty-four hours
in the house before a doctor was sent for
to see Madge, and she had to sit up and
face him.

He came down from his interview with
her with a very grave face. She was in a
terribly weak state, he said, and must have
run down a good deal without any one
noticing it. He recommended change of
air and scene so soon as it was practicable.

Sir Peter felt his hands very fall just
then.

*' Really, Stubbs," he said, confidentially,
to his secretary, " what with one thing and
another, I hardly know which way to turn.
Mr. Clive, the first thing this morning,
announced to me that he intended joining
an exploring expedition into Africa  or was
it the Spice Islands ?  really, I'm not sure
which  and now Mrs. Cohen to break down
in this way ! And there's that letter from
her lawyers about her property at Pedestal.
They say they've written to her
again and again, and can't get any answers
to their letters, and now they're obliged
to apply to me. It's a matter of first
importance.'

Mr. Stubbs proffered his services immediately.


*' Would it be any use. Sir Peter, if I
took the lawyers' letter to Mrs. Cohen and
offered to write a reply to her dictating 1 "
he asked.

Sir Peter caught at the idea. A message
was at once despatched to Mrs. Cohen, which
elicited the reply that she would see Mr.
Stubbs in her own room.

Mr. Stubbs found her seated as far
from the window as possible. The room
was much darkened ; she leaned back in
her chair, shading her eyes with her hand,
so that he could scarcely see her face.
He took the chair which she indicated ; it
was a long way from her own, considering
how confidential their talk was likely to be.
He placed it by a yard nearer. Madge
immediately drew in front of her a small
table, as if to set up a distinct barrier
between them.

Her movement left him free to note how
much her few days' illness had told upon her.

Her voice sounded weak and unlike her
own as she asked the question : " Did you
see her ? " in a low, agitated tone.

I grieve to say I did not, madam," he
replied. *'I was too late  the paper sent
to me was four days old. The body had lain
for identification at the mortuary for a day,
but no one coming forward, an inquest had
been held, and it had been buried in the
paupers' burial-ground."

Madge, with a low cry, leaned forward on
the table before her, hiding her face in her
hands. There seemed to come a sudden
rush of some soft valse music into her ears,
a graceful figure in misty gray draperies
seemed to float before her eyes. It
vanished ; in its stead there lay a still and
silent form, swathed in grave-clothes, in a
pauper's coffin.

Mr. Stubbs went on composedly :

I went to the local authorities and
stated that although, the young lady was
an entire stranger to Sir Peter, she had
been staying for some little time at the

Castle. I further requested them to hand
to me the purse, and the envelope on which
her name was written. This they did.
Mr. Clive took possession of both."

The slight tremor which thrilled Madge's
hands showed that she had heard his last
words.

'' I also requested them to point out tome
her place of burial, as I knew it would
be Sir Peter's wish to place a stone over it.
They could not do so with exactitude. It
was a big cemetery ; there had been a good
many paupers buried that day ; two in one
grave, three in another, and they were not
certain in which grave the drowned young
lady had been buried."

He waited for Madge to speak, but
never a word came from her lips. Her
head bent lower and lower, till at length,
covered still with her white, tremulous
hands, it rested on the table.

'' I did my best, madam," lio said at
length.

Still not a word from ]\[adg:e.

He was determined to make her speak.

'* Mr. Clive was in a terrible state of
mind. Sir Peter didn't know what to do
with him. He was half-frantic at first. He
was going to do all sorts of wild things,
vowed he'd have the whole cemetery dug
up to find her body, he must see her once
again and say his * good-bye' to her, he said,
or he should know no rest in this world. I
asked him if he remembered the face of
the girl who was taken out of the river
at Lower Upton ? After that he said
no more about searching the graves for
her."

Madge's fingers clutched each other
convulsively.

Mr. Stubbs had no pity.

Unless something is done promptly he

will be doing something desperate, and
may ruin his life for himself," he said.

Madge drew her hands from her white,
tear-stained face.

*' Listen," she said, " I shall do something
promptly  before this day is out  go to
Mr. Clive and tell him the whole truth,
from beoinninof to end."

My dear madam "

"Be silent," she said, sharply, peremptorily.
" After this  this  shall I go to
you for advice ? "

She pushed back her chair and rose
from the table. So lonsj as she sat fascines
this man she felt all that was good in her
dwindling, all that was evil in her growing
apace.

She pressed her hands to her forehead.

I cannot keep it to myself, it will drive
me mad  mad ! " she said, desperately.

Mr. Stubbs rose also ; he looked at her

in silence for a few moments, then he drew
his letter-case from his pocket.

"What about the Australian letter,
madam ? " he queried.

Madge started. The second terrible
catastrophe had for the time thrown
the other into the shade.

Shall you, when you make your full
confession to Mr. Clive, tell him also the
story of Sir Peter's nephew and heir ? "

Madge drew a long, weary breath.

'' It will help him a little further along
the road to ruin, that's all. Pardon my
speaking plainly, madam, but this is a
crisis  forgive my saying so, in Mr. Olive's
life as well as in your own."

My own life may go," she said, recklessly.
" One way or another I have
ruined it for myself  it is not worth taking
into account now." She made one step
towards the door, then abruptly paused.

Was her resolution wavering or gathering
strength, Mr. Stubbs wondered.

Will you be good enough to read this,
madam ? " he said, opening his letter-case
and spreading a letter before her.

Madge, with a hasty eye, read as follows :

"Liverpool, August 22nd.
"The Rev. Joshua Parker regrets that
he is unexpectedly prevented from calling
upon Sir Peter Critchett, as he had
intended to do on his way to the North.
He hopes, however, that the pleasure maybe
only deferred for a month or six
weeks''

Madge was prompt enough to recognise
the name and handwriting of the writer of
the letter which lay locked in her desk.
It was startling news this, that the man
who knew the story of Gervase Critchett

was in England, and would shortly make
his appearance at the Castle. She had
taken it for granted that all communications
on this matter would be hj pen
and ink across fifteen thousand miles of
ocean, and had formed her plans accordingly
; it had never for a moment
occurred to her that Gervase's guardian
would follow in this fashion on the heels
of his letter.

'rit came this morning, madam," said
Mr. Stubbs, watching her face as she read
it ; "I recognised the handwriting, and,
of course, would not lay it before Sir Peter
until I had your instructions on the
matter."

*show dared you " Madge began,

but broke off sharply, her words of reproach
dying on her lips before they could be
uttered. How dared she in very truth
even frame them in thought ?

She stood with one hand resting on the
table, the other she pressed against her hot
eyeballs. After all, this announcement of
the Eev. Mr. Parker's intentions savoured
somewhat of the nature of a reprieve, in
so far as it assured to her definite space
wherein to arrange her plans.

It seemed as if Mr. Stubbs read her
thoughts.  ' It seems to me, there is no
time to be lost, madam," he said, **a
month soon slips past."

Madge made an impatient movement
with her hand.

'* It is a crisis in Mr. Olive's life," he
went on, insinuatingly. *'He is reckless,
broken-hearted ; a second blow might
drive him headlong to desperation  I only
suggest "

Madge threw back her head. She
pointed to the door. *' Go," she said, in a
voice in which hatred and fear strove for

mastery. " Go, and never dare to come

near me again."

Mr. Stubbs went immediately. He,
however, carefully left the Eev. Joshua
Parker's letter behind him on the table.

Madge stood staring at it blankly for a
few minutes, then she deposited it under
lock and key beside the Rev. Joshua
Parker's former communication. She had
now the responsibility of two purloined
letters resting on her shoulders.

My dear boy, my dear boy," said Sir
Peter, now at one end of the study, now
at the other, "think it over. Africa, did
you say ? For years ? No, no, you don't
mean it ? Make it months  and  and
wouldn't Vienna, or Paris, or Rome, or  
or  New York even do as well ? "

They might do every whit as well  or
as ill," answered Lance, slowly. '' But I
think it will be Africa."

Nevertheless, it didn't look as if it would
be Africa "  that is to say if, as might be
supposed to be the case, a journey to
Africa implied a little energy on the part
of the would-be traveller. He was leaning

VOL. II. M

heavily against the study mantelpiece,
while Sir Peter pursued his peregrinations.
Lady Judith had in no wise exaggerated
in her portraiture of Lance, when she had
described him as looking " the wreck of
himself." He had all the appearance of a
man stunned by a heavy blow, whom
instinct sends crawling: out of sisht while
he gets his breath back again.

Sir Peter paused in front of the young
man, executing his favourite heel and toe
.movement, his eyebrows going up and
down with the motion. One terrible half-hour
passed in Lance's company at Liverpool
had revealed to him the true state of his
feelings towards Miss Shore. He was
afraid of raising even the ghost of that
terrible half-hour now, yet he knew that
Lance must be reasoned with, and not
allowed in a sudden rash moment to ruin
his whole future.

The situation seemed to him to require
diplomatic treatment, and he felt that he
had a great many threads to manipulate at
that moment.

He racked his brains to think of the
strongest argument he could bring to bear,
and after tip-toying and going back on his
heels for about a minute and a half,
brought out the remark, " Africa is a honos
way off," and then he set off round the
room again.

"Yes," was all Lance's reply.

'' And  and, my dear boy, how do
you mean to get there ? " said the old
gentleman, from the farther end of the
room.

Upon my life, I don't care twopence-halfpenny
about that. All I care about is
to go somewhere  do something, or else I
shall go out of my mind."

Sir Peter audit at the word " do." It

brought him back iu a trice from the
farther end of the room.

"Do ! yes, that's it, that's it, Lance  it's
something to do that you're wanting 
occupation ; your time hangs heavily.
Occupation, my dear boy, is the unacknowledged
necessity of existence. It
means contentment  a mind at rest."
Here he stood at Lance's side. " It means
quiet, peacefulness, tranquillity." The last
word found him at the other end of the
room.

Lance did not seem to hear him. He
had walked away to the window, and now
stood looking out at the cedar tree, under
which he had more than once established
Miss Shore and her easel ; at the sloping
garden-path which led down to the riverbank,
where he had caught sight of her in
hiding among the reeds and osiers ; at the
winding mountain road, up which he had

followed her in his effort to arrest her
death-daring footsteps.

Once upon the topic of occupation, Sir
Peter's eloquence grew apace. He drew
a touching picture of the general deficiency
in funds and workers of the larger portion
of benevolent societies  to hear him speak
one would think that every one of the
charitable institutions of England was on
the verge of bankruptcy  mourned over
his own inability to devote a larger [ portion
of his time to their good work.

But  there, what with the management
of his own estate and Madge's "

But here he broke off abruptly. Madge's
name came to him like an inspiration.

'the truth of it is," he said, "Madge
ought to get married, and then her husband
could look after her affairs. I'm
always at work, and yet I can't keep things
under. Pedestal alone would take the

whole of ca man's time ; and Madge never
takes the slightest interest in anything
connected with it. A most important
question has arisen. The lawyers have
written ao;ain and aoain telling Madoe that
the estate adjoining Redesdale has come
into the market, and unless she buys it up
the speculative builder will get hold of it
and Redesdale will be ruined ; but no, they
can't 2:et her to give them her attention
"

But Redesdale, and Madge's neglect of
it, evidently had no attraction for Lance.
He left his stand at the window and crossed
the room towards the door.

Sir Peter stood in his way, tip-toying
very hard.

Don't you agree with me that she
ought to get married? It's dreadful to
think of that young woman left all alone
with that immense property on her hands

and her own health not what it was. She's
far from strong, Broughton tells me, and
ought to go away at once."

Well, what's to prevent her getting
married? Heaps of men would jump at
the chance of marrying her," said Lance,
absently'.

"My dear boy ! " cried Sir Peter, aghast,
you wouldn't like to see Madge fall into
the hands of a needy adventurer ! "

I should hope she'd have too much
sense ever to do such a tiling," said Lance,
making another effort to get to the door.

Sir Peter laid his hand on his arm.

*' My dear boy, can you put two and
two together and find that they make
four ? " he asked, energetically. " You want
something to do ? AVell, I've told you the
management of Madge's property would
take the whole of a man's time. You want
to start all in a hurry for a journey  to 

to Well, say to the moon. Madge has

been ordered by her doctor to take a trip
in precisely the same direction. Now, do
you understand ? "

But if Lance did understand he did
not say so. He stared blankly at Sir Peter,
then the door opening at that moment from
the other side, he took the opportunity
and made his escape.

The door had opened to admit Mr.
Stubbs. Sir Peter, with energy and a little
touch of irritability, related the heads of
his talk with Lance, and demanded his
sympathy for Madge and the Pedestal
property.

Mr. Stubbs knew all about Pedestal
and the adjoining land. He had a suggestion
to make, and he made it with a great
show of diffidence. It took the form of a
question :

Was the estate adjoining Pedestal

a good paying property, and of the kind
that Sir Peter had had in his mind when
he had talked the other day of buying one
to settle upon Mr. Clive ? "

Sir Peter caught at the suggestion. " It
shall be seen into, Stubbs ; capital idea ! "
he cried, gleefully. Then he started off at
once to confide the notion to some one
else  Lance, if he could find him  if not,
to Madge.

Madge had come downstairs for the first
time that day. She and Lance had met at
the luncheon-table, but had scarcely exchanged
a word. His listless, frowning
face had set her shivering, she had felt as
if some vast ocean had suddenly rolled in
between them, and as if she and he would
never again stand side by side on the same
shore. Then she had become suddenly
conscious that Mr. Stubbs's sleepy eyes
were fixed on her own face, and she had

made a hu-Q effort and had broken into
commonplace talk, complaining of the cold
east wind which had set in, and had vowed
that winter must be beginning ; it was
like a November day.

Lady Judith had recommended her to
have a fire made in her little boudoir, and
to sit there all the afternoon. Whereupon
Madge had kindled into sudden vehemence,
had declared that she hated the
room and would like to have it bricked up.
Then she had risen hastily from the table
and had thrown at Mr. Stubbs one angry,
furtive look which had said : *' I hate you,
I defy you, I mean to assert myself and to
get back a clear conscience."

Mr. Stubbs's acknowledgment for this
courtesy was to say in a low voice as he
held open the door for her to pass out :

**Be cautious, madam, this is a crisis."

After luncheon. Lance had followed Sir

Peter into this study to announce his
intended journey to Africa, and Madge
had wrapt a thick shawl about her and
had gone wandering out into the garden.
A chill air Alas blowing ; winter assuredly
was not yet setting in, but the most golden
of the golden days were over. Madge,
weak still from her short, sharp illness,
felt the bracing wind too strong for her ;
she turned down a sheltered alley  a little
bit of shrubbery leading off the flower-garden
 where the larches entwined their
long feathery boughs overhead, and the
dappled blue sky showed here and there in
patches.

She walked up and down with quick
yet weak footsteps, the echo of Mr. Stubbs's
warning still in her ears. A crisis in
Lance's life was it? She knew that just
as well as he did. Why, his future
positively trembled in the balance. Now

did it behove her, who had dared to
take his future in hand and to say, "It is
for his happiness that my wealth and my
love should be given to him," to finish the
work she had begun, to continue to steep
her soul in deceit in order to assure to him
this wealth and love ? Or, on the other
hand, should she go to him and say :
Lance, hear my confession ; I have done
my best to break your heart with my
supreme folly, do now what 1 had better
have let you do at the first, choose your
future for yourself."

A stupendous effort, a courage all but
heroic, this latter course would demand.
She stood still in the middle of the path,
asking herself if it were in her power todo
this thing  lose for ever the chance of
winning his love, see him, perhaps, in hot
haste and desperation, fling himself headlong
into poverty and ruin.

As she stood thus asking herself these
momentous questions, Lance passed along
slowly at the end of her shady path. A
sudden rush of courage seemed to come
to her. "Now or never it must be' she
said to herself. She waved her hand to
him. He caught sisht of her amono- the
shadows of the larches and went to meet
her.

I was going to the stables to give some
special directions about my hunters  I want
them well looked after while I'm away," he
said, intent on breaking the news of his
intended departure to her.

Madge for the moment could not speak.
She looked up into his face as they stood
there in the breezy sunlight, he looked
down into hers. Each felt thrilled with
a sudden sharp pity for the other's changed,
white face.

Masse was conscience-smitten and silent.

Lance, not being conscience-smitten, had
words to express his pity. " What has
pulled you down in this way, Madge ? " he
asked. *' Come indoors, the breeze is too
strong for you."

Madge laid her hand upon his arm.

'one moment, Lance, I want to speak to
you," she said, in a low, tremulous tone.

More than this her lips were absolutely
incapable of.

Lance looked a little surprised at her
flushing, downcast face. " What is it,
Madge ? " he asked, kindly ; and Madge's
lips parted as if to speak, but still the
words would not come.

But though her lips were silent, her
thoughts were clamorous. " It must be now
or never, Madge Cohen," those thoughts
seemed to say. " Make up your mind at
once which it must be, a full confession,
or lips for evermore to be sealed."

She was trembling from head to foot.

'' Lance, when are you going away ? "
she asked, presently, in the same low,
nervous tone as before.

Paraphrased, her question would have
been :

'' Will you give me another chance of
making my confession ?  the words won't
come to my lips to-day."

To-morrow morning, before you are
down," he answered, '' I shall go straightaway
to Paris, and make up my mind when
I get there what I shall do with myself.
I've prepared Uncle Peter for my being away
a long time  but of course I shall write."

The mingled hopelessness and recklessness
in his tone frightened her. She seized his
hands impetuously in hers.

Oh, don't go  don't go," she implored.
*' Lance, Lance, if you do, you will break
my heart."

Every other thought was swamped now in
the fear lest this might be a final parting.

Lance looked at her wonderingly. This
was Madge in a new light.

*' I don't think you know  I don't think
you understand," he began after a moment's
pause.

*eyes, I do know, I do understand," she
interrupted, impetuously and nervously
as before. ''I know how you  pitied

her " she could not bring the word

loved " to her lips.

Madge," he interrupted, sharply, ** pity
doesn't crush a man into the dust and
take all the life out of him."

Madge grew whiter and whiter.

She let go his hands suddenly, as if
they stung her. But still she cried despairingly
: 'don't go, don't go; oh, why
should you let this  this sorrow ruin your
whole life''

A man must fight through his
troubles in his own fashion, Madge ; this
is my way of fighting through mine," he
answered, gravely. " But come indoors
this east wind is too strong for you
and tell me what you have to tell me
there."

In silence they went back to the house
together, Madge nerving herself as best
she could for what lay before her. 'ein
half an hour it must, it will be, all over,"
she said to herself, " and he will either
hate me and curse me to my face, or he
will forgive me and help me to tell Sir
Peter of my other deceit."

She led the way to the smallest and
sunniest of the drawing-rooms, but still
kept her thick shawl wrapped around her.
He shut the door as they entered. Madge
stood before him flushing and trembling.
'glance, Lance," she said in a voice half-vol.

II. N

come

He took her hands in his. " Why,
what can there be that you should be
afraid to tell me, Madge?" he asked m
kindly astonishment.

The door-handle turned at this moment,
and Mr. Stubbs entered the room. Madge
started but did not attempt to withdraw
her hands from Lance's grasp. ]mr.
Stubbs's face had possibly never before
been seen with so ominous a look on it.
His lips said respectfully enough, " Sir
Peter is looking everywhere for you,
Mrs. Cohen," but his narrowing eyes
said: 'take care, only half your secret
is yours to confess, the other half is
mine."

Madge felt that he had played the spy
on her. She lost her self-control utterly,
her tears came in a flood now, her head

bowed on Lance's hands, which she grasped
convulsively in her own.

'* Don't go, don't go," was all that she
could say. " Don't go, Lance, or it will
break my heart."

And Lance, looking down on her wonderingly
and remembering old love passages
in days gone by, thought he read
the meaning of her passionate tears and
halting words, and felt his own purpose
falter.

Capital idea ! capital idea ! " said Sir
Peter, coming into the room as Mr. Stubbs
backed out of it. " They're in here together,
did you say  the very thing !
Capital fellow Stubbs is  knew he was,
though Lady Judith had so much to say
about him. Well, I've got something special
to say to you two young people. You know
how you've been bothered lately, Madge,
with letters from the lawyers about the land

X 2

adjoining Pedestal ? Well, Mr. Stubbs
suggests that instead of you buying it and
getting more responsibilities and anxieties
on your shoulders, I should buy it for
Lance  eh, do you see now, and settle it
on him! Eh, do you understand, Madge
and  and then  then, don't you see,
don't you understand  it's all in a nutshell
? Well ! if I must speak out "

But Lance interrupted him here. It
was his hands that held Madge's now, not
Madge's that held his, and he answered
Sir Peter with his eyes bent on her bowed
head, " I understand you, at any rate.
Uncle Peter, and it shall be as you wish."

So Madge's confession remained unspoken ;
she fixed the date of her wedding-day
instead. She caught up the burthen of
Miss Shore's song and said : " It is fate,
my lips must be sealed eternally now."
And she set herself to stifle the voice of
her conscience, to banish every thought
but the one that Lance so far was saved,
and to look ahead at naught but the dangers
which had yet to be faced and conquered
for his sake.

Sir Peter did not say it was fate. He
put himself in the place of " the sisters
three," and went about telling everybody
that *' if it had not been for him these
young people would have made a nice mess

of their love affairs ; one would have been
off to Africa, and the other to goodness
only knew where."

He surpassed himself in activity during
the week following the announcement of
the engagement. Nothing went fast enough
to please him. One way or another he
anticipated everything that had to be done
in the way of business arrangements. The
estate to be purchased for Lance must not
be allowed to come into the market, so
his solicitors were commissioned to negotiate
for it privately. Before, however, they
had time to despatch one offer for the
property, Sir Peter had sent off no less
than three. And so on throughout the
transaction. The price of the estate
went up proportionately.

He pushed forward the date of the
wedding-day in much the same fashion.
A three weeks' ensfasement was the utmost

he would hear of. " Why, you've been
engaged from childhood, and ought to have
been married ages ago," he said, anticipating
any possible demur Madge might make,
and skipping lightly over the Cohen episode
in her history.

Lady Judith thought the hurried manner
in which the wedding was arranged typical
of Sir Peter's general method of conducting
affairs, and off and on she had a good
deal to say about it.

On the whole, the two persons most
deeply interested said the least.

Lance a little listlessly accepted the fact,
telling himself a hundred times a day how
grateful he was to Madge for her love, and
that to the end of his days his one aim
would be to put as much happiness as
possible into her life.

But of love-making, so far as he was
concerned, there was not one jot.

Miss Shore's name never passed his lips,
and it was quickly evident to Madge that
they two would have to begin their life
together with a sealed subject between
them.

As the days went by that sealed subject
seemed to her less like a sepulchre, with a
stone decently rolled to its mouth, than
an open grave whose proper occupant
wandered at will, a restless shade, among
the scenes and people to which it wis
supposed to have said good-bye.

If, when they sat side by side, a sudden
silence fell upon him, Madge would say to
herself : ** He is thinking of that girl in
gray, wondering over the mystery of her
life, and what sudden terror drove her to
her death."

Or, if in the course of conversation he
gave an absent answer, or let his gaze rest
lonffer than usual on her face, she would

think bitterly : "He is comparing the
beauty of that girl with my sallow face.
Oh, Madge Cohen, what have you beyond
your wealth to give him ? "

Her thoughts travelled back to the
bright summer's afternoon when, as she
and Lance stood facing each other in the
sunlight, the chill, cold shadow of that
desolate girl had seemed to fall between
them. Well, she might be buried six feet
below the earth in her pauper's coffin, but
she had left her shadow behind her ;
Madge might lock up easels and ball-dress
and change her room a hundred times over,
but all the same the shadow was there.

As the days went by, Madge, instead
of rallying from her short, sharp illness,
grew whiter and thinner. Cold weather
setting in at the beginning of September,
brought with it for her a series of severe
colds ; whereupon, the old doctor once

more lifted up a warning voice, advising
that his patient should get away to the
south before the Cumbrian mists and east
winds set in continuously ; in fact, as soon
as possible, or he would not answer for
the consequences.

Sir Peter would have liked the wedding
to be not as soon as, but sooner than
possible. He redoubled energy over the
business arrangements. Letter - writing
became far too slow a process for him now ;
he took to telegraphing two or three times
a day to his lawyers, also to the trustees
of the property for which he was negotiating.


This property was in Durham, and
promised to yield a good income if judiciously
managed in connection with the
Redesdale estate ; it occurred to Sir Peter
that it might expedite matters if Lance, in
person, were to survey the property and

discuss matters generally with the trustees
of the estate, and the land-steward of
Pedestal.

Then he took Madge vigorously in
hand, and just as in the old days he had
hurried her into her marriage with old
David Cohen, so now he hastened forward
her wedding-day by another seven days.

One of Lady Brabazon's sons was to be
married only the morning before the day
now fixed for Lance's and Madge's wedding.
Lance was to act as his best man.
It was therefore arranged that Lance should
go straight from Durham to this wedding,
which was to take place at York ; spend
the night of that day with the Brabazons,
coming back to Upton in the morning to
receive his bride from Sir Peter's hands at
St. Cuthbert's church.

Lance did not throw much spirit into
the part of "best man," which he was to

perform for his friend. He characterised
the Brabazon wedding as a headstrong,
foolish affair. On the day on which he
set off for Durham, Madge rose at six
o'clock in the morning to have breakfast
with him, and to '' see him off." He spoke
his mind freely to her about his friend's
'' infatuation " as he called it, and vowed
that if the choice had been given him he
would sooner have followed Eric Brabazon
to his grave; "a. man had far better lie
down in his coffin than make suck a
marriage as that."

Madge knew the history of Eric Brabazon's
courtship ; the lady of his choice had as
good as jilted him, but friends had interfered,
and the wedding had eventually been
arranged.

Madge was standing outside in the bright
morning: sunshine caressing Lance's horses
as he said this. She had been saying soft,

sweet things to him with her good-byes,
wondering whether the Pedestal fishing
was as good as that at Upton, whether
the stables there would need enlarging,
and so forth ; when, however, he spoke of
choosing rather to follow Eric Brabazon to
the grave than go to his wedding, her soft
speeches care to a halt. She bent her face
till her curly brown hair seemed one with
the horse's mane. ** He may be happy ; he
may make up his mind to forget the past,"
isle said, in a low voice.

*' What, forget lies and deceit ? " Lance
cried, hotly.

And it doesn't follow because she has
deceived him once that she will attempt
to do so a second time," she continued
after a moment's pause.

If I had been in Eric's place I wouldn't
have given her a chance. The first deliberate
piece of deception would have put

an eternal barrier between us," said Lance,
vehemently.

Madge felt herself frozen into silence.
She walked with him to the park gates,
the groom following slowly with the dogcart
; but she had no more sweet speeches
to make.

An eternal barrier, an eternal barrier,"
her thoughts kept repeating. She watched
him drive away down the steep road,
shading her eyes with her hand to catch
a last glimpse of him. He waved his hat
in farewell, then his hand ; then a bend
in the road hid him from her sisht.

When next we meet it will be before
the altar rails of St. Cuthbert's," she said
to herself, but with none of that rush of
joy in her heart which the words might
be supposed to bring with them. " Would
it be so if I had spoken out the truth and
told him what I have done for his sake ? "

' I beg your pardon, madam' said ]mr.
Stubbs's voice at that moment. " I saw
you walking through the park with Mr.
Clive, and, as I particularly wanted to
speak to you, I ventured to follow."

Madge was startled ; this man, like an
emissary of darkness, seemed perpetually
hovering over her path.

'' AVhat is it ? " she asked, coldly. '' Will
it take long to tell ? "

There is nothing specially to tell,
madam, it is merely a suggestion I have
to make ; it can be made easily enough
as wee walk back to the house too-ether."

That ' we " was a perpetual torture to
Madge. It seemed the outward and visible
sign of the evil bond between her and this
man. She never heard it without feeling
as she felt on the day when old David
Cohen clasped her first diamond necklace
round her throat.

Nevertheless, she did not refuse Mr.
Stubbs's company on her way back through
the park, nor did she attempt to cut his
communications short, for her steps slackened
as they neared the house.

Mr. Stubbs's last words as they parted at
the front door were :

'* Everything is going on satisfactorily,
madam ; just exactly as we could wish."

To this Madge made a sharp, impatient
movement with her hand.

And the second letter, of which you
spoke just now, gives me no anxiety whatever.
If allusion is made to it when the
Rev. Mr. Parker arrives, I simply say I
read it to Sir Peter with some half-dozen
others of a similar kind  there are always
a lot of people writing to make or to break
appointments with hirii, and half the letters
of that sort which I read to him he jays
no attention to  he is either walking about

the room, or thinking of something else.
The first letter is also now a very simple
affair, and the sooner it is in my hands
the better, for really there is no time to
be lost''

VOL. II.

One or two things happened during Lancets .
stay in Durham.

Madge suddenly grew what the French
call devote. She developed a fondness
for saints' days and early services. St.
Cuthbert's old church, off and on, saw a
good deal of her just then.

Her friends in the neighbourhood shared
with St. Cuthbert's church the honour
of her society, for she balanced her devotion
in the early part of the day with an
increase of gaiety towards its close. She
accepted every invitation to entertainments
given in honour of her approaching
marriage ; seemed to enter warmly into

the local enthusiasm that was growing on
the matter, and talked freely of the preliminary
arrangements that were being made
for the wedding.

Once, however, when so chatting with
Lottie Brabazon, she was suddenly frozen
into silence by a remark made by that
light-hearted young lady.

It was :

Of course you will be married in
gray  it's the only colour widows can
wear."

Madge felt that she would as soon be
married in her shroud as have to face
Lance at the altar in gray garments.

Something else noteworthy occurred while
Lance was away inspecting the Durham
property. A sudden remarkable increase
of intimacy seemed to spring up between
Mrs. Cohen and Mr. Stubbs, and they
were frequently to be seen in each other's

o 2

company. Sir Peter noted the fact, and
rubbed his hands over it with delight.

*' Capital fellow that ! " he said to Madge.
'Vm glad to see you appreciate him. I
think I've an eye for character, eh, Madge ?
although Lady Judith, at first, hadn't a
good word to say for him. Now, if you
could get just such a man as that for
your land - steward at Pedestal, he'd
double the value of your property in less
than ten years."

Madge, standing with her back to the
light, and speaking in a hurried voice,
gave an answer which almost took Sir
Peter's breath away.

I was thinking of pensioning off the
present steward at Pedestal. He's very
old and not very active  and I was
wondering if  if you thought  if you
would like, I mean  Mr. Stubbs to take
the post. I mean if you were thinking of

getting a new secretary, Mr. Stubbs
might like to undertake the steward's
duties at Redesdale."

She had stammered a great deal over
this speech. In truth, it was a speech not
easy to make gracefully.

Sir Peter was fairly taken aback. " My
dear child, my dear child ! " was all he
could say at first. Then he walked up
and down the room once or twice very fast.
Then he stood still in front of her, and
tip-toed and lifted his eyebrows at her till
she felt quite giddy.

'* I wasn't thinking of making a change,
Madge," he said; 'but now you speak of
it, I think Stubbs is exactly the man for
the post you could give him. He's getting
on. in life  a younger man could write my
letters and do all I should require. His
remuneration as your steward would be
twice what I should give him as secretary.

He would have a nice house, servants, and
horses of his own. Yes, capital idea ! I
won't stand in his light. Think it over !
No, there's no need to do that. Consider
it settled, my dear. I'm delighted."

After this arrangement was made, it was
only natural that Mr. Stubbs and sledge
should be still more in each other's society.
It seemed reasonable to suppose that there
were many matters in connection with the
stewardship at Pedestal that required
discussion and arrangement.

Thanks to Sir Peter's telegrams and the
general energy which he displayed on the
matter, the purchase of the Durham property,
and the deeds conveying it to Lance, were
much less lengthy businesses than such
things generally are. Two days after
Lance's departure to  Durham, and three
before the day fixed for the wedding, saw
the purchase as good as concluded by

the payment of an instalment of the
purchase-money by Sir Peter to seal the
bargain. Final legal forms, it was arranged,
should be gone through on Lance's return

o o

with Madoe from their weddings-tour.

** And they talk about the interminable
length of law processes," said Sir Peter
triumphantly, to Mr. Stubbs. '' Why, how
long have we had this matter in hand, eh ?
Park, woods, river, farms, in all about
one thousand eight hundred acres ; rent-roll
about five thousand a year ; and we've
as good as pulled it through in three weeks'
time! Now we've just a few telegrams
to send off this morning to the Durham
people, and then we'll set to work on the
day's correspondence."

If Mr. Stubbs had had two pairs of
hands, one for the day's telegrams, the
other for its letters, he might have been
able to satisfy the demands of Sir Peter's

energy. As it was, long before the telegrams
were despatched, Sir Peter was asking
the question, " Anything of importance today,
Stubbs ? " and had begun his usual
quick-march, which betokened that replies
were ready to ooze out of his fingers'
tips.

Mr. Stubbs laid aside his telegrams and
read in succession one or two unimportant
letters which the morning's post had
brought. Then he laid his hand upon a
packet of three letters, and his face grew
long and serious.

** These, Sir Peter," he said, *'I grieve
to tell you, were, by Mr. Olive's orders,
placed on one side unopened in an inner
compartment of your writing-table, and, I
am sorry to say, have been forgotten. If
you remember when you had the "

When I was ill," interrupted Sir Peter.
Of late he had grown sensitive on the

score of the juvenile ailment, and had
repudiated it, asserting that Broughton
had made a mistake, and that it had been
nothing but nettle-rash after all.

Mr. Stubbs bowed. " When you were
ill. Sir Peter, if you remember, for one day
Mr. Clive undertook your correspondence.
He dictated a general answer to a few
letters, and told me to put the rest on one
side, as no doubt they'd answer themselves
if let alone."

Just like him I Read them out,
Stubbs."

"I'm sorry to say afterwards they were
forgotten."

Ah, Madge, I remember, undertook my
correspondence the next day  so she forgot
them, eh ? "

I fear I must own to the neglect. Sir
Peter. Mrs. Cohen attended to everything
that I put before her."

*' Ah, well, open and read them ; I don't
suppose it matters much."

The first letter opened and read was the
prospectus of a mining company in the adjoining
county. It had no date attached.
It received a scanty attention, and was
forthwith tossed into the waste-paper
basket.

The second letter shared a similar fate.
It was an intimation from a brewing firm
that they were about to convert themselves
into a chartered company. There was no
date to this communication also.

The third letter Mr. Stubbs opened with
a little preamble.

It has an Australian postmark. I
trust its contents did not require immediate
acknowledgment," he said, in a concerned
voice.

And then he began to read the story of
Gervase Critchett, as told by the Ev.
Joshua Parker.

But long before he had got half-way
through it, Sir Peter had cried to him in a
hoarse voice : " Stop ! Stop ! For Heaven's
sake, stop ! " and had got up from his seat,
and had taken the letter into his own hands
to read.

His hands, however, trembled so violently
that he was perforce obliged to
spread the paper before him on the table.
And til en there had come a mist before
his eyes, so that the lines danced backwards
and forwards, and reading became
an impossibility ; so he handed the letter
back to Mr. Stubbs.

'' Go on," he said. " Read quickly."

He leaned back in his chair for a good
five minutes, still and silent, his brain
possibly over weighted, not only by the
startling news that letter brought, but by
the memories of years long gone by, which
the startling news conjured up from the
land of shadows. ,

But that five minutes at an end, Sir
Peter was himself again. He jumped up
from his chair, seized the Australian letter,
and rang the bell violently.

*' Ask Lady Judith to come here to meat
once  important news," was the order
he grave to the servant who answered his
summons. 'rand  and Mrs. Cohen also."

And then as soon as the servant had
disappeared, he rang the bell again to
countermand the order. Four walls couldn't
contain him at that moment, and before the
servant could answer his second summons,
he had set off to scour the house and
grounds in search of Lady Judith and
Madge.

Lady Judith, in her morning-room,
studying with deep interest a catalogue of
patent farming appliances, was suddenly
startled by having the price-list shut out
from her view by a letter in strange

handwriting spread athwart it by Sir
Peter.

'' Read it," he shouted into her ear,
'* and tell me what you think of it."

Before, however, she had time to realise
the fact that it was something other than a
written recommendation of the barrel churns
which she was contemplating so lovingly
in her picture - catalogue, Sir Peter had
disappeared through the window, having
caught sight of Madge coming up the drive
towards the house.

Madge was wrapt in furs, and had on
the thickest of Shetland veils ; she had
complained a good deal of the cold of late,
and had taken to muffling herself up as if
it were mid winter. When Sir Peter had
breathlessly told his startling news, she
had a sharp fit of coughing which for
the moment prevented her making any
comment thereon, and Sir Peter, while

executing a quick-march up and down the
gravel path, discoursed upon Gervase, his
manners and doings from boyhood upwards.

A handsome fellow he was ! My poor
mother used to say whenever I put her
out that it was a thousand pities Gervase
hadn't come into the world first, he would
have carried the title with so much more
dignity than I should. Poor Gervase !
Poor Gervase ! I remember he had a good
opinion of himself  never would take
advice  restless, too, he was  always wanting
to do half-a-dozen things at once  used
to have a hundred and one schemes in hand
at the same moment, but never brought any
of them to maturity ! Poor Gervase, a sad
ending ! I wonder if his boy is like him in
any way ! "

By the time he had got to Ger vase's boy,
Madge had recovered her voice, and was
ready to ask a few questions.

'what will you do about the boy 
send for him, I suppose, to Upton ? " was
the first.

Of course, of course ; what else in life
could I do ? I shall telegraph to him this
very day, sending the message from *your
uncle at Upton.' Poor little lad ! And
he's in a state of anxiety for fear we
shouldn't give him a welcome ! Gervase's
only boy not to feel sure of a welcome !
Thank Heaven for the cablegram, Madge.
Fancy that poor boy having to wait three
months for the news that his father's
people would hold out their hand to him !
And that letter already has been most unfortunately
delayed. Ah, you don't know
about that  never mind, I haven't time to
tell you now 1 " Here Sir Peter in a great
hurry pulled out his watch. " Haven't a
minute to spare, Madge, I'm off at once to
Durham to tell Lance the jxood news.

You explain everything to Laclj Judith.
I shall just save a train at Lower Upton if
I'm quick about it."

Madge demurred vigorously to his hot
haste to carry his news everywhere. She
felt that her lips  by right of her love and
sacrifice for him  should have been the
ones to tell this tale to Lance.

But Sir Peter was resolute, and Madge
had to realise the truth of Lance's saying,
that, *'If once Uncle Peter took a thing into
his head, not the Lords, nor the Commons,
nor the whole bench of Bishops combined
could get it out."

Lance was seated in his quiet little
country inn writing a few lines to JMadge,
when the startling announcement was made
to him that Sir Peter was below waiting to
see him.

Lance had arran-ed to be at York on the
morrow, in order to be present at Eric

Brabazon's wedding. He had spent the day
in taking a final survey of his newly-acquired
property, planning alterations and
improvements.

From the window where he Sat, writing
his letter to Madge, he could see the exact
point where his estate met the Pedestal
land. Pedestal itself, with its park, woods,
and meadows, formed the larger portion of
the landscape of which the window commanded
a view. Between the trees he
could catch a glimpse of the house: a
handsome, modern structure of palatial
dimensions.

Most men in Lance's position, with such
a prospect as this facing them, would have
owned to thoughts of a decidedly roseate
hue.

*'A11 to be mine so soon, and a loving
wife into the bargain ! And youth and
health mine also ! Lance Clive, you're a

VOL. II. p

lucky fellow ! " If thoughts such as these,
with a touch of pride and triumph in them,
had found expression in the letter he was
penning, it might have been pardoned him.

There was, however, no necessity to
plead extenuating circumstances for the
letter that lay before him . It was soberly
worded to the last degree ! the sort of
letter which a brother might have written
to a loving sister with an eye to its perusal
by the whole family afterwards.

And, soberly worded though it was,
once or twice his pen had slackened in its
task, and his left hand had pressed his
eyes as if to shut out a vision, that night
and day seemed ever before them, of a
girl, with wan, white face, waving a farewell
to him from out a shadowy darkness, while
her lips, as if in mockery of the farewell she
waved, bade him 

Go back and dance."

The announcement of Sir Peter's arrival
sent his thoughts running in all sorts of
channels ; something must have happened.
Illness ? Death ? His fears flew to the
worst.

But Sir Peter's beaming face reassured
him quickly enough, and the old gentleman
had not been five minutes in the room
before the story of the two Pervades had
been begun and ended.

Lance listened in silent astonishment.
Many a time when the story of G-ervase
Critchett's erratic ways had been told him,
he had felt disposed to envy the man his
life of adventure in spite of the ill-luck
which had seemed to attend it. Now the
awfulness of the ending of that life  the
hopelessness and desperation of the man,
with death facing him and those dearest
to him  was the thing that touched him
most.

P 2

''He must Lave died a thousand times
over that night," he said, pitifully, and
then there fell a silence between the two
which Sir Peter broke by forcing a cheerful
voice, and reading over again the story
of Gervase Critchett, the younger.

Then other thoughts began to come to
Lance. He rose from his chair, and laid
his hand on Sir Peter's shoulder.

*' Uncle Peter' he said, gravely, '' the
estate you have been buying for me is so
much robbery to Gervase  it must be his,
not mine."

Sir Peter's amazement w-as boundless.
Such a notion as this had not for a moment
entered his brain. It took him a longtime
to grasp it.

That " he might do what he liked with
his own, lie had enough and to spare for
Gervase," was the first argument wherewith
he endeavoured to rebut it  an argument,

however, which fell pointless before
Lance's vigorous reasoning on the matter.

Lance, to his own fancy, stood pictured
as an interloper who had somehow crept
up the backstairs to good luck, .while the
one who had the right to enter it by the
front-door had been barred out in the cold.

Poor boy ; poor little fellow," he said,
to be knocking about in the world in that
way, and a stranger here to step into his
rights ! "

Sir Peter tried his hardest to make him
see the matter in another light. But logic
had never been Sir Peter's strong point.
His arguments were mostly interjections,
spoken now at Lance's elbow, anon at the
further end of the room.

The sun went down, the moon rose ;
the inmates of the quiet little inn put out
their lights and went to bed; but still
Lance and Sir Peter talked on, Lance

getting firmer in his reasoning, Sir Peter s
interjections gaining in vehemence and
intensity.

"My clear boy, my dear boy," he had
said over and over assail, " I have brought
you up to no profession. It would be like
sending a soldier out to battle without
weapons, to turn you out into the world to
get your own living."

To which Lance had replied, also over
and over again:

I have a head and I have hands ; if
I can't use one I can use the other ; and no
man with both at command can be said to
be without weapons."

At last, one of Sir Peter's interjections
struck a key-note not to be silenced by
argument. It was :

The tie between you and me, my boy,
is as strong as any of blood could be."

Lance faltered a little at this.

If you don't choose to be looked upon
as my eldest son, take the place of second
and best loved," Sir Peter went on, seeing
what words of his had told most.

Whereupon Lance had felt himself driven
farther back in the field.

Finally, and this was when the night
had nearly ended and both men were a
little wearied with the strain of feeling
they had undergone. Sir Peter had brought
out three words :

'' Think of Madge ! ''

And then Lance, paraphrasing the words
somewhat thus : " If you refuse this property,
how dare you, a pauper, offer marriage
to Madge with her wealth ? " struck
his colours and gave up the contest, on the
condition that Sir Peter would commission
his solicitors to settle the estate on him for
life only, and that on his death it was
to revert to Gervase and his heirs.

Just before Lance had started for Durham,
a terrible storm had swept the Cumberland
coast; boats had been dashed to pieces
on the rocks, some fishing-smacks, which,
as a last chance had bravely put out to sea
in the teeth of the gale, had been swamped,
and not a soul on board had been saved.

In all, eight men and one boy had
perished ; four bodies only, however, had
been washed ashore, together with remnants
of the boats.

With Sir Peter and Madge in the immediate
neighbourhood, it was not likely
that destitution would be added to the grief
of the bereaved families.

Madge yas an angel of goodness to
them ; in spite of her own increasing
inability to face the keen, rough air of the
coast, every morning found her in the
cottages of these poor souls, doing her
utmost to assure their series and to meet
their necessities. It was she who paid all
funeral expenses as body after body was
washed in by the tide ; and finally, when
hope failed of the recovery of the other
bodies, she requested the Vicar of St.
Cuthbert's to hold a memorial service that
should be a fitting tribute to those whose
resting-place could be marked by neither
mound nor tablet. This service, by her
special request, was to take place on the
evening before the day fixed for her
wedding.

All the arrangements for the wedding
were now completed. It had been decided
that it should be as quiet as wedding could

well be. Eight o'clock in the morning: was
the time fixed for the ceremony. Madge
was to be married in her travelling-dress,
and was to drive straight from the church
to the railway station, en route for Italy,
by way of London.

Lady Judith had uttered her last lament
over the unseemly haste with which the
wedding had been urged forward. After
saying, in her most scathing manner, right
into Sir Peter's face, that "There were
some people who would like to live out
their lives in half an hour, and would
send twenty minutes of that time in
winding up the clock and greasing its
wheels to make it go faster," she turned
her attention to Sir Peter's newly found
nephew and heir, taking for her text the
misdoings of Gervase' the elder, and old
Lady Critchett's foolish indulgence of him.

Madge had lived through one terrible

night of suspense  the night after Sir
Peter's departure for Durham  wondering
with a wonder akin to agony how Lance
had borne the news which cut him off
from his former brilliant social position.
Sir Peter, returning radiant on the following
morning with triumphant accounts of
the manner in which he had vanquished
Lance's Quixotic notions  as he called
them  relieved her of this distress.

Naught now remained for her to do, she
assured herself, but to forget the past and
live for the future only.

'repast cure should be past care'" she
said to herself, from morning till night of
the two days that remained to her before
her wedding-day. " The past is dead and
should be buried ; the future is mine. I
have saved Lance from folly and beggary.
I may well cry * Victory ! ' now."

She looked at herself in the glass on the

day before the one that was to make
her Lance's wife, and vowed that she had
never looked so young and happy in her
life before. She went so far as to scold
her maid vigorously ; first, for not echoing
her assertion ; secondly, for venturing
to suororest that the memorial service for
the poor, drowned fishermen was scarcely
one that a bride-elect should be expected to
attend on the eve of her wedding-day.

That memorial service was one of the
saddest and most solemn that had ever
taken place in St. Cuthbert's old church.
Certainly a bride-elect seemed a little out
of place in a church draped with black?
and filled with mourners.

The minute-bell tolled unceasingly
during the service. Part of the funeral
service was read, then followed Luther's
judgment hymn, and finally St. Paul's
grand resurrection chapter.

And through it all, with never a pause,
the waves on the outside shore beat their
own monotonous requiem for the dead,
outstanding in the pauses of the service
the sobs of the women in the church ; the
voice of the preacher even, as he flung
down the gauntlet to death, with the cry,
death, where is thy sting ? grave,
where is thy victory ? "

Madge felt her self-control giving way.
Again and again she essayed to keep her
mind fixed on those poor, drowned men,
over whom the words " earth to earth "
were never to be spoken ; the ghost of
another drowned soul, as with human voice,
seemed to put in its claim to a share in
this memorial tribute : " Was not I even
more desolate than they, and was not my
ending every whit as tragic ? You gave
me but scant kindness in my lifetime, is
it too much to ask a tear of you now ! "

Madge abruptly rose from her seat, and,
letting her veil fall over her face, left the
church. .

She had given orders that the carriage
should meet her at the foot of the steep
pathway leading up from the valley. It
wanted fully half an hour of the time she
had fixed for it to be there, so she
wandered slowly round the church, to its
western side, to catch all she could of
the sea breeze.

Outside in the growing dark the scene
was as drear as within the church. The
sky was one broad expanse of gray, unbroken
save where a pale moon, travelling
down to the horizon, showed faintly
through some jagged clouds. Beneath,
the sea stretched a still more sombre expanse
of gray, from out which the dirge of
the waves rose unceasingly with its hopeless
" break, break, break." Behind her lay

the dim churchyard, where the chill ocean
breeze seemed to wander, ' soughing under
its breath' as if it had somehow lost its
way among the ghostly white tombstones
which accentuated the gloom.

Madge drew her cloak more closely round
her and shrank under the shelter afforded
by the projecting corner of the church
porch. The days in which she used to
rejoice in the wash of the waves and the
rush of the sea breeze were past for ever
now.

A light shone in one of the church
windows above the organ, and presently
the tones of Chopin's sublime funeral march
sounded. To Madge's fancy, those grand
strains had ever seemed less like music
evoked by mortal fingers from an instrument
made by mortal hands than a story
of human agony, desolation, and death
acted out before her " mind's eye." There

were the dull, monotonous beats as of
heavy hearts, heavy feet conveying a
heavy burthen ; suddenly athwart this there
seemed to come a triumphant outburst of
resurrection joy as from a church towards
which the mourners were journeying with
their heavy burthen. Then there began
once more the dull, monotonous beat of
heavy footsteps, heavy hearts returning
with half of themselves left behind.

But, to-night, the wizardry of the music
conjured up another scene to her fancy.
Those dull, heavy, monotonous chords
were not human footsteps journeying to a
church, but the weary feet of cattle being
driven along a heavy road  a slow herd
going with lagging tread from the market
to the slaughter-house. What had seemed
to her a burst of resurrection joy came
now as a wail, with the echo of words in
it which she had somewhere heard before :

*' There are some who from cradle to grave
never have a chance given them."

Suddenly a hand was laid on her
shoulder. She turned to find Lance bending
over her. She thanked Heaven for the
shelter of her black veil.

I knew your figure at once," he said.
Tve been home  they told me where I
should find you. Madge, come round this
corner  the people are leaving the church
now  and I will tell you why I have come
here to-night." T

Madge followed him to the side of the
church which she had just quitted, where
the dull, dark-gray stretch of sky hung
above the duller, darker, grayer stretch
of sea.

His words did not seem to come easily.
They stood there in silence for a few
minutes, a silence broken by the tread of
the congregation leaving the church, by

VOL. II. Q

the dying strains of the solemn funeral
march, by the slow "break, break" of the
waves.

When at last he spoke, his voice was
very unlike that of the light-hearted young
fellow with whom at one time she had
delighted to fence and to squabble.

I don't think, Madge, the funeral
service you've been attending to-night is
one quarter so sad as the wedding I was
at this morning ! " he said. '' If you could
have seen Eric's face ! Depend upon it,
there'll be a tragedy in his home before
the year is out."

Madge said nothing. The words, " Why
should there be ? " trembled on her lips,,
but she dared not speak them.

He went on :

"He loves the girl he has married to
distraction ; but he doesn't trust her  it
was on his face as he led her out of the

church. I said to myself, ' Thank Heaven,
it won't be thus between Madge and me !
Whatever there is not between us, there
will at least be perfect truth and trust
And then I started back aghast at my own
effrontery, asking myself what right I had
to expect any woman to trust me all in all,
when I had trusted her not at all  when, in
fact, half my heart was hidden away from
her. So there and then I made up my
mind, dear, that before I met you at the
church in the morning I would go to you
and lay my heart bare to you  that as weare
to be husband and wife in name, so
should we be in deed and in truth  that
there should be no past, no present, no
future to come between us."

His voice had kindled with his last
sentence. He paused, evidently expecting
a word from Madge.

None came, so he repeated :

No past to separate us, do you see,
Madge ? "

Madge's lips parted, but instead of a
gentle-murmured assent there came a low,
half stifled sob.

He drew her towards him.

'don't be frightened, Madge," he said,
gently. '' I have no confession to make
that need part us, unless you so will it.
You know half my secret already  it concerns
Jane Shore."

Madge shuddered, and shrank from his
touch.

Does it pain you ? " he asked. " Shall
I stop ? Don't you see, dear, I am raising
the ghost of this 'past, so as to set it at
rest for ever."

Go on," was all she could bring her
lips to utter in lows all - but inaudible
tone.

It is soon told, Madge," he went on.

"You may have thought that I only pitied
this girl, and wanted to help her out of
kindness. It was not that  I loved her,
truly, honestly, passionately ; and once
here, on this very spot, as we stood together
looking at the stars, I made her an
offer of marriage."

Madoe started and beo-an to tremble
violently.

She would not listen to me," Lance
went on, speaking hurriedly now. " She
said there was ill-fortune hanging over her
head "

He stopped abruptly, his voice grew unsteady.
" Madge," he said, brokenly, '' do
you know sometimes I think that she ended
her life solely to prevent me from linking
mine to hers''

But here his words failed him.

It was a minute or more before he could
go on.

And now that you know everything,
dear, will you forgive me if I say I can't
tear the thought of her out of my heart ?
Will you think that such a thought as this
ought to separate us one from the other, or
will you share it with me  the tenderness
and pity for her I mean ? ''"

Again he broke off.

Madge's veiled face and solemn silence
made him wonder.

The chill breeze swept past. The leaden
clouds overhead parted and let the pale
moonlight filter through. It threw a gaunt
shadow here and there ; one, that of a tall
white cross, which stood out from the ranks
of square tombstones, fell in clear outline
at Madge's very feet.

*' Lift your veil, dear," he said. " Put
your hands in mine ; look up in my face !
Let us say to each other that as we join
hands so will we join hearts, with never a
thought to divide us."

Madge's trembling hand lifted her veil
from her white face, but she dared not lift
her eyes to meet his.

He held her hands fast, her head bowed
over them.

'look up, Madge," he said, "speak tome.
Let me hear from your lips that not
this nor anything else can come between us
now."

Madge's lips moved, but with the shadow
of that cross lying at her feet, she dared
not speak the words he craved.

Another shadow fell, at that moment,
athwart her hands as Lance held them,
and thence to the ground at her feet, a
shadow rounded, shaped as of a woman's
figure.

Madge started and turned to see who
stood behind them.

On the topmost of the steps leading upto
the porch and well clear of its shadowy
arch, there seemed to stand the tall, slight

figure of a woman, clad in gray draperies,
with white face upturned to the faint
moon.

Madge gave a low, terrified cry. Only
Lance's arms prevented her from foiling
senseless to the ground.

CHAPTER I.

"I SAW nothing  absolutely nothing,"
said Lance. " All I know is that Madge
gave a startled cry and fell forward
fainting. Her nerves, I should say, were
over-strung  she has been far from well
lately, you know  and she fancied she
saw something. It was a thousand pities
she attempted the funeral service."

The Vicar had come to Lance's aid in
the churchyard, and between them they
had got Madge down to her carriage, and
thence home. Arrived at home, she had

VOL. III. B

gone from one fainting fit into another
during the early part of the night, and now,
weak and exhausted, lay upon her bed while
Sir Peter and Lance together discussed the
strange occurrence.

Sir Peter echoed Lance's regret. " Yes,
a thousand pities," he said, pushing back
his chair and indulging in a brisk trot
round the room, " but I've no doubt she'll
be all right again by the morning ; a goodnight's
rest works wonders"  this was
said at Lance's elbow. " And the little
trip to Italy is just the very thing she's
needing"  this was said at the door.
I say, Lance ! "  here he came back at
a run to Lance's elbow once more, with a
look on his face which proclaimed a serious
subject for thought on hand now.

Lance looked at him absently. He was
leaning forward as he sat gazing dreamily
into the fire. His appearance was scarcely

that of a happy-hearted bridegroom who
expected to have his happiness crowned
on the morrow.

Sir Peter was determined to have the
whole of his attention.

' I say, Lance," he said again, raising
his voice, " I do hope they'll remember
to unmuffle that bell at the church ; it
would be dreadful if they started your
wedding-peal tomorrow with a muffled C."

Then he set off on tramp again once
more.

"Oh, they'll think of it right enough.
The men are supposed to have an idea or
two about their work."

*'I think I had better send down a
Tuessaore in the mornings to make sure  or
two, perhaps ; one to the Vicar, and one
to the verger ? "

Here he paused in his quick march for a
moment in front of his writing-table, as if

B 2

intending there and then to despatch his
notes to Vicar and verger. He took up
a pen, felt its nib, then laid it down and
rubbed his eyes.

The truth of it is I'm horribly sleepy,"
he said, deprecatingly, as if the fact called
for an apology. 'Tve had, on the whole,
a busy day  a busy and exciting day, I
might say."

Lance roused himself from his reverie.

If I were you, I should go to bed.
You'll have lots to do tomorrow, you
know."

Sir Peter rubbed his eyes again.

Yes, I suppose, off and on, there will
be a good deal on my hands," he said,
complacently, " and one can't do without
sleep altogether."

I wouldn't try if I were you. It's
past two "

*eyes, and I must be up early. I've

told Simmonds to call me at five. And,
by the way, Lance, don't you think an
awning should be put up from the church
to the gate ?  it might rain, you know.
By the way, I wonder if it will rain ; I'll
just tap the barometer again."

** The one outside your bedroom door is
more dependable than this, and here's
your lamp, Uncle Peter," said Lance,
facilitating as far as possible the old
gentleman's departure.

Half-way up the stairs he paused, calling
to Lance over the balusters. " I say. Lance,
I suppose there really is nothing to keep
me up any longer ? Madge is really coming
round all right, isn't she ? "

'* Lady Judith said she left her asleep
half an hour ago, and her maid has gone
to bed in the next room  there can be
nothing to keep you up. Good-night."

Sir Peter went a step or two higher, then

came to a standstill again. " And you
may set your mind at rest about that
bell, Lance," lie said. '' I shall go to
sleep with it on my mind, and think of it
the very first thing in the morning, so don't
you trouble about it."

But Lance made no reply this time.
He had gone back to the study, and his
gloomy thoughts swooping down upon
him once more, his ears were shut to Sir
Peter's voice.

He leaned moodily against the mantelpiece,
staring into the live coals  his
thoughts a turmoil so far as the present
was concerned, and a blank as to the
future.

What was it that had changed Mado-e
so much of late ? What was the reason of
her extraordinary terror in the churchyard,
and, above all, why was it that she
had failed, in response to his direct appeal,.

to give pledge for pledge, and reciprocate
trust with trust ? These were the uppermost
of the doubts which presented themselves
for solution. But below these,
sounding a deeper note, were other doubts
and questions equally difficult to answer.
Did this marriage that he was about to
contract with Madge really promise happiness
in the future for her, for him, or, to
put it on a lower ground, contentment
and satisfaction ? Had he been wise in
thus yielding to Uncle Peter's wishes ?
Was not the past too real, too living for
it to be hurried in this way into its
grave of oblivion ?

The fire burned low ; the lamp on the
table grew dim while these thoughts, in
slow procession, trooped across his brain.
The room was a large one ; it seemed all
shadows at the farther end, save where
the half open door admitted a faint patch

of lamplight from the dimly-lighted, outer
hall.

Across this faint patch of light there
suddenly fell a stronger gleam as from a
lamp carried by hand. A tremulous hand,
too, it must have been, for the gleam
wavered ; now high, now low, it fell upon
the floor.

It's Uncle Peter back ao[ain," thought
Lance, leaving his leaning posture at the
fireplace and going to the door.

But in the doorway he paused, astonished
to see not Sir Peter but Madge
descending the broad flight of stairs, in
some long, trailing, white gown.

His first thought was that she was
walking in her sleep ; a second look undeceived
him. Her steps were too rapid
and unsteady for those of a sleep-walker,
also her eyes had not the fixed, staring
expression of a dreamer, but were bright

and dancing. The light of her lamp,
thrown upward on her face, emphasized
its pallid wanness, framed in a cloudy halo
of short, dusky, dishevelled hair.

'why, Madge, what is it?" he cried,
advancing to meet her and taking the lamp
from her hand.

I have something to say to you  something
I must say at once  to-night, for I
cannot live through another nio-ht with it
unsaid," answered Madge, in low, unsteady
tones, as she passed in front of him into
the library.

He followed her in simple, blank astonishment.
He set down her lamp on a side
table and laid his hand on her shoulder.

Say on, dear, if it must be said," he
answered, kindly.

And standing thus facing her, and looking
down into her troubled face, he was
struck with the havoc which sleepless nights

and anxious days had wrought in her.
Madge, at her best, would never have been
a beauty ; but he had been accustomed
to see her piquante, radiant, full of animation
and spirits. It seemed impossible
that aught but years of actual bodily
suffering could have sharpened her features
in this fashion, traced such rings
round her eyes, and lines of care about
her mouth.

Her eyes did not meet his as they stood
thus. They went wandering hither and
thither, now to the dark corners at the
farther end of the room, anon to the half-opened
door with a searching, terrified
look in them.

What is it, Madge ? " he asked. '' What
do you think you see there ? "

And then another fear took possession
of him. This might be the first state of
some delirious fever. The right course

would be to get her as quickly as possible
back to her room.

He took her hands in his.

Wouldn't it be better to get back to
your room, Madge, and try for some sleep ? "
he asked. *' To-morrow you can tell me
anything you like, you know."

Madge did not seem to hear him, though
he could feel her thrill to his touch. Her
eyes were still wandering from corner to
corner, the terror in them deepening.

*' Do you see anything ? " she asked,
presently, in a frightened whisper.

Nothing-absolutely," he answered, the
impression that she was suffering from
delirium growing upon him. "Come, Madge,
let me see you up the stairs again to your
room. It'll soon be morning ; try and get
an hour or two of sleep."

She drew a long breath and looked up
in his face.

Sleep ! " she repeated. *' I tell you
there will be no sleep for me till I've told
you the truth  the whole truth from 
to end ! "

She looked down on his hands which
still clasped her cold, trembling ones in a
warm grasp, and suddenly bowed her head
over them, kissing them passionately.

*' Oh dear, dear hands ! " she cried,
brokenly, " how can I speak words which
will make them grow cold as death tome
! "

Lance grew alarmed.

I don't think anything you could tell
me would bring; that about, Badges'' he
answered, gravely ; but for all that his
heart quaked for wdiat her tale might be.

She looked up in his face piteously.

Not if I were to tell you  that it was
I who drove Jane Shore out of the house
and sent her to her death ? " she asked,

bringing out the words with difficulty, and
with many a pause between them.

His hands let go at once.

Wh  at ! " he cried hoarsely, and he
recoiled a step, staring at her blankly.

Madge's breath came in gasps.

It's true ! It's true ! " she cried, bringing
out her words now in a rush. ''I
found out her secret, and flashed it out on
her, on the night of the ball, in the picture
placed opposite the mirror in my boudoir ;
and  and  you know the rest."

And the confession made now, she sank,
trembling, into a chair which stood near,
covering her face with her hands.

Lance drew a step nearer. His face had
suddenly grown hard, white, rigid.

Will you be good enough to tell me
what that secret was, and how you found it
out ? " he asked, in a voice that matched his
face.

Madge drew her hands from her face,
looking up at him wonderingly. Alas this
Lance's voice, with a ring of iron in it, in
place of its usual mellow kindliness.

His set face repeated his question.

Then Madge, with trembling lips, and ina
tone so low that it sank at times to a
whisper, repeated the story which the
newspaper paragraph had told. Once or
twice she nearly broke down ; it was a
hard story to tell to the man standing
there facing her, with arms folded on his
chest, and white, set face.

Only once he interrupted her to ask the
question who had possession of the newspaper
now. But that one interruption
nearly brought her story to an abrupt
ending, and it was with many a halt and a
voice that threatened to fail her altogether,
that she resumed and told the finish
of that ill-fated night of the ball  Jane

Shore's visit to her room, and her farewell
threat.

Lance drew a deep breath as she finished
speaking, but said never a word.

She clasped her hands together, looking
up piteously into his face. ''Oh, Lance !"
she cried, " do not look at me like that 
speak to me, tell me you forgive me now
that I have told you the whole truth ! "

His face grew harder still. 'will your
telling me the whole truth raise her from
the dead and give her back to me ? " he
asked in harsh, cold tones. Then he turned
his back on her and went towards the door.

She sprang after him and laid one hand
on his arm. "Lance, Lance' she cried
passionately, " do not leave me like this !
We must not part in this way ! "

It was easy to read her sentence in his
eyes. They said plainly enough : " everything
is at an end between us ! All I ask of

you now is to keep out of my sight to the
last hour of my life ! "

Speak to me, speak to me," she implored,
*' one word, just one word of
kindness or pity ! "

* Kindness! Pity!" he repeated.

Madge's head drooped. " I know  I
know," she said, " what you would say, that
I had neither kindness nor pity for her.
But if you did but know what I have
suffered, what I do suffer "

Her voice gave way, though her eyes
were dry. She bowed her head on the hand
which clutched his arm.

*' You could not help forgiving me if
you only knew how I have been  how I
am punished," she went on, piteously.
She has kept her word ; she stood behind
me in the churchyard to-night ; she followed
me home and sat beside my bed ;
she came down the stairs with me."

She broke off for a moment, then suddenly
lifted her face to his once more.

Look in my face," she said, humbly,
pleadingly. '* You can see what I have
suffered ! "

His words came stern and wrathful
now.

*' You looked in her face and saw what
she had suffered ; but did that teach you
pity 1 " he asked, striving as he spoke to
release his arm from her clasp.

But there had come to her fingers a
strength twice their own, and their clasp
did not loose. There rose up in her mind
some faint sense of injustice. It seemed
as if her great love for him, as well as her
suffering, must be written on her face, and
plead for her.

You do not know  you do not understand,"
she faltered, then broke off.

The story of this great, passionate love

l" vol. III.

of hers would be even harder to tell than
had been the story of her mercilessness to
the woman who had threatened to frustrate
that love.

"After all these years," she began,
then broke off again.

All his reply was the endeavour once
more to unloosen her fingers.

She could bear it no longer.

Oh, Lance, Lance, it was for you, because
I loved you," she cried, passionately.

And then tears came to her at last, and
she bowed her head once more on his arm.

But it was to be neither rest nor hiding-place
for her now. He released himself
from her clasping, trembling hands. For
once he raised his voice.

** Then I would to  Heaven that you
had hated me, since your love has done
this for me," he said, hotly, turning away
from her towards the door once more.

She put herself between him and the
door.

Oh, Lance, Lance," she implored, '' don't
leave me thus ; only say you'll forgive me,
or, if you cannot do that, say you will try to
in the years to come  some day, some long
way off, perhaps."

Then she threw herself on her knees at
his feet, crying, brokenly :

Oh, Lance, Lance, kill me, punish me,
do anything cruel you please to me, but
only tell me you'll try to forgive me in the
years to come. We faust not part in this
way. In this life we may never set eyes
on each other again'*

He put her clasped hands stretched
upward to his face away, and passed on to
the door. He turned and gave her one
farewell look as she crouched on the floor
in her tumbled white draperies, her weeping
face hidden now in her hands.

c 2

*' I pray Heaven," he said in low
constrained tones that emphasized his
prayer, ** that in this life I may never set
eyes on your face again."

Madge crouched on that floor till daybreak,
hiding her face in her hands. Not
till the cold gray light of early dawn
began to find its way in through the
chinks of the shutters did she dare to
withdraw those hands, lest from out some
dark corner there should loom forth a
white face an(J shadowy form.

Her limbs were stiffened, her brain felt
dazed, and all power of weeping seemed
to have left her, when, at length, she made
her way back to her room. All power of
feeling seemed to have left her also. Had
Lance stood before her once more she
could not have raised the feeblest ]plea for

pity and forgiveness for the Madge Colin
who had sinned and suffered. The reaction
from the overstrain of passion was so complete
as to seem a positive lull of pain.
Over and over again she said to herself,
as she threw herself face downwards on her
pillows, " He prayed Heaven that he might
never see my face again," but the bitter
words touched no answering chord now.
An odd feeling of drowsiness was beo;inninor
to creep over her, and she seemed to feel,
think, see, and hear, as it were, through a
haze.

As the day grew, sounds of movement
about the house began. She heard Lance's
footsteps pass along the gallery outside her
room.

Dear footsteps," she said to herself,
softly ; * I should know them among a
thousand."

Then in a dim far-off sort of way she

heard his voice outside below her windows
giving some order, and presently the sound
of wheels and horses' feet told that his
dog-cart was being brought round. She
knew in the same dim far-off way that this
meant departure ; he was going av/ay  for
how long she knew not  and she lacked
power  and will, too, it seemed now  to
prevent him.

For one moment there came to her a
sudden wild longing to look her last at
him. To see him, as she had seen him so
many times before, strong, and beautiful in
his strength, driving those strong, beautiful
horses would be a sight to thank Heaven for.
She made one great effort, gathering together
all the strength that was left in her.
It was inadequate, however, to carry her to
the window. She succeeded in lifting
herself from the bed only to fall helplessly
into a chair, on whose high back she had

rested her hand for support. And seated
there with face turned towards the window,
through which the rosy light of morning
was now streaming, she heard the crack
of Lance's whip, the plunge of his horses,
and presently the sound of wheels dying in
the distance.

Then drowsiness like a thick cloud seemed
to enfold her once more, and thought
became a blank to her. And one coming
into that room and seeing her seated thus
facing the window with head thrown back,
and the bright morning sunshine falling on
her pale face, might have exclaimed : " One
could fancy that sleeping woman was dead !"
or another gazing down on her might have
said, " Hush, one could fancy that dead
woman was sleeping ! "

The hour which Madge had passed
crouching on the study floor, had been a
busy one for Lance. It was in a white heat

of passion that lie had shaken her touch from
his arm, and turned his back on her ; but it
was a white heat that had method and
purpose in it. As he had stood listening
to her confession, that purpose had formed.
The woman he had loved had been surrounded
with mystery from the first day he
had known her, and the cloud of a terrible
suspicion rested on her grave. To clear
that mystery, to lift that cloud, should
henceforth be the purpose of his life ; till
this was accomplished everything else in
creation would be as naught to him.

His heart was very bitter against Madge.
At that moment it was simply out of his
power to form any  even the most shadowy
conception of her great, passionate love
for him. He realised only that she had
failed in what seemed to him one of
woman's best qualities  pity for the forlorn
and desolate, and had, by an act of

unexampled cruelty, wrecked his whole
life for him. If she had been a man, he
said to himself, he would have known how
to deal with her ; as it was, her conscience
must punish her ; and so he dismissed her
from his thoughts.

He left the study with the intention
of making immediate preparations for a
journey to Corsica, where he purposed
fully investigating the attempt at murder
with which Madge had associated Miss
Shore. Before he started, however, he
would see and explain matters to Sir Peter ;
also, he would put a few questions to Mr.
Stubbs and demand of him the newspaper
containing the paragraph from which Madge
had drawn inspiration for her picture.
Both interviews, he judged, must w-ait till
a later hour. Meantime, he roused his
servant, gave sundry directions as to his
packing, and transmitted orders to the

stable for his cart to be brought round intime
for him to save the first train from
Lower Upton.

On his way back from the servants'
quarters he had occasion to pass a small
room where Mado;e was accustomed to
write her letters, and where had been
placed a small davenport for her sole use.
A light shining under the door of this
room attracted his attention ; it seemed
to be extinguished at the approach of his
footsteps. A suspicion of burglars for one
moment flashed across his mind, and heat
once opened the door, to find, not
burglars, but Mr. Stubbs immediately
behind it. This was the same room in
which Madge had, upon one occasion, discovered
the self-same individual in a listening
posture.

Lance stared at the man uncompromisingly
; he looked disturbed and flurried.

What, in the name of fortune, are you
doing here at this hour ? " cried the young
man ; and now, for the first time, it occurred
to him that, possibly, this man,
whom he had been wont to describe as "a
harmless old fellow, who did what he was
told, and never got into anybody's way,"
was not quite what he had imagined bim
to be.

"I was just on the point of going to
bed, sir ; IVe had a heavy night's work 
I've been eying through some of Mrs.
Cohen's papers," here he glanced at the
davenport, '' at her request, sir."

Lance still stared hard at the man. He
did not see written on his face the fact
that Madge's sudden illness had filled
him with consternation, and had sent him
listening about the house in the dead of
night ; that, from what he had heard, he
had drawn the inevitable conclusion that

women were undeniable allies, and that
it was high time he looked to himself, and
made provision for the future. All Lance
saw in the low brow and narrowing eyes
which fronted him was a look of mingled
cunning and servility, that filled him with
an unutterable contempt, not alone for this
miserable specimen of humanity, but also
for the woman who could stoop to such a
confederate.

*' I believe," he said, keeping his eyes
fixed contemptuously on the evidently
disconcerted Mr. Stubbs, " that Mrs. Cohen
has employed you in more than one confidential
capacity ? "

Mr. Stubbs plucked up courage.

I am proud to say, sir, I have enjoyed
Mrs. Cohen's entire confidence, of late,"
he replied.

Very well, then, be so good as to
fetch me a newspaper which on one occasion

you took the trouble to lay before
Mrs. Cohen  it contains the account of an
attempt at murder at Santa Maura."

Mr. Stubbs's face turned to an ashy
whiteness. So, then, his conjectures had
been correct. Madge had snapped the
alliance between them by making full
confession of the part she had played.
The question was now, how far she had
betrayed his complicity in the matter ?

Did you hear what I said ? " asked
Lance, his face taking an expression which
seemed to Mr. Stubbs a remarkably unpleasant
one.

*' It's here, sir ; here, sir," he said, going
to the davenport and taking thence a
newspaper, which Lance at once took
possession of, *mrs. Cohen has kept it
here ever since 1 gave it to her. And,
sir, will you be so good as to remember
that in this matter, from first to last, I

have acted entirely under Mrs. Cohen's
orders ? "

I congratulate you on the fidelity with
which you have carried them out. May I
ask your motive for placing a paragraph
of this sort in Mrs. Cohen's hands, instead
of in Sir Peter's or mine ? "

''I knew Mrs. Cohen's anxiety on the
matter, sir ; we have been on a very confidential
footing, as I've already told you,
sir, for some time past. Mrs. Cohen's
orders where imperative  I did my best,
sir, to carry them out."

Lance, with his wrath against Madge
still at white heat, began to see a sufficient
reason for the appointment of this
.wretched being to the lucrative post of
land-steward at Pedestal.

What Mr. Stubbs considered an unpleasant
expression of countenance deepened
on his face.

I have only this to say," he said, contemptuously,
as he folded the newspaper
and put it in his pocket, '* I shall advise
Sir Peter to send you about your business
as quickly as possible, and you may thank
your stars that you are an old man, instead
of a young one, otherwise I should
send you out of the house a little quicker
than Sir Peter could." Then he turned
on his heel and left the man to his own
reflections.

Five o'clock was striking as Lance went
along the gallery towards his own room.
With the last stroke of the clock. Sir
Peter's door opened and Sir Peter, fully
dressed, came out.

"What, you there, Lance?" he cried.
"Now, isn't it a good thing I can wake
myself at any hour I choose ? If I had
depended upon Simmonds I ' should be
sound asleep still, and there's that church

bell aid a hundred other things to see to
before breakfast "

Lance laid his hand on the old gentleman's
shoulder.

*' Come into my room for a few minutes,
Uncle Peter, I've something to say to
you," he said.

"Eh?" said Sir Peter, blithely, "no
doubt you have, my boy ! I dare say, like
me, you've a good many things on your
mind just now  not to be wondered at ina
bridegroom elect."

He, a bridegroom elect ! From his
haggard look and disordered appearance
it would have been easier to believe that
he had been making preparations for his
funeral than for his wedding.

Lance lost no time in preamble.

"There'll be no wedding to-day, nor
any other day, so far as I am concerned,"
he said, as he shut the door behind Sir

VOL. TII. D

Peter ; '' I am going away, at once, to
Corsica."

At once ! to Corsica ! " repeated Sir
Peter, utterly unable to credit his senses.
'' Yes, I shall start in about half an
hour's time. I have something to do
there  read this "  here he handed the
newspaper to Sir Peter  " I have just
heard, for the first time, that Miss Shore
is supposed to be the person who made
the attempt at murder there related. I shall
make it my business to prove the supposition
false."

But Sir Peter s senses were still beclouded.
Miss Shore  attempt at murder  I don't
understand," he repeated, blankly.

Lance grew impatient. " If you'll read
that paragraph, you will understand  Fve
no time to go into details ; I tell you,
simply, I'm off to Corsica at once, to do

my utmost to clear the reputation of a
young lady who was once a guest in this
house."

Sir Peter, recollecting a certain half-hour
he had spent with Lance at Liverpool,
began to understand. " But, my dear boy,
what will Madge say "

Madge has said all she has to say on
the matter  to me' interrupted Lance,
sharply ; " and I may as well tell you at
once that everything is at an end between
Madge and me."

'' No, no, no ! my dear boy," cried Sir
Peter, " no, no, not possible ! You don't
mean to say  you can't  that there's to
be no wedding this morning ? "

Lance crossed the room and stood in
front of Sir Peter.

"Uncle Peter," he said, "look in my
face and see that I mean every word I

D 2

say ; I would put a bullet through my brain
sooner than marry Madge Cohen."

But Uncle Peter could not look steadily
in the young man's face, his eyes were
beginning to blink very hard, and for the
moment he dared not trust his voice.

There came a rap at the door, and a
servant announced that the cart was brought
round.

Lance hailed thankfully an excuse for
cutting his farewell short. " 111 write to
you from Dover," he said ; "I shall most
likely have an hour or two to wait there.
Shake hands, Uncle Peter, there's nothing
for you to break your heart over." This
was added a little bitterly, with emphasis
on the pronoun.

Uncle Peter held out his hand ; once,,
twice he cleared his throat very loudly, but
still words would not come.

Lance's hard, even voice was a curious
contrast to the old gentleman's want of
self-control. "I would suggest that you
should take the blame of the broken
engagement on yourself," said the young
man ; "it will be easy for you to say
that you did not consider that I, in my
changed position, was a suitable match
for Madge, with her wealth  it might
save any feeling of wounded pride on her
part."

There was a touch of sarcasm in his
voice as he said the last words. But, for
all that, there was no doubt that he meant
them. He might, in his wrath, have prayed
for the right to kill her, as she stood
confessing the deed she had done ; he would
never have prayed for the right to confer
an insult on her.

The words "In my changed position"

brought back Sir Peter's voice, though buta
quaking, tremulous voice.

"Lance," he said, huskily, holding the
young man's hand in a tight grip, "whereever
you go, whatever you do, don't forget
what I said to you a little while ago, that
if you do not take the place of my eldest
son now, you take that of my youngest
and best-loved  best-loved, do you hear,
Lance ? "

*' Thank you, Uncle Peter. At present the
future is a blank to me ; but I shall always
be glad to remember your farewell words."

And, Lance," the old gentleman went
on, still holding Lance's hand in his, " you'll
draw your supplies as usual ; you won't
let this  this make any difference ? "

Lance's reply was short and all but
inaudible.

Then he wrenched his hand away and
was gone.

And Sir Peter, after gazing blankly at
the closed door for a moment or two, sat
down and cried like a child over his broken
toys.

That was to be a day of departures. Sir
Peter had scarcely time to dry this eyes
and reflect on what a harassing day's work
be would have to get through, before Mr. .
Stubbs, equipped for travelling, presented
himself.

If Sir Peter had not been so occupied
with his own depressing subjects of thought
he would have noticed the anxious look
on the man's face, the nervous twitching
of the corners of his mouth.

** I've come to say good-bye. Sir Peter.
I suppose I had better start at once," he
said, looking this way, that ways all ways ;
but never once at Sir Peter.

'eh I what! You going, too, Stubbs ? "
ejaculated Sir Peter, trying all in a moment
to collect this thoughts and arrange some
settled plan for meeting the day's difficulties.

The warmth of Sir Peter's greeting reassured
Mr. Stubbs. Things had happened
then as he had surmised they might  Mr.
Clive had been so occupied with his own
affairs that he had forgotten to give Sir
Peter the warning he had threatened
respecting the rascality of the man he
employed to open his letters.

I think the sooner I start the better,
if you're no objection, Sir Peter," he
replied. " You see, I enter upon my
duties at Pedestal, in ten days' time.
You were good enough to tell me I might
take a ten days' holiday before I got to
work there "

Yes, yes ; I remember, my good friend.
Take a holiday, and welcome ; but "

Here he broke off, and began what,
compared with his usual quick tramp backwards
and forwards, was a veritable funeral
march from end to end of the room.

'' I will make it my business, before anything
else," Mr. Stubbs went on, *' to
inquire fully into the antecedents of the
gentleman who has been recommended as
my successor here, and, meantime, there is
the lad the Vicar spoke of."

Yes, yes, I know ; but I was thinking
whether I could do without you to-day.
Fve a very great deal to see to and
arrange."

Sir Peter paused abruptly in his walk.
Now, how far should he take Mr. Stubbs
into his confidence on this very delicate
matter ?

''Do you refer to the wedding arrangements
? " asked Mr. Stubbs, scanning furtively
Sir Peter's anxious features.

"No, no. I fear  a  hem  I greatly
fear, Stubbs, the wedding will have to be
put off  for a time, that is."

Put off, sir ! " This was said with a
great show of surprise. " May I ask if
anything unforeseen has occurred ? "

Sir Peter thought for a moment. The
only way he could see out of his difficulties
that day was by the juvenile course of
fibbing. He must fib prodigiously all day
long, he said to himself, so he might as well
begin at once.

No, no ; nothing unforeseen has happened.
Tm sorry to say I've noticed for
some time past, that Mrs. Cohen's health
has been failing, and by my express advice
my advice, do you see, Mr. Stubbs ?  the
wedding will be deferred till she pulls
round a little."

I see, Sir Peter. And Mr. Clive has
started off, I suppose, for Carstairs, to get

further medical advice ? " asked Mr. Stubbs,
still furtively regarding Sir Peter.

"Exactly, exactly," ejaculated Sir Peter.
Splendid idea, that," he thought to himself,
'' I'll enlarge upon it." '' At least," he
went on, *' I advised that course ; but
Mr. Clive said : ' No, there's not a man in
Carstairs I'd trust in a case like this ; I
shall go straight to London and consulta
man there who makes fainting fits a
speciality'"

And then the old gentleman sighed and
thought to himself:

Dear me, I wonder if I shall forget
all that, and say something quite different
before the day's out ! "

Mr. Stubbs was all sympathy.

"I fear it will be a harassing time for
you. Sir Peter; I would willingly stay on
a day or two longer, but I've some pressing
private affairs of my own "

Ah yes, that boy of yours ; I remember
you told me all about him, and I promised
you a cheque, didn't I, in addition to your

pay?"

'' I should be very grateful for it, Sir
Peter ; I'm outfitting him now for the
Colonies, and, as I told you, I should like
to give him a little capital to start with.'

Ah, yes ; I remember. Come into the
study a minute, you shall have your cheque
at once ; and don't forget, if any one asks
you about the wedding being put off, it's
all my doing, on account of Mrs. Cohen's
health, and Mr. Clive has gone to Carstairs
no, to London, I mean, to consult a
leading doctor about her."

So Mr. Stubbs departed with a handsome
cheque in addition to his handsome
quarterly salary. And if any one had
taken the trouble to watch his movements
on his arrival at Carstairs, they might have

seen that, instead of taking a ticket direct
for London as he had told Sir Peter he
intended to do, he made Liverpool his
destination.

Sir Peter's fibs grew in number and
variety as the day went od. Lady Judith
unintentionally gave an impetus to them.

About seven o'clock she rustled downstairs
in an extra allowance of skirt and
floating lace lappets, expecting to find
arrangements for the wedding in a satisfactory
state of progress. The hints which
her maid had let fall during the process of
dressing as to a troubled condition of the
household atmosphere, had been uttered so
timorously that they had not arrested her
attention.

Sir Peter met her at the foot of the
stairs, feeling that the sooner she was put
into possession of the leading facts of the
matter the better.

''Madge is not down  she is no better,"
he shouted into her ears. " Wedding
must be put off  I've sent for the Vicar."

Lady Judith was all startled attention ina
moment.

"This comes of doing things in a
hurry " she began.

Sir Peter knew that a sermon would
follow on this text, but did not feel in the
mood to personate an audience.

'' Lance has gone to London to consult
doctors  bring back one with him' he
shouted again.

'glance gone  where? Bring back
whom ? " questioned the lady, only catching
half his sentence.

Stubbs has gone off, too  to London,"
Sir Peter went on, anxious to put her in
possession of all the facts necessary for
her to know in as short a space of time as
possible.

What, Stubbs and Lance are gone off
together ? ''

No, not together, one after the other."

"What, Lance has gone off after Stubbs !
Another protege has disappeared ! They
do you credit, Sir Peter, I must say, these
proteges of yours ! First one, then another 
They make themselves at home in the
house, and get all they can out of you,
and then they disappear and commit
suicide, or do something; else disgraceful.
And as for Lance going in pursuit of the
man, I do think "

"No, no, no," shouted Sir Peter, "Stubbs
is right enough  Lance  too." Then he
tip-toed, and with a stentorian voice, added
" Gone  after  doctors."

And it was not until Lady Judith had
commenced an oration on the folly of two
men starting in quest of one doctor 
before which he beat a hasty retreat 

that he realised the fact that his story had
already slightly deviated from its original
form.

But later on in the day when he began
seriously to consider the state of affairs,
the reality of the estrangement between
Lance and Madge, and the difficulties which
might lie in the way of putting things once
more on an amicable footing between them,
it occurred to him that an even greater
modification of his original statement was
necessary.

The Vicar, who was to have performed
the wedding ceremony, was looked upon
as the fountain-head of gossip in the
neighbourhood ; to him, therefore, it would
be necessary to tell a story which the
county would be expected to credit, as a
true statement of affairs.

So when the worthy clergyman, in
response to a hurried note from Sir Peter,

VOL. III. B

presented himself at the Castle, the story
to which he was asked to give credence
was that Sir Peter had taken advantage of
the weak state of Mrs. Cohen's health to
defer a marriage, which, since the change
in Mr. Clive's position, was scarcely so
desirable a match for her as it had at one
time seemed.

Heaven help me ! " sighed the old
gentleman, buttoning up his coat and going
for a weary little trot by himself in the Park.
How I'm to remember all these different
stories and stick to the right one to the
right person, is more than I know ! "

Before, however, that day came to an
end, Sir Peter had ceased to trouble about
the number and variety of his fibs, in fact,
had no heart left in him for fibs of any sort.

About noon a message was brought to
him from Madge that she wished to see
him at once and alone. Sir Peter went upto

her room to find her seated in the same
high-backed chair into which she had fallen
in her endeavour to get a last glimpse of
Lance. There her maid had found her on
resuming her attendance at seven o'clock
in the morning, and seated thus she had
endured a disturbing quarter of an hour of
Lady Judith's society. Neither the maid
nor Lady Judith, however, had read in
Madge's face the story of her utterly broken
physical health ; to both she had protested
a little feebly, it might be, that she felt
better and would be quite herself before
the day was. over. Sir Peter was not a
sharp-sighted man, and as a rule nothing
was easier than to persuade him into taking
an optimistic view of the gloomiest situation.
On this occasion, however, his first look into
Madge's face put all optimistic views to
flight, and sent him to her side with a pained,
startled cry on his lips :

E 2

My child, my child, what is it  what
has pulled you down in this way ? "

Madge was still in the long, white gown
she had worn overnight. Her hair strayed
in loose disorder about her white face.
Her head leaned wearily on one hand, the
other rested on the arm of the chair.

Hasn't Broughton been to see you,
my child ? He must be sent for at
once ! " pursued Sir Peter, making for the
bell there and then to give orders for the
immediate attendance of the doctor.

Madge's voice arrested him ; it sounded
weak, and far away  so far away, indeed,
that he could almost have fancied that she
was speaking to him from the other side of
a wall.

Not now, not yet. Will you sit down
a moment ? I have something to say to
you  to confess to you,"- she added,
correcting.

I know all, my child ; Lance has told
me," said Sir Peter, hurriedly, thinking that
he knew to what she referred.

Then as he looked down into her haoo:ard
face with something written on it which
he had never seen there before, he uttered
his first and only reproach against Lance.

'' Why is not Lance here ? " he cried.
It's disgraceful that with you in this
state he should start off on a wild fancy of
his own ! "

Madoe sho-hed. " Lance was rioht to
go ; if he had not gone I must "

She broke-off for a moment. Then she
took Sir Peter's hand in hers. " Will you
sit down and listen to me ? " she said,
faintly. " It isn't the story I told Lance 
it won't take long to tell."

Sir Peter, with a scared look on his face,
sat down. And Madge, in a voice scarcely
above a whisper, and in a monotone like

that of a child repeating a weary lesson,
told the story of how she had tampered
with the old gentleman's correspondence,
and had kept back the tidings of Gervase
Critchett's only boy.

Straightforwardly and simply she told
the tale. On Mr. Stubbs's share in the
matter she touched but lightly  she had
no wish to claim palliation for her offence
by magnifying his share in it.

He would have done anything I told
him to do for money," she said, simply, in
reply to Sir Peter's astonished exclamation,
'stubbs did that!"

Her last word left her without voice
wherein to plead for forgiveness. And Sir
Peter had no voice wherewith to utter it ;
but all the same she knew that it lay in his
heart for her. And he knew that she knew
it was there without any telling on his
part.

The other half of a great love is a great
humility. Great love knows nothing of
self-seeking, self-justification, nor of that
miserable plea which little love is so apt
to set up, " half my transgression must lie
at your door."

Madge's love for Lance, measured by her
humility, must have been great indeed.
No word of self-justification, from first to
last, ever escaped her lips. Not once did
she set up, as she very well might have
done, the plea, *' I did it for Lance." In
good truth she felt she had done so badly
for the man she loved, that the less she
said about it the better. Even what she

had purposed lie had failed to perform,
either through too little courage, or too
much conscience. She had put out her
hand, as it were, to stop the wheels of fate,
with this only result  that her fingers
had been crushed in her weak endeavour.
For a day or two she kept her room,
dispensing, however, with the doctor's attendance
and seeing not a soul but her
maid. AVhen she once more joined the
family circle she looked literally the ghost
of her old bright self. She had never
learned the art of the economy of the
emotions, and sooner or later her sensitive,
passionate nature seemed bound to wear
out the slight frame that held it. Sir
Peter stood looking at her aghast as she
sat under multitudinous wraps shivering
beside a huge fire. Her voice, too, as she
answered his greeting, thrilled him as the
touch of a dead hand might ; it was cold,

tuneless, far-away, the sort of voice that
one lying at the gates of death, and only
saved by a miracle from passing through
them, might be supposed to bring back to
life with him.

Sir Peter fussed a good deal over her
that day, suggested all sorts of plans for
bringing back the roses to her cheeks, ran
over a list of German 'Bads and Swiss
Spas as desirable places for her to winter
in. Madge listened to him quietly.

I have made up my mind where to go,"
she answered, *' it will be to Seville  I
hope to get away next week."

Sir Peter was all astonishment ; his
questions came in a string.

Madge put them on one side, unanswered.
It would have been difficult to make him
see, in the fact of there being at Seville a
convent ruled by an Abbess with whom
Madge had some slight acquaintance, a

sufficient reason for her choice of that
city as a place of abode. Yet such was
the case. In that convent Madge saw a
refuge from the terrors of her conscience
which conjured out of every dark corner
the face or the form of the woman she
believed she had driven to her death.
Atonement for this was denied her ; but
penance still lay in her power, and penance
she eagerly grasped at, even though it
might involve the necessity for the abandonment
of the faith of her childhood.

This Spanish convent was one of the
strictest of its order, and Madge knew well
enough what rigorous discipline would be
included in a life of penitence within its
walls. But what matter, if it did hurry
her a little faster out of the world than
she felt herself going already ? Her purpose
was fixed, never again in this life to
meet the look of Lance's wrathful eyes.

The greatest kindness she could confer on
him, and on all her friends, now, it seemed
to her, would be, without any fuss of leave-taking,
to creep quietly out of life. And
if, as she made her way towards the dark
valley, she could lose the sense of that
pursuing shape which filled her days with
terror and rendered her nights so many
waking nightmares, she would feel that
Heaven had bestowed a blessing upon her
such as she had no right to demand.

Madge did something else besides expedite
her departure for Spain  sent fora
lawyer from Carstairs, and gave to him
full instructions for the making of a will
which assigned to Lance the whole of the
property she had a right to leave away
from the Cohen family.

Sir Peter had to be let into the secret
of this will, in order that his consent to
act as executor to it might be obtained.

He fussed a good deal over the affair ;
there seemed a gloom and a mystery about
Madge's doings just then, which acted like
a douche of cold water on the bright little
fire of hojDc, that he was perpetually
trying to stir into a flame. It was not
easy for him to discard his lifelong habit
of looking at the cheerful side of things ; at
the same time, he was bound to admit
that there seemed little enough just then,
upon which to build his cheerfulness.

Wet, wintry weather set in, and the old
gentleman felt that little by little his
cheerfulness was, as it were, slipping through
his fingers.

If I could but smoke, it would be something
to do," he sighed, looking out drearily
from successive windows at the dismal
landscape of mountains, half-hidden in mist,
leaden sky pouring down rain' in sheets,
woods already half-stripped of their foliage.

He furtively repeated his juvenile efforts

to master the mysteries of tobacco ; was
compelled to abandon them for reasons
which had obtained in his youthful days ;
and was driven to find other outlets for
his energies.

He went about the house ordering big
fires to be made wherever there chanced
to be a vacant fireplace ; sent for a man
from Carstairs, and another from Edinburgh,
to supply him with plans for increasing
the heating apparatus of the
corridors and larger rooms. Lady Judith,
debarred from her outdoor pastoral amusements,
added not a little to this discomfiture
by generally superintending his occupations.
She complained loudly of the extra
warmth he was putting into the bouse,
armed herself with a huge fire-screen in
lieu of a fan, and informed everybody on
every possible opportunity that she
"suffered so from the heat."

The letter received from Lance, written

in a railway-carriage on his way to
Marseilles, did not mend matters. Madge's
name was not so much as mentioned in it ;
in fact, it seemed written for the whole
and sole purpose of saying that he had
forgotten to say what a rascal Stubbs was,
and that he hoped Sir Peter would get rid
of him as soon as possible ; the man he
was certain had been playing a double
game, and he would "stake his life" 
these were Lance's words  " that there
was no foundation in fact for the evil
suspicion he had chosen to fasten upon a
young lady who was an utter stranger
to him."

Lance in this letter said not a word as
to his plans, so Sir Peter naturally concluded
that they remained unaltered. A
second letter, however, which arrived two
days after  when they imagined him to be
tossing about on the Mediterranean 

showed that these plans had been completely
reversed. It was a hasty line,
written in pencil, during the railway
journey back from Marseilles. In it Lance
explained the reason for this return journey.
The conviction of Stubbs's rascality had been
gradually gaining ground in his mind, he
said, and now had taken such hold of
him, that, before setting off for Corsica,
he thought it wiser to run over to Liverpool
and thoroughly test the man's statements
as to what had taken place there.

He would himself see and question the
local authorities, whose names Stubbs had
used so freely ; and he could now only
wonder over his own and Sir Peter's simplicity
in not having adopted such a course
before.

It was possible that Stubbs's elaborate
accounts of his interview with the
municipal and cemetery authorities at

Liverpool might be equally unworthy of belief
; no one had been at pains to verify them.

As for the empty purse, the envelope
with the name, Jane Shore, upon it, and
the handkerchief, any one might produce
the two first and assign them to any one
he pleased ; and the last, the handkerchief,
could be easily obtainable by a man who
would hunt through waste-paper baskets,
and listen at keyhole.

If in any way, he added, he found his
suspicions of Stubbs verified, he would at
once place the matter in the hands of the
police. He supposed Sir Peter would have
no objection to his doing this. In conclusion,
he ojave an address to which letters mioht
be sent, and begged Sir Peter to consider
his communication as strictly confidential,
for," he added, '' if the rascal gets an
idea that he is suspected, no doubt he will
be off at once."

Sir Peter felt this head go round. The
man he had trusted with his private correspondence,
his cash-book, his cheque-book,
to turn out a rascal ! In his heart,
the old gentleman did not object to a spice
of roguery in his proteges  it added, so to
speak, a piquancy to the exercise of his benevolence.
This that Lance charged Stubbs
with, however, was downright villainy, which,
instead of adding piquancy to his benevolence,
took the flavour out of it altogether.

It seemed past belief, yet it was not easy
to shake off the impression which Lance's
strongly-expressed opinions had made upon
him. It was altogether bewildering. The
worst part was having to keep the whole
thing a secret. He would do his best ; but
still, if it should ooze out that his faith in
his late secretary had had a severe shock 
well, he dared say no very great harm
would be done after all.

VOL. III. r

He could not resist the temptation of
hinting to Madge that possibly it might be
as well to reconsider the appointment of
Stubbs to the land-stewardship at Pedestal.


Madge turned away wearily from the
subject.

The lawyers will see after that," she
said. " Let him 20. I don't want even
to think of him."

lu food truth to her-with the thoughts
lie had in her heart at that moment 
Stubbs and his rascality seemed to be of
colossal insignificance.

It may reasonably be doubted whether
Sir Peter's power of keeping a secret would
have stood the strain put upon it had not a
second letter arrived which, for the moment,
threw Lance's communication into the shade.

It was received two days before the dny
which Madge had fixed for her departure

to the South. She had spent the morning
with Sir Peter at his writing-table, going
through various matters connected with

o

her Durham property, in the management
of which Sir Peter had promised to be her
representative during her absence.

'' Of course, my dear, I'll do my best in
your affairs," he said, ' but my hands, as
you know, are very full just now ! "

They were literally very full at the
moment with the unopened letters which
the morning's post had brought him.

To emphasize his statement, he. began
breaking seals and opening envelopes very
fast, keeping up a light flow of talk as he
did so.

Better open this first," he soliloquised,
fingering a black-edged envelope ; " daresay
it's from a widow with six or seven
children, whom she wants to place out in
life or get into schools."

F 2

Madge, looking down on the envelope
which he threw on the table, recognised
the handwriting of the Eev. Joshua Parker.

"Eh! What's this?" cried Sir Peter,
dropping his letter and turning a startled,
white face towards Madge. " Head it, my
dear, read it  I don't seem able to take
it in."

Madge picked up the letter and read
a few short lines from the Eev. Joshua
Parker, enclosing, with many regrets, a
letter which the Australian mail had just
brought to him. It was from the Wesleyan
minister who had succeeded him in
his charge at Rutland Bay, and after a
brief preamble on the duty of resignation
to the will of Heaven, told the sad news
of the death of Gervase Critchett, of
colonial fever, within a month of the
departure of the Eev. Joshua Parker
from the colony. Full details, the writer
stated, would be sent 1)y the next mail.

Sir Peter rubbed his forehead. *' I'm
all in a maze," he said ; " I get a nephew
one mail, I lose him the next ! I can't
realise it, eh, Madge."

Madoe said nothings. She realised it
sharply enough, and with it realised something
else also, that all her careful thought
for Lance, her plotting and subterfuges
had been after all but so much winnowing
of the wind and ploughing of the ocean.

*' I've told you all I can remember of the
clear boy  you shall see auy subsequent
accounts that may come to me from Rutland
Bay detailing his illness," said the
Rev. Joshua Parker, addressing Sir Peter.
*' He was always fragile and delicate  that
picture, though a little roughly done, is as
like him as could be."

The Rev. Joshua Parker had followed
his letter to the Castle within twenty-four
hours, and now sat narrating to Sir Peter
the story of Gervase Critchett's brief life.

The minister's tall, thin figure presented
a striking contrast to Sir Peter's short,
stout one. He had large features and

solemn gray eyes. There was one point of
resemblance between the two men  a bald
patch on the top of the head in the region
of the organ of benevolence, which suggested
the idea that the excessive use of that organ
had destroyed the roots of the hair.

Sir Peter took up the roughly-executed
photograph once more. It was that of a
boy of a Greek type of beauty, with large,
dreamy eyes, and an abundance of curly
hair.

Poor Gervase I " he sighed. " The
image of his father ! He would have
brought back my young days to me I ''
And then he sighed aoain.

The minister sighed too. "It is a
mysterious dispensation of Providence ; a
grievous blow to you. Sir Peter, no doubt,
and to me also. AVhen I passed this way
a month ago and looked up at your Castle,
high among the Fells, I said to myself, * I

shall soon be bringing glad tidings to the

master of that house ; ' and lo, instead "

he broke off abruptly. There could be no
doubt as to the strength of the bond which
had existed between him and the orphan
boy.

You passed this way a month ago ? "
queried Sir Peter, feeling the necessity of a
brief respite from the sad subject. Then,
as the recollection of Madge's pitiful confession
of a second abstracted letter crossed
his mind, he added, hurriedly: *'Ah, yes!
yes, I remember ; it must have been just
about the time of my birthday festivities."

*' It was just after, Sir Peter. I arrived
at Liverpool, on my way to Upton, on the
morning of the twenty-second. I remember,
during the ensuing week, reading an account
of your birthday festivities in a Cumberland
paper."

"Ah, you should have been here and

taken part in them ; we kept things going
merrily for nearly a week."

I should have been 'at Upton during

J. o

that week had not my plans been entirely
changed by an extraordinary occurrence."


Kn extraordinary occurrence ! " repeated
Sir Peter, all eager curiosity in a moment.

But instead of attempting to satisfy that
curiosity, Mr. Parker leaned forward in his
chair, fixed his solemn eyes full upon Sir
Peter, and said, sententiously :

'' Once I was a gardener's boy ! "

Sir Peter jumped to his feet with a
spring, and laid his hand on the minister's
shoulder. "Ah," he said, delightedly,
'' and some benevolent person rescued you
from that position, educated you, and sent
you forth to teach and to preach ? "

Mr. Parker shook his head. *' Not a bit
of it, I have only myself to thank for the

choice of a calling with which I am
thoroughly in harmony."

Sir Peter walked away to the window.

Mr. Parker's next words brought him
back at a run. They were :

Have you ever studied the theory of
transplanting, Sir Peter ? "

Transplanting, transplanting ! " repeated
Sir Peter. '' That's one of the
many things I have not yet, through
pressure of occupation, been able to give
a thought to."

As he said this, it flashed into the old
gentleman's mind that the *' theory of
transplanting," as propounded by the
Eev. Joshua Parker, might be a thoroughly
congenial one ; and instantly there rose
up before him a vision of backgrounds of
shrubs, and foregrounds of flowers, removed
from one corner of the Castle grounds to
another, and if they didn't do there, to
somewhere else.

** People frequently," the minister continued,
" can out the principles of an art
without minor much thought to them. I
in my young days not only carried out the
principles of the art of transplanting, but
thought about them and built a theory on
them."

*' Ah, an ingenious, thoughtful lad ! " said
Sir Peter, thinking what a 2ro6V/( this
gardener's boy would have made.

One of the wisest of our statesmen
made a noteworthy remark about the uselessness
of * matter in its wrong place.' I
never saw a. shrub or flower that needed
sunshine j)iiiiig in the shade, or vice versa,
without thinking of it. The thing that in
its right place would have been a joy and a
beauty, and so have played the part it was
meant to play in the scheme of creation,
was, in its wrong pkxce, simply so much
inert, useless matter."

All," murmured Sir Peter, " I'll get you

to make the round of my flower-garden
while you're here. You might make a few
suggestions."

The minister went on.

** After a time my eye, trained to detect
matter in its wrong place, wandered from
plants to the men and women about me.
As with the plants, so I found it with my
fellow-creatures ; and I came to the conclusion
that half the sins and the miseries
the human race arose from the fact
of people being planted amid unsuitable
surroundings."

And you tried your hand at transplanting
men and women," cried Sir Peter,
excitedly, now thoroughly convinced that
the subject was a congenial one.

I did my best, Sir Peter, but that was
little enough. My eye, trained to detect
want of harmony between person and place,
suggested more work than my feeble hands

could accomplish. In fact, to have accomplished
one quarter of it, I must have played
the part of Providence to the community
generally."

*' And a very good part to play, too, my
dear sir," said Sir Peter, sympathetically.

But so much beyond my capabilities,"
replied the minister, " that, after I adopted
my sacred calling, I was almost driven to
regret the power my eye had acquired of
detecting matter in its wrong place. I was
perpetually tormented with a desire to set
things straight." Sir Peter's face here
became aglow. '' There where peers of the
realm I should like to have transplanted
from their grand houses to costermongers'
cellars, and there were hewers of wood and
drawers of water whom I would have made
peers of the realm. It was this sense of
the fitness of things that made me say, so
soon as I set eyes on Gervase Critchett:

That boy is out of place among working
men And on the very evening that I was
starting for Upton  what's the matter, my
dear sir ; do you suffer from cramp ? "

A trifle now and then," said Sir Peter,
giving one or two vigorous stamps ; " I've
been sitting still a good bit this morning 
ever since I've been listening to you. How-would
it be to take a turn outside on the
terrace ? The wind has lulled a bit. After
all, it's only a sou wester."

Only a sour-wester ! But that sour-wester
had done its work well during the night,
as the stripped trees and battered flowerbeds
in the garden testified. The damaged
sea-wall also below St. Cuthbert's church
had a tale to tell, of the combined fury
of wind and wave, and the fishing-boats,
drawn up high on the beach, showed that
the weather-wise fishermen knew well enough
that that fury was as yet but half spent.

Just now, lloYever, as Sir Peter had
said, the sour-wester was taking a rest, and
the terrace, under a fitful noon-day sun,
looked a fairly-tempting promenade.

Mr. Parker made a brief exclamation as
to the wind-swept clearness and beauty of
the surrounding landscape.

*' You were saying an unusual occurrence
took place at Liverpool," said Sir Peter,
eager as a child to get the finish of what
promised to be an interesting story.,

"Ah, 3'es ! I was saying that just as I
had detected the want of harmony between
Gervase Critchett and his surroundings, so
did I, on the night of my arrival at Liverpool,
detect the incongruity of another
person this time a young woman  with
her surroundings."

Ah, a young woman ! "

"I had been spending the evening with
a brother minister, and, as 1 was going back

rather late to my hotel, I met a policeman
with a young woman in his charge. Now
there are some people who look in their
ri(yht place on their road to a police-station
in charge of the police, and one is delighted
to leave them to the surroundings that so
admirably become them. But a single glance
at this young woman's face showed me that
whatever might be her right place, assuredly
it was not within the walls of a prison."
*' Ah ! Good-looking girl, eh ? "
It was not her good looks, but the utter
forlornness and hopelessness of her expression
that at first attracted me. I caught sio-ht of
her face beneath a gas-lamp  it was haggard,
death-like in its pallor ; a quantity of jet-black
hair hung about it. She was dressed
entirely in long, limp, gray garments. I
could have fancied some poor soul bidden
against its will to come forth from the
tomb, looking much as she looked."

Sir Peter stopped abruptly in his walk.

"Forlorn-looking, pallid, with jet-black
hair," he repeated thoughtfully. " Dressed
all in gray too, and on the night after my
birthday!"

All Lance's ugly suspicions of Stubbs's
double dealing at Liverpool seemed suddenly
to have substance given to them.

On some one else's ear beside Sir Peter's
the minister's narrative had fallen with
startling effect. Madge, wrapped in her
furs, was standing in the parapet-balcony
where once Miss Shore had knelt, addressing
her piteous prayer for mercy to the
star-lit heavens. Preparations for the
journey to Spain were now complete, and
on that very afternoon, Madge, accompanied
only by her maid, intended to set
forth. She was standing now in that
balcony cf painful memories, looking her
farewell to the beautiful landscape tricked

VOL. III. G

by the fitful sunshine into a transient
semblance of a summer smile.

'* Good-bye, you clear lanes, where Lance
and I have had so many canters together !
Good-bye, dear stream, where we used to
fish and boat through the summer mornings
! Good-bye, dear woods ; good-bye,
dear hills," she was saying to herself.

Spain, it is true, might own to landscapes
far more magnificent than this ; but only
between the bars of a convent window
would she catch glimpses of them, and 
this it was that would take the colour and
glory out of them all  there would be
nothing of Lance in them.

Thus her thoughts ran, when suddenly
the minister's story, summed up by Sir
Peter, reached her ears, and forthwith the
landscape became a blank to her, and her
heart seemed to stand still, as she leaned
over the parapet above the speakers in

intense, painful eagerness to catch what was
to follow.

Sir Peter was eager for the sequel also.
*' AYhat was she charged with, tell me 
you did not let her go to prison ? " he
asked.

I put the first of your questions to a
man  a dock labourer, who followed them,"
answered Mr. Parker. '' He told me that
she had made a most determined attempt
to commit suicide from the deck of a
steamer under repair in one of the docks.
That it was only by the merest chance that
the attempt had been frustrated. He had
remained behind on this steamer till late
in the evening, in order to finish some work,
and by main force had held the girl back
from her attempt to jump over its side into
the basin "

There came a low, startled cry from the
balcony at this moment ; and, before Sir

G 2

Peter had time to realise who it was that
stood there, Madge was inside him with
clasped hands praying for the finish of the
story. " She is alive, only tell me that,"
she prayed, with blanched cheeks and
quivering lips.

Mr. Parker looked astonished. 'did
you know her  Etelka Mclvor ? " he asked.
** She said that she had not a friend in
the world."

*' She is alive, only tell me that ! ''
implored Madge.

Yes, she is alive and in safe keeping. I
attended the next day at the police-court
when she was charged with the attempt at
suicide. No friends came forward to claim
her, so I made myself known to the magistrate
and volunteered to charge myself with
her safe keeping."

Madge leaned against the stone balustrade
of the terrace. This sudden reprieve from

the sentence of her condemning conscience
was almost more than she could bear,

Stubbs's story then from beginning to
end was a fabrication ! The chances were
that the man or his confederate had traced
the girl to Liverpool, and had there lost sight
of her. With an eye to a comfortable
provision for himself in the future, and
taking[ it for granted that Jane Shore would
never again make her appearance at Upton,
he had then fabricated what seemed to him
a fitting end to the tragic story, and one
most likely to conduce to the fulfilment of
Madge's wishes  a necessary condition this
in order to the bringing about of the
aforesaid comfortable provision for himself.

The insertion of the false statement in
the Liverpool newspaper would be a matter
of easy accomplishment to him, for the
double reason that such sad stories were of
daily occurrence in the place, and that his

former connection with the Liverpool Press
made ways and means ready to his hand.

All this in quick succession passing
through Madge's brain, and coming hand
in hand with her sudden revulsion of feeling,
for the moment deprived her of the power
of speech.

It was not so with Sir Peter ; his ready
exclamations and questions flowed in a
stream.

"My dear sir, this is good news  Pve
not had better for many a day past ! Lance
will be overjoyed "

Here he broke off, and looked at
Madge.

But you found a home for her, of
course ? " he went on, cheerily, after a
moment. "Now tell us everything thai
happened  all you found out about her
from beoinnino to end."

Yes, I found a home for her. I took

her first of all to the wife of the Wesleyan
minister whom I knew intimately in Liverpool.
A worthy woman she was, with
eleven small children, and neither nurse nor
maid-servant in the house. Now here there
will be plenty of occupation, I thought, for
the young lady. If she has a kind heart,
and is grateful for her rescue from death,
she will set to work with a will to help
this poor Christian mother with her many
burthens."

Sir Peter fumbled in his pocket, and
presently produced from a letter-case an
indelible pencil and a telegraph-form, two
things, it may be remarked, which went as
regularly into his pocket every morning as
his purse or pocket-handkerchief.

If you'll give me the address of that
worthy woman, I think I'll send Miss
Shore  ah. Miss Mclvor, I mean  a few
words of  of congratulation on "

' She is not there now," interrupted Mr.
Parker ; *' and if you'll allow me to make
the suggestion, she is not in the frame of
mind at the present moment to appreciate
congratulations, however kindly intentioned
they may be."

Sir Peter looked disappointed as he put
away his pencil ; then a bright idea came to
him, and he took it out arain and besran
scribbling on his telegraph-form, making a
writing-pad of his letter-case.

Lance will be glad to know," he
muttered half to himself.

Madge thought her ears must have
played her false.

Lance is on the Mediterranean ? " she
exclaimed.

*' No, no, my dear; at Liverpool. Ah,
you didn't know  there, I've let it out  it
doesn't much matter. He altered his mind,
I'm glad to say  came back from Marseilles,

and is now at Liverpool investigating  ah
well, investigating  something ! "

Madge needed no farther telling. In a
flash of thought she pictured Laucc at his
dreary work at Liverpool  searching grave
records, hearing perhaps a hundred sad
stories in order to prove one false. She
pictured the rush of joy which Sir Peter s
telegram would bring him at his hopeless
task.

'let me send it," she pleaded, laying
her hand on the old gentleman's arm. '' I
should like it to go signed with my name."

It seemed to her that the one who had so
nearly wrecked the man's happiness for him,
might well be the one to send to him the
glad tidings that her endeavours had been
futile as well as misguided. Her message
was a brief one :

She is not dead. Come back at once. 
Madge."

Later on in the clay, Madge and Sir Peter
were to hear the story of Etelka Iclvor,
otherwise Jane Shore, so far as it had Been
confided to the Wesleyan minister.

It was a testimony to the aptitude of
the Rev. Joshua Parker for winning the

o

confidence of his fellow-creatures that he
should have succeeded in drawing from lips
so reserved a story fraught with such bitter
memories.

Possibly, however, the supposition that
she was lying on her death-bed, and the
natural wish not to pass all unknown into
the land of shadows, should by rights share
with the minister's persuasive powers the

credit of opening those hitherto obstinately-closed
lips.

Scared, stunned, with shattered nerves
and enfeebled bodily powers, Etelka followed
her rescuer from the police-court, which
figured to her bewildered fancy as a
veritable bar of justice. A fortnight's
serious illness followed, during which she
was nursed with assiduity by 'Hie Christian
woman with many burthens." It was
during that fortnight  when she believed
herself to be lying at the gates of death r
that she gave, in fragments, as her strength
permitted, the story of her life.

It was a pitiful story enough. Her
parentage was a curious one. Her father
was a Mclvor of Inverness-shire, who, when
cruising in his yacht in the Mediterranean,
fell in love with a beautiful peasant girl,
whom he chanced to see dancing in the
streets of Ajaccio, to the music of a

manrlolinc, played by her old grandfather.
The girl was of gipsy extraction, and the
old grandfather gained his livelihood partly
by his mandoline playing, partly by the
practice of magic and occult arts, which had
come down to him from his ancestry.

Hector Mclvor must have been madly
in love with this girl, for when she refused
to leave her native mountains and return
with him to Scotland, he spent nearly the
whole of his patrimony in the purchase of
an estate on the island, married her, and
settled down there as a fruit grower and
sheep-breeder.

In spite, however, of her great beauty,
the Corsican girl could not have made a
pleasant companion. She owned to a
gloomy temperament, was endowed withall
the passions and prejudices of her race,
and, among other superstitions, had a fixed
belief in the ruling of the planets. It was

possibly a matter of congratulation to her
husband that the whole of her kindred in
the island was represented by her aged
grandfather, who died shortly after the
marriage.

But though Hector Mclvor gave up his
Highland home, he did not forget it
When Etelka was born, he sent for his own
faithful old nurse and committed the little
one to her 'care. No doubt, in due course,
Etelka would have been taken over the
seas to make the acquaintance of her
Scotch kinsfolk if a bad form of fever
visiting the island had not ended her
father's life. Etelka was barely four years
old when this happened. The father left
no will, and his property fell unreservedly
into the hands of his wife. Less competent
hands could scarcely be imagined.
It was not only that she lacked the most
elementary knowledge concerning fruit-growing

or sheep-breeding, but that her superstitions
and prejudices interfered on all
sides with those who had practical knowledge
of these matters, and had filled
positions of trust in her husband's time.
Unlucky days were marked by her in the
calendar, and on those days nothing must
be done. Only when the moon was propitious
must fruit be gathered ; only when
Jupiter was in the sixth house must sheep
be bought or sold. Before she en oracle even
a labourer on the estate she must cast his
nativity and read the lines on his hand.

The result can be imagined ; both farm
and orchard speedily became unproductive
and unprofitable, and a yearly decreasing
income was the result.

It was providential for the child that
her Scotch nurse was a fairly-educated
woman, otherwise she would have grownup
in ail-but heathen ignorance ; the

mother never attempted to teach her
aught save astrological lore and the beautiful
dances in which she herself was so
proficient ; and this, she openly avowed,
was merely by way of amusement in order
to bring back in memory the happy days
of her own girlhood.

For where was the use to fight fate ? '
she would ask. '' Save in recollection,
happiness and prosperity could never more
visit their home." Life, so far as she was
concerned, was at an end ; the stars had
said it, and the stars could not lie. As for
Etelka, the malefic planets were in the
ascendant when she was born, and there
was nothing before her but a life of misery
and an early and violent death.

'' Look," she would say, opening the
child's hand. "Her line of life breaks
here, before she is twenty ; and at her
birth the moon was in opposition to Mars

in the eighth house. Any one who reads
the stars knows what that means."

So the mother cut herself off from all
companionship and sympathy with the
ill-fated little one, and Etelka was left
to the charge of the Scotch nurse, to be
instructed by her in such lore as the old
body had at command. Naturally, the
child was taught by her to speak her
father's as well as her mother's tongue.
They were sadly at a loss for books, however.
Etelka's mother took no interest in
procuring any for her child ; and the old
nurse was intent upon saving every penny
she could scrape together in order, some
day, to take flight with the little girl to
her father's people in Inverness. She kept
alive the memory of the father in the child's
heart by endless stories of his early days.
A Scotch newspaper, occasionally received,
was a mine of wealth and enjoyment to the

Horse and child. Etelka would have all
sort's of strange stories read to her by the
old body, who, with finger travelling down
the columns, would try to bring before the
child the geography of the places whose
doings were there recorded.

Honestly enough the nurse tried to do
her duty by the neglected child. She
racked her brain for tales from English and
Scottish history that would amuse and
instruct the little one. The stories of the
* Queen's Maries," " Fair Rosamond in her
Bower," and of '* Jane Shore," were as well-known
to the child as if she had been
English-born. The story of the last-named
ill-fated beauty who '* bewitched a King
and died a vagrant," made a deep impression
on her ; and the fact of the name
being easy of recollection and pronunciation,
no doubt led her later on, under changed
conditions, to adopt it for her own, when a

VOL. III. H

sudden request for her name was made to
her which she was unprepared to meet.

It was the nurse who, when the child
began to develop a rare talent for ,
supplied her with colours
and brushes, wherewith she taught herself
to paint the wonderful skies and grand
mountains of her Corsican home. It was
she also who gave the little one her first
faint notions of religion.

Calvinistic teachings from the nurse,
partial initiation into the mysteries of
astrology by the mother, wrought in the
little Etelka's mind a curious habit of
thought. " My mother," she said, as she
related this portion of her history to the
minister, *' believed in fate, and called her
belief astrology ; my nurse believed in fate,
and called her belief by a long Scotch name
predestination. "

Lying awake at nights and gazing up at

the stars, the little one used to wonder in
quaint, childish fashion which was the star
with the long Scotch name, which no doubt
had ruled her father's destiny.

Debarred from playthings and all childish
playfellows, it was no wonder that Etelka
turned for companionship to the only
young human being who ever came in her
.way, a boy  Giovanni by name  who kept
her mother's goats on the mountains.
Giovanni was about her own age, and
speedily became devoted to the little girl.
He taught her to climb the mountains, he
made rods for her to fish with in the
mountain streams, and showed her how to
peel the young cork trees and make canoes
of the bark, which together they floated
out to sea.

In return, Etelka taught him all she
knew of the lore of the planets, and tried
to read his destiny for him in the heavens.

H '2

So things went on till Etelka was about
twelve years of age, when her aged nurse
died. On her death-bed she handed to
Etelka the whole of her savings in English
gold and Italian silver, bidding her keep
the money safely, as sooner or later she
might want it in order to make her way
to her father's people, who, she assured
the girl, would receive her with open arms.
She also gave Etelka many and minute
directions  which she made her take down
in writing  as to the line of route she
would have to follow in order to get to
her Scotch home.

No doubt the faithful servant, takins
into account the young girl's rapidly-developing
beauty, saw dangers ahead of
which Etelka had no conception.

After the nurse's death, things grew
gloomier than ever. The house and the
estate by this time had fallen into utter

ruin, and if it had not been for Giovanni
and  his mother, Elmina  who took the
place of the Scotch nurse in the house 
Etelka, at times, would have wanted food,
and also would have been compelled to
perform the commonest household duties.

Her mother she rarely saw. All absorbed
in her occult arts, she was shut in one room
nearly the whole day, and only wandered
out at nights to lonely heights to study the
positions of the planets. At rare intervals
she would take Etelka with her on these
midnight wanderings, show her her ruling
planet, and talk to her of sextile, trine and
square aspects, and the passage of the
planets through the signs of the zodiac.

Etelka, thirsting for sympathy and companionship,
prized these rare opportunities
of intercourse with her mother beyond
measure ; she stood greatly in awe of her,
and treasured her words as the inspired

utterances of a prophetess. The words
*' Fate wills it," so often on the mother's
lips, were slowly but surely exercising
a baleful influence on the young girl's
daily habit of thought ; and when one day
the mother took her by the hand and
pointing out one planet, told her that an
evil star was rising for her, and a crisis in
her life was at hand, Etelka trembled for
what was coming.

Etelka carried her fears to Giovanni, who
Lad by this time grown into a fine, handsome
youth. Giovanni, for the first time
in his life, only gave her half his attention.
He had a great piece of news to tell. A
chalet on the coast which had lone been
empty, had been rented by a Neapolitan
gentleman and his mother ; the mother was
an invalid, and came for .the sea-air ; the
son  the Count Palliardini  was a sportsman,
and he came for sport. The Count

had met Giovanni as he was driving his
goats along the mountain road, and had
offered him good pay if he would act as his
guide during his stay at Santa Maura.

Etelka, describing this Count Palliardini
to the minister, admitted that he was
handsome in person, courtly and polished
in manner. He was cosmopolitan in his
tastes, a first-rate linguist, speaking with
ease three or four languages ; he was also
a wonderful improvisator, and skilled man-colonist
; last, but not least, he was so
formidable a duellist, that to cross swords
with him meant certain death.

The first* time that this man saw and
spoke with Etelka, he fell desperately in
love with her, and, young as she was, wished
to make her his wife.

Etelka shrank from him with what
seemed an unaccountable repugnance. She
distrusted his courtly suavity, and suspected

that his ootrusively-displayed, effeminate
tastes covered a coarse and brutal
nature. Man of the world as he was, he
laughed at her girlish dislike, and referred
the matter to her mother. The mother as
usual declined to take an active interest in
her daughter's affairs. " What fate ruled
would be," she said. " That year was a portentous
one to Etelka ; before it ended an
evil planet would be at the square aspect of
the place of the sun at her birth." And then
she shut herself up once more in her lonely
observatory at the top of the house and
abandoned herself to her mystic studies.

It is possible that Etelka, in spite of
her dislike to the Count, night have
yielded to his importunities if Giovanni
had not at this time begun to make his
influence felt. He brought to her strange
stories of Count Palliardini's life in the
outer world of which they knew so little.

He had gathered from talk which he had
overheard between the Count and his
mother, that neither the Countess's ill-health,
nor the Count's love of sport, had
been their real reason for coming to Corsica;
but that the Count was " under a cloud "
for a duel which he had fought in Naples
under suspicious circumstances, his adversary
being his own cousin, by whose death
from his sword - thrust he had greatly
benefited.

People in Naples had raised a hue-and-cry
over the business, saying that the Count
had purposely picked a quarrel with his
young cousin ; and, hence, the Count and
his mother had found it expedient to retire
for a time from Neapolitan society before
attempting to take possession of the deadman's
inheritance.

Giovanni further went on to say that
the Count in his own home drank freely

of wine, was hard and tyrannical to this
servants, cruel to dumb animals, and
boasted freely of the women's hearts he
had brokcD, and the men whom he had
killed in duels.

Etelka, with her mother's prophecy of approaching
evil ringing still in her ears, was
seized with a sudden terror lest that prophecy
might have its fulfilment in her marriage
with this man whom she hated and feared.
She resolved to do her best to free from her
evil destiny, and, together with Giovanni,
laid a plan for taking flight from Santa
Maura to her father's people in Scotland.

They took Giovanni's mother into their
confidence ; and she, no doubt stimulated
by ambitious views for her son, helped
forward their plans. The three moored over
the old nurse's directions which Etelka had
taken down in writing, and again and
again they counted up the legacy of English

fold and Corsican silver which Etelka had
kept in a safe hiding-place. They decided
that Giovanni should accompany Etelka to
Ajaccio (whence she would take boat for
Marseilles), and remain there until Etelka
sent money for him to follow her, as
their store of gold was inadequate for the
travelling expenses of two persons. The
early twilight was fixed for the time of
their departure, when Etelka's mother
would be shut up in her observatory, and
Giovanni's master would be enjoying his
evening siesta.

Their councils were held, and arrangements
were "made with the greatest care
and secrecy they imagined. Some incautious
act, however, must have betrayed
them.

On the day they had fixed, and at the
twilight hour, Etelka crept out of her home
and made her way over the mountains to

the edge of the forest, where she and
Giovanni had arranged to meet. She kept
her eyes downcast ; she would not lookup
to the skies, for there she knew shone
out the bright planet she had learned to
hate.

But it was not Giovanni who stepped
from out the shadows of the big plane
tree and took her by the hand, but Count
Palliardini himself.

'might he have the pleasure of being
her escort ? yas she expecting to meet
the boy Giovanni ? Ah, yes, he had met
with an accident that day. Well, there
were enough and to spare of such canaille
as he, and one less would be so much
to the good."

These were the words with which he
greeted her.

Giovanni's accident, when it came to be
told, proved to be " that last dread accident

which men call death." The Count's
statement was that he and Giovanni had
gone fishing in the early morning in one
of the mountain streams ; he had gone
higher up the stream than the lad, and
when he came back had found him lying
face downwards in the river-bed with
his rod floating down-stream. He conjectured
that the lad had dropped his rod
into the water, and trying to recover it, had
fallen in, and been carried out of this depth.
The Count had called to some shepherds
for help, but when between them they had
got the boy out of the stream, life was
extinct.

Etelka went back to her home dazed and
stunned ; she and Elmina suspected foul
play on the part of the Count, but there
was no evidence to support their suspicions.

Before Etelka had time to rally from
the shock of this calamity, another followed

Oil its heels. Her mother, in attempting
to cure herself of ague, from which she
suffered through exposure to clamp and
night air, took an over-dose of some vegetable
poison that she was in the habit
of employing as a medicine, and in a few
hours was dead.

Her last words, as she lay with dying
eyes fixed on Etelka's face, were: "Poison
for me ; poison, or fire, or flood for you 
the stars have spoken."

After the mother's death the Count
pressed his suit more hotly than ever.
Then it was that Etelka, driven to desperation,
looked up at the evil glittering
planet high in the heavens and defied it.
She resolved to fight her destiny. She had
tried to flee from it and had failed, now she
would fight it.

But of the means by which she endeavoured
to do this the minister knew

nothing for certain, although, possibly, his
suspicions went near to hitting the mark.
*' At this point in her story," he said, '' the
girl had turned her face to the wall, and
her lips had once more been obstinately
sealed." Of her attempt upon Count Palliating's
life, her hurried flight to England,
and her stay at Upton, she had told him
nothing.

From this point, however, Madge found
it easy enough, in imagination, to take up
and finish the pitiful story. She could
picture Etelka, in the gloom of her desolate
home, handling her mother's poison bottles,
while the lamentations of Elmina over her
only son rang in her ears, together with
the woman's cries for vengeance on his
murderer.

She could picture the girl laying her
plans, step by step, up to and after her
terrible attempt at crime ; her hurried flight

to Marseilles ; her brief stay there to provide
herself with less remarkable clothing
than that her island village could supply ;
her arrival, half-dazed and bewildered, in
England ; her attempt to reach her father's
home in Inverness ; and her recognition of
the hand of fate in the railway accident,
and the arrival of Lance and Sir Peter on
the scene of disaster.

After this, there had come, no doubt, a
partial awakening of conscience, a sense of
remorse intensified by the thought of a
relentless pursuing Nemesis.

With the light of her luckless history
thrown upon it, it became easy to understand
her attempts upon her own life ; her
terror of what was hangings over her head
as each attempt failed ; and, finally, her
revulsion to joy and gratitude, and her
tremulous snatching at better things when
the newspaper brought the tidings that she

was not the murderess she had supposed
herself to be, and the proffer of Lance's
love made her judgment subordinate to the
voice of her heart, which suggested that
possibly her mother had misread her future,
and that after all happier days were in store
for her.

VOL. ni.

Sir Peter's handkerchief had gone very
often to his eyes during this recital. "If
we had only known, eh, Madge ? " he said
again and again, picturing to himself the
benefits he would have showered upon the
friendless girl had he known one quarter of
her friendlessness.

His heart was divided in two. It seemed
to him that so much misery should by
rights be crowned by the happy story-book
ending : " And she lived for ever afterwards
happy and comfortable."

Under the influence of this thought he
was disposed to bid Lance God-speed in
his wooing. Yet there was another side to

the question ; there was Madge looking
every, whit as white and forlorn as ever
that friendless young girl had looked.
Eeally, it was hard to say which way
his sympathies should be allowed to
incline.

But something else beside sympathy must
surely be required of him. They had been
sitting still a long time, it would be a positive
relief to set the wheels of life going in
one direction or another. " Did you ascertain
from Miss Mclvor the name of her
father's family place in Inverness  Mclvor
is a very general name in the Highlands ? "
he presently asked with a passing vision
of a delightful little trip to the Highland
capital to make the acquaintance of the
young lady's kindred.

Miss Mclvor refused to give me any
information on the matter' replied the
minister. " ' It was not to be,' she said,

I 2

in reply to my inquiries. From this I
concluded that she imagined that fate had
spoken against her joining her father's
people, and she had given up all idea of
doing so. I confess I did not urge her on
the matter. I could not see her in her
right place among the followers of John
Calvin, getting the seal set, as it were, to
her fatalism. It also occurred to me that
supposing Count Palliardini saw fit ta
pursue the poor girl to England, he would
naturally, in the first instance, trace out
these relatives of hers."

Sir Peter suddenly seemed to see a way
to a benevolent interference in Miss Mclvor's
affairs.

'' It occurs to me," he said, taking a little
trot round the room and coming to a standstill
at the minister's sid, '* that if any one
had taken the trouble to put the matter in
the right light to Count Palliardini  I

mean had represented to him the impropriety
of persecuting a young girl with his
addresses, he might have been induced to
offer her friendship instead. Now I should
amazingly like to have a good talk with
the man ; I'm sure I should do something
with him."

And now the old gentleman's brain was
filled with the vision of a pleasant little
trip to Corsica, and a delightful tete-d-tSte
with the Neapolitan Count.

"My dear sir! my dear good sir!"
ejaculated the minister.

*' Where is Miss Mclvor now  at Liverpool
? " interrupted Madge.

The minister resumed his story. " I
quickly found out that she was out of place
in the busy home in which I had placed
her ; but where would she be in her right
place ? I asked myself again and again. I
tried to picture her in a modern fashionable

drawing-room, on the boards of a
theatre, in a convent even. No; I could
see her nowhere in her right place. Then
one day I had a letter from my sister
Jenny "

"Ah, Jenny ! Who was she ; what washer
occupation in life ? " interrupted Sir
Peter ; to his fancy the minister was not
telling his story half fast enough.

"I was about to say. I left Jenny a
child when I went off to the colonies, I
returned to find her  well  say mature.
Jenny is a capital housewife, stout, handsome,
healthy, and active. And she had
been condemned, by circumstances, for
years to lead the life of a student ; to be
eyes, in fact, to a blind astronomer ; to
read science to him, and act as his amanuensis
by day, and at nights to gaze through
his telescope at the stars."

Capital ! " cried Sir Peter. ' " And you

made sister Jenny and Miss Mclvor change
places ! "

I did so. I could see Miss Mclvor 
mentally that is  in her right place in a
lonely observatory, with face upturned to
a night sky ! "

Madge started. There came back to her
the vision of a white face upturned to the
stars with a prayer for mercy on its lips.

The minister went on. " I knew, too,
that her astronomical knowledge and habit
of close observance of the heavens would
be most useful in an observatory. Poor
Jenny used to get such severe scolding
at times for inaccuracy and carelessness.
Deliver me from this if you possibly can,'
she had written to me on my arrival.
I'm losing my hand for short crust, and
as for stockings, I couldn't turn a heel now
to save my life ! ' So I asked Miss Mclvor if
she would allow herself to be guided by mein

this emergency. ' It is written,' was all
her reply. On her lips it meant ' Kismet !
I bow to that'"

Here Sir Peter's handkerchief went to
his eyes again. '*' Ah, that Count," he
murmured. " I would like to get hold of
him for five minutes ! "

Mr. Parker continued his story. '' I
knew something of this astronomer, or I
would not have suoorested such a things.
He is of Norwegian descent, Harold Season
by name, a man between seventy and
eighty years of age, whose eyesight failed
him ten years ago. He knows that his life
is drawing to a close, and he is bent on
verifying and classifying his observations
of the past fifty years of his life. He is
very poor ; has spent nearly all his fortune
in buying the finest astronomical instruments
that can be had, and consequently
he cannot afford to enslave a' scientific

assistant in his work. His wife, a woman
of about sixty years of age, does his housekeeping
for him ; and, because Jenny wanted
next to no salary, he engaged her to act as
his amanuensis, and, under his direction, to
survey the heavens. He is a good man ;
all who come in contact with him are the
better for it."

'* Ah ! poor, learned, good ! " summed
up Sir Peter. " We must get him here,
Madge ? Bring him back with Miss
Mclvor, build him an observatory on one
of the hills, and set him up in instruments.
What's the name of the place where he's to
be found ? " .

It's not far off. There is a bleak rock
on the Cumberland coast, about five-and-twenty
miles from here  at high tide it is
cut off from the land ; on it stands a round
tower, that, some years ago, was used as a
lighthouse. Svenson has been allowed to

locate himself in it for a small yearly rental,
and the roof-room, which formerly held the
light, he has adapted to the exigencies of his
telescope."

'* Father circumscribed for space though,"
ejaculated Sir Peter, thinking of the difficulty
of getting "a little exercise" under
such conditions. "It strikes me Miss
Mclvor will be uncommonly glad to get a
little more breathing room. We must get
her back as soon as possible, eh, Madge ? "

*' If you'll take my advice. Sir Peter,"
said the minister, preventing ]\Iadge's reply,
"you'll leave her where she is as long as
possible. To be under the same roof with
a man like Svenson is an education to a
person of Miss Mclvor's temperament. He
is a man of a high order of intellect, and
though untrammelled by religious conventionalities,
religion is the life and soul
of his being. I wrote to him fully of Miss

Mclvor's sad career, and begged him to
do-lies utmost to bring her to a happier
frame of mind. ' Make her, if possible, see
I wrote, ' that her astrological notions, to
be worth anything at all, must be pushed
to their widest limits, and then they will
be found to contain truths bigger than any
she woes of.' "

To their widest limits ! " echoed Sir
Peter, enthusiastically, more than ever convinced
that the Rev. Joshua Parker was a
man after his own heart. " I heartily
endorse, I entirely concur in all you say,
my dear sir ! But  but," here he stammered
and hesitated somewhat, " it's a little
puzzling  a little bewildering. Do you mind
explaining slightly what you do mean ? "

Not in the least ; my meaning is very
simple. I look upon astrology as a praiseworthy
endeavour, by thinkers of a certain
order, to account for the mystery of our

three-fold nature, and to embody classify,
and time the apparently arbitrary and resistless
influences which compel men to
certain courses of action. Now, if these
thinkers had thought a little harder, they
would have found that this three-fold
nature exists, not only in humanity, butin
all creation ; and that these apparently
arbitrary and resistless influences prevail,
not alone in this world, but throughout the
universe, and antedate the planets which
mark time for us by as much as eternity
antedates time. In other words, they
would have found that we are in harmony
with the planets only because the planets,
like us, are in harmony with the grand
and eternal laws which govern the universe,
and that these planets can no more give
a law to man, woman, or child on the earth
than the dial-plate of a clock can give a law
to the mechanism which moves its hands."

Sir Peter passed his hand over his forehead.
*' Eh ! it's a little puzzling. Did
Svenson understand all that, do you
think ? "

*' Undoubtedly ; his reply to me showed
he did. * My telescope will make her see
this better than my words could,' he wrote.
Before she leaves my roof I guarantee she
will see, that to make the stars spell out
the decrees of fate when she might read
in them the laws which govern fate, i&
like persisting in reading nursery rhymes-when
one might revel in the enjoyment
and education of Homer, Milton, or Shakespeare.'
" 

Madge, who had sat a silent listener
throughout this conversation, was impatient
to bring back the talk to Miss Mclvor's
more immediate doings. She had a
question, to ask, which held for her a
painful interest.

*' When did Miss Mclvor go to this
observatory ? " she said in a low, eager tone.

'' About ten days since we left Liverpool
*we ' means Jenny, Miss Mclvor, and I,"
answered the minister ; ''I had written
to Jenny to arrange matters with Mr.
Svcnson and to come to Liverpool incase
I might not be able to escort Miss
Mclvor on her journey North. We reached
Carstairs ; there I received a telegram
recalling me to Liverpool on matters connected,
with my ministerial duties, so I
commissioned Jenny to continue the journey
alone. She had an anxious time with ]\Iiss
Mclvor after I left them. The young
lady refused to continue her journey, and
took to gazing at the stars again. There
was another crisis in her life at hand,
she said, as also a crisis in some other
person's. She kept her room all day long,
and wandered out at nights. Jenny was

scarcely so vigilant as she ought to have
been, and Miss Mclvor disappeared one
afternoon, and did not return till early
the following day."

Did she give any account of her doings
during her absence ? " queried Sir Peter.

She came back saying that she had
taken train to a place that was memorable
to her, and had seen what she had expected
to see  Hie stars had not lied to her.'
Those were her words'

Madge drew a long breath. She felt
that the gray, shadowy form in the churchyard
was accounted for now.

All Madge's plans seemed turned, upside
down ; her preparations for her journey to
Spain came to a halt. The startling revelations
of a brief twenty-four hours had
seemed to put the Spanish convent into
the far distance. Now that what had
appeared to her as a sin, almost beyond
the hope of Heaven's pardon, no longer
brought a tragedy in its train, all thought
of penance for it vanished. Her mind
began to recover its balance, and, unconsciously
to herself, other duties in life began
to assert their claims. At the present
moment, however, her future owns a blank

lier. Till Lance's fate was decided, she
could give no thought to her own.

Although she no longer harboured enmity
against the woman who had supplanted her
in Lance's love, she had no wish ever again
to stand face to face with her. Also, from
the bottom of her heart, she prayed that
she might never again in this life meet the
look of Lance's wrathful eyes. All she
desired now was to know that the happiness
of this man, for whom she had risked so
much, was assured to him. Gervase
Critchett's death had given back to him
wealth and worldly prosperity. Her one
desire vas that love and happiness might
crown both for him.

She waited impatiently for telegram from
him acknowledging hers. When, however,
one day had ended and another had begun,
and there had not come back the swift
Thank Heaven " on which she counted

VOL. III. K

she grew vaguely uneasy, and consulted Sir
Peter on the matter.

His face, as he listened, implied a
secret to be kept ; and his lips disclosed
that secret on the spot. He even fetched
Lance's letter, and, skimming it with his
eye, read portions aloud. He seemed to
feel considerably relieved when he had got
rid of his secret, and she knew as much
about Lance's movements as he did. He
hazarded the conjecture that Lance's investigations
might have taken him out of
Liverpool  to London, perhaps ; but suggested
that work might be found for the
telegraph wires in the shape of a kindly
message to Miss Mclvor.

Madge demurred vigorously to this.

By a painful effort of self-abnegation she
put herself for one moment in Miss Mclvor's
place, and swiftly decided that overtures
for a renewal of friendly intercourse must,

in the first instance, come from Lance. If
Miss Mclvor were inclined to accept him asa,
future husband, she might be willing, for
his sake, to pardon the slights put upon herby
his people. If such a far-away possibility
as her rejection of Lance's suit came to be
realised, then the wider the gulf between
her and Upton the better.

Before that day ended, Sir Peter's conjecture
as to the reason of Lance's silence
was confirmed.

A stranger arrived at the Castle station
his business was urgent, and that he
wished without delay to see both Mrs. Cohen
and Sir Peter. He was a detective from
Liverpool ; for Sir Peter he had a question ;
for Mrs. Cohen an important communication.
The question to Sir Peter was : What was
the latest news received of or from his late
secretary, Mr. Stubbs ? The communication
to Mrs. Cohen conveyed the intelligence

that cheques for various large sums, bearing
her signature, had lately been paid into the
county bank at Liverpool by persons who
had had dealings with Mr. Stubbs, and it
was important to know if these signatures
were forgeries.

The detective went on to say that
suspicion in the first instance had been
aroused against Mr. Stubbs by inquiries
made by Mr. Clive of local magistrates, and,
subsequently, of the police authorities. It
had so chanced, also, that, on the very day
on which Mr. Olive's inquiries were made
of the police authorities, a man, who gave
himself out to be a clerk in a private
inquiry office at Carstairs, in which Mr.
Stubbs had at one time been employed,
made an important communication to the
chief inspector. It was to the effect that
he had reason to believe that Stubbs had
stolen Mrs. Cohen's cheque-book, and that

certain cheques which he had been dealing
out . rather freely of late, had forged
signatures attached to them.

The detective furthermore added that
there was little room for doubting that the
informer had at one time been an accomplice
of Mr. Stubbs's in certain shady transactions
which had recently come to light, and it
was possible that Stubbs's greed in keeping
his spoils to himself in his latest peccadillo
had severed the bond between the two
rogues.

Madge had also but little doubt on the
matter, when she recollected Mr. Stubbs's
ready talk of a friend at Carstairs, who had
acted as his agent from time to time.

A search through the davenport, in which
Mrs. Cohen had been wont to keep her
cheque-book, confirmed the surmise as to its
abstraction.

Sir Peter's grief and bewilderment at

these revelations took in turns a comic and
a tragic form. He vowed  walking up and
down the room very fast  that he would
have no more 2oteges if he lived to the
aoje of Methuselah ; that he would withdraw
his name from every charity-list on which
it figured, except that of the asylum for
lunatics and idiots, who, after all, were the
only reliable honest people in the world.
Finally, he "got upon rockers" in front of
the detective, and, raising his eyebrows
very high, and tip-toying very fast, asked a
series of surprising questions : "Why should
he not withdraw his charity subscriptions if
he felt so disposed ? Was not his money
his own, his name and his time also at his
own disposal ? Was he to stand still, and
allow himself to be cheated by every rogue
who came along ? "

The worthy detective, never before
having had the pleasure of meeting Sir

Peter, was a little inclined to doubt the
old, gentleman's sanity. His doubts grew
upon him when, the next moment, Sir
Peter suddenly sank into a chair, supplemented
his series of questions with a series
of apologies  " He wasn't himself at all ;
his head was o-oino; round with the startling
news he had received during the past
twenty-four hours "  and then as suddenly
started up again, vowing that he had had
no exercise that morning ; and there and
then set off for a promenade in a gale that
fell little short of a hurricane.

Madge, left alone with the detective, put
the question which she had with difficulty
kept back :

Did he know where Mr. Clive was at the
pr-sent moment ? "

The detective replied that when Mr.
Clive had called at the police-office on the
previous day, he was on his way to London

to institute an investigation into the disappearance
of a young lady who, Mr.
Stubbs had stated, had committed suicide
at Liverpool, but who it was possible might
not have been near Liverpool at all. Mr.
Clive, however, had said that he would
be back at Liverpool the next day in order
to follow up a certain clue which he had in
hand there. He had given in writing a
description of this young lady to the chief
inspector of police, who had forthwith set
inquiries on foot.

Then the detective drifted back to Mr.
Stubbs and his roguery. There was every
reason to believe that the man under
another name had taken passage to America
with his stolen property ; the cable,
however, had been set going, and there
was little doubt but that as soon as he
landed he would be arrested and sent back
again.

But Madge had too many deeper interests
at heart at the moment to be much concerned
by Mr. Stubbs's chances of detection
or escape.

"Did Mr. Clive give any address in
London to which a telegram could be sent ? "
she asked.

He did not, madam," replied the man,
astonished at the lady's want of interest in
her banking account. *' He won't dare
attempt to pass another cheque now  he'll
guess that by this time the affair has got
wind  Stubbs, I mean," he added, getting
back to the subject which had the greatest
professional attraction for him.

Sir Peter came back, scarlet and breathless
from his battle with the elements, but in a
decidedly more cheerful frame of mind. It
was to be a busy day for him. He had no
sooner got back to the house than Mr. Parker
presented himself, great-coated and with

bag in hand, ready to depart. His time
was not his own, he said. He was but a
paid servant after all, and was bound to go
about his business, not his pleasure, without
further delay.

Sir Peter was vastly disappointed. He
had conceived a strong liking for the worthy
minister, whose theories on matters of
benevolence were, from one point of view,
strangely in accordance with his own.

If I had only known you earlier in life.
I could have accomplished so much more in
my sixty years, ' he sighed.

He forest his outburst of a moment aso
against philanthropy in all its branches,
and pictured regretfully what a wonderful
partnership in benevolence might have
been set up if his active mind and liberal
purse had seconded the minister's keen eye
for matter in the wrong place.

We'll build you a chapel in' the valley,

and find you lots to do if you'll pitch
your tent here," he said, utterly oblivious
of the fact that he had always announced
himself to be " a staunch supporter of
Church and State, sir."

The minister shook his head.

I must go where I'm sent. I can't see
myself here among your educated respectful
farmers and peasants ; but I can see myself
where I'm ordered to go  among the rough-and-ready
miners in the Durham coal pits."

Sir Peter's hopes revived when he found
that the minister's destination was not far
from Pedestal. He knew that he must
of necessity  see a good deal of Pedestal
now that Madge's interest in her property
there had grown so languid, and hence
there was a chance that he and the worthy
minister might often meet.

A large amount of hand-shaking and a
very hearty farewell followed.

The minister's last words were an entreaty
that news of Miss Mclvor might be
sent to him so soon as there should be
any to send, for he would never cease to
take the deepest interest in her, although
he felt himself to be supplanted in his
guardianship of the young lady by these
influential friends of hers.

The arrival of a second visitor, before
the wheels which conveyed the minister
on his road had died in the distance,
thoroughly restored Sir Peter's equanimity.

"Dear me," he said to the servant who
announced the fact to him, " first one
thing, then another. Wanted everywhere ;
can't get a minute to myself ! What name
did you say ? Palli-ar-di-ni ! Count Palliardini
! Ah ! Show the gentleman in
at once, and see that we're not disturbed."

It seemed to the old gentleman that
this unlooked-for event must have been

arranged by special later mention of Providence,
In order to give him scope for his
benevolent Intentions.

*she has come to make Inquiries after
Miss Mclvor, of course," he said to himself.
*' Now I shall have the opportunity
of reasoning with him and setting matters
before him In a rloht llght. Shouldn't
wonder If I make a different man of him
altogether before I've done with him."

His sense of importance grew upon him.
He wheeled a big chair up to a big table,
and pictured himself seated there lecturing
the Count.

"But I .must be discreet  very," he
said to himself as he heard the Count's
steps approaching. " What am I to say
when he asks where the young lady is ?
Well, I'm not obliged to tell him, am I ?
I flatter myself I can keep a secret if I set
my mind to it."

'*Ah, a fine, handsome young fellow!
doesn't look the villain we've given him
credit for  perhaps things have been a trifle
exaggerated. But I must be discreet 
very!" said Sir Peter to himself, as Count.
Palliardini crossed the room, and gave him
for greeting the most courtly of bows.

The Count was tall, and slight in figure.
His carriage was good, his dress was
faultless. He had driven nine miles across
country in a blustering gale, yet not a hair
of his head seemed blown astray. The
solution of this mystery lay in the fact
that on arriving at the Castle, he had
stopped for a good five minutes in front of

a mirror in the hall to arrange his hair
with a pocket-comb.

Of the lazy, effeminate, Italian type, '
was Sir Peter's second thought as he noted
the young man's slow and languid movements.


And *this hand is the hand for the
guitar, not the sword ; depend upon it his
prowess has been exaggerated," was his
third and last thought as he looked at the
slender, white hand which, for a moment,
touched his in response to his essentially
English acknowledgment of the courtly bow.

Count Palliardini summed up Sir Peter
in a very few words.

A very small picture with a very large
margin," he said to himself, as he took a
leisurely survey of the small, plump, old
gentleman seated in the lofty room, which
could with ease have accommodated the
congregation of a village church.

Now, how shall I begin ? I've a good
deal to say," Sir Peter thought. Then a
sudden fear seized him : '' What if he
doesn't understand English ! The idea
never struck me before."

The Count speedily set his mind at rest
by saying in excellent English that he
must beg Sir Peter to accept his apologies
for his sudden and unceremonious arrival.
He could only plead the extreme urgency
of his business as his excuse.

Save for the roll of his E's, and the distinctness
with which he spoke his final
syllables, one might have set down English
as his mother-tongue.

''No excuse is necessary, my dear sir,"
said Sir Peter, immensely relieved at the
Count's linguistic capabilities. " Your name
is not unknown to me. Only yesterday
I was expressing a wish to make your
acquaintance."

The Count for a moment let his large,
black eyes rest on Sir Peter's face. " Now,
what is behind all this ? " those eyes seemed
to say.

He would have been greatly surprised
if he had been, told that nothing beyond a
benevolent wish to deliver a homily on
the duty of kindliness and unselfishness
lay behind the old gentleman's friendly
speeches.

He acknowledged the friendliness with
another courtly bow. Then he went on to
explain the object of his visit, mentioning
Miss Mclvor by name, and speaking of her
dead mother: as a valued friend of his own.

"I have had some little difficulty in tracing
the young lady to your house," he added.
* If it had not been for her striking
personal appearance, I do not suppose I
should have succeeded in coins so thrush
the many breaks in her journey."

VOL. III. L

*' Ah, what made you fancy she lead
come to England ? " queried Sir Peter, desirous
to get a little time for himself in
which to arrange the opening sentences of
his lecture.

I knew that Miss Mclvor had relatives
in Scotland, and when she suddenly disappeared
from her home I naturally concluded
that she had gone on a visit to them. I
had some little difficulty in discovering to
which of the Mclvors her father had belonged
 there are so many of that name
in Scotland. When, however, I succeeded
in finding his people, and heard that she
had not been near them, I set the police in
Edinburgh and in London to work. It is-thanks
to their efforts that I am here."

Sir Peter was perplexed. He knew well
enough what the Count's next question
would be. He wished he had had time to
consult Made on the matter before rushing
so momentous an interview.

Miss Mclvor left us some little time
back," he said, presently. *' There, tjiat
tells him nothing," he added to himself.

Yes, I know," answered the Count. " It
was the stir which her sudden departure
from your house caused in the neighbourhood
which enabled the police to trace her
to Upton. But you have had news of her
since she left ? "

Ash, yes  very satisfactory news, I'm
glad to say."

There, that tells him nothing," once
more he added to himself.

The Count looked at the old gentleman
steadily. '*I shall be much obliged if you
will tell me where she is at the present
moment, and the quickest way of getting to
the place," he said, after a moment's pause.

Sir Peter pushed back his chair, rose
from the table, and commenced a quick
march round the room. Now or never for
his homily, he thought ; but really his ideas

L 2

wanted a little arranging. " Let me see,"
lie said to himself. *' First, there's this
gentleman to be reconciled to Miss Mclvor.
No, by-the-bye, he's in love with her
already ; it's the other way ! Miss Mclvor
is to be reconciled to the Count. Ah, but
we don't want her to fall in love with him ;
there's Lance to be thought of. Wei], I
must put in a good word for Lance somehow
 I can't have these two young men
quarrelling over the girl  and I must give
this young man a little bit of good advice.
What a blessing it is he speaks and understands
English ! Yes, I've a food deal to
say, and, before anything else, I must be
discreet  very ! "

The Count kept his seat, his eyes following
Sir Peter in his quick march.

"Is he a lunatic," he thought, ''or does
he suffer from rheumatism ? He seems a
little jerky about the joints."

Sir Peter came to a stand-still in front of
the Count's chair. He laid his hand kindly
on the young man's shoulder.

"My young friend, look at me. I'm an
old man  old enough to be your father,"
he said.

The Count turned and looked at him.
"No, it is not rheumatism; flighty  but
harmless  that's what he is ! " he thought.

He bowed acquiescence in Sir Peter's
remark.

Sir Peter went on briskly :

Pm sure you'll agree with me that
young men are sometimes the better fora
little fatherly advice."

A little fatherly advice ! " repeated the
Count, slowly, with just the faintest curl
of his upper lip.

*' Exactly. A little fatherly advice. Now,
I have an adopted son of my own. He
is about your own age ; a fine young fellow

like you ; and what I say to you this
morning, I am going to say to him.
Lance,' I shall say to him, ' the only way
to get happily through life is to give and
take.' "

"Ah, and this Signer Lance, this 'fine
young fellow,' will listen to you, and do
as you tell him  ' Give and take ' ? "

Sir Peter shirked the question.

I've a great deal to say," he began.

The Count pulled out his watch.

"Pardon me," he said, "if I say that
my business is urgent, and I have a train
to save. I shall be greatly obliged to you
if you weill tell me where Miss Mclvor is
at the present moment, and allow meas
quickly as possible to continue my
journey."

Sir Peter was disconcerted.

What I have to say is of great importance.
It concerns you, it concerns

Miss Mclvor, and it concerns my adopted
son, Lance."

There came a sudden change of expression
to the Comet's face.

How can what concerns Miss Mclvor
and me concern also this Signor Lance ? "
he asked.

He was prepared to listen now, not a
doubt, to what Sir Peter had to say.

Sir Peter shirked this question also. He
made an apparently irrelevant remark.

"If we would be happy we must make
others happy."

"Must we?"

Now  pardon my saying so  it occurs
to me that it is in your power to make
two people very happy. Those two people
are Miss Mclvor and my boy Lance."

All the languor, in a moment, had gone
out of those large Southern eyes upturned
to Sir Peter's face.

"Miss Mclvor's happiness is of importance
to me. Your boy, Lance, I do not
know."

** I shall be delighted to introduce you ;
we're expecting him back by every train.
I ought to have told you that when Miss
Mclvor left us so suddenly, he went in
search of her. Then, when he heard  ah !
well, it's a long story. At any rate, he
returned, and then set off again, intending
to go to Corsica."

Ah, I would have welcomed him, this
Signor Lance, if I had been there," murmured
the Count.

** I'm sure you would," said Sir Peter,
heartily. " Now, where was I ?  I've lost
myself, somehow. I was going to sa'  ah,
what was it ? "

The old gentleman looked *every much
mixed," and once more set off on a trot
to the farther end of the room. A question

from the Count, asked in a voice which Sir
Peter had not heard before, brougham back.

"Tell me," he said, 'this Signior Lance,
did he take a very great interest in Miss
Mclvor ? "

'' A very great interest is no name for it.
my dear sir ; he fell desperately in love with
her," answered the guileless Sir Peter ;
and Fm bound to say that at first I was
a little disconcerted at it  I had other
views for him "

*' You had other views for him ? "

*eyes  all this is in strict confidence,
my dear sir  a marriage was as good as
arranged between him and a lady  my

ward, Mrs. Cohen But bless me, I'm

running on ; this can't interest you in the
slightest ceo-ree."

I am deeply interested," said the Count,
in the same voice as before. " The lady
whom you wished the Signor Lance to

marry, did she take a deep interest in Miss
Mclvor ? "

"She did not at first ; in fact, I'm sorry
to say she took a most unaccountable dislike
to the young lady ; but afterwards, ina
most noble and unselfish way, she gave
up all thought of her own happiness "

He broke off abruptly.

"Ah, that's it," he cried, delightedly,
that bring's me back to what I was Gfoins:
to say "

Such sad news from the coast," said
Madge, coming into the room at that
moment, all unconscious of Sir Peter's
visitor. " A barque ran ashore last night,
about three miles below St. Cuthbert's

church Oh, I beg your pardon, I

thought you were alone."

A barque ashore ! " cried Sir Peter,
excitedly. Then he bethought him of the
courtesies of life. '* Madge, may I introduce

to you the Count Palliarclini ? " He
turned to the Count. " This is my ward,
Mrs. Cohen."

Madge almost started in her amazement.
She knew in a flash of thought that here
was a crisis to be faced. She looked at the
Count's slender white hand, and thought
of the stain of blood on it ; she looked at
his dark, handsome face, and said to herself:
" An ago with the face of an Adonis."

And the Count, as he bowed in acknowledgment
of the introduction, took a slow,
steady survey of Madge, and said to
himself :

"She has* no beauty; it is her lot to
love better than she is loved. She is
white and worn to a shadow ; she has
suffered. The little Marietta who broke
her heart for me had much such a look in
her eyes when I said to her : ' My child,
we must part.' "

The news of the stranded barque set Sir
Peter rinsfino the bell and ordering his
dog-cart to be brought round immediately.
He was equipped and out of the house ina
little over five minutes. During that
YQ minutes, however, he managed to get
through a good deal.

Madge wandered after him into the hall,
trying to whisper a question as to what
information he had or had not imparted to
Count Palliardini, for it was of first importance
to her to knows on what footing
affairs stood now. But pio ! before she
had time to get her question to her lips,
Sir Peter was back again in the library,

going through a series of polite apologies
and explanations to the Count.

'* So sorry to have to run away like this ;
but I'm sure you'll understand my anxiety
to be at the scene of disaster. Now, may
I have the pleasure of putting you up for
the night?"

The Count rose from his chair. "I
would rather you should have the pleasure
of dismissing me," he said. " I am anxious
to continue my journey, and if you will
be good enough to tell me where Miss
Mclvor is to be found, and how to get to
the place, I will start at once."

Sir Pet-er waved his hand towards
Madge, who stood in the hall just outside
the library door.

' Mrs. Cohen will answer all your
questions, I am sure, with a great deal
of pleasure."

Then he flitted into the hall again.

''Madge, my clear," he whispered, "I
leave the matter in your hands ; you will
know exactly what to do for the best."

"What have you told him?" asked
Madge, anxiously.

"Nothing, my dear, absolutely nothing;
I have used the utmost discretion."

Then he was back again in the library,
rinsing the bell to countermand some
order already transmitted to the stables.

Now, you won't hurry away ; you'll
have some refreshment before you go ? It
seems so uncourteous for me to start off
in this fashion ; but I'm sure you'll understand.
I've a big scheme in my head -"

This was said to the Count.

Ah, yes ! "  this to the servant  " have
Leah put to, she gets along faster in the
wind than Havelock "

Then again to the Count :

A big scheme, yes  I shall telegraph

to the Mayor of Carstairs and some of
the clergy to meet me this afternoon, so
that we can at once form a Vigilance
Committee to watch this part of the coast
while the gale lasts. Now I'm off ! "

Naturally, very little of this information
was of the slightest interest to the Count.
He slightly smiled.

*' Mrs. Cohen, you say, will answer my
questions ? " he asked.

But Sir Peter was now in the hall,
talking to Mrs. Cohen. *' Madge, my
dear' he was saying, "you have before
you a grand opportunity ! By the exercise
of a little tact and discretion, you may
succeed in effecting a vast amount of good.
You must speak plainly to the Count  The
cart's at the door ! "  this to a servant who
approached at that moment. " Ah, by
the way, I must get some more telegraph-forms,"
and back into the library he went,

to provide himself with these from one of
the writing-tables.

The Count had another "passing word"
from him.

It was :

I'm delighted to have had this opportunity
of speaking to you in my boy Lance's
interests  as I said before, ' give and take '
is a- golden rule."

Madge started aghast. Had he absolutely
flourished in the face of this man the fact
that Lance wished to figure as his rival ?

*' Madge, my dear," said the old gentleman,
hurrying towards the door, and stuffing
telegraph-forms into his pocket as he
went along, " don't forget there lies before
you the grand opportunity of making two
people very happy ; that is, of course, if
you can manage to make the Count see
matters in the right light. I've paved the
way for you. Between ourselves, I don't

think he's half such a bad fellow as has been
made out ; but be discreet above everything
else  remember I've told him nothing.
Now I'm off ! "

Madge knew by experience that he wasn't
ypt!

He got his foot on the step of his dogcart,
then ran up the hall steps in a great
hurry to give an order that blankets were
to be sent after him in bundles, all that
could be got together, as quickly as possible
and brandy  and rum  also as quickly
as possible.

Then Madge had another word whispered
into her sar : " Not half such a bad
fellow ; but be discreet, my dear. Now
Tm off!"

And this time he really was *' off." With
his foot once more on the step of the dogcart,
he waved his hand to her; the wind
carried his voice away, but she could see

VOL. III. M

that his lips formed to the words : " Be
discreet ! "

The old gentleman's anxiety to escape
from what threatened to be an embarrassing
situation was easy enough to read, and at
any other time Madge would have laughed
at it. The crisis, however, which this
anxiety of his compelled her to face without
a moment's preparation, was no laughing
matter.

She strove to collect her thoughts. One
thing only seemed clear to her  that there
was no use in attempting to shirk an interview
with Count Palliardini ; whatever
danger threatened must be met and faced,
alike in Lance's interests and in Miss
Mclvor's.

Of course the Count's one and only object
in coming to the house was ito discover Miss
Mclvor's hiding-place. Supposing that she
refused to give him any information concerning

it, two dangers seemed to threaten ;
one that he would stimulate the energies of
the police on the matter by pressing the
criminal charge against the girl ; the other
that he would seek an interview with Lance,
or dog and follow his footsteps, and in this
way obtain the information which he
sought.

Now how was she to face two such
momentous difficulties as these ?

She might have studied this question for
days and not have arrived at any satisfactory
conclusion on the matter. To
arrive at any conclusion, satisfactory or
otherwise, in a mere flash of thought was an
impossibility. She could only hope that as
she met or parried the inevitable questions,
her good angel might whisper a timely
suggestion in her ear.

She went back to the library to find the
Count standing in the window recess,

M 2

looking after Sir Peters vanishing dogcart.


'ris he always like this?" he queried, a
little contemptuously Madge thought.

To gain time for herself, she began a
series of apologies for Sir Peter's sudden.
departure.

*' It is an amazing benevolence," he
answered, the contemptuousness of his
manner becoming even more pronounced.
A few fishermen, more or less ! A few
more or less of the canaille to annoy and
get in one's way ! What does it matter ? ""

The words unpleasantly recalled the story
of the boy Giovanni's death.

He gave her no time, however, to express-her
indignation, but went straight to the
object of his visit.

Sir Peter has referred me to you,,
madame, for an answer to my inquiries-respecting
Miss Mclvor."

Madge seated herself in the window
recess, thereby turning her back to the
light. He took a chair facing her, the
full light falling upon his handsome, 
features, and bold, black eyes.

He went on :

Miss Mclvor, I believe, was staying
some little time in this house. Will you
be good enough to tell me where she is
at the present moment ? "

Madge felt that she must speak.

'*I scarcely think I am justified in doing
so," she answered, slowly.

The Count smiled, and looked handsomer
than ever. . His smile, however, was nota
genial one, but was caused by the thought
at how oreat a disadvantage these Englishwomen
were whose consciences would not
let them tell lies. Now, an Italian woman,
if she had not felt inclined to answer his
questions, would have vowed readily enough

that she knew nothing whatever on the
matter.

But he said only :

Will you be good enough to tell me
why you hesitate to give me this young
lady's address ? "

And Madge answered slowly, as before :

"I do not know that I am justified in
doing even that."

For a moment he let his black eyes rest
full on her face.

*she is not so much like Marietta as I
fancied about the eyes," he thought to
himself. " She is lovelorn ; yes, but she
is something else beside. Ah, it is that
stupid thing called conscience which makes,
her unlike Marietta. Marietta knew nothing
about that."

Again he smiled, and said lightly :

*you have scruples! Ah! Englishwomen
are always scrupulous  it is their charm.

But to whom shall I go if you will not
answer my question ? Sir Peter has departed ;
the Signor Lance is not here. Shall I wait
till the Signor Lance comes back, and put
my question to him ? "

And the way in which he spoke those
words, " the Signor Lance," told Madge
that her worst fears were realised, and
that Sir Peter had surpassed himself in
indiscretion.

In addition, it sounded a note of alarm.
Lance, most probably, was at that very
moment on his way back to Upton. At
any cost, a meeting between the two men
must be prevented, or at least deferred.

She answered calmly, although she felt
that her face betrayed her :

'' I suppose you mean Mr. Clive. I do
not know that he would feel any more
inclined than I do to answer your question."

But, so soon as she had said the words,

it occurred to her that there was in them
an undertone of defiance which, in the
circumstances, was scarcely prudent. So
she added, in a more conciliatory tone :

"You will understand, I am sure, that
the fact of a person staying in one's house,
and eating at one's table, lays obligations
of friendship upon one."

"Ah, you and Miss Mclvor were the
greatest of friends while she stayed in your
house," he said, in a tone that to Madge's
fancy bordered on the insolent.

She flushed scarlet. What did he, or did
he not know ? Had Sir Peter revealed her
feelings as \vell as Lance's towards Miss
Mclvor ?

'*I did not say that," sLe cried, indignantly,
then broke off abruptly, fearing
where her candour might lead her.

She took a moment or two to recover
herself.

Why should I say anything at all ? "
she began, and stopped herself again,
feeling as one might feel on boggy ground,
when every step lands one farther in the
mire.

*why should you, indeed," he answered,
calmly ; '' and why should I ask questions
which make you speak against your will,
when I can so easily get them answered
in another quarter ? "

Madge guessed in a moment which was
that other quarter.

You would not  could not surely "

she began.

I would  I could surely," he answered,
*' apply to the police for information I want
if I could procure it from no other quarter.
Your English police are immaculate. I
should simply say to them : ' This young
lady, whom you have traced for me so far,
once attempted to take my life by poison,'

and before a week was over my head, her
hiding-place would be found out."

Madge rose to her feet impetuously. The
words she had dreaded to hear were spoken
now.

I will not believe it," she cried. '' I
do not believe there lives a man who would
could act in so despicable a manner ! "

He rose also and bowed low. *' Madame,"
he said, '' you see that man before you
now."

For a moment neither spoke ; they simply
stood facing each other.

Madge, with her weakened health, her
want of confidence in her own powers of
persuasion or argument, dreaded to open
her lips; the words, "It would be cruel
atrociously cruel ! " escaped her against
her will.

He bowed again. "I do not contradict
you, madame ; do you not know that men

are often cruel  * atrociously cruel '  to the
women they love ? They will kill a woman
rather than let a rival win her."

And as he said this his dark eyes flashed
with an evil light, which made her once
more look at his slender white hand and
say to herself: 'rit ought to be red  red
as the blood it has shed."

The Count suddenly changed his tone
to his former courtly suavity.

*MVhy do I tell you this?" he said,
softly. " Why do I distress a tenderhearted
Englishwoman with stories of v/hat
men can, or cannot do, when they love or
hate ?  let ais sit down, madame, and talk
this matter over. This young lady is a
friend of yours ? "

The sudden, upward look which Madge
gave him might have been taken to express
dissent, but her lips said nothing.

Well, at least," he went on, " she is

a friend of a friend of yours ! " Here, to
Madge's fancy, his insolence in suavity surpassed
his former unmasked insolence.

'rand being a friend of this friend of
yours you wish her well," he continued.
*now tell me, do you not think the young
lady would be happier in Corsica, in her
own home, among her own people, than
among strangers in a foreign land, hiding
in terror from your police ? Sit down,
madame, let us talk the matter over ! "

But Madge would not sit down. She
stood leaning; her elbow against the window
recess, looking far away over the Castle
grounds and the valley beyond, to the
road alone: which Lance would come ridings
on his way home.

Suddenly she turned and faced the Count
with the question :

Whv must it be one thine: or the other ?
Why will you pursue her in this way ?

Why will you not let her alone to live in
England, or in Corsica, as she pleases ? "

He laughed a low, scornful lauofh.

"Ask the rivers why they flow to the
sea ; ask the sea why it follows the moon,"
he answered, " before you ask a man, who
loves, why he follows the woman he means
to get possession of." Here he broke offa
moment, then added, with a sudden,
furious energy : " I tell you, madame, if
that girl, Etelka, were shut up in the heart
of the earth, I would dig her out of it,
although I had nothing but these hands todo
it with ! " Here he extended . towards
her his slender, white hands. '' And I tell
you, moreover"  here his voice lost its
fury, and fell to a low, sullen, resolute
tone, that held even more of menace in
it  " I tell you that if I were lying on my
death-bed, and I felt that that girl were
slipping away from my grasp, I would

take a knife and shed her blood, drop by
drop, rather than let another man win
her."

All the lazy effeminacy which Sir Peter
had fancied he had detected in the man,
had disappeared now. His eyes flashed,
he set his teeth over his last word.
Madge, as she stood silently facing him,
took the measure of a man, relentless, cruel,
and of iron purpose, and said to herself
that he might well figure as the embodiment
of the forlorn girl's pursuing destiny.
Her indignation would find voice for itself.

You call that love ! " she cried. " A
selfish, cruel passion, that would sacrifice
everything to the desire of possession ! "

He bowed low.

In England you may call it by another
name ; but, believe me, in Italy it is what is
known by the name of love."

** And you think that such love as that

would bring happiness to you to Miss
Mclvor ? " she queried, impetuously.

He eyed her keenly for a moment. Then
a slight smile curled his lip, and he met
her question with another :

Tell me, madame, are you very much
interested in procuring happiness for Miss
Mclvor, or is it the happiness of the Signor
Lance you are thinking of, that you thus
refuse to tell me where the young lady is
to be found ? "

Madge was staggered by this directly
personal appeal ; also, she did not feel
inclined to admit his right to make it.

I decline to answer that question," she
replied, coldly.

He was in no way disconcerted.

'' If you wish the Signor Lance to marry
Miss Mclvor," he went on, " no doubt you
do well to keep her hiding-place a secret
from me. But supposing"  here his voice

sank to an insinuating tone  '' that you
did not wish the Signor Lance to marry
this young lady, all you would have to do-would
be to tell me where she is to be
found, and the Signor Lance would never
hear of her more."

He said the last words with a slow
emphasis.

Madge felt as if the pulses of her heart
for a moment ceased beating. So, then,
she was to be called upon to fight all over
again the battle which had nearly cost her
her life and Lance bis happiness.

The continued gaze of his bold, black
eyes became insupportable. She pressed
her hand to her forehead, shutting it out ;
shutting out everything, in fact, except the
voice of her own heart, which seemed to
tell once more from beginning: to end, the
story of her shattered hopes and deathless
love.

It seemed as if he read the turmoil of
her thoughts. He went on mercilessly :

"But of course, since you wish the
Signor Lance to marry her  the woman I
love  you will not do this. No ; you say
to yourself: *The Signor Lance is my
friend ; I will do my best to give him the
wish of his heart.' "

He broke off for a moment, then added,
contemptuously :

* Ah, these cold-blooded fools of Englishmen,
who will marry with the hot-blooded
daughters of the South ! Let them catch a
wild bird on the wing, and make it what
they call ' respectable ' before they try to
tame a Corsican girl with a wedding-ring ! "

Madge felt as if she must go down on
her knees, and pray to be delivered from
evil. Was this Count Palliardini speaking ?
she wondered. In very truth, she could
have believed that that poor, reckless, pas-vol.

III. N

senate Madge, who had loved and hated
so desperately, had suddenly taken separate
bodily form, and stood whispering her evil
suggestions with the Count's voice.

She withdrew her hands from her eyes.
In the brief moment that she had hidden
them, she had fought as mighty a battle
with her own heart as ever saint had fought
in cloistered cell.

She looked him full in the face.

''I have given you my answer," she said,
slowly, decisively. " I cannot  wall not
give you the information you ask for."

He bowed low.

'then I must seek it elsewhere," he said.
If you will allow me, I will ring your bell
and have that thing  'fly' do you call it?
which carried me here from your station
brought to the door."

Madge laid her hand impetuously on his.
arm.

*' Oh, why  why will you do this ? " she
cried, passionately. "Why are you so hardhearted
and cruel ? If you hunt her down
in this way, persecute her, make her miserable
for life, you will be none the better for
it ; it won't bring happiness to you."

The look in his cruel, relentless eyes had
convinced her that the only plea likely to
prevail with him must be based upon purely
personal, selfish grounds.

"Madame," he answered, again bowing
low, " I have the honour to wish you
good morning. If you will allow me, I
will continue my journey at once. I will
prefer to discuss my chances of happiness
with the Signer Lance."

Madge for a moment stood like one stupefied,
listening to the sound of the wheels which
carried the Count away, dying in the distance.
Then she drew a long breath. Yes,
he was gone, not a doubt, and there could
be no fear that he would ever return to
trouble her with his insolent questions and
black temptations ; but what, she asked
herself, would be his next step, what piece
of wickedness would he endeavour to set
in motion now ?

She began to reproach herself, not for
what she had done, but for what she had
left undone. She had trampled under foot
his hideous temptations, she had' given him

a negative to his request  a negative, indeed,
so calm and so decisive that any one
who heard it might have fancied that she
was acting upon a settled plan of action,
instead of being at her wits' ends to know
what to do for the best. But was the
doing of these two things an adequate
way of meeting so serious a crisis ? Looking
back upon her half-hour's interview
with the Count, it seemed to her that her
pleadings for Etelka had lacked fire and
earnestness, and that she had been terribly
wanting in common-sense to have let him
thus depart without getting from, him  as
she possibly might have done by adroitly-put
questions  some definite clue to his
movements and destination.

He had threatened to stimulate the
energies of the police by the revelation of
Etelka's crime ; he had said as a parting
word that " he would discuss his chances

of happiness with the Signor Lance," and
this, of course, was tantamount to a threat
of waylaying Lance with hostile intentions.
But which of these two threats did he
intend to put into execution first ? If the
former, then he would no doubt go straight
from Upton to London or Liverpool  or it
might be to Edinburgh  to one of the chief
centres of police inquiry, in fact. If the
latter, then he would assuredly remain
within a short distance of the Castle, on
the look-out for Lance.

She rang the bell, thinking that possibly
the servant dio had shown the Count out
of the house might be able to throw some
light upon his movements, or, at least, upon
his present destination.

Did Count Palliardini make any inquiries
as to trains when he left the house ? "
was her question when the servant made Diis
appearance.

None whatever, ma'am," was the reply.
*she told the man to drive him back to
Lower Upton. He asked me as he went
out if visitors to the Castle from London
or Liverpool must all pass through Lower
Upton ? Of course I told him ' yes.' "

' If visitors to the Castle froui London
or Liverpool must all pass through Lower
Upton," Madge repeated to herself.

The question seemed to point to the fact
that the Count intended to await Lance's
arrival at Lower Upton, either to pick a
quarrel with him or to dog his footsteps
thence, taking it for granted that by so
doing he would come upon Etelka's hiding-place.


Madge felt that her course lay plain
before her now.

She was willing enough to admit that
sooner or later Lance and the Count, as
rival candidates for Etelka's favour, must

meet face to face, and that no endeavours
of lies could prevent such a meeting.
She could only hope that when it took
place, Lance's cool courage and commonsense
might carry the day over the Count's
bravado and insolence. It was, however,
manifestly to Lance's interest that this
meetings should be retarded as lone: as
possible, or at least until after he had seen
and pleaded his cause with Etelka.

The one who was first in the field there
would be the one likely to win the day 
the Count by threats of a criminal prosecution.
Lance by the pleadings of his passionate
love. Madge knew little enough
of the penalty which English law attached
to attempts at murder : of the Corsican law
on the matter she knew nothing at all.
It seemed to her, however, that when the
circumstances under which Etelka's crime
had been attempted were taken .into consideration,

together with the Count's object
in instituting a prosecution, but a light
sentence would be passed on the girl,
more especially if weighty influence were
brought to bear on her behalf as Lance's
affianced wife.

All these thoughts in quick succession
passed through Madge's brain. Self was
dead in her heart now ; all selfish aspirations,
hopes, and longings had had their
death-blow dealt to them over again, as it
were, in that brief moment when, with
hand covering her eyes, she had stood
listening to the Count's evil whisperings
All her energies were concentrated now on
the endeavour to win for Lance the desire
of his heart, just as one on a death-bed
does his utmost to ensure the happiness of
his dear ones in a future in which he himself
can never play a part.

Her plan was quickly arranged. She

wrote a brief line to Lance, telling him of
Etelkas hiding-place, and bidding him go
there direct instead of returning first to
the Castle. There were strong reasons,
she added, why he should do this. It
would be easy enough, she knew, for him
to get to Cregan's Head from Carstairs by
posting direct to Elstree, a bleak little
village distant about two miles from the
headland below which, on a ridge of low
rocks, stood the disused lighthouse.

She said nothing of Count Palliardini's
unexpected visit, nor of any one of the
bewildering events which had occurred in
such rapid succession during Lance's short
absence from Upton. The great thing she
felt now was to defeat the Count's evident
intention of either delaying him on his
way to Etelka, or of acting the spy and
following on his steps.

Her letter written, she cast about in

her own mind for a trusty messenger.
Passing over Sir Peter's proteges, one and
all, she fixed upon Lance's groom as being
not only a discreet person, but also a good
rider  a consideration this.

She sent for the man and herself committed
the letter to his charge, bidding
him to take the swiftest horse out of the
stables for the nine miles of rocky road
which lay between the Castle and Lower
Upton. At Lower Upton he was to put
up his horse, and take the train to Carstairs ;
he could just save it by hard riding. At
Oarstairs he was simply to remain at the
station, await Lance, and immediately on
his arrival there, place the letter in his
hands. Whether Lance came on from
Liverpool or direct from London, he must
change trains at Carstairs for Upton, and
the man had orders to watch all trains
-arriving from both places.

Madge took the man so far into her
confidence as to caution him not in anyway
to attract the attention of Count
Palliardini, who might be waiting about
at Lower Upton station ; and still further
to prevent such a misadventure, she desired
him to change his livery for his plain
clothes.

After she had despatched her messenger,
she wandered about from room to room,
restless, nervous, and ill at ease, occupation
of any sort being an impossibility
to her.

There was not a soul in the house to
whom she could apply for a word of sympathy
or counsel. Sir Peter was not likely
to get back from his errand of mercy much
before nightfall, and Lady Judith, as usual,
was down at her farm. The gale of overnight
had unroofed a cattle shed, and had
sent down a chimney-pot into one of the

poultry yards, so she had deemed lier
presence at the scene of disaster a necessity,
in order to the safe housing of her
short-horns and Soudan.

Madge racked her brains to think
whether she could better have expedited
Lance's meeting with Etelka. At the time
that she had despatched the groom on his
errand, it had seemed to her that he could
not fail of intercepting Lance on his return
journey ; but now, as she thought over
things, all sorts of mischances began to
suggest themselves.

The fact that Lance had not acknowledged
her telegram of the previous day pointed
to one of two things : either that he had
not yet returned to Liverpool, and consequently
had not received it ; or else, that
he had decided upon acknowledging it in
person by an immediate return.

If the first supposition were correct, he

as yet knew nothing of the good tidings
concerning Etelka ; but most likely, with
a heavy heart, was pursuing in London
some supposed clue that might lead him
far afield, and Liverpool might not see him
for days.

If the second supposition were correct,
he might have started on his return journey
before she had despatched her messenger ;
in which case it was possible that he and
Count Palliardini had already met at Lower
Upton.

She scarcely dared to think of the latter
possibility ; it seemed a catastrophe whose
evil consequences she was powerless to
avert. But the first difficulty, looked fairly
in the face, did not seem insurmountable.
It might be that Lance, in the course of
his investigations in London respecting
Etelka's supposed death, or Mr. Stubbs's
false statements, had consulted Sir Peter's

solicitors on certain points on which,
perhaps, he dared not trust his own
unaided judgment. If that were the
case, the would no doubt be kept informed
of this movements, and would have
his latest address. Why not telegraph to
them for this, and then forthwith send a
second telegram to Lance, repeating the
message she had already sent by his groom
to Carstairs ?

She caught at this idea so soon as it
presented itself, wondering over her own
dulness in not having thought of it before.

To ensure secrecy in the despatch of her
telegrams, she resolved that she herself
would send them from Lower Upton
station. It might be that Count Palliardini,
if he waited there, had decided upon
watching the wires as well as the rails as a
possible source of information.

Also of necessity time would be economies

by her being on the spot to receive
the reply from the London solicitors, and
Lance would get his message, at the lowest
computation, about two hours the sooner
for it.

Madge, at her best, was not a good horsewoman,
and her recent failure in health
had still further unfitted her for a sharp
ride along a rough road. According to all
showing, she ought to have been ready to
collapse from fatigue before she had accomplished
five out of the nine miles which
lay between the Castle and Lower Upton.
The exact contrary, however, was the case.

When the soul is strong, the body is
strong." With every step her horse took
along that steep road, a fresh rush of
strength seemed to come to her. Even the
keen breeze, from which of late she had
shrunk, seemed to bring life and energy to
her. By-and-by, no doubt, the inevitable

reaction would set in ; but for the moment
she was in the mood in which o-reat things
can be dared and done.

Oh, you," she said to herself as she
rode along, 'who once before made it your
business to part these two, make it your
business to bring them together again, and
thank Heaven that the chance of atonement
is given to you ! "

The afternoon was beginning to wear
away. She timed herself for her nine
miles' ride.

"Five o'clock," she said, "it must be
when I ride past the knoll at the corner of
the station road." And five o'clock it was.

At this knoll she dismounted, gave her
horse to the groom, and bade him wait for
her there. It seemed to her that she would
attract less attention by slipping into the
station by a side door than she would if
she rode up to the front.

VOL. III. o

The wind, which had lulled throughout
the day, was beginning to rise now,
whistling among the stripped trees and
whirling the dry leaves before her in a
cloud. The knoll, at which she had pulled
up, was crowned with some straggling
young hazel trees; the sun had just sunk
behind these, leaving a great golden glare
which shone through the delicate tracery of
slender rods and leafless branches, like some
pale fire from behind a wrought-iron screen

Madge had brought with her a long cloak
and thick veil. Before she attempted to
enter the station, she shortened her habit
and donned both cloak and veil.

The telegraph office was on the other
side of the lines. The rinQ;inor of the bell
and a slight bustle on the ordinarily quiet
platform announced the arrival of a train
from Carstairs, and that consequently the
other side could not be reached at present.

She judged it best to slip into the ladies'
waiting-room till the confusion subsided.
This waiting-room, small in dimensions,
owned to a good-sized window, which,
looked directly on to the platform; through
this she could see all that was going on
without running any risk of recognition.

Naturally, as she took her stand at this
window, her first thought was : " Where is
the Count ? " A single balance answered
her question. There, in the very middle
of the platform, he stood, in a line with,
but with his back towards her window.
Among the sturdy country-folk, with their
baskets and 'bundles, his tall, well-moulded
figure showed somewhat as a giraffe might
show among a herd of bullocks. He addressed
a question to a porter who stood
near him ; the man appeared to answer it
in the affirmative ; so Madge conjectured
that the question might have been whether

o 2

the incoming train brought passengers from
Liverpool.

There followed the usual bustle of arrival
and departure. Madge thanked Heaven, as
the train glided out of the station, that it
had not landed Lance at the very feet of
his unknown foe.

There seemed to be a good deal of
luggage to be disposed of; some had to be
labelled for transit to outlying hamlets by
later trains. Evidently for this purpose a
small box was placed temporarily immediately
beneath the window at which Madge
stood.

And now a circumstance occurred which
sent telegrams out of her head, which, in
fact, reversed all her plans, and sent her
in hot haste upon another quest.

The Count came close outside her window
and addressed another question to the man
whom he had before interrogated.

Madge could not catch the question, but
she distinctly heard the man's reply, " No,
sir, he has not come by this train," so she
naturally concluded that the Count had
commissioned the porter to watch for, and
report to him Lance's arrival.

She drew further back into the room,
for the Count's large black eyes to her
fancy seemed to be piercing and searching
in all directions. Once she could have
vowed that they rested on her window,
and she trembled lest her thick veil might
be an insufficient disguise. It was not
upon her, however, that his eyes were
fixed, but upon the box which had been
deposited beneath the window, and upon
which an address-card had been nailed in
rough and ready fashion. The name on
that card had evidently attracted his
attention.

Madge, closely watching his face, saw a

sudden change of expression sweep over it.
Then he took from his pocket a notebook
and pencil, and carefully copied the
entire card.

A terrible suspicion flashed across her
mind. As the Count moved away to the
farther end of the platform, she crept out
of her hiding-place. A single glance at
the box confirmed her worst fears ; it was
addressed to

Miss Etelka McIvor,
Cregan's Head,

Near Elstree,

Cumberland.

The writing was big and bold ; the label
on the box showed that it had come from
Liverpool. Madge conjectured that possibly
it was some friendly package from Jenny,
the minister's sister, to  whose duties at
the observatory Miss McIvor had succeeded,
and who, knowing the scanty supplies

Cregan's Head could command, bad done
her best to remedy local deficiencies by
kindly gifts from the big city.

For a moment Madge stood as one transfixed.
All her elaborate plans and precautions
had been defeated by blind chance.

The Count's voice immediately behind
her recalled her to herself. He was asking
in his slow, mellow tones, which was the
most direct way to get to Cregan's Head.

The man so questioned replied that in
about an hour's time a train would start
for Elstree, a little hamlet about two miles
and a half distant from Cregan's Head.
There might be the chance of a horse ora
conveyance to Elstree, but people generally
walked the two miles. The railway
journey from Lower Upton to Elstree
occupied about an hour and ten minutes.

The Count had evidently changed his
plans, and instead of lying in wait at the

station for Lance, he intended to set off
for Etelka s hiding-place with as little delay
as possible.

Madge, in one flash of thought, seemed
to see alike Etelka's extremity and her
own opportunity.

Etelka suddenly confronted by the Count
would most likely say, " It is fate," and
yield to his combined threats and entreaties
; more especially as she was unaware
of the fact that Lance's love for her
had not wavered, and that Lance's people
were ready to welcome her among them.

The only way by which this danger
could be averted, it seemed to Madge,
would be for her to reach Cregan's Head
before the Count, plead Lance's cause with
Etelka, and make light of the Count and
his threats  hold the ground, in foot, for
Lance, till he could take it and hold it for
himself.

In pursuance of this plan there was
evidently not a moment to be lost.

She made a swift reckoning; of the time
that would elapse before the Count could
arrive at Cregan's Head. There would bean
hour before the train would start for
Elstree, then an hour and ten minutes in
the train, then two miles to walk in the
darkness in a country he knew nothing at
all about. She felt that close upon three
hours was scarcely too much time to allow
for all this, and that a pair of good post-horses
might cover the distance in about
two.

She threw a furtive glance in the direction
of the Count. Gas lamps were being
lighted on the platform now ; beneath one
of these he stood rolling up a tiny cigarette
in leisurely fashion. His easy attitude, and
the half - scornful, half-triumphant smile
which lit up his handsome features, seemed

to say : *' The road before me is plain and
easy now."

With swift feet she made her way out
of the station straight to the one inn that
Lower Upton could boast.

She lifted her veil and made herself
known to the landlord.

'' Yes, I am Mrs. Cohen," she said, in
answer to the man's look of surprise. " I
want to get to Cregan's Head  posting it 
within two hours from now. Can it be
done?"

The man's face began to lengthen to a
demur.

Madge would not let him utter it. " It
must be done  it is of first importance,"
she said, peremptorily. '' You know I do
not spare my gold when I am in earnest
about anything."

Yes, he knew that well enough, as did
the whole country round for miles.

"Very well," Madge went on, watching
the demur die rapidly out of the man's
fcice. '' I will give you twenty pounds for
every mile of the road your man takes me
over if he will get me to Cregan's Head
within  mind, I say within  two hours
from now ; and in addition I will give him
twenty pounds for himself. And you
must not let a soul in the place know that
I am here, or that any one has started for
Cregan's Head. I will wait for your
horses outside the village, at the knoll
beyond the station."

There were of necessity no objections
that were-worth weighing against such
golden inducements. Madge went back
to the little knoll outside the station to
dismiss her groom, and to send back a
message of excuse to Lady Judith. Within
ten minutes from the time that she had
given the order at the inn, she was being

whirled along the country road that led
to Elstree at an altogether unconscionable
speed.

There was no golden glare to be seen in
the sky now, it was one expanse of leaden
gray, splashed here and there  as if by an
angry hand  with sullen red. The wind
was steadily increasing in strength.

And it so chanced that at the very
moment that Madge Alas setting off behind
her two sturdy, yet swift-footed hacks,
Lance, arrived at Carstairs, was reading
the letter put into his hands by his groom.
It took him about a minute and a half to
debate with himself which was the best
line of route to be followed, and then he,
too, was on the road to the same destination,
mounted on the best horse that he
could hire in the place.

So here was Etelka's destiny hastening
to her that night by three several roads.

That swift drive in the windy darkness
along the steep road was one to be remembered.
The wind seemed to increase
in strength with every half-mile they
covered. It was not a mighty wind, buta
strong rushing one that filled Madge's
ears with all sorts of strange, wild cries,
and seemed to bring the rush of the ocean
to the very road-side long before they
neared the coast. There was a moon,
nearly at its full, a cold, white, ghastly
thing which showed now and again, when
a gust of wind swept away an inky mountain
of cloud. Madge held her watch in
her hand the whole distance in order to

take advantage of every such passing gust.
It had been half-past five as a turn in
the road lead hidden the slate roofs and
gray walls of Lower Upton from view,
and seven o'clock chimed from the village
church as the sturdy chestnuts clattered
along the stony street of bleak little Elsewhere

at the little inn which vaunted
itself as a " railway hotel'' Madge dismissed
her postboy with his tired horses,
and took possession of the only two which
the stables of the small hostelry could
supply, thereby cutting off from the Count
all means of transit to Cregan's Head from
this place, save that which his legs afforded.

She reckoned that by this time he must
have accomplished about half of his short
railway journey from Lower Upton to
Elstree, and that consequently in half an
hour's time he would be exactly at this
point in his road. To this half-hour she

thankfully added another for the two miles'
walk along the steep dark road which lay
between Elstree and Cregan's Head.

Madge knew Elstree very well, but, as
it chanced, had never been to Cregan's
Head, in spite of its short distance from
Upton. Although she had frequently heard
it described as " the other end of nowhere,"
or " a God-forgotten place, where gulls
were plentiful and Christians few," she was
totally unprepared for the scene of utter
desolation which met her view, as the
man pulled up his steaming horses at the
foot of a narrow pathway, which seemed
cut out of a mass of black rock.

It's as near as I can take you, ma'am,"
he said in reply to Madge's astonished
exclamation :

But surely this is not Cregan's Head ! "

She strained her eyes, peering into the
surrounding darkness.

"Which way lies the coastguard station ?"
she asked. " Where is the little fishing
hamlet, and where the old lighthouse ? "

Behind her the bare gray road, along
which they had driven, wound away into
gloom ; before her stood the dark mass of
rock, cleft by the narrow, upward-winding
pathway ; on her left hand lay a dim waste
of country, with stunted trees showing
black out of the whitish ocean mist which
overhung it ; on her right hand stretched
the expanse of ocean  miles upon miles of
moving, rushing, noisy darkness.

The man answered her questions in
succession.

The coastguard station is two miles
distant, ma'am, on the other side of these
rocks, and the fishing hamlet is half a mile
beyond that. This pathway, after winding
upwards a little way, descends to a sandy
hollow, in which, so far as I know, are

only two cottages. A ridge of low rocks
stretches out from this hollow, and on these
rocks stands the old lighthouse."

It was not a tempting prospect, this, of
having to follow this steep, narrow pathway
without lantern or guide.

"If I could leave my horses, ma'am,"
began the man.

But at this moment a light shone in
gradual approach along the road they had
just quitted. It suggested to Madge the
cheering possibility of a local guide.

To save time, she advanced to meet the
light, and found it to be a big lantern
carried by a man of about sixty years of
age, clad in the rough serge of a fisherman.

In addition to his lantern he carried a
basket and sundry bundles, which seemed
to suggest the likelihood that he was returning
from a day's marketing in a
neighbouring village.

VOL. III. p

He stopped at the unwonted sight of a
lady and post-horses.

Madge accosted him, and stated her
business in a breath.

*'I want to get to the other side of these
rocks," she said. "Is there any one called
Harold Svenson living there ? Does he live
in the old lighthouse, or at one of the two
cottages which I am told are in the hollow
below here ? "

Fortunately the man was able to give
her the information she wanted. He lived
in one of those two cottages, he said, and
Harold Svenson lived in the other, using
the old lighthouse simply as an observatory.


'And a mighty lot of queer things he
has put i' the light-room, ma'am," he went
on to say. 'telescopes  Lord ha' mercy
on us !  that show what's going on i' the
moon, an' clocks that ha' insides to them

big ermff to lie clown in ; and tell the time,
they do, in such outlandish fashion that
nobody can understand them."

It was easy to secure the services of the
old man as guide, so Madge at once dismissed
the postboy and his horses, exacting
from him the promise that, in consideration
of the handsome fee she had paid him, he
would not take his horses back to Elstree
that night, but would put up at the village
on the farther side of Cregan's Head.

A fitful gleam of moonlight enabled her
to look at her watch once more. It was
just three minutes past the half-hour. The
Count must be getting dangerously near to
Elstree now.

The old fisherman grew loquacious as
they trudged along the rocky path. He
took the weather side, putting Madge under
shelter of the rocks. Every now and then
the rush of the wind carried his voice away,

r 2

and she could only get at his long speeches
in snatches.

He had been a fisherman all his life, he
said ; his name was Thomas Cundy  he
pronounced it " Lammas County "  he
hadn't a big boat now, but just a little
cockle-shell of a thing that he had made
for himself. He lived all alone in his little
cottage ; his wife was dead ; his daughters
were married. He "did" for himself;
made his own clothes

But here Madge interrupted him, her
impatience refusing to be longer restrained.

Had Harold Svenson lately had a
young lady  a foreigner  as a visitor ? "
she asked.

The old man nodded.

A young laddie, yes. Some souk wud
ha' called her a witch." Here a prolonged
shake of the head did duty for a sentence.
"No one scarce had heard her open her

lips, and he was told she had come from
they outlandish foreign parts where people
didn't know decent English wavs."

As they had talked, their path had been
sloping downwards. A black chasm of a
hollow lay at their feet, out of which a
curl of red smoke, puffed this way and that
way by the wind, showed where a human
habitation stood.

Cundy nodded to it.

"That's fro' my chimney," he said.
"Svenson an' his wife ha' been abed the
last half-hour."

In bed," repeated sledge, dismayed at
the possibility of having to arouse the old
couple before she could get speech with
Etelka.

They were standing on a ledge just over
Cundy's hut. On the other side of the
hollow, at about the same level, a dark
square blot indicated Svenson's cottage.

From top to bottom of it not a glimmer of
light was to be seen. Looking seawards,
Madge could make out a black line about
sixty yards out at sea  a ridge of sunken
rocks, no doubt, for there, out of a mist of
dashing spray, arose the gaunt outline of
the disused lighthouse.

The old man nodded towards it.

*' She's there  the strange young woman,"
he said, *' she's not gone to bed, like other
Christian souk."

"What!" cried Madge, aghast, "she's
alone there this terrible night ! "

It's her own doing  nobody could
keep her indoors. You see Svenson had
her here to help him wi' his books and lookup
at the stars for him  he's gone blind
you know  but directly he set her there to
look through his telescope he couldn't get
her wa' fro' it. She crouches over the fire
i' the day time i' the lower room, and so

soon as the sun sets, she goes up to the
light-room and stares at the stars and says
her prayers to them as if they were living
things. Svenson won't get his book done
if he waits for her help I'm thinking.
Here we are, ma'am, at Svenson's door.
Shall I knock the old people up ? "

Madge thought awhile. Why disturb
them ? Her mission was to Etelka and
Etelka only.

She pointed to the gaunt tower with
the white-crested waves dashing furiously
against it.

Can I get there to-night, will your
boat take fne ? " she asked.

Cundy shook his head. " Better wait
till mornen, ma'am," he said. " The wind
is gay bad. There are some nasty sharp
rocks between this an' the lighthouse ; you
might walk across to it in fair weather
scarce wetting your feet ; but i' the dark

with this sea 1 " and again he shook his
head.

But Madge had not come all these miles
to be turned back by the first glimpse of
danger. She determined to be lavish with
her gold again.

Listen," she said. *' I am a rich
woman. FlI give you twenty  thirty
pounds if you'll take me across to that
lighthouse in your little boat."

The man hesitated a moment, then he
shook his head again. " Na, na'' he said.
'I'm a Christian man, and I've a soul to
be sait. I would na risk your life, my
laddie, for thirty pounds. If it were only
my ain " here he broke off.

It will be at my own risk," said Madge,
'not yours. See, I will give you forty 
fifty  sixty pounds if you'll just row me
across that little bit of water ! "

"That little bit of water ! " The phrase

but ill represented the sixty yards of wild
sea which lay between them and the lighthouse.


Possibly the prospect of so large a
recompense made the old man feel a little
less like ** a Christian man with a soul to
be sait," for after muttering something
which the racket of wind and wave
prevented Madge hearing, he bade her
wait there in a sheltered corner of the
beach while he ran his boat out and saw
what he could do.

Minutes seemed to prolong themselves
to hours while Madge stood there with
that gloomy lighthouse facing her. Once
more she pulled out her watch  the hands
pointed to five minutes to eight ; the
Count by this time, most likely, had
covered three parts of the road which lay
between Elstree and Cregan's Head. Heaven
grant that he might miss his way in the

dark, and iigain and again have to retrace
Lis steps !

And it so chanced that exactly at the
moment that the dark figure of old Cundy,
dragging his boat behind him, appeared on
the beach, Lance, with a heavy heart, was
pulling up at a road-side inn, half-way
between Carstairs and Cregan's Head, with
his horse hopelessly lamed by a big boulder
lying in the dark road.

Before she got into that boat, Madge
had a request to make.

"After you've taken me across that
little bit of water," she said, trying to
keep up her grand show of courage, " shall
you come back here with your boat, or
will you stay all night at the lighthouse ? "

The old man jerked his head towards
his hut, where the dull light of a peat fire
showed through one window.

I've just put a bit o' bacon on th' peat
for my supper ; it'll want turned by the
time I get back," he said, deeming that an
all-sufficient answer.

Madge again thanked Heaven for her

gold. 'listen," she said. *' As I told
you before, I am a rich woman, and. I don't
mind spending my money when I want a
thing done. I am Mrs. Cohen from Upton
Castle ; do you know me by name ? "

Cundy nodded. Madge's name, as local
benefactress, was known all over the
county.

*every well. Do you wish to earn a
hundred pounds by this night's work ? "

A hundred pounds ! "

Yes, I will give you that, if, so soon as
you get back here, you will stave in your
boat  before you turn your bacon even."

The old man gave a sorrowful look at
his boat.

I've had un a long time, it's like a
living thing to me  but still  a hundred
pounds 's a goodish bit of money  yes, I'll
do it, never fear, my laddie."

And," Madge went on, "soon after

you get back, a man  a gentleman  will
possibly find his way to your list and want
you to help him get across to the lighthouse.
You must give him no help whatever.
Remember, I have bought your
services until the morning. Promise me
that not a soul shall cross after me to the
lighthouse before then."

The old man was profuse in his promises
and protestations.

Directly he had taken his old boat to
pieces, he said, he would turn in, put out
his fire and all lights, and then not a soul
would find out his hut under the shadow
of the shedding rocks. As for Svenson,
supposing the gentleman succeeded in finding
him out, he would be unable to afford
any help, for he owned to nothing in the
shape of a boat.

Madge's courage nearly gave way when
she and Cundy were fairly launched on

that little bit of water." She could
never, at her best, boast of much physical
courage, and now what with her rapid
travelling, and the excitement she had gone
through that day, she was beginning to
feel far from her best. She hid her eyes
with her hand, and sat shivering in the
stern of the little boat as it bravely mounted
crest after crest of the furious waves.
Every moment she expected they would
be dashed to pieces against some sharp,
jutting crag of that low ridge of rocks,
which stretched away from the beach to
the lighthouse.

The old man, however, knew his ground,
and kept as straight a course as wind and
wave would let him. He had not battled
with the elements on that coast for jSfty
years for nothing.

As they neared the lighthouse, the dull,
red glare of a fire showed through a high.

narrow slit which served for a window.
The old man directed Madge's attention toit,
exclaiming that, " they surrenders were
nowt without a fire."

Madge drew her hands from her eyes to
find that the boat had reached the foot of
a flight of steps, which had been let down
from another window below the narrow
slit to meet the exigencies of the high tide ;
ingress and egress being no longer possible
through the door of the lowest room.

The boat tossed now high on top of a
wave, now low in its trough. Drenched to
the skin and half-blinded with spray, it
was with difficulty, and many a misgiving,
that Madge scrambled out of the boat
and gained the topmost of that flight of
steps.

Push the wooden flap  it opens on th'
inside  it's nowt but a shutter," shouted
the old man ; and then his boat was tossed

away in the darkness, and the rest of his
words were lost to her.

Madge, in haste, pushed back the flap
and crept in, fearful lest the next puff of
wind might whirl her away like a leaf into
the blackness beyond.

For a moment, as she stood within, she
could hear nothing  see nothing  for the
outside racket of the gale still filled her
ears, and she had brought into the lights
with her a rush of breeze which
sent the smoke from the peat fire that
burned upon the hearth, whirling in all
directions, and obscured the sullen gleam
of the firelight. Other lioht there was
none.

Presently those clouds of smoke parted,
and Madge could make out that the room
in which she stood was. lofty, but circumscribed
at the farther end by a flight of
steps, which wound away upward into darkness.

The lowest steps also were begirt
with shadows and whirling wreaths of
smoke. Out of those cloudy wreaths a
pair of large, luminous eyes seemed for a
moment to look out at her and then disappeared.
The haze of the smoke made
everything uncertain ; but she could feel the
silent presence of Etelka Mclvor, though
her eyes failed to assure her of the fact.
Mado;e thought of the last time that she
had seen those large, desolate eyes, and her
-couraore beo-an to fail her. She felt that she
must speak or succumb as to a spell.

"Are you there, Miss Mclvor? I am
Mrs. Cohen.* I have come to speak to you
on an urgent matter," she said, in a voice
which even to her own ears sounded
strangely.

Then, from out the smoke wreaths and
shadows at the farther end of the room the
tall, slender figure of Etelka slowly advanced

VOL. III. Q

and came to a standstill within two yards
of Madge.

Madge stretched out her hands by way
of greeting.

Forgive me if I am abrupt," she said ;
"but time is precious to-night."

Etelka did not speak, did not take the
proffered hands, and Madge bethought her
of other things beside abruptness for which
she ought to beg forgiveness.

She let her hands fall to her side.

I do not wonder that you will not
shake hands with me," she said, sadly. " I
did you a grievous wrong once  I have
come travelling to you to-night, in the dark
and in the storm, to try and undo that
wrong  to make amends for it, if amends
are possible."

Etelka drew a step nearer. The smoke,
carried by the current, was making its way
now for the aperture which served as

chimney. The red gleam of the fire threw
a fitful light across the gloom, and Madge
could get a clearer view of the girl's face.
Madge thought that she had learnt to know
that face ; she had seen it rigid and white
as carven marble ; she had seen it soften
and glow as might a carven marble statue
flushing into warm life ; she had seen it
brilliantly beautiful, radiant with hope, as
on the night of the ball ; and she had seen
it darkened with its forlornness and despair
before that night had come to an end.
But the face which confronted her now
was none of these.

Jael, who drove the tent peg into the
tired Sisera's forehead, might have had
much such a face," Madge had said to herself
on the first day that she and Etelka
had met. Now, if time had been given
her to put her thoughts into words, she
would have said :

Q 2

Jael, with a deed of blood in her past,
turned prophetess, priestess, seer, might
have much such a look as that in her eyes.
Is she looking at me or at things in the
room which I do not see ? Is she talking
to me now or answering voices which I
do not hear ? "

The last thought was caused by Etelka
saying in slow, low tones :

''I knew it would come to-night. I said
to myself: 'I may shut myself up here
alone, and the winds may make the waves
my jailors ; all the same, my fate will find
me out.' And lo, it comes travelling tome
in the darkness and storm ! "

Madge's heart sank. This was the
woman she wished to inspire with energy
to fight a pursuing evil in the strength of
an encompassing love !

If fate is finding you out to-night,"
she said, trying her utmost to speak out

bravely, "it must be a glad and happy
fate, for I come as a messenger of glad
tidings. Listen, I bring you news of
Lance. He will be here tomorrow morning
 the very first thing I hope  to tell
you all over again how truly he loves you,
and how that it was only in seeming that
he gave you up, when he thought  as
we all did  that you had  died  at
Liverpool."

She faltered over the concluding words.
But it was impossible to avoid abruptness.
Necessity was laid upon her to say all that
she had to say rapidly. In truth, she
thought little of the manner of her speech
in her eagerness to unfold to Etelka's
view the bright things the future might
have in store for her, before she told the
evil tidings of Count Palliardini, his
threats and pursuit.

But it seemed as if Madge might as well

have shouted her good tidings to the stonewalls
which shut them in, as into Etelka's
ears, for, still as a statue the girl stood,
with her large, dreamy eyes looking beyond,
not at, the flushed, eager face which confronted
hers.

Madge lost her self-control. She sprang
forward, seizing both Etelka's hands in
hers, and crying out impetuously :

Oh, if one came to me, bringing the
glad news I bring to you, I would not
stand as you do, saying never a word ! I
would go down into the very dust and kiss
the feet of the messenger, and then I would
jump up and clap my hands and shout for
joy ! Do you not understand me ? I come
from Lance, as Lance's messenger."

Something of animation shone in the
cold, pale face.

'you come as Lance's messenger, do
you say ? " she said, in the same slow tones

as before; "then take a message back
from me to him. Tell him that since I
saw him last a revelation has come to me 
the stars have taught me things that they
never taught me before."

' Ob, do not talk of the stars now,"
broke in Madge, impetuously.

Etelka held up her hand.

Hush," she said, " you are a messenger,
you say, therefore you must take
as well as bring a message. Promise me
you will."

'' I promise," answered Madge, strangely
impressed with the solemnity of Etelka's
manner. It' might have been that of a
person, who, about to depart on a very
long journey, gives minute and special
directions as to what is to be done during
his absence.

"Say to him," Etelka went on, "that,
since I have been here in this lonely place,

I-have spent hours looking up at the star
through a grand telescope, and things have
changed to me. Tell him I have seen the
houses of life in the heavens, and I have
seen the house of death ; but I have seen
something else which has made life and
death fade into nothingness. I have seen
Eternity there  immeasurable time, immeasurable
space. Tell him that  promise
me!"

''I promise," answered Madge, a sense
of awe creeping over her, for Etelka's
manner recalled now less that of a person
about to depart on a long journey, than
that of one about to undertake the longest
journey of all  that journey from which
there is no return.

There fell a pause. Outside sounded the
solemn antiphony of wind, calling to wave,
wave answering to wind ; within, those two
women might have heard each breath the

other drew as they stood silently facing
each other in the dim light.

Madge felt that she had succumbed to
Etelka's strange powers of fascination, as
well as to the weirdness of the scene, and
had but ill done her work. Why should she,
indeed, consent to carry Etelka's messages
to Lance, when  as she hoped  he would
be here on the morrow, and receive them
for himself ? One half, also, of her mission
remained unfulfilled ; her bad news had
yet to be told  perhaps it might make a
deeper impression than her good appeared
to have done  so, making a great effort,
she broke the silence, and said :

*' There is some one else I must speak to
you about besides Lance ; for he, also, is on
his way to you to-night  some one whom
you have no reason to love."

Etelka started, a change of expression
passing over her face.

'count Palliarclini ? " she exclaimed,
under her breath.

Madge's reply was cut off by a heavy
and prolonged puff of wind, which must
have sent the sea dashing over the top of
the lighthouse ; it set the wooden flap,
which served at once as window and
shutter, rattling as if it where being shaken
on the outside by a human hand.

Madge's fancy instantly conjured up a
vision of Count Palliardini having succeeded
somehow in obtaining a boat, and
now standing outside on the steps seeking
means of entry. She bethought her of the
possibility of fastening down that wooden
flap.

Is there bolt or fastening: to it ? " she
asked, at the same time crossing to the
window to ascertain for herself what means
of securing it could be improvised.

Etelka followed her. Madge pushed back

the flap, and looked out into the darkness,
in order to assure herself that her fears
were groundless.

The salt spray dashed in her face, the
wind sang in her ears. Clouds were
scudding rapidly over the face of the wan
moon. Not a light was to be seen on the
shore in either cottage, and the red curl of
smoke from Cundy's fire had disappeared ;
so Madge dismissed her fears, concluding
that the old man had kept and meant to
keep his promise to her.

A dark mass of cloud at that moment
separating, a fuller stream of light poured
down from' the faint moon ; a receding
wave also for a brief space left the air free
from spray, and Madge could get a clearer
view of the beach. In that brief space
she saw something else beside the black
outlines of coast and cliff  the figure of a
man standing just where she had stood

waiting for Cundy to bring his boat round.
Then clouds swept over the moon once
more, and sea and shore became again one
dark expanse.

Madge knew that Etelka must have seen
that man's figure as clearly as she had. She
let fall the wooden shutter, and turned
impetuously to the girl, taking both her
hands in her own.

"Do not fear," she cried, *' he can't get
to us to-night. Cundy, at my request,
has staved in his boat, and there is no
other. And tomorrow Lance will be 
must be here ! "

Etelka's hands were cold and trembling ;
her breathing came thick and fast.

He will come  he will be here presently,"
she said, in low, hurried tones.
I know that man ; he will lose his life 
his soul  but let go his purpose  never ! "

Madge noted with thankfulness that the

girl did not say now, as she had so often
before, " It is fate  I bow to it."

'' I tell you it is impossible  impossible,"
Madge repeated, '' for him to get here till
the tide runs out, which will not be till
morning. Oh, Etelka, have you no courage ?
How can you be so faint-hearted, when you
have true and strong friends to take care of
you, and such a bright future before you ! "

All Etelka's reply was to free her hands
from Madge's clasp, lift the wooden shutter,
and peer out into the darkness once more.

And this is what they saw when, after
a moment's waiting, the faint moonlight
again filtered through the drifting clouds
the man standing on precisely the same
spot on the beach, throwing ofthis heavy
overcoat and boots, and tightening and
drawing together his other garments. He
meant to swim.

He, the dandy who carried a pocketbook,

who had hands whiter than a
woman's, and fit for no rougher work than
the twanging of a guitar, was going to
dare death in the darkness rather than
defer his purpose by even a few hours.

A low cry escaped Etelka's lips.

Madge threw her arms around her.

"Promise me," she cried, "that you
will not be frightened by his threats ;
that you will say ' No ' to his entreaties !
Think of Lance now on his road to you !
Think of all the happiness that lies waiting
for you ! "

Etelka freed herself from Madge's arms.

He will drown ! " she said, in a strained,
unnatural tone. "He will be dashed to
pieces against the low ridge of rocks in the
darkness ! "

Even as she spoke black masses of clouds
rolled up from the horizon, and the moon
was gone.

She walked away to the fire, which still
burned low on the hearth.

Madge wondered if she were going to
take away the man's one chance by quenching
that fire  it still threw a fitful gleam,
which must have shone in the outside darkness
through the glazed slit in the wall.

But the next moment showed her that
Etelka had another purpose. With her
foot she stirred the embers together, then,
picking up a short pine-bough which lay
on the hearth, she ignited it, and carried
it, a blazing torch, to the window at which
Madge still stood, and passed through it
on to the outside wooden steps.

The life which she had once before
attempted to destroy she would now do her
utmost to save.

To the last hour of her life Madge never
lost the vision of that tall, slender figure
in shadowy, gray garments standing out

there in the windy darkness, with flaming
torch held hio-h above her head. The wind
tossed her black hair in disorder about her
shoulders : the torch threw fitful lio-ht on the
beautiful white face, with wide-open, desolate
eyes, and mouth slowly settling into hard,
rigid lines.

Not a second Hero assuredly ! For the
priestess of Venus lighted the man she loved
across the dark waters, but this woman the
man she hated.

And as Madge stood dumbly gazing at
her, there came a sudden terrific blast which
seemed to shake the lighthouse to its very
foundations, and turned the solemn antiphony
of wind and wave into one wild
turmoil of rushing, dashing sound and fury,
as of some fiend-orchestra let loose upon
creation.

The wooden shutter was wrenched from
Madge's hand, the embers of the peat fire

were swept from the hearth, and the room
for a moment seemed filled with whirling
clouds of smoke and salt spray, which came
rushing in through the now unsheltered
window.

Something else fell upon Madge's ear
beside the roar of the gale and the dash of
the waves  a human cry, a crash, and then
a great stillness, which seemed something
other than the sudden lulling of the wind.

And when, half-blinded with smoke and
spray, and with a great terror at her heart,
Madge ventured once more to peer out
into the darkness, no slender figure holding
high a flaring torch was to be seen, nor
dark form battling with the angry waves ;
all that met her eye was the great, black,
desolate expanse of furious ocean ; nothing
else.

'' I did my best. Lance, for you  for

VOL. III. R

her' said Madge, as she ended the terrible
story which, with quivering lips and many
a halt, she told him on the morrow.

But Lance stood looking at her, saying
never a word, struck into silence, not only
by the greatness of the tragedy, but by
the magnitude of Madge's love for him,
which, until that moment, he had never
measured.

Six telegrams from Sir Peter Critchett :

No. 1.  To the Eev. Joshua Parker,
Chadwick Coal Pits, Durham :

I know you will be glad to hear that
the marriage of my adopted son and Mrs.
Cohen  delayed a year ago  took place this
morning. Excuse haste ; my hands are
very full."

No. 2. To Mrs. Lancelot Clive, Hotel
des Anglais, Nice :

So glad you remembered to send Lady
Judith the patent incubators from Paris.
I start at once for Pedestal to see that
things are going on all right there."

No. 3.  To same :

"Arrived safely at Pedestal. Lovely
weather."

"No. 4.  To same :

'glad I came here. Lots of things
want seeing to. The weather-cock on the
top of the village church has stuck at
north-east."

No. 5.  To Lancelot Olive, Esq., Hotel
des Anglais, Nice :

Forgot to tell you I went to see
Stubbs, at Millbank, the other day. Poor
fellow  truly penitent  must look after
him when he comes out."

No. 6.  To same :

"Don't let Madge worry about the
weather-cock, I'll have it set going before
you get back. Will telegraph again tomorrow."


