CHAPTEE I.

MRT lay in a deep, shadowy hollow, a
Wfj forlorn, God-forgotten house to look
at. Like the Grange of poetic legend,
it was surrounded by a moat, but it could
not be said of it, as of the ill-fated Mariana's
abode, that around " for leagues no
tree did mark the waste," for it was
backed by a dark, thick wood of most
ancient growth. Plas-y-coed the old house
was called by the people in the district ;
The Grange was the name by which it
was as a rule distinguished by the Eeeces,
in whose family, with its acres of park
and arable land, it had been for general.
i. 1

tions, passing in steady, unbroken line
from heirs male to heirs male.

Beyond the background of dark wood
rose the blue mountains of Llanniswth,
peak over peak in all their sharp, lonely
grandeur. Down their rough, cleft sides
rushed ceaselessly the cataracts, which
fertilised the deep-growing trees of the
ancient wood. The air was always humid,
a greys mist seemed ever hanging about.
The lichen on the old walls, the marish
mosses which fringed the paths, had
reached an almost tropical luxuriance ; the
stone-paved terrace was absolutely slippery
with the minute vegetation which grew
in every crevice between the flags.

I say, old fellow," cried Oscar Eeece,
coming down the five steps which led from
the house with a spring and a bound,
you should turn in an army of gardeners
here ; our lives are not safe, a coroner's inquest
will be the end of it  that's a fact."

Worfcin Eeece, standing on the terrace
with a sealed letter in his hand, paid

no heed to the speaker. He was elder
brother by about a dozen years to Oscar,
and is the present master of The Grange.

Where is my mother ? " he asked, and
getting Oscar's reply, "In the breakfast -
room," he opened a little door leading off
the terrace and went into the house.

Within, the house was as desolate as
it was without. It abounded in lonsr,
winding passages, and small, low-ceiled
rooms. The breakfast - room, with the
morning sun upon it, was possibly the
cheeriest and best lighted of these. When
Wolfgang turned the handle and went in,
it seemed full of the chequered sunlight
which fell through the beech-trees rowimr
close  too close for health one would
think  to the casement window. An
elderly lady was seated in a huge armchair
with knitting-needles in her hand ;
a big, brown mastiff lay at her feet, and
formed her footstool. Her head was large
and well-set, her features good, but too
massive to suit conventional ideas of female

12

beauty. Her hair was white as snow, her
complexion clear and pale. The least
exact of observers might have identified
these two as mother and son. Wolfgang
had the same large, well-set head, and
regular, massive features. Her hair must
have been fair as his in her early youth,
her eyes possibly as deep a grey, and as
clear and bright as his, though now, alas !
dim and glazed with premature disease
which was slowly but surely ending in
total blindness.

When they spoke their voices had the
same clear, strong vibration.

Here's a letter, mother," he said, " with
an Indian stamp on it. Shall I read it to
you?"

"An Indian stamp ! " she repeated. " I
only know of one person in India likely to
write to me  Colonel Wynne, my mother's
third cousin. But it's seven or eight years
at least since we last corresponded. Yes,
read it, Wolf."

It was from Colonel Wynne. The first

page of the letter was given up to congratulations.


4; I heard quite by chance," he wrote, " of
Wolf coining into the Welsh property.
From the bottom of my heart I congratulate
you all. It was an odd thing poor
Bernard Eeece dying so suddenly. Only
twenty-seven, wasn't he? That trip to Bermuda
was a wild thing for a man to undertake
without any rhyme or reason. However,
it has brought good fortune to yon
and yours, so we won't moan over it. Now
I am writing to ask a special favour of you,
Elizabeth. Will you take my little girl,
Judith, under your wing, for the next two
years ? As you know, she has been
brought up in France with her mother's
people. When my Melanie died, Judith
went to live with her aunt and uncle at St.
Andre. That was ten years ago, and I have
not seen her since. Well, the aunt was a
strict Presbyterian, the uncle a Catholic
priest, an odd commingling of influence to
place a child under, was it not ? All I

begged of them was not to interfere with her
religious opinions. I don't think they have,
for' she writes to me that she has never
failed in her attendance at a Protestant place
of worship. The aunt has just died, and as
I do not like the idea of her staying on
with the priest, I shall be very grateful to
you if you will take her into your home,
give her an insight, as it were, into an English
household, till I can return to England
and make one for her. In two years' time
T hope to be able to do this, but not before.
I know of no one in England but yourself
of whom I could ask this favour."

Oscar had come into the room during
the reading of this letter. He now burst
forth exuberantly :

A girl coming to stay with us ? How
awfully jolly ! Mother, of course you'll say
yes. It would be downright cruel to refuse
to take her in. I hope she'll be a good
specimen. Of course, Wolf, you'll have
the old place made habitable now ? "

Mrs. Eeece laid down her knitting.

44 Let me see, Oscar," she said meditatively
: "Judith Wynne is just nineteen,
you are just twenty. Ah, you will be
safe enough. Nothing under five-and-twenty
would suit you at the present
moment. Wolf is in the greater danger,
he is turned thirty-one, but still thirty-one
is an age at which a man ought to
be able to take care of himself."

44 Yes, if he is ever going to," said
Wolf, laying down the letter and walking
towards the door.

44 1 say," shouted Oscar after him,
 : you'll see about the repairs at once,
won't you ? "

But to this Wolf made no reply.

i-WY

;Y*yjR01[ whatever cause it might arise,
yjj I the fact remained that no sound of
workman's hammer nor gardener's
hoe broke the silence which, like the
mountain mist, seemed perpetually to overhang
the old Grange.

Judith Wynne, as she drove up the
weedy road leading to the old house,
thought in all her life she had never set
eves upon a more hopelessly desolate and
forlorn-looking habitation.

The neat, pretty French home she had
just quitted was still photographed vividly
on her brain. She shut her eyes, and
once more it rose up before her as on
the morning when she had looked her last

good-bye to it  a square, white-fronted
villa, in the streaming June sunlight,
long-windowed, with pretty green veranda
which ran the length of its frontage, and
was broken here and there by the big
orange-trees in tubs, and pink-flowered
oleanders. A house, in fact, giving every
outward sign of neat housewifery and
careful keeping. She opened her eyes,
and, lo ! there stood before her a long,
low, damp-looking building, grey with
the lichen that hung about its eaves,
green in patches with the smaller-growing
mosses, its wood-work bronzed and blistered,
its windows uncurtained, its frontage
unwept. The contrast between the two
homes  the one which her memory held
and the one which faced her  was keen.
It set her shuddering, and it set her
thinking.

Wolf and Oscar had met her at Pen-lewellyn,
the little station seven miles from
The Grange, and had driven her home.

It was a long drive. The June sun was
at its highest, and Wolf had apologised for
the open carriage he had brought for her.

We have no other," he had said simply.
Oscar's fair, boyish face had flushed crimson
as he spoke.

Judith, looking from one to the other,
thought she had never seen two brothers
more unlike in form and feature.

He will be handsome in ten years'
time," she had said to herself, taking stock
of Oscar's bronzed hair, blue eyes, and fine,
though slight figure. "And he will bean
old man in ten years' time," she had
thought as her eye rested on Wolf's stooping
shoulders, the grey that showed here
and there on his brown hair and beard,
the deep, knotted frown which drew his
brows together and made his dark eyes
seem sunken and dim.

Oscar kept cheerful talk going as they
drove along the flinty road. It necessarily
had to be talk on general topics,
for they were strangers, one to the other,

in all but name. Judith knew but little of
these distant cousins of hers. She had
heard some seven or eight years previously
of the death of their father, a
hard-working East of London clergyman,
who had taken typhus-fever from one of
his poor parishioners, and had died at his
post. She had heard that his mantle had
fallen on his son Wolfgang, and that he
had worked as hard as a curate as his
father had as a rector. Whispers had also
reached her, though she scarcely knew
how true they were, of hardship and
poverty which the widow had been called
upon to endure ; of the death by fever
of all her children, save the eldest and
youngest ; of the gradual, though certain
loss of her own eyesight. All this
Judith had heard in a far-off roundabout
sort of way from time to time, and
she had listened to it much as she would
have listened to anyone telling her of
changes in the government of Australia

c CD

or Japan, a sort of something altogether

outside her little circle of living interests.
Then, quite unexpectedly, there had
come to her news in a more direct
fashion from her father, telling her of the
change in the fortunes of these people,
of their sudden accession to comparative
wealth and importance through the death
of Bernard Eeece. With this news Colonel
Wynne had coupled the wish that, for a
time at any rate, Judith should make her
home with these distant relatives.

It seemed odd to the girl to have her
life thus suddenly linked to the family life
of these strangers. She could scarcely
realise the fact, even as she drove along
the lonely Welsh road with the two
brothers. It seemed to her almost
incredible that her bright, beautiful,
tranquil French life was altogether a
thing of the past, that for the next
two years at any rate her days
were to be passed among people of
whom she knew little more than the
names.

Mrs. Reece gave the young girl a
kindly greeting.

I wish I could see your face, my dear,"
she said, " that I might see whether
there is anything of your father in you."

She had not learnt that quick, light
touch which comes naturally to the
born-blind, and which conveys to them
likeness of feature as well as knowledge
of colour. Poor soul ! her blindness had
struck her too late in life for that. She
was obliged to trust to one or other of
her sons for her impressions of the outer
world.

Later on in the day, when Judith had
gone to her room to rest, tired out with
her long journey, Mrs. Reece, hearing
Oscar over his fishing-tackle, asked him
to come and tell her what the new comer
was like, and what he thought of her.
Oscar gave a low whistle.

Oh, well, she's  she's just so  nothing
more. That's what I think of her."

"Unintelligible, as usual, Oscar," said

his mother ; " try to put your meaning
into plain English, for my special benefit."

Ton my life I can't, mother. She's
just so  nothing more. I can't say she
is what she isn't."

kt But you can tell me whether she is
tall or short, ugly or pretty, fair or dark,
I suppose."

No ; I don't think she's anything of
all that; she's what I said, 'just so,'
and nothing will make anything else of
her."

So ! "  Mrs. Eeece had passed her
early days in Germany, and had brought
back with her a fondness for this monosyllable
together with a love for knitting-pins.
" Is Wolf there ? Ask him to come
to me."

And Wolf coming had the questions
repeated to him. What was Judith like,
and what did he think of her ?

He answered slowly and thoughtfully :

She is small, and slight, with dark
hair, pale face, and very dark eyes. She

speaks little, but I should imagine thinks
a great deal. I should say she was fond
of poetry and that sort of thing, not of
the realities of life."

"Stop stop, Wolf; that will do. I
didn't ask for a rhapsody. Ah, I can
see which of you two boys will want
keeping out of harm's way''

If she could have seen the sudden dark
cloud that swept over Wolfss face, she
would not have hazarded her light
words.

Oscar saw it and sought to effect a
diversion.

Why, mother ! " he cried, " after seven
years of a curate's life, with all the
women in the parish shooting at him, do
you think Wolf will fall a victim to the
first little dark girl who comes into the
house ? "

The old lady shook her head wisely.

64 Ah," she answered, " Cupid takes
some with darts, and some with traps.
Look to yourself, Wolf, that's all."

jEXT to the keen eye which pierces
g straight to the heart of things,
the clear eye for an outline is
perhaps one of the most blessed gifts a manor
woman can be dowered with. It keeps
the senses mystified by the small, pressing,
multitudinous details of everyday life, the
brain free to take in ct the situation "
whatever it may be, the hand ready and
strong for action.

Judith had possessed this clear, true
eye for an outline in a remarkable degree
from childhood upwards. Wolf, describing
her to his mother, had credited her
with a poetic temperament ; never their,
others spring her from their point of view,

had been wont to speak of her as a
remarkably practical, matter-of-fact person.
Both descriptions were true ; the two
temperaments are not irreconcilable, whatever
some superficial thinkers may say.

Be this as it may, Judith had not been
a week in the old Grange before she
said to herself as she noted Wolfss
gloomy, abstracted ways, the manifest yet
unsuccessful efforts he made to be one
with the rest of the household : " That
man has suffered." Before the end of a
second week she had appended a rider
to her verdict, which ran thus : " He is
suffering now." At the close of three
weeks another rider was added to this
effect : " And he has a secret locked up
in his heart."

With Oscar she speedily became on
very good terms. They called each other
by their Christian names before the first
fortnight was over their heads. Their
dispositions, though diverse, harmonised
admirably. Oscar was a good talker,
vol. 1. 2

Juditli a first-rate listener. Oscar loved
a free, outdoor life for the sake of sport
and plentiful bodily exercise, and Judith
loved the fields, the mountains, the woods,
because she had an eye for a landscape, and
a heart that beat in sympathetic response
to every glad sound of bird, beast, or
insect.

Thus it came about that most of the
bright June mornings were passed in
each other's society ; and when, June
ended, Oscar announced the fact that he
was going up to London to stay in the
house of a clergyman, who was to coach
him for matriculation at Oxford, Judith
felt that all the sunshine was leaving
Plas-y-Coed, and wondered what other
companion would be given her for her
morning walks and mountain scrambles.

There was no talk, however, of other
companionship.

"Judith will be dull, I fear," said Wolf
to his mother, a day or two after Oscar
had none.

He called her Judith behind her back ;
Miss Wynne always when addressing
her.

He had watched the young girl go
slowly along the weedy gravel path, and
lean over the mossy gate as though she
were looking longingly across the green
fields to the dark hills beyond.

Mrs. Eeece was pursuing her own
train of thought.

No one but a man or an idiot would
have sent a girl of that age into a house
with two grown-up sons, unless he wanted
her to marry one of them," she said slowly.

Wolf started as if struck by some
sudden idea.

"Judith will be very rich some day.
She is an heiress, is she not ? " he asked
abruptly.

The mother nodded.

"Her father has coined money, I hear,
since he retired from the service. Of
course, as she is an only child, it must
all go to her. Then, too, her mother's

22

money is settled on her. She was Melanie
Maclvor Tertre, half Scotch, half French.
She and her sister  Judith's aunt, lately
dead  were both strict Presbyterians. The
brother followed his father's faith, and
became a priest. Of course his money will
go to the Church, but the aunt's money
has been carefully tied up for Judith when
she comes of age."

"It's a thousand pities Oscar isn't ten
years older," said Wolf dreamily.

The mother laughed outright.

What, are you turning matchmaker,
Wolf? You are coming out in a new
character with a vengeance. She would
suit you ever so much better than Oscar."

Wolf did not hear her ; he had taken
his hat and followed Judith down the
garden-path.

She was leaning over the gate, half-thinking,
half-dreaming, in that disjointed,
hazy sort of way girls of nineteen are
given to. Her heart at first had been full
of sweet, sad memories of the dear dead aunt

as she had leaned over the gate, but oneby
one they had been chased away by
the glad, bright realities about her  the
flooding sunshine, the gloriously blue sky,
the fresh greenness of field and woodland,
the summer-scented breeze and soft air.

A shadow fell across her as she stood.
She started, and turned to see Wolf at her
elbow. She had not heard his footfall on
the path. Somehow the mere approach of this
grave, stern man always seemed to send a
chill through her. She could never think of
him as parish priest, pastor and shepherd of
his flock ; she could picture him rather as
one of the soldier-priests of old time, leading
on his host, crozier in one hand, falchion
in the other, and crying aloud in his deep,
strong voice : " Strike, and smite, and let
not one of them escape ! "

Let us go for a walk," he said, opening
the gate as he spoke ; "it's too hot for
climbing, but the woods will be pleasant."

Judith would rather he had said : " Will
you like to <io for a walk?" His air of

command offended her. For one thing, she
was not used to it  a gentle, unvarying
courtesy had ever been the order of the
day in her French home. However, she
raised no objection, so to the woods
they went.

You miss Oscar, of course ? " he
said, going on before her through the
rough tangle of briar and long grass so as
to make her path a little clear for her.

The dear bright bov ! Yes : of course
I do," answered Judith warmly, and with
a frankness that scattered the feeble hopes
Wolf had conjured up to the four winds
of heaven.

Nevertheless he persevered.

"Is he such a boy?" he questioned.
"He's nearly twenty. I was a man  I
had to be a man when I was but little
older than he."

<; Ah, you might be a man at twenty,
I doubt very much if Oscar will be one
much before he's thirty ! "

Yes, circumstances count for something,"

he said in a tone that had a
tone] 1 of bitterness in it.

Then for five minutes they walked on
together in silence.

It might be he was thinking of the
hard times he had lived through as
curate on a hundred and fifty pounds a
year, and when that sum, added to a
hundred pounds annuity of his mother's,
was the total from which their household
wants had had to be supplied.

Judith guessed whither his thoughts
were tending. Oscar had been very confidential
with her as to the past experiences
of his family in the East of London.
She hastened to change the subject.

Oscar will feel strange shut up in
London after the open-air life he has led
here ! Is he a good student ? " she asked.
She knew in her own heart that the
answer must be in the negative, if Wolf
answered truly.

Oscar is not a good student," he said.
But, Miss Wynne, do you think that

matters? Do you think a man is any

the worse for loving nature better than
books ? A man's mind we all know can
be, and often is, marred by books rather
than made by them. Now nothing
would make a student of Oscar."

No," interrupted Judith laughingly ;
nothing would make a student of Oscar."

"But," pursued "Wolf eagerly, wistfully
almost, it seemed to Judith, " I'll undertake
to say, in five or six years' time,
no one will beat Oscar in honour, in
integrity "

"Or in jumping a five-barred gate,
or in fly-fishing, or fox-hunting ! " again
interrupted Judith.

"In all that goes to make an all-round
good man ; but  but I want him
to be more than this  something over
and above all this  "

Judith here came to a standstill in the
narrow path they were following. Her
dress had caught in the thorns of a low-growing
bramble-bush.

Wolf paused in his talk, but stood
watching her disengage the hem of her
dress without offering assistance.

How surprisingly little there seemed of
the Frenchwoman in this young girl,
naught, indeed, if one excepted the
extreme neatness and daintiness of her
personal appearance. What an odd,
frank way she had of speaking, as though
necessity were .laid upon her to speak
always the exact truth. Yet she was not
fond of talking, never opened her lips, in
fact, unless specially addressed. She must
have read much, thought more, possibly.

All this passed through Wolfss mind ashe
stood silently surveying her.

The dress disentangled, Judith went on
her way again in silence. Wolf took up
his theme once more, but found the difficulties
of expression growing upon him.

As I was saying," he began, " I want
him to be something more than all this.
Can you guess what I mean ? I want him
to be happy, contented, at peace."

Judith's dark eyes, lifted to her companion's
face, expressed her amazement. /

The dear bright boy ! " she cried
again. " Why should he not be happy ? "

Why  why," stammered Wolf ; " why
is it so many of us are not happy ? How
is it so few of us find real, lasting
peace and blessedness ? "

He broke off abruptly. His words
were hurrying him on, whither he knew
not. But it was difficult pleading with
a girl for a suitor whom she persisted in
calling "a dear bright boy." Besides 
and this thought pressed upon him now
for the first time even supposing Judith
should be inclined to look upon Oscar asa
likely suitor, it might be possible Oscar
would not be willing to present himself
in that guise. He must give up the
idea, as of late he had given up so many
other cherished notions.

His next words broke from him with
something of a sigh :

"It is evident, Miss Wynne, that your

lines have been cast in pleasant places.
May God keep your feet always from
rough and thorny paths ! "

Judith turned to face him in her astonishment.
The words seemed somehow wrung
from the very depths of his heart. It
was as though they had been startled out
of him. Yet she could not help feeling-sore
and a little indignant that he should
thus entirely ignore the fact that her crape
had not yet lost its freshness, that she had
sorrowed and suffered, though she had
learnt to bear her pain in silence.

I loved Aunt Maggie passionately,"
she said in a low, quiet voice, " and if I
had had my choice, I would have died
sooner than have left Uncle Pierre alone
in his sorrow."

Wolf caught her meaning in an instant.

Forgive me," he exclaimed, taking her
hand ; " it must have been a terrible
wrench for you to leave your old home
and come among strangers. But those
were outside sorrows, sorrows that came

and were not invited. What I meant
was  "

Again lie broke off and walked on with
quick strides. He seemed to have forgotten
that he still held Judith's hand,
till she gently endeavoured to release it
from his grasp. Then he dropped it as
though it had stung him.

They had now reached the very heart
of the wood. Straight across their path
a brisk rivulet sparkled and rippled. It
was an offshoot from one of the big
cascades, whose rush and tumble of
water went on from morning till night.
Wolf paused, looking down into the little
stream.

'Wash me,' " he murmured, " ' and I
shall be clean.' Once I preached a sermon
on those words." Then suddenly
turning to Judith, he asked her : " Miss
Wynne, do you believe in the possibility
of repentance, of a man whose whole soul
is steeped in sin, ever again becoming
pure, white, and clean ? "

And Judith, looking up in his face,
answered simply :

"I believe in repentance just as I believe
in the resurrection of the dead, the
remaking of the soul as I believe in the
remaking of the body."

And scientists of the present day will
tell you the one thing is as impossible as
the other," he said with a short, abrupt
laugh. Then he turned to her again.
Child, tell me, where did you get your
faith and what is it? Is it Presbyterian
or is it Catholic ? Did you pick it up by
the wayside, or did you hear it thundered
from some pulpit by a man professing
himself to be a servant of God, but
who in heart was the devil's prime
minister ?"

Judith had no answer ready for him.
His words startled and pained her.
What did he  could he mean? He, a
minister of God, a man of full age, asking
her, little more than a child, of her beliefs
and how she got them, just as though

he were seeking wherewith to bolster up
his own !

He did not seem to expect a reply.
He turned his back on her and began
walking rapidly forwards, following the
upward course of the stream.

Judith remained standing where she was.

He has forgotten me," she thought ;
and she also thought, " so much the
better. I will get back to the house
alone; the walk has been long enough."

Suddenly he paused, turned back,
and with slow, irregular footsteps came
towards her. His head was bowed, his
face ashen-white, his brow drawn as
though he were in actual bodily pain.
He took both her hands in his, looking
down in her face.

' And found no place for repentance, '
he said in hoarse, low tones, " ' though
he sought it carefully and with tears.'
Child, how do you explain those words ?
Esau was made of better stuff than most
of us ; he sins once and finds no place

for repentance, though he seeks for it
carefully  carefully, mark you  and with
tears. What have you to say to
that ? "

He seemed to wait with breath suspended
for her answer. He grasped her
hands so tightly that they felt crushed,
bruised. The wood seemed suddenly to
have grown still. From afar came the
tap-tap of a lonely woodpecker.

Her reply came clear and distinct
enough after a moment's pause.

I should say," she answered simply,
that his tears blinded him, and prevented
him finding what he sought. He
should have held out his hand for someone
to help him with eyes and hands."

She spoke, well knowing what she was
saying, anxious only to be of some little
service to one who was so evidently
sorrowing and suffering.

For a moment he stood still, looking
at her, and Judith could feel that he
was trembling from head to foot. His

lips parted as though about to speak,
then closed resolutely. He let go her
hands abruptly ; his face grew hard and
rigid.

"Come, let lis go home," he said in
dry, short tones. " My mother will think
we have lost ourselves in the wood."

They made their way back to the
house almost in perfect silence. Wolf
made no further attempt at conversation,
and Judith was as disinclined for it
as he.

CM IP

- s frfN

R several days after this Wolf
5X"M and Judith saw but little of each
other. It seemed as though by
mutual consent they kept out of each
other's way. A large portion of Wolfss
mornings were of necessity given to an
audience with old Maurice, the land-steward,
who had had the management
of affairs in the old squire's time, and was
loth to let them slip through his fingers
now. This audience took place in a
study, a little den which Wolf had had
temporarily fitted for his use on the
ground-floor.

Here he listened patiently, or at any

rate with iron endurance, to the old man's
vol. i. 3

complaints of the late squire's niggardliness
in money matters, the miserly fashion
in which he had kept up a house that
had once been the pride of the county,
the terrible outbursts that had invariably
attended young Mr. Bernard's applications
(numerous it must be confessed) for money.
The said complaints, however, generally
wound up with a brief doxology to the
old master's memory (on the principle,
possibly, of giving even Lucifer his due).
<; For all that, he was a good master tome,
and I've no occasion to speak ill of
him," and a brief appeal to his present
master, made at first as a matter of course.
but of late somewhat uncertainly and
dubiously : " And I suppose, sir. you'll
be setting the repairs going soon ; it will
take a mint of money to make things as
they ought to be."

But at this point Wolfss iron endurance
seemed invariably to have reached its
limit, for he would rise from his chair
and politely give the old man his cone

with a "That will do this morning,
Maurice ; I think we have got through
enough for to-day."

An equally large portion, however, of
Wolfss time seemed to be passed in the
library, a dark, damp, long room, which
ran the entire length of the darkest,
dampest side of the house.

Here are the products of some
hundreds of dead men's brains, let us
make haste to give them decent burial,"
seems to be the thought in some men's
minds, when they construct their libraries,
and hurry their volumes as last as possible
out of sight and into oblivion. Anyhow.
this library was vault-like enough to have
hurried men's bodies as well as their brain-products
to corruption.

So at least Judith thought in the one
glimpse she had of it. Now a library
had ever been to her the one chamber
of delights in every house she had ever
visited. At Villa Eosa she and Uncle
Pierre had passed the greater part of

32

their lives among the books. Her one
idea of happiness had been to pull a
score or so of volumes on to the floor,
seat herself in their midst, and in succession
devour or at any rate taste them.
She longed to repeat the experiment
here, and one day coming in hot and
dusty from a long walk, and finding the
door ajar, she crept in, thinking she would
rest there till the luncheon-bell rang.

Shade of Magliabechi, what a room
it was ! Coming in from the sunlight
it seemed so dark she could scarcely
distinguish aught ; the small-pane windows
were greened with a thin veil of
moss, and outside, scratching the very
glass with their lusty arms, creaked and
groaned cedars and yews, which had
kept at least three or four hundred
birthdays. Little by little, however,
as her eyes grew accustomed to the
dimness, she could make out her surroundings.
She looked round her in
vain for sofa or easy-chair. A large

round table stood in the middle of the
room, at which were placed, at equal
distances, four high-backed chairs, one
a little withdrawn, as though some one
had just risen from the table.

That must be where Wolf was sitting "
she thought. "But what can make
him choose the darkest part of the room?
He could neither read nor write there
without a lamp. And oh, what an odour ! "

The air seemed positively heavy with
damp, mildewed dust, and that peculiar
old book smell ' which tells cf decaying
volumes.

It hung about everywhere, to the
walls, to the ceiling ; the very curtains,
dark, thick, heavily-fringed, seemed to
exhale it. And no wonder ! The massive
oak book-shelves were simply inch thick
with dust; the volumes scattered here
and there on the smaller tables, and one
or two, casually left on the high carved
mantelpiece, were buried under a solid,
clinging, white coating.

Over this mantelpiece hung the portrait,
finely painted in oils, of a man about
twenty five years of age. Judith stood
for at least five minutes looking up at
him. His features were well-shaped, his
eyes bright and laughing. Something in
the face, though it certainly was not
in the expression of the eyes, brought
back Wolf's to her mind.

Was this an ancient Reece," she
wondered, noting the sodden and faded
appearance alike of canvas and frame,
or a modern Reece ? Ten years of
this dust and mildew would make any
picture antique."

That is the portrait of my cousin-fourth
or fifth cousin, I should say 
Bernard Eeece," said a voice at her
elbow, and turning, she saw Wolf had
come in, and was surveying her and the
picture with anything but a pleased expression
of countenance.

Judith felt herself an intruder immediately,
and began to make apologies.

It was so hot outside ; this room
looked so dark and cool," she said.

Wolf-went on as though he had not
heard her :

He was the last owner of this place.
This was the last room he sat in before
he sailed for America. Do you see this
round table? It was placed here on the
day of his father's funeral, when the
will was read. This lamp in the centre
must have been lighted then ; they could
not have read a lawyer's handwriting
without it. See, it has not been trimmed
since. These four chairs were placed,
one for the lawyer, one for the parson,
one for the steward  old Maurice, you
know, my present steward  and one for
Bernard. This was Bernard's chair ; it
is my seat now," here he gave a short,
hard laugh, " and my favourite seat, I
may say. I never use any other in the
room."

It was all said in the driest and
hardest of voices  the sort of voice a

man might use in reading an uninteresting
parliamentary debate which had to
be got through for the benefit of another ;
or in which a man with a broken heart
would tell the story of his darling's
death to an unconcerned listener.

Judith's eyes wandered from the living
to the dead man's face.

It is like you and not like you," she
said. "The features are the same,
but "

"But the soul that shows through
them is different," Wolf interrupted.
No two men could be more unlike than
my cousin Bernard and myself."

He paused a moment, then added in
slightly sarcastic tones :

"Now, Miss Wynne, that you have
scanned the mysteries of the library,
don't you think that the sooner you get
out of this damp, mildewy air the
better? Five minutes more of it will
give you ague, or fever, or something
equally unpleasant, I am confident."

He held open the door for her.
Judith had no choice but to pass out.

Half-way down the corridor she heard
the oak door shut heavily, and she
fancied, too, she heard the key turned
in the lock.

She felt altogether mystified and
bewildered. What could he find to do
in that dark, mournful room? Why did
he not have it cleaned out, and made
comfortable and habitable ?

What, too, had been the history of
this Bernard Reece? Had he belonged
to that unlucky and numerous class of
individuals described in common parlance
as " nobody's enemy but their own," or
had his brief life been lived in such
sort as to bring upon him the enmity
of these his only surviving relatives? Of
what kind and strength had been the
bond between Wolf and him? She loved
old legends of any and every sort, and
this one, with its train of attendant
mysteries, of which now and again she

seemed to catch glimpses, she felt must
be worth knowing.

Later on in the day, as she and Mrs.
Eeece sat alone over their knitting, she
hazarded a question or two.

How old was Bernard Eeece when he
died? What sort of life had he led?
Was that frank, handsome picture a
good likeness of him?

"Ah, you mean the one in the library
where Wolf writes his sermons," answered
Mrs. Eeece. " Yes, they tell me it is
an excellent likeness. He was a handsome
young fellow, no doubt ; but wild
and headstrong to a decree. I don't
speak from personal knowledge, however,
only from report. None of us ever set
eyes on him."

"Not even Wolf?" questioned Judith.

"Xot even Wolfss, nor Wolfss father either.
You see, my husband in a measure cut
himself adrift from the Carnarvon Eeeces
when lie went to London as a curate.
They were such distant cousins, too. We

never expected to come into this property.
It was only a rapid succession of deaths
gave it to us."

Mrs. Eeece was exceptionally frank and
plain in her speech. She went on with her
confidences, in no wise unwilling to have
so interested a listener.

"Then, too, old Bernard Eeece  young
Bernard's father  was such a disagreeable
brute no one cared to have much to do
with him. He was a terrible miser, and
loved nothing better than hoarding up his
money. Young Bernard loved nothing
better than to spend it, so you may imagine
there were awful rows between the
father and son at times. Old Bernard used
to threaten his son that if he didn't turnover
a new leaf he would leave half his
money to the county asylum. Young
Bernard did not turn over a new leaf, and
when his father's will was read he found
that every penny the old man could leave
away from the estate was bequeathed to
the asylum. Bernard, in disgust, threw up

the house and sailed for New York within
a week of his father's funeral. Afterwards
he went on to Bermuda, where he
died about three years after his father.
Meantime, this place was left in the hands
of servants. Bernard said whoever liked
might look after it, and it fell into its
present dilapidated state. They tell me 
at least Oscar tells me  it is all but a ruin.
Of course I can't see for myself what it's
like, and Oscar always speaks  well, let
us say poetically. Xow, tell me, Judith,
does it seem to you in a terrible state
of dilapidation? I know you are fond
of speaking the truth."

But Judith was burning to hear more of
Bernard and his careless, headstrong ways.
The subject had a strange fascination for
her.

"Why did he never marry? " she asked.
It was odd that a man of that sort should
never have fallen in love."

44 How do I know he never fell in love ? "
laughed Mrs. Eeece. 44 1 know so little

about him. I dare say he fell into love
and out of love as many times as there are
months in the year. Ask old Bryce about
him, she can tell you his whole history if
she chooses. She was his nurse from
babyhood."

Bryce was his nurse ! " repeated Judith
in astonishment.

Now Bryce (otherwise Nancy Bryce) was
the housekeeper at The Grange, and was a
person of whom Judith stood not a little in
awe on account of her abrupt manners and
rugged countenance. She was a woman
close upon seventy years of age, and went
about the house in short skirts and mob-cap.
She acted as interpreter between Mrs.
Eeece and the other servants of the household,
who only spoke Welsh, a language in
which Bryce herself invariably indulged
when crossed in her wishes or annoyed at
any order for which she could see neither
rhyme nor reason. She carried her head
very high, she used a stick in walking up
and down stairs, and had a habit of

muttering and talking to herself as she
went about her duties.

Judith felt that her hopes of hearing
more of Bernard Eeece and his erratic
career were at an end now. It would, she
knew, be of as much use to question the
great Egyptian Sphinx itself as Nancy
Bryce, unless she volunteered to open her
lips.

c-  ! <

SBJffl|HE days went by in an even
MgjjgZ monotony at the old Grange, a
monotony that would have been
absolutely insupportable to most girls of
Judith's age. Wolf, waking up suddenly
one day to the fact that she was a girl of
nineteen, a visitor in their house, and had
a right to expect some sort of entertainment
at their hands, startled his mother
with the query whether they ought not to
provide her with amusement of some kind.

"She might as well be in a convent at
once," he said, " cut off as she is here from
all society."

"My dear," answered the shrewd Mrs.
Reece, " don't you think this is exactly

what her father wished she should have 
conventual seclusion without the objectionable
religious part ? Why did he send her
to us if he did not wish her to be cut off
from society? He knew perfectly well
what he was doing. He must have scores
of friends in London who could brin her
out and introduce her and all that sort of
thing, but no doubt he prefers that she
should not make her first appearance in
society till he can be by her side, and look
after her himself. And lie's quite right
too. The only mistake he made in the
matter was in ignoring the existence of my
grown-up sons, but no doubt he thought
you must be married by this time, and that
Oscar would be well out of her way at
college."

"Oughtn't she to have a horse, and keep
up her riding ? " persisted Wolf, feeling in
his own mind that something ought to be
done, though altogether dubious what the
something should be.

"And who is to ride out with her, I

should like to know?" queried leers. Reece.
"Are you prepared to give up your
sermon-writing and go for a two hours'
canter over the hills every morning ? 
he-bye, my dear, when will that book of
sermons be finished? The oucdit to be
something super-excellent from the time
you've spent over them."

This question sent back Wolf, silenced,
to his lair.

It seemed to be a received theory in the
household that the solitary hours he passed,
in the library were spent in sermon writing
Judith did not believe it. For one thing,,
in her brief survey of the large centre-table
she had noted that neither books nor manuscripts
lay upon it ; the pen-tray also was
simply buried in dust ; in the black-marble
inkstand the ink had dried away. Wolf
himself had drawn her attention to the fact
that the lamp in the centre of the table had
not been trimmed since the day of old
Bernard's funeral. Candles there were
none in the room, and without light at that
vol. 1. 4

table anything but the wildest hieroglyphics
would have been an impossibility.

The thought pressed upon her intermittently,
if not sermon writing, what
could that silent, abstracted man be doing
through those long hours in that desolate
room? She had set herself to make a
collection of Welsh field-flowers, and sometimes
as she wandered along some pleasant
bowery lane a glance up at those dark
windows of the old Grange would set her
shuddering and thinking. She would shut
her eyes and conjure up a mental picture
of that library interior with all its dreary
details. The odour of damp and dust
would seem to smite her senses once more ;
the handsome face of Bernard Eeece would
smile down on her from the wall ; and
there, seated opposite to it, looking up at
it with solemn, lack-lustre eyes, she could
picture to herself Wolf, with elbows resting
on the table, and upturned, haggard face.

This likeness of Wolf thus seated somehow
took possession of her brain, and

seemed to haunt her. She had no conscious
perception of the monotony of the
days that went by, so charged did they
seem to her with meaning and mystery.
The very air of the place seemed laden with
something. What could it be  an untold
story  a dismal secret ?

She had been brought up in an atmosphere
of legend and tradition. From her
earliest years her Aunt Maggie had instilled
into her brain stories of the Maclvor race.
How they had left their highland home and
settled among their lowland brethren, an
altogether superior, yet nevertheless despised,
people, with their hand against
every man, and every man's hand against
them ; Low they swore to and bled for the
holy Covenant ; how they fought for their
king and country; what bitter persecutions,
starvation, and imprisonments they had
endured; how they were despised, afflicted,
tormented ; what miraculous escapes they
had had at times from pursuing enemies
how at last they had come triumphantly

42



University Pr h,, Noms

out of all their troubles, settled down
peacefully as good money-making citizens,
and had bequeathed large fortunes to their
children and children's children.

Then also Uncle Pierre's one idea of
education had been the laying a solid
foundation of church history and legendary
lore. Books by the score  infantine,
juvenile, or for " those of riper years " 
had found their way to her hand, filled
with the histories of prophet, saint, and
martyr.

Or, in the long summer evenings, as, side
by side, he and she had strolled under the
trees of the neatly-kept, broad walks of
Villa Eosa, with a big yellow moon overhead,
and the croak and hum of a hundred
thousand twilight creatures growing faint
and fainter as darkness crept over the land,
he had, in his soft, even monotone, related
these sacred stories, explaining here, adding
a picturesque, life-giving touch there,
till the girl, with strangely-aroused fancy,
had imagined herself living and moving

among the heroic actors of those bygone
tragedies, and would occasionally oddly
mix up the doughty deeds of her own lusty
Scotch ancestors with those of the early
martyrs of the Catholic Church.

It was certainly strange that this oddly-paired
brother and sister should each have
assailed their young niece on the same side
of her nature  the poetic. As might be
expected, her imaginative faculties were
prematurely developed, and, when the run
of the library was granted to her, the works
of the great poets, the volumes of ancient
myth and legend, were those she fell upon
and devoured. They served her in good
stead, however ; they gave her  or if they
did not give, helped to developed in her 
that most precious of all gifts  poetic
insight.

When she came as a visitor to this old
Welsh Grange, the young girl, to a certain
extent, brought her atmosphere with her,
and saw and judged her surroundings
through its medium.

To her the grey old rooms and dim
corridors seemed echoing with sad whisperings
and mournful voices, or else sullen and
heavy with mysteries and unrevealed
secrets. Even the room which had been
set apart for her on the sunniest side of the
house, and which had been  at Oscar's
suggestion  slightly furbished up and supplied
with some modern furniture in addition
to the old, seemed begirt with the same
air of significant mystery.

Often and often did Judith lie awake half
through the night listening to what seemed
to her soft raps against the window-panes,
or on one of the many doors the room
owned to. Or sometimes, half asleep, she
would start up in bed thinking she heard
her name called, and expecting to see some
weird, misty shape spin itself out by her
bedside.

A feeling of intense curiosity took possession
of her at times, occasionally so great as
almost to compel her to rise from her bed,
dress herself, and make the tour of the old

bouse in the dead of night, searching for
she knew not what.

All terror of the supernatural seemed to
have died in her heart, merged in this
one deep longing to get to the bottom of
something unfathomable and impenetrable,
yet ever at hand.

In the morning, as the warm July sun
streamed into her room, fancies, curiosities,
and longings fled away together ; but none
the less as the silence of night fell on the
small household, true as the stars themselves
would they troop back again and hold sway
till dawn once more.

fe?VEB and above midnight fancies
the noonday realities at the old
Grange gave abundant food for
thought to a young person fond of wondering
and puzzling over mysteries, of conjuring
the Possible out of the Actual. Wolfss
odd, silent ways, his persistent habits of
seclusion, were, however, the things which
seemed to niche themselves most firmly in
her brain  in fact, were seldom or never
out of it. What did it all mean ? Had he,
a minister of God's Church, committed some
heinous sin from whose consequences he
found it impossible to free himself? Or
had he, all unwittingly, been made the
depositary of some guilty secret, and did

he, vicariously, endure, the torments of
another's stricken soul.

The more she wondered over it, the
darker the matter grew to her.

Oscar had, in moments of confidential
talk, told her much of the hard-working,
hard-living days they had gone through
at the East End of London. Specially he
had loved to dwell upon Wolfss incessant
activity among the poor and sick, his habits
of rigid self-denial, his devotion to his
mother and brother.

"Where we should have been without
him, I don't know," Oscar had exclaimed
enthusiastically, after an hour of declamation
on the matter. "He denied himself
food, and the commonest necessaries of life,
to pay for my books and schooling. Why,
he lived on turnips and potatoes for nearly
six months to pay my mother's doctor's
fees when she first grew blind. She did not
know it, for he always took care she should
have meat on her plate, but he did it all
the same. I say, Judith, I should like you

just to have seen us all when the news
came that the Grange had fallen to Wolf.
Wolf stipulated that every penny we had,
every article of furniture and clothing,
should be given to the poor people in the
neighbourhood. I was jolly glad to get
rid of my old shiny coats, I can tell you.
Then the first money he drew from the
estate he put untouched into the offertory-bag.
I say, Judith "  this sotto voce, with a
nervous look towards the door  " you
mustn't think Wolf was always the queer,
silent fellow he is now. Something like a
blight seemed to fall upon him on the very
first day we set foot in the Grange. He
had given orders for all sorts of repairs to
be done here, and we were going in for
decoration on a grand scale. Suddenly he
puts a stop to everything, packs off the
workmen before they've so much as time to
get their tools out of their baskets, and
from that day to this won't hear a word
about painters and glaziers. Isn't it queer? "
Judith certainly thought it was queer,

and the more she thought over the whole
thing the queerer it seemed to her. It was
well-nigh an impossibility for her to link
the past life of this man with his life in the
present, to identify the hard-working, self-denying
benevolent clergyman with the
gloomy, taciturn man, who seemed willing
to ignore the existence of every living soul
in the house, and to have no thought nor
desire in life beyond the attainment of
complete, unbroken solitude and seclusion.

Mrs. Eeece also, as confidence grew
between her and Judith, adverted to the
change that had taken place in her son.

He was so bright and cheerful in our
hard times ; it seems strange he should grow
sad and silent now that times are easy," she
said.

The alteration in him, however, did not
seem to her so marked as it did to Oscar 
who, with his keen young eyesight, noted a
variety of small details of which she was
necessarily ignorant.

Not only did Wolf and his eccentricities

occupy Judith's thoughts at this time.
After a while a second person came in for a
large share of her observation.

This person was old Nancy Bryce, of the
rugged countenance and short petticoats.

Judith had felt something of an antipathy
to old Nancy from the first day she
had set foot in the house. Why it was she
could scarcely explain to herself, but she
certainly took it into her head that for some
purpose of her own Bryce was playing the
part of a spy. She felt positive, also,
that the old woman bore no good-will towards
the Eeece family, and was convinced
that those soft sibilant Welsh sentences she
was perpetually muttering about the house
were nothing more nor less than a string of
anathemas upon the present master and
mistress of the Grange.

Mrs. Eeece in no wise shared Judith's
feelings towards Bryce ; she would speak of
her as a faithful old retainer, a good old
body, who looked well after her (Mrs.
Eeece's) interests in the house.

Judith had volunteered to spend an hour
or so every morning in reading to Mrs.
Reece. The hour was, however, more frequently
than otherwise spent in long pleasant
chats, in which the elder lady talked
freely of her own early married life, of her
dead husband, and of her children. Of the
former she drew a portrait so graphic and
life-like, that Judith felt sure it must be a
true one.

"My first Wolf," she said, "was hardworking
and self-denying like my second,
but he was not so strong a man in will, nor
so decisive and abrupt in manner. He was
nervous and vacillating at times. It cost
him so much to say an unkind or harsh
word, that he was frequently silent when
he ought to have spoken. I think it was
his excessive timidity of giving offence that
taught me plain-speaking. Some one has
to do the disagreeable part of life, the
skirmishing, aggressive and defensive ; if
the husband gets behind the hedge, depend
upon it the wife comes to the front and gets

the scars. Now, my second Wolf errs in
tke opposite direction. Some people used
to say lie was too harsh on the sins of the
poor people who formed his flock, did not
make allowance enough for their temptations
and ignorances when he told them of
their sins. He would call a man a liar to
his face. ' Sir,' one man said to him, ' if I
had not told that one lie, and said I hadn't
been sent to gaol when I had, I should have
cot no work, and then I and my wife would
have starved.' ' Better starve than tell lies,'
I heard Wolf reply, and I haven't the least
doubt that if he had been in that man's
place he would have starved. Ah, well ! we.
were near enough to starvation more than
once in those days, but, thank Heaven, our
temptations were never greater than we
could bear. Thank Heaven we came out
of it all unscathed ! "

Judith fell to wondering whether Wolf
would echo his mother's thanksgiving.
Also supposing he could be for one short
week restored to his ministry among the

poor people, would lie be quite so harsh
in his judgments on them, quite so confident
of his own power of resisting evil?

Her wondering carried her farther.
Should she ever see him in the pulpit
preaching the doctrines of repentance and
faith ? Should she ever hear him reading
the beautiful prayers of the Church, pronouncing
absolution on the penitents kneeling
around him ?

She shut her eyes, and tried to picture
him kneeling and praying beside the deathbed
of some sinner, or standing, white-robed,
within the altar rails, speaking words
of peace and benediction. No; she cou'd
not do it. His vehement, half-defiant words
about one who sought, but could not find,
repentance, would ring in her ears, out-sounding
the gospel-words of peace and
blessing; his white, haggard face  a face
that seemed to have sin as well as sorrow
written upon it  would rise up before her,
and make to vanish the calm and holy one
she had tried to image. She could picture

him in the regal garb of a conscience-stricken
Macbeth, in the goatskin even of a red-handed
Cain ; but in the white robes of a
minister of God  no.

It is true she had heard lrm read the
household prayers night and morning ever
since her coming to the house, but they
were in Welsh, not in English ; they
touched no chord in her heart, possibly
they touched none in Wolfss. At any rate
he read them in perfunctory style with
voice pitched on one note which neither
rose nor fell, and with eyes fixed and expressionless.


His manner of reading these prayers had
struck her on the first morning of her
arrival.

They are in Welsh, for the sake of the
servants' he had explained to her as he
had opened his book.

Then he had seemed to harden and
straighten his features, and he had gone
through the prayers from beginning to end
without so much as an inflection in the

drv, hard monotone to which his voice had
risen.

All this had flashed through Judith's
mind as Mrs. Eeece ceased speaking. The
elder lady did not remark her silence ;
indeed, if the truth be told, it was a
circumstance she rarely remarked in anyone,
although the opposite condition of
things was apt on occasions to bring forth
vehement comment from her lips. Possibly
it was Judith's wonderful a;' latitude for playing
the part of listener that had first
warmed and opened the old lady's heart
towards her.

She is one of the sweetest girls I ever
met," she said very loud, and very often, in
Wolf's presence, " and our morning hour
together is the pleasantness I have known
for many a long day past."

The morning hour was, however, interrupted
on this particular morning by Bryce,
who came in to ask for some more wool for
the stocking-knitting that went on below-stairs.
" Those idle girls had scarcely any-vol.
1. 5

thing to do from morning till night, and
would waste their time in gossip and nonsense
if they weren't set to work." She
grumbled.

Nothing to do ! " thought Judith, " and
so many rooms in that untasted, cobwebby
condition ! "

It always seemed to her that the maids
had more on their hands than they knew
how to get through; that the house, from
top to bottom, suffered from an insufficiency
of servants. If Mrs. Eeece had but had her
eyesight for five minutes, surely she could
have found the maids ample employment
independently of stocking-knitting.

Mrs. Eeece, however, had not her eyesight,
so all she did was to pull a heavy
skein of yarn from her ample work-basket.
Judith took it from her and handed it to
Bryce.

The old woman was about to take it
when suddenly the ring on Judith's right
hand caught her eye. A look of horror
overspread her brown wrinkled face. She

drew back a step, pointing to the ring,
and shaking her head to the skein of
wool.

"I take nothing from that hand,"
she cried, retreating farther and farther.
"Take it off take it off, Miss Judith, if
you don't want to bring a curse upon
the house ! "

The ring was a large bloodstone, in
antique setting. It had belonged to an
ancient Maclvor, and Judith had worn it
for the first time that morning.

She slipped it off her finger immediately.
She was accustomed to superstitions. The
people of St. Andre had had enough and
to spare. She had loved to hear them
tell their quaint stories of bird, or tree,
or flower. To her they were all wild,
beautiful tales, the outcome of some deep
human feeling, or founded on the fragments
of some ruins of a bygone religion.

"No doubt," she thought, "Bryce has
in her mind some fantastic "Welsh story
of love and blood-shedding, which would

52

be well worth the hearing. YYM1 you
take it now, Bryce ? " she asked, as she
once more proffered the wool, while not
even the shadow of a smile showed itself
about the corners of her mouth.

Bryce shook her head.

"Your Land must be dipped thrice in
the stream that runs through the wood,"
she said in her harsh, creaking voice, " before
it will be as the hand of a Christian
again. St. Go van once, wearied with his
journey, stopped and bathed his blessed
feet in it on his way to the cil in the
mountains. It will cleanse your hand as
nothing else will. Lay the skein on the
floor."

"Very well," said Judith, laying the
wool on the floor at the old body's feet.
This afternoon I shall be in the wood,
and will make a point of dipping my
hand three times in the stream, kneeling,
I suppose, with my face to the east ;
will that be right?"

"What is it all about?" asked Mrs.

Iteece, dropping her work and adjusting
her spectacles on her high nose, just as
though they were of real use to her.

Wolf, coming in at that moment, repeated
the question.

As he entered, Bryce passed out of the
room, giving, what seemed to Judith, one
backward look of ill-will at her master
as she went.

What is that about dipping your hand
in the stream with your face to the east ? "
he asked in his usual short, hard tones.

Judith explained Bryce's dread of the
bloodstone.

Wolf laughed outright, the harsh, unpleasant
laugh of scorn, not that of goodwill
and merriment.

what rubbish can the old body have
got into her head?" he exclaimed. "I
know nearly every tradition or superstition
that ever existed in this part of the country,
and I never heard anything against
the bloodstone. It must be some old
family legend she's treasuring up, depend

upon it. The bloodstone may be of evil
omen to the Eeece family exclusively.
Lend it to me, Miss Wynne ; I have a
great fancy for defying family tradition'

Before Judith could regain possession of
her ring, he had slipped it on his little
linger.

There, now I'm prepared to be the
family scapegoat," he said with the same
unpleasant laugh as before. "Will you
wear my diamond in exchange, or is the
diamond a stone of ill-omen to the
Wynne ? I would not like to import ill-luck
into your family."

He held out his diamond-ring as he
:spoke. Judith hesitated only one moment,
then slipped his big ring on her forefinger.
It hung there loosely enough.

If I lose it, it will be your fault, and,
please, I must have my bloodstone back
again. It's all but an heirloom," she said
laughingly, registering meantime a mental
resolve that on the very first opportunity
she would endeavour to coax Bruce into

telling her the legend of the bloodstone-ring.


As for Mrs. Eeece, this exchange of
rings between the young people brought
a sudden rush of gladness into her old
heart. It seemed to her an omen of success
to a wish that of late she had
begun to cherish.

CHAPTEE VII.

'HE opportunity Judith desired came
fHH the very next day without any
seeking on her part.

She was walking, in the cool of the
evening, on the terrace that ran the
length of the old house, book in hand,
when suddenly she heard Bryce call to
her, "Miss Judith! Miss Judith!" in
low, hurried tones.

Looking up she saw the old body's
mob-cap and wrinkled face peering out
at her from among the laurels which half-screened
the window of the housekeeper's
room.

Judith closed her book. "What is
it ? ' : she asked, at the same time making

up lier mind that if Bryce wanted anything
of her she should pay for it with
the story of the bloodstone-ring.

She parted the laurels and looked into
the small, dark room. It was low-ceiled
and oak-wainscoted like every other room
in the Grange. From floor to ceiling it was
well supplied with the cupboards and
shelves supposed to be the indispensable
accessories to good housekeeping. On a
small table under the window was Bryce's
work-basket, containing her knitting-pins
and the skein of stocking-yarn unwound
still.

Miss Judith, I want to know a something,"
reiterated Bryce. "Will you tell
me why the master is wearing that ring
the ring that was on your hand yesterday
 the ring that'll bring no good to
him, nor to any one of us?"

There was something of fierceness,
something of terror, in the old woman's
voice.

"Now is the time," thought Judith, "for

the story." She looked down at the
work-basket. "Why, haven't you wound
your wool, Bryce? Are you afraid of it
because I touched it? Shall I come in
and show you how we used to wind our
balls in France ? My hand is clean now,
I dipped it three times in St. Govan's
stream just as you told me."

She did not wait for Bryce's invitation
to enter, but, as she finished speaking,
opened a side door leading into the
housekeeper's room, and went in.

Bryce, with a sour face, placed a chair
for her, entering her protest meantime
against French methods of winding wool,
against everything, indeed, that was not
purely national and indigenous.

I never did like foreign ways," she
grumbled. " It was all Master Bernard's
fondness for foreign parts that brought
ill-luck to him."

The mention of the name of this luckless
son of the house set Judith's ears
tingling. She would a hundred thousand

times sooner have heard his history than
the legend of the bloodstone-ring !

Was Master Bernard always fond of
travelling ? " she asked Jesuitically, trying
to give the conversation another turn,
and leaning forward with her arms on
the table, an expectant listener.

But Bruce was more easier to ask than
to answer questions at that particular
moment. She gave a succession of brief
nods which might be taken for affirmations,
or might stand (so Judith thought)
for the Welsh equivalent of " Don't bother
me with questions when I have something
of my own to ask ! " Then she laid her
bony hand on Judith's arm.

"Tell me, Miss Judith," she persisted,
"why you and the master have changed
rings. Are you lovers? What does it
mean r

Judith laughed outright.

Lovers ! Xo, indeed," she answered
frankly enough. " I never had a lover
in my life. I am expected to wait for

my lovers till my father comes home
and allows them to me. I have had
this notion drilled into my brain ever
since I was seven years old  long before
I knew what lovers meant."

Then why did yon change rings with
him? Why?  why? In Wales, when
a man and woman change rings, they
mean to marry each other, and do marry,
unless one comes between them."

: And so they do in other parts of the
world besides Wales  unless they change
rings for fun. We only did it for fun."

Bryce shook her head.

; I don't like such fun. It's ill trifling
over evil things," she muttered.

"Now, why is that stone evil? You
must tell me. It's a beautiful stone."

It's an evil stone, Miss Judith, with
an evil name. It'll bring a curse upon
the house, take my word for it."

"Xow, if it had been that stone," and
here Judith touched the brooch  an onyx
with which Bryce had pinned her kerchief,

i: I could have understood it. The people
at St. Andre had a queer story to tell
about onyx brooches, Bryce."

Bryce fidgeted and looked uncomfortable.


"And I don't like my brooch to be
called 'evil' without rhyme or reason,
Miss Judith."

And I don't like my ring to be called
1 evil ' without rhyme or reason." retorted
Judith.

But there is rhyme and reason for it,"
exclaimed Bryce vehemently. " Wasn't
there a Bernard Eeece found lying murdered
nigh by the Ffynnon in the wood?
He was Master Bernard's grandfather,
the first Bernard in the family. Ah, no
good ever comes of these outlandish
names. All the squires in the old days
were ever Owens or Glendower. It's
the three Bernardss who brought all the
ill-luck."

Bryce's sentence ended in a sigh and
another shake of the head. It boded ill

for the gratification of Judith's curiosity.
She endeavoured once more to lead the
old woman back to the ring.

"You've a change of name now in the
house," she said. " I should think a Wolfgang
has never before been heard of in
Wales. Perhaps it was only to the
Bernardss that the bloodstone brought bad
luck."

Bryce shook her head again.

"It's not a change for the better, Miss
Judith. It's a more outlandish name than
the other. Wolfgang, indeed -hugh ! "

Now Bryce's " Hugh ! " Welsh guttural
though it was, was suggestive, and
easily understood. It stood mid-way
between a shudder and an imprecation.

Judith met it as she would an argument
in the mouth of an adversary.

"But for all that," she persisted, "it
is possible that a Wolfgang may wear
without any risk a ring that a Bernard
shouldn't look at."

Not that ring ! " exclaimed Bryce with

an almost savage vehemence. " No Reece
can wear that ring without bringing a
murderer across his path. There, Miss
Judith, I've told it you now ! For the love
of Heaven <?et the master to give you back
your ring, and you drop it into the
blessed stream where that other was
dropped."

"What other? The one the murdered
man wore ? "

Aye, and that his mother after him
wore, too. Listen, Miss Judith. It
doesn't follow because the master is wearing
it that he'll be the one murdered :
but as sure as he's a Eeece he'll bring
a murderer into the house. That's what
he'll do."

How did a bloodstone ever get into
the house, Bryce ? Tell me that," pleaded
Judith.

"This way, Miss Judith. The first
Bernard  our Master Bernard's grandfather
 married a Scotch lady, a tall,
bony, evil-looking woman, I've heard my

mother say. She was very poor, and
very proud, and had to give up a lover
of her own in Scotland to marry the
Welsh squire. She was very silent, very
high to the poor people, and never spoke
a word to living soul if she could help
it. They said she and her husband's
mother  who lived in the house  hated
each other like poison. She always wore
a big bloodstone-ring, which some people
said her first lover had given her. Anyhow,
her husband hated to see her wearing
it, and ordered her to give it to him.
There were words over it, and she was
obliged to give in. She flung it in his
face, and cursed him in her own Scotch
comme. telling him the ring would brings
curse to him and to his children after
him, and that sooner or later a murderer
would cross his path. Her words were
only too soon fulfilled. Within a month
from that day Squire Bernard was found
lying dead in the wood, stabbed and
shamefully beaten about. His wife went

back immediately to her own people in
Scotland, and did not so much as put on
black for him. Then Madame Eeece 
Squire Bernard's mother  took the ring
which the murdered man had worn, put
it on her own finger, and remembering
the words of the wicked woman's curse,
prayed that it might bring her son's
murderer across her path. And one night,
as she lay in bed  in the very room you
are sleeping in now, Miss Judith  there
came to her bedside the evil Scotch lady,
who told her how she couldn't rest in
peace because of her sins ; that she herself
had first drugged and then murdered her
husband in the wood, in order that she
might go back to her first lover. Madame
Eeece sat up in bed, and called her a
bitter name, and tried to catch her by
the sleeve, but her hand seemed only to
go through and through her. Then she
made up her mind she had seen the
wicked woman's wraith, and she rang the
bell, and roused the house, and told them
vol. i. 6

all about it. And, sure enough, when

the 7 sent to the Scotch lady's people,

they found that she and her lover had

been drowned while out boating on a
lake. There, Miss Judith, there's the story

of the bloodstone, as my mother told it

me; and a dismal enough story it is!"

It was a dismal story, and told in that
damp, dark room, in Bryce's creaking
tones, its dismalness became doubled.

Judith suddenly awoke to the consciousness
that the sun had set, that the
frogs were croaking drearily, that the
evening was getting damp and chill.

I think I'll say good-night, Bryce ;
it must be almost time for prayers"' she
said. " So Madame Eeece dropped the
ring into the stream when she had done
with it. I think I should have kept it.
It did, you see, as much good as harm,
after all; it told the poor lady the truth
about her son's fate. Good-night, Bryce.
Some day, perhaps, you'll tell me something

about your Master Bernard. I
should like to hear his story."

Miss Judith," pleaded Bryce, catching at
the young girl's arm, " you'll get the master
to give you back the ring? For all that
things are not exactly what one would have ;
I wouldn't like worse to come to the house."

The last sentence was muttered in an
undertone, and was evidently not intended
for Judith's ears.

So Judith shut them, and went her way,
wondering much over this old body's
deep devotion to the Eeece family, joined
as it so oddly was with evident enmity to
the present head of the house.

Nevertheless, somehow the talk she
had had with Bryce had made her feel
a little ashamed of the prejudices she
had cherished against her. After all,
there mio-ht be some foundation  slight
or mistaken, perhaps  for the old servant's
present discontent, though what that foundation
was, she was utterly at a loss to

imagine.

62

pppflpHEN Judith went to bed that
A Ap night, her thoughts were full of
the story of the .


It would make a grand poem," she
thought to herself, as she stood in her
bedroom window-recess, slowly plaiting
her long dark hair, and picturing to herself
the murdered man lying beside the
stream in the lonely wood, and the evil
wife looking her farewell to him from
the other side.

Or a wonderful picture," her thoughts
went on ; " if I could paint, it would
be the sort of story I should delight in.
I think I should choose the moment when

the old mother lay awake in bed  that
bed, no doubt "  here she nodded at the
old-fashioned, heavily-curtained four-poster,
which formed her own couch  " thinking
of her murdered son, and the dead
wife's wraith came and stood by her side.
Yes, it would make a wonderful picture.
Why, the greatest artist who ever painted
might find a wraith beyond him. Dante
might perhaps have done it if he had
been a painter instead of a poet. Fancy
being able to paint a soul ! To put all
the regret, and sorrow, and pain into one
look, and print the look on air ! "

Here she let fall her heavy plaits,
unlocked her casement window, and
leaned out into the still, night air.

It was early yet, barely ten o'clock,
but everything round and about the
Grange was as quiet as though it had
been midnight. The moon was bright,
but not at its highest ; the gardens below
Judith's window lay in the deepest shadow ;
the wood beyond caught the white beams

on the tops of the highest trees only,
but the blue mountains, which towered
in the near distance, were literally steeped
in the white light. Every jutting crag
and fantastic point stood distinctly outlined
in all its weird whimsicality against
the limpid sky.

Odd thoughts began to shape themselves
in Judith's brain. If those rocks
could for an instant take to themselves
a human voice what strange stories
they might tell of wandering prince or
dying chieftain, heroic martyr, or feeble
anchorite ! What secrets some of those
dark hollows must hold, what terrible
scenes of violence, marauding, and perhaps
murder, those sharp, overhanging crags
must have looked down upon !

The whole scene, in all its wild desolateness,
had a strange fascination for her.
She found it difficult to tear herself away
from it to complete her toilette for the
night. She closed her window with a
sigh, but left the blind and curtains widely

withdrawn, so that even from her bed
she eonld see the beautiful, shadowless
night-sky, and the grand curves and castle-like
turrets of the darkblue rocks.

The moonlight and the rocks, as might
be expected, filled her dreams. In fancy
she crossed the dark wood in the dead
of night, and stood alone at the foot of
the mountains looking up at the round
summer's moon. It poured its light full
upon the earth at her feet ; every tiny
weed, every branches of moss, was outlined
in unerring distinctness, and moment
by moment the light that fell upon them
seemed to grow clearer and stronger.
But, strange to say, every ray that fell
upon the earth seemed to leave the moon
by so much the darker ; it seemed
absolutely emptying itself of its light,
literally pouring it out upon the earth
ray by ray, silently, slowly, ceaselessly,
till it hung a great, dark, empty orb in
the midst of the heavens.

In her dream Judith felt a great awe

steal over her. The sky above seemed
a great, dull, heavy blank ; the earth,
which lay at her feet, too bright and
dazzling for human steps to tread. A
terror took possession of her. This harsh,
glittering white light, what horrors and
secrets all round would it not lay bare
to her eye! A prayer rose to her lips,
Lord, keep Thy great pure light for
the heaven of heavens, on earth let shadow
.and darkness encompass us still." And
then she drew a long breath and awoke.
What was it that had awakened her?
she asked herself as she sat upright in bed,
.and listened intently for the repetition of
some noise which had distinctly crossed
her dreams. It could not have been the
striking of the clock, for at that moment
the one in the hall below sounded the
hour, three distinct bells. She had been
asleep, then, longer than she thought,
four or five hours, and it had seemed
only like a five minutes' doze. Hark !
and she held in her breath and strained

her ears to listen  there it was again.
A footfall at her door, a rustling out in
the corridor, it seemed to be. For a
moment the blood rushed from her heart
to her brain. A deadly coldness seized
her. What if some poor, lost, restless
soul were to come and stand by her bedside,
as once before one had stood on
the self-same spot, confessing a terrible
crime. She stretched out her hand, almost
expecting it to be seized in some damp,
clammy touch, pushing aside the chintz
curtains of her bed, so as to get a clear
view of her room. The moonlight was
Hooding every corner of it now. The commonplace
tables and chairs had a weird
poetic appearance, which in the garish light
of day they utterly lacked. Some new
furniture had been placed in it to supplement
the old, half-worn-out articles, and
in broad daylight the room wore an air
of jauntiness, of semi-renovation, of I-
would-if-I-couldness, which belied its past
history. All this, however, had vanished

in the mystic light of the moon, the very
air of the room seemed poetised, etherealised.
Its past days of uncannyness
seemed to have crept back upon it. A
whole army of restless, antiquated spirits
trooping in and out of the corners, opening
and shutting the high cupboard-doors,
peering and gleaming here, there, everywhere,
would in no wise have seemed
out of place amid these eerie surroundings.

Judith felt herself growing colder and
colder. She strove, by a strong exercise
of will, to get back her courage.

It's all fancy, I know," she said,
speaking out as loudly and bravely as
she dared ; " my ears must have deceived
me. I will just open my door, and make
sure no one is there, then I'll light a
candle and read myself to sleep again."

She slipped out of bed, with bare feet
made her way to the door, and softly
turning the handle, looked out.

Xot a soul was to be seen, not a sound
was to be heard. In the corridor was

deepest, blackest night, broken only by
a thin, white stream of moonlight, which
the opening of her door had let out .
Something glittered in this stream of
light on the floor at her feet, and, stooping
down, Judith picked up what seemed to
her an antiquated shawl-pin, made in the
shape of an arrow, and either of gold or
gilt brass. It was very odd. Some one ?
then, had been down that corridor in
the dead of the night. Who could it have
been? Well, anyhow, she would take
possession of the pin, and speak to Mrs.
Eeece on the matter the next morning.

She was about to return to her room.
when at this moment another sound fell
upon her ear. It was a groan, or rather
moan, as of someone in a fainting-fit or
breathing heavily. A quick terror entered
her mind. Had robbers broken into the
house and half murdered someone, perhaps
one of the servants, perhaps Wolf, who
was always wandering about the house
late at night ?

She snatched her dark, thick dressing-gown,
which lay on a chair near the
door, tossing the old gold-pin on a
small table standing by, and with swift,
silent steps made her way along the
corridor, pausing once at the head of
the staircase to listen whence the sound
came.

She could hear nothing, however ; everything
seemed still and vault-like below ;
but leaning over the oak balustrade, she
could see a narrow thread of light showing
under one of the many doors which
opened into the hall. She rightly guessed
it came from the library, and with still
the one thought in her mind of someone
lying wounded and injured, she ran down
the stairs, and groped her way to this
door. On the threshold she paused in a
thrill of horror, for there, white and
motionless, lay Wolf on the floor, almost
at her feet. His chair  Bernard Recte's
chair  lay overturned by his side, and
there was an ugly bruise on his forehead,

made possibly by the sharp edge of the
table as he fell.

A candle burned feebly on the high
mantelpiece. In other respects the room
was exactly as when she had last seen it,
dust and damp clinging everywhere, and
the frank, handsome face of Bernard
Eeece smiling down upon it all.

She felt certain now that Wolf had
been attacked and wounded by someone
attempting to enter the house. She
kneeled down by his side, raised his head,
pillowing it on some heavy folios which
lay at hand, and was about to cross the
room to ring for help, when he suddenly
opened his eyes, caught the hem of her
dress, and held her tightly.

Then he began to talk rapidly, and, it
seemed to Judith, deliriously, as one not
knowing what he said.

Whoever you are, don't leave me," he
implored : " for Christ's sake don't leave
me ! He had pity even for murderers !
I'm not that  no, not that. I tell you

I will have nothing to do with bloodshedding.
I am a man of God  do you
hear, a man of God ? " Here he raised
himself on his elbow, and looked wildly
around him, still holding the affrighted girl
by her gown. " I prayed to God as I
have prayed here, night after night, I tell
you. I vowed to Him I would not touch
one penny of the gold more than was
absolutely needed, that I did it for them
not for myself, that I would give it all up
by-and-by, and I prayed to God to let
me keep it all for a time. I say for a time.
And I prayed Him to-night, just as I have
prayed on other nights, to let the deadman's
soul come back and speak one word
to me. Then out of the mist and darkness
something came  a shadow, a shape.
It drew nearer  nearer. 'He conies at
last,' I thought ; ' if he knows what I
have suffered his words will be peace and
blessing, not a curse.' It stood by my side
I could have touched it as I sat. I looked
up in its face. Oh God ! It was my own ;



white  white  white was the face, but
the hands were red with blood ! "

His words ended in a gasp, he sank
back on the floor, loosing his hold
of Judith's dress ; his eyes closed once
more, and the heavy breathing recommenced.


Judith felt herself shaking from head to
foot. What was to be done? She dared
not rouse the household to see their master
in this condition; to say truth , she trembled
for the next words he might utter.
Yet help of some sort she felt he must have.
There would surely be some water in the
dining-room, and wine or brandy in the
cellaret. This she herself could easily procure.
She took the candle from the mantelpiece,
made her way quickly across the hall,
and returned with both water and brandy.
Then again kneeling by Wolf's side, she
bathed his bruised forehead, and, slightly
raising his head, held the brandy to his
lips. Little by little, she contrived to get
him to swallow some ; consciousness slowly

returned ; lie opened his eyes and now recognised
her.

"You here, Judith'' he exclaimed  it
was the first time he had ever called her by
her Christian name  " how is this ? Surely
it is the middle of the night. Did I call
out F I must have fainted, I suppose''
Again he raised himself on his elbow ; a
shudder passed over him. He caught
Judith's hand. " Is anyone else here ? " he
asked. " Tell me, have I been talking ?
How did you find out I had fallen ? " He
spoke vehemently, rapidly, his voice growing
stronger and more natural in tone.

Judith felt nervous, distressed, and compassionate
all in one. How her heart ached
for this man in his hopelessness and misery !

;t Please drink some more brandy"' she
entreated. t; Xo one is here but I. I heard
you fall, I suppose, and came down thinking
thieves were in the house. Oh, you talked
nonsense, nothing more ; people often ramble
when they lose their senses in a fit, don't
you know. Shall I ring for Bryce, or

Davies "  Davies was the man who combined
the offices of butler and coachman in
the Eeeces' establishment.

Wolf sat upright on the floor.

No, don't ring," he said ; " I shall getup
and be all right again in a minute. Yes,
I was only talking nonsense, as you say, I
don't suppose you could remember a word
of what I said, if you tried ? "

Xo, no, no," answered Judith, trying to
put it all out of her thoughts ; " at least,"
she added, correcting herself, " I could not
repeat it if I tried ever so hard."

Wolf looked at her keenly.

Put that chair, please, close to my
hand. Xo, thanks ; you are not strong
enough to help me up. So  thank you ! "
With something of an effort he struggled to
his feet again, still keeping his eye almost
sternly fixed on the white, trembling girl.
Now, will you kindly try, Miss Wynne, to
repeat to me, word for word, what I did
say, as nearly as you can remember it ? I
shall be infinitely obliged to you if you
vol. 1. 7

will make the effort ; " this was added in
his usual hard tone.

Judith could scarcely keep the tears from
her eyes, and spite of effort they would
make themselves heard in her voice.

Oh, please do not ask me," she implored
; " whatever you said I shall try to
forget ; and oh, do be sure it will be
sacred to me  no word of it will ever pass
my lips to living soul ! "

Wolf looked down into her white face fora
moment.

I believe you," he said below his breath ;
I can trust you. I see truth itself in your
eyes. Poor child ! " he added pityingly,
how frightened you look ! Come, let me
take you back to your room. Think of it
all as some nightmare you have had. I
give you my word of honour it shall never
occur again."

He drew Judith's unresisting hand within
his own arm as he finished speaking. He
was perfectly calm and self-possessed now,
she tremulous and ill at ease. Nothing

more was said till they reached her bedroom
door, when, with the briefest and coldest of
good-nights, they parted.

Judith almost staggered into her room,
and sank down into the first chair she came
to, trying to collect her thoughts. What a
bewildering night it had been! What
months seemed to have passed since she
had lain down to rest on that moonlighted
bed ! Her dream had been strange and
oppressive enough, but what had followed
had been so doubly, trebly strange as
almost to have swept that from her memory.

What did it all, could it all mean ?

In the first place, who could have been
outside her door in the dark corridor?
That, in any case, could not have been
Wolf, for he would not have been likely
to carry about with him antique shawl-pins,
and drop them as he went along.

Well, she had possession of that pin, at
any rate, and would take good care of it.
Sooner or later it might lead to the identification
of the midnight wanderer.

72

Mechanically she stretched out her hand,
feeling for the pin on the little table where
she had placed it, so as to have one more
look at it. Felt for it, groped for it in
the dark ; but mystery upon mystery !  it
was no longer there? She lighted her
candle ; she searched for it till a candle
was no longer necessary, for the daylight
that came streaming in at the windows ;
but with no result.

The conclusion was unavoidable. Someone
must have entered her room while she
was absent, and regained possession of it.
Someone, perhaps, who had dogged her
footsteps about the house, and listened to
Wolfss wild ravings as he lay on the floor.
It as too dreadful to think of. Judith
felt her brain going round, and her limbs
beginning to fail her.

This was the final stroke to the night's
bewilderment and terror. She threw herself
on her bed, closed her eyes, and tried to
silence the whirl of thought that came
sweeping down on her ; tried to make

believe, as Wolf had suggested she should,
that the whole thing, from beginning to
end, was only a weird, wild nightmare,
that had teased and tortured her poor
brain with its grim phantasies.

she birds sang loud and louder, the
sun rose high and higher in the
heavens, yet still Judith lay upon
her bed, wide awake, her head aching,
her very eyeballs feeling scorched and
strained with the effort to solve the
mystery, or, failing that, to believe that
it was no mystery at all.

Over and over again she said to herself:
No doubt it all admits of the simplest
of explanations if I had but the commonsense
to lay my finger on it."

But, even as she said this, "commonsense
" suggested that in this case the
simplest explanation would be the least
satisfactory to accept, for it would prove

Wolf to be a man with a burdened, guilty
conscience, and would establish the fact
that this small household included in its
number a spy, or possibly a plotter, who
chose to wander about on some uncanny
errand in the dead of the night.

The prayer-bell clanged through the
house before she had roused herself from
her bewildering thoughts to begin her
morning toilette. She answered it with
a counter-bell, desiring the maid to ask
Mr. Eeece not to wait for her appearance
that morning.

Even as she was speaking to the girl,
there came a sudden sharp sound against
the window-panes of her room, as of the
rattling of small pebbles, followed by a
long, low succession of whistles, distinctly
imitative of a skylark's song as it rises
in the air.

Judith looked at the servant in amazement.


Why, surely," she exclaimed, " that
must be Mr. Oscar in the garden. He

used to wake me in that way every
morning."

The girl nodded and smiled, and explained,
half in Welsh, half in English,
that Mr. Oscar had arrived at about seven
o'clock that morning, having been travelling
all through the night from London.

Judith got through her dressing with
marvellous rapidity, and was seated at
the breakfast-table almost as soon as the
others.

It was a relief to see Oscar's bright,
happy, handsome face again. It seemed
to bring with it an atmosphere of every-dryness,
of common life from the outer
world. That hearty grip of his hand,
that semi-schoolboy slang in which he
chose to indulge, did more to disperse
the phantasms of over-night than any
amount of hard-headed logic would have
done.

He made open, undisguised love to her
all through breakfast. More than once
he got hold of her hand, and asked her

when she meant to marry him. To which

query Judith replied successively, " When
you have done growing," " When your
education is finished," and finally, the
more effectually to silence him, "When
you have taken a double-first at Oxford."

She scarcely dared to look a:, Wolf, as
they sat facing each other at table. Yet
once or twice he seemed pointedly to
address her, as though he wished their
eyes to meet. His voice seemed to her
to be drier and harder than ever. Or
was it, perhaps, that she had fuller
opportunity for noting its inflections ?
It might have been in honour of Oscar's
sudden advent, but certain it was that
since Judith's coming to the Grange he
had never been so communicative at mealtimes
before.

"We are quite a cheerful party this
morning," said Mrs. Eeece, rejoicing in
the unaccustomed flow of talk that supplemented
the rattling of the coffee-cups.

Cheerful, do you call this ? " laughed

Oscar. " I wonder what you would call
our breakfasts at The Eetreat before Dean
Swift makes his appearance ; he's always
a little late in showing, but makes up for
lost time when he does come, I assure you."

The Eetreat was the abode at Richmond,
where Oscar was being " coached " for
matriculation. Dean Swift was the master
of it, and the respected " coach " of some
half-dozen scatter-brained young fellows.
He had been so nicknamed from the
double fact of his owning to the patronymic
of Martin, and to a portly person
and slow lumbering tread.

Yes, I can imagine you young fellows
make a fine racket," said Mrs. Eeece.
w4 Xow, which is the noisiest and wildest
of you all  that Theoo you write so much
about ? "

It was Theoo who pushed you
into the river, and left you to struggle
out the best way you could, wasn't it ? "
queried Judith.

And I suppose it's Theoo who borrows

your umbrellas and hats," pursued Mrs.
Eeece, " and forgets to return them ?
For the number of these articles you've
got through this past two months has
been something wonderful."

"And uncommonly nice she looks in
my hats, too," said Oscar. " Not one
of her Sundays-going bonnets suits her
half so well as my old deer-stalker."

Her ! " exclaimed Mrs. Eeece.

"Her!" echoed Judith, and even Wolf
looked up with amazement written on
his face.

Her ? Yes, of course," said Oscar,
calmly. " I can't say ' suits she ' can I ? "

But  but," stammered Judith, " we
thought from your letters that Theoo
was a boy. She certainly plays boyish
tricks."

And so she is a boy  as veritable a
tom-boy as ever lived, but for all that a
dear little soul," answered Oscar.

I suppose she is Mr. Martin's daughter
? " questioned Mrs. Eeece. " Why,

Wolf, you told me that there were no
girls in the household at The Eetreat."

Mr. Martin told me that his youngest
daughter was still in the schoolroom, his
eldest daughter in Germany at a ' finishing '
school, and that the household was presided
over by an elderly maiden sister," answered
Wolf.

Ah, the elderly maiden sister is there
safe enough," explained Oscar. " Theoo is
still in the schoolroom, in the sense of
being always out of it, and Miss Leila
returned from Strasbourg about ten days
or a fortnight ago."

And what is Miss Leila like ? " asked
Judith, for her quick ear had caught an
inflection in Oscar's tone as he pronounced
the name, which roused her curiosity as to
the young lady's personality.

"Oh, she's she's Oh, I can't tell

you what she's like. I'm never good at
describing girls," answered Oscar with a
transparent attempt at indifference. " Give
me the coffee-pot, Wolf. Ah, I beg your

pardon, Judith ; I forgot you ' presided,'
as the novelists say, at the tea-tray now.
In the old days, Wolf and I used to hawk
the thing round the table as we wanted
it."

It's wonderful," soliloquised Mrs. Eeece,
what a number of girls there are everywhere
! With the best wishes in the
world to keep one's sons out of their way,
it's almost an impossibility. If they go upto
London and take rooms, and the landlady
is as ugly as you could wish, there
always turns up a landlady's daughter ina
day or two who is a good deal prettier
than you could wish ; if you let them go
and stay with an aunt, a cousin is safe to
make an appearance from some unexpected
quarter ; if you establish the in in a respectable
clergyman's family with only an
elderly maiden sister to look after him,
young giddy daughters spring up miraculously,
like mushrooms after a wet night,
full-grown, ready for anything. No, there's
no escaping the girls, do what one will."

Or they come sailing over from
France," laughed Judith, " begging a home
of you for two whole years, because they
have no "

But here Oscar put his hand over her
mouth, and forcibly prevented the finish of
her sentence.

If Theoo had dared speak like that''
he said, " I would have  no I wouldn't
have taken her out on the river for a
month, nor bought her ' sweeties ' for a year.
But one doesn't know how to punish you,
Judith. Now I can always make Theoo cry
with trying."

And then, I suppose, you kiss and
make it up again ! Oscar, I think I
should like to see this Theoo. You seem
such good friends with her and the other
young lady her sister," said Judith.

And I should like you to see them
also," said Oscar, growing suddenly serious.
Mother, that was one of the things that
brought me home in such a hurry. I wanted
to ask you if you would invite the young

ladies clown here for a few days. Dean Swift
is going away on business for a week or
so ; all the fellows are off shooting or
fishing : there is house-cleaning going
on from top to bottom, and only the
maiden aunt to keep us cheerful. Of
course I bolted home here, and the girls
said they wished they could bolt too."

"Invite them, mother; why not?" said
Wolf, " It will be a little society for Miss
Wynne. I am sure she must be dull
enough sometimes."

"miss Wynne'" thought Judith. "It
was s Judith ' last night." Then aloud she
said : " I am never dull. I could never be
dull in the summer in the country; but I
should like immensely to see and know these
two young ladies for Oscar's sake."

This added with a side-glance at his
slightly reddening face.

Oscar jumped up all energy.

And, Wolf, you really must get the old
place furbished up a little before they
come. Oh, you've no idea how grandly

atheistic  no, aesthetic  we all are at
Richmond ! Anything but a sage-green
wall or a blue-tiled fireplace would be
voted Philistines in the extreme."

'' There's green enough here of all
shades to choose from," said Wolf,
moodily, rising from the table to avoid a
discussion that had no attraction for him.

But Oscar was not to be silenced.

You'll let the place go to ruin  utter
ruin. Think what the next-of-kin would say
if he were any other than your respected
and much-snubbed younger brother," he
exclaimed, heedless what argument he
employed so long as Wolfss eyes were
opened to the deplorable condition of the
Grange, and the absolute necessity that
existed for repairs and renovation.

Wolf, in the act of leaving the room,
turned and faced his brother.

Ci Get that notion out of your head at
once and for ever, Oscar," he said sternly.
The place is not going to utter ruin as
you call it, and I do not intend that, under

my rule, it shall. Walls, roof, and flooring
are all sound, and in good condition, and
all necessary repairs are and shall be carried
out. But what you would advocate in the
way of decoration would mean simply
outlay, year by year, that would bring in
no return to living soul. Who would bethe
better for a half-dozen or so of extra
servants in the house, cleaning, polishing,
and spending money in every direction ; or
say, as many gardeners, hoeing, weeding,
planting, watering one year, to plant
and rearrange the next ? Talk about what
you understand, but do not interfere with
me in my management of the Grange."

As he said the last word he left the
room.

It was a long speech for the usually
curt, taciturn Wolf to make, and it was
made with an undergone of meaning which
two at least of his hearers failed to catch.

Oscar gave a long, low, whistle as the
door closed on his brother.

All the same, old man," he said, " I

VOL. I. 8

shall go at you again at the very first
opportunity on the very same matter.
Don't shake your head, mother. Wolf
needs a little crossing and thwarting now
and then. He's a born autocrat, you
know ; and I represent Parliament and the
rights of the people. Come along, Judith,
let's have the old greys out, and go for a
spin somewhere or other. I've no notion
of getting the blues on the very first day
of my holidays."

6 

V'SCAR spoke truly when he described
r Wolf as " a born autocrat' It
was a fact patent to all.

Judith found no difficulty in crediting
Mrs. Eeece's statement that even in his
first curacy, with a stipend of one hundred
pounds a year, he had had his middle-aged
vicar, and more than middle-aged
churchwardens, completely under his
thumb. He was emphatically a man born
to wield a baton rather than to wear a yoke.
His simplest requests seemed to take the
form of an order. The words " If you
please," or " Be so kind," on his lips had
the ring of a command in them.

After that one night of mystery and

82

terror, Judith, with her powers of observation
strangely quickened, fancied that
his imperiousness grew upon him hourly ;
that, in fact, it had resigned its previously
passive form for one purely active and
aggressive. His manner to her became
increasingly abrupt, and more than once,
as their eyes met at table, and on one
occasion as he rose from his knees at
morning prayer, there was an angry
challenging look in his which seemed to
say as plainly as words could : " If you
think evil of me in your heart, say it
right out at once. Tell everyone far and
near, what manner of man I am. I
can face it out."

Judith felt instinctively that this could
be but a mood with him, that by-and-by it
would pass, the inevitable reaction would
set in, and his old gloomy indifference to
men, women, and things about him would
return with redoubled force. Every day,
nay, almost every hour of every day, she
found herself wondering over him, his

sorrows, and his secrets. She longed to
raise up help for him in some quarter ;
more than once she felt tempted to rouse
Mrs. Eeece into energy on the matter, to
bid her awake to the fact that her eldest
son was having his heart burned to cinders
with some concealed sorrow ; but resisted
the temptation, her better judgment telling
her that such interference on her part
would be deeply resented by Wolf, and
little likely to lead to good results.
Besides, she felt in a measure pledged to
secrecy, not only as regarded the events
of that one mysterious night, but also as
to the facts which her own powers of
observation had revealed to her. She felt
the solemn promise she had given to Wolf
in the library in the dead of night covered
a good deal of ground, and she must
religiously keep it. She could only
wonder over the obtuseness of mother
and brother, who could sit at the same
table with him three times in the day, be
in his company some six hours out of the

twelve, and not hear the under-note of
pain in his voice, nor catch the dreariness
of his every movement and action.
Beyond a casual " Poor Wolf ! I think
he has a lot of business worries pressing
on him just now," Oscar paid not the
slightest heed to his brother's gloomy
taciturnity.

Is Oscar, like me, afraid of betraying
his brother ? " thought Judith ; " or has
he nothing but fishing-rods, guns, and
dogs on his brain ? "

It was all very puzzling, very distressing.
With the best wishes in the world
to stretch out a hand to help this man,
she found it an impossibility. Her hands
were tied, doubly tied ; first, by the
promise she had made him ; secondly,
and with a yet stronger knot, by the
consciousness that she had surprised his
sorrow ; stolen, as it were, the knowledge
of it, not had it communicated to her.

She went about the house feeling downcast
and almost guiltily miserable. The

thought that some one else beside herself
had possession of Wolf's secret, or at least
a part of it, added not a little to her
distress. She shrank, in a way she could
not account for even to herself, from
taking Mrs. Eeece into her confidence on
this matter, though the thought pressed
upon her night and day : " Who was
this person? What was he or she doing
about the house in the middle of the
night ? "

Rightly or wrongly, somehow her suspicions
settled upon old Bryce, who, for
some unexplained reason, she felt confident
bore no good-will to the master of the
house.

Xow anything more unlike to the gliding,
supple motion of a Hindoo, than the
hobbling, jerky gait of an ancient Welshwoman
could scarcely be imagined, yet
somehow Judith never caught sight of the
rugged face, the lean hand, the cavernous
eyes of the old housekeeper, without recalling
a certain native servant of her

father's, a man who eventually had been
tried for and convicted of murder. It
had all happened in her very young days,
when, as a small child, she had gone with
a black nurse for change of air to the
hills with this man (a syne) in attendance.
An English officer, a friend of Colonel
Wynne's, had in some way offended him,
and the Hindoo had waited and watched
for his opportunity, and eventually had
succeeded in shooting the officer through
the heart. Judith, as a tiny child of
seven, playing unperceived in a corner,
had seen the Hindoo creep into the room,
coil himself like a snake in his lair, watching
for his chance.

It was odd ail this should come into
her head now, after having lain forgotten
for so many years. It was odd, and it
was unpleasant, but nevertheless so it
was.

On the morning after that mysterious,
troubled night, she daringly essayed to
question Bryce as to the night she herself

had passed, shaking Oscar off her
arm, and going boldly into the housekeeper's
room to do so.

Bryce answered with a roulade of
sibilant Welsh, to which Judith returned
fire with a round of easy French, informing
the old body it was not polite to
speak to people in an unknown tongue.
Bryce replied with such a cannonade of
consonants that Judith felt convinced
they must be nothing less than anathemas,
and in her turn she sent back a
succession of short, jerky Scotch phrases
picked up from aunt Maggie, in reality a
string of Gaelic gutturals, intended to
express such commonplaces as " The
weather is fine," and " Hay at a discount."


Then they took breath, and looked at
each other.

Bryce laid down her keys, and rested
her chin in her lean, brown hand.

It's grand to have so many languages
at the tip of one's tongue," she said with

a sarcasm that would have more than
passed muster on the floor of the House
of Commons, where a little of the commodity
is made to go a great way. " How
many more do you keep in stock, Miss
Judith?"

w Only one, Hindoostanee," answered
Judith dolefully, " and I shall bring that
out next time you speak to me in Welsh."

I've neither time to listen or speak
Welsh or English this morning, miss,"
said the old body, taking up her keys
again. " What with those girls so lazy
over their work, and Mr. Oscar coming
upon us so sudden, I've enough to fill up
two mornings instead of one."

Oh," said Judith, essaying a bold
stroke, " it's a wonder since you have so
very much to do all dav long' that you
do not sleep better at night. I should
have thought you would have slept right
off till at least six o'clock in the morning.



And who can say that I do not sleep

redit off till the morning, Miss Judith ? *'
said the woman defiantly, leaning her
elbows on the table that stood before
her, and staring the young girl full in
the face.

Judith laughed and fenced.

Depend upon it, Bryce, it's all that
wicked onyx brooch you will persist in
wearing. Do you know' and here she
lowered her voice to a mysterious whisper,
"that the people at St. Andre say there
is a wicked spirit shut up in the onyx
stone, and that every evening at sunset it
comes out and worries the people who
wear it all through the night with bad
dreams."

Bryce was startled, her deep-set eyes
Hashed a sudden interest.

Is that true, Miss Judith  real truth ? "
she questioned. " Does a spirit come out
and stand before you ? A real spirit that
you could ask questions of?"

She seemed to quiver with intense
anxiety as she waited for her answer.

Even her hands, resting on the table,
showed her nervous tremor.

"So the people at St. Andre used to
say," answered Judith, delighted to have
produced an impression, and watching the
old woman narrowly. " Of course now
you will throw it away at once into the
blessed St. Govan's stream, after the
bloodstone-ring. You won't run the risk,
I am sure, of seeing an evil spirit stand
by your bedside in the dead of night ? "

"Miss Judith' exclaimed Bryce with a
desperate eagerness, " I would have the
Evil one himself stand by my side in the
dead of night if he would only answer
one question I'm wanting to ask. Yes,
the Evil one himself," she repeated, raising
her voice to an almost hysteric pitch ;
if I might ask him one question, I would
lay down my life to have answered."

Ask it of me, Bryce," said Judith
quietly, feeling herself on the edge of
another mystery now ; " you know ladies
are taught a great many things which

poor people never have time to learn.
It is possible I might be able, in part,
at any rate, to answer the question that
is troubling you so much."

Bryce looked all round her furtively,
nervously, as one might who had some
guilty, treacherous deed on hand. She
shut down the one window of the room,
and coming close to Judith's side, bent
low and whispered into[her ear :

Miss Judith, what I want to know is,
why haven't the rooks come back ? Look
there " and she pointed to a clump of tall
elms which, towering high above the
smaller firs and limes, were hung at
irregular intervals with the pretty plaited
basket-homes of the rooks, now, alas !
deserted and tenantless. " Look there,
Miss Judith, once those trees were shaking
and noisy with the stir and flutter in
them ; now they are silent as the yews
in the graveyard themselves. On the
last day of January, this year, they flew
away. It was snowing hard, the sky was

low and black, and one and all they went
away silently without a caw among them.
Xow, why haven't they come back? If
the house had its right master "

There came at this moment a rattle
of sharp raps against the window-panes,
which made the rotten old frame quake
again.

"Judith, Judith! what are you doing
all this time ? ? ' cried Oscar's voice from
without. "You might as well be interred
in a catacomb at once, as drone away the
morning in that dreary old den. I have
a hundred and one things I want you todo
for me."

Bryce started away from Judith like
some guilty thing. Judith went regretfully
out into the garden sunshine to talk
nonsense with Oscar for the remainder of
the morning.

JJIMflriHE The hundred and. one things

\0 d Oscar expected. Judith to accomplish
for him finally resolved themselves
into two, the first of which was that
she would get Wolf to buy him a hunter
to take back with him to Eichmond, " a
superb creature he had. heard of through
a friend, that was literally going begging
could, be had, in fact, for a mere song ! "

; My dear boy," laughed Judith, " why
not ask for yourself? He is your brother,
not mine. You would be just as likely
to get what you want for yourself as I
should for you."

Oscar shook his head.

"It's just this, Judith. I've got as

much out of Wolf, one way or another,
as I can reasonably expect for another
month or six weeks. He's given me a
boat of my own to keep at Eichmond ;
he's given his consent  which means, he
will supply the needful  to my going to
Switzerland with the Martins this autumn,
and to Borne with them in the winter ;
and he has more than half promised that
my allowance shall be increased next
year. Now, I'll confess I'm not a particularly
modest individual, but I ask you,
how is it possible, in the face of all this,
to go up to him and say : ' I say, old
fellow, I want something more out of
you now  a nice, jolly hunter.' "

"No, I should say it was utterly impossible,
and therefore I should give up
the idea at once, for of course it comes
to much the same thing whether you or
I ask him," answered Judith, conscious
of a strong repugnance to ask any favour
at Wolfss hands, whether small or great,
or, indeed, make any attempt to establish



a familiar, easy intercourse between
them.

Oil, it would not be at all the same
thing," protested Oscar vehemently. " You
have such a nice, gentle way of doing
things, I'd defy any man living to refuse
you what you wanted. But if I went
to Wolf, and begged it as the greatest
favour he could grant me, it wouldn't
move him one atom. He'd simply say :
Not to be thought of for a moment ;
you'd begin with neglecting your studies,
you'd end with breaking your neck.' '

"Well, I agree with Wolf; that is
exactly what you would do. Xo, I
decline the hunter affair altogether."

Oscar began to growl.

I can scarcely believe it of you,
Judith. You always gave yourself out
to be an amiable young woman. Now,
if you call this amiability, let me tell
you you are very much mistaken."

No, I won't call it amiability, but
obstinacy if you like it better. At any
vol. 1. 9

rate, I mean to be obstinate. I will
have nothing to do with the breakneck
business."

As if my neck were not my own, to
break or otherwise as I see fit ! Well, I
suppose, as you scout the idea of amiability
this afternoon, you'll say c 2>o' to my
other request. Such a small one, too  a
thing most girls would jump at doing
for a fellow, and say : ' Oscar dear, give
me something else to do for you ; that's
not worth calling a favour ! ' :

Tell me what it is, and see whether
I can 'jump at' doing it for you."

Well, it's just this, Judith," and here
Oscar broke off a big, fan-like bough of
laurentius which overshadowed the path,
and handed it to Judith for an impromptu
sun-umbrella : " I don't want you to give
yourself a mountain of trouble in the
matter, but I shall be very glad if you
yourself will see that the rooms are clean
and fit for young ladies to sleep in, supposing
I can get the two ZNIiss Martins

down here on a week's visit. My mother
will just give old Bryce an order or two,
which she will carry out or not as she
thinks fit ; and of course, as my mother
has not her sight, she is obliged to trust
entirely to the old cat. So I ask you,
will you be so condescending as to take
a survey of the rooms yourself, and see
that everything is 'just so'"

Yes, I think I will condescend so far.
But, mind, I shall expect a great deal of
gratitude, and you mustn't trouble me
often with such tremendous requests."

4; And will you please bear in mind,
when you make your survey, that in
Eichmond we live in a land of paper
dados and beaten brasses, of sage-green
plush and terra-cotta mantelpieces ? "

Ah no ; I shall try to forget all
about that. The thought of so much
grandeur would paralyse my simple
efforts at cleanliness and brightness.
Fancy, paper dados and sage-green plush
at Plas-y-Coed ! "

92

Judith, as she spoke, looked up at the
grim, lichen-shaded old structure, and
made one step as though she were going
into the house.

Oscar put himself in front of her.

Don't go in yet, Judith ; there's something
else I want you to do for me.
Not now, but by-and-by, when I give you
a nudge. I have been speaking to my
mother already on the matter, and later
on, when I speak to Wolf, I shall get
you to back me up in what I want.
The idea has come into my head lately
that my going in for Oxford is great
nonsense after all. Don't start in that
absurd manner as though something had
stung you. Supposing hy great good-fortune
I should manage to creep into
college say in a year and a half s time. I
suppose I must stay there at least three
years if I want to cut any sort of a
figure. Well, there's a good four and
a half years gone smash, and all for
nothing at all. I shall be twenty-four and

a half years old, and not have earned
one penny for myself. Think of that ! "

Judith tried to keep down her astonishment.


There are many men," she said, " who
have never all their lives long earned
one penny for themselves."

Ah, but then they step into fortunes
ready made for them, lucky dogs ! But
just think, Judith, how late in life it
would be to begin earning one's bread
at four-and-twenty. It would take at least
ten years to make any sort of income,
ike matter what I took up with. Why,
I should be quite an old man before I
should be able to settle down and
marry ! "

Settle down and marry ! " echoed
Judith, in her surprise standing still in
the middle of the path, surveying Oscar
from head to foot.

Oscar's fair face flushed a deep red.

i; Well, I suppose there's nothing very
unreasonable in a man wanting to settle

down and marry some time or other ? "
he asked irritably.

Some time or other, yes," said Judith,
beginning to recover herself ; " but your
some time or other ' ought to be such
a long way ahead that it wouldn't be
worth while thinking of it for  oh, let us
say fifteen or twenty years to come !
She broke off for a moment, then a
sudden merry light shone in her eyes.
It's Theoo ! " she cried ; " I'm positive
it's Theoo ! Xow don't get so red, Oscar,
and you needn't cut down all those carnations
so spitefully with that stick. I don't
ask you to say whether I'm right or
wrong, but I'm convinced it's Theoo."

Oscar's face took a yet deeper shade.

''- You're wrong, as usual, Miss Judith
AViseacre ! " he cried. " Theoo is a dear
good child, as I've always said, but Theoo
is a regular tomboy, and it is not
Theoo ! "

Then it's Miss Leila," said Judith with
great decision ; " I'm positive I'm right

this time, and if you deny it ever so
much I shan't believe you. Only tell me
what she is like  do, there's a good fellow.
Is she little, and brown, and sallow, like
me ? "

"She is not little, and brown, and
sallow'

Well, then, is she tall, and large,
and fair, like Martha, who brings the milk
every morning ? "

She is not in the least like Martha,
the milkmaid."

i; Then who and what is she like ? Oh,
dear, dear Oscar ! " and here Judith laid
her hand pleadingly on the young man's
arm, 4; do  do describe her to me  or
try, at any rate."

; Judith, God, in all His making, never
made anything more beautiful than Leila
Martin," answered Oscar gravely, almost
solemnly. Then he shook himself free
from Judith's hand and went straight into
the house.

VSCAE's trepidation lest the Misses
V#; Martin should not be properly-housed
during their short visit,
could scarcely be a matter for surprise to
anyone acquainted with the normal condition
of the unused sleeping apartments
at the old Grange. A more desolate,
forlorn, and shabby succession of rooms
could scarcely be imagined. So at least
thought Judith as  having first obtained
Mrs. Eeece's permission  she made the
round of them with Bryce at her
heels.

The keys creaked in the rusty locks
one after the other ; Bryce threw back
each door with an air half-defiant,

half-contemptuous, as of one who would
say : " Xo doubt you, with your modern
fastidious ways, would decline to sleep in
them, and yet better people than you
have lain in those beds." She looked up
iu Judith's face as she surveyed the faded
chintz, the carpets absolutely tattered iu
parts, the dirt-begrimed walls and ceilings,
ready to take up arms in defence of each
piece of forlorn shabbiness.

But Judith made no remark whatsoever ;
she looked in silence at some ten or
twelve bedrooms, going down odd-looking*
winding passages to get to them, and ascending
odd-looking winding stairs. So
Bryce essayed a remark which was intended
to show she was read* for any
attack upon her late master's domestic
arrangements.

"Tli' old squire," she said with a little
grin on her old face, " was not fond of
visitors after Madam Eeece died."

Xo," acquiesced Judith negatively.

t; And Master Bernard was always away

in foreign parts, both before and after his
father's death."

Yes," acquiesced Judith affirmatively.

Bryce shrugged her shoulders, with
her hand on the last lock.

It's to be hoped the young ladies who
are coming are not fond of smart rooms
with muslin and ribbons decked about,
and easy-chairs, and sofas, and foot-stools,
and such like, for they won't get them
here," she grumbled.

Evidently," was Judith's brief reply.
Then, seeing that Bryce had not yet unlocked
this, the last uninspected room,
she asked : " Is this a bedroom, Bryce 
can I go in here ? "

"It's the tapestry-room," answered Bryce,
letting her voice fall a little. "You
may go in if you like, Miss Judith ; I
would rather stay outside."

Judith went in. This was a larger
room than any she had yet seen, though,
like the others, its ceiling was low. Its
four square walls were hung with tapestry,

whose subject and colour time, with damp,
ruthless hand, had almost obliterated.
Here and there from out a grey-brown
background of cross-stitch loomed' a
russet-coloured Titanic face with that
sardonic smile on its lips which only
cross-stitch knows how to impart. Judith,
by straining her eyes and imagination
alike, could fancy she could trace the
outline of gigantic tree-boughs and enormous
chariot-wheels, and now and again
a small, childish, cherub head. She longed
to have the history of it all.

Why don't you come in and tell me
all about this room, Bryce ? " she called
to the old woman, who remained obstinately
on the other side of the threshold.

Bryce shook her head.

You'd best come out, Miss Judith ;
it's the room where the old squire died,
and "  this added in a low, reverential
whisper  " as he lay dying he said tome,
' Bryce,' he said, ' if ever anything
troubles me after I'm gone, and I can

come back, this is where you may look
to see me.' They were almost the last
words he said, Miss Judith, as he lay
dying on that bed."

Judith's eyes naturally turned towards
the bed which stood at the far end, and
in the darkest corner of the room. It
was a massive piece of furniture, square,
with four enormous pillars and heavy
cornice of carved oak. It was hung
with full, wide curtains of tapestry, which
matched in greyness and grimness the
other hangings of the room. They were
closely drawn together, so that not a
vestige of bed-covering or pillow was to
be seen.

Judith had never before set eyes on
a bedstead which presented so close a
resemblance to a sarcophagus.

Which way does this room look ? ; '
she asked, o-oin towards the window,
anxious for an excuse to throw back
the half-closed shutters, so as to fret a
better view of the dreary antiquated

relics, which she felt sure must fill every
corner.

"Let the windows be, Miss Judith,"
cried Bryce ; " you'll only see the
bleak-side of the mountains from there.
Come out and let me lock the door
again. It's ill prying into dead men's
rooms."

Judith's answer was a loud exclamation
of surprise.

Why  why, what is this ? " she cried
in a tone of alarm, standing still and
gazing at an object which at that minute
caught her eye.

From where she stood in the dim
light, it looked like a narrow veil of black
crape or gauze hanging from the ceiling
in front of and some inches below the
high oaken mantelpiece. She made one
step towards it, and then laughed outright.
It was simply and literally a veil
of black cobwebs, nothing more, spun by
the generations of house-spiders who had
carried on a peaceful existence there since

the old squire's death. Judith's merriment
excited Bryce's wrath.

t; Miss Judith," she said grimly, " it's ill
to laugh where most people would weep.
Come out of the room before something
dreadful happens. If you raise your eyes
a little higher you'll see something you
won't laugh at, I'll be bound."

Judith did raise her eyes a little higher,
till, in fact, they rested on the mantelpiece,
upon which stood one single ornament 
a huge clock of strange device in beaten
brass and bronze. The design was that
of a monument, and in place of inscription
was the round figured face of the dial.
Beside it lay an overturned bell, over
which leaned a gaunt skeleton, hammer
in hand, prepared to strike the hour. Beneath
him, in quaint characters, was
written the legend : ' ; I wasted time, and
now doth time waste me." Seen through
the black veil of cobwebs, it certainly
bore a grim and somewhat spectral
appearance.

Judith felt suddenly chilled.

You are right, Bryce," she said ;
laughter is as much out of place here
as it would be in a church."

She turned to leave the room as she
spoke, but as she neared the door, her
foot catching in a hole in the carpet,
she fell forward nearly on to her face,
barely recovering her balance.

The old flooring creaked, and there
seemed to come the faint vibrating sound
of the bell, as of the old clock striking.

Oh, Miss Judith, Miss Judith ! " cried
Bryce, her face white, her hands quaking,
what have you done ? Don't you know
there's ill luck in store for them who set
the dead man's clock going? Come outcome
out ! " and she clutched at Judith's
wrist, literally dragged her out of the
room, shutting and locking the door
behind her.

Judith felt a little disturbed with her
morning's adventure. She loved old-world
stories and mysteries as she loved her

dreams, the scent of flowers, the memory
of a song. But she loved them to be
fresh, sweet, holy poems with the ring
of some blessed truth in them, not
shadowed, as the traditions of this house
appeared to be, with a grim weirdness
that suggested evil and pain. She told
the story of the tapestry-room to Mrs.
Keene, as they sat together in the heat
of the afternoon under the shadow of the
slouching yews.

4i I did not know there was such a room
in the house," said Mrs. Eeece ; then she
in turn handed on the story to Wolf,
who was coming slowly along their path
at this moment, evidently bent on passing
them if he could do so without positive
discourtesy.

He listened with a deep attention,
standing silent and motionless in front of
them as they sat, the bright August sun
lighting up a very wan, haggard facs
under a broad beaver-hat. He made no
reply to his mother's remark that the

room ought to be opened and cleaned,
and the ghosts turned out of it.

Did you look at the other rooms ? "
he asked, turning to Judith. "Is it
possible, do you think, to make them fit
for two young ladies in a few days' time?
You know better than I do what is a
young lady's ideal in the way of a bedroom."


Judith knew what her ideal of a bedroom
was clearly enough, and the bedrooms
at Villa Eosa exactly expressed
it. She answered frankly and to the
point :

I don't think they could be made fit
for any one to sleep in in a few days"
time, unless you had an upholsterer down
from London  "

She stopped abruptly, recollecting all
in a moment Wolf's evident disinclination
to spend money on the house, and the
large outlay the having an upholsterer
from London might involve.

Wolf seemed to read her hesitation.
vol. 1. 10

"That would mean more money than
I am prepared to spend," he said with
brusque decision. " I must think it over,
and see what can be done."

A sudden idea struck Judith.

Why not let the girls have my room ?
I dare say they won't mind sleeping
together," she exclaimed. " My room has
been made so nice and comfortable, I'm
sure they would like it. I could sleep
in any of the other rooms without any
fuss of doing up. Except, perhaps in the
tapestry-room."

The last sentence was added sotto voce,
and as though she were somewhat ashamed
of the admission.

A sudden idea seemed to strike Wolf also.

They shall have my room," he said ;
it can easily be arranged to suit them.
Will you speak to Bryce, mother, about
it ? Tell her also, please, that I will meantime
go into the tapestry-room. I don't
want it turned out, and that sort of thing,
just opened and aired  nothing more."

Judith gazed at him round-eyed and
silent. Mrs. Eeece found a voice and
poured forth a volley of objections.

Of course I don't believe in haunted
rooms and rubbish of that sort," she cried,
but the room must be damp and close,
and ought to have a month's airing at
least before it's slept in. You will catch
your death some day with your mad
freaks."

But Wolf was not to be lightly turned
from his purpose, and though Bryce
raised such a storm of objections and
forebodings that Mrs. Eeece's were by
comparison with them " as moonlight unto
sunlight and as water unto wine," the
room was made ready for him, and a week
later found him duly installed therein.

<j@ <t>Sg

102

T was pleasant to think that the walls
J of the old Grange were so soon to
throw back the echo of young, merry
voices, the tread and spring of young, merry
footsteps. Judith felt her heart go np
at a bound at the thought of possible
long walks in the early morning up the
rough, misty, mountain-sides, of lazy,
twilight talks in the dim, cooing wood
with two girls of her own age, and  she
hoped  possessing her own capacity for
long country walks morning, noon, or
night.

To say truth the silence and dreariness
of the old Grange was beginning just now
to make themselves felt to her. If

only dear Uncle Pierre, soft voiced,
always striving to give pleasure, always
successful in his endeavour, could but
have crossed the threshold, bringing with
him the atmosphere of Villa Eosa, the
atmosphere which, dear Aunt Maggie had
compounded of blithe order and decorous
abandon for her own and everybody
else's delectation, what a magical change
would have been wrought at Plas-v-Coed !

Judith's heart in those days was always
going back aching and quaking to the
happy old time at Villa Eosa. None who
knew this girl slightly as did these new
friends at Plas-y-Coed, and noted her quiet,
even walk through the monotony of life
there, her intense delight in simple country
pleasures, her unfeigned interest in the
most commonplace affairs of a most commonplace
world, could have guessed of
what strong, deep passions she was capable.
"Wolf, on the day of her arrival, had described
her to his mother as looking pale
and wan. "Possibly," he had suggested,

"from her long, tiring journey." He did
not know  how could he ?  that the paleness
and wanness were the result of that
desperate rebellion, that most futile of
all battles into which the youngest and
least skilled in warfare are most prone to
plunge  a battle against the laws of God
which wrench from our clinging grasp
our nearest and dearest before we have
learnt to walk without them.

Judith had inherited, with other English
traits, that thoroimii-p-oin English habit
of shutting the door upon everything in the
shape of strong, deep feeling. Her passionate,
loving heart she could not get
rid of  there it was, and there it must
be; but no one, however prying, should
know it was there. Her long years of
French training had not sufficed to root
out this English instinct of hers. Many
good things, no doubt, she had brought
away with her from France, but not one
good thing, essentially English, had she
left behind.

M Why, you told me she was half a
French girl," exclaimed Theoo Martin
bluntly to Oscar, as she took a steady
survey of Judith from head to foot ; " but
if it were not for her firkin boots, her
big collars, and mounted-up hair, she
would be as English as I am."

It was said under Judith's very eyelids.
Oscar grew crimson and uncomfortable.

Hush-sh ! We are not at The Retreat
now, remember," he said, in a tone of
remonstrance.

Judith laughed.

And I am as English as you," she
aid. " At Villa Eosa we spoke and read
quite as much English as we do here at
the Grange. We spoke French, just as
they do Welsh here, only to the servants.'

Theoo gave her opinion of everybody
and everything about her with the same
delightful frankness. She was a large,
fair, bouncing girl of sixteen, with very
short petticoats and very thick ankles.
Her features were good, with the exception

of her mouth, which was wide and large,
without being full-lipped. Her eyes 
the bast part of her face  were of a dark
blue-grey, and were fringed with long-black
lashes.

Her glad, hearty ways won Judith's
heart at once. Somehow she seemed the
counterpart of Oscar in her blitheness,
her boyishness, and thorough determination
to take life pleasantly.

To the elder sister Judith did not feel
so drawn, in spite of her rare beauty and
grace of manner. Leila's was simply a
perfect face, the complexion of a pure
pallor, tinged with colour as delicate as
the lining of a cameo-shell ; the nose
straight, with finely-cut nostrils ; the mouth
full, with coral-red lips. Her eyes were
deeply, darkly, gloriously blue'' fringed,
like Theoo's, with long black lashes ; her
forehead low and wide ; her eyebrows
delicately pencilled ; her hair, a dark
chestnut-brown, fell in one long plait
below her waist ; her figure was tall

and stately, a little inclined to plumpness,
perhaps, and her hands and feet were,
perhaps, a little larger than she herself
would have chosen ; but, on the whole,
a more glorious creature to look at never
walked the earth.

Judith could have sat gazing at her
hour after hour, as she would have gazed
at a beautiful statue or picture, could
the laws of courtesy have permitted it.
By Leila's side she felt herself grow small,
sallow, and insignificant. With the impress
of this grand woman upon her eyes she
went up to her own room, and surveyed
herself from head to foot in the modern
cheval-glass which had been placed therefor
her. She saw reflected in it a small,
slight girl, with tiny hands and feet, a
colourless complexion, small indeterminate
features, dark hazel eyes  unripe hazel,
be it noted  and brown hair, untinged
with the faintest suspicion of gold. A
lady's face it was, a pure, true, gentle
face too, which knew well how to express

every shade of tender feeling, and which
might, under strong pressure, express
passion, poetry, tragedy all in one, but
for all that not a beautiful face, not one
that would have arrested a second glance
from a passer-by  nor even a first had
Leila Martin's shone beside it.

Judith almost laughed aloud, as she
thought of the contrast. No wonder
that poor Oscar, at his susceptible age,
had fallen victim to such rich and rare
attractions. Then there stole another
thought into her heart, a thought that
seemed to bring with it a twinge of some

 

sort, slight as a needle-prick, yet as distinct.
What would Wolf think of this
dainty young beauty? Would his eyes
be as veiled to her loveliness as they
seemed to be to everything under heaven,
lovely or unlovely alike ; or would
he succumb to her many charms as
thoroughly and rapidly as Oscar had done ?
Theoo made very merry over Oscar's
devotion to the fair Leila.

He thinks he's in love with her,"
she said, throwing her nine-stone weight
on Judith's knees, and putting a heavy
fat arm round her slender throat; "but,
bless 3 ou, he isn't. He'll get out of it
in a fortnight's time, when another new
pupil comes, and he sees Leila making
eyes at him  so," here Theoo manoeuvred
with her own dark lashes, and gave a
Leila-like glance from beneath them.
"It's the greatest fun in the world to
see them "  i.e. the pupils  " all knocked
over, one after the other, like nine-pins,
and then have to pick themselves up
again. Sometimes, however, it gets a
little too strong to be funny, at least
pa thinks so, and then he packs Leila
off to Germany for a month or so, to a
school where there are no masters. She's
always being sent off in that way. Came
back only three weeks ago, and knocked
Oscar over like winking. She asked him
to cut the ' Cornwall ' for her, and he
did it on his knees by her side. I knew

it was all up with him then, and it was.
Heavy, do you say ? You feel crushed !
Why, what a poor little sparrow you
must be, not to be able to stand my
light weight ! "

Judith could only hope and trust that
Oscar would feet over his love-sickness
as easily as Theoo prognosticated. She
feared greatly, however, that the malady
had taken too strong a hold him to be
lightly shaken off. At first it seemed
to her laughable to see Oscar so deeply
steeped in this midsummer madness, but
later on, as the depth and intensity of
his passion became manifest to her, it
seemed to her far from laughable, only
pathetic and terrible. She longed to warn
him as an elder sister might, to o to him
and say, " Look at this lovely woman
as long as you will, gaze at her as you
would at the glittering stars of heaven,
or some glorious purple sunset, but
for all that, never dream of winning
her. The stars of heaven, or the sunset

sky itself, may be yours before she
will."

But Judith's attention was before long
to be drawn from Oscar and his headlong,
eager adoration to another quarter.

At the third meal at which they had
all assembled after the arrival of these
young ladies, it was forced upon her
notice that Wolf was awakening to the
fact that an extremely beautiful young
woman was seated at table with him.
It was luncheon, which, with Theoo and
Oscar seated side by side, threatened to
be a distinctly lively, not to say uproarious
meal.

Theoo had begun well by collecting
every spoon within reach  salt, table,
dessert spoons, and making a packet of
them, had presented them to Oscar.

sci I know it's sending coals to Newcastle,
but no doubt you'll have continued use
for them," she had said saucily.

"That's one to you, Miss Theoo," Oscar
had answered, adjusting a tablespoon in

his buttonhole ; " but I'm much obliged
to you all the same, and I'll pay you
back with compound interest at the
earliest opportunity'

-What is it  what is it?" asked Mrs.
Eeece, hearing the clatter of the silver,
and wondering what it meant.

"We are savins; sweets to the sweet,
and spoons to the spoony," began the
irrepressible Theoo.

"Thistles to the foolish, a long rope
to those who want to hang themselves,"
continued Oscar.

Judith looking up from her plate of
salad at this moment, to see what effect
this How of young folly had upon Wolf,
was surprised to find his eyes fixed not
upon these noisy ones, but on the calmly
sedate Leila, who was seated sideways
to him and half-way down the table. It
was a gaze half of wonder, half of admiration,
such as she had never seen on his
face before, and which seemed to her
fancy to say : " Why did no one tell me

what a beautiful creature you are? Why
have I been left to find it out for myself? "

Psychologists, in these days, tell us
many things formerly supposed to be
beyond their ken, but they have never
yet been able to explain the magnetic
power of a beautiful face. Men and
women will disagree in their ideals of
beauty  will deny its existence where it
really is, and put forth claims for it where
it is not ; but let a beautiful man or
woman enter the room, and ever' eye,
consciously or unconsciously, willingly
or unwillingly, will pay the homage due
to the face so fair to look upon.

Wolfss eyes had seemed to Judith
hitherto veiled to anything and everything
that went on around him, a beautiful
woman comes and sits down at table
with him, and lo ! he gazes and gazes as
though he had never seen a woman's
face before.

Leila bore his steadfast look tranquilly
enough, keeping her full white lids downcast

to the damask tablecloth. For one
thing, she was accustomed to have men's
eyes fixed on her ; for another thing,
she rather liked it than otherwise. She
made a rule never to interrupt a gaze
of that sort ; she liked men, as it were,
to look their utmost, and to take a full
catalogue of her many perfections. It
made them more conscious of her power,
and better able to appreciate her smiles
aud favours when she chose to distribute
them. So Wolf looked and looked at her
from one side, and Oscar looked and
looked at her from the other, and this
young woman, fully conscious that two
pairs of eyes were fixed upon her, bore
the four-fold gaze with the serenity of
a queen of beauty gathering in her tribute-money
from her subjects and captives.

At last, when she considered that Wolf's
eyes had almost drunk their fill  she did
not wish them to be surfeited, be it noted
she lifted her eyelids, and said in that
slow, low tone she generally affected :

I am charmed with your home, Mr.
Eeece. The country is beyond anything
lovely. I should so like one afternoon
to make that little excursion to Llanrhaiadr
Oscar was speaking about."

w You shall make it this afternoon if
you like," answered Wolf, rising promptly
from his chair to give the order that the
old greys should at once be made ready
for action.

Needle-prick number two in Judith's
heart. Whence it came or wherefore
she would have found it difficult to explain,
but there it was unmistakably. Sharp,
sudden, in and out, bringing no blood
this time, just the merest beginning of
a scratch, but, nevertheless, a suggestion
of a possible wound in the days to come,
deeper, wider, more difficult to heal.

VOL. I. 11

IVM!C-<

HOW you mean to entertain these
young ladies for ten days at a
stretch," grumbled Mrs. Eeece,
"is more than I can imagine. After
you have shown them the church, the
mountains (from the bottom), the woods,
the waterfall, you'll simply be at your
wits' ends how to get through the days.
My dears, I think it would have been
far wiser for you all to have gone in a
body and stayed at their home, and done
the London sights at the same time, than
have had them down here where there lis
nothing to see and no one to speak to."

Oh, Wolf has taken the matter into
his own hands," Oscar grumbled back in

return, " and, so far as I can see, is providing
ample amusement for them  for
one of them, at any rate."

What do you mean ? " asked Mrs.
Eeece briskly. " Are you going to tell
me that Wolf has fallen in love with one of
these young ladies at first sight ? "

Can't say, I'm sure. I only know
that he is making himself deucedly agreeable
to them, and instead of shutting
himself up in the library writing sermons
all day long, he is either walking with
them about the woods or taking them
long, dusty drives to some outlandish
place or other."

"Where is Judith? Judith, are you
in the room?" called the old lady.
Come, you always speak the truth ; you
can't help it. Tell me, do you think
Wolf has fallen in love at last? With
the soft-voiced young lady of course it
must be, for the little hoyden has not
yet learnt how to attract men, whatever
she may do for the women."

112

Judith looked up a little nervously from
her book.

"I cannot tell  I do not know," she
answered hesitatingly. " You see, I know
so little about falling in love, it has never
happened to come in my way."

Anyone could see that," said Oscar,
speaking as he so often did the first thing
that came uppermost, words that he
would be safe to unsay in ten minutes'
time. " I am sure you are born to bean
old maid. Not one of those nasty,
sour old cats who do everything in their
power to make people miserable, but
one of those sweet, darling little creatures
who never have any love-affairs of their
own, and throw themselves heart and
soul into the love-making of other people."

Judith, with eyes bent once more on
her book, saw the lines describe all sorts
of curious curves and zig-zags.
 Never to have any love-affairs of her
own! It was a hard sentence to pass on
a girl not yet twenty.

"My dear," said Mrs. Eeece in a dry,
quiet tone, " a young lady of Judith's
attractions, and with her large fortune,
is not likely to lack lovers."

Oh, I forgot all about her large fortune,"
said Oscar, paying unintentionally
a compliment that would have done
credit to a Chesterfield. "You see she
makes us forget it. She never gives
herself any airs over it. Ah, there they
go again ! Off for another walk, I suppose
; " this, as the shadows of Leila and
Wolf fell athwart the windows, and then
followed their owners adown the weedy
drive towards the gate.

Later on, when Mrs. Eeece had left
the room, Oscar grumbled out his sorrows
to Judith in a yet stronger strain.

It's a confounded shame, Judith 
that's what it is," he said, going to the
window and resting his elbows on the
sill. " Why can't he leave her alone ?
Why does he want her all to himself,
morning, noon, and night? What business

has he to steal her from me, I should
like to know?"

"Steal her from you! Oh, Oscar!"
protested Judith, trying to convince herself
as much as the boy-lover that Wolf's
attentions to Leila involved no covert
idea of robbery. " Why, they are only
taking a stroll together. I don't suppose
they are more than half-a-dozen yards
from the garden-gate."

"And what does he want to stroll with
her for if he isn't in love with her ? And
why does he sit and stare at her in the
way he does if he doesn't mean anything?"


Judith remained silent. Oscar went
on:

"And what did he mean by taking
her off to Llanrhaiadr the other day all
by themselves ? "

All by themselves ! Why, Oscar,
you went also ! "

Yes, but I had to stay with the horses
while he went into the church to show

her the brasses and monuments. Why
couldn't he have let me have done it?"

"But, Oscar, you most likely couldn't
have acted cicerone as Wolf did. It
strikes me if you had taken her into
the church you would simply have
done as you did when you took me 
nodded pleasantly to the monuments,
and said : ' Xow there they all are, choose
for yourself which you like best.' "

And what if I had ! " said Oscar
almost fiercely. " Does she care two straws
for monuments or brasses, or anything
of that sort? I tell you she cares no
more for them than  than she does forme,
and she couldn't well care less for
anything under the sun ! "

His fierceness was rapidly blazing itself
out. There was an undergone of pain
now in his tone which cut Judith to
the heart. She longed to lift up a
warning voice.

]\Iy poor Oscar," she said, going over
to his side and laying her hand upon

his arm, "if you are so positive she
does not care for you, why don't you
try to get the thought of her out of
your heart? Why go on loving her
in the way you do when you know you
haven't the least chance in the world of
winning her?"

"Why  why!" reiterated Oscar, turning
round and facing Judith with renewed
fierceness ; " why do you love
the stars, the sun, the flowers  everything
that is bright and beautiful in the
world? They don't care a brass farthing
for you, do they?"

Possibly not, Oscar ; at any rate,
they do me no harm. But if the sun
suddenly took it into his head to smite
me with brain-fever, or the flowers exhaled
poison instead of fragrance  well,
I should, to say the least, keep out of
their way."

Would you ? " doubted Oscar, giving
her one long, searching look, which
brought to and then banished from her

face the quick red blood. " I very much
doubt if you'd do anything of the kind.
It strikes me, Judith, when once you
fall in love, it will be something more
than ankle-deep. Headforemost, neck-frothing,
you'll go, and no matter
what sort the fellow may turn out, you'll
stick to him like grim death itself. Wait
till your own time comes, Judith."

Judith's hand fell to her side. She made
one irresolute step as though to leave the
room, came back again, seemed to be
gathering her courage together, and a little
falteringly touched him lightly on the
shoulder.

Oscar," she said in the lowest of low
tones, " if it be really as you think  I mean,
supposing Wolf truly loves this girl as you
imagine  you will not begrudge him his
happiness, will you ? "

It was said hesitatingly, lovingly, pleadingly.
Oscar's face grew very white. It
was at least a minute before he answered,
and then his words came thick and slow.

"No, Judith, I won't begrudge him. his
happiness. I'll stand out of his way'; I
promise you that. Wolf deserves to be
happy  Heaven knows, he has done more
than ever I have towards earning happiness."


There was a long pause. It was a
scorchingly hot August morning ; from outside
there came the faint scent of honeysuckle
and jasmine, and the deep, droning
sound of a big humming-bee.

Thank you, Oscar," said Judith softly,
speaking as though he had granted her a
personal favour.

Yes," Oscar went on, as though he had
not heard her ; " Wolf has had misery and
discomfort enough in his time. Compared
with his, my life has been all sunshine. He
bore the brunt of all our poverty and
troubles in London, working like a galley-slave
for the poor people all the time.
Judith, did I ever tell you what he did in
the fever that raged five years ago, when
my father died, when the sick nurses even

refused to come and nurse the people, and
the undertakers had to be paid double to
bury them ? Why, he sold every mortal
thing he could call his own  his books, his
watch, some jewellery that had been left
him in a will ; sent away my mother and
me into the country, and literally lived with
the poor people himself. Aye ; ate, drank,
slept with them ; prayed with them ; nursed
them night and day ; was one of them till
the fever came to an end, and they got
their courage back."

Oscar said all this slowly, dwelling on his
words as though by thus recounting one by
one his brother's good deeds, he were dealing
so many successive blows to his own
jealous passion.

Judith listened, holding in her breath as
one does in the presence of some grand and
beautiful thing.

This was the man whom she had believed
to be laden with a guilty secret !

Oscar went on, half to himself, half to
Judith :

No, I'm not ungrateful. I don't forget
how he starved and stinted himself to give
me proper clothes and schooling. Begrudge
him his happiness ! No. I would double
it if I could ; but, great Heavens, at what a
cost ! " And here the poor lad bowed his
head on the window-ledge and burst into
tears.

Judith put her small arm round his broad
shoulders, and did her best to comfort him.

I know what a fool I am ; let me alone
in my folly, Judith," he said savagely. " But
sometimes I feel as though our coming hereto
The Grange had brought a curse upon
us. Oh, we were all much happier in our
poverty in London."

The happy times will come back, Oscar ;
I feel sure they will come back ! "

Will they ? I don't feel so sure. Oh,
what fools we all were to rejoice as we did
when the news of our good fortune came !
How bright and happy Wolf seemed ! Why,
he really laughed in those days. Then, when
we got here, everything seemed to change

all of a sudden, like a sun going down in
mid-day. He dismissed all the work-people
he had engaged, reduced the servants by
one half, and settled down into the gloomy,
miserable man he is now. It seemed as
though a curse fell upon him as he crossed
the threshold of the house. At the very
gates he met a child singing, he bade ' God
bless her,' gave her the last shilling he had
in his pocket, and told her to go and make
some one happy with it, entered this house,
went up into his room, read his letters, and
came downstairs a changed being. Judith,
it's my belief there's something wrong about
this place  something evil has been done
here, and we, who know nothing about it,
are paying the penalty for it."

There came a nutter and scramble along
the gravel-path at this moment, and Theoo,
with one of Oscar's wide awakes on her head,
made her appearance outside. Her dress
was dusty and disarranged, here and there
a bramble clung to it.

Judith envied Oscar the facility with

which he smoothed out the muscles of
his face, and effaced all signs of deep
feeling.

Well," said Theoo, standing in the midst
of a flower-bed, and leaning in at the
window so that her nose almost touched
Oscar's, "you are a pair of duffers and no
mistake, not to be out of doors this glorious
morning. I've been bird-nesting up among
the yews ; have I brought back a churchyard
smell with me ? "

"Bird-nesting in August! I like that?"
said Oscar contemptuously.

"And I like it, too!" retorted Theoo.
"Don't you see, Mr. Wiseacre, one must
have an object in life before one can put
forth one's best energies. I must have an
object before I can make up my mind to
climb a tree even. I say to myself, ' I'll
get as high as that nest, and put a stone in
it,' and I do  that's all. Good gracious,
Judith, how dismal you look! Have you
been crying ? What's the matter ? "

Judith has been reading the lives

o

of the saints, about St. Francis or one of
the drizzling, and it has distressed her,"
answered Oscar readily.

"Well, why shouldn't saints frizzle if
they like it? I'm sure I feel more than
half-grilled at the present moment with
this scorching sun pouring down. I say,
Oscar, can't you open your window a little
higher? I'm sure I could scramble in if
you'll stand back."

And while Theoo made her entry through
the window, Judith made her exit through
the door, and escaped to her own room fora
little quiet.

Her head was hot and aching. She
threw open wide her window. "Fresh air
brings fresh thought," Aunt Maggie had
been wont to say, and Judith had caught
from her the love of open windows, and
long breezy walks. She leaned out, looking
mountain-wards, and wondering over
many things, losing herself in the past
history and present love-stories of Oscar
and Wolf, when suddenly there came a

gentle tapping at her door, and in response
to her " Come in," much to her surprise
Leila entered the room.

She had still her hat on, as though she
had just come in from her walk.

May I come in ? " she asked, standing
well in the middle of the room. " I know
you have a cheval-glass here ; there isn't
one in my room, and I haven't looked at
myself properly since I left home. I'm
not sure about the way this dust-cloak
hangs at the back."

As she spoke she advanced towards the
glass, stood for one moment looking at her
full face, then, half-twisting her neck, tried
to get a survey of the back plaits of her
robe and loner-flowing cloak.

Certainly," was Judith's brief reply ;
then accusing herself of lack of courtesy,
she added, "Can I help you at all?" and
endeavoured to adjust the side-screws of
the glass, so as to give Leila a better view
of herself.

A lovely picture that looking-glass

framed, full of lights and shadows, sharp
contrasts and sweet harmonies. A young
woman, gloriously, sensuously beautiful ; a
goddess in her face, and an empress in her
gait ; a pale dark face, a little in the
shadows behind, whose only loveliness lay
in fulness of expression and subtle suggestions
of spirituality.

Judith felt the contrast between herself
and this young beauty in all its keenness,
yet she looked and looked into the mirror
as though the sight were a pleasant one to
her. " No wonder," she thought, " that
men should go mad over her," and yet
somehow she had fancied this man was not
one to be dazzled with a woman's face.

Leila also seemed to take a pleasure in
surveying this lifelike picture.

"I wish," she said after a long, steady
look, "I had a sister like you, just your
age and size, and everything ; it would be
so nice going out together."

Ah, nice for the one who got the
benefit of the contrast, not for the other,"
vol. 1. 12

said Judith bluntly, yet without the faintest
stirring of that envy in her heart which
only narrow intellects can harbour.

You see," Leila went on, " Theoo is not
the most companionable person in the
world to begin with, and her appearance,
though not so bad, if she would study it
and bring out its best points, is not one
to set mine off to advantage, don't you
know."

The frank selfishness of this young
woman, could it have been collected and
parcelled out, would have sufficed to arm
and protect a whole battalion of beauties
in their first season.

Theoo is a very kind, good-natured girl,
and will possibly win love where others
only win admiration," was Judith's significant
reply.

I hope she will, I am sure, for her own
sake, since she has no chance of getting
anything else," said Leila calmly : " but I
hope it won't be love and penury. I
always have an idea, somehow, that Theoo

will be a little reckless in her love-affairs.
However, it will be no business of mine."

"No business of hers," thought Judith.
"Only two sisters, and the love-making
of one to be of no concern to the other!"
However, she did not speak her thoughts.
As well, she instinctively felt, might she
argue with a soulless marble statue, as with
this exquisitely wrought piece of humanity,
on whose exterior nature had been so lavish
of her pains that she had left herself no
time to bestow the crowning gift of a
tender human heart.

Leila finished her survey, walking a little
backward from the glass to get a farewell
look.

I wouldn't have put this thing on, only
I thought Mr. Eeece was going to drive
me this morning. In the oddest manner
possible, at the last moment, he altered
his mind and proposed a walk. Do you
think he's mad, or going mad ? "

It was all said in the most even, unemotional
of voices, just as if she were saying :

122

Do you think he lias a long nose, or is
going to grow a moustache ? "

Judith shivered. This "was putting into
plain words a dread which had more than
once made itself felt in her heart. Again
and again had she wrestled with the terrible
suspicion. She did not mean to succumb
to it now on the mere suggestion of
this unsympathetic young person.

"No, I do not think so  I will not
think so. What can make you have such
a terrible idea in your mind ? You ought
to think twice before you sa r such dreadful
things," she answered with a vehemence
that made Leila lift her white lids a good
quarter-inch higher than they generally
went, and her pencilled eyebrows correspondingly.


I was not aware you took such a
strong interest in the matter. I'm sure I
beg your pardon," she said, with a little,
meaning smile that was excessively disagreeable,
and tended to ruffle Judith still
more.

How would it be possible not to take
an interest in such a matter ? " she asked
vehemently. "Think, if it were true,
what it would be to his mother and to
his brother. Why, all the happiness would
be gone out of their lives for ever'"

I suppose they would feel it ; it would
make them talked about a good deal. But
why does he act so strangely  sit and stare
at one? Now, I am accustomed to be
stared at," she added naively enough, " but
not like that, it doesn't altogether seem
admiration."

Would it be possible to look at you
without admiration?" asked Judith frankly,
anxious to lead the talk away from a subject
that chilled and frightened her.

"I suppose it would not," said Leila,
taking the compliment as a matter of
course, and giving one more look at the
graceful reflection which still confronted
her. " But one thing I must say. If Mr.
Reece is not mad, he is the oddest specimen
of sanity I ever saw. Why, he actually

told me, not half an hour ago, that
his first and only thought in life was his
mother and brother. Now, for a man at
his age to make such a statement is  well,
to say the least, highly eccentric. Hark!
there is the luncheon-bell. Thank you for
letting me come in. I must go now."

Judith, left alone, came to the unavoidable
conclusion that, whatever might bethe
infatuation of Wolf or Oscar for the
beautiful Leila, not the faintest breath of
passion stirred her heart for either the one
or the other.

[Certainly, judged by the rules which
ordinarily govern men's actions,
Wolfss conduct at this time seemed
strangely erratic and incomprehensible,
destitute of motive, and following no precedent.
His kith and kin had grown accustomed
to the transformation of the earnest,
hard-working clergyman into the taciturn,
indifferent, unoccupied dreamer, had accepted
the change, and almost ceased to
wonder at it ; then lo ! suddenly another
change had set in, gloom and taciturnity
were once more laid on one side, something
of cheerfulness (a wry, wintry sort of thing)
took possession of him. Meals, that had
been of late eaten in all but silence, were

enlivened by an interchange of words, if not
of ideas. The library, which had been his
immediate refuge after every gloomy breakfast
or dinner, saw nothing of him ; it was,
in fact, thrown open to the use of the
household generally, and a housemaid had
been allowed to enter and remove some of
the overlaying dust.

Judith, who remembered the stern, hard
look of the man, and the way in which he
had handed her out of this sanctum sanatorium
on the one occasion on which she had
dared to penetrate its mysteries, could only
hold in her breath and wonder as she saw
broom and brush doing their much-needed
work.

Mrs. Eeece seemed to feel that changes
were rife in the air, though she could
scarcely realise their nature and extent.

"It seems to me, my dear'" she said to
Judith one day as the young girl came into
the morning-room to read to her as usual
after breakfast, " that Oscar talks less than
he ever did in his life, and Wolf more 

more, at any rate, than he has for the past
three or four months. And it also strikes
me that he is showing this Miss Leila Martin
a great deal of attention ; they leave the
room together, and I hear them constantly
talking in the garden together. Xow, my
dear, isn't it so ? "

Judith, driven into a corner, was forced
to admit that Wolf was showing Miss Martin
a great deal of attention.

Well, my dear," the old lady went on,
she's not exactly the one I should have
chosen for Wolf had I been consulted on
the matter, and I must say I am a little
surprised at his choice. Of course, I'm
bound to take what you all say for granted,
that she is a very beautiful girl, but I did
not imagine that Wolf was one to be
fascinated by mere beauty. Xow tell me
honestly, did you, my dear ? "

Judith, driven into another corner, was
forced to admit that she had not thought
Wolf was one to be fascinated by mere
beauty.

4; Poor boy ! " the garrulous old lady
went on. "I suppose it's just this : he has
been thrown so little into the society of
young ladies, that he falls a victim to the
first one who makes a dead set at him. Of
course she did make a dead set at him ? "
this interrogatively.

Judith, however, had no mind to be
driven into a third corner. She took up
her book hastily.

I have brought down a poem to read
to-days"' she said. ct I hope you will like
it. I picked it up in London at the railway-station
while I was waiting for my train."

"My dear'' answered Mrs. Eeece, "I
fear I have lost my taste for poetry, just us
I have for tarts and jellies, which young
people can eat and enjoy, and never get
enough of. But never mind, you may read
it to me. If it doesn't interest me it won t
disturb my thoughts, and, in any case. I
like to hear your soft, clear voice. It
sounds so fresh and young, it brings back
young thoughts to me. Bead on."

Judith read ou.

The poem was a simple one, told by
one who had done no great thing in
poetic art, save this ; and this, though
simple, was a great poem. A poem that
might have enabled the author to ride
straight to fame and fortune had it
chanced to tickle the " one long ear " of
that "famous beast," the British reading
public. However, it had not succeeded
in performing this notable office, so it
remained the first and last poem the
writer ever achieved, or at any rate ever
published.

It told in language, destitute alike of
veneer or any poetic artifice, " the story of
a broken life."

The form of the poem was biographic,
and commenced at the period when the
man, whose history was recorded, and who
had led a dissipated, evil life in foreign
lands, was seized with a sudden penitence,
and resolved to retrace his whole life, step
by step, repairing the evil he had wrought,

and making amends to every soul lie had
injured.

A building that had been overthrown,"
he argued with himself, " could be rebuilt
exactly in its original form if people gave
but the patience, the time, the thought to
the work." Well, with infinite patience,
and time, and thought, he would rebuild his
ruined life, doing, one by one, exactly those
things which he ought to have done but
had neglected, and undoing every wrong
he had ever done to his fellow-men.

In pursuance of this idea, he collected
together all the money he had at command,
and travelled back to his native village
over the exact track he had followed on
quitting it.

His first attempt at reparation was to try
and bring two lovers together whom he
had separated. He found, however, that
the man had turned soldier, and had fallen
in battle ; the girl had married a man for
whom she had no love, and who treated
her harshly and cruelly.

His second attempt at reparation was to
seek out a young brother whom he had
thrown upon the world, because his dependence
was a trouble and an impediment
to him. The young brother, in penury and
desperation, had joined the Paris Communists,
and had been last seen throwing
petroleum on the walls of the Tuileries.

With a sinking heart the man resolved
he wou'.d stop no more on his road, but
get back to his native village as quickly
as possible, lest even there Fate might
have forestalled him.

He will, he thinks, shower his gold on
his aged father and mother, marry the
girl who loved him, and who nearly
broke her heart when he left her to
roam the world over.

He arrives at his village late in the
summer twilight. Meeting an old villager
in the streets, he asks him of his father,
mother, and former sweetheart. For all
answer, the old villager leads him to the
churchyard, and shows him three graves

side by side. The man stands horror-stricken
looking down on them. Then
he bursts into one passionate appeal
to Heaven. Why were things thus
ordained? Why was not the remaking
of a life as easy as its unmaking ? Why
could one pull to pieces, yet never be
able to put together again? Why could
one without an effort, with a wave of
the hand, or the breath of a moment,
undo a whole structure of good, and yet
with hard toil and infinite endeavour
never be able to build it up again? 
Why? Why?

And the old man standing by his side
with bowed head and folded hands,
echoed the question  Why ? Why ?

There the poem ended.

Judith's voice trembled a little as she
said the concluding " Why ? " She had
read the poem at the London railway-station
while she waited for her train ;
then it had seemed to her a simple,
touching story, nothing more.

Somehow, read now, in the gloom and
seclusion of the Grange, it seemed to
sound an undergone of pain and pathos
so deep as to be almost prophetic.

Thank you, my dear," said Mrs. Eeece
briskly, sounding her own cheery note
above every other. " It's a pretty story.
I lost part of it here and there, through
counting my stitches ; but I don't suppose
it mattered much ; in poetry, you know,
there is always a great deal one might
leave out and never miss. As I was
saying, it's a pretty story, but it seems
to me it was a great pity the young man
didn't think of going back to his friends
a year or two sooner, then he wouldn't
have had to stand at their graves, and
ask so many Whys."

The man was a selfish hound," said
another voice  a masculine one ; and
Judith, looking up, saw Wolf and Leila
Martin standing at the opened window.
We have been listening here for the
last five minutes," he explained. " I

repeat, the man was a selfish hound, and
his ' Why ? why ? ' nothing more than
the whine of a whipped cur. He sinned for
himself (not for others), and he gets the
punishment in himself, in his own soul.
Depend upon it, his people were much
better off without him."

No, no, no, my dear," interrupted
Mrs. Eeece, buckling to for an argument ;
that's too hard a thing to say Xo
parents can be better off without their
children, no matter what those children
may be, or may do. Depend upon it,
this poor father and mother broke their
hearts fretting for his return."

Better break their own hearts than
have them broken for them," said Wolf
with a laugh that was not pleasant to
hear. " They would have had an equivalent
for their breaking hearts, depend
upon it, if he had stayed in his home
and brought shame and dishonour within
their doors. Xo, I repeat," and here his
voice grew loud and defiant, " if a man

brings disgrace upon his kith and kin,
the kindest thing he can do is to take
himself and his disgrace as far away from
the old roof-tree as possible."

Judith could keep silence no longer.

I should call that the most cowardly
not the kindest thing he could do," she
said, speaking up bravely. " Surely it
would be far nobler to stand in one's
own place, face the evil one has done,
and endeavour to repair it, than to runaway
and hide oneself for safety round
a corner."

Two questions, Miss Wynne," said
Wolf, turning his deep-set eyes on her.
Might not the running away under certain
conditions, require more courage than
the standing in one's own place ? And, must
the running away of necessity be dictated
by selfish motives ? Might it not be
done from suggestions of Christian charity
and regard for the welfare of others ? "

He 1 threw a depth of meaning into his
question which startled her.

vol. 1. 13

It was positively a relief to hear Leila
Martin's voice chime in at this moment
with the calmly matter-of-fact question :

But why read such melancholy stories
at all? There are so many pretty, light
poems now to be had. I'm sure every
month in the magazines one sees such
interesting verses  nice things that would
set delightfully to music."

Exactly," said Wolf with the slightest
touch of sarcasm in his tone ; " why
should we listen to anything horrible and
distressing, when life is so evidently intended
to be easy, and pleasant, and
enjoyable ? "

"That's just what I meant," agreed
Leila, whose ear was not quick to detect
subtle shades of voice or speech. "Life.
of course, was given us to enjoy ; why
should we make ourselves miserable with
reading about other people's troubles that
we have no power to prevent ? It's
always marvellous to me how people can
take up a newspaper, and deliberately

set themselves to read all the horrible
things that go on in the world."

"Ah," interrupted Mrs. Eeece. "We
used to hear enough of horrors in the
old days, didn't we, Wolf? At one time
I remember an epidemic of horrors seemed
to set in, one thing followed the other
so rapidly. Well, we were used to it
then, I suppose, and we did our best
under it, but I must say I shouldn't like
to have to go through it all again. Poor
people are very worrying ; they like to
tell their horrible stories over and over
again, for the pleasure of seeing your
flesh creep, I suppose. No, I shouldn't
like those old days to come back again."

"Wouldn't you, mother?" asked Wolf
in an earnest, startled tone, as though
some sudden idea had occurred to him.
"Would you not for any consideration
go through all those old days of poverty
and hardship, with the perpetual sense of
squalor and misery about one, and the perpetual
necessity for hopeless, hard work ? "

132

Oscar, coming into the room at this
moment, heard the question.

Well, my dear," answered Mrs. Eeece,
"that is rather a difficult question to
answer. I won't say I wouldn't for any
consideration go back to the old days,
but I am really and truly thankful no
such necessity exists. I verily believe
six weeks of the East of London would
send me to my grave after this peaceful,
happy life and pure country air. And
of the two, I honestly think the grave
would be the better place for an old body
like me."

A change swept over Wolfss face ; the
eager earnestness died out of it. He turned
to Oscar.

What do you say ? " he asked ; "do
you think the grave would be a better
place than the East End of London in the
height or depth of its wretchedness ? "

Oscar hesitated a moment. He looked
at Judith, remembering his words of the
previous day in praise of their old life.

He had meant them as he said them.
Seen from a distance, those old days
might " loom into the perfect star," but
let them come but by half an inch nearer,
and they would show as the miserable
prison-house they in reality were.

I don't know about the grave," he
answered slowly, " one doesn't care about
ending life before it is well begun, but I
know this  that sooner than go back to
the old, hard-working, poverty-stricken life,
I would go and break stones in the quarry
on the other side of those mountains."

Wolf turned away from the window
without another word.

Leila looked at Judith and gave a
little shrug of her shoulders, which was
intended to say : " Did I not tell you
he was on the verge of madness ? Would
anyone in possession of all his faculties
walk away in that abrupt fashion when
he might have had the benefit of my
society for another half-hour before luncheon
?"

P||SpOLF still retained possession of
Judith's bloodstone, and wore
it on the little finger of his
left hand. Judith would have liked to
ask for its return, but somehow could
never find the opportunity. There had
seemed to grow up between them of late
a something of chilliness and reserve
which she did not care to attempt to
bridge over. Once or twice, it is true,
she had caught his eyes fixed upon her
with the same earnest, appealing look
she had surprised in them in the first
days of their acquaintance, but they as
often as not wandered from her face to
Leila's, and there they would rest, evidently

without the smallest compunction,
for five or ten minutes at a time.

He is putting us side by side, and
measuring the distance between us,"
thought Judith a little bitterly. This
was exactly what he was doing, although
not precisely in the manner nor with
the result she imagined.

Wolfss diamond-ring she had been compelled
to put on one side ; it was too
large for any one of her fingers, and
she was afraid of losing it. She let it
lie in her drawer till she should have the
opportunity of returning it, and asking
for her own. Wolf did not seem to
notice its absence from her finger, or
at any rate made no remark upon the
matter. Bryce did, however, with a
scowl and a frown  those keen old eyes
of hers saw a great deal more than people
thought.

Have you lost it  the master's ring,
I mean ? " she asked on the first morning
that Judith made her appearance without it.

No," answered Judith ; " it was too
large, that was all, and would keep
slipping off my finger."

Bryce shook her head, and went away
grumbling, the only words which reached
Judith's ear, as her footsteps died away
in the distance, being, " It's ill giving a
slipping ring," or something of the sort.

Poor old Bryce seemed always frowning
and scowling in those days ; she went
about the house with a perpetual sense
of the approach of some direful calamity
weighing her down. The episode of the
bloodstone-ring had been bad enough,
but the unlocking and occupying of the
tapestry-room was as much beyond that
as the blue mountains 'that looked down
on them were beyond the dark wood.
To her fancy this room was as sacred as
the consecrated church in the vale of
Llanrhaiadr, or the vault in its churchyard,
where lay some generations of the Eeece
family.

None but Master Bernard, or Master

Bernard's son, should have dared to give
the order for the unlocking and occupying
of this room ; failing these, it should
have been kept sacred to the memory of
the old squire, who, with dim, fixing eyes,
had said to her :

Bryce, if ever anything troubles me,
and I can come back to you, look forme
here."

Did " the master "  in this way she
invariably spoke and thought of Wolf 
really wish to bring the old squire's
ghost from the grave that he dared the
traditions of the house in this way ? Well,
those who lived the longest would see the
most, but it was ill to put the axe to
the root of one's own tree," and so forth
and so forth.

Wolfss defiance of the family traditions
set her mind ruminating on other possibilities.
Now that all known precedent
was being so ruthlessly set on one side,
what might not be her own fate in the
years to come?

She confronted Wolf one day in one
of the narrow corridors, barring his
progress with a peremptory question.

I'm wanting to know," she said in
her old, creaking voice, " where you
mean to bury me ? Now all the Braces
have for generations been laid just behind
the Eeece vault in graves six feet deep
do you see ? and there's room left for one
more  is that where you mean me to lie ? "

Wolf stared at her vacantly. It was
full a minute and a half before her
meaning dawned upon him.

My good soul," he said at length,
arrange for your own burying where,
when, and how you please. Put it all
down in your will, and then no one will
make any mistake on the matter, or arrange
it all with the rector of Llaarhaiadr, if
that will suit you better."

The old body's question brought back
to his memory sundry similar matters he
had arranged for the poor people during
his East London ministrations.

By a coincidence the rector of Llanr-
haiadr came over that afternoon to the
Grange to ask Wolf to perform the service
for him on the following Sunday.

It was not often that he paid a visit to
Mrs. Eeece or her son. The reason was
not difficult to find. He was old and
stout, and his cob was old and stout ;
they each preferred a quiet half-hour's
jog-trot along the shady lanes which
begirt the Yale of Llanrhaiadr, to the
seven miles steep road with which a ride
to the Grange made them acquainted.

The rector came upon Judith first in
the garden. He was white-haired and
venerable in appearance, his manners
were kindly, his questions irrepressible,
his exclamations excessive.

Dear me, dear me ! " he exclaimed ashe
shook hands with her. "What a
wilderness of a place this has run into !
Are they going away ? Don't they care
for the Grange ? I know the old squire
didn't keep it up as it ought to have

been kept up. Great pity! Pretty place!
Might be made very comfortable. I know,
too, the old man left all the money he
could away from the family, but still he
couldn't leave it all to the infirmary. A
very good income goes with the estate.
It's a great pity to let a place go to rack
and ruin in this way."

To Judith's immense relief Wolf appeared
upon the scene at this moment, and she
was able to make her escape from further
questioning.

Who says I let the place go to rack
and-ruin ? " he asked in an angry tone
as he shook hands with the rector; "I
beg you to observe there is neither rack
nor ruin anywhere. I do not keep a
gardener  that is all. But one gardener
would be of no possible use, it would
require five at least to keep these grounds
even neat, and, as I do not choose to goto
that expense, I let the garden alone.
It is the same in the house ; it would require
some extra ten servants to make the house

look smart and trim. I do not choose
to go to that expense, so I let the house
alone. I beg you to observe that all
you are pleased to call rack and ruin
is a lack of purely superficial renovation
purely superficial, I repeat. The dilapidation
is entirely on the surface."

The rector looked and felt " sat upon."
The long-mindedness of the explanation
amazed him. He hastened to agree with
Wolf that the repairs needed were 'purely
superficial " ones, and then he dashed
into his request, " Would Mr. Eeece
undertake the service for him next Sunday ?
An old friend in a distant part of the
country had sent him an invitation he
much wished to accept."

Wolf frowned, and shook his head.

My Welsh would not be up to the
mark," he said.

It's the English Sunday," answered
the rector, " and even if it were not, you
might make it so for once. I assure you
all the people about Llanrhaiadr understand

English perfectly, even if they
cannot speak it."

Again Wolf shook his head.

I could not possibly undertake it,"
he said curtly.

It would be a real kindness," pleaded
the rector ; " and," he added kindly, " you
would in this way introduce yourself to
your neighbours on the other side of
Llanrhaiadr. I assure you they have been
talking a good deal about you. You
know there are the Howellss and the
Madoxes, Lord and Lady Euthlyn, and
some half-dozen others."

I have not the slightest wish to make
the acquaintance of the Howellss or the
Madoxes, or Lord and Lady Euthlyn,
or some half-dozen others."

The rector stared at him blankly fora
moment ; then he recovered his powers
of speech.

As a purely personal favour I ask it,
my young friend," he said gently.

I regret I must refuse it," answered

Wolf coldly ; and to this resolution he
adhered, and the good rector went away
convinced in his own mind that the new
master of Plas-y-Coed was not only one
of the worst-mannered men he had ever
met, but a most eccentric individual into
the bargain.

Ate

rasjMrua (

5 tennis-ground ; a piano so liope-
5 lessly out of tune that no one

with an ear for music would essay
a chord on it ; no saddle-horses, no river,
and, direst calamity of all, neither visiting
nor visitable neighbours, and the difficulty
of entertaining two somewhat buoyant
young ladies in a lonely country-house
in the blithest time of year may be
imagined.

Each day's programme was of necessity
as unalterable as the course of the sun
itself. There was the inevitable early
breakfast, and the inevitable morning walk
afterwards ; the one o'clock luncheon,
the three o'clock drive, the six o'clock

dinner, coffee in some arbour or bowery
corner of the garden, prayers at nine
o'clock, and all in bed by ten.

And on this meagre diet two young
ladies accustomed to the movement and
excitement of a lively suburban coterie
the outside ring of the London vortex,
as it were  were expected to thrive and
be content.

Leila's yawns at night-time were so
frequent and prolonged as to threaten
dislocation of the jaw.

It's all very well for you, Theoo,"
she grumbled, " who like to tear about
the country, climbing five-barred gates,
and doing all sorts of wonderful things
showing your ankles, which, by the
way, might be made to look a little more
respectable  such boots the other day !

But for me Oh ! ah-heh ! " And

here the muscles of her pretty mouth
relaxed into a genuine, unaffected yawn
of which few would have supposed Leila,
the refined, the poetic, capable.

vol. 1. 14

It's better than Sophonisba ! " said
Theoo with a grin.

Now, Sophonisba was Dr. Martin's
elderly spinster sister, so-called by the
schoolboy wits of The Ee treat from the
fact of her avowed admiration for the
genius of the poet Thomson. It maybe
remarked in passing that the said
admiration was duly exhibited by her
selecting on every Sunday afternoon " The
Seasons " to fall asleep over on the
drawing-room couch.

Yes, it's better than Sophonisba,"
acquiesced Leila, " or else we shouldn't be
here ; but a great deal worse than a great
many other things we might have done.
Think how delightful a fortnight at Scarborough
would have been just now ! "

Theoo gave a long whistle.

"And who would pay the piper, I
should like to know ? " she asked. " You
see, pa only said ' Yes ' to our coming
here because there was nothing but our
railway-fares to come out of his pocket."

Theoo, you get more and more vulgar
every day you live," interrupted Leila
sharply. "What you'll be in another
year I don't know ! "

Ah, nobody knows what they'll be
in another year. Dust and ashes, it might
be," answered Theoo, thinking only of
emphasis, and regardless of grammar.
"But I know what I'd like to be" 
this with a malicious upward look into
Leila's face  " and that's as near like
Judith Wynne as possible. She's about
the only girl in my life I've never wanted
to have a shindy with. One might be
in the same house with her from year's
end to year's end, and never have a
squabble."

I don't admire your taste, and I think
it's a question whether Judith Wynne
would take your admiration for a compliment,"
said Leila, a decided sneer
disfiguring her chiselled mouth. " But I
do think that, without following your
model too slavishly, you would certainly

142

improve your own style if you would
copy a little of her silence and reserve
of manner. Not that I believe in it
altogether. Your quiet, reserved girls are
generally the sly, clever manoeuvres. I've
no doubt in my own mind that Mille.
Paroles has a lover of her own, left
behind in France  see what huge packets
of letters she gets  and that's why sh
so contented in this humdrum old house."

Now the nickname "Mille. Paroles,"
be it noted, was not an original conception
of Miss Leila's, but was imitated from
one she had heard applied to a silent
fellow-student by the schoolboy scamps at
The Retreat.

Leila did not understand the Hesperian
allusion  shoemakers' wives and
daughters are proverbially the worst
shod. Of English literature she and
Theoo knew next to nothing, their intellects
having been nourished upon
modern novels of various shades of
weakness and frivolity.

Tho flashed into indignation at the
charges brought against Judith.

She sly! Why, she's as oj 9 the

day itself. The foreign letters all come
from her old uncle in Franc She told

me so, and if she doesn't speak the truth
well, I never met anybody who did,
that's all."

 I )ii !  ah-h ! " yawned Leila again. " I
no necessity for prolonging the
discussion. Good night."

And at this very moment Judith, in
own room at the other side of the hous .

ted at her open window, with a packet
of the aforesaid foreign letters on her knee.
They were not all from Uncle Pierre I
time. One was from Manor, the hoi
servant at Villa Rosa, thanking mademoiselle
for the little parcel of English stuffs and
ribbons she had duly Another

was from the old gardener, sending his
teful thanks for mademoiselle's kind
i" English Stockings. A third
was from a little village girl whom

Judith had taught to read and write,
telling " Mademoiselle Judeethe " that she
could never forget her goodness, and
that night and day she besought " Le
boil Dieu che ltd accorder sa douce benediction."


The fourth was from Uncle Pierre.
This Judith kept till the last to read. It
was brief, and almost apostolic in its
fervour. The English in parts was quaint
and individual.

I to you send, dear child," he wrote,
the first flowers that have flourished on
Aunt Maggie's grave  mignonette and

DO o c

amaranth. Let them take to you from me,
from her, a message of sweetness and peace.
Never forget how we prayed for you that
God Himself would keep you when you
lay down and slept, when you rose up and
went your way. Dear child, always remember,
in darkness and light, in sorrow and in
joy, good angels are about your path, to
keep your feet from slipping, to guard

your head with their outstretched wings. 
Adieu, cherie.

Your father in heart,

Old Uncle Pierre."

Judith with her tears watered the half-faded
flowers. Her letter lay upon her
knee : she clasped her hands across her
eyes, and leaning back in her chair, wandered
in spirit to Villa Rosa once more.

Phantom after phantom, with solemn,
silent feet, trooped past, came back again,
and vanished once more. The servants of
the neat, trim household, the quaint, old-world
villagers, a weird army headed always
by dear Aunt Maggie, tall, stately,
in her dark satins and lace, and dear Uncle
Pierre in his priest's dress, white-haired,
with stooping shoulders, and eyes as blue
as the forget-me-nots which grew among
the rushes on the river's bank.

Ah me ! what sweet, blessed days those
were ! Rich in love, full of peace and
every simple pleasure ! Why did they

ever come to an end ? Why had they not
been allowed to 0 on till duty had ended
them, and she had been called by her
father to fill another niche in life ? Why
had she not been allowed to stay and
comfort dear Uncle Pierre in his loneliness
and sorrow? That would have been a
work worth doing. Why had she been thrust
here onions strangers with whom she could
have no common bond, where no useful,
no definite work of any sort or kind could
be given her save that of patient endurance
of the dreary months and weeks as they
crept by?

Surely, if her father could personally
have taken a bird's-eye view of these two
households which in turn were her home,
he could not by any possibility have
wished her to exchange one for the other.
There, all had been peacefulness, love, and
calm enjoyment ; here everything seemed
disjointed, troubled and misruled. The
very air seemed full of mystery ; distrust
and suspicion seemed on every side. Do

what she would, she could not divest herself
of a sense of coming evil  of some
hidden terror hanging over the heads of
the household.

She would not let herself dwell on a
certain dull pain in the depths of her
heart which of late had made itself felt,
but, all the same, she knew it was there,
and it doubtless added its quota to her
sense of loneliness and desolation.

While she had been sitting thus reading
her letters and dreaming over her past and
present, time had slipped on ; the moon
had sunk behind the mountains ; the midnight
sky showed black, starless, forlorn.
A chill breeze swept into the room ; the
old yews beneath her window tossed their
ancient, creaking arms ; a mghtbird new
past with a plaintive cry.

It was all very desolate and forlorn.
The old Grange was dreary enough in full
noonday sunlight, but here, with this midnight
blackness falling over it like a pall,
it seemed gruesome and eerie to the last

degree. Her very room seemed full of
ghost-like shadows ; her one candle only
sufficed to throw a feeble ring of light
around the small table on which it stood,
and as she looked hither and thither up
and down the big and scantily-furnished
room, from every corner she could
conjure grim phantoms of goblin shapes.

Dear child, always remember, in darkness
and in light, good angels are about
your path to guard your head with their
outstretched wings ! "

The words seemed spoken right into
Judith's ear, as with distinct human
utterance.

It was as though some strong, authoritative
voice had said, " Down ! ? ' to the evil
fancies and phantoms, as one would speak
to a turbulent, troublesome dog.

Weariness, gruesomeness, and dark corners
all vanished together, and in their stead
came a sense of peace, of safety, of quiet
confidence.

She closed her eyes, leaned back in her



chair in the darkness. Even the chill night
breeze, which swept in at the opened window
across her face, seemed to her like the
cold wings of the blessed angels themselves
fanning her to sleep.

npID she really fall asleep, and if so,
eJ|IJF' how many minutes had she sat
there unconscious, before there
seemed to sound a voice in her ear saying
piteously, passionately :

Help me  help me!"

Judith passed her hand over her forehead.
Whence did the voice come?
What did it mean? Her room was in
total darkness now, for the candle had
burned itself out, and not the faintest
grey of dawn had as yet lightened the
ink-black of the night sky. A soft, cold
wind still came in at the open window,
a shadowy bat flitted past.

Judith leaned out, peering down into

the damp, vault-like darkness of the
garden below. Had the voice come from
there ? Was there some living, suffering
soul down there sending up a petition for
help ? She held her breath and listened.

There came up to her the creaking of
the old yew-boughs, the slow, low rush of
the breeze, the faraway sound of falling
water in the woods. Nothing more.

She closed her window. Could it have
been her fancy after all : or had the voice
called from within the house? She looked
all round her. The bi ancient furniture
of her room loomed gaunt and drear
out of the darkness. The corners filled,
emptied themselves of, and re-filled with
shadows.

Help me, help me ! " sounded the
voice, piteously and imploringly as before.

It was as the voice of some troubled
dreamer, who thinks he is shouting with
his utmost strength, but whose cry is in
reality little above that of a wailing child ;
and it was the voice of Wolf Eeece.

Judith felt her blood grow chill, and her
limbs tremble beneath her. But she would
not wait for another appeal. Along the
darkness, groping her way, she went,
dreading she knew not what.

Her room was at the end of a long
narrow corridor, which, interrupted and
crossed by small passages, ran round the
house, and into which all the bedrooms
on that floor opened.

Mrs. Eeece's room and that of the
Martin girls were at the other end of this
corridor, Oscar's on the floor above. Eight
and left of her were two unoccupied
rooms ; immediately fsicmg her door was
a narrow passage which led to the servants'
quarters, and a little to the right
of this was a short flight of five stairs
which led up to the tapestry room, now
occupied by Wolf.

Along this corridor, as Judith opened
her door, the darkness seemed to lie
in thick folds, which a feeble stream
of light straggling down the small

flight of five stairs tried in vain to
pierce.

Judith, straining her eyes, could barely
trace the outline of a man's figure on the
topmost stair. She could just see that
he leaned against the wall with his head
on his arm face downwards ; but she
knew in a moment that those broad
shoulders, that bowed head, were Wolf
Eeece's. None other.

Help me ! " he moaned again piteously,
prayerfully. " God send help to me of
some sort ! " And Judith crossed the
corridor, came and stood by his side,
and touched his arm.

He raised his head slowly, and looked at
her for a moment, without the slightest
gleam of recognition. His face was white
and haggard, his forehead was knotted into
a heavy frown, one large vein protruding
like a massive cord.

I have come to help you if I can,"
said Judith softly, wondering whether her
voice would recall his scattered senses.

He clutched at her arm.

You  you ! " he cried, surveying her
with lack-lustre eyes.

Then, right and left, up and down, and
around, his gaze wandered, as though
seeking in the darkness for something he
knew was there, yet could not see.

Judith followed his gaze.

What is it ? " she asked, determined,
if possible, to search out this matter to
the depths.

His hand, still on her arm, grew
tremulous.

"Do you see anyone  anything?" he
asked in a hoarse scared whisper.

Judith shook her head.

One cannot see even the darkness,"
she answered, trying purposely to assume
a careless matter-of-fact tone ; " but if you
will lend me your candle I will go along
the corridor and see if anyone is there."

He scarcely seemed to hear her.

It went that way  that way," he
muttered.

Then he passed his hand across his eyes
as though to shut out some dread sight,
and Judith could see that he trembled
from head to foot as one might who
had suddenly been confronted with an
embodiment of the terrors of the grave
stripped of its conventionalities and
comeliness.

It was terrible to Judith to see this
strong man so palsied and shaken.

"What is it?" she asked; "tell me.
I may be able to see what you have
seen if you will describe it to me."

I pray God no ! " the words seemed
to come from the very bottom of his
heart, strong and clear. Then he went
on passionately : " Child, child, why do
you trouble about me? Why do you
not leave me to my fate ? Why do you
torture yourself with the sight of a misery
you cannot help? Let me alone, and
forget what you have seen to-night."

"I cannot do that. I would rather
stay here and help you if possible."
vol. 1. 15

Wolf looked at her with a sad, puzzled
expression.

Why should you wish to help me 
why  why ? " he asked.

"Because I see you are ill and suffering,
and my heart aches for you."

It was said in low quiet tones, but
their depth of meaning, was unmistakable

Child, child, have you no fear, no
terror ? What if it were given to you to
see the thing that I saw a moment ago ?
Could you look upon it and live ? " he
asked.

I have no fear, no terror, of the sort
you mean ; and if you tell me what you
have seen, I would tell you whether I
could bear the sight of it," answered
Judith, strong in her recovered faith in
her angel guardians.

Wolf looked at her fixedly for a
moment or two.

"I know I may trust you," he said in
low tones, as though he were communing
with his own thoughts. " This is the

second time you have stood by me in a
moment of torture." He broke off, and
then resumed in a more ordinary voice :
Tell me, Judith. Your conscience is pure,
and young, and clear ; but supposing it
grew suddenly clouded : supposing in one
miserable, fatal moment, you did a deed
impossible to undo  mind, I say impossible
to undo  a thing which, if told, would
bring ignominy, disgrace, and absolute
beggary on you and yours. What would
you do ?  what would be your re huge ?
Suicide or prayer?"

The last three words were spoken in a
tone more than half cynical, altogether
despairing.

Prayer," answered Judith promptly. " I
should tell it to God before I told it to
living soul. But," she added suddenly,
looking up in his face with those calm,
ruth-speaking eyes of hers, " I should
make very sure that it could not by any
possibility be undone. I would die in my
efforts to make amends for my sin."

152

Wolf stamped his foot passionately.

"Child, I said could not be undone
Do you not understand ? " he cried
vehemently. "There are things in life
that cannot be undone  are there not ? "

Yes, many. In that case I would
pray that I might be shown how I could
atone for my sin, though it might cost
me my life."

And supposing your atonement would
bring pain, and infamy, and beggary on
those you loved best  what then ? " asked
Wolf in a voice that seemed to jangle and
vibrate with the restraint he put on it.

Judith's eyes drooped. For a moment
she made no reply. Wolf went on :

You loved your Aunt Maggie, your
Uncle Pierre, deeply, truly  was it not so ?
Very well, then. Supposing you knew
jour atonement would bring down chastisement
on their heads, and send them
broken-hearted to their graves  what
then?"

Judith's eyes filled with passionate tears.

Oh, why are things so ? " she cried
vehemently. "Why cannot we each one
suffer alone for the deeds that we do?
Oh, I would pray night and day that I
might be shown a way of repentance, a
way by which I alone might suffer for
the deed I had done, and they might
go free ! "

Out of Wolf's face faded the shadow
of a gleam of hope which a moment
ago had shone there. He grew white,
haggard, stern.

And supposing you did this ? " he
asked. " Supposing you knelt and prayed
night and day, night and day ; supposing
you grew strong and bold in your prayers
and craved a sign, a message, and there

came " Here he broke off abruptly, laid

his hand upon her wrist. " Come here,"
he said, and led her up the small flight
of stairs to the door of his room.

Evil and weird enough it looked in
the light of the one candle that burned
upon the toilet-table. The tapestry hung

grim and grey upon the walls, seraph's
heads and giant's hands alike obliterated
in the heavy shadows cast by the
massive, ancient furniture. Out of
their midst, gaunt and drear, loomed the
sarcophagus-like bed on which the old
squire had died.

Wolf stood beside her at the door,
pointing to it.

Supposing," he went on, " you knelt
there praying instead of sleeping, not
one night but night after night  praying
for a message, a sign, and for all
answer there came to you "  here his
voice sank to a hoarse whisper  " an
awful shape, near, nearer, till you felt
its coldness touching your cheek, your
hand ; supposing when it stood close to
you  close, mind, I say  you saw that
its hands were red with blood : supposing
when you looked up into" its face you
saw that it was your own ! Ah, God ! " he
broke off with a groan, " it is there again.
Help me ! help me ! " he cried in the

same piteous, passionate tones Judith had
heard before. " Oh, it comes nearer !
Now it stands before the light, and shuts
it out ! Ah, Heaven have mercy ! " His
face grew livid with terror, his eyes
were wild and fixed, his strong frame
quivered.

Judith, straining her eyes into the
shadows of the room, could see nothing.
She took his hand gently :

Come away from this room," she
said. " It is full of dreary shadows.
Come out into the fresh air. See, day is
beginning to break ; " and she pointed to
the grey shreds of light beginning to
creep through the farthest window. "You
will lose your senses if you stay here."

He let her lead him like a little child
down the stairs and along the corridor,
walking dumbly, unresisting, as one
might under the influence of some heavy
drug.

Something dark just within the narrow
passage leading off the corridor to the

servants' quarters caught Judith's eye as
she passed along. It was only a pair
of strong, large country shoes  nothing
more.

Down the large staircase she led him,
thence across the first and second halls
out on to the stretch of lawn that fronted
the house. The air blew fresh and chill.
Here and there the night sky was rent
asunder, and the grey of dawn as from a
prison-house was finding its way in threads
and narrow streaks. The mountains were
beginning to show their giant forms and
fantastic crags from out the mists, the
wood to loom forth in its dun greenness.

Judith felt as one might feel, escaped
from a cavernous vault or dismal dungeon.
Out here she could breathe and think once
more.

Wolf drew a long breath, and passed
his hand over his ashen face.

Thank you," was all he said  all indeed
he seemed capable of saying. Even
out there in the fresh air he staggered,

and would have fallen had it not been
for the trunk of a tree at hand.

Judith brought him one of the garden-chairs.
He sank into it without a word.

"Shall I fetch you water or wine?" she
asked.

No, thank you ; leave me now. I
shall soon be all right again. By breakfasting
I shall be quite myself," he
answered with a feeble attempt at a
smile.

Judith went back to the house, and
straight up to her own room, disturbed
and tremulous.

As she passed the narrow passage leading
off the corridor she looked in vain
for the pair of large country shoes. They
had disappeared.

H

IpUDITH felt how white and haggard
jLJ? she must have looked that morning
at breakfast, when she saw
Leila's dark, brilliant eyes fixed upon
her. Theoo openly expressed her opinion
of her personal appearance.

Why, you look as if you had been
seeing ghosts all night, Judith," she exclaimed,
making a random shot that went
very near to hitting the mark.

Ah, tell us what it was like," cried
Oscar, looking up from his plate ; " we
only want a ghost to make our house
the most respectably dismal one in all
Wales."

Wolf did not make his appearance at

breakfast. Judith was late in coming
down that morning, and the information
came to her through Mrs. Eeece that
Wolf had been down, read prayers as
usual, and had had coffee taken to him
in his study, as he had many letters to
read and to write.

Leila was a little silent and absent,
her head was turned often towards the
door, with a half-puzzled, half-expectant
look in her eyes. It was the last morning
the sisters were to spend at the
Grange. To her it seemed a monstrous
and incomprehensible thing that an avowed
and devoted admirer should not make the
most of, get all the honey he could out
of, the last few golden half-hours she had
to bestow on him.

Oscar was to escort the young ladies
to London, where they were to spend a
night or two with some near relatives.
He, poor lad, had not been included in
this invitation, and was making wry faces
at the thought of the three or four meals

he would have to eat alone with the delectable
maiden-aunt, before Dr. Martin's
return would enable the whole party to
start on their Swiss tour.

I'm sure she'll kiss you," said Theoo
consolingly. " Aunt Sophonisba always
gets sugary over young men when there
is only one left behind. She hates them
in the lump  she adores them in morsels."

Aunt Sophonisba ! What an unusual
name," murmured Mrs. Eeece.

Why are you not more exact in the
terms you use, Theoo? You should say
she hates them in the abstract, and adores
them in the concrete," said Oscar correcting.


Bother abstract and concrete ! " replied
Theoo. "Pass my cup for some more
coffee ; " and so on and so on, until the
meal, which seemed to Judith the longest
she had ever sat through, came to an end.

As they rose from the table, Oscar
pulled at her sleeve, and got her into a
corner.

"Is Wolf going to drive us to the
station, do you know ? " lie asked, with
something like a gleam of hope in his face.

Judith shook her head.

How can I know ? Why don't you send
up and ask ? " she answered point-blank.

Oh, it was only this  I thought if
by any chance Wolf did not mean to
drive us, you might come, don't you see,
and  and take Theoo off my hands."

Ah, Oscar," cried Judith with a sudden
impulse, " why haven't you set your mind
on Theoo instead of on that other? She
has three times more heart."

"Hush-sh! that's sacrilege," said Oscar
gravely.

Then he sent up a message to Wolf,
was he going to drive them to the station
that morning or not ?

The answer came back brief enough,
and barely polite. He had so much to
get through ; Oscar must drive himself
and the ladies, and send back the horses
by Davies.

"Now, you'll come, Judith, won't you?"
cried Oscar. " Farmer Jones will take
down the luggage for us in his cart, and
Davies can go with him. It will do those
fat greys a world of good to have an
extra hundred pounds to carry. Come
along, get ready."

And Judith was weak enough to consent
thus to facilitate a farewell tete-astute
between Oscar and the lady of his heart,
all the time with the feeling strong in
her own that it would have been far
wiser and kinder, had it been possible,
to have built up barriers and mountains
between these two, than have thus lessened
by so much as half an inch their distance
one from the other.

You will have so many tete-a-tetes on
your Swiss tour," she grumbled, making
one final feeble objection.

You forget Sophonisba is going," replied
Oscar with a look that spoke
volumes. " Come along, there's a good
girl."

After all, the brisk drive along the
country lanes did Judith good, and sent
her back stronger in heart to face the
mysteries of Plas-y-Coed.

Theoo was full of joyous fun, and
accomplished with ease seven miles of
incessant chatter. Oscar, seated beside
Leila on the box, looked radiant as old
Sol himself at thus having secured an
hour of his goddess's undivided attention ;
the said goddess, so it seemed to Judith,
taking ample revenge for Wolfss cold handshaking
and curt farewell, by showering
extra smiles and sweetness on the poor
fooled boy. Her words were very "soft,
gentle, and low," none heard them but
he, and her eyes spoke sideways to him
under her long lashes.

Possibly Theoo noticed the alternate
looks of indignation and pain that went
sweeping over Judith's face, for she gave
her a violent nudge with her elbow and
said in a loud whisper :

"Now, don't put yourself out about it,

it's her way with them all. Bless you,
he'll be sure to find her out sooner or
later, and have a row with her, and tell
her to go and make eyes at someone
else. They all do, one after the other,
sure as possible ! "

It was poor comfort, but there was
none other to be had. Judith could only
hope the "finding out" would be "sooner,"
not later, and that Oscar would take his
discovery as calmly as the other young
men of Dr. Martin's establishment had
taken theirs, if Theoo's statements were
to be credited.

Yet she could have cried over him ashe
waved a bright good-bye to her from
the window of the train. His heart was
made of too good and true stuff, so it
seemed to her, to be played tennis with,
let the hand that held the racket be
never so fair and shapely.

I shall write to you every other
day," screamed Theoo, as the train moved
off, " and you'll come and stay with us,

won't you, and show me how to scratch
up my hair at the back and pile it upon
top of my head in the way you do ? "

"You little stupid," said Leila to her,
sotto voce, as she honoured Judith with a
formal bow of farewell. " Why, of course
she mounts her hair up that fashion to
get five or six inches more height ! you
are gawky enough already, Heaven
knows ! "

Judith had a long letter from her father
to read on her way back. The Indian
mail had come in that morning, and she
had slipped her letter into her pocket
till she could secure a quiet five minutes
in which to read it. It was full of kindly
solicitude for her comfort, not untinged
with a certain amount of anxiety lest by
any chance he had made a mistake in
his selection of her home. Someone had
been throwing out hints to him that it
was whispered that the establishment at
Plas-y-Coed was conducted on rigidly
economic principles ; that, in fact, it was
vol. 1. 16

scarcely the kind of home in which a
young lady could expect to have her
whims and wishes gratified.

"Now, my dear," wrote the father, "I
ask you to deal candidly with me, and
if things are with you other than you
have a right to expect, tell me, and I
will make different arrangements for you.
Of course you know it is my wish to
have myself the pleasure of introducing
you to society, so I will ask you not to
ground any objections you may have to
your present home on its solitariness or
quietude. At the same time understand
that I wish you to have every luxury
and comfort that money can command.
A horse, if the Eeeces can't give you a
mount, a piano, if theirs does not suit
you, and whatever else you may require
in the way of maids, or jewellery, or
dresses. I have placed another thousand
pounds to your account at my banker's,
and as you want money, all you will
have to do will be to apply, as before,

to my London agent and lawyer ; but
understand, once for all, that I wish you
to want for nothing. In about a year
and a half s time from now I shall hope
to have sufficiently arranged matters to
be on my way home to England, and
shall look forward to the happiest of old
ages in surrounding my darling child with
the comforts and pleasures she has a right
to demand at my hands."

It was a tender loving letter enough.
Judith read it through, with a thrill of
gratitude, yet with something of a sigh
for the distance, the want of sympathy,
the strangeness, so to speak, which she
felt existed between her father and herself.
For a hundred times a day that
her thoughts flew to Uncle Pierre, they
flew but once to him. As she read the
loving words there was no tremulous
longing for the touch of the loving hand
that had penned them, no terrible, half-silenced
dread lest death or disaster might
step in between them, and the year and

162

a half fail of its promise. All this, no
doubt, was but the natural, inevitable
result of their long years of separation,
but it was none the less grievous to her,
and at that particular moment seemed
specially to accentuate the sense of loneliness
and heart-emptiness of which she
was conscious.

If he really wished me to be happy,
why did he not let me stay with dear
Uncle Pierre ? " she thought, as she folded
and put her letter in her pocket.

Then, somehow, she began instinctively
to read between its lines, and made the
discovery that it was rather in his own
way than in hers that he would have
her to be happy. This, possibly, in the
years to come, she would have to find
out.

It was not a pleasant notion to get
into her head. The drive was a long
one, but she had food for thought down
every shady lane, along every rocky roadway.


She did not get back to the Grange
till nearly four o'clock in the afternoon.
Mrs. Eeece was feeling the heat, and had
gone to lie down in her own room  so
Bryce informed her  but luncheon had
been laid for her in the dining-room, if
she would please to walk in.

Now, luncheon alone in that big, dark
room had not a very tempting sound to
Judith's ear.

No, thank you," she said ; " I would
rather have some tea in my own room,
if you'll send it up."

Bryce began to grumble.

"In my young days," she muttered,
gentlefolks weren't half so fond of tea
as they are now. They didn't say ' no '
to good food when it was set before
them. But things have changed since
then."

Judith turned upon her brightly
enough.

Why, of course they have changed !
Everything is different even since I was

a girl, so how you can expect forty or
fifty years to make no difference I can't
imagine. Now, please don't talk Welsh
at me, but get me my tea as quickly as
you can."

As Bryce went away to order the tea,
Judith could not help giving a glance
at the old body's shoes. They were
large country ones, it is true, but there
was nothing in them to specially identify
them with the pair she had seen in the
narrow passage over-night.

As she went along the hall, Wolf came
out of his study to meet her.

I have been listening for you," he said,
coming forward and taking her hand.
Are you very tired ? Come into the
dining-room and have something to eat."

It was a more genial greeting than he
had ever before accorded her. Also there
was a look in his eyes as he took her
hand which, although she might have
found difficult to translate into words,
set her thrilling and flushing.

Yet she answered formally enough :

No, thank you ; I am tired, and am
going to my own room."

He did not move on one side to let
her pass.

When you have rested, will you come
downstairs  into the garden perhaps ? I
am wishing so much to have a little talk
with you."

It was said diffidently  shyly almost ;
certainly not in the imperious fashion in
which he usually commanded a favour.

But Judith grew colder and colder in
manner.

'' It must not be to-day," she said with
decision. " I have letters to write to save
the mail."

c; Is the mail in ? " he asked eagerly.
Did you get your Indian letters to-day ? "

Judith, a little surprised, answered in
the affirmative.

He drew what seemed to her a long
breath of relief. Then he reiterated his
petition for a few minutes' talk with her.

You are even too tired to come out
for five minutes into the garden now ? "
he asked.

I am," was her reply, so unmistakably
formal and decisive that Wolf, with a
puzzled, pained look on his face, drew
back at once, and allowed her in silence
to pass up the stairs.

Judith said to herself, over and over
again, as she pulled off her dusty cloak
and hat, and let down her long hair fora
brush, that she was sure she had done
right in thus refusing Wolf's request.
There was an uncomfortable feeling rankling
in her heart, the sense of having
twice in the dead of night surprised this
man's secrets, taking to a certain extent
his confidences by storm, and proffered
to him the most unconventional sympathy
and assistance. Was he building upon
this the notion that he was bound still
further to accord his confidences? The
idea was intolerable. He might think
her cold and stony-hearted if he pleased,

but she would take care he should get
that notion out of his head.

As well as another, even more intolerable
than that ! One which made her
flush crimson to the very roots of her
hair, and stamp her foot at herself for
so much as casting a side-glance at it,
the i idea that possibly her willing offers
of help and sympathy had been attributed
to deeper feelings than those of mere
kindly charity. No, she wouldn't let that
thought creep into her brain. It was intolerable
 not to be thought of! She
wouldn't, she wouldn't  he shouldn't  he

shouldn't Well, he should see that

she, at any rate, was not such an one as
Leila Martin, to be taken up and laid on
one side just as the fancy seized him.

Bryce, coming with her tea-pot at that
moment, interrupted the current of her
thoughts.

"There's one comfort," said the old
body, putting down the cup and saucer
with a clatter : " the tapestry-room is

to be locked up again, and the master
goes back to his own room to-night. It's
ill to trouble the dead in their graves, no
good comes of it."

Judith was in no mood for Bryce's
gossip just then. She knew a ready
method of silencing her.

"Ne me parley plus de cette chambre
lugubre," she cried. " Vous m'ennuyez
avec votre, ' pas de bon ! pas de bon ! '
Alley, babbler avec les pies, et leur
demander quand reviendront les rolled,"

Bryce flung one sharp, furious look at
the young girl, put her fingers in her
ears, and backed out of the room, firing
a volley of Welsh as she went. All
down the staircase and along the passages
echoed consonants and gutturals,
ending finally with the emphatic bang
of the door of her sanctum sanatorium
below.

-=j-sec='

$lt5|rT first it had seemed strange to
*ola have the walls of the old Grange
echoing to the sound of young
voices, now it seemed equally strange to
have the young voices banished. Everybody
missed Theoo's hearty laughter and
practical joking, and although Oscar had
been, for him, unusually subdued and
silent, yet so long as he was in the house
Judith never lacked a companion.

True, the absence of Leila's big, cold
eves and unblushing flirtations was a thine*
to rejoice and be glad over, but on the
whole the breakfast-room had a dreary,
forlorn look after the three young people
had departed, and Judith found her

thoughts more than once wandering back,
as of old, to the bright, cheerful morning-room
at Villa Eosa, and the pleasant talk
that used to " go " so well with the coffee
and hot rolls.

Mrs. Eeece, with the weight of some
four extra decades of years to stoop her
shoulders and lower her vision, naturally
saw things from another point of view.
She had no special need of young people's
society, nor special liking for their voices.
To say truth, even Oscar, "the child of
her old age," as she was occasionally
pleased to call him, was a little too much
for her at times.

We're a small party to-day," she said
cheerfully, as she took her place at table
and adjusted her glasses as though they
were of real use to her. " I suppose it's
the creeping on of old age makes me think
so, but really I am beginning to feel that
small parties suit me best. Now these
young ladies, no doubt, were everything
that young ladies ought to be, but really

it seemed to me that the voice of the
younger of the two was uncommonly loud.
Now, Judith, }ou know more of young
ladies than I do, don't you think it was
uncommonly loud ? "

And Judith, the truth-telling, thus appealed
to, was compelled to admit that
Theoo's voice was uncommonly loud.

Exactly," Mrs. Eeece went on with a
little air of triumph, as of one who had
compelled an unwilling admission ; " her
voice was loud in speaking, and, worse
still, was loud in laughing. Now, to my
way of thinking, a loud laugh in a woman
is about the worst thing she can be guilty
of  in manners, I mean. She may use
her voice in talking, she must use it in
coughing, but for laughing she needs only
to employ two organs  her eyes and her
mouth ; her voice should be silent. Of
course you'll tell me I'm prim and old-fashioned
in my notions, I'm prepared for
that "

"Falstaff had a battle this moraine;

with a shepherd's dog," interrupted Judith,
intent on effecting a diversion from Theoo
and her idiosyncrasies.

But," the old lady went on, not so
much as hearing the interruption, " for
all that, I liked her better than her sister.
In spite of her noisy boisterous manner,
I preferred her to Miss Leila, who 
begging your pardon, Wolf  struck meas
being a little sly and underhand."
(there," thought the old lady, "I've
said it now ! He may take it any way he
pleases, but it may help to open his eyes")

Mo f her," exclaimed Wolf earnestly,
bending across the table towards her,
why should you beg my pardon ? How
can your criticism of Miss Martin in anyway
affect me ? "

How  how ? " repeated Mrs. Eeece
not a little astonished. " Why, my dear,
you seemed to be taking a very great
interest in the young lady, and I did not
think it would come to an end the very
minute she was out of the house."

It has come to an end, then, let me
assure you, and is never likely to be
renewed," said Wolf coldly ; and as he
spoke, he rose from the table and left the
room.

Well," exclaimed Mrs. Eeece, rightly
concluding that Judith remained in her
place, " I am to live to see strange things,
it seems ; but if anyone had told me that
Wolf would turn out a flirt, I should
have said he was just as likely to turnout
a monkey. Xow, Judith, be honest 
do you see anything of the flirt in my
eldest son ? Anything of the fool, I might
say, for the two things nearly always go
together?"

Judith, writhing under this cross-examination,
was forced to admit that she could
see " nothing of the flirt " in Mrs. "Reece's
eldest son.

Well, then," insisted the old lady, putting
into words the very question that was
uppermost in Judith's thoughts at the
moment, " how do you account for his

conduct with Leila Martin ? Why was
he always running after her, walking with
her, driving her here, there, everywhere ? "

Judith confessed it was out of her power
to account for these things.

Exactly," said Mrs. Eeece with the
same triumphant air as before ; " out of
your power and out of mine to account
for this and a great many other things that
are going on at the present moment. It
seems to me, my dear, as though both my
sons just now were acting in a most unaccountable
manner. There was Oscar
as heavy as lead all the time those two
girls were in the house Now we are
prepared for a little gloominess in Wolf;
it's his way, and he has had a lot to go
through, which somehow seems to weigh
him down still, though I cannot imagine
why he could not do duty at Llanrhaiadr
the other day, and let the rector have a
holiday ; but as I was saying  ah, what
was I saying ? " Here she paused, trying to
get back the thread of her talk, which

had somehow slipped through her fingers.
Oh, I was saying, so many unaccountable
things are happening just now. Only
think, last night after you had gone upstairs,
Wolf suddenly asked me if I didn't
think Oscar had better give up the idea
of matriculating next year, and make a
start in life at once. And this, after all
the trouble he has taken in choosing his
college, and getting someone to coach him.
It's really incomprehensible ! "

Do you think Oscar has spoken to him
on the matter ? " asked Judith, recollecting
Oscar's appeal to her.

I am certain he has not. Wolf was
so relieved when I told him that Oscar
wished the same thing, and said at once
he would see about getting him a nomination
or something or other for some
Government billet. It's all very well
talking, but it seems to me that neither
of my sons just now quite knows what
he is doing. Their conduct, to say the
least, is remarkable."

vol. 1. 17

Judith hailed with delight the entrance
of Bryce at this moment to receive her
housekeeping orders for the day, and made
her escape from the room.

Outside the door Wolf met her, and
laid his hand upon her arm :

Come out on the terrace for five
minutes," he said ; " I have a question to
ask you."

There was no getting out of it this time,
his hand was firm as his voice ; go she
must. The question brought the colour
to her cheeks.

"Did you think," he asked when they
were well out on the weedy path with
no listeners save the whispering laurels
and yews, "that I took a special interest
in Leila Martin?  tell me."

Now if Judith Wynne had been like
most other young ladies, she would have
tossed her head, and said with a little
frown : " I have never thought at all
upon the matter, it was no concern of
mine." But not being at all like other

young ladies, and being utterly unskilled
in the art of prevarication, she answered
simply enough :

"Yes: who could help thinking so?"

Wolf made a sharp movement of
annoyance.

How can I explain ? How is it possible
for me to make you understand
that I was but making an experiment ? "
he cried.

An experiment ! " repeated Judith,
looking at him gravely.

Aye, an experiment. You are shocked,
your eyes tell me that you do not think
experiments on girls' hearts are lawful
and right. But what if this girl had no
heart, and the experiment was made on
mine, not hers ? "

He paused, waiting for a reply. Getting
none, he went on:

Will you then think so hardly of me?
Will you utterly condemn a poor wretch
who, suffering tortures, stretches out his
hand to take anything and everything

in the shape of a drug that is offered
to him! Nay, more, who goes out of his
way, as it were, to test whether this or
that thing will act as an opiate and lull
his pain ? Do you understand  do I make
my meaning plain ? "

Yes, I understand perfectly. But why
say these things to me ?  why attempt
any painful explanations ? " she asked
gently, anxious to make him understand
that though she would gladly and heartily
help him at any moment in the extremity
of his misery, yet in cold blood she could
not and would not thrust herself into his
confidence.

Why, why ! " he repeated vehemently,
and for the moment he lost control over
himself; "because I value your opinion
more than that of any other living soul ;
because, from the very first day you set
foot in this house, I read your truth and
goodness in your face, and knew I could
trust you as I could none other ; because'
and here his voice sank to a low passionate

whisper, " vile as I am, and vile as
you must think me, I would not have
you lay to my charge sins which I have
not committed, though they be such trivial
ones as coxcombry and flirtation."

Judith was strangely moved. For the
moment she had no words at command.

Wolf went on. " Heaven knows," he
said bitterly, " I have no wish to make
myself out a saint. That would be a
useless task enough after what you have
seen with your own eyes."

Judith could have no doubt as to what
he alluded. " All that is to me as if it
had not been," she said, quietly.

As if it had not been ! " he echoed

slowly ; " can that be possible ? Will you

tell me you have driven out of your mind

the words I used in the horror that fell

on me ? Great Heavens ! Nothing  no

power in this world, nor any other, will

ever sear from my brain the awfulness of

those nights."

His eyes fixed themselves on distant
vol. 1. 17  2

space for a moment, then turned right and
left of him with a hurried, scared look.

Judith feared lest his fancy might once
more conjure up the evil thing that pursued
him.

She laid her hand gently on his arm.

"You do not quite understand me,"
she said : "I meant to say what I saw
and heard I should consider sacred, and
would not allow myself even in thought
to dwell upon. Unless, indeed," she added
a little wistfully, " by so doing I could
in any way be of service to you."

He turned round upon her, his face
alight with gratitude.

4 * You  you say this ? " he exclaimed.

Yes ; why not ? " she said, gathering
courage now from her own boldness. " I
told you the other night how gladly I
would help you if I could."

"Child, what you told me the other
night I did not hear ; my brain was dazed
and simply incapable of thought. But I
hear you now ! Do you mean you would

go out of your way  really out of your
way  to help me ? "

"Out of my way, of course, gladly.
Who would not ? "

Wolf shook his head sadly enough.

Many would not. How could it be
expected of them? What have I done
for my fellow-men, that any should step
out of his way to give me a helping
hand ? "

What have you done ? " exclaimed
Judith ; " oh, ever so many things for
other people, when you were working
in London. Oscar has told me, your
mother has told me over and over again,
all you used to do for the poor people."

His face brightened. It was pleasant
to him to think that this girl with the
clear, shining eyes should have before her
fancy a better likeness of him than the
one he now presented to her view.

Yes," he said, rejoicing inwardly over
the Wolf of the past, just as middle-aged
people like sometimes to look at their

young photographs, and think " this once
was I." " Yes, I did work in those days.
It was a hard life, but it was a blessed

one " He broke off abruptly ; a mist

seemed rising before his eyes ; he laid his
hand tremulously on the young girl's arm.
Judith," he said, sadly, humbly, " God
only knows, but it seems to me if you had
been by my side then, I should not have
brought down this heavy judgment upon
my own head."

Even as he finished speaking he suddenly
turned round and left her.

Judith stood still, looking after him,
blankly, wonderingly. For a moment
creation seemed to stand still and hold
in its breath, the birds' singing ceased,
only the roar and tumble of the cataract
in the woods come suddenly close under
the garden wall seemed to sound in her
ears.

For but one brief moment  no more ;
the next she had bowed her head and
gone swiftly into the house.

All in a flash the knowledge had come
to her that pity for this man had deepened
into a tenderer, stronger feeling, and that
henceforth to the end of her life, come
storm, come sunshine, come fair weather,
or foul, creation held but one man for her,
and that man was Wolf Eeece.

CHAPTER I.

F, as the poet sings, " variety is the
spice of life," existence at the old
Grange must have been singularly
flavourless during the last four months of
that year.

Wolf went about the house silent, reserved,
gloomy as usual, shutting himself
much in his own room, and shunning every
possible chance of a tete-tete with Judith.

Judith went about the house also much
the same as of yore, by a shade possibly
less sunny and serene, getting possibly one
tithe less of enjoyment out of the long-hours
she spent in reading before a big
VOL. n. 18

hire, or in thinking her own thoughts in
the solitude of her room.

And Mrs. Eeece went about the house
much the same as heretofore, save that a
rheumatic stiffness in one knee had made
itself felt, and she was compelled to use a
stick. The equable i maimer in which this
lady bore her misfortunes, small or great,
was a thing to be wondered over. Let her
but be convinced that this sorrow or that
annoyance was inevitable and irremediable,
she at once accepted the situation of affairs,
and endeavoured to adapt herself to it.
Yet one could scarcely describe her's as
the patience of Job ; it had a something
Which the patriarch's lacked, and which
could perhaps best be described as a
cheery stoicism ; and it had not a something
which the patriarch's had  a full,
deep chord of underlying faith and hope.

Of course it might be that these deep
chords in her nature had been sounded
till they had cracked and given out no
more music, in the days when her children

and her husband had been taken from her,
and she herself had been smitten with
blindness ; that was a matter that lay
between herself and her Maker. What
the world saw and noted was a cheerful
garrulity, which talked the bitterness out
of most troubles so soon as they made
their appearance ; an active, practical rendering
of that well-worn byword, " Where's
"the use of crying over spilt milk ? " Thus,
when this old lady saw that henceforth, to
the end of her life, a stick, in all probability,
would be her daily companion, all
she said was, " You'll be sure to buy mea
nice, strong, elderly-looking thing, Wolf,
with a good stout handle, that I can
have well-padded ; " and, getting this,
she concluded the matter to be at an
end.

It is possible, after all, that of these
three, Mrs. Eeece got the most out of life
just then? A comfortable armchair beside
a bright fire, her mastiff at her feet, a
weekly letter from Oscar, and a daily hour

of reading from Judith, seemed to be all
she asked or expected in the way of enjoyment,
and getting this she was content.
The thing that troubled her most was
Wolfss steady refusal to assist the vicar in
any of the services at Llanrhaiadr. Everyday
she bemoaned, as cheerfully as she
could bemoan, the fact that not Lord and
Lady Euthlyn, nor the Howellss, nor the
Madoxes, lead as yet heard her son speak
from the pulpit.

My dear," she would say to Judith, " if
you heard him but once I'm sure you
would never forget him. I have seen the
people positively shiver  the ostrich-feather
that boot maker's daughter would persist
in wearing used to quake like an aspen
leaf  as he put before them the terrors
of the last day. Now everyone says Lord
Euthlyn is a hard landlord  a scare once a
week or so might do him a world of good.
Don't you think so ? "

Judith assented, at the same title feeling-sure
in her own mind that if Lord Euthlvn

had to wait for his " world of good " till it
came to him through Wolfss energetic
preaching, he must be content to do
without it till the end of time.

For, with eyes strengthened and quickened
by love's magic power, she looked on
this man now, and it seemed to her that,
as the slow winter days went creeping by,
the energy was dying out of him, his
Bodily and mental strength seemed daily
dwindling, his hair was whitening, his
shoulders rounding, his footsteps slackening
into the gait of premature old age.

How her heart ached over him ! How
she longed to go to him and say, " Trust
me all in all, or trust me not at all. Give
me at least one half of your burthen to
bear, let it be what weight it may." One
such bitter, helpless cry as she had heard
on the staircase in the dead of night, one
such look of dumb, hopeless misery as she
had seen in his eyes that August morning
on the terrace, would have brought her to
his side with these words on her lips. But

as neither the scene on the staircase nor
that on the terrace was re-enacted, the
words remained unspoken. Wolf went his
way, getting through the days as best he
could; she went hers, conscious of his
misery, her own heart wrung by it, yet
unable by so much as a feathers weight to
lighten its load.

As Christmas drew near, Mrs. Eeece
seemed suddenly to wake up to the notion
that things were not altogether as they
ought to be.

When we were in London," she said,
Christmas was always the busiest time
of year. There were the trees to be
dressed for the Sunday-school treats, the
teas for the mothers and fathers, the
clothing-club gifts, and a world of other
things beside. Wolf," here she suddenly
her chair to face the corner whence
her son's voice had last come to her,
don't you think we ought to have some
sort of a distribution here? I don't suppose,
from what I hear, that the old Squire

was at all famed for this liberality to the
poor ; but, really, I think something will
be expected of us in our position. Coals,
or blankets, or a Christmas dinner to the
aged poor."

"Mother, I have no money for such
things," said Wolf, quietly, " and couldn't
manage it if you wished it ever so much."

No money ! " repeated Mrs. Eeece,
blankly. " I thought, my dear, when we
came here there was to be no lack of anything.
Are you sure. Wolf," this said in a
mysterious, confidential whisper, " that old
man Maurice hands you over your income
properly  doesn't keep back anything,
I mean? Now, you know, he and the
old Squire used to have terrible disputes
sometimes, they might have been about
money matters."

Mr. Maurice is above suspicion ; he
accounts for every penny he receives,"
answered Wolf, with decision ; " but I
have had heavy calls upon me of late."

Judith thought of her thousand pounds

lying idle at lier father's bankers, but did
not know how she dared offer it for Wolfss
acceptance.

She made the attempt, however.

"My father sends me home so much
more money than I can possibly get

through ; if it would be of any good "

she began, hesitatingly.

Child, it is for your own use, and must
not be touched by any hand but yours,"
said Wolf, in a tone that admitted of no
appeal.

So Judith gave in, and Christmas passed
away at the old Grange, silently, drearily,
like the other days, unmarked by the festivities
or bounties supposed of necessity to
accompany the recollection of the manger
at Bethlehem. The old year was clanged
out, the new year was clanged in, by the
peal of weird old bells at Llanrhaiadr that
had done similar clanging for the past two
hundred years ; the woods grew hoary
with January frost ; the little . stream,
sacred to the memory of St. Govan the

Good, shut itself in an ice prison of its
own making ; the peaks and crags of the
blue mountains looked kingly and desolate
with their crowns of snow, as no doubt
they had looked some decades of centuries
before the eye of man had gazed on them,
or foot of man had trodden them ; and
Judith, crouching, kneeling, or sitting before
a large fire in her own room or in
Mrs. Eeece's little morning-room, was compelled
to confess to herself that never
before in her experience had short winter
days spun themselves out to such an unconscionable
length ; never before had it
been her good or evil fortune to welcome
with such eagerness the long winter nights
of sleep and oblivion.

Perhaps if Oscar had come home for the
vacation things might have been a little
more cheery. But Oscar did not take his
Christmas holiday that year ; he had availed
himself of Wolfss permission to give up
the idea of college with a will, and had
placed himself under one of the masters at

Dr. Martin's establishment to be prepared
for the civil service examination. As heretofore,
he never mentioned Leila's name in
any one of his letters, but Judith felt she
knew what was in the boy's heart, what
wild hopes he was fostering, what crazy
possibilities in the future he was looking
forward to, that he set to work in such
mad earnest to shorten the road to independence,
if not to fortune.

Tlieo, however, in her long, rambling
letters, written in bold, schoolboys hand,
spoke freely of her sister and her mal-practices.


I am thankful to say," she wrote,
' Leila has been packed off to Strasbourg
at last. She carried on abominably all the
time we were in Switzerland  Oscar was in
despair, and threatened to break his neck
down a precipice two or three times, only I
persuaded him out of-it  and came home
with the full intention of making everybody
as wretched .as she could all through the
winter. It was only a vet's son, too, who

was going in for surgery at Guy's, and nota
particularly handsome fellow  huge
hands and feet  a sort of Bob Sawyer-looking
individual. Anyhow, Oscar thrashed
him one evenings in Eichmond Park  he
ought to have thrashed Leila instead, and
I told him so  and then pa thought it was
time Leila was packed off again, so he
started her the next day for Strasbourg,
and I don't believe will have her back till
after Easter."

This was good news to Judith. It pained
her to think of the daily torture this boy-lover
must have gone through with his
heart in such cruel keeping. Once she
had hinted to Mrs. Eeece her fears for
Oscar, and had suggested the desirability
of finding another home for him than Dr.
Martin's. Mrs. Eeece had carried her
hints and suggestions to Wolf, herself
endorsing them. But Wolf had scouted
both.

If it be as you say," he had said, " he
will live out this fancy  at his age it

can be nothing more  better on the spot
where he formed it than anywhere else.
He will meet many such girls as Leila
Martin before he is many years older. Is
he to run away from his work every time
they cross his path ? "

So the suggestion came to nothing, but,
nevertheless, Judith heard with not a little
delifiht that the dangerous beauty had been
removed from Oscar's orbit, thereby freeing
the lad from a few of his many daily
heart-twinges.

|i(|pHE dreary winter came to an end
at last, as all things good, bad or
indifferent must come to an end
in this rickety, scene-shifting world of ours.
January's snows disappeared, February's
sunshine fled away in tears before the bluff'
boisterousness of lusty March, who in his
turn suffered himself to be taken captive
and led forth in chains, by balmy-breathed
soft-handed April. The whole earth seemed
charged with promise ; one could hear it
in the swinging tree-tops, as the jays and
linnets fluttered in and out, saying pretty
things to each other about sweethearts
and nest-making ; one could see it in the
growing greenness of the grass beneath

one's feet, in the deepening blue of the sky
overhead, and the fleecy whiteness of the
saiHng clouds ; one could scent it in every
passing breeze which brought back tales of
violets in wooded hollows, of primroses
yellowing the furzy hillside.

Emphatically a time for promises, no
matter where, when, and how they are to
be paid ; for weaving dreams and building
castles, no matter how quickly they may
melt into air, or crumble into dust ; for
rejoicing in the mere fact of one's youth
and gladness, no matter how soon one maybe
called upon with folded hands and
numbed hearts to chant the Nunc dimittis
and say good-bye to both. All hail ! The
tourney is before us, the pageant is to the
fore; never mind the wrung sinews, the
crushed limbs, the dead bodies, which
sooner or later will fill the arena. " Those
about to die salute thee ! " But the time
for dying has not yet come. Let us cry
while we can with whole heart, " All hail ! "

It can scarcely be wondered if Judith, in

company with all creation, felt the rush of
spring  joy, and gladness in her heart. On
the wrong side of forty, it is easy enough
to shut one's door in the face of hope and
bright suggestions of future possible or impossible
happiness ; but on the right side of
twenty, it is more difficult. The door hasa
knack of swinmno back asrain on its
easy hinges so fast as it is shut ; indeed,
of the two, it is far harder to keep it
shut than open.

At least so Judith found it, as with the
birds, and the flowers, and the dormice she
woke up to the sense of spring regnant
once more, and went forth with all the
glad young things to snufF the sweet fresh
air and build her castles as she listed.

If she had looked the matter steadily in
the face, she might possibly have seen on
what narrow foundations those castles were
built, how their very erection was due as
much to an instinct called forth by the
glad spring summons as the nest-building
of the jays and linnets. But she did not

SO look the matter in the face ; she only
said to herself, as she fastened her nosegay
of daffodils in her bodice and took her
packet of morning's letters to read in the
mossy old garden :

My opportunity to help him must come
sooner or later, and, ah, how I will jump
at it ! Dear Uncle Pierre ! "

And here she gave a good kiss to the
thin foreign envelope addressed in the
tremulous old writing, which she held in
her hand.

But, alas ! tears, not kisses, were to greet
the contents of the letter when, the seal
broken, she had seated herself on a garden-chair
to devour them.

The letter was dated from Marseilles, and
announced the fact that Uncle Pierre was
en route for the north of China to join the
Jesuits' mission there. It was, in fact, a
letter of farewell to her. Judith felt, sofar
as she was concerned, it was an eternal
farewell. She covered her face with her
hands, struoolincr with her tears.

Ah me ! what a different letter to the
one she had expected  full of all the news
she loved best to hear, of her dear old
friends at St. Andre !

A voice sounded at her side. It was
Wolfss.

Judith, what is it ? " he asked. " I was
at my study-window, and saw you drop
your letter. Tell me, child, what is the
matter ? Is it bad news of your father ? "

Judith withdrew her hands from her face.

Head it," she said, pointing to her
letter. " It is from Uncle Pierre."

Wolf read it. It was a pathetic letter
enough  the cry of a man whose household
gods were shattered, and therefore he
would sweep away the niche that had held
them.

"I did not write to you before, my
child," he wrote, " for I felt you would
have flown to me to say adieu, and your
soul is too young to bear the shock of so
dolorous a parting  mine too old. I have
VOL. n. 19

laid for you a wreath of amaranth on Aunt
Maggie's grave. Pray for her, my child,
pray for me as I pray for you, for her.
Let our prayers go up one essence to our
Father's throne, that they may return tous
again a dew of peace and benediction.
All good angels keep thee, my Judith, with
their outstretched wings ! Adieu ! "

Wolf sighed as he looked at the date of
the letter.

"If it had come one day sooner, you
might have telegraphed a good-bye to him.
Oh, Judith, do not cry so bitterly ; I cannot,
cannot bear it. What can I say to
comfort you ? "

Judith made no reply ; her voice, indeed,
was beyond her control

"What can I say to you?" Wolf went
on, in hopeless, weary fashion. " I used
at one time to know how to comfort people,
but somehow I have no words now. Oh,
child  child, do not grieve in  this way ;
I cannot bear to see your tears."

And this was all lie could say, seated
there by her side among the laurels, and
holding her hand firmly in his own 
Child, child, do not grieve ; I cannot,
cannot bear to see your tears."

Judith found her voice at last, and tried
to smile up at him, but it was a very wan
little smile.

I must seem so foolish, but I know it
is a good-bye for ever, and I did so love
him ! " was all she could say, and then the
tears flowed afresh.

"Foolish?" cried Wolf. "Ah, your
folly is wiser than most men's wisdom.
But I would to heaven I could bear this
sorrow for you  every sorrow to your
life's end. Ah, why must those who have
done no sin be made to shed tears like the
guilty and hard-hearted ? Oh, Judith, be
comforted ; I cannot, cannot bear to see
your grief."

And this from one whom she knew had
a sorrow to endure beside which hers must
seem as a pin-prick to a sabre's cut!

192

She dried lier eyes and folded her letter.
Wolf drew a long sigh of relief.

I'm such a bad comforter," he said ;
it was not always so with me. I ought
to have been able to say a word you could
fix in your mind and carry away with
you." His thoughts were evidently going
back to the days of his ministry among
those poor, squalid ones in London. His
face looked dreary and haggard in the
sunshine, his voice had a piteous, hopeless
ring in it.

Her heart ached with its load of unuttered
sympathy  words rushed to her
lips.

"Yes," she said, struggling hard to
keep the tears out of her voice, "you
would like to deal out sympathy and
kindness all round  to bear everyone's
sorrows for them. But you would keep
your own locked up in your heart, and
let no one stretch out a hand to help
you."

She spoke rapidly, impetuously, not

weighing her words, scarcely knowing
what she had said till they were spoken ;
they were in very truth the overflowing
of a full heart. Wolf dropped the hand
he held suddenly, as though it had stung
him. He looked sorely troubled.

What if no outstretched hand, however
kindly, would be of any use ? " he asked,
after a moment's pause.

How can you tell that if you put them
all on one side ? " retorted Judith, speaking
with the same earnest vehemence. " Hands
that look weak and foolish may yet do
some good work if it be given them."

She was not prepared for the sudden
sharp cry with which he sprang to his feet
and confronted her.

Judith, Judith," he cried, " what would
you have of me ? Leave me alone, I
implore you. Why do you tempt me in
this way ? Would you have me shift my
wretchedness from my own heart to someone
else's."

"Yes, I would," she answered, boldly

she had overstepped the bounds now, and
was determined not to be driven back till
she had done her work, " if that other
heart is willing to be burdened with it.
Oh, Wolf, Wolf," she cried, calling him
now for the first time by his Christian name
with trembling lips, and eyes that pleaded
with her voice, " if you will not trust me
with your sorrow, is there none other in
the whole world who could help you ?
Your mother  dear Oscar ? "

Child, what if it be not sorrow but sin
that I keep unspoken ? "

The question fell like a sudden frost
across her burning, passionate words. She
grew deathly white ; for a moment her
heart felt benumbed.

If it be sin," she whispered falteringly,
surely you have sorrowed over it, and
can believe it will be  may be  pardoned
to you?"

Child, what if it be sin, deliberately
and intentionally persisted in?" he asked
in the same heart-wrung voice as before.

Judith fell back in her seat, putting her
hand before her eyes as though she would
shut out some sudden horror.

Oh no, no I " she cried ; " I will not
believe it  I cannot believe it of you.
You are bewildered, mistaken."

Ah, Judith," he went on, scarcely
heeding that she had spoken, " you would
not dare ask to share such a burthen as
that. You will not beg of me my secret
now that you know it is a guilty one."

Judith drew her hand from her face ;
her calmness had come back to her. She
rose from her chair, and stood by his side,
pale and tranquil.

Wolf," she said, laying one small hand
on his arm, " though your secret be a
guilty one, I ask you to let me share it.
Not that I may help you to hug it in your
own heart, but that I may help you to
get rid of it, as one would a plague spot
or leprosy."

A mist came before Wolfss eyes ; he
looked down wonderingly into the pale

face uplifted to his own. Isis lips parted
irresolutely, and closed again. He bent low,
as though about to whisper in her ear.

There came a sound of footsteps along
the gravel-path at this moment. He
sprang from her side like some guilty,
startled thing.

Davies, the one man-servant the house
could boast, came slowly towards them,
with a bit of pasteboard in his hand,
which he presented to Wolf.

A lady has come, sir, and wishes to
see you," he said. " She has driven
straight from the station, and lias a
portmanteau with her, as though she
meant to stay. She told me to give you
her card, and you would know all about
her."

Wolf took the card. On it was written,
"Miss Delphine Pierpoint, Mount Edge-combe,
Canada."

He staggered into the seat he had just
quitted, as though he had been suddenly
struck with cold steel.

Go," he said to the man, " tell her I
am coming."

Then when Davies was out of sight,
he turned desperate, imploring eyes on
Judith.

Judith," he said, speaking slowly and
with difficulty, as one might speak who
had the beak of an eagle in his heart,
draining his life's blood, " a moment ago
you offered me help of any sort or kind
I needed. Are you willing to give me
that help now ? "

Judith stood before him calm as before ;
a shade paler  that was all.

Yes, to the very utmost of my power.
What can I do ? " she asked, speaking
scarcely above her breath.

One thing I implore you not to do,
that is, leave me  leave this house," he
answered in the same restrained voice.
Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he
seized both her hands, passionately,
imploringly. " Oh, Judith  Judith," he
cried, " I could never need your help more

than I shall need it now. Keep by my
side, I beg of you ; do not leave me, do not
give me up. Swear to me that you will
not go away from me, come what will, no
matter who may try to drive or draw you
away."

Judith suffered her hands to remain in
his tightening yet ice-cold clasp. She
lifted her eyes to the deep blue sky above
them, as though to call it to witness her
solemn words.

I will not leave you, nor give you up,
till sou say to me, ' Judith, go,' " she
answered in low, clear tones.

East winds, blight, snow, frost, set in
sometimes without warning' in the blithest
of spring-tides. The promise of this spring
was ozone for ever now.

2//|ES Judith passed the low 
room widows, half opened tolet
m the sweet spring sunshine,
she heard a female voice speaking in high-pitched,
somewhat shrill, but nevertheless,
not unmusical, tones.

I hope you are glad to see me, Mr.
Eeece," it was saying. " I have crossed
the Atlantic on purpose to bring you news.
Bertha is dead  her lungs were always
weak, you know  but the boy still lives
a poor, puny little creature ! "

Wolf's reply did not reach Judith's
ear, for, with almost the swiftness of the
wind itself, she sped along the terrace,
anxious only to get into some dark, quiet

corner, to beat down the tumult in her
heart and arrange the incoherence of her
thoughts.

Had she parted the bushes, and looked
in through the window, she would have
seen a young lady standing in the
middle of the room, looking up with
much earnestness right into the eyes of
stalwart, blank-faced Wolf. She was
elegantly attired in grey fur mantle,
grey fur hat, with just a coquettish
peeping out here and there of delicate
pink. She was small and slight in figure
as small and as slight as Judith herself.
Her complexion was of a rich
cream tint, deepening almost to a bronze
on her throat and towards the roots of
her crisp dark hair. A faint Hush of
colour tinged each cheek. Her eyes
were dark as her hair, and had that
excess of brilliancy which suggests, somewhere
among the toilet accessories, a
bottle of belladonna. They were much
given to sudden uplifting, rapid down-drooping,

and all sorts of darting and
piercing, as Wolf was soon to find out
to his cost. Her teeth were pearly white,
small, and childish-looking ; her lips were
coral-red, pretty when parted in the act
of speaking, but a little given to a resolute
tightening  a shutting with-snap
sort of look  when, the speech ended,
she awaited her answer. They were thus
tightened, and the effect was not
pleasant, as she stood in the middle of
the room, waiting for Wolf's reply to
her question :

I hope you are glad to see me ? "

But answer she got none.

"You should have written to prepare
me for your coming," was what he said,
in a tone that would have frozen anyone
less frost-proof than Miss Delphine
Pierpoint.

What need ? " she said, laughing
lightly, a low, odd, but nevertheless
musical laugh. " Pleasure is doubled
when it comes as a surprise. Now confess

you would not have been half so
glad to see me if you had been expecting
me, say for the last month or six
weeks, saying to yourself, ' Will she
come ? will she not ? ' like any poor
lover waiting for his lady under a trysting
tree ! Ah, the suspense would have
been beyond bearing by this time. Now,
confess, Mr. Wolf ! " And again she
laughed a long, low, rippling laugh  a
laugh, however, that had not one vestige
of mirth in it.

So at least thought Judith when, about
half an hour later, she made Miss Delphine
Pierpoint's acquaintance at the
luncheon-table, and heard her give one
low, long laugh at a remark poor Mrs.
Eeece was making as she entered the
room.

More girls ! " the old lady was saying
; " did you say another young lady,
my dear ? Dear me, dear me ! where do
they all come from? They seem like
the loaves and fishes, miraculously increasing,

and they more than meet our
wants. Now tell me what this one is
like."

There was no time even to say
Hush ! " Miss Pierpoint was well into
the room, and heard distinctly every
word. Then she had given lier long,
rippling laugh.

Judith looked up at her. What was
that laugh like ? It wasn't exactly the
sort of laugh heard sometimes in a
lunatic asylum, when a man gets up and
tells you he is a laid-out corpse ready
for interment, and then laughs in your
face. Not quite, though it seemed to
recall it. Judith racked her brains, and
suddenly there flashed into them an old
Thine legend describing the laugh of the
trolls and gnomes underground, when
they found a man careering about their
treasure-caves, and shut their gold and
diamond doors upon him. "We have
caught a man and caged him," their laugh
seemed to say, and Judith, in fancy.

could hear the same refrain in Miss
Pierpoint's musical ripple.

Wolf introduced the young lady to his
mother simply as " an old friend of my
cousin Bernard's."

Mrs. Eeece, from her place at table,
held out her hands in welcome.

"Any friend of Bernard Eeece is, and
ought to be, most Welcome here. Of
course you will sit down to luncheon
with us, and I hope will be able to spend
a few days," she said pleasantly.

In which case may I be allowed to
remove my furs ? " said Miss Pierpoint
with an engasfino frankness, at the same
time bending an inquisitorial look on
Judith, which seemed to say : " Now who
and what are you  relative, friend, or
nearer and dearer one ' still ? It is my
business to find out."

Wolf made no attempt at an introduction.
Judith, looking up in his face, saw
that a change had passed over it since
they had parted in the garden. Then it

had looked white and haggard enough,
Heaven knows, but it was, at any rate,
the face of a man responsive to sympathy,
mobile with passionate suffering ; now,
though white and haggard still, it was
hard and inexpressive as the rough
mountain side itself; responsiveness and
mobility were gone ; it was granitic in
its effacement of all human feeling. Only
his eyes, which burned and glowed beneath
his bent brows with carbuncle-like fierceness,
told that a human soul was housed
within him still.

There came a momentary, awkward
pause, which Judith abbreviated by
coming forward and offering to assist Miss
Pier point in removing her fur-cloak.

Thanks," said the young lady, " it's
awfully heavy, and this room is awfully
hot," and she slipped the weighty garment
into Judith's arms. "Jo, thanks,
I'll keep my hat on, at an} rate till you
show me up to my room. Is this where
I'm to sit ? " taking the fourth place at
VOL. II. 20

the table, as she spoke, easily and naturally
as though she had taken it every day of
her life from babyhood upwards.

She is a stranger to Mrs. Eeece
evidently ; is she as much a stranger to
Wolf?" wondered Judith, a vague, uneasy
feeling taking possession of her.

Negus  very hot please," said Miss
Pierpoint, pushing aside her glass of
sherry. " I'm just a little nipped with my
long drive. Do you know this is my
first  my very first visit to England," this
to Mrs. Eeece, " and I'm sure you'll take
it as a compliment  a very great compliment
 when I tell you that I only
stayed one night in London, just to
rest myself, so anxious was I to see
Bernard's old home and Bernard's only'
relatives."

A very great compliment, my dear,"
answered Mrs. Eeece- politely  she called
Miss Pierpoint *' my dear," conjecturing
that so young a voice in speaking and
laughing must of necessity belong to a

girlish owner. " Are you Bermudian ? "
added the old lady after a moment's
pause.

No ; Canadian  that is to say, my
father was an Irishman, and my mother
a Frenchwoman ; therefore, I must be a
Canadian," laughed the lady.

Was it in Canada you first made
Bernard's acquaintance ? " queried Mrs.
Beech, adding, by way of making the
conversation general : " There is a young
lady seated opposite who would give a
great deal to hear Bernard Eeece's history
after he left England  I mean during the
three or four years that he lived abroad
after his father's death. She is always
teasing me with questions about it."

Wolf turned sharply round upon Judith.

Why  why, what possible interest can
it have for you ? " he asked with an
almost fierce eagerness.

The interest of the romantic and the
mysterious," answered Miss Pierpoint,
intercepting Judith's reply ; " those three

202

or four years abroad were, possibly, the
most romantic portion of a most romantic
career. Now, the question is," and she
darted a side-longs smihnrr oance richt
up into Wolf's face from beneath the
brim of her grey beaver, " what did he
do with himself during those years? With
whom did he pass the greater part of
this time?"

No wonder she had chosen to retain
this grey beaver during luncheon; its
easy curves not only set off the most
piquant of profiles, but its bent brim
afforded ample covert beneath which to
carry on any amount of sideway fire.

Wolf was unequivocally disturbed. Mrs.
Eeece, who could not see his face, calmly
continued the conversation.

"Well, my dear, if jou ask me what
he did those two or three years, I should
say a great many things ; and, if you
ask me with whom he passed his time,
I would venture to say with' a larger
number of people than you would attempt

to count upon the fingers of both your
hands."

Then you would be quite wrong in
both your repHes," answered Miss Pier-point,
keeping her eyes steadily fixed on
Wolfss face, as though she were watching
for the effect of her words on him. " In
the first place, he did but one thing
during those years  cruised about in his
3acht from port to port ; in the second
]place, his time was passed entirely in the
society of but two persons. I speak from
positive, actual experience, for those two
persons were my sister and myself ! "

Wolf jumped up from table.

Mother, we have all finished lunch
this ten minutes ; don't you think the
drawing-room would be a lighter, pleasant
room than this ? " he queried, impatiently.


Excuse me, Mr. Wolf," said Miss
Pierpoint, with a little echo of her usual
laugh, " I have not yet concluded my midday
repast. I wind up every meal with

a glass of dry sherry and a plain biscuit
milk-biscuit, if you have such a thing
in the house  I cultivated the taste with
great diligence during my yachting period ;
it made me so thoroughly independent of
bad cooks or bad hosts. Let a dinner
or luncheon be what it will, give me a
glass of dry sherry and a biscuit to
finish up with, and I'm content."

Wolf, in silence, handed the young lady
her biscuit, and poured out, with a somewhat
unsteady hand, her glass of dr'
sherry.

Mrs. Eeece looked as she felt, a little
bewildered.

Well," she said frankly enough,
think's have changed since I was a girl !
The longer I live the more convinced I
am of it ! " Then she went back to their
former topic of conversation. " And so
Bernard Eeece was fond of yachting ! I
suppose that's how so much of his
money went. But I don't think he took
to it till his father died. The people



here  old Maurice and the others  seem
to have heard nothing about a yacht."

I dare say not. When the old man
died, young Mr. Bernard went straight
to New York ; there it was the yacht was
built for him. A beautiful thing it was
too  the Kestrel it was christened. I
think I have a photograph of it I can
show you, somewhere amono- niv things.
My sister and I had the honour of going
with Mr. Bernard on its first cruise 
rather a longish one too  to Bermuda."

My dear," queried Mrs. Eeece anxiously,
for her ideas of propriety were at that
moment being subjected to volcanic action,
I sincerely hope that you and your sister
had some elderly person to accompany
you  to act as chaperon, I mean ? "

Oh, of course ! " replied the young
lady ; " we had an old horror of that
sort on board. Thank Heaven ! she's
dead now, the nasty old gryphon, and
won't worry anybody any more."

Mrs. Eeece grew suddenly grave.

In m} young days," she said with
dignified emphasis, " young people used
to treat their elders, if not with reverence,
at least with respect."

Miss Pierpoint shot a mischievous glance
at Judith tlirouofh the branches of the
silver epergne which, filled with spring
blossoms, decorated the centre of the table.

Ah, that sort of thing went out with
the patches, and curtsies, and the ' sirs,'
and ' madams,' of our great-grandmothers,"
she began.

So much the worse for the young
people," interrupted Mrs. Eeece, who was
evidently beginning to lose her temper,

And, instead of respect and reverence,"
pursued the young lady, pushing her chair
back from the table, " we give them
adoration. Xow middle-ai]fe is delightful,
so far as it goes," here brilliant side-firing
at Wolf, lost upon him, however, for,
with hand pressed upon Diis eyes, he leaned
back in his chair, moody and. unobservant
; " but, unfortunately, it does not

go far enough ! Only when it reaches
old age does it become adorable ! "

Here, with a sudden graceful movement,
she flung herself on her knees
beside Mrs. Eeece's chair, and, raising the
old lady's hand to her lips, kissed it once,
twice, and again.

It was gracefully, winningly done, yet
on one at least of the spectators it failed
of its effect. The idea somehow came
into Judith's mind that this young lady
had more than once gone through this
or a similar performance, and before a
larger and more public audience ; it brought
a curious succession of ideas in its train.

Mrs. Eeece looked more than ever
bewildered, yet withal slightly mollified.
Judith thought it best to attempt a
diversion. This young lady's conversation
and demeanour evidently jarred not a
little upon Wolf; she was altogether a
new experience to his mother.

Shall I take Miss Pierpoint up to my
room to remove her hat ? " she asked of

Mrs. Eeece. "Will you come?" this,
turning to the young lady, who, having
risen from her knees, was standing close
to the window surveying the ill-kept garden,
the luxuriance of the shrubs, the
weedy condition of lawn and borders.

Wolf at this moment, with a sharp,
sudden movement, faced his mother.

"Mother," he said, in an odd, unpleasant,
jarring voice, " Miss Pierpoint
has taken a long journey to see us. I
am sure you will be delighted if she will
make our house her home during the
remainder of her stay in England ? "

If Eve, after the fall, had been in a
position to offer the old serpent a bower
in Paradise, she might have done it in
much such a tone.

Mrs. Eeece with difficulty got her breath
together to ejaculate " Wha-at ! "

Then she strove to gain time for herself.


Are you making a long stay. Miss
Pierpoint ? Have you many friends in

England ? " she asked, weighing meantime
in her own mind the probability of a
large circle of friends contending each in
turn for the privilege of Miss Pierpoint's
society.

My length of stay depends entirely
upon circumstances. I don't know a soul
in England besides yourselves. I shall be
delighted to accept your most kind invitation,"
was the gracious response. Then,
after a moment's pause, as though an
idea were Dressing on her brain to which
she must give utterance, she exclaimed :
What a beautiful place this might be
made with a little time and a lot of
money spent upon it ! But, oh dear,
what a mistake to let those big trees
grow right up to the windows : they
ought to be cut down  every one of
them. Yes, I'm quite ready," this to
Judith, who stood with her hand on the
door, mutely regarding her.

As she passed out of the room she
gave Wolf, not a sideway passing glance.

JUDITH WYNNE.

but one bold, unmitigated stare  a look
at once critical, appraising, measuring,
as tlioucfh she were taking; the standard
of the man, his mental and physical
capabilities.

Ah," she said to Judith as the door
closed behind them, " he would make a
magnificent Lear. Of course he would
have to straighten out his round shoulders
a bit before he would be ' every inch a
king ; ' but he would do to perfection  I
can see it in his face  the ' Kill, kill, kill,
kill, kill, kill ! ' "

At each repetition of the word she
raised her voice a tone or two, till the
last, given with clear, far-reaching emphasis,
seemed to fill the old hall where
they stood, ring along the corridors, and
echo up the staircase to the roof itself.

The servants heard it as they sat at
their mid-day meal, and laid down their
knives and forks, and came creeping up
the kitchen-stairs to peep and .listen.
Bryce heard it as she stood counting her

jam-jars, and she left off her counting,
and came glaring, yet quaking, along the
corridor. Mrs. Eeece heard it as she
sat in the dining-room mildly discussing
the oddities of the new comer. Wolf
heard it, and jumped to his feet, flung
open the door of the room, and asked in
his deep and always tragedy tones :

What is it ? What, in Heaven's name,
are you doing ? "

Doing ! " repeated Miss Pierpoint, resuming
her usual, pretty, child-like inflection
of voice. " I am only quoting
Shakespeare : don't you know the part ? "
Then turning to Judith, she whispered into
her ear : " And he would do even better
the howl, don't you know ? " And now
she raised her voice assail into "Howl,
howl, howl, howl ! " till the final " howl "
made the old roof rino- ao-ain.

Then she fluncf her arm round Judith'

waist.

Come along, show me your room. I
dare say we've nearly frightened the old

lady out of lier senses by this time. Up
the stairs, did you say ? You're a nice,
good-looking girl ; " this with a pretty
elder-sister sort of air ; " and you're nota
Eeece, are you ? No ! I'm glad of
that. And you're not in love with
that thunderous, frowning King Lear, are
you, as otherwise we might come to cross
anchors ? Forgive my nautical phraseology
; I caught it out yachting with
Bernard Eeece. Come along."

PglEGO, the Virgin, turning the line
into a tight-rope, or dancing a
minuet with Taurus, the bull,
along the ecliptic, would have been a
commonplace person beside Miss Delphine
Pierpoint in these early days of her visit
to the Grange. Judith, growing strangely
quiet, yet keenly observant, as the odd,
frolicking time went by, could only hold
in her breath and wonder. As for poor
Mrs. Eeece, she passed incessantly from one
fit of astonishment into another, and went
about saying to everyone she met, " What
does it all mean ? Can you tell me, what
does it all mean ? " A question which no
one made the feeblest effort to answer.

Bryce even, to whom it was addressed
regularly every moriiiug wlieii she came
for her day's orders, was startled out of
her usual stony reserve with her mistress,
into something approaching a friend'
loquacity, and contributed her quota of
experiences of the young lady's vagaries.

She told me only yesterday," she
grumbled, " ' to go to the devil and
shake myself,' only because I asked
her if she would have some tea. Tien
what does she do but grimace right
up into Mr. Davies's face when he
brings her her letters. Now, ma'am,
I know Mr. Davies's mouth is drawn
down at the right corner, and has been
ever since his ague-fit a year and a
half ago, and I know, too, his left eye
has a cast in it enough to set one shivering
; but for all that I will say it's not
manners for a lady to make faces at him.
Not but wdiat I would rather be ofrimaced
at than served as she served me, not half
an hour afterwards, Ashen I took her the

newspapers. Up she jumped out of lier
clair, threw her arms round my neck,
and gave me a kiss on both cheeks.
Bryce,' she said, with one of her odd,
Avild laughs, ' many's the good kiss I've
given your Master Bernard ; take it and
welcome.' But even that fit didn't last
till I could get out of the room. She
asks me the next minute if it's going to
rain or be dry, and because I tell her I
haven't the ordering of the weather, and
can't say for certain, she calls me ' an
old horror,' tells me my eyes are made
of glass ; then she hisses at me for all
the world as if I were a cat, and orders
me to get out of the room as quickly as
possible, or she'll throw something at my
head. What we're all coming to in these
days, is more than I can say ? " and soon,
and so on, going back to her usual
strain of gloomy muttering.

Judith felt the air thickening daily. She
noticed that Wolf at this time seemed
possessed with a spirit of apprehension
VOL. n. 21

and unrest. Isis absence of mind lead
vanished ; in its stead there had seemed
to come a constant uneasiness, a tiger-like
watchfulness over Miss Pierpoint and
her movements. Let her be in the room,
his eyes never lifted from her face, his
ears waited for every syllable she uttered ;
let her be out of it, he seemed always
on the alert for her return.

Judith noted all sorts of moods showing
themselves in his eyes  bad, black
moods at times ; sullen and defiant at
times ; heart-broken and despairing at
others. When the heart-brokenness and
despair showed in them most he would
sometimes suddenly cross the room to
Judith's side, make her speak to him by
putting some simple question, evidently
for the mere pleasure of hearing her voice
in reply, would touch her hand, would
look round furtively, open his lips as
though about to speak, would abruptly
shut them, then turn away, and avoid
her for the rest of the day. When the

black, bad mood was on him lie never
went near her from morning till night, and
his eyes would rest on Miss Delphine with
an expression not pleasant to look upon.

As for Miss Delphine, i her voice, look,
and manner by turns flung fascination or
defiance at him. She called him " Royal
Lear " to his face, and carolled to him
in quaint melody odd snatches of poor
Tom's songs, " Child Rowland to the dark
tower came," or ' Saint With old footed
thrice the wold." When the frown on
his face was at its blackest and worst,
she would lean forward with her elbows
on the table, and reproduce it on her
own ; when he seemed listless or moody
at meals she would stir him into sudden,
uneasy life by some anecdote of Bernard
Eeece on board his yacht, or some
casual allusion to her poor sister Bertha,
and her short married life. Like some
strong, wild animal caught in a lair,
and bound hard and fast, by turns
he would chafe and struggle against his

212

Library

bonds, by turns lie clown wearily under
them. Now his face said to her  or
so it seemed to Judith  " Do your
worst, I defy you!" anon, "For Heaven's
sake, have mercy on me, now that the
game is so entirely in your own hands ! "

She is part of his guilty secret,"
thought Judith, her old heart-ache and
pain growing on her tenfold, and one
miserable surmise after another taking
shape and form in her brain.

She felt herself strong to help this manif
he would but let her ; nay, would he
or would he not, she would fain have
opened the door of his prison-house, could
she but have found the right key to fit
into the lock.

Weary hours of thought this hunting
for the key brought her  weary hours
of prayer, sleepless nights, anxious days.

If only dear Uncle Pierre, with his
gentle heart and wise head, could have
been there, she felt things might have
grown plainer to her ; right would have

been stronger in the house, opportunity
for evil less. But there was she, siuoie-
handed, trying to fight Goliath !

Over and over again she tried to make
Wolf sneak to her of himself; she tried
to make him understand that she was
waiting for his confidence ; that she stood
there, as of old, ready and willing to
stretch out a hand. It had to be done
-in odd moments, when they chanced to
meet in corridor or on staircase, for,
whether it was that he was afraid to
trust Miss Pierpoint out of his sight, or
whether a similar fear possessed this young
lady, certain it is that morning, noon, and
night found them always in each other's
company.

Once, meeting him in the hall on his
way from the dining-room to his study,
Judith paused, resolutely stopping his way,
and laid her hand on his arm.

You are ill," she said in a low voice.
Can no one help you, or do anything
for you ? "

He looked down on her with eyes into
which there leapt a sudden tenderness, a
very passion of yearning.

"Yes, I am ill, Judith," he answered intones
that confirmed his words. " Pray
for me, child  pray for me that the end
may not come yet. I want just a year
or two more  that's all."

St. Withhold footed thrice the wold,
He met the night-mare and her nine fold,"

carolled Delphine's voice through a half-opened
door; and Wolf started from
Judith's side as though she herself were
the black night mare.

He turned back for one moment.

'' Judith," he said hurriedly, looking
over this shoulder meantime, " when you
write to Oscar, tell him from me he is
not to come home this Easter  not to
come home, you'll make him understand,
on any pretext whatever."

KSCAE, however, as it happened
)M showed not the slightest indignation
to come home that Easter.
He sent Judith a long letter, which he
asked her to read to his mother and
Wolf, explaining the why and wherefore
of this. It was the sweetest and most
solemn letter she had ever had from him
the longest too, it may be added, for
it covered nearly two sheets of notepaper,
and, strange to say, had not one
word in it about fishing-rods or hunters.

It began as usual by giving Judith the
latest intelligence of the Ee treat. How
that a new pupil had come, a young
Lord Havers, who was no end of a good

fellow, and with whom he had struck up
a hard-and-fast friendship. Jut it went
on quickly enough, as Judith knew it
would, from a lord to a lady, and that
lady Leila Martin, as a matter of course.
Here Oscar seemed, somehow, to find his
words failing him, for he wrote in odd,
broken sentences, as one might whose pen
was too heavily charged, or whose hand
was too tremulous to hold it.

I hardly know how to write my next
news," so ran the letter, " for the joy
that is in my heart. Leila latin has
at last promised to be my wife  promised
to wait years for me, if need be months,
if I can make it months. We have been
corresponding ever since she went away
to Strasbourg, and she has written it all
down in her dear writing that she will
be mine when I am able to ask for her.
Dr. Martin chives his consent conditionally.
Leila comes home this Easter. God
bless her ! I know 1 am not worthy of
her, never can be. I can only hope to

prove to her how true my love is 
nothing more. This midsummer there
will be a heavy exam, on ; if I pass it I
am all rio-ht for the Fortiori Office. Pass
it I will. I mean to show you all how
1 can work now."

And then the letter came to an abrupt
conclusion.

Judith's eyes swam with tears of ready
sympathy. Was she glad ? was she
sorry? She did not know, she scarcely
dared to ask herself. She only felt the
letter of congratulation would be very hard
to write, that it must of necessity be a very
short one  would in all probability consist
but of one sentence, such as, " God
bless you, dear Oscar, and give you every
happiness in the years to come I " nothing
more.

She went at once to take the letter to
Mrs. Eeece or Wolf. Looking casually
through one of the windows she saw the

o

latter walking on the terrace with Delpliine
 Miss Delphine, be it noted, with

a cigarette between her pretty rows of
pearls.

Where can I smoke ? Can't do without
a whifF after dinner," she had asked
Wolf on the day after her arrival.

Wolf had politely suggested the terrace.

Very well," the young lady had
replied, " that will do, as it has set in
warm just now. Now, a cigarette, please."

Wolf had confessed himself innocent of
cicar-case.

Bernard Eeece invariably carried one
for my sole use," replied Miss Delphine
with a coquettish upward look into Wolf's
face ; " and I shall think it very sweet
if you will do the same, taking care the
cigarettes are machine-made. I abhor
those hand - made, weak - in - the - middle
things."

And Wolf, oddly enough, had at once
taken the young lady's hint, and provided
himself with a cigarette-case, showing
a special anxiety over the make and
substance of its contents.

They were leaning, over the stone
parapet, side by side, when Judith
looked out at them. Wolf shifted a
little farther from Delphine as he saw
her approaching.

The sun was setting in a blaze of fire
behind the mountains ; the sharp crags
and castle-like turrets were washed in
tawny-gold ; the wood beneath lay steeped
in an amber mist.

Wolf in silence took the letter Judith
held out to him.

Miss Delphine for an instant, took her
cigarette from between her teeth to indulge
in a string of appreciative epithets
on mountain, wood, and sky. She was
greatly given to ecstatics over scenery,
or " scenic effects," as she was apt at
times to style the rapid atmospheric
chancres this vale and mountain ranee
were wont to exhibit.

In all your life now, did you ever
see anything more gorgeous, more surpassingly
lovely ? " she asked, turning to

Judith. " Now, surely you can spare it
one little adjective out of your abundance?"
This added with a graceful
wave of head and hand.

God made a whole beautiful world,
sunrise, sunset, colour and shade, and
only called it ' very good.' This is ' very
good,' " answered Judith, coldly.

Delphine shrugged her shoulders and
went back to her cigarette.

Wolf looked up from the letter. His
eyes were a little dimmed, but his voice
sounded hard and stern as ever.

It will come to nothing, of course,"
he said, " but it will stimulate him in this
work. That will be so much to the good
for him." Then he turned to Delphine
with what seemed to Judith a quite unnecessary
explanation that the letter
was from his brother ; that he was working
hard to obtain a Government billet,
and had just engaged himself to a very
beautiful young lady.

"Ah, I know Mr. Oscar," said Delphine,

promptly. " Now, is lie at all like
you, in any way?"

"I thank Heaven, no! " answered Wolf,
with an earnestness that was startling.

Judith felt herself in the way.

Shall I read this letter to your
mother, or will you?" she asked a little
coldly, for his manner repressed and
pained her.

If you will, I shall be glad," was all
his answer.

Then he turned to Delphine once more,
proffering the cigarette-case.

There came a sudden rush of tears to
Judith's eyes. She dashed them back,
and said to herself, it was only the glare
of the brilliant sunset that had dazzled
her, and made her scarcely able to see
her way along the dark passage.

Straight into the drawing-room she
went, hoping to find Mrs. Eeece there.
No signs of her, however, and library and
breakfast-room were searched with the
same result.

Perhaps she may have gone back to
the dmmg-room," she thought, and accordingly
made her way thither.

The dining-room was nearly as dark in
broad daylight as the dreary library
itself, owing to the proximity of the old
yews whose growth Miss Delphine had so
much deprecated. Now, with twilight
shadows beginning to fall, it was dim
almost as any under-sea grotto might be.

Are you in here, Mrs. Eeece ? " she
asked, merely putting her head inside the
door.

My mother has gone up to her room ;
she was tired," said a deep voice from
one of the window recesses ; " come in a
moment, I want to speak to you."

Judith started. Wolf, of course it was ;
but was Delphine with him ?

Where is she ? " she asked below her
breath, for the dread of Delphine's sudden
appearance from an unexpected corner
was beginning daily to grow upon. her.

She is upstairs in her own room,"

answered Wolf with a slightly scornful
accentuation of the pronoun. "But I
want to ask you something, child. Have
you friends or relatives anywhere in
England with whom you could stay,
for a time at any rate  "

He broke off abruptly ; there was a
wistful sadness in his voice which cut
Judith to the heart.

Her eyes grew burning hot, her voice
was choking.

Are you sending me away ? " lie
cried. "Has it come to that already?"

As she made out his face in the dimness
it seemed to her growing whiter and
whiter.

Judith," and his voice was imploring,
tear-charged, " do not tempt me to drag-down
into the mire one whose place is of
right among the angels of God. Child,
in the years to come, this brief year of
life your will be over-lived, forgotten. I
want you to begin the over-living and
forgetting as quickly as may be."

It will never be over-lived, never forgotten,"
she cried passionately, striking
her hands together. " This should be my
home for at least another year. Why
will you drive me out of it ? Why 

Why  why ! " echoed a voice outside
on the terrace ; and looking up, they saw
Delphine standing at the open window
with a pleasant smile half parting her
pretty lips. " ' Still through the hawthorn
blows the cold wind,' " she lightly
carolled, looking up into Wolfss white,
stern face. Then she turned to Judith,
and striking her hands together, mimicked
with an exactness that could only come
from years of trained practice her "Why
will 3'ou drive me out of it ? Wliy  why?"

Wolf turned upon lier fiercely.

"What were you doings there, lurking
outside the windows in the dark ? " he
asked vehemently, furiously.

Delphine laughed her usual gnome-like
laugh.

"Is it worse to lurk outside windows
in the dark than to lurk inside them, Mr.
Wolf? " she said, throwing back question
for question. "I left my book on the
terrace. I have no maid; I come down
to fetch it ; I hear your voices ; I join
in your talk. Voila tout. But, seriously,
1 repeat Miss Judith's question  why must
she be driven out of the house ? Why
must she leave us without rhyme or
reason ? Why  why ? "

Judith shivered at the mimicry of her
own passion, which with literal truthfulness
this young lady once more reproduced.

' There is ample reason why she should
go," answered Wolf, at bay now, and reckless
of consequences ; " as ample reason
as there could be for any pure-minded
girl to leave a place where impurity and
unholiness are beginning to flourish ; as
there could be for a white-robed angel to
spread its wings and set itself free from
the devils of hell." He set his teeth over
the last words. He had neared the window
VOL. ir. 22

as he spoke little by little, and now looked
down in lier face with a light in his eyes
that meant danger.

But Delphine only laughed up at him
in reply.

Which of us is angel  which devil ? "
she asked, showing her double row of
pearls.

Judith, all white and tremulous, tottered
to his side.

Am I to go ? Do you say I am to
go ? " she asked in low, quivering tones.

He looked down into her upturned face
looked, looked, looked into the depths
of her eyes as though he would look his
soul away. His lips moved. A " Yes "
seemed to form on them, then died away
unspoken. He took her hands for one
brief instant, crushing them almost in a
fervid clasp, let them go again abruptly,
turned on his heel, and strode away from
them, down the darkening garden-paths
out into the shadows of the fields beyond.

P"-JTyTy\n-S

pppYENTUALLY there was to be war
Wei to the knife between Delphine
and Judith : but wear to the knife
with Delphine was to mean one thing, with
Judith another.

With Delphine it was to mean the fairest
and sweetest of morning greetings and
evening " good-nights," an incessant flow
of light, amusing talk whenever they two
chanced to be alone together, or of subtly
insinuated flatteries if a third person were
in the room. This to Judith's face. Behind
her back it was to mean a few good round
curses, hurled after her through open
window or half-shut door, a life-ike
mimicry of her gait, manner of speaking
and listening, to any one of the servants

*>*>.

who was to be had for an audience, and a
half-hour or so of steady gloomy thought
when, alone in her own room, she sat upbraiding
her hair before retiring for the
night.

"With Judith it was to mean long hours
of thought, of prayer of weeping, it might
be, for her eyes often looked heavy and
tired, and, after a time, large, dark purple
rings began to encircle them. In Delphine's
society it was to mean a coldness and distance
of manner, a repressiveness, so to
speak, which would have utterly frozen
anyone susceptible of the process, though
on Delphine it entirely failed of its effect ;
and an avoidance of that young lady so far
as it was possible for one person living in the
same house, and sitting down to the same
table, to avoid another ; the passing of as
much of her time as possible in the solitude
of her own room, or alone with Mrs. Eeece ;
and the careful shunning of all mention of
Miss Delphine's name to any living soul in
the house. In old Mrs. Eeece's company

this, to say the least, was a matter that
required skill and determination.

On the night on which Wolf had gone
out alone into the darkness, Judith sat up
watching for his return till day broke in
the eastern sky, and the mountains were
aflame with ruddy gold, all sorts of terrors,
meantime, filling her heart. Then, j must when
her body was at its weakest, and her fears
at their strongest  when she had begun to
feel that the suspense was no longer endurable,
and had tied on her hat, resolved to
go forth in search of him  she heard the
garden-gate swing back, and saw him come
slowly along the gravel path, with bent
head, lagging footsteps, limp spiritless gait.
At the same moment she heard the window
of the room over her own opened with a
very determined flourish. This was Oscar's
room, and for the nonce had been given
up to Delphine. Judith knew what would
follow now.

First there came a low, mirthless laugh,
then the fragment of a song :

Steepest or wakes thou, jolly shepherd?"

then a coquettish " Good morning, Mr.
Wolf! What an early riser you are! I
should have been glad of a morning's walk
had I known I could have had a companion."


Judith threw off her hat, and flung herself
on her bed, heart-sick and worn outwith
her night's vigil. Baffled and weary,
she pressed her fingers on her hot eye-balls.
If she could but have gone out and met
him, had but one word out there with him
in the open ! Nay she felt all attempts
to see or speak alone with him would
and must be futile, for this day, at any
rate.

Delpliine with her Argus eyes would be
here, there, everywhere, or if not here or
there in actual bodily presence, the consciousness
of her proximity would be in
every hole and corner, of house and garden
(just as the consciousness of the presence
of infection in the air spreads itself everywhere
when fever is in a house), effectually

preventing any exchange of confidences
between Wolf and herself.

A sudden thought came to her  a
thought so like an inspiration, that she
was fain to believe that one of her guard
in passing had breathed it into
her ear. Why not write to him ? True it
might be difficult on paper to express all
the pity she had in her heart for him, all
her intensity of desire to help him ; but so
was this difficult to do face to face with
him, for words would fail, and her voice
would falter ; and more than difficult 
utterly impossible to accomplish with
the shadow of Miss Delphine hovering
near, ready to fall upon them at any moment.
Yes, she would write, and rising
from her bed, she got out her pens and
paper, rang her bell for one of the maids,
whom she heard stirring about the house,
and asked to have her breakfast brought
to her in her own room, at the same time
sending a message of excuses to Mrs. Eeece,
together with Oscar's letter, which she

thought it possible Wolf might read to her
after breakfast.

Not a doubt about it, there never was a
letter more difficult to write. It was not
that the words would not come, they came,
alas ! only too thick and fast  fervent
passionate words, which as she wrote them
brought tears to her eyes, made hand
and pen alike tremulous and incapable,
and which, when she read afterwards,
she tore into a thousand morsels, wondering
over her own effrontery in writing
them.

Sheet after sheet of note paper shared
the same fate. This was too hot, that was
too cold. This showed too plainly how her
heart ached, and burned, and suffered with
his suffering ; that was just such a letter
as an} well-meaning, well-wishing friend
might write  a sort of letter that meant
no more than " I'll help you if I can, but
there are others who could do far more
for 3'Ou."

It was not till the biix hall clock had



chimed eleven, that her task was done, and
even then not in a manner to satisfy herself.
Only once did she trust herself to read her
letter through before she folded and sealed
it.

This was how it ran :

"I have tried and tried in vain to get
the opportunity of speaking a few words to
you. Much against my will I take up my
pen to write them. They are words which
would have been far better spoken. They
will look ugly enough, I know, when I have
written them down.

For they are words of entreaty and of
warning. I know it will  it must seem to
you the height of presumption that I, little
more than a child in years, should presume
to entreat, to warn you, a minister of
God. But I cannot forget that once, not
so very long ago, you called upon me for
such help. I cannot forget your cry,
Judith, help me ! ' nor my own solemn vow
as I stood by your side in the garden that

I would never fail you in your time of
need. Have you forgotten this ?

"I do not wish  nay, I will not force
myself upon your confidence, I do not wish
to stretch out my hand and say it is the
only one that can help you now ; but I do
say that those other hands stretched out towards
you will not help you in your necessity,
for they are false hands and evil
ones. Do you know to whose hands I am
referring ? To Miss Pierpoint's  none
other's.

You will say, 'How dare I thus presume
to pass judgment on one almost a
stranger to me. How can I knows whether
she is true or false ? ' I only know what
my heart tells me about her. I feel positive
aye, certain as I am of my own existence
that if you yield to her influence you
will yield to an influence that will destroy
you body, soul, and spirit.

Pardon me for writings these words too



you  pardon me if I repeat once more the
vow I made to you in the garden, ' I will

never leave you, nor give up the hope of
helping you, till you say to me, ' Judith,
go!' " "

Judith Wynne."

It would require not a little courage to
give this letter to Wolf, to place it in his
hand and say, " There, read it when you
are alone." Yet this was what she resolved
to do. Past eleven o'clock ! Yes, he would
be sure to be in his study now, engaged
with Maurice, the steward, his interminable
gossip and business details.

So straight downstairs to the study she
went, hiding her letter in the folds of her
dress, lest by any chance Miss Delphine
might come upon her unawares on the
staircase, or in the hall, and snatch it from
her hand, a feat that erratic young person
would have been quite capable of accomplishing.


"Come in," said a voice she did not expect
to hear in response to her knock, and,
opening the door, she found Mrs. Eeece

sole occupant of the room. " Who is it?"
asked that lady. "Oh, Judith! I hope
your head is better, my dear. Do you
want to see Wolf alone ? Shall I go away ?
I'm particularly anxious to have five
minutes' talk with him this morning  about
Oscar's engagement, I mean. It seems tome
someone ought to write to Dr. Martin,
and tell him how long Miss Leila will have
to wait for her husband. Have you heard
that Wolf is going to London to day? Ko?
It seems rather a sudden idea. He wants
more ready money, he says, and is going to
sell out,' or something or other. I don't
like to say so, but do you know, my dear,
it somehow seems to me that Wolf never
has money at command. Xow, a large
income goes with this property, I know, so
I confess I cannot understand it. Can you ? "

Here the old lady paused for breath.

Will Wolf save the next train, or will
he travel by the night mail?" asked Judith,
pondering how she could get her letter into
his hands.

Oh, he goes by the next train  starts
at once, I think. Dear me ! I do so wish
he would come in. I must have five
minutes' talk with him. Miss Pierpoint
drives with him to the station. Now, my
dear, isn't that an odd thing for a young
lady to do  drive to a station to see a
young man off, for all the world as if she
were engaged to him ? "

For all the world as if she were engaged
to him ! " brought the hot blood into
Judith's face.

A sudden thought came to her about her
letter.

Will you mind giving this to Wolf
when he comes in ? " she said, putting it
into Mrs. Eeece's hand, and closing the old
lady's fingers tightly over it. " You won't
let anyone but Wolf have it, will you?
You will give it into his own hands? Please
promise me ! "

"My dear, with a great deal of pleasure."
(" I wonder," she thought, " is Judith
making him an offer of marriage, since he

seems so shy of doing it himself? I shouldn't
have liked to think such a thing of any girl
at one time, but, dear me, dear me, all the
girls of late have gone so queer, I dare
think anything of any of them") Then,
aloud to Judith : " My dear, I will put it
into his own hand, and will tell him to read
it when he is alone. Will that do ? "

Judith thanked her and withdrew.

I dare say," she thought, " he will read
it as he goes up in the train, and will write
to me from London. He will be free to
use his pen there, at any rate."

Then she went into the drawing-room,
thinking that she would keep in the way
in case he might wish to say good-bye
to her.

Wolf, however, made no effort to do so.
She heard his heavy tread more than once
along the hall and corridor : she heard also
Miss Delphine's voice, here, there, everywhere,
carolling wildly, lightly, like any
half-mad skylark who couldn't quite makeup
its mind which of the clouds should be



its concert room ; then she saw the old
greys brought round to the front door, and
Miss Delphine handed into the phaeton.
Then Wolf jumped in after her, crack went
the whip, and he was gone.

Judith and Mrs. Eeece sat down alone
to luncheon. The latter descanted loudly
and freely on the eccentric behaviour of
both her sons at this particular period of
their histories.

"If they had only been weak as their
father I could have undertaken to manage
them and half-a-dozen others like them,"
she lamented ; " but there they are, as incapable
as children of five years old, and as
obstinate as though they had all their wits
about them. There was Wolf when I tried
to speak to him, ' Mother, Oscar must
choose for himself, just as I must!' and
then he sighed as though I were worrying
the life out of him. Well, a nice choice
they've both of them made of it, that's all I
can say, and they'll say so too if they livelong
enough."

Did you give Wolf my letter ? " Judith
ventured to ask, as Mrs. Eeece moistened
her lips with her sherry. To say truth
they were a little dry.

Gave it him I Yes, my dear," replied
the old lady, " and he opened it there and
then. It was only a boot maker's bill. Why,
Judith, you should have made such a fuss
over giving my son a tradesman's account
is more than I can understand."

This was said in a deeply reproachful
tone, Mrs. Eeece feeling herself specially
aggrieved that Judith should have raised
hopes in her heart she had no intention
of gratifying.

A boot maker's bill ! " repeated Judith
blankly, and for a moment everything
seemed misty and indistinct to her.

Yes, my dear, a boot maker's bill. What
else should it be? There was the man's
name on the envelope. Any one might
have read it as it lay on my lap. Wolf
did and that's why he opened it at
once and wondered what I meant when

I asked him to read it when lie was
alone."

It lay on your lap ! " faltered Judith,
beginning to see her way through the
mystery. "Did no one  are you sure 
come into the study before Wolf ? "

Yes, my dear ; Miss Pierpoint rustled
in, in her satins and bangles, and rustled
out again, and rustled in again. She's a
restless young woman, as no doubt you've
found out by this time. Then she came upto
my side, and kissed my hand in her
theatrical style  by the way, she is much
more of the Frenchwoman than you, Judith
and told me she did not think she could
get back to dinner, as she had oceans 
yes, that was her word  oceans of things
to buy when she got among the darling
shops. Ah, I wish she could buy for herself
a little common sense and modesty ;
but these commodities certainly don't
seem to be in the market in these
days. I suppose there's no demand for
them."

VOL. II. 23

Judith asked no more questions. It was
clear to her mind that Miss Delphine had
exchanged the letter, which had been
written with so much careful thought, for
one she had no doubt seen lying on the
hall table as she rustled about.

When she went up to her own room after
lunch, her conjecture was confirmed. On
her toilet-table lay a large sealed envelope
addressed to herself, which, on opening,
she found contained her own letter to Wolf.
It was folded in a half-sheet of paper, bearing
his crest and monogram, and on this
was written in a small, scratchy hand :

"With Miss Delphine Pierpoint's compliments
to Miss Wynne, and hearty congratulations
on her simple and pathetic
style of writing."

After this it was that war to the knife
was declared, and carried out between
these two.

glOLF was away but three days.
imjmj Wonderful results attended his
return. The old Grange was
awakened to sudden life and activity by
the tap, tap, of the workman's hammer.
In the course of a few weeks a metamorphosis
 as complete as that Wrought in the
sleeping palace by the kiss of the fairy
prince, with the magic music in his heart,
was accomplished.

Fifty or so of workmen were set to
work upon the exterior of the edifice ;
vans of mediaeval furniture drafiffifed their
elephantine forms along the rocky roads ;
and some ten men, with pickaxes, shovels,
rakes, and hoes, transformed the weedy,

232

forlorn gardens into as complete a picture
of " inverted nature," as soul of gardener
could desire.

Whose doing was it? What did it all
mean? Again and again did Judith ask
herself this question ; getting always in
reply this answer : " Miss Delphine Pier-point's."
And what it meant was that her
influence, for the time being, was paramount
 nothing more, nothing less.

Judith could, in no sense of the phrase,
be said to have "jumped at" this conclusion,
as though it were something beyond
her reach, or out of her path. In good
truth it was a conclusion lying ready to her
hand, and all things considered, somewhat
difficult to avoid. When Wolf returned
from London, it was on Delphine he fixed
his eyes, as he announced the fact of
the projected alterations and repairs. In
response to Avliich announcement Miss
Delphine jumped up from her place at
table, clapped her hands, and cried aloud :

Oh, my prophetic soul ! I knew those

old yews were doomed ! We shall be soon
having light enough in this room to tell
what we're eating. Now, you'll promise
me those miserable old trees shall be
among the first rubbish carted away ? "

It was Delphine also to whom the architect's
plan for certain exterior alterations
was submitted, before even Mrs. Eeece was
asked her opinion on the matter ; and it was
Delphine who was consulted as to the
advisability of clearing out the moat, and
re-establishing the drawbridge, or of doing
away with the old pretence of fortification
altogether, making a wider carriage-sweep,
and building a new lodge.

It was Delphine's voice which, when the
repairs were really commenced, was to be
heard at all corners : here questioning the
foreman of the work ; there loudly expressing
her ideas upon architectural beauty or
ugliness. It was Delphine who made the
tour of the grounds with the landscape-gardener,
inveighed against the number
and size of the trees which shut them in,

and decided which and how many of the
grand old sentinels should be brought to
execution.

And finally, it was Delphine, who, when
the question of interior decoration and re-garnishing
was mooted, laid it down as
law that there was only one man in
London capable of doing these things to
perfection, and that that man must of
necessity be employed.

Poor Mrs. Eeece felt not a little disturbed
and bewildered by the suddenness and magnitude
of these repairs and alterations. For
one thing, her even routine of life was
rudely shaken, not to say upset, and evenness
of routine is to old people what freshwater
is to a fish, pure air to a bird  a
something which can be denied them long
with but one result. She never knew in
wdiicli room breakfast was to be laid or
dinner eaten, what corner of the garden
would be safe from ' the crash of falling
or passing and re-passing of gardener's
barrows. A maid had to be told

off to be always in readiness to attend to
-the ring of the little hand-bell she carried
about with her ; but the maid, being herself
of a lively and social turn of mind, and
never having had before in her life such
unlimited opportunity for gratifying her
love for society, was more apt at listening
for the sounds of the smart young workmen's
voices than that of her mistress's bell.
The consequence was that Mrs. Eeece
would have been not a little neglected and
forlorn had it not been for Judith's watchful
eye and ready hand to guide her safely
from the sounds of hammer and chisel, the
rush of mortar, and splash of whitewash.

She did not like to take a despondent
view of things, but nevertheless as she
said to Judith with the iteration of a church-bell,
or eight-day clock, they were a little
beyond her just then.

Now, my dear," she would say at least
twice in every twenty-four hours, "is it
not extraordinary that one week, as it were.
Wolf should be complaining of want of

money, and go up to London to ' sell out,'
as lie calls it, and the next set going such
extensive alterations as these ? "

Judith could only suggest, each time
the question was asked, that it was
possible he had " sold out" enough to
cover all expenses.

Then why doesn't he tell me so ? " the
old lady would rejoin. " Is it unnatural,
now, I ask you, Judith for me to put a few
questions as to the wherefore and the how
of these things he is doing ? Xo, of course
not! Yet he will not so much as allow
me to open my mouth on the matter. I
only said to him the other day, ' My dear,
there is no mortgaging or dealings with the
Jews going on, I hope ? ' when he sighed as
though I had been talking the very life
out of him, and said, ' Oh, mother, don't
worry ! For Heaven's sake don't tease me
with questions ! ' and walked out of the room
there and then. Now, of course, I haven't
seen his face for many a long day past, but
it strikes me if I could but  get one

glimpse of it, I should see he was not looking
as he ought to look."

Not looking as he ought to look ! If a
man at thirty-two years of age ought to
look in his prime and at the summit of his
manhood, as a tree full of sap and vigour,
as the summertime of the year, full of a
golden gladness ; if to look as he ought
meant to look as a man who was doing well
his work in life, who was armed so strong
in his honesty that he had dread neither of
open nor secret foes, then certainly Wolf
was not looking as he ought to look.

To Judith's eyes in those days he looked
less a man, a breathing, sentient human
being, than a piece of mechanism in the
figure of a man wound up to go through
certain paces or performances, and capable
of that, and nothing more.

She looked at him with wonder sometimes,
as she conjectured dimly the terrible
strain his nature was capable of enduring
without word of sympathy from living
soul ; and she looked at him with awe sometimes,

when she thought of the crash and
turmoil that must one day convulse that
nature, when his soul, awakened and
resolute, would shake offsets bonds and claim
itself for itself. She scarcely dared speak
to him ; in his presence she felt oppressed
with a nameless dread, silenced with the
sense of his pain and iron endurance.
Their manner each to the other grew
daily more and more distant ; hers to
him would have seemed, to an uninitiated
onlooker, a maidenly reserve frozen into
arctic coldness ; his, to her, a politeness
that fell little short of reverence. She
made no effort to bridge over the distance
between them, she did not attempt to send
him a second letter, nor in any way
alice to the past. How would it have
been possible to do this when, save at mealtimes,
they never met ; when every moment
he could spare from architects and upholsterers
was devoted to Miss Delphine, her
odd caprices and ceaseless whims ?

Her desires seemed endless, her tastes

and Lavishes simply insatiable. She
announced, as a rule, some new longing
every morning when she came down to
breakfast ; her night's rest and refrained
having evidently sharpened the edge of her
appetite for pretty things.

One morning it would be, " I am longing
beyond everything else for a grand
piano, it seems twenty years since I last heard
a true note ; " and Wolf would look up and
say simply, " Do you wish for an Gerard ora
Broadsword ? " and there and then the
order for the piano would be given.

Another day it would be, " I am dying
for a new novel ; " and forthwith a whole
packet of books would be written for from
London. As for her dresses, every other
day at least brought a new costume from
some West End dressmaker, which she
duly donned, much to the amazement
of the simple Welsh house - maidens,
before whose eyes so much bravery of
plush, and satin, and velvet, had never
been displayed before.

Her latest desire, and one that Judith wondered
had not been expressed before,
seeing how elaborate her thrice-a-day toilets
were, seemed most unaccountably to disconcert
Wolf.

"I want a maid  I must have a maid ;
I shall die if I can't get a maid!" she
exclaimed suddenly one evening over her
glass of dry sherry. This she was agreeably
diversifying by dipping therein
cherries, which she put to her lips and
forthwith handed to Wolf with sidelong,
mischievous glances at Mrs. Eeece that
seemed to say " If you could but see me,
old lady, the room wouldn't hold you and
me together, I imagine."

Wolf took the cherries, but Judith
noticed he did not eat one  let them lie
untouched on the edge of his plate.

Why do you want a maid " he

began, then checked himself, having probably
found out from experience that it
was useless to question Miss Delphine's
wants. " Well, if you do want a maid,"

he began again, "I should imagine one
could easily be found for you at
Llanrhaiadr."

"Angels and ministers of grace defend
us ! " exclaimed Delpliine. " A maid from
Llanrhaiadr!" and the way in which she
rolled the final "r" at him spoke
volumes.

Well, then, send to London for one ;
there must be plenty of competent maids
to be found there," he said, his voice
growing yet more troubled.

My dear Mr. Wolf, I have already sent
for one where I knew she was to be had 
a little farther off than London, to Mount
Edgecumbe, Canada."

Wolf's face grew darker still.

'' Why have you done this " he

began, than checked himself again, and
said with evident uneasiness : "I hope
she will be a nice person  for the sake of
the other servants in the house, of course,
I mean."

"You shall decide that point for yourself,"

laughed Delphine. " I will only say
I have known her, oh, about twenty years ;
that is her exact age, I believe ; and she
is my double, my shadow, my replica,
though in marble, in stone, for she is
silent where I am noisy  she is grave where
I am gay. What would you have more,
Mr. Wolf? Now let us go out and see
how far they have got on with the smoking-pavilion.
And, oh, by-the-bye, it has just
come into my head what an improvement
it would be to this old house if it were
turned hind part before. No, you don't
think so ? Ah, you haven't thought it
over! I mean the back made the front,
and vice-versa. Come, I'll show you what
I mean from the terrace, and be sure you
don't leave your cigar-case behind jow as
you did last night, keeping me out there
ten minutes waiting for my whiff."

"Is she gone, my dear?" asked Mrs.
Eeece below her breath of Judith, as the
door closed. "Turn the old house hind
part before, did she say ? Ah well, she

has turned it upside down already, she
can't do much more, try what she will, unless
she makes up her mind right out to turn
it into a lunatic asylum, which, as things
go, seems a not impossible performance !"

HE fatigue of heart through which
Judith went at this time was
immeasurable. At no little cost
was reared the bulwark of coldness and
reserve which she had chosen to set up
between Wolf and herself, and which,
though to all appearance solid as stone
masonry itself, needed but a touch to send
it quivering to ruin. A look as of old yearning,
beseeching, passionate, into the depths
of her clear eyes ; a cry as of old, half-comma
ending, half-entreating, of "Judith
help me ! " would have razed the line
structure in ten minutes, and all in vain
would her we ak hands have sought to pile
it up again.

She knew this, hugged the knowledge to
her heart, and kept eyes and ears alike on
the alert for his mute or spoken appeal,
which sooner or later, she felt sure, must
come, in spite of Miss Delphine's exactions
and fascinations. And it seemed to her
that Wolf must know it also ; that clearly
as through crystal he must read the
sympathy, the anguish, the heart-ache,
the passionate longing to be of use to
him, which underlay her cold abruptness
of speech and manner, her long silences,
and short replies.

Bryce, looking from one to the other,
with her keen, sunken old eyes, formed
her own conclusions on the matter.

She's well quit of him," mumbled
the old body, as she tied a handkerchief
over her head and trotted out into the
kitchen-garden to pick her mint and
marjoram for her mid-day soup ; " it's
ill to join a foul hand to a clean one.
It's a pity Master Bernard didn't light
upon her, and go yachting round
VOL. n. 24

the world with her instead of that
other."

Here Bryce nodded ominously in the
direction of the flower-garden, where
she could hear the light and literally
fantastic tread of Delphine on the gravel
path.

She's a bit cold-blooded, likely enough,
and not much to look at is Miss Judith ;
but for all that, a body feels she's one to
be trusted at a pinch."

When a pinch came, as it did later on
and it was a pinch in which Titanic
fingers might have delighted  Bryce, as
well as one or two others, found that
Judith was one to be trusted.

Over the alterations and repairs of the
old house Bryce waxed vehement. It was
not that she objected to the old place
being restored to its ancient glory, but to
its being undertaken by unhallowed hands
by hands that lacked veneration for the
traditions of the house, and that swept
away ruthlessly everything that impeded

the exact carrying out of the modern
architect's modern-antique plan.

When the old yews fell, she covered
her face with her apron, fled into the house,
and wept aloud. Soon she came back,
with face as weird and stern as that of any
prophetess of olden time, and anathematised
one and all of the workmen who had laid
axe to their ancient roots. They, worthy
souls, being excellent specimens of the
British workman, but entirely innocent of
all knowledge of the Welsh tongue,
listened to her respectfully, waited till
she had finished, and then asked her if
she hadn't better go in and have some
beer after all that.

In her wrath she confronted Wolf, who,
with Miss Delphine by his side, was engaged
in giving directions to the gardener as
to the laying out of a certain portion
of the grounds, that was to be converted
into a rose garden.

Do you know what you have done ? "

she asked, drawing her small figure to its

242

full height, and pointing with a look of
horror to the downcast trunks. " Do you
know that you have desecrated a grave
with your pick and axe ? Ages ago, long
before the old house was built, a battle was
fought on this spot, and the chieftain,
Torwerth ap Ehys, fell fighting here with
his two brave sons, and here he was
buried "

In her excitement lie continued to
speak in her Welsh tongue.

Wolf could only get at her meaning in
snatches.

Nonsense," he said irritably ; " the trees
ought never to have been allowed to grow
there ; they shut out all air and sunshine."

Miss Delphine, a few paces behind him,
mimicked Bryce's wrathful gesticulation
and tragic mien to the life  for the delectation
of the head-gardener, for none other
noted her. Bryce tried to calm herself;
she had another question to ask, on a
matter which lay very near her heart.
She put it in English this time.

"And will you tell me," lie began, evidently
against her will falling into the respectful
old-servant tone which was habitual
to her, " what is going to be done to the
room  the tapestry-room I mean? This
morning two of them"  nodding at
the workmen  ' came spying about
upstairs, and asked me for the key
of it."

The tapestry-room," and a change
passed over "Wolfss face as he said the
words ; " it will be cleaned and done up
in due course when they get to that part
of the house, I suppose. I have given no
special directions upon the matter."

Cleaned and done up ! " Bryce almost
shrieked at him.

Delphine's curiosity was excited.

Tell me," she asked, " what room is
this tapestry-room ? It has a nice, medieval
sound. Is there any old needlework in
it that would do for chair-covers or
piano-backs ? "

Bryce looked at her grimly, and pointed

her words at her as though they were so
many darts.

It's the room," she said below her
breath, "where the old Squire died, Master
Bernard's own father, and it's the room
where his spirit will show itself to those
that trouble its rest."

A ghost-room ! " said Delphine slowly.
No one told me there was a ghost-room in
this house." She turned deathly white,
and drew the becoming plush hood she
was wearing closer and lower over her face.
"Why do people talk of such horrors?
It makes one think of skeletons and
cross-bones at once. That room must be
bricked up."

To this resolution, in spite of every
remonstrance, she adhered, and like all
of her other resolutions, it was eventually
carried out to the letter. The old Squire's
death-room was bricked up intact,
sarcophagus-bedstead, skeleton-clock, and
all going into a sealed sepulchre. The
filled-in doorway had a handsome oil-painting



of Gwynedd Ehys, the founder of
the family, Hfe-size, in his steel armour,
fitted into the frame, and in due course
the tapestry-room was to become a memory
in the house  nothing more.

Oscar made no secret of his delight at
the renovation of the old place.

Wolf has come to his senses at last, I
am glad to hear," he wrote to Judith. " What
a jolly place Plas-y-Coed will be when it's
finished ; but what a knock about thing
for you and mother to stay in the house
with all those workmen about. Of course,
I know it can't be finished by then, but I
suppose by about midsummer it will befit

for me to bring a young lady into "

and here the lad indulged, according to
his wont, in a string  no, skein, they were
so entangled  of eulogistic phrases anent
the said young lady, her virtues and graces,
winding up With a sort of doxology at the
prospect of spending a whole month of
holidays in her beloved society at Plas-y-
Coed when, his threatened examination

over, he would be in a position to lay
his laurels at her feet, and enjoy a brief
period of well-earned idleness.

For I'm determined to pass, Judith.
No fear, I shall get through," so his
letter ended. " I'm working like old boots,
and mean to work. I think you would
hardly know me, I'm beginning to look
so interesting and student-like. Pale-face,
big rings under my eyes, and all that,
but awfully jolly underneath it all. Shall
send you a telegram when I know the day
of the exam.  shan't have time to
write  so that you may think of me from
morning till night  not with fear and
trembling, for not a doubt I shall get
through. Whoever's plucked it won't be
me ! "

Strange to say, about this time Theoo's
correspondence with Judith suddenly
ceased, letter after letter of Judith's
remaining unanswered.' She naturally
questioned Oscar on the matter.

His answers were curiously unsatisfactory.

"At one time it was: " Theoo lias grown
savage and glum of late. She is always
(quarrelsome and ill-tempered with Leila
and me." At another time it was : " Leila
has persuaded her father to send Theoo to
a finishing-school at Brighton. She sadly
needs it, poor child. Lm afraid we've one
and all had a finger in the work of spoiling
her."

Judith had failed to find in either of
these facts a sufficient reason for Theoo's
silence to her own repeated letters.

Eventually, dated from Brighton, there
came a brief missive in Theoo's schoolboy
hand, with none, however, of Theoo's old
school-boyish merriment in it ; a quaint,
prim little note which seemed somehow to
Judith's mind to say, under its breath as
it were, and between its lines : " They have
made up their minds to turn me into
something other than I am, so here am I
letting them do what they like with me ;
but for all that my heart aches not a
little for the dear old times gone by."

IIDSUMMER came in clue course,
Mjm a hot, blazing St. John's Day ;

/tr J!T.

birds too lazy to do aught
but twitter in the deep shadows of the
woods ; flowers drooping and incapable
till the thick, soft dews of evening began
to fall, and summer lightning flashed in
and out across the night sky  lightning
so light, so sudden, so fleeting, one could
fancy almost it was wind-blown here, therefrom
one quarter to the other.

It was much such a day as the one on
which Judith had made her first acquaintance
with Plas-y-Coed. A whole year
ago that was, but what a year ! To the
girl's fancy, in its three hundred and

sixty-five days it seemed to enfold centuries.
She had left Villa Eosa almost
a child in face, in gait, in heart ; she
was now a woman in all fulness and
intensity though but one birthday had
passed over her head since she had
kissed and bid good-bye to Uncle Pierre ;
a birthday about which she had said
not one word to living soul, preferring
to have it slurred over unnoticed rather
than to have it marked by any attempt
at congratulations and rejoicing, which,
after all, would be but a mimicry of
the old, hearty good-wishing of the
birthdays past and gone.

Moses at exactly one hundred and
twenty years old confessed himself justa
little incapable of the work set before
him to do ; Judith Wynne at precisely
the same age, less the hundred, began
to feel life pressing heavily on her, began
to feel heart-sore and ill at ease, as though
her youth were somehow being cheated of
its due of joy and contentment. She

thought a good deal of Uncle Pierre, and
wondered over his labours and sufferings in
that faraway country. Also she found
herself very often, as she sat in the
summer twilight alone in the darkening
garden, looking up to the hyaline sky,
saying : " Aunt Maggie ! Aunt Maggie !
I wonder when we two shall be side by
side again ! "

She sat thus lonely and wistful on the
evening of this second Midsummer Day
she had passed at the Grange. The sky,
however, was not clear, but murky, and
the light, sudden flashes of lightning
showed mountains of clouds gathering
together and rolling up from the horizon.

Judith, in addition to her own heartache
that day, was feeling not a little
disturbed at not having heard from Oscar
respecting his and Leila's intended visit.
They had had a succession of joyous
telegrams from him during the week, informing
them of the various stages of
the examination he was going through.

and a final io ocean conveying the glad
news that lie had got through with
flying colours, and that in due course
they would receive a letter from him
saying by what train to expect him and
Leila. But post after post had come in
and no letter had been received. Wolf
had silenced his mother's rising anxieties
by remarking that no one could expect a
young fellow so deeply in love as Oscar
to be guilty of so commonplace a thing
as keeping a promise or saving a post.

Judith's fears, however, had not been
so easily allayed as Mrs. Eeece's, and as
she sat in the garden this midsummer evening,
they assembled themselves together
in troops, and came down upon her with
redoubled force.

The repairs and alterations of the
house were as yet, of necessity, far from
completion. What remained, however, to
be done, was mostly out of sight in
remoter corners, such as stables and
servants' offices. The front of the old

Grange, cleared of its moss and lichen,
had already begun to wear a spruce, not
to say rakish, appearance. Like some old
beau who, somewhat late in life, has contrived
to squeeze himself into youthful
fashionable attire, so to Judith's fancy
the old place now wore an air of jaunty
coxcombry at once obtrusive and painful.

The garden, also, in its first unpleasant
stage of relating and replanting, showed
as odiously smart and trim as the
house c

"I wonder," thought Judith, as a first
and second flash of lightning bared to
her view the rows of small, newly-planted
shrubs which had taken the
place of the old tangle and wilderness of
flowers, " I wonder will Oscar really
think the Grange now as ' awfully jolly *
as he expects?"

A third flash of lightning: revealed to
her something she did not expect  the
face of a man looking through the new
iron bars which lead supplemented the

old wooden lodge-gate  the face of a
man, young, yet haggard and drawn, as
only age or sorrow can make it  a face
familiar, yet somehow strange. Good
Heavens ! Oscar's ! And Judith, as this
idea flashed into her mind, sprang to
the gate, caught both his hands in hers
(hot, trembling hands they were too)
and exclaimed :

Why, why, Oscar, what is it ? What
can it be ? What has happened ? Oh
tell me quickly ! Is Leila ill ? Is she
is she dead ?i"

The last words seemed to force themselves
unwittingly from her lips.

Oscar looked down into her face with
a smile. Such a smile ! As much like
the real, soul-expressing thing as a skeleton
is like a breathing, sentient human body.

"Dead? Oh no, far from it. Nevermore
full of life and happiness, I should
say," he answered, and his voice was as
little like his own as his smile. " Possibly,
by this time she's married. I'm

sure I hope so. She left home some
days ago with Lord Havers, one of the
best friends I ever had  do you see,
Judith?"

My poor boy, my poor boy ! " cried
Judith, folding her arms about him.

Then he stooped his hot, dusty face on
her small, slight shoulder, and burst into
tears.

They were the first he had shed since
Leila Martin's letter to him, announcing
her flight with Lord Havers, had been
put into his hand.

He let Judith lead him to the seat she
had just quitted, and they sat down side
by side in the twilight.

My poor, poor boy ! " she kept saying,
as she smoothed his fair curling hair.

I'ni very tired, Judith," he said piteously,
after a time. " I've walked all the
way from London, T don't know how
long Love been about it, but after I read
her letter I felt I must go somewhere 
keep on going, going, till I couldn't go



any more ; and I set off, hardly caring at
first which way I went. Then, somehow,
I hardly know how, my feet would turn
towards home. I'm glad I came here.
Yes, I'm glad I came back, instead of
rushing away and hiding, as I meant to
at first."

He said all this in short, broken sentences,
with his head bowed in his hands,
his breathing coming thick and fast.

Judith felt she should be glad to get
him into the house. It seemed to her
that a long illness must follow this terrible
strain upon mind and body.

' Will you come indoors, dear ? " she
said ; " you will feel better and stronger
when you have had something to eat and
drink."

Oscar made no reply. His head was
bowed, still resting on his hands, and his
breathing was hard and irregular as that
of one sinking into a heavy sleep.

Come, dear," repeated Judith, seeing
the necessity for rousing him. She gently
VOL. II. 25

drew his hands from his face. Oscar
sprang to his feet with a sudden bound.

Which way have they gone P " he
shouted. 'tell me! I'll follow them,
though it be to the ends of the earth ! "

His eyes gleamed, his brow crimsoned,
a wild energy seemed to have taken possession
of him. Transient energy, however,
for when Judith drew his arm within
her own, he suffered himself to be led
into the house like any feeble child.

In the hall they came upon Wolf and
Delphine seated in one of the window
recesses  the " right period " architect had
decided that the hall-windows must be
widened and fitted with narrow seats, so
widened and fitted with narrow seats they
were.

They rose as the two entered,

Where's ' the little Leila with her
orient eyes, and taciturn Asiatic disposition
' ? " cried Dolphins, her eyes wide-opening
at Oscar's wild and disordered
appearance.

No doubt she thus identified the lady
of Oscar's heart with the little ten-yearly
maiden of Don Juan instead of with
the heroine of the Giaour, less from deliberate
choice than because of her own
better acquaintance with the former than
the latter poem.

Judith looked with appealing eyes at
Wolf.

She has thrown him over," she whispered.
"Oh, be gentle with him  see
how ill he is."

But Wolf somehow seemed in no mood
to be gentle.

Come, Oscar," he said in his usual
curt tones, " be a man, or at least try to
be one. This is no harder a blow than
others have had to bear before you, and
have borne without flinching."

He might have spared his words ; there
could be but little use in addressing
them to one in the first stage of brain-fever.


252

HlJHERE are some women who so
soon as they are born take their
place at " the receipt of custom "
and exact taxes of every passer by.
Their one cry, from their first baby-wail
till Death puts his never-to-be-broken seal
upon their lips, is that of the horseleech's
daughter, " Give, give ! " And
there are other women who come into
the world as it were with both hands
outstretched like any distributing angel's ;
they tighten round but one thing in life
their cornucopia of gentleness, goodness,
sympathy, charity which is at the
command of every one " in sorrow, need,
sickness, or an' other adversities Does

any one weep ? theirs is the heart to
ache in response ; is one in poverty?
their money-box is at once unlocked and
emptied ; is one sick unto death ? they
don nurse's cap and apron, and share the
night-watches till the final hour comes.
They are not angels ; no, far from it ;
only " dipt in angel instincts " which
serve them in better stead than the philosophy
and logic of the men and women
about them.

Judith was one of these women ; her
heart was open to every cry for help, her
ear to every tale of sorrow  nay, more,
both heart and ear seemed to be on the
alert for either. Some one wishing about
this time to give as exact a description
of Judith as possible described lier's as
the most listening face he had ever seen.
It was a perfect description. Her half-parted
lips, her slightly bent head, her
upturned, expectant eyes, to even a casual
beholder gave the idea of a gracious,
sympathetic listener. At St. Andre she

had been a veritable depositary for
old people's ailments, children's sorrows,
middle-aged persons' necessities. When she
came to the Grange, the same story was
repeated with but little difference. Mrs.
Eeece poured her every trouble into her
willing ear ; Wolf was drawn to her as
by magnetic influence ; Oscar brought his
love joys and love troubles in a bundle
to her ; and now, poor boy, as he lay
weak and fever-stricken on his bed, hers
was the only face he recognised in the
intervals of his delirium, hers the only
hands he would suffer to bathe his hot
brow, and bring him his food and medicine.


One of the maids was told off to assist
her in the sick-room. There was an
abundance of maids now at Plas-y-Coed.
Bryce, much against her will, had been
called upon to engage a half-dozen or so
of Phyllis from the neighbouring hamlet,
and now the flutter of a black gown or
gleam of white mob-cap might be seen

at any corner of the old narrow passages
and winding stairs.

Bryce gave an occasional semi-supercilious
survey of the sick-room and its
arrangements. To her way of thinking,
Oscar's illness was as much the outcome
of his own folly, as the breakage of paix
arm or leg might have been after a
boyish feat of bird-nesting.

But, for all that, Bryce's assistance in
and semi-scornful supervision of the sickroom
were not to be scouted. She took
care that the " kitchen-physic " was always
the best of its kind, and prepared in the
best way ; she also regulated in a measure
Judith's necessary hours of rest from sickroom
duties by herself seeing that the
maid who assisted was always at her post
at the right moment.

Oscar's illness was short and sharp. On
the third day after his return home it
reached its height. Wolf, white and
haggard, shared the night-watches with
Judith, in so far as waiting about in

corridor or on outside landing, for a half-hourly
report, can be said to be a
division of labour.

Every time Judith opened the door of
the sick-room, there was he standing white,
motionless, like any marble statue. She
gave him her brief reports, quiet-eyed,
numbing the sorrow in her own heart,
that she might whisper words of hope to
his. He took her bulletin mutely, not
trusting himself to speak ; transmitted it to
his mother, who lay wakeful and moaning
in her room below ; then came back acrain
to his post on the stairs, a tall, gaunt,
despairing figure standing sentinel-wise
throughout the long hours of that long,
dreary night. Had Death with his scythe
passed him on his way to the sick-room,
he must have spared him, perforce, as
being naught but his own shadow.

Towards morning a change set in. The
patient ceased to toss and mutter, the fever
lessened, and he fell into a light sleep 
at first an uneasy, restless slumber, but

deepening into the quiet, restorative sleep
of a little child.

Juditli, opening the door softly, whispered
the glad news to Wolfe

Day had dawned ; rosy sunbeams were
creeping in at every high, narrow window ;
the maids were astir below.

He has slept for more than an hour,"
whispered Judith, " and his face has its
old look coming back into it."

Wolf drew a long breath.

What words can thank you ? " he
muttered. " Come for one moment into
the fresh air, poor child ; you will be worn
out." And there came that yearning, compassionate
look into his eyes lie had not
seen in them since he had sat down by her
side on the garden-seat, and besought her :
Child, child, do not cry ! I cannot  cannot
bear it ! "

Judith shook her head.

Bryce is there, but '' she began.

If Bryce is there, it will be enough,"
he interrupted. " I will sit with Bryce for

an hour while you get some fresh air. Go
down into the hall. There is someone
waiting to see you there."

He would take no refusal, so Judith,
wrapping a warm shawl about her  for
she shivered from her might's vif?il  went
down. In the hall she came upon a
muffled-up figure seated in one of the
modern-medieval chairs, sobbing as though
her (for the garb was feminine) heart would
break. There was no mistaking the sobs,
no one but Theoo Martin  who did everything
from threading a needle to jumping a
five-barred gate with a will  could have
commanded a sufficiency of breath for
them, they were so loud, frequent, and
protracted.

She jumped up at Judith's approach.

Oh, Judith," she cried, and her words,
like her sobs, came in a torrent, " he won't
die, will he ? Only tell me he won't die !
Don't  don't send me away ; I've come to
help you nurse him. I've run away from
that horrid school at Brighton on purpose

:23

to come to him ; had hardly enough
money to get here, took the wrong train
yesterday, and found myself in Carmarthen.
How I've got here I scarcely know ; but
you will let me see him, won't you ? And
he won't die, Judith  only say he won't
die!"

Judith told her of the blessed change
that had set in that morning, and how they
hoped for the best now. Then she took
the poor tired child into the dining-room,
made her take off her hat and wraps, and
have something to eat.

I only heard it yesterday," said Theoo,
and rushed away at once in the first train
I saw at the station ; I did not care where
it took me so long as I got away. Anywhere
out of Brighton I was nearer to him.
It happened to be going to London, so that
was right enough ; then I took a cab and
drove to Euston, and then  and then  oh,
I don't know where I went ; I took two
wrong trains, and one right one, I suppose,
for here I am. And oh, Judith, you will

let me see him directly he wakes, won't

you?"

That depends," said Judith quietly,
feeding Theoo meantime with morsels of
biscuit and milk.

I knew how it would be from the very
first," Theoo went on between her morsels
of food ; " directly Leila heard that Lord
Havers had come as pa's pupil she made up
her mind to marry him. The thing was
how to get home to make eyes at him, for
she was away at Strasbourg at the time.
So she sets to work and writes to Oscar a
sort of half love-letter, making out she's
very miserable ; Oscar fails into the trap and
makes her another offer, Avliich she accepts
at once, knowing that then there will be a
chance of her getting back to Eichmond,
for pa would think she was going to settle
down as an engaged young lady, and Oscar
would be safe to talk pa over into sending
for her. Of course everything turned out
as Leila wished (she ]never makes any mistake
in her reckoning). Directly she got



home she set to work to make a fool of
Lord Havers, throwing dust into Oscar's
eyes by making extra love to him all the
time. Then she gets me sent away for fear
I should spoil her sport, and one fine morning
off she goes with Lord Havers, gets
married in London, and then goes on to
Paris. Of course he was a wretch, too,
but she was a wretched ! " concluded Theoo,
heedless of grammar, and becoming inventive
in her vehemence.

It took all Judith's hour of release from
the sick-room to calm and soothe the girl,
to convince her that she could not possibly
be allowed to see Oscar for many days to
come, and then only when  the news of
her coming gently broken to him  he
should express a wish to see her. Also
Theoo had to be reminded that her father
must be written to and informed of her
whereabouts, and Mrs. Eeece's permission
asked before she could establish herself asa
guest in the house.

Theoo sighed wearily.

There's such a lot of botheration over
everything," she complained. " Half of
life seems made up of botheration ;" which
was Theoo's method of expressing the fact
that the conventionalities of life were a
pain and weariness to her. " There's one
thing," she concluded cheerfully ; " here I
am, and here I'll stay, no matter what pa
may write, at any rate till one of you takes
me by the shoulders and turns me out."

jNCE round the corner, Oscar's
return to health was rapid. A few
days later saw him seated in an
easy-chair in his own room; again a few
days, and he was tottering round the
garden, leaning now on Judith's arm, now
on Theoo's.

Wolf had decided that Theoo's coming-was
not to be kept a secret from him.

It will be impossible for him to forget
the past," he argued. "The sooner he
accustoms himself to look it in the face
the better."

Theoo's devotion to the invalid was
touching. Little by little she ousted
Judith from her small attentions to the

now convalescent patient, taking upon
herself the reading of light, pleasant
books to him, the bringing to him his
between-meals of milk or beef-tea, and
finally the offering of her round, strong
arm for his support in his first attempts
at breathing the fresh air in the place of
Judith's small and slender one.

There had been a brisk correspondence
between Theoo and Dr. Martin, in which the
latter eventually succumbed to the young
lady's determination and persistence, and
consented to her spending a fortnight at
Plas-y-Coed, on condition of her quiet
return to her Brighton school at the
close of the autumn holidays.

Of course I shall make it three weeks'*
said Theoo frankly ; " and of course I
haven't the least intention of going back
to that old curmudgeon at Brighton.
When I do go home to Eichmond  which
won't be till Oscar is quite, quite himself
again, let pa growl as he will  I shall
just choose a nice school for myself, where

the pupils go in for athletics, not dancing,
and lead pa and Sophonisba ' a life ' till
they let me go there."

The first day of Oscar's coming downstairs
was a sort of family festival. Theoo
outraged every feeling the newly-employed
gardener possessed by clearing the garden
of every bud and blossom within her reach,
and decorating every article of furniture
she could lay hands upon, regardless of
all laws of decorative art. Bryce even she
insisted upon adorning with a huge bouquet
of wild thyme and marigolds, pinning
it to the back seams of the old body's gown
as she sat at her dinner, creeping down
into the servants'-hall expressly to perform
the feat. Oscar, white and wan though he
was, could not refrain from a smile as the
old servant flitted past him all unconscious
of her rearward adorning.

But the best part of the day to Judith's
mind, next, of course, to the fact of Oscar
being once more amongst them, was the
coming downstairs to luncheon, and find-vol.

II. 2Q

ing Delphine's place at table vacant. She
could scarcely believe her eyes, and stood
staring for a moment at the empty chair,
much as Macbeth at his memorable banquet
might have stared after the ghost
had disappeared.

Wolf followed her gaze.

I have driven Miss Pierpoint to the
station ; she has gone to London to meet
her maid and to do some shopping  they
return tomorrow," he explained.

You don't mean to say so ! " exclaimed
Mrs. Eeece blithely. "Dear me, dear me ;
perhaps she may meet some friends in
London who will ask her to spend part
of her time in England with them."

Wolf sighed wearily.

I wonder," thought Judith, " will hebe
more his own self  the first self I can
remember  now that the shadow is lifted
for a day ? "

No ! His sun was evidently sunk too far
below its horizon for passing shadows to
affect its vanishing light. His usual mechanical,

weary way of doing, speaking,
moving, clung to him still. In vain Mrs.
Eeece started topic after topic of conversation
; in vain Judith seconded her efforts
with a will ; in vain Theoo racked her
brain, and turned out of them every conceivable
joke or comicality they were
capable of holding ; in vain even Oscar
essayed a question or two as to the house
decoration and repairs; taciturn, gloomy,
and self-absorbed he remained to the finish
of the meal.

Theoo, the good-natured, felt oppressed ;
Judith rose from table with the usual
weight at her heart ; Mrs. Eeece, the
unconscious, chirruped her grace, and
said blandly :

Well, my dears, this has been the happiest
meal I have had for many a long day
past. I am ' truly thankful ' for more than
my luncheon to-day. Don't you think
Wolf, we ought to have some sort of
special thanksgiving service for Oscar's
recovery, just as we did in London after

262

I got well from that attack of typhoid?
Dear, dear ; how long ago it seems ! All
go to church together and make a special
thank-offering for the poor ? Next Sunday,
or possibly the Sunday after, when
Oscar will be a little stronger ? "

Oscar rose hastily from his chair.

Mother," he said bitterly, " I will have
no thanksgiving on my account. I am not
thankful for being given back to a life of
misery. I would I were lying in my coffin
now''

He strode out through the open window
unencumbered with dark yew-boughs
now  on to the sunshiny lawn beyond.
He looked thin, forlorn, a mere stripling
in stature and strength, standing there in
the open with uncovered head.

Theoo's eyes filled with tears ; she looked
at Judith much as a big Newfoundland
looks up at his master to know wdiat todo.
Judith's eyes said : ' Do nothing at all ;
just let him alone, poor boy ! " So she sat
still where she was, looking wretched.

Alas, alas ! " moaned Mrs. Eeece, " if
he did but know how young he is ! "

But alas, alas ! this is exactly what these
young people love-troubled never do know,
till youth is past, love-troubles forgotten.

Wolf went over to Judith's side.

What shall we do With him ? What
ought to be done ? " he asked, looking
after Oscar, still standing silent and
motionless on the sunlit lawn.

It seemed just as natural for this almost
middle-aged man to go to this young girl
for counsel as it did for the untrained
school-girl, or any other wild, romping
child.

He ought to go away somewhere, don't
you think ? " answered Judith ; " a long
voyage might do him good." Then a
bright thought came to her. " How
would it be to send him out to India
to my father? I'm sure he would be
glad to see him," she exclaimed.

"Ah! thank you. But no, it would not
be quite what he needs. He ought to have

good, steady, hard work, something
regular, impossible to lay on one side. I
might be able to get him into the Indian
civil service  yes, I think that might be
done."

He was talking more to himself than
Judith now. He left the room hastily,
as though to put into execution some
plan already formed. At the door he meta
servant bringing a telegram. It was
from Miss Pierpoint, and ran as follows :

I know you will be grieved to hear
I cannot get my purchases completed till
late to-night, consequently shall not be
able to return till the afternoon of Monday.
Olivettete, my maid, has arrived, and
is as charming as ever."

Wolf, with a brief " Give this to your
mistress," went on his way. Judith was
called upon to read the message, which
Mrs. Eeece received with folded hands
and pious ejaculations of thankfulness.

Well, my dears, it's a reprieve, at any
rate, and that I suppose you'll admit. I

know I'm old-fashioned  antediluvian, if
you like, in my notions of how a gentlewoman
should be brought up, but really,
if the young people I see now live to be
old women, well, they'll be examples 
that's all. Now, there's Miss Theoo
Martin "

Theoo looked up, startled and crimson.

Judith laid her hand on Mrs. Eeece's
arm.

Theoo is in the room," she said,
feeling that nothing but plain-speaking
would serve in such an extremity as
this.

Oh, she's in the room, is she ? " continued
the old lady, in no wise disconcerted.
"Well, now she shall hear to
her face what I was going to say behind
her back, and that is, if she doesn't divest
herself of her loud talking, and laughing,
and sobbing, and crying  I could hear
your sobs, my dear, the other day across
the hall and up two flights of stairs  I
was saying, if she doesn't soon get rid

of her loud voice in talking, laughing,
and crying, she'll find, in a year or two,
that it'll have become so much a part of
herder that she'll be no more able to
get rid of it than she will her flesh from
her bones. There, my dear, that was all
I was going to say, and you must take it
in good part from an old woman like me."

Theoo had gone from red to white, from
white to red, while Mrs. Eeece was
speaking. When she had ended she
rose from her chair, went across the
room, and knelt by the old lady's side.
She had stumbled over a footstool, and
swept down a chair with her dress to
get there.

Dear Mrs. Eeece," she said, kissing
the old lady's hand, "I am very much
obliged to you for what you've said, and
I promise you I'll do my very best. But
one thing jou must promise me, and that
is, not to bracket me with Miss Delphine
Pierpoint. I do hope and trust you don't
think we are birds of the same feather."

m

Neo  o  ah, not exactly ; of the two I
certainly prefer your manners to hers ;
but, my dear, if you go on as you are
going now, people, whether you like it or
not, will bracket you with her, and a
hundred others like her."

Oh no, no, no ! " interrupted Judith
vehemently.

Oh yes, yes, ses, Judith ! " said Mrs.
Eeece with decision. " However, we won't
argue the point. We shall have three
days  to-day is Friday, isn't it ?  clear of
Miss Delphine, and I mean to rejoice and
be glad in them, and I think it would be
very nice if we all, every one of us, went
to church next Sunday, and if we mayn't
call it a thanksgiving service for Oscar's
recovery, it can just as well be a thanksgiving
for something else  say Miss Delphine's
three days' visit to London, We've
always something to be grateful for,
whether it be a great or a small mercy.
Now it strikes me, if you young ladies
use your powers of persuasion as only

young ladies can, you'll get Oscar to

shake off this black cloud which is

creeping over him, and come as a

baptized Christian ought, to say his
prayers with us next Sunday, even if he
won't join in our thanksgiving,.

m/f

KQ

HETHEE it was that Judith and
|ffl| Theoo did use their powers of
persuasion " as only young ladies
can," or whether it was that no such vehement
persuasion were needed, Oscar formed
one of the party that drove to Llanrhaiadr
on the following Sunday.

Wolf at first excused himself, as he had
so frequently of late, from accompanying
them.

Then a sudden idea seemed to strike
him, and he started up from the breakfast-table,
announcing his intention of walking
to the church. He needed a good walk ;
he had been cramped up indoors a good
deal of late, and so forth.

Something to be thankful for," thought
Judith as they set off. " Not once since
Delphine's coming has he crossed the threshold
of a church. The first Sunday she is
absent, his feet turn back, as it were, to the
church-door."

Llanrliaiadr church, or, more correctly,
Llanrhaiadr (the church of the waterfall),
nestled in a wooded vale, through which
swept a sparkling stream, mountain-born
and mountain-bound. In stormy weather,
this stream, rushing down the steeps, would
frequently unsound the voice of the
preacher or the hymns of the small congregation
which, Sunday after Sunday, assembled
there. An odd little, three-cornered
edifice it was, built with the greyest
of grey stone, and now, from roof to basement,
greened over with moss and lichen of
every shade and hue. But, though insignificant
in dimensions, the church had a
history and a lineage of its own to boast of.
It was built on ground where a boisterous
battle had been fought between one of the

King David of North Wales and his unruly
chieftains. On the spot where the
king's brother had fallen, the first walls of
this old church had been reared. Subsequently
there had been attached to it a
monastery and chapel, dedicated to the
blessed St. Govan. An underground passage
still ran from the church to the ruins
of the monastery, and a steel gauntlet,
hanging son the walls of the vestry, was
shown to the curious as part of the armour
of the soldier-saint himself, rescued from
the reliquary when it and the monastery
were ravaged by Cromwell's army.

The Qgj of many a knight and lady
found niches alongside the comparatively
modern oak pews, and a huge altar-tomb,
belonging to the Euthlyn family, occupied
nearly the whole of the north side.

In addition to the past history of Llanr-
haiadr, its present was far from discreditable.
This was, par excellence, the church
for the gentry of the neighbourhood, and
had been so for generations. Let the

tradespeople and the townspeople swell as
they might the congregations of the followers
of John Wesley, Llanrhaiadr could
always boast of its well-filled family-pews,
its small regiment of liveried servants, and,
on Sunday mornings, its black-silk equipped
cooks and housekeepers. There, in a row,
beneath their altar-tomb, sat Lord and Lady
Euthlyn, in full-blown county dignity, their
son and heir, their somewhat faded daughters
and daughter-inlaw A little to their
right, seated sideways to them, was a whole
pew-full of Howels  large and small, 
and minute. In front of these sat
the ruddy-faced Lord Lieutenant of the
county, and his fragile-looking wife 
known in London society as " The Orchid,"
from the meagre diet on which she
apparently subsisted and flourished.

Immediately under the pulpit, in
square curtained pew, sat a whole army
of Madoxes, grand in lineage, grand in
deportment  not one of them stood less
than six feet in his or her boots  and

connected by ramifications with every
other ancient family in this and the
adjoining county

Exactly in the centre of the church,
square and red-curtained like the others,
was the pew of the Eeece family. No
matter what iniquities of rapine and injustice
they might perpetrate in other
quarters, the Eeeces had always been
staunch upholders of Church and State.
A Eeece  masculine  had, from time immemorial,
supplied the smaller matters of
church furniture, such as chalices or alms-basins,
and a Eeece  feminine  had never
been wanting to work altar-cloths or pulpit-cushions.
A Eeece had presented to the
church that tremendous achievement in
painted glass, which shut out sunlight from
the eastern window, and although the three
Bernardss lay entombed in the huge, square
vault in the churchyard outside with a
score or so of their own kith and kin, the
Qgj of a bishop, crozier in hand, and
mitre on head, crowned a nook in the

chancel, dedicated to the memory of a
Ehys of a yet earlier period.

The good rector of the church, himself a
Price, delighted to call attention to the fact
that he was connected in some sort with this
remote Ehys. An assertion no one was ina
position to deny. He was a kind-hearted,
cheery old man, this rector, and one who
loved to hold out the right hand of fellowship
to every member of his congregation.
A marvellous man, too, in one respect, for
he had not only found out that the surest
way of winning the affection of his flock
was by preaching  on hot Sundays especially
 the shortest of short sermons, but
lie had also profited by the knowledge, and
reduced it to practice.

Coming in from the bright sunshine and
glare of the limestone road, Judith did not
at first see that good Mr. Price was not
in his usual place in the reading-desk. A
stranger occupied it, a. man short and lean
in figure, but with a grand head; a massive
forehead, that is, with a thick . wave of

white hair pushed back from it ; arched
brows, full blue eyes, the nose of a
Napoleon, but a mouth with soft and
curved lips that a woman might have
envied. It might have been the head of
an Elijah, of a Luther, or a Wagner.

Wolf was in his place when Judith and
the rest of the party entered ; he made way
for them, coming out of the pew to do so ;
then went back, and deliberately seated
himself by Judith's side.

What could be his motive in doing this ?
Could it be that, freed for a few brief hours
from his tormentor and tyrant, he sought
to give up one of them to a delirious phantasy,
a delusion as dangerous as it was wild
sought to cheat himself into the belief
that his enchainment was a thing of the
past, and that his hour of liberty, his
moment of deliverance, had arrived?

As for Judith, a strange, sudden resolution
had come into her heart as she knelt
in her corner of the pew, and drew, as she
loved to, the crimson curtains at every
VOL. n. 27

point, effectually shielding herself from prying
eyes. She said to herself as she knelt,
disdaining hassock, on the bare floor : " If
prayer mean anything at all, I vill fid it
out to-day ! If it be a power at all, it shall
be a power in my hands this day ! If all its
force be as the scientists assert, an electric
force, that electric force I will wield this
day ! If it be, as some sweet saints think, a
sending of a message to their guardian angels
to go here, to go there, to do this thing or
that, that message shall my guardian angels
hear this day ! From me with their sheltering
wings will I drive them to that suffering,
stricken soul by my side, nor will I take
my mandate from off them until they have
done my will. I will pray that man's sin
out of his heart this day, though I pray it
into my own ! "

So she knelt and prayed and prayed
throughout the whole service, with head
bowed in her hands, silent, motionless,
scarcely the flutter of a breath showing that
she was a living, breathing soul.

Tlieo and Oscar, side by side at the other
corner of the pew, looked at her more than
once.

Poor Judith ! " thought Oscar ; " she
is worn out with her broken nights, and has
fallen asleep as she kneels."

"It's her Catholic way of saying her
prayers," thought Theoo. " I remember
now she has a crucifix and a Madonna
in her room."

And Wolf turned to look at her, wondering.
What could she find to pray about ?
Had she so many necessities that hours, not
minutes, must serve for her prayers ? And
then, somehow, as he looked at her, still
silent as any marble saint in carved niche,
his heart began to feel troubled, his eyes
grew dim, he knelt and bowed his head by
her side.

' Repent ye, for the kingdom of Heaven
is at hand,' " said the voice of the preacher
loud and clear over all their heads, and
Wolf started from his knees, and resumed
his place in the corner of the pew. " Breaths



ren," the preacher went on, " I came here
this morning intending to preach from
another text, from notes which I hold in my
hand at this moment. Somehow, however,
the words I have just repeated to you have
come into my mind ; I feel I have something
to say to you about them, so I will
say it if you will be good enough to
listen."

This was the preamble to the sermon.
Then the preacher repeated his text, and
began his discourse. It was the sort of
sermon a good, earnest-minded general
might have preached to his soldiers on the
eve of a battle  a captain to his sailors
amid the raging of a storm. Not one
person in that small church but felt the
preacher was pointing his words at him,
not at his neighbour. His intent on this
particular morning seemed to be less to
bring before his hearers the sweet words of
Christian promise, than to show them the
hatefulness and horribleness of the sins
which, spite of Christian promise, still



clung to Christian believers. He catalogued
them briefly, he described them with encyclopaedic
fulness ; held up the mirror unflinchingly,
and cried out, " Come ye oneby
one, look therein, and say each one for
him or herself, ' this is I.' "

Lord Euthlyn fidgeted in his seat, coughed,
opened and shut his gilt-clasped bible ;
Lady Euthlyn let her veil fall over her face,
rearranged and fastened it back again.
The Howels to a child sat with staring eyes
fixed upon the preacher ; the Madoxes,
small and great, looked at each other and
arched their brows ; the Lord Lieutenant
of the county took a pinch of snuff", once,
twice, three times ; and Wolf sat motionless
in the corner of his pew, with head
bowed upon his chest, and eyes fixed upon
the ground, till there came a brief pause in
the preacher's discourse, when, heedless of
the eyes fixed upon him, he abruptly rose
from his seat and quitted the church.

Judith looked after him and rose from
her knees. She felt as though her prayers

Averse answered. She noted this unsteady
gait, this bowed head, and it seemed to her
that his hour of deliverance had come. If
she had defied conventions, had followed
him out of the church, had gone to his side
and said, " Here am I ! Hand-in-hand
let us shake off this devil's yoke ! " the
man might, there and then, have been
saved.

As it was, she sat still in her place,
thankful, hopeful, rejoicing over her work
done, when in good truth it was but scarce
begun.

He, meantime, went walking towards
home along the limestone roads and rocky
lanes, his head still bent, his breast heaving,
his steps unsteady, short broken sentences
forcing themselves to his lips :

I will go back to the path I have left ;
living man nor living woman shall stop me.
I will get back my soul for myself. I
will trample my sin in the dust beneath
my feet. Judith, help me ! "

So he went muttering half to himself.

half into the clear summer air, along the
miles of steep roadway.

Here and there a peasant met him and
saluted him, but he seemed to see him nota
lark rose singing and soaring from a field
of cut hay, but he heard it not ; over andover
again he kept on repeating, as a man
might repeat over the beads of his rosary,
Judith, Judith ! stand by me, and help
me ! "

He said it as he made the last turn of
the road which brought the old Grange
into view ; he said it as he swung back the
iron gate and made his way along the
laurel-lined path to the house ; he said it
as he sprang up the few steps to the
terrace, and then stopped abruptly, chilled,
stricken, mute. For, sweeping along the
grey flags, in trailing black lace, looped
back here and there with a blood-red
rose, a lady advanced to meet him, with
arms gracefully, but theatrically, extended
in greeting.

Oh, my royal Lear ! " she exclaimed, "I

knew how unhappy you would be at my
long absence  though you hadn't the
politeness to reply to my telegram  so I
altered my mind at the last minute.
Olivettete did the packing in a twinkling.
We started by the night mail, breakfasted
at the station hotel this morning, and here
I am. Xow let me hear you say you are
glad to see me ! "

It was Miss Delphine Pierpoint.

sHE long sermon over, and the
service ended, Mrs. Eeece, still
full of thankfulness for her mercies,
great and small, proposed they should
make a circuit, and drive home by a longer
road. It would do Oscar worlds of good
after sitting so long in the hot church, she
felt sure  would freshen them all up, in
fact, and send them home ravenous to
luncheon.

So the longer drive home was undertaken,
the mountain-air was rejoiced in,
Oscar, invalid-wise, falling asleep under its
soothing influence, and Judith, in the
corner opposite, scarce knowing whether it
was the fresh, strong breeze blowing in her

face, or the quiet gladness filling her heart,
which made her feel so brave, and vigorous,
and young once more.

As the' entered the house, however,
courage, vigour, youth, and gladness all
vanished together, for, floating along the
hall from the opened drawing-room door,
came the notes of a wild Spanish ditty,
accompanied by chords struck with a will
on the grand piano. And the voice was
none other than that of Miss Delphine
Pierpoint.

This young lady had a great idea of
being always " in character." Costumed,
as she was, a VEspagnole. she must, perforce,
sing Spanish songs. If she had taken
it into her head to dress as a avediirsfer,
she would have gone forth into the nearest
churchyard to dig up a skull ; if as
Minerva, she would have gone about the
house with a live screech-owl perched
upon one shoulder.

Mrs. Eeece, as she heard the ringing,
silvery notes, stopped short, with her arm

drawn through Judith's, on the top step.
Theoo, a little behind, stopped also, her lips
apart, forming a round 0.

"Well, she won't eat us, I suppose,"
said Oscar a little irritably.

Poor boy ! irritability was the order of
the day with him just then.

"No; she'll keep us lively  jst,"
answered Theoo, and Mrs. Eeece sighed
in acquiescence.

As for Judith, she felt frozen, benumbed,
as one might who, on a smiling summer
sea, feels bearing down upon him a sudden
iceberg. Her card-castle lay shattered at
her feet once more. It seemed to matter
little whether it were founded on girlish ,
human hope and love, or Heaven-given
faith and prayer. All one ! There it lay,
racked and ruined. Let those who would
try to build it up again.

With a succession of loud chords, the
Spanish song came to an end. With
another sigh, this time one of resignation,
Mrs. Eeece made her way into the ,

still leaning on Judith's arm,
the others following.

Wolf was standing at a farther window
as they entered, his face turned from th
door. Delphine rose from the music-stool,
and came forward to shake hands.

She had arranged some black lace 
around her face, looping it back
with a red rose. Possibly thence she
expected to draw extra inspiration for her
Spanish love-ditty.

She looked arch, brilliant, radiant. She
carolled once more the concluding line
of her song, stooped over Mrs. Eeece's
hands and kissed them, actually went right
up to Judith, and, before the girl knew
what she was going to do, had kissed heron
both cheeks.

A Judas kiss," thought Judith, and
when, afterwards, she had made her escape
to her room, she bathed and bathed her
face in pure water, trying to do away smith
the treacherous touch.

In her effusiveness Delphine disarranged



her head-dress, and the red rose, placed
coquettishly over one ear, fell to the
ground. Wolf mechanically picked it up
and gave it to her.

Permettez," she exclaimed, and stretching
upwards, fastened it, with arched
glances, into his button-hole.

Judith felt herself growing cold, colder.
Delphine's next words sent a sudden rush
of blood to her face.

My Wolf," said that young lady as,
having adjusted the rose to her satisfaction,
she shrank back to her normal stature,
now that the whole family is assembled,
shall we tell them ? "

"As you please," was all Wolf's reply.

"Good. Then I will, please. Did you
wonder, any of you, at my sudden departure
for London ? Did you marvel at
my anxiety to meet my maid  my Olivettete?
That was only half my reason for going ;
the other half was to order  to set going,
that is, for it is a tremendous affair  my
trousseau."

Mrs. Eeece felt ready to jump for joy.
' Deliverance at last ! " she thought.

*' So you are going to be married, my
dear. Well, I'm delighted to hear it," she
exclaimed. " All young people ought to be
married ; I've always said it. Yes, I'm
delighted to congratulate you."

Delphine turned to Judith, who stood
statuesque, with eyes riveted on Wolf.

"And you. Miss Judith, will you not
congratulate me also," she said, " or are
you reserving your congratulations for the
bridegroom-elect, for I see you have already
guessed who he is ? "

Had Delphine been a man, there can belittle
doubt but what she would have
selected experimental physiology for her
profession in life, and would have turned
herself out the finest vivisector the age
lias yet seen.

A drear silence followed this remark.
Mrs. Eeece trembled violently.

I don't quite understand," she faltered.

Delphine laughed her long, low laugh.

Is it SO difficult to understand ? " she
asked. " Your son, Mr. Wolf, asks me to
marry him ; I say ' yes '  that is all."

Another drear silence followed.

Outside one could hear the chirrup of
grasshoppers on the lawn ; the hum of
the honey-bee, as it travelled back, heavily
weighted, to its hive ; the twittering of
sleepy midday thrushes in the beeches and
elms. Within, four people looked into
each other's blank faces and said never a
word.

Delphine laughed again.

Is this a funeral, at which we are
assisting ? " she asked. " Or, is there here
a bride-elect waiting to be congratulated
on her good fortune ? "

Mrs. Eeece did not seem to hear her.
She turned her sad old face in the direction
of the piano, whence had last come to
her the sound of Wolfss voice.

Is this true, Wolf ? " she asked in a
low, quivering tone.

It is true," he answered, in a voice that

might have been ground out of a coffee-mill,
so dry was it and destitute of human
feeling.

She turned to Judith.

Help me to my room, Judith," she said
piteously; "I have heard enough for one
day."

Silently, one after the other, each one
left the room  Oscar going out by one
door, Theoo by another ; Mrs. Eeece and
Judith, arm-in-arm, by a third.

Delphine turned with a gay laugh to
Wolf.

Come, my Wolf, let us have a bravura
together. Your family have not received
me too graciously, I will say that for them.
Perhaps it is because I have not been
too gracious to them. Well, we must
do better in the days to come. What, you
cannot sing  alors scouted, mon ami ! " And
clang, clang, went the small white hands
on the piano again, and one wild carol
after another rang through the house,
blithe and cheery, or jovial and frothing,

as though the singer had not a care
in her heart, or  more perfect simile
still  had not a heart to have a care
in.

""mpi

VOL. II. 28

''H, I cannot  cannot bear it!"
gig moaned Judith, pressing her hot
brow with her ice-cold hands.
I cannot  cannot bear it ! " And, dry-eyed,
she flung herself on the floor, burying
head and hands in the cushions of her
window-seat, worn out with the "riot of
feeling and tumult of passion" she had
that day gone through ; and with the weight
of the iron restraint she had put upon
herself, that both should lie hidden in
her innermost heart.

Was this  so she asked herself, crouching
there in her window-recess  to
be indeed the end of all? Was this
to be the only result to her prayers, her

heart-allies, her piteous strivings, her passionate
love for this man, that he should
calmly and without a word of warning
betroth himself to a woman for whom he
could not have one spark of love  nay,,
more, not even the shadow of respect?
If he had loved her, it would have been
bad enough ; if she had fooled and
fascinated him with her arts and blandishments,
it would have been, though grievous,
in some sort comprehensible ; but
that he should do this in cold blood, that
he should walk into this snare in broad
daylight, with his eyes neither dazzled nor
blindfolded, was the thing that galled and
pained her, and made her feel that her
life, under its present conditions, at any
rate, was impossible to endure.

It was a grey summer's evening ; through
her opened window the south wind brought
in the floating strains of Delphine's gay
voice, carolling still her wild, reckless
melodies in the drawing-room below.
Would she never leave off siuiino ? She

282

had sung thus wildly, ceaselessly, till the
luncheon-bell rang, and again after luncheon
till the dinner-bell clanged through
the house. Immediately after dinner she
had gone back to the piano, and there
she was at it still. Now it was a Spanish
song, anon Italian, then again Spanish,
and then an attempt at a German melody.

Judith was confident that, one and all,
they were bad, reckless, evil ditties. The
expression Delphine threw into the words
convinced her of that, although she was not
sufficiently versed in these foreign tongues
to catch their exact meaning.

Could this in very truth be the evening
of that blessed morning they had spent
at Llanrhaiadr? she asked herself. Was
this a fit ending to those blessed hopes
and prayers which had filled her heart,
oh ! not so many hours ago ?

Then once more rose up the passionate
cry, " Oh, I cannot  cannot bear it ! " and
the cold hands beat themselves together,
and the dry eyes closed wearily.

In good truth the strain laid upon this
young girl throughout the day had been
heavy and hard to bear. Mrs. Eeece had
remained shut in her own room, denying
herself to Judith even. The others had
assembled, as in duty bound, to cheerless
meals, eating them in silence, and in silence
departing, each to his or her own devices.

Even Delphine, strange to say, had shown
a marked disinclination for general conversation,
being either absorbed in her
own secret thoughts, or else intent upon
reserving her vocal powers for musical
efforts in Spanish and other languages.

High and higher rose the shrill, gay
voice through the still evening air, out-sounding
the soft notes of blackbird and
thrush as they trilled their good-nights
to each other in the tall elms. Ho-her
and higher, sharper and shriller. Could a
gryphon on its winged course, in pursuit of
some luckless wight, have chosen to trill a
song of triumph, it must surely have been
in much such an ear-piercing key as this.

Suddenly a man's voice, cold, harsh,
stern, fell athwart the wild notes.

"Good Heavens, woman!" it said, "what
is this that you have done P How dared
you attempt such iniquity as this under
my roof ? "

The voice was Wolf's. The song ceased.
Judith lifted up her white face, startled,
terrified. What piece of wickedness had
Delphine on hand now ?

He went on again, speaking impetuously,
passionately. Judith could fancy the fire
that flashed from his eyes under their bent
brows as he spoke the words : " My hands
are clean  I say my hands are clean ! and
clean they shall remain, from blood-shedding,
at any rate ! "

It was like the echo of the words she
had heard him exclaim so piteously in the
dead of night, as he had shrunk away
from that haunting, pursuing shadow of
himself with the blood-stained hands.

Then came Delphine's long, low laugh.

"Oh, my Wolf!" she said in soft, deprecating

tones, "why do you disturb
yourself about trifles? Your hands are
clean. I'm delighted to hear it ! So are
not mine, for your English maids when
they dust a piano, dust every part but the
one that wants it most, the ivory keys ;
those they leave untouched."

But Wolfss voice only seemed to grow
harder and sterner under her light talk.

I will not have my question put by.
I ask you how dared you do it ; how dared
you attempt such devilry as this in my
house ? "

How dared you do it  how dared
you attempt such devilry as this in my
house ? " mimicked Delphine, exactly reproducing
Wolfss voice and manner. " My
Wolf, there was no devilry in my heart
when I laid this little plan. I thought
only of making everyone happy  ah, so
happy ! I said to myself, ' My Wolf will
be so pleased to know and love the child
I have cherished so long; the little one
will gladden and brighten the sad old

home. And I !  oh, I shall then always
have with me the darling I vowed to my
dying sister to love and care for as my
own child'"

Wolf groaned aloud.

Take the child away," he moaned ; "I
cannot bear to look upon it."

And Judith, raising herself on her knees,
so as to look over her cushioned window-seat,
saw two figures disappearing round
the bend of the gravel path.

One was that of a slight young girl,
dressed in the neatest and priest of
black dresses, with the neatest and priest
of black hats on her head, and a
thick coil of dark hair showing beneath.
The other figure was that of a tin' child,
richly dressed in velvets and laces, with
a shower of bright golden hair falling
in profusion over his shoulders.

Neither Delphine nor. Wolf could she
see ; they were evidently standing
immediately beneath the parapet of her
window.

Delphine's high-pitched voice rose upto
her again.

"Oh, my Wolf, why send the child
away ? My own nephew  my darling
Bertha's only child ! Alien I wrote to
Olivettete, I said to her, 'Bring my darling
without fail. My Wolf will adopt him
and treat him as his own child. When he
dies  as die he must, some day, though
Heaven grant he may outlive me  he will
make this boy his heir.' Do you see, I
said, ' he will, no doubt, make this boy his
heir.' Now say, have I not done wisely ? "

But Wolfss voice came harder than ever
again :

"Did 5ou mean this? Will you tell
me, before Heaven, that you meant the
words you said? No matter what I may
do, was this the meaning, the thought in
your heart ? "

Judith rose and shut her window softly.
Deeply, intensely as she longed to know
more of Delphine's plot  for that this was
a plot she felt convinced  she could not

bring herself to play eavesdropper any-longer.


There came a knock at her door at
this moment, and old Bryce's voice asked
if she might come in.

'i've brought up your coffee, Miss
Judith," she said as she entered with a
small tray. " I thought you would sooner
have it up here in peace than downstairs
with that racket on the piano going on.
No wonder the mistress keeps upstairs
out of it all. I must sav that things are
coming to a pretty pass in the house just
now ! " And, with not a little clatter, she
put down her tray on a small table at
Judith's elbow.

But evidently bringing the coffee was
but a pretence, for, going close up to
Judith, she bent over her and whispered
in her ear :

"Have you seen the. child. Miss Judith?
The one, I mean, that came with that
foreign-looking maid, and has been kept
shut up all day in lier bedroom."

Judith's heart was beating fast, but she
answered quietly enough :

Only through the window, Bryce. I
saw him walking in the garden with the
maid a moment ago."

Ah, I've seen him face to face, Miss
Judith, and I've had him in my arms, and
I've kissed his little lips, for, Miss Judith,
he has Master Bernard's own beautiful
eyes and lovely golden hair."

Judith started. She began to see the
child in a new light now.

"Look there, Miss Judith, will you,
and tell me what that means ? " she
whispered below her breath once more,
right into Judith's ear, pointing with her
lean brown finger across the grey sky.

Judith looked up. The sky was leaden,
opaque in the distance, with heavy masses
of neutral-tinted clouds hanging low over
the mountains. One could see them falling
in slanting streams on the distant peaks,
while here and there in the foreground the
lower crags were steeped in sunlight.

Now, while everyone knows how to
admire the gorgeous reds, and yellows, and
blues of sunrise or sunset, but few, by
comparison, appreciate the grandeur and
gloom of a " set grey" sky.

Judith Wondered at Bryce's eye for
beauty.

Yes, it is grand," she began a little
absently.

"You don't see. Miss Judith. Look
again  just above the elms," said Bryce
impatiently.

Judith looked again, and saw now a
long, low flight of dark birds, flapping
heavy, ragged wings between the dun-green
of the elms and the dun-grey of the
sky.

"Don't you see them  don't you see
them, Miss Judith ? " reiterated Bryce with
increasing impatience. " The rooks have
come home at last ! " .

ES. EEECE's practical philosophy,
JP which appeared to have deserted
her for twenty-four hours, came
back to her aid on the following day.
She came down to breakfast with her
everyday expression on her face, eat with
her everyday appetite, talked in her everyday
voice. The line of reasoning which
had led her to this terminus was straight
and plain, destitute of curves or subtleties,
and ran somewhat as follows : " This
is certainly a heavy blow, but then I
have had heavy blows before, and never
set have I found heavy blows made
lighter by resistance or complaining. II
Wolf is minded to marry this girl, marry

lier he will, though all the world said
him nay. He evidently thinks a great
deal of her  witness how he used to
consult her about the repairs and decorations
 it is possible he has seen something
in her which I have failed to
discover. Well, of course, in the long
run we shall see who has formed the
right estimate of her, he or I. If he is
right, no doubt they will marry and
have a large family. If I am right,
then she will serve him as Leila Martin
has served Oscar, and throw him over.
In that case things will, no doubt,
speedily arrange themselves : Wolf will
be as supremely miserable as Oscar is at
the present moment, and most likely fora
far longer period. Afterwards, in all
probability, each will mend his life with
some plain and desirable young woman.
After all, all things considered, it doesn't
do to fret one's life out over the doings
of one's bachelor sons."

So on Monday morning the old lady

put her key-basket on her arm and
trudged downstairs as usual, taking: her
customary place at table, and making
her usual remarks about the weather and
the health of her big mastiff, which had
of late begun to show signs of the creeping
on of old age.

Yet," pursued the old lady cheerfully,
"although his teeth are going and his hair
is coming off in patches, his scent is marvellous.
The hubbub and scratching
he kept up in my room last night was
wonderful ; all the afternoon, too, he
was in a state of fidget to find out what
stranger was in the house. It must
have been your new maid, I suppose, my
dear," turning to Delphine as she said
this.

Delphine assented.

My new maid it might have been,
and possibly my little nephew also."

This with a sidelong? look at Wolf.

"Your little nephew?"

Yes ; Wolf was good enough to tell

me I might have him over from Canada
on a visit."

Adolf started. Delphine went on calmly
enough :

He is my only sister's child. On her
death-bed she gave him into my charge."

My dear, did she give any more into
your charge ? " asked Mrs. Eeece dryly.

But though she said this with the view
of preparing herself for possible emergencies,
in her secret heart she was not
displeased at the thought of a little
child in the house. She had not had
children about her knees since her own
bright-haired darlings had been taken
away from her, now some twenty years
since ; the memory of them with their
baby fingers and waxen touches " had
kept her heart ever open and sympathetic
to the sound of childish prattle
and laughter.

She longed to have the little one by
her side, to smooth its soft curls, and hear
its baby chatter.

If you don't mind, my dear, I should
much like to have the little fellow down
and introduced to us all. Now why
couldn't he come in here and have his
breakfast with us ? " she asked.

Wolf's face was growing more and
more sombre.

"Mother, we should scare such a small
child ; we haven't had any children among
us so long, we shouldn't know their ways,"
he said in a troubled voice.

Fiddlestick ! my dear, speak for yourself,"
retorted Mrs. Eeece ; "if I don't
know children's ways I should like to
know who does ? Kindly ring, someone,
and have the little fellow brought in.
He might just as well have sat down to
breakfast with us as not."

He is oh, so shy ! " interposed Delphine.
"He is better upstairs with Olivettete than
anywhere else. He is used to her, but he
might make a scene in here ; however,"
here she rose from her chair as though
struck by a sudden thought, "if you all
VOL. n. 29

wish to see him so much, I will go myself
and tell Olivettete to bring him down ; "
and she left the room as she finished
speaking.

Wolf abruptly pushed back his chair
from the table, and went out by another
door. They could hear his quick, heavy
tread along the corridor, and the shutting
of his study door.

Wolf grows every day more morose,"
said Mrs. Eeece. "Fancy running away
like that because a little child was coming
into the room. Why, the sooner he gets
used to children the better."

I wonder what the maid is like,"
whispered Theoo to Judith ; " I'm dying
to see her. Olivettete ! Such a nice 
name ! She ought to be
something of a cross between a Ruth
and a Rachel."

At this moment the door opened, and
Delphine came in bearing the little boy
in her arms.

A lovely picture they two made standing

ill the doorway with Olivettete a little in
the rear. The little boy's tiny arms were
clasped round Delphine's neck ; his fair,
pale face was pressed against her dark,
cream-tinted one ; his golden, soft curls
set off the raven crispness of her wavy
coils ; even his dress of rich violet velvet
contrasted deliciously with her pale yellow
robe and satin knots of ribbon of the
same shade.

She put him down in the middle of
the room.

Now run, and make friends all round,"
she said, giving him a little push towards
Mrs. Eeece, " and then Olivettete will
take you upstairs to play again."

The child cast his eyes round him. Mrs.
Eeece looked old, and grey, and stern ;
moreover, she wore blue spectacles, huge
things fitted into thick frames. Tlieo
looked fat and unresponsive, Oscar white
and miserable ; but that pale, dark face,
with the clear, wide-open, brown eyes, was
the very ideal of a child's fancy. He

292

opened his little arms, ran straight to
Judith, and put up his mouth to be kissed.
Judith bent over him, took the little
fellow on her knee, and folded her arms
about him.

Once some four or five years previously,
when standing at the garden-gate of Villa
Eosa, a poor little sparrow, pursued by a
hook-nosed hawk, had fluttered on to
her shoulder, and nestled for safety in
her bosom.

The incident somehow flashed into her
mind now. She drew the little one closer
to her, and made a silent vow, there
and then, to give him what she could of
refuge and protection.

Poor child ! He looked so small, and
feeble, and slight : the heart must have
been hard indeed that would refuse either
to him.

What is your name, little man ? "
asked Judith, as the child nestled to her,
evidently feeling himself quite, at home
on her knee.

Delphine's face, as she stood and
watched the pair-was not pleasant to
look upon.

Bertie," lisped the little fellow, pushing
his hand up Judith's sleeve, and
tickling her elbow.

Certainly his shyness, if it had ever
existed, had vanished in a most Wonderful
manner.

His name really is Ethelbert. My poor
sister's name was Ethelbert. Bertha
we used to call her," interposed Delphine.
Come, Bertie ; here is another lady
who wants to make your acquaintance."
And she stretched out her hand to take
him.

But Bertie clung to Judith like a bat
to a wall.

My name is Ethelbert Eeece," he said,
looking up in her face.

"Ethelbert Eeece Pierpoint," corrected
Dauphine. " My poor sister married a
cousin, and retained her own name 
Pierpoint. Mr. Bernard Eeece was good

enough to be godfather to their first
child, hence the name."

And how old are you ? " pursued
Judith, then rising from her chair, she
carried the little fellow across the room,
and placed him on Mrs. Eeece's expectant
knees.

Whether it was from the suddenness of
the movement, or whether it was that the
child's ideas were exhausted, he looked
sadly disturbed, shook his small head,
and put his tiny white fist into his
mouth.

He is three and a half years old, as
nearly as possible," said Delphine. " Come,
Bertie, look up and give this lady a
kiss."

In speaking to the child, somehow,
her voice and manner lost all their
silvery tone and silken softness.

Come, Bertie," she repeated peremptorily
; " turn round at once and give
this lady a kiss."

Mrs. Eeece essayed to take one, whereupon

the small mite grew pugilistic,
slapped her face first, then pulled off her
blue glasses, and, thirdly, attempted a
charge at her cap  a huge, much-trimmed
lace erection.

Naughty, naughty boy ! " scolded
Delphine, giving the child a smart slap
on his arm. 'take him away at once,
Olivettete, and don't let him come downstairs
for the whole week."

Enter Olivettete. Dressed to perfection,
she was, so far as neatness of attire went.
She had on the plainest of black dresses,
the whitest and most ribbed and be-filled
of aprons, the biggest and most
mob-like of caps ; but, alas for Theoo's
Scriptural ideal, alas for the expected
semi-ruth, semi-rachel ! The dark eyes
that flashed, and gleamed, and glanced
beneath the whiteness of the cap were as
full of mischief, of witchery, of love-making,
as Delphine's own ; the hair had the same
dark crispness and wayward curls ; the
very mouth seemed made for the same

fantastic, bewildering phrasing ; the very
turn and carriage of the head and neck
expressed a coquetry innate and not to
be subdued  such as one would think
only Delphine and Delphine's double would
be capable of.

The very straightness and formality of her
dress served but to throw these characteristics
one and all into higher relief. One
could fancy she had but donned the
garb in a moment of freak, or else was
rehearsing the part of a souhrette for future
production at a public theatre.

All struggling the child was transferred
from Mrs. Eeece's lap to the arms of
Olivettete.

Plenty of energy," remarked Mrs.
Eeece, smoothing her ruffled laces and
adjusting her blue glasses. " I should say
it was a family characteristic."

Judith noticed with indignation the
sharp grip with which Olivettete held the
child's slender arm and waist.

Are you afraid he will jump out of

your arms ? " she asked, fixing lier eyes
on the impression wliicli Olivettete's fingers
liaci made on his small wrists.

Madam ! " was all Olivettete's reply as
she stretched her neck a little forward,
then tossed back her head with the 
indignant air so common to the
waiting-maid of low comedy.

Miss Wynne is afraid you ill-treat the
child," said Delphine, giving one peal of
her long, low laugh.

Olivettete laughed in response.

The one laugh sounded like the echo
of the other. It would have been hard
to say where Delphine's ended or Olivettete's
becan.

Oscar, waking up from a love-sick reverie,
looked not a little astonished from mistress
to maid. Really things were going on very
oddly just now.

Mother," he said querulously, " since
the thing will have to be done, wouldn't
it be as well to set up a nursery at once ? "

Judith felt somehow she had made a

false step, but scarcely knew how to retrace
it.

He is so small, so slight, it seems as
though the lightest of touches must hurt
him," she said, apologetically, turning to
Delphine.

Delphine smiled up at her sweetly.

And your heart is so large, and loving,
and tender, my friend ! " she said caressingly.


Judith shrank back silenced at once.
Delphine's scowls were bad enough, but
were nevertheless infinitely preferable to
her caresses.

Martin in person eventually
lumbered down to Plas-y-Coed to
fetch back this truant daughter.
He was a cumbersome, cheery old gentleman,
somewhat impressed with the awkwardness
of his mission, and naturally
intent on making out as good a case as
possible for both his daughters.

He elaborated apology after apology,
running Leila's misdemeanours into Theoo's,
and Theoo's into Leila's, in " most admired
disorder."

She was so young, could scarcely be
expected to have made up her mind for good
and all at eighteen ; the young fellows made
such desperate love to her ; the school was.

after all, a terribly strict one, the mistress
no end of a tyrant ; she Alas naturally of a
most impetuous, wayward disposition, but
if Mrs. Eeece would only take his word for
it, as good and kind-hearted a girl as ever
breathed," and so on, and so on.

Mrs. Eeece received his apologies blandly
enough, though, to say truth, she scarcely
understood on whose behalf they were put
forward, pressed the old gentleman to extend
his visit another day, asked cordially
after the health of Miss Sophonisba.

The doctor looked up puzzled.

Miss who ? " he repeated, blankly.

Theoo, in a distant corner, covered her
face with her hands, laughter trickling
through her fingers.

Miss Sophonisba  your sister, the lady
who manages your household'' insisted Mrs.
Eeece somewhat tartly.

The old clergyman shook his head.

I have a sister living with me, who is
i'ood enoufrli to look after us all." he
replied, " but her name is Latina."

Each was too obtuse to see the slender
joke.

Poor old gentleman ! " thought Mrs.
Eeece ; " he is getting ashamed of the
oddity of the name, and has rechristened
her. But young people will out with the
truth, and there can be no muzzling a girl
like Theoo."

And, "Poor old lady!" thought the
doctor ; " her memory must be beginning
to fail her, or possibly she wanders a little
at times. After the years of trouble she
has had, no wonder."

All in smiles and tears Theoo departed
with her father.

You'll ask me to come again soon,
won't you, dear Mrs. Eeece? " she pleaded,
as she kissed the old lady a hundred times
over. "And dear, darling Judith," she
implored, with her arms clasped tightly
round Judith's neck, ," you will take care of
him, won't you, and write to me every day
how he is ? "

Of course she, like everyone else who

came into close contact with Judith, looked
upon her as a sort of petty providence,
destitute of necessities of her own, and consequently
having always a vast amount of
sympathy and energy to spare for the
necessities of others.

Oscar brightened up a little at the talk
of an Indian appointment.

"I don't think I could go through
another exam, just yet," he said wearily;
"but if I could slip into something that
didn't want a great deal of doing, I should
like the voyage out."

Wolf showed himself very tender with
Oscar in those days. Possibly his weakness
and emaciated condition recalled to him
the time, long since past, when he had
been called upon to interfere and take
Oscar under his protection against the
bullies  one or two  of a large public
school. Only it was a woman who lead
struck him now ! It is wonderful what
hard blows a slender white hand . can deal
at times !



It ended with Wolf and Oscar going
up to London together, Wolf having received,
through influence exerted by Dr.
Martin, the nomination to an Indian civil
appointment, where the work, light at first,
would gradually increase in bulk and
responsibility. The examination for this
would be simply a " walk over," the flying
colours Oscar had carried from his previous
examination, to a certain extent placing
him in front of the other competitors, and
guaranteeing his success.

Certain preliminaries had to be gone
through which Wolf found could be better
accomplished personally than by letter-writing.
An under-master at Dr. Martin's
establishment, resident in London, offered
a home to Oscar, and to assist him with
his experience in the matter till the " walk
over " was accomplished and the time for
sailing had arrived.

My mother thinks I am coming back to
say good-bye," whispered Oscar to Judith
on the morning of his departure ; " but I

shan't attempt that  couldn't stand it, in
fact. I shall most likely write to her from
Southampton. You'll keep up her spirits,
won't you, Judith ? "

This was a second perfectly natural appeal.
Judith's spirits could never by any
possibility want keeping up, hence she
must have an immense amount of spare
energy for keeping up the spirits of others.

So on a bright August morning Wolf
and Oscar set off together. Delphine, in
the daintiest of costumes and in the gayest
of moods, volunteered to drive the two to
the station in the village-cart, which, amonsf
other " necessities " for which she had been
dying," had been sent down from London
for her special use.

See, I will drive you both to good luck
and happiness if you'll only let me keep the
reins long enough," she cried, springing
lightly to her place, and touching up the
ponies with a whip, the adornment of which
with rosebuds and the choicest carnations
the garden could afford had taken Olivettete

at least three hours. " Fortune is a huge
car, mount who dare ! Be crushed under
the wheels those who do not dare ! Allez I "
and once more the ponies felt the light
touch of the lash.

Judith, with straining eyes, had watched
the three depart. She had stood on the
hall step saying her adieux to them. Oscar
had taken her in his arms and kissed her
tenderly and lovingly as any brother might
but rarely does  an elder sister. Wolf
had stood in the background, holding in
his hand the flower-bedizened whip (which
Delphine had just committed to his care,
bidding him admire Olivettete's skill), looking
down upon it much as, in the old evil days
of slavery, a poor Georgian slave might
have looked down on the terrible scourge
which a cruel overseer had put into his
hand to hold till the moment of punishment
arrived.

He did not even touch Judith's hand ashe
said a brief good-bye in the driest and
hardest of tones, and he took good care
VOL. n. 30

that their eyes should not once meet,
keeping his own fixed upon the ground
as intently as though he were a geologist
hunting for fossils in the limestone.

Judith was prepared for this, had steeled
herself to bear this, or anything else in the
way of torture that might be dealt out to
her. At first she had cried aloud in her
pain, " I cannot  cannot bear it ! " and her
impulse had been to rush away from every
living soul, anywhere  anywhere to hide
herself and her pain together.

But now other thoughts had come to her,
not of the practical, philosophic kind such
as had established and fortified the heart of
poor Mrs. Eeece, nor of the " dumb-driven
cattle " kind, the " can't be cured, so must
be endured " line of reasoning.

Poor little Casablanca on the burning
ship holding on to his duty with hopeless,
dog-like tenacity, would more fitly have
emblematic Judith's attitude and state of
mind at that moment than anything else
under heaven.

I may die at my post, I will not quit it,"
she said to herself. " This woman and I
are set face to face against each other now.
She may win the game  I cannot tell  but
I will not throw up the cards and say, ' It
is yours.' "

Thinking these thoughts, she had wandered
down the hall steps into the garden,
straining her eyes to get a farewell glimpse
of the village-cart and its oddly-contrasted
occupants.

Strange to say, a man, just outside the
garden gate, was doing precisely the same
thing, standing still in the sunshine shading
his eyes from the glare of the white road,
in order to get a better view of the
departing travellers.

He was a tall, loosely-made man with
bushy black whiskers, searching black eyes,
rather small nose, and gleaming white
teeth. His garb somewhat resembled that
of a sailor in a foreign merchant ship. It
was loose and ill-fitting, and his big straw-hat
had a slouching, bent-about air, not

302

common to the British seaman's. He lifted
his hat respectfully to Judith.

"I should be very grateful for a glass of
water, ma'am, if you would give me one,"
he said ; " I have walked close upon seven
miles without so much as a drink by the
way."

Certainly," said Judith ; " come into
the lodge and rest, and have something to
eat ; " and she forthwith summoned the
lodge-keeper to attend to the man and his
wants.

This was the way in which they had been
wont to receive strangers of all degrees at
Villa Eosa. The man went into the
lodge and sat down, and Judith forthwith
forgot all about him. She read for an
hour to Mrs. Eeece ; she took a walk
through the wood with old Falstaff, the
mastiff, at her heels ; and came hurrying
home, fearing she was late for luncheon,
when, passing the lodge again, Falstaff
drew her attention to the fact that a
stranger was there by sniffing under the

creeper twined doorway, and giving short,
low grows of warning.

A feeling of uneasiness took possession
of her. Through the open casement she
could see the man to whom she had
before spoken seated at the table, his
elbows resting thereon, his face uplifted
with an expression of intense, painful
interest written upon it.

Married ! you say they are going to be
married. By Heaven ! " Here he broke
off abruptly, becoming conscious of
Judith's proximity on the other side of
the window.

The lodge-keeper, a widow, strongly
recommended for the post by the Rector of
Llanrhaiadr, was an inveterate gossip;
indeed, one might say, an ail-but irresponsible
one, so overgrown was the habit
of talking with her.

Judith felt convinced she was giving
for the benefit of this stranger extracts, and
large ones, from the private history of the
Eeece family. :

This seemed natural enough, knowing as
.she did the woman's propensity ; what
.seemed unnatural and unaccountable was
the painful interest the man was showing
in the narrative. What could it matter to
him which members of the household
married, and which departed this life in a
state of single blessedness? Also, having
had refreshment and about two hours' rest,
why did not he go on his way, rejoicing or
otherwise ?

She put her hand through Falstaff collar,
and pushed open the lodge-door, making
as an excuse for so doing enquiries as to
what o'clock it was, and whether the
luncheon-bell had rung. Then she turned
to the man, asking him if he had friends in
this part of the world.

Thought I had, ma'am, but I'm none
so sure of it now," he answered. Then
after a moment's pause he added : " I'm
rather brought down in the world, ma'am,
just now, and I'm going about selling a
splendid recipe for sick horses, when they've

a touch of chest disease. It's a thing that's
been well tried. I've practised it myself on
English thoroughbreds for the past fifteen
years. I only want five shillings for it,
cheap at as many pounds." Here he
fumbled in a side-pocket, and produced a
memorandum case. " Now if you'll let
me see your stable-manager or head-groom,
ma'am, I'd explain to him in a trice the
exact treatment."

"I don't think such a thing is wanted
here ; but I'll send one of the men down to
speak to you," answered Judith, thinking it
just as well that one of the men should
see this dubious-looking stranger off the
premises.

So she went on to the house, and coming
upon one of the grooms left the matter in
his hands.

Why in her thoughts she should connect
this man with Delphine she would have
found it difficult to say, yet somehow she
did ; and when, some two or three hours
after, hearing the sound of wheels, she

looked out of her window, it did not surprise
lier one whit that he  not the lodge-keeper
 should come out and open the gate
for the village-cart which Delphine was
trotting in, nor that Delphine should pull
up abruptly, and with a white, startled face
confront the man, who appeared to be addressing
her with some energy.

All this Judith saw and noted ; also the
nervous, jerky manner in which Delphine
pulled at the ponies' heads as she walked
them slowly past the house to the stables,
and the easy, familiar way in which the
man walked alongside the cart with his
hand resting upon it.

Judith was reading a characteristic letter
from Theoo at the time  in fact, had looked
up from it to make her observations of
Delphine and Delphine's companion. It
began, as usual with all Theoo's letters, in a
boisterous sort of outburst, a " let-out," as
it were, of the energy and indignation
which always seemed more or less pent up
in her heart.

What an abominable shame it was that
Oscar should be sent off to India while
Leila was allowed in peace and comfort to
remain at home eating the fat of the land 1
Why, it was transporting the wrong person ;
it was as bad as sending into penal servitude
the man who had been robbed instead of
the thief. Of course, Leila always got the
cream of everything  one expected that ;
but what fools Lord Havers's people one and
all must be, for they had actually received
her with open arms, and were feeing her
wherever she went. Well, they would find
out in time, as everybody else did, what she
was made of; but meantime  oh, heigh ho !
everything was very wretched. Sophonisba
was naoMof her from mornings till niorht,
pa was glum and sullen as a bear with
a sore head, and the house from top to
bottom as dull and sombre as a churchyard
vault. Well, she supposed sooner or
later the world must come to an end  that
was one comfort ; but meantime, as one
must do something, and home had grown

SO hateful, she had promised pa she would
go to school in Paris if he would find hera
nice one, and go in for any amount of
French polishing.

Then followed a whole catechism of
questions respecting Oscar and Oscar's
health, well-being, and voyage in prospect,
and an imploring postscript beseeching an
immediate reply.

Judith sat down there and then, and
wrote Theoo some three or four sheets, in
which Oscar's name occurred between thirty
and forty times.

It took some little time to write ; she was
half afraid she had lost the post through
adding a final postscript on the state of old
Falstaff health. Had the post boy called
and gone ?

She ran upstairs to the second landing,
where, from a high window, she could get
a good view of the steep, winding road.
Ah, there was the old letter-carrier, sure
enough, ambling along, his horse a little

me as usual, and himself nearly as white

with dust as the cobbles he rode over ; but
but who were those two walking leisurely,
side by side, coming from an opposite direction,
and apparently engaged in the most
confidential conversation? Who could they
be ? Were they in very truth Delphine and
the sailor-like individual, with his marvellous
cure for sick horses ? Yes, none other, in
very truth, for surely no living woman save
Delphine knew the art of walking with so
much grace under such an overplus of
draperies and laces, and the swinging, long,
lounging gait of the man was a thing which,
if once seen, was not easily forgotten.

They must have gone out together
through the stable entrance, for certainly
they had not passed by the window at which
she had sat down to write her letter, now
more than an hour ago.

Delphine did not make her appearance
at dinner that night. She sent a message
by Olivettete, excusing herself on the plea of
over-fatigue from her long drive.

by little the mysteries of
Plas-y-Coed, vhicli lead seemed to
be daily accumulating one on the
other, beoan to clear themselves to Judith's
brain. One thing pieced itself into another
as the days went by, till, spread before her
like a child's dissected map, lay the whole
story of Wolfss sin and the terrible meshes
in which Delphine held him. Not on a
sudden, not as a revelation, did this knowledge
find her out, but slowly, painfully,
one by one, did fact link itself with fact,
circumstance with circumstance, till a veritable
welded chain of narrative was formed,
which, once locked together, refused to
be disjointed.

It had not required the penetration of a
Solomon to discover that Wolf had a burthened
conscience ; this knowledge had ina
manner been forced upon Judith as soon
as she had set foot in the Grange, and
times without number had her fancy made
vain essays to divine the sort and kind of
this burthen, till, wing-wearied, it had been
fain to give up the quest and wait for time
or chance to reveal it.

Delphine's sudden arrival and immediate
supreme power over the master of the
house seemed proof positive that she, if not
an accomplice in his guilt, at least knew of
it, and was determined to turn her knowledge
to account.

It was also possible (the idea naturally
suggested itself) that she had made a good
thing out of her knowledge of this guilty
secret before her coming to the house, and
hence Wolfss inability to supply funds for
the proper maintenance of his establishment.


The more she thought over the matter

the clearer this latter fact grew to Judith.
Oscar, she remembered, had said that Wolf
had come to the Grange glad, grateful, and
determined to enjoy his prosperity to the
full ; he had gone to his room, taking with
him some letters that were Ivincr waiting
for him, and had come out of it a changed
being, at once stopping the repairs and
decorations which had been set going,
dismissing one half the servants, and
lapsing into a gloom and moodiness from
which he had never shaken himself free.
Up to that moment no doubt his conscience
had been clear ; from that moment it had
been murky and troubled. The inference
was obvious : one of those letters must have
contained news which to keep secret was a
criminal action, and Delphine, or whosoever
had written it, had demanded a heavy sum
for the risk she had run.

Now what could that news have been ?

Great Heavens ! most probably Bernard
Eeece's marriage in some distant country 
the existence of an heir, and that heir the

little Bertie who had come to the house
with his father's eyes and smile !

Creation grew very black to Judith at
that moment.

No wonder that Wolf had shrunk from
the child  no wonder at his daily-increasing
gloom and moodiness ! Why, this was a
crime that the sturdiest of criminals might
hesitate to commit  that the merest tyro
in the school of morality would know to
be a cursed and evil deed  and he a minister
of religion, a man who had preached repentance
and faith, and had baptised and
absolved sinners !

Yet, what a man he must have been in
those old days of poverty and hardship !
How self-forgetting and self-denying ! Why,
even the anguish and misery he had so
manifestly endured since his lapse into
sin was in some sort a testimony to his
pureness of heart and hitherto irreproachable
life.

This was the brief that Judith's heart
made out for the man she loved, arguing

with herself that he was worthy of that
love, that the soul which had showed so
noble and stainless in times of trial gone
by, would sooner or later shake itself
free from the chains of sin that bound
it, and soar on eagle's wings to its old
heights.

And she would help him to regain his
old freedom, help him to shake off the yoke
of this evil woman, who, not content with
tempting him into this deadly sin, must
needs pursue him with her witcheries and
wickedness into the very heart of his home ;
stand between him and his only chance of
repentance ; make his chains and manacles
to rattle in his ears morning, noon, and
night ; till in one desperate moment he
makes a wild snatch for liberty in the only
way that seems to offer  by marrying her,
and forcing the fetters from his wrist to
hers.

It was not a pleasant picture to look at.
It conjured up a whole army of doubts,
terrors, and suspicions. Foremost among

them the thought, what would be the next
move m this evil game? So far, Delphine
had wrought her own will to her heart's
content. What was there yet remaining
for her to do ? Was she about to settle
down peaceable and contented in her
iniquity, or had she some other dark and
intricate moves on hand ?

The latter supposition seemed the most
feasible. If she were only wishing to
marry Wolf and secure to herself the
Eeece possessions, why bring Bernard's
child upon the scene at all? Why risk
failure by bringing this infant among those
who had known the father from babyhood
upwards ? If, on the other hand, she were
about to instal the boy in his rights, why
not do so openly and at once by producing
legal proof of his father's marriage ?

And on the heels of this thought came
another, a black, baneful, awful thought,
which set her shivering and shaking: as
though struck by a sudden December frost,
in the midst of the August sunshine which

VOL. II. 31

beat down upon lier bare head, and made
a whole gardenful of flowers, birds, and
insects glad and rejoicing. A voice seemed
to whisper in her ear, clear, loud, distinct
as ever spoke human voice : " One or other
of these two stands in this woman's way ;
one or other will be put out of it. Which
will it be, the man or the child ? "

|E'S a beast, just as much as though
he had horns and hoofs! He's
a viper, a drawing snake, a loathsome
lizard, a vile, gaping toad, a hideous,
creeping rat, a trailing, wriggling worm ! "
and Delphine, reclining on a lounging-chair
in front of her mirror, threw away the
end of a cigarette into her toilet-tray,
lighted another, and puffed away vigorously.


It was the evening of the day on which
the sailor-like individual had made his
appearance at Plas-y-Coed. Delphine's
dinner, sent up to her by her desire,
stood waiting on a small table in a farther
corner of the room ; it had been thus

312

standing for the last half-hour, and she
had not so much as lifted a cover. Even
her dry sherry and drier biscuit remained
neglected and untasted, the small heap of
cigarette ashes in her toilette tray testifying
on what her energies had been
expended.

Olivettete, leaning back on a sofa, her
hands clasped high on her head, her apron
and cap lying in a white muslin mound at
her feet, seemed not one whit surprised
at her mistress's tirade. She only yawned
slightly, kicked off her slippers, and asked :

How did he find out where you
where ? That's what I want to know."

How  how  how ? " repeated Delphine
fiercely, turning round and facing her.
Why, how do you think he could, except
through your stupidity? Not a living
soul would ever have traced me, I'll
warrant that, for I took care to give only
one address everywhere, and that at a
grocer's in Sydney, New South Wales.
But you  you must needs tell Stephen

Geary our exact destination ; he writes it
down, this fellow comes upon it, and off
he goes, buys a sailor's rig-out, works his
passage over, and here he is ; and  and
there we are, that's all."

"You didn't suppose I wasn't going tolet
Steve know where I was bound, did
you ? " asked Olivettete calmly.

"Yes, I did. I thought you understood
that I undertook to find you a better
man than Steve, as you call him, a man
to whom Steve couldn't hold a candle."

I thought you understood that I declined
the honour."

And why  why  why ? " shrieked
Delphine. "What possesses you to stick
to a man who has nothing but a cottage
and ten acres of garden-ground to bless
himself with ? "

I happen to be rather fond of him."

Fond of him ! You ! "

The tone in which these two pronouns
were uttered is impossible to express with
a pen?

"Yes  I," calmly, coolly, obstinately
averred Olivettete.

What, after Michael, and Hiram, and
Public, and the Lord knows who besides?"

"Yes, after Michael, and Hiram, and
Public, and the Lord knows who besides, I
am able to say I am rather fond of Stephen
Geary, my sister ;" and Olivettete, so saying,
rose from her sofa, went to the toilet-table,
and commenced uncoiling her thick plaits
of black hair, sticking her hair-pins into the
cushion in front of Delphine.

Well, this is [the end of your fondness,
that's all," retorted Delphine. " The
beast has tracked us down, and here weare
as completely caught as though we
had been taken in a net."

"You'll be sure to fid, a way out for
yourself. There never was a trap set yet
out of which you didn't wriggle."

"Ah, that may be, but there are no
thanks due to those who get me into it !
Of course I'm bound to get the better of
this creature, otherwise I'm in a bad case

indeed, but it'll cost me a good deal more
trouble than I bargained for, and will go
near to upsetting all my plans, just as they
were beginning to run along so smoothly."

"What did he know? What did he
think we were doing here, you and I?"

"He knew a little too much to please
me. He knew we had the little wretch
with us"  here Delphine nodded towards
the room, which opened off hers, where
the unconscious Bertie lay sleeping  " and
he part guessed, part pumped out of the
woman at the lodge the rest. Off she
goes tomorrow, neck and crop, I'll answer
for that."

Of course he didn't approve of the
marrying part of the business ? "

The beast ! no ! He had the impudence
to J forbid it, and swore  my word, you
should have heard him  that unless I fell
in with his views, as he was pleased to
call them, he would at once go to the
nearest magistrate, state the case to him,
and have Bertie installed in his rights."

And how much the better would hebe
for that, I should like to know ? "

That is exactly what I asked him,
and is the only hold I have on the creature.
I said, ' Of course you get me as
well as Wolf at once arrested and convicted
of fraud and conspiracy, Bertie will
have proper guardians set over him, your
character in my solicitor's hands will come
out beautifully, and one and all we disappear
from the scene.' "

What did he say to that ? "

Oh, he had a plan of his own to
propose, of course, and tried to prove tome
it was to our mutual advantage that
our plans should coalesce. He said : ' Of
course, if I betray you, you get nothing ;
if you fail me, I cet nothings. The thincj
is, we must play into each other's hands,
and each fulfil the conditions the other
imposes.' "

And what conditions, I should like to
know, does he impose ? "

He ! First and foremost that I should

keep my promise and marry him  him,
the toad, the viper, the curse of my life !
I think I see myself!" And Delphine
burst into peal after peal of ringing-laughter,
which, reaching Judith's ears in
the room below, made her wonder what
new piece of iniquity was on hand.

"And then?"

"And then we were to come forward,
he and I, as the guardians of the helpless
Bertie. No, that wasn't quite it either.
He is to come forward, as a stranger tome,
but a friend of Bertha's, who has
suddenly discovered that the child I have
had charge of so long is really legitimate.
Bertha having been properly married at
Bermuda. This fact I am supposed to be
ignorant of; not a living soul in New
York knew I had witnessed Bertha's marriage
; I did not sign the registry ; the
parson who married her is dead, and the
only other witnesses, tAVO sailors, are no
one knows where by this time. It was a
splendid idea, so feasible and natural, I

couldn't help applauding it in spite of
myself. You see, no one at first believed
Bertha was married, and I took good care
to let no one know I was present at the
ceremony. This wretch, however, has
taken the pains to go to Bermuda and
ferret it all out, and now he knows as
much as we do. Yes, it was a splendid
plan, only, unfortunately, I happen to have
other ideas of my own to work out now ! "

"I can't see that it was such a splendid
plan  it would fail altogether on one point.
Naturally, when Wolf was accused of defrauding
the heir, he would betray your
share of the transaction, and would prove
the large sums you had received from
time to time."

The two women were talking earnestly
enough now ; their heads were close
together, their eyes were looking each
into the other's with a piercing, prolonged
gaze, Avhicli said now and again more
than their words.

Delphi ne turned a dead white.

Wolf was not to be there to say anything,"
she whispered.

For a moment they stared at each other,
saying never a word. Then Olivettete drew
a long breath.

Oh-heh ! That was his plan, was
it ? What did you say to it ? " she asked.

I agreed ; I said, ' Yes, my friend, it is
a grand conception. After all, it is better
than marrying him. My footsteps are
light ; I open and shut doors without a
sound ; I creep into his room in the dead
of night ; I put under his nostrils a bottle
of chloroform which I get him to buy for
my sick headaches at a chemist's a day or
two previously, and which afterwards, so
I swear, he borrows of me for his own.
He sleeps, and sleeps and sleeps, till he
sleeps for ever. Then comes forward the
friend with the marriage-certificate. Bertie
is proclaimed heir ; the devoted aunt, out of
gratitude, marries the ! benevolent stranger.
They cherish the little heir, and live on
his property till they have built and

feathered a nest for themselves in a distant
land, to which, at the very right moment,
they stretch out their wings and take
flight, never to return to this dreary England
any more. My friend, it is a glorious
plot ; there is only one man in England
beside yourself capable of conceiving it,
and that man is Mr. Wilkie Collins ! ' "

Did he believe in your admiration for
his genius ? "

Not he. He took to threatening assail,
then to reasoning, then to persuading. I
agreed, of course, with him on all points ;
took my earrings out of my ears (they
didn't suit me, so I don't regret them)
because he said he had no money left 
swore and re-swore my promise to marry
him, vowed to go up to London to report
progress to him from time to time, and so
rot rid of him."

Ah, those were your words, but what
were your intentions ? "

Precisely the same as before, only
possibly things may have to be hastened

on a little bit more than I like, or the
man will step in again and spoil everything.
Also we shall have to use caution
oh, so much  become extra benevolent
to the whole world in general, and the
little Bertie in particular, that people will
turn up their eyes, and say their doxologies
whenever they come upon us in
the street."

There came a long pause now. Olivettete
stood still with her weight of black hair
lying in one hand.

Delphine," she almost whispered, herself
growing whiter and whiter as she said
the words, " I do believe Phil Sunday's
plan is a less dangerous one than yours.
Don't you see "

No, I don't see ! " interrupted Delphine
furiously, jumping up from her chair, and
stamping her feet violently on the ground.
I don't see, and I won't see, and I'm
not going to see ! I won't even talk the
matter over with you."

Olivettete stared at her.

Why, what has come to you now ?
You don't mean to say "

Yes, I do mean to say, and I'm going
to say, and I shall say as long as ever I
please, that I won't hurt one hair of this
man's head, because I happen to be, as
you said just now of your Steve, 'rather
fond of him.' "

Olivettete's smile of incredulity may be
pardoned her.

"What!" sie cried contemptuously,
after Christophe, and Wallace, and
Phil Munday, and the Lord knows who
besides!"

Yes ; after Christophe, and Wallace,
and Phil Munday, and the Lord knows who
besides, I am still able to say I love this
man. There, believe it or not, as you
please ; but I love him  I love him  I love
him as I never yet loved living man, and
will let him go for no living soul. Have I
ever before had such a one as he shrink
and shiver before me ; have I ever before
had a man like him to writhe in his

chains, and yet not dare to shake them
off? Have I ever before made such a
bold, hard spirit as his cower or quail
in this way ? Great Heavens, what a
master he would make, let him but once
get the upper hand ! I can see it in his
eye ; how it glares and glowers at me
sometimes when I smile so prettily up at
him and make him kiss my darling lips ;
I can feel it in his grip sometimes, when
he seizes my arm and says in that grandly
dramatic way of his  ah, what the stage
has lost in him !  ' Woman, how dared you
do this,' or 'that.' Do you suppose I
don't glory in having such a man as this
at my feet? Do you suppose I don't
delight in feeling my grip, my hold on
him, his body, soul, and spirit ? Do you
suppose I would throw him over to marry
such a one as Phil Munday ? Bah ! it's
sickening to speak of the two men in one
breath!"

Delphine, in her excitement, had
stretched out her arms, as though she

were addressing an audience, and, as lie
finished speaking, clasped and wrung her
hands to give extra emphasis to her words.

Corvette regarded her with a look half
sullen, half contemptuous.

Well, you needn't rant and rave in that
style as though you wanted to bring down
the house," she said. " I repeat what I said
just now : of the two Phil Munday's plan
is the safest for us all, not that I'm wanting
shirk my share of the arrangement ;
but I can see just as far as you, my
sister, and a little farther at times, and it
seems to me this ' grand man,' as you call
him, will sooner or later be stricken with
a fit of repentance, and will turn round
upon us all and denounce us."

He stricken with repentance, with meat
his elbow ! " exclaimed Delphine scornfully.


"Hear me out. I saw him come home
from church on the Sundays we came down
here. I was behind the laurels as he came
in at the gate, and I heard him muttering

and muttering as he went along, how that
he would get his soul back again  I daresay
you know what he meant by that 
if Judith, Judith, Judith  I'm sure he
said the name over a hundred times as he
went along  would only help him. Now

it strikes me that this Judith "

She ! " again interrupted Delphine with
withering scorn. " She ! a milky-faced, insipid,
old-young thing like that to do mea
hurt and upset my plans ! Child, you
don't know what you are talking about.
Why, she must have been at least fifty when
she was born, and now she's close upon
seventy ! She ! I've no patience. Why,
her veins run with water, not blood !
The thing she calls a heart is nothing
but a little reservoir. Would any but
she let a woman come into a house and win
her lover away from her side without
so much as a struggle ? "

Perhaps she is biding her time. At
any rate. I strongly advise you to do
nothing till she is out of the house. Her
VOL. II. 32

eyes are sharp, her ears are keen ; see
how quickly she has found out that we
neither of us are too fond of the little
imp in there."

Wait till she is out of the house !
Why, that will not be till next summer !
A Welsh winter to be got through ! Impossible."


There are ways of getting through it.
You have a nice pair of ponies to drive
about ; you can go up and down to London
as often as you please. It's I who am
to be pitied, left alone to look after the
imp."

"Yes, and you must look after him a
little more closely, too, otherwise we shall
have him making more friends than will
be convenient. Only yesterday I found
him in that wretched old Bryce's room,
mounted on a table eating sugar-plums as
fast as the old woman could feed him.
And you, I suppose, were upstairs writing
to your Steve?"

"Yes, but he won't do it again. He

gave her a black eve this morning, and.
sent her away lowing. I've made him
believe that both these old women"  that
meant Mrs. Eeece and Bryce  " eat little
children. I showed him the corner of the
garden where they were taken to be killed,
and another corner where their bones were
buried after the old women had picked
them. He'll keep clear enough of them
now. No, it isn't the child, and it isn't
the old women you have to fear ; it's;
that silent girl with her eyes always wide-open
who'll be the thorn in your side,
and if you're wise, you won't make one-single
move till she's out of the house."

She looked up, expecting another of
Delphine's vehement tirades in reply.
Delphine, however, did not so much as
part her lips. She had gone to a chest of
drawers and taken thence a red morocco
scent-case which she had unlocked, and
now stood silently surveying. It contained
three small, glass-stoppered bottles.

322

|]|HAT was an awful inspiration which
came to Judith in the bright
August sunshine, chilling her
blood and freezing her senses. For days
afterwards she went about the house
feeling sick and tired. She could scarcely
eat, drink, or sleep. At one moment she
felt as though she must rush abroad, proclaiming
everywhere her terrors, warning
Wolf and Mrs. Eeece of the danger which
threatened them ; at another, as though
she must move heaven and earth
to get little Bertie from this evil
woman's charge, and hide him away somewhere
in safety. Anon she would resolve
to make one final passionate appeal to

Wolf to shake himself free from this
terrible bondage, and again the next
moment would make up her mind to
plead with Delphine personally, confront
her with the evil she had done, call upon
her to repent and atone, or threaten to denounce
her and her misdoings to the world.
She actually, with this intention strong
upon her, Event up the stairs to Delphine's
room, had her hand on the handle of the
door, suddenly paused, and crept away
noiselessly, like any thief in the night, as
the thought flashed into her brain that,
if she denounced Delphine, she denounced
Wolf. They were companions in crime,
and must sink or swim together.

Her fears pressed upon her heavily. At
times her eyes would brighten and cheeks
flush as though fever held her in its clasp ;
at others she would shiver and tremble as
though stricken with ague. When Wolf
first came back from his few days' visit to
London, he was struck by the sudden
changes in her appearance. He could not

keep his eyes off lier whenever they
-chanced to be in the same room. Though
this (lid not occur often  never save at
meal-times  it added not a little to her
embarrassment, and made her feel the
necessity for absolute self-control. She
envied the hard wooden mask Wolfss
features were capable of turning to the
world ; she even envied Delphine her arts
and coquetries, which, like the flimsiest
of veils, were as capable of disguising
alike features and feelings as Wolfss
wooden mask. She spent as much of her
time as possible in her own room, or, if
not there, alone with Mrs. Eeece, whose
lack of eyesight made her just then a
most desirable companion.

But the night was her worst time.
Sleep came to her only in snatches. The
rest of the night was divided between
hideous nightmares, in which sometimes
Wolf, sometimes little Bertie, lay white,
writhing, and dying at her feet, and waking
hours scarcely less hideous, in which she



sa at her half-opened bedroom-door,
torturing herself with all sorts of imagined
and imaginary noises.

When September came in, as it did that
year loud and blustering instead of golden
and hazy as it comes at times, many was
the night she sat through, half dressed at
her chamber-door, transforming the low
wind-sighs (which not even modern
mediaeval glass can exclude) into plaintive,
childish wails, or hearing above the
boisterous gusts which beat now and
again against the casement, Wolfss deep
voice calling aloud for help.

Once as she sat thus, chiding herself at
times for her nervous fears, yet utterly
unable to divest herself of them, she was
convinced that she heard a supperless,
muffled tread pass her door and go down
the stairs. Barefooted herself she jumped
up and instantly prepared to follow. Her
door was slightly opened (she never shut it
now till morning dawned), she made not a
sound getting out of the room, and stood

motionless in the corridor outside, listening
whence had gone the sounds. There was a
young hazy moon, across which the wind
hurried the fleecy clouds, and there came
to her in snatches just enough of light to
show her that the corridor, the staircase,
and the hall below held not a living soul.
She listened for five minutes intently, as
though her life depended on the length of
time she could hold her breath. Xo, not a
sound anywhere save the rushing of the
wind in the trees, and the occasional rattle
of an unlocked window. She turned to go
back to her room, trying to persuade
herself that her ears had played her false,
when, lo ! there came a sudden gust of
wind, and a sudden following gleam of
moonlight sped across the corridor,
lighting up the ofF-passages as it went,
and revealing to her gaze in that special
narrow passage leading to the servants'
quarters, the same pair of strong counties
shoes which had once before vexed her
sight.

To take possession of them, carry them
back to her room, and to lock securely her
door, was the work of a moment.

There, Bryce," she said to herself,
I shall have something to confront you
with now, and one way or another I will
find out what work you have on hand that
can only be carried on in secret in the dead
of night."

And confront her with the shoes she did
the very next morning. She waited only
to hear Wolf shut himself in his study, to
see Delphine and Olivettete with Bertie
depart in the little pony-carriage for their
morning drive, before she went downstairs
to the housekeeper's room, shoes in hand,
placed them on the table in front of the
old woman, and said :

"Bryce, I have brought your shoes back.
Now will you be good enough to tell me
what sends you wandering about the house
hopeless in the middle of the night ? "

Bryce started, looked up with a deep
frown wrinkling her old forehead, rose

from her clair, closely shut her window,
went to the door and locked it, folded her
arms on the table where stood the shoes,
and said :

Do you mind telling me, Miss Judith,
what keeps you awake and listening half
through the night, and why it is your door
is never shut now ? "

Judith was prepared for this. She had
thought the matter well over, had made
sure in her own mind how far her sentiments
and Bryce's ran alongside of each
other in this matter, and where they
diverged ; she had also decided that the
most candid was the best method of dealing
with the old woman if she expected to
effect a coalition between their diverging
ideas.

I will tell you, Bryce," she answered
frankly enough ; " two anxieties have kept
me sleepless for many a night past ; one is
for the dear little baby-stranger, the other
is for your master. Now, please, answer
my question."

Bryce shrugged her shoulders.

"Thoughts for the master don't trouble
me, miss," she said ; " but as for that dear
little boy, I would lay my life down to get
him safe and sound out of their clutches
and put into his rights."

Put into his rights ! What do you
mean ? " asked Judith, anxious to see how
far the woman's knowledge on the matter
extended.

Bryce waved her hand towards the
window whence could be seen the groups
of tall elms, in which the returned colony
of rooks flapped, and fought, and
quarrelled, and pecked, as some generations
of rooks had done before them.

"What does that mean, Miss Judith?"
she asked.

Nothing more than that the rooks have
come back to their nests from which they
were driven by the noise and hubbub the
workmen made," answered Judith composedly
; " I mean the first lot of workmen
your master had down from London.

Don't you know you said what a noisy set
of men they were ? Very well, the poor
things disturbed naturally take flight ;
when everything is quiet they as naturally
come back aiain.''

Bryce shook her head.

It's no use telling me that, Miss Judith.
God Almighty doesn't give His creatures
their instincts for nothing. Do you mean
to say that they don't know just as well as
you or I do"'  here she fixed the keenest
glance her old eyes were capable of on
Judith's listening face  " that Master
Bernard's son has come to his own rightful
home ? "

There was a moment's pause.

How do you know he is Master
Bernard's son ? " questioned Judith at
length, after she had borne the old
woman's gaze unflinchingly for at least a
minute and a half.

How do I know ! Didn't I carry
Master Bernard himself in my arms from
the time he was a month old ? Hasn't this

boy his father's hair, his father's eyes, his
father's bold, winsome way? How do I
know? Why, next you'll be wanting to
make me believe I'm as blind and unknowing
as you'd make out the rooks to be ! "

Ah, I'm afraid you see a likeness where
no one else would, Bryce," said Judith,
honestly speaking her own thoughts, for
little Bertie's paternity was proved to her
mind by other evidence than his hair and
eyes. "I'm sure he's not half so much
like Mr. Bernard's portrait in the library as
Mr Wolf is, and if you went about saying
he was Mr. Bernard's son, no one would
believe you."

Her last sentence she emphasised word
by word. She wished to find out if this
old woman had taken anyone into her confidence
; also whether she had any further
evidence to produce as to Bertie's heirship.

"I know that. Miss Judith," said Bryce
in a slightly injured tone; "and I'm not
one to go about saying what I can't prove.
Not a soul has heard a word from my lips

yet  not a soul shall till I've something
more to say than I have now. Then let
those look to themselves who have kept
him out of his rights  that's all."

Judith's heart beat quickly. This was
the point at which she wished to arrive.
She went close uj) to Bryce and took her
wrinkled old hand.

Bryce," she said in a low, earnest tone,
"we must join hands now and help each
other. We are both striving for the same
thing  to restore Master Bertie to his
rights ; only you would do it one way,
I another. Now we must work together,
hand-in-hand, as I said, for the same end
and in the same way. Will you agree to
this ? "

Bryce freed her hand uneasily from
Judith's clasp.

I don't know quite what you mean,"
she said in a troubled tone ; " for my part
I don't care what way I go to work so long
as the wicked get judged and punished, and
Master Bernard's son comes into his own."



"But I care very much which way I
go to work, and I want you to care too.
Supposing that all you say is true 
remember we have no proof that it is true
I want this house and lands not to be
wrested  dragged with threats, as it were
out of Mr. Wolf's hands. No, I want
him, of his own free will, to restore them
to the child with as little of publicity as
possible  as little of disgrace as possible to
the old name of Eeece."

She knew this consideration would
weigh with the faithful old servant if none
other would. Bryce looked still more
troubled.

He'll never give up the house and land
of his own free will. Miss Judith," she
muttered, " and Heaven only knows how
we should make him give it up, for proof
would be hard to get from all that way
across the sea."

"" Exactly," agreed Judith ; " proof
would be next to impossible for us two
women to get without calling lawyers in to

help US ; and think what a terrible disgrace
that would be in the county. Why,
the old name of Eeece would be tarnished
for ever."

Bryce said nothing for a moment. Her
heart was at conflict with herself; her love
for her nursling's son fought with her love
and sense of duty to the whole Eeece
family, root and branch.

I wish he were not a Eeece, that's all,"
she muttered at length between her teeth ;
he would get little enough of mercy at
my hands then."

"Yes, but Mr. Wolf is a Eeece to the
backbone, so we must try to spare him all
we can ; must  do you understand, Bryce ?
You must not say one word of your fancies
about this boy to living soul, nor let anybody
believe for a moment you think him
to be any other than Miss Pierpoint's
nephew. Do you understand ? "

Aye, that's easy enough to understand !
I'm not so fond of gossiping but what
I can hold my tongue when ' there's a

need. That's what I'm not to do, Miss
Judith  gossip, I mean. Now what is it
you want me to do for Master Bernard's
boy ? that's the thins I'm thinking most
of."

I want you to help me to take care of
him till we can see what can be done for
the best. I want you to watch over him
at every turn, to keep your eyes and ears
always on the alert, and, directly your
suspicions are aroused about anything ever
so slight, to come and tell me. But I want
you, beyond everything else, not to show
the slightest affection for the child  not on
any account to have him in here, and give
Iii sweets as you did the other day  in
fact, to take no notice whatever of him, or
else you may be quite sure, before you
know where you are, you'll be turned out
of the house ; and what can I do here alone
and single-handed ? "

"He wouldn't do that, Miss Judith,
surely ! He's wicked and hard-hearted
enough, God knows ; but he wouldn't
VOL. n. 33

surely turn an old Ijody like me out of
the house after serving his family nigh
upon sixty sears  aye, and my mother
and father doing the same before me ? "

He ! Mr. Wolf wouldn't, you may be
quite sure ; but she  you know whom I
mean  would in an instant, if you stood in
the way of her plans ; and you must
remember, Bryce, it is she, not he, who is
at the bottom of all the Wickedness that
goes on in the house, so be cautious before
her  pray do ! You and I must never be
seen talking together, or they will find us
out ; if you have really anything to say tome
that I ought to know, come to me in
the middle of the night. My door will never
be locked, and I know you are famous at
creeping about the house after midnight."

Miss Judith, you are famous at listening ;
the only three times in my life I ever did
such a thing you found me out."

And why did you do it those three
times, liryce? It was not a nice thing todo,
was it ? "



"Why? Because I heard him  the
master, I mean  walking up and down, up
and down, night after night, night after
night. And I said to myself, that man's
conscience is evil, he can't rest night or
day. Then I crept downstairs, and lay
hiding behind the bio clock in the hall, and
heard him shriek out and fall when the
ghost came out of the wall and showed
him the red hands. Oh, Miss Judith, it's
that blood-stone ring I Why did you bring
it into the house ? Why does he persist in
wearing it on his hand, as he does ? Get it
back. Miss Judith  for the love of Heaven
get it back before we go on from bad to
worse ! "

I Avill get it back if it is possible, and
will give it to you, and you shall throw it
into the stream after the other, if you'll
only promise to do what I've asked

you."

It's little enough you've asked me todo
yet, Miss Judith ; is there nothing
besides can be done? Hark! there's the

mistress's bell ; she wonders why I haven't
been up to her for orders yet. Nothing
besides that I can do ? " she repeated this
wistfully, and not a little sadly.

Judith sighed.

"Nothing, I fear, Bryce. These things
are never out of my thoughts, night or day.
I shut my eyes and think over them till I
can think no more. I pray over them till
words fail me, and then I kneel with
clasped hands till nearly daybreak, hoping
for a ray of light. Yet all I can find to doat
the present moment, is to watch and
wait  nothing more."

|i|ELPHIN'E's fondness for lier little
H nephew about this time became
remarkable, not to say excessive.
It took a violently demonstrative form ;
everybody who came into the house was
struck with it. The child had toys showered
upon him from morning till night, a
weekly packet arriving from London containing
everything that was new and costly
in the way of playthings, matched by a
similar packet from a leading confectioner,
containing everything that heart of child
could desire in the way of sweetmeats.
Delphine went about with a pouch full of
these suspended from her side, and literally
pelted the boy with them every hour in the

da'. As the little fellow set off for his
morning walk with Olivettete, a sudden
shower of chocolate creams would surprise
him from an upper window, and handfuls
of comfits and sugared almonds would
greet him on his return. Then, too, his
clothing, always handsome and costly, became
at this time a type of luxury and
splendour itself. He shone out bravely in
lime-coloured satins and ruby velvets,
marigold blushes, and sage-green silks, all
of them exquisitely adorned with the
rarest of Brussels laces and Spanish guip-
ures. Not a servant in the house but what
noted the aunt's tenderness and indulgence
to her small nephew.

He's a lucky one for an orphan," said
they, " to fall into such good hands."

Even the old rector of Llanrhaiadr,
calling about this time to see Wolf, and
finding Delphine and the boy alone in
the drawing-room, was struck by the
maternal fondness she displayed for the
child. She held him on her knee close

to lier heart the whole time the rector
was in the room.

He is your own, of course, ma'am,"
said the old gentleman. He had not been
introduced to Delphine, but that with him
did not make the slightest difference ; the
introduction could just as well follow as
precede a string of friendly interrogatories.

He is my very own  aren't you, darling
? " said Delphine, popping a big pear-drop
into Bertie's mouth, which effectually
prevented his replying ; " he is my only
sister's only child, and if that doesn't make
him my own, what should ? " and she put
up her hand to her eyes as though to shut
out a sudden, painful memory.

The rector hastened to change the subject.


You are on a visit here, are you not ?
Do you make a long stay ? I have not had
the pleasure yet of seeing you at our
church."

Delphine drew an exquisite cross, of
Mary-lilies in wrought gold, from the

bosom of her dress, and held it up to the
clergyman.

I am a Catholic," she said ; " that explains.
But Mr. Wolf is doing his best to
convert me. Ah, the long talks we have
about your churches, your prayers, your
hymns. And I say to him, ' Mr. Wolf, I
would be Protestant tomorrow if you
would but get rid of your ugly hymn-tunes
and sing the delicious melodies we
sinus in our own churches ; and then I sins
to him our hymns, so soft, so sweet, so
touching, and he stands rapt, enthralled.
Ah, shall I sing one to you now ? "

The question was asked in her sweetest
and most caressing of tones ; without waiting
for the rector's reply, she went to the
piano, Bertie clasped in her arms still, and
played the air, at reduced time, of tie
Spanish love-ditty she had sung with such
evil effect on a certain Sunday not so very
long ago. Into the words, whatever they
were, she threw the whole cf expression
she had at command, upturning her dark

eyes coquettishly to the old clergyman's
lack-lustre grey ones.

He looked as lie felt  bewildered.

"Yes, yes," he said, " very sweetly sung,
but  but  pardon me, is it  can it be a
hymn ? "

Wolf entering at this moment had the
concluding stanza repeated for his special
benefit, the brilliant, coquettish eyes being
transferred from the rector's face to his
own.

A dark, heavy frown was the only
acknowledgment he made her, an acknowledgment
which Delphine in her turn acknowledged
by rising slowly from the piano
Bertie still clinging about her neck  and
curtseying so low that it seemed as though
she must be sinking through the floor.
Then, retreating backwards towards the
door, she repeated her reverences once,
twice, three times  not an easy thing to do
with grace, seeing she lead a child of three
or four years in her arms, but, nevertheless,
with grace she accomplished it, going easily

and in leisurely style step by step towards
the door, till finally, kissing her hand once
to Wolf, once to the rector, she disappeared.


The old clergyman turned to Wolf
inquiringly.

A charming person, no doubt, but 
ah, pardon me  a little out of the common."


Wolf, however, was in no mood to discuss
either Delphine's charmingness or
eccentricities.

'' You wished to see me this morning ? "
he said, with a direct bluntness which
brought the rector straight to the object of
his visit.

He hastened to explain. A series of revival
services were being; set on foot bv
himself and some brother-clergymen in the
neighbourhood. Would Wolf, as a clergyman
experienced in such work, take part in
them ?

Wolf shook his head resolutely.

I am not in tune for that sort of thinof,''

lie said coldly. "Also my opinions on
many points have undergone a modification
of late, and I am not so confident as I once
was of the capabilities of Christianity for
meeting all mundane ills."

So the worthy rector was forced once
more to depart, pained and depressed, also
not a little startled by Wolf's frank confession
of unorthodoxy.

Whether or not it was owing to the
change which had taken place in Wolf's
inner convictions, a certain visible outward
change in the man might at this period
have been noted by a careful and minute
observer. Delphine saw it, and exulted
over it, laying to her soul the flattering
unction that her witcheries were all-potent
now, that the man had said to himself, " It
is kismet ! " and had bowed his head to
Avhat he felt powerless to resist. Judith
saw it, and mourned over it, connecting it
somehow in her own mind with odd
volumes of Bentham, Locke, and James
Mill, which she had more than once noted.

as she passed his half-open study-door, lying
among his numerous account-books on his
writing-table ; and she said in the depths
of that aching, overstrained heart of
hers :

He is trying a new opiate now. He is
drugging his soul as some men drug their
bodies, and will be as hard to waken as any
half-drunken sleeper."

It was a bitter thought. She felt as one
might feel who, in a sinking ship, where a
last chance for life depends upon the skill
and courage of the seamen, sees the spiritual
broken open, and the men, one and
all, steeping their brains in drunken incapacity.
There was she, watching, praying,
striving, straining every mental and physical
power she possessed to steer him clear
of the rocks which threatened to make
shipwreck of him. There was he, within,
so to speak, an hour's sail of them, shutting
his eyes calmly, and saying :

Thank you ; if it's all the same to you,
I would rather not see them, and then it

will come to pretty much the same as
though they were not there."

Thus, at least, she interpreted the impassiveness,
the indifference, with which at
this period he surveyed Delphine's wildest
vagaries and caprices ; the calmly imperturbable
manner in which of late he had
fulfilled his duties as landlord of a large
property and master of a fair-sized household
; the utter lack of meaning or emotion
in eye or mouth. His old startling restlessness
of tone and odd abruptness of manner,
which at times and by turns had terrified or
pained Judith, were utterly gone. In their
stead she noticed an evenness, a dryness, an
emptiness of voice, look, manner, which
could only belong to a man in whom all
spiritual vitality where torpid or extinct.

And she, with heart and brain attuned to
their utmost pitch, stood waiting, watching
for an opportunity for one final, passionate
appeal to his conscience !

After long thought she had decided that
this was the one and only thing which lay

in her power to do now. Other things, as
time went on, might He ready to her hand ;
but just now, in this dim light, and with
eyes strained by tears and long watching,
she could see but this one step to take. So
she lay awake at nights wondering and
wondering how best it could be taken ;
from the first thing in the morning when
she sat down to the breakfast-table, till,
prayers ended and good-nights said, she
made her way in silence to her room, but
one thought filled her brain  how to secure
to herself and Wolf a brief ten minutes for
quiet talk.

The thing was beset with difficulties all
round. In the first place  there could be
no doubt about it  Wolf lead of late taken
to deliberately avoiding her society whenever
it was practicable for him to do so.
If che went into a room and he was there
alone, or with Delphine, he would at once
make some excuse, and there and then disappear.
He never offered to walk or drive
with her now ; did he see her in the garden

as lie returned to the house, he would at
once take another path, or even go in
by the servants' entrance  anything, so it
seemed, sooner than meet her face to face,
eye to eye.

In the second place, had he been most
willing  nay, more, most desirous to secure
a quiet talk with her, circumstances would
have been against him. Every corner alike
of house and garden seemed pervaded by
Delphine's presence, or by that of her
shadow. Olivettete. Did one sit down with a
book in a quiet corner anywhere, there
would come without fail a sudden opening
of an unexpected door, and Delphine would
flit across the room to re-flit in another five
minutes through another door, leaving behind
her an uncomfortable, apprehensive
feeling of her being somewhere close at
hand, ready to appear at any unexpected
moment ; or, her voice would be heard
singing in high-pitched keys adown corridors
or across the hall as though she
were coming, coming, and would soon

appear ; or, as one sat at an open window
writing a letter, a shadows would fall across
the paper  one would look up, and Delphine
would be there smiling and sunny,
or sullen and cloudy, as the case might
be. Did one make a vehement essay for
solitude, and seclude oneself with one's
thoughts in a summer-house or some shady
nook in the garden, there would come a
rustling somewhere among the laurels and
bays, and Olivettete would be seen, sometimes
with, sometimes Without, her small
charge by her side. Did one make an
attempt for a quiet moonlight stroll on
the terrace before doors and windows were
shut for the night, there would surely
come the sound of the opening of a casement
overhead, and the sopranos of one or
other of these restless women would fall
athwart one's thoughts ; or, it might be,
perhaps, without so much as a whispered
sound overhead, one would look up and
find, with a start, one or perhaps two pairs
of handsome, large-pu])illed black eyes

looking down on one with an expression in
them not easy to read.

It was bewildering, it was distressing ;
the more so as the dreary, windy, winter
days came creeping on apace, and Judith
was compelled, whether she would or not,
to recognise the fact that every one of
them brought them all by so much the
nearer to the wedding-day of Wolf and
Delphine.

This had been at first, by an odd caprice
of Delphine's, fixed for Christmas Eve.

We shall then be far away in dear
Paris or Some," she had said, with her arm
twined caressingly round Wolf's neck, and
her full, dark ejes looking up into his
dulled grey ones, " when your odious plum-puddings
and mince-pies are being eaten.
Heavens ! what men and women can bring
themselves to feed upon ! "

Wolf had acquiesced in this arrangement,
making no effort to free himself from
her caressing white hand.

Of a truth, so he said to himself many
VOL. n. 34

times in the day now, in the path he had
chosen to tread a thorn more or less could
matter but little.

He announced the date of the wedding-day
in the calmest and driest of voices to
his mother the next time they met at table.

"So soon, Wolf?" was all Mrs. Eeece's
reply, in a tone neither complimentary nor
congratulatory. And the thought in her
heart as she said this was : " Well, if she is
going to throw him over, she'll have to be
quick about it. What a fool Wolf is to
hurry matters forward so ! "

Bryce happened to be in the room at the
time the announcement was made, having
come in on a mission from the servants*
quarters. She came up to Wolf's side with
a troubled look on her old face.

Sir," she said, warningly, " if you must
have the wedding-feast on Christmas Eve,
you'll mind to have the empty chair put for
the missing guest. No Eeece for the last
hundred years has made a feast on Christmas
Eve without it."

I do not understand," began Wolf in an
indifferent tone.

Delphine came forward quivering with
curiosity. The one weak point in this
young person's composition was superstition.
Her belief in ancient myth and
legend, in the wildest of old wives' fables,
was marvellous. It was possibly the only
outlet her manner of life had left her for
belief in the unseen and unknown. Her
scepticism found continuous vent amid the
proprieties and virtues of her fellow-creatures.


Now what's this  who's the missing
guest, I should like to know, and why
must an empty chair be put for him ? " she
exclaimed, hurrying her words out with a
forgetfulness of their ordinary accompaniment
of arch glances and dimpling smiles
unusual to her.

Bryce began to explain.

"It's only when a banquet's made on
Christmas Eve. People often forget those
who ought to be asked, and those whose

342

hearts are right with their relatives and
friends like to leave an empty chair for
them, so that if they came in they would
see they had been thought of. Once a
Eeece made a banquet on Christmas Eve,

and forgot to put the chair " She

broke off abruptly.

Well, what happened P " queried Delphine
sharply.

It was a feast given to all the tenants
and servants on the estate, and they left
out one who ought to have been there, the
old toll-keeper of Llanrhaiadr gate," said
Bryce, raising her voice to narrative pitch.
He was nearly ninety years of age, and
they thought he was too old to get so far.
But worst of all, they forgot to ]put the
empty chair, and when in the middle of
the feast the old man came in, hobbling
and limping, there was no seat for him to
be seen. So up he went straight to the
squire and said : ' Squire, yesterday at midnight
I looked out at my window and saw
(for all the gate was shut) a whole procession

of mourners and a hearse with black
nodding plumes go through. A man followed
a long way behind, weeping bitterly.
I went up to him and said : " Master, whose
corpse is that that went through the gate
a moment ago ? " He turned and looked at
me, and said : " The corpse of one who
forgets the aged and poor." Squire, I
didn't know who he meant till I came here
to-day and found never a place left for me at
table.' It all came true," here Bryce's voice
dropped to a dismal whisper, " the squire
was dead before the end of the week, and
his corpse was carried along that very road,
the old toll-keeper himself opening the
gate to let it pass through."

Delphine had turned very white while
the story was being told.

Oh, you old raven ! " she said, shrugging
her shoulders, and turning her back
on the old body. But, when she found
herself once more alone with Wolf it was :
My Wolf, it shall not be Christmas Eve
after all, nor any day this year, for on

second thoughts it is an uneven number
and uneven numbers don't serve me well.
We will wait till the bright new year comes
in, and then we will not say one word to
anybody about it, but will creep up to
London together, find out a nice little
registry-office, just go in and sign our
names, drive away and enjoy the most
delicious of champagne lunches, and then
off we'll go to the dearest, pleasantness city
in the world  darling, diabolical Paris,
where if such dreary things as corpses and
hearses do exist, people at any rate are too
polite to talk about them."

END OF VOL. n.

//

M



OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or 1' "

The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161 O-I096

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/judithwynnenovel03pirk

BY

C. L. Piers,

AUTHOR OF " DI PAWCETT," "A VERY OPAL," &C., &C.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE & CO., 31, SOUTHAMPTON ST., STRAND, W.C.

1884.

KELLY & CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

TO

NORAH MARGUERITE CHANDOS CECIL

THIS BOOK

r

NUTF3EI.D, 3884.

Crown 8vo, doth, 35. 6d. each.

By Florence Marryat.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM.

Phyllis.

THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL

FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

By Annie Thomas.

ALLERTON TOWERS.
FRIENDS AND LOVERS.
EYRE OF London.

By Mrs. Eiloart.

THE DEAN'S WIFE.
SOME OF OUR GIRLS.

By Lady Constance Howard.

sweetheart and wife,
mollie darling.

By the Author of "Recommended to
Mercy."

BARBARA'S WARNING.

By Mrs. Alexander Fraser.

A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

By Harriettt Jay.

TWO MEN AND A MAID.

VOLUME III

CHAPTEE I.

jLL things come to him who waits,"
said someone once, and Judith
one day proved the truth of the
saying. The opportunity for which she had
watched, and waited, and longed suddenly
and unexpectedly presented itself, and,
quick as any wild bird darting on its prey,
she seized it.

It happened in this wise. The day had
been rough and blustering as days towards
the end of October are apt to be ; sunshine
had come in fitful gleams ; heavy
gusts of wind had by turns dashed hail or
rain against the panes. Towards evening,
however, the wind fell, the sky cleared, and
VOL. in. 35

the linter's moon rose high and bright
over the mountains.

Mrs. Eeece had gone straight to her
room after dinner, saying she was tired and
would have her coffee upstairs ; Delphine
making the drawing-room unendurable to
Judith by incessant and highly melodramatic
carolling, she wrapped a warm,
thick shawl round her and went out into
the garden. Finding FalstafF snuffing
about the lawn, it occurred to her how
much the old dog would enjoy a ramble in
the fields beyond, and, without a thought
for the lateness of the hour, she forthwith
slipped out at a side gate.

The fields lay steeped in the pure silver
might of the moon ; beyond, the mountains
loomed darkly out of the shadowy clouds.
FalstafF went bounding hither and thither,
delighted at his unlooked-for treat, giving
now and again short, sharp, enquiring
barks as he scented here a mole, there a
rabbit. Judith, drawing her shawl tightly
around her, leaned idly against . a rough-barked
elm, thinking her own thoughts.

There came the sound of footsteps drawing
near  nearer.

One of those dreadful women," she
thought to herself ; " inside or outside the
house it is all one  there is no peace for
them."

No such thing. Not Delphine nor Olivet,
had they tied weights to their ankles,
could have attained so majestic a tread as
this. It was a man's, not a doubt, and
there was he coming hurriedly down the
gravel path as though he had a mission on
hand. It was Wolf, and his mission was to
search for Judith and bring her back to
the house.

Judith started as he came up to her, but
he gave her no time for exclamation.

Child, what is this ? " he cried. " What
are you doing out here at this time of
night ? I was standing at my study window,
and saw you go out by the side gate.
Come in at once, or you'll be catching your
death of cold."

Judith looked up at him drearily enough.
Something in his voice at this moment 



called the pleading earnestness with which,
as she had wept her heart out over Uncle
Pierre's letter, he had cried : *' Child, child,
you must not give way like this. I cannot
cannot bear it ! "

Ah, how far away that day seemed now !
Then she had had a something of hope in
her heart for herself, for him. Now scarce
a ghost of it remained.

And no wonder !

Possibly something of her thoughts
showed in her face, as she remained
silently leaning against the tree, making
no effort to do his bidding, for he suddenly
laid his hand upon her shoulder, and, looking
right down into her white, tired face,
exclaimed :

"Child, child, are you ill? Great
Heavens! what can have happened to
change you in this way? Can this bethe
Judith who came to the house little
more than a year ago to be taken care of
and made happy ? "

The words seemed, as it were, . startled
out of him. For one brief moment the

bonds of restraint he lead laid upon himself
were loosened.

Judith answered his look with the clearest
and truest that human eyes could give.

No," she said, in low, distinct tones, " I
am not the same Judith who came to your
house a little more than a year ago, and
nothing yiH ever make me the same
again."

Child, child, you don't know what you
are saying ! " he cried, vehemently ; " you
will oro from here to another and brighter
life, and all this will ue to you as though it
had never been. It will pass out of your
mind utterly  it must, it will  and you
will lead the pure and happy life you deserve
to lead. I say it must, it will be so! "

It seemed as though he reiterated the
words himself to convince himself.

So, then, I am shallow-hearted as well
as of no use to my fellow-creatures ? "

He caught at her words angrily.

Use, use ! " he repeated. " Why are
you always wishing to be of use ? It
seems the one cry of your life. Would

you have those who are sinking deep and
deeper into the mire catch hold of your
little hand to help them out simply because
sou are good enough to stretch it towards
them ? "

I would. And so long as I have life and
breath it will remain outstretched."

It was said without variation of voice, ia
the same low, distinct tones as before, she
looking up into his face, he down into hers.

The night breeze swept by ; a few yellow
leaves fell from the old elm on Judith's
thick shawl ; the moon looked down upon
them, quiet-eyed. She was shining down
on many a pair of disconsolate lovers, no
doubt  on many a sorrow stricken, weary
soul beside  but nowhere, by hillside or
shady avenue, did her pure pale rays light
up a face more white and haggard than
Judith's, upturned to meet Wolf's, more
fiercely forlorn than Wolfss, down-looking
to meet Judith's.

But as he looked and looked, the fierceness
died utterly out of his face, and only
the forlornness remained. Once he opened

his lips as though about to speak, then
closed them resolutely; his eyes drooped
before hers ; he turned from her abruptly ;
made a few hasty strides up and down the
moonlit field ; came back to her side with
face blank, calm, passionless as any masked
mummer's might be.

Come, Judith," he said quietly, " come
in at once ; we will talk no more of these
things. I have succeeded in quieting 
what shall we call it?  my soul, my
nerves, or that inherited instinct we are
pleased to designate conscience ; I beg of
you not to disturb it, and wrench from
me the only chance of peace and quiet I
may get to the end of my life. Let me
alone, child ; it is all I ask of you now
let me alone ! "

He had drawn her arm through his
while he was speaking, and was leading
her now at a somewhat rapid pace towards
the house.

Judith felt as though her last opportunity
were slipping away from her. Speak now,
OT never, she must.

I would wrench from you perchance
of peace and quiet," she said, her voice
scarcely above a whisper, " till you get
the only peace that is real and lasting  the
peace that comes from doing right."

He had swung back the iron gate for her
to enter. They were now standing in the
wide gravel-path that led straight up to the
house. It lay steeped in moonlight like
the fields outside, tesselated here and therewith
the shifting shadows of laurel and
arbutus leaflets.

He paused with his hand on the gate.

What is right ? " he asked dreamily,
absently. Something over eighteen hundred
years ago Pilate once asked a similar
question, and He, who held the secrets of
life in His hand, gave him no answer.
Judith showed less reticence.

Words rushed to her lips.

What is right ? " she repeated, her
voice ringing out clear and strong. "What
is light  what is colour ? Not I, nor fifty
others might be able to tell you what are
the elements of either  what makes each

what it is. Yet we know light when we
see it, we know colour when we see it.
We do not need to be told, this is night,
this is morning ; this is blue, this is red."

"Ah, you misunderstood my question,"
said Wolf in the same dreamy, self-absorbed
tone. " I did not ask by what faculty
in our nature we discern what is right ;
mine was a practical, not a psychological
question. I meant to ask, what is the criterion
of a moral act ? What, in fact, is
the moral standard? What circumstance,
if I may so put it, decides an action to be
right, and not wrong ? "

Judith stared at him for a moment
blankly. Had he in very truth so beclouded
his moral sense that he was
obliged to go to another to be guided in
his discernment of good or evil ; or was
this a genuine, unassumed effort to sift
right from wrong, lies from truth ?

"Do you mean to tell me," she asked,
her brain going round, her eyes wide open,
that you actually do not know truth or
justice from falsehood and dishonesty?"

His face was turned from her, so that
she could not see it. He brought out
his words in the same slow, faraway tone
as before.

Truth ! justice I " he repeated ; " what
are they, after all, but means to an end,
and that end, men's happiness ? They are
not the end themselves. Now, it seems
to me, if I can reach that end by a shorter
road I am justified in taking it  yes, amply
justified."

Judith's heart went beating harder and
faster. Was not this mere sophistry ? Was
it  could it by any possibility be the
honest utterance of an honest heart?

She tried to keep the sound of tears
out of her voice as she asked a question
in return :

Would you for one instant weigh the
happiness of a lifetime against the evil-doing
of an hour? Would you weigh
truth and justice against a lifetime of
sorrow and self-denial?"

They were walking along the gravel-path
now, towards the house. He, still

keeping his face turned from her, continued
in the same slow, dreamy tones :

The infliction of pain and the surrender
of pleasure can only be justified by being
the means of procuring a greater amount
of happiness than was lost. Now, if I,
by a certain course of action, can give to
a larger number of persons a greater
amount of happiness than they before possessed,
I say, let that course of action be
painful to me or pleasant, I am perfectly
justified in taking it."

Judith stood still in the middle of the
moonlit path. She laid her hand upon
his arm ; look at her he must and should.

Tell me," she said in a low, tremulous
voice, " when you talk of making the
happiness of other persons, do you
mean good persons or evil persons . For
remember, wdiat means pleasure and comfort
to the one, means anguish and heartache
to the other."

He turned and faced her in the moonlight
; he could not help it, for she stood
right athwart his path. Surely never

living man before wore so troubled and
forlorn a look.

Ah, now you bring us back to our
starting-point," he said. " Who are the
good persons, who are the evil? What
is good  what is evil ? "

Judith struck her hands together passionately
with a bitter cry.

Is this night or is this morning ? Is
the light in which we are stepping now
rosy and golden, or is it pure pale white ? "
she asked vehemently.

The troubled look did not leave his face,
though a ghost of a smile  a wean, wintry
sort of thing  seemed to flit over it ashe
answered :

What if I am colour-blind, Judith,
without perception of the difference there
is between rosy-yellow and pure pale
white ? "

Then yours would be a self-made
colour-blindness, for you are not one of
those who were born blind," she answered
in the same vehement tone a3 before ;
only when the time comes, and Christ

passes by, do not sit by the wayside crying,
Jesus, Master, have mercy on me ! ' for
He will not hear you  I say. He will not
will not hear you."

His troubled eyes met her eager, passionate
gaze.

I am not likely to do that ; no, whatever
else I do I shall not do that ; " and
there was that in his voice which told her
he meant what he said.

They had reached the terrace now.
There came the sound of a window opening
overhead, and Delphine's soft voice
followed immediately.

My Wolf," she said caressingly, " I
want some sweet-scented flowers to put
under my pillow. See, I will drop you my
handkerchief; you can fill it with something
fragrant, and send it up to me. Ah,
Miss Judith is there ! You have been having
a moonlight walk. Is it not sweet of me
not to be jealous ? But I know I can trust
my Wolf!"

Judith made no reply. She felt suffocating,
as though even the power of

drawing her breath were being denied
lier.

She somehow made her way into the
house, groping for each step, for her tears
were Winding her.

Once in her own room she flung herself
on the floor, wringing her hands in her
despair. Why, this was worst of all! She
had absolutely thrown away her last
chance! She had meant to plead, entreat,
warn, beseech ; instead she had
argued, dogmatism, denounced. Heaven
help them! How would it all end now?

INTEE set in early that year, and
|[|jj brought with it a terrible return
of rheumatism to poor Mrs. Eeece.
Stairs became an impossibility to her ; she
was almost confined to a big easy-chair in
her own room with the worthy but somewhat
archaic doctor from Llanrhaiadr
(everything at Llanrhaiadr was worthy and
archaic) in daily attendance.

Wolf, Delphine, and Judith made buta
sorry trio downstairs. They ate their
meals almost in silence, and separated so
soon as they were at an end. If only little
Bertie had been allowed to take his place
with them at table, his childish prattle
might in some sort have lightened the
dreary monotony. But no ; he was strictly

confined to his own quarters, emevmno-
thence only for his morning walk with
Corvette, his afternoon drive with .


Judith spent as much of her time as
possible upstairs with Mrs. Eeece, declining
any and every friendly overture on Delphine's
part with a frigid persistence that
was unmistakable. Delphine, however,
never seemed to feel herself snubbed. She
would shrug her shoulders, lift her eyebrows,
and repeat her little friendliness
on every possible occasion. As for Wolf,
he had once more drawn a line of demarcation
between Judith and himself, which
neither he nor she showed the slightest
inclination to step over. Save at meals
they never met ; and when on one or two
occasions Delphine was absent in London
for a few days, he sent each time a polite
message to Judith by the old butler,
requesting her not ta wait luncheon or
dinner for him, as pressure of business
compelled him to spend the day in his
study.

These visits of Delphine to London
increased in frequency as the winter set
in. Judith could not say why or wherefore,
but somehow in her own thoughts she
connected them with the sailor-ike individual
who had manifested such a
surprising interest in Delphine's matrimonial
arrangements. Yet Delphine never
failed to give an ostensible and very
plausible reason for each one of her sudden
flights. Sometimes she would appear at
the breakfast-table saying :

Bertie has absolutely nothing to wear.
I must run up to London and get him a few
things ; " and on her return to Plas-y-Coed,
Bertie never failed to shine out brilliantly
in renewed velvets or satins. Or on
another occasion it would be : " My Wolf,
I want another pair of ponies ; those
creatures of yours have hides, not skins,
they will go only when they please, and as
they please. Now, I want two thoroughbreds,
all fire, all life, all go. There is
a sale on at Tattersall's. I must go and
see if I can get what I want there."
VOL. m. 36

And this visit to London was followed indue
course by the arrival of a pair of
small-footed, straight-limbed roads, with
fiery eyes and a bright dash of red about
the mane and tail.

Judith, while in a measure rejoicing in
the quietude the household gained dung
Delphine's brief absences, could not help
a secret feeling of dread as to what they
might bring in their train. By this time
she had learned to distrust every look of
Delphine's, every word she uttered, and,
could she have read her thoughts, she would
have distrusted them also, feeling sure there
would be an under-current even there which
would run counter to the upper.

Mrs. Eeece, growing irritable and inquisitive,
after the manner of elderly persons
confined through ill-health to a few square
feet of boards, put many questions to Judith
about Delphine's repeated journeys.

Surely she must have friends in London
by this time," surmised the old lady, " if she
hadn't dien she first came. Does she goto
an hotel, I wonder, or what can she do

with herself careering about all alone ?
And do you think, my dear," this very
earnestly, " that Wolf pays her expenses,
and gives her money for all the extravagances
she brings back with her ? Now
those ponies ; I should like particularly to
know about them. Are they Wolfss or are
they this young lady's ?  that's what I
should like to know."

Judith confessed herself unable to give
the required information. Mrs. Eeece went
off on another tack.

Well now, there's something else that
troubles me, and no one seems able to tell
me anything on the matter, though I speak
of it to Bryce regularly every morning, dien
she comes for my keys. That is, what is
going to be done with that little child, that
bad-tempered little creature who nearly
dragged my head off my shoulders  he'll
grow up just such another as his aunt, take
my word for it, my dear. Now I want to
know if he's to be a fixture here as well as
the aunt, and what they mean to do with
him when they're off on their honeymoon  

362

that is, if there is to be a honeymoon,
which, all things considered, I'm rather
disposed to doubt. Will they leave him
here, with that sullen, bad-tempered maid,
whom none of the servants like, she carries
her head so high, or will they take him off
to Paris with them, or Some, or wherever
they mean to go ? "

Again Judith shook her head.

"Why not ask Wolf himself what he
means to do with the child ? " she suggested.

The words were scarcely off her lips
before the door opened and Wolf made his
appearance. He had a letter in his hand.

I have brought you good news from
Oscar," he said, his face wearing the nearest
approach to gladness of which it was
capable. "He has passed the preliminary
exam, well, and has been well received by
his chief that is to be. Altogether his letter
is the brightest we have had from him yet."

Mrs. Eeece stretched out her hand for
the letter.

Judith will read it to me . presently,"
she said ; " but. Wolf, there is something I

am very anxious to ask you about. In fact,
it was on my lips just as you came in.
What are you going to do with the small
child who I hear  for he has tremendous
screaming and iio'htini][ fits at times  is still
in the house ? Does he come as part of the
aunt's trousseau that we shall have to give
permanent house-room to, or has he other
relatives who will charge themselves with
him ? "

It was evident, since Bertie's onslaught
on her cap and spectacles, that the old
lady's feelings towards him had suffered
a slight modification.

Wolfss face grew dark again.

I ought to have told you," he said. " I
intend to adopt Bertie  to treat him as my
own child. He will hold the place of a son
in the house."

Then he laid down Oscar's letter, and cut
short his mother's exclamations by at once
leaving the room.

'so," thought Judith, "this is the
shorter road he has found to secure to
himself and a greater number of persons

a greater amount of happiness than has
been lost to them."

That same night  or, rather, between
two and three o'clock of the following
morning  Judith was aroused by old Bryce
creeping stealthily into her room, and
standing by her bedside.

"What is it?" asked Judith, starting
up from a troubled sleep,  all her sleep
was troubled in those days. " What has
happened ? "

Oh, nothing much ; don't alarm yourself,"
said the old body composedly,
shutting tight the door behind her, although
she had herself ascertained the fact that
every other soul in the house was safe in
the arms of Morpheus. " Only, after they 
you know who I mean, miss  went up to
their rooms to-night, I listened for a time
outside their door, and I thought you
might like to know what I heard."

Yes ? " This interrogatively.

Delphine had returned from London that
afternoon. Judith had dreaded .what was
coming from the moment she had heard

her exclaim in lier loudest soprano as she
entered the hall :

"Oh, my Wolf, I have had such a
glorious visit this time ! London seemed
at its gayest and best. Ah, what a grand,
delicious city it is ! "

It's nothing much I have to tell'*
Bryce went on ; " they spoke in whispers,
I could only catch a word or two here and
there. Once she said  Miss Delphine, I
mean  ' He was furious. I had much ado
to quiet him ; but I managed it after
a fashion.' Do you understand what that
means, Miss Judith ? "

Yes," answered Judith, after a moment
of thought ; "I think I can understand to
whom she referred."

It seemed to her that the " he " and the
him " in this case must, without a doubt,
mean the sailor-like individual whom in
thought she had connected with Delphine's
visits to London.

And then they talked and talked  oh,
for more than an hour, and I listened, and
listened, but could hear nothing, they spoke

so low, till at last Miss Delphine gave her
long, strange laugh, and said : ' Well, one
thing's certain  that business will be over
and done with by the end of the year.'
What can that mean. Miss Judith ? "

What indeed ! Judith's brain felt stunned
for the moment, then ached dully with the
thought of unknown terrors which she
dared not put into words.

Give me time to think, Bryce ; it means
something terrible, I haven't a doubt.
Go away, now ; leave me alone," and she
pressed her hot eye-balls with her cold
hands, vainly trying to shape the indefinable
fears that came thronging upon her into
something definite and tangible.

Bryce made one step towards the door,
retraced it, and came back to the bedside.

Miss Judith," she said, " you did
promise me you would get back that evil
ring of yours from Mr. Wolf, if you could.
I'm sure we shall none of us know what
peace is till it's gone to the bottom of the
blessed stream."

' Oh, go away, Bryce  go away  don't

torment me ; I'm trying to think," moaned
Judith.

Well, Miss Judith, if you won't do it
yourself, you might let me try what I can
do. If you'd give me his diamond ring I'd
take it to him and say you wanted yours
back again," contended the old woman.

Take the diamond, then  it's in that
little drawer of the toilette-table  and do
what you like. Only go away at once, and
leave me to think," insisted Judith.

Bryce victorious departed content.

'VER for certain by the end of the

year ! " The words kept repeating

themselves in Judith's brain

with the iteration of a minute-bell all that

day and the next.

It was a bitter morning. Judith sat in
her own room with her feet on the fender,
shivering, in spite of a huge, cracking
wood-fire.

Outside, a furious east wind beat against
the panes ; the old trees, creaking and
groaning, tossed their bare, brown arms
like so many weird, evil prophetesses to
a hazy, leaden sky. In the lulls of the blast
one could hear the rush and tumble of the
cataract in the wood, swollen by late heavy-falling
rains into a dashing, swirling flood.

It was dreary enough outside ; it was
drearier still within ; and Judith's thoughts
on this particular morning piled up the
dreariness tenfold  a thousandfold.

Over for certain by the end of the
sear ! " There was no getting the dismal
words out of her ears, fight against them as
she would. Why, who could say what
might or might not be over by the end of
the year ? Health might be gone  fortune,
friends, happiness, even life itself. Who
could tell ? Into one, unless they had taken
certain measures to produce certain inevitable
results.

There came at this moment the sound of
a window opening overhead, followed by
a smart rattling fall of something on the
terrace-flags below. Why, surely not !
That could not be Delphine scattering her
sweetmeats as usual to welcome little Bertie
on his return from his morning walk ? Ko
one with a grain of human feeling would
have sent out a fragile little child to face
this cutting, blustering gale. All-apprehensive,
she went to the window, and looked

out. There was little Bertie, creeping, not
bounding, up the gravel-path, closely followed
by Olivettete. He looked white and
nipped, as well he might, and seemed disinclined
to stop to gather up the tempting-looking
bon-bons which lay scattered on the
stones.

Olivettete, however, gathered them together
for the child, popping one now and again
into his mouth. How ridiculous it was of
them to feed the poor child in this way
with sugar ! Sooner or later it would tell
on him. No wonder he looked so white
and puny.

Over for certain by the end of the
year." Once more the words seemed to
repeat themselves, and Judith, looking down
into Bertie's pale, pitiful face, seemed all ina
minute to take in their meaning.

What were those sweetmeats ? Why did
those women force them upon the child
when he was so evidently disinclined for
them ? These and a hundred other
questions suggested themselves in a rapid
succession, resolving themselves one and all

at last into the simple and most practical
one of  What was to be done now ? What
could she do for the best ?

Judith was by nature no plotter, and it
may very well be doubted whether, under
any pressure of circumstances, she could
ever have played the part successfully.
Only one idea suggested itself to meet the
exigency of the moment -to go downstairs
to Wolf, now in his study, say to him,
Bertie is ill ; you must have a doctor at
once."

This she accordingly prepared to do.
On the landing outside she met old Dr.
Williamson on his way to Mrs. Eeece's
room ; she asked him not to leave the
house till she had seen him again, as there
was another patient for him ; then on she
went to Wolfss study, knocked at the door,
and asked if she might come in.

Come in," said Wolf, with a slight
accent of surprise, and Judith went in to
find him, not as usual at his writing-table,
surrounded with account and other books,
but in an easy-chair on one side of the wide

fireplace, while Delphine, with a leopard-skin
thrown gracefully across her knees,
reclined in a low chair on the other.

Why  why, what was this ? Not five
minutes ago this woman had been in her
room over Judith's, throwing sweetmeats
out of the window ! Had she a dual
existence, and with one life mounted perpetual
guard over Wolf, while with the
other she carried out her own evil machinations
?

For one moment Judith faltered. Only
for one moment, however ; the next she
had gone quietly up to Wolf, and said :

I am very sorry to disturb you, but
little Bertie is ill, I am sure, and as Dr.
Williamson is here, I thought you might
like him to see the child."

It was a bold speech to make in the
presence of Bertie's aunt, protectress, and
guardian.

Wolf, who had risen from his chair as she
spoke, stared at her blankly. Delphine's
eyes gave one lurid flash, as of lightning out
of a dark cloud. She had some Christmas-roses

and a few holly-leaves on lier lap ;
she twirled them together into a little
bouquet, and tossed them into the clear,
blazing fire. Then she laughed :

Ah ! how it crackles and sits fire ! "
Then she turned to Judith abruptly : " My
Bertie ill, did you say  my darling, my
treasure ? Ah, why has no one said this
before to me ? Being the bell, my Wolf 
ring the bell, and have the little one in.
Ah, if he should die, if he should die ! Ah,
ring the other bell. Miss Judith, and send
for the doctor at once. How good and
kind you are to every living soul who
crosses your path ! Young men or maidens,
old men or children, it's all one to you, you
open your heart to them all ! "

Judith turned her back on her. How
could Wolf stand there, listening to her,
and not feel the marrow frozen in his
bones ?

Will you rig the bell, or shall I ? " she
asked.

Wolf rang the bell mutely, and an order
was given for Bertie to be brought and

a message to be taken requesting Dr.
Williamson's presence in the study.

"We shall never be thankful enough to
you, Miss Judith, for your kind, watchful
care, shall we, my Wolf?" said Delphine
in her sweet, low tones. But her eyes said :
All right. Miss Judith, one to you this
time, two to me next."

Bertie, in Olivettete's arms, entered the
room simultaneously with the doctor.

The little fellow seemed scared by the
grave faces he saw gathered about him.
He fought the doctor when he tried to take
him in his arms ; he shrank in positive
terror from Wolf's outstretched hand ; but
he smiled, though somewhat tearfully, as
his eyes rested on Judith's face. It ended
with Olivettete whispering something in his
ear, which caused him to stand silent and
submissive in the middle of the room, looking
round him with a somewhat startled air.

The doctor surveyed the child keenly,
remarked that he was not looking as a
child of his years should, put many questions
to Olivettete, which were answered

curtly and to the point, a few to Delpliine,
which excited a touching little history
of her sister's fragile health and early
death, and of the remarkable likeness
that existed in many respects between
Bertie and his dead mother.

The doctor grew inquisitive over the
boy's dietary.

There is no disease that I can
detect," he said, after using his stethoscope
to his heart's content, " but there
are febrile symptoms I do not like,
and which possibly arise from gastric
disturbance."

Judith came forward.

I think," she said, fixing her eyes on
Delphine, not on the doctor, " Bertie has
too many bon-bons."

Bon-bons ! " exclaimed Dr. Williamson ;
they must be stopped at once. They
lie at the bottom of the half of children's
diseases. To some children sweets are
simply poison  slow, subtle, but nevertheless
sure. I must beg of you, madam,"
turning to Delphine, " to put your sweets
VOL. III. 37

in their proper place  behind the fire.
The little fellow will soon get back his
roses then."

"Ah, dear Miss Judith, how kind, how
thou>'htful of you ! you put your finger
on the weak point at once," murmured
Delphine in the same sweet tones as before,
as the doctor rose to take his leave.
But her eyes once more flashed an odd
light, and said : "Two to you this time,
Miss Judith : four to me next."

Judith made no reply, but left the room
after the doctor.

Bertie was saved this time, she felt,
but for how long?

Finding herself watched, detected,
thwarted, would Delphine give up her evil
designs, or would the wicked spirit that
ruled her only suggest more subtle forms
of iniquity ? Judith much feared the
latter. She could not picture to herself
Delphine sitting down, cpiiet and submissive,
under any defeat, small or great.
She racked her brain, vainly endeavouring
to think of extra safeguards for the

defenceless little one. She would rouse
Mrs. Eeece, if possible, to take an interest
in the child. She would entreat Wolf to
give him a new nurse. Yet, somehow,
her heart misgave her as to the success
she Avould be likely to meet with in either
endeavour. Mrs. Eeece was resolute in
her likes and dislikes. She had evidently,
since the little fellow had declined the
honour of her friendship, shut her heart
against him ; and this door, once locked,
was not easy to open, as Judith had
found from experience.

And as for Wolf  ah me ! her heart
somehow went down like quicksilver on
a rainy day as she thought of a certain
strange lioiit which had shone in his
eyes of late as they had rested on
Delphine, and Which seemed, to her fancy,
to tell the bitter truth that he had listened
so long to the voice of the siren, that his
senses were absolutely becoming enthralled
and spell-bound by it.

That night, Bryce once again stood

372

beside Judith's couch and whispered a
brief report.

"I haven't much to tell you, Miss
Judith," she said ; " they spoke low, as
they always do, and she  Miss Delphine,
that is  laughed more than ever I heard
her before. The only words of sense I
could make out of it all was that, next
time, she would take care that you were
out of the house. Yes, Miss Judith, those
where her very words, whatever they may
mean ! "

(jgO the old year spun itself out, and
ljl Delphine's prophecy remained unfulfilled.
So far as anyone at
Plas-y-Coed could see, nothing but itself
came to an end at midnight on the 31st
of December.

Little Bertie, on strictly regulated diet,
blossomed out in renewed health, and
Dr. Williamson would have ceased his
attendance on him had it not been for
Delphine's earnest entreaties that he should
interview " him at least every other day
in the week.

For my darling is so fragile, doctor,"
she pleaded ; " an east wind, even, might
carry him off. Great Heavens ! what I
suffer sometimes when I bend over him

as he sleeps, and see how terribly like
he is to his dear, dead mother. Ah,
promise me, doctor, to keep your eye
on him all through this bitter winter.
What should I do without him, my
darling, my treasure, my all ? "

Of course Dr. Williamson yielded to
her entreaties, and went away thinking
to himself how rare it was to find such
truly maternal devotion, coupled with
attractions so many and varied that most
possessors of them would have deemed
themselves thereby exonerated from the
practice of the minor mundane virtues.

Most people, thrown into close daily
contact with Delphine, were compelled,
sooner or later, to yield to her eerie
fascinations. At first, generally, they
were startled by her fantastic conventionalities
; it might be, even terrified by
odd caprices of voice, look, manner,
which baffled alike experience and reason.
Little by little, however, the witchery of
her dark, changeful beauty, her trained
grace of action, would make itself apprehended,

and people who began their
acquaintance with her fearfully, wonderingly,
would, inch by inch, find their
wonder growing into admiration, their
bewilderment merging into infatuation.

Hers was a veritable beauty de diable.
A subtle, maddening, intoxicating kind
of thing that set men's brains on fire,
dazzled their eyes till they refused perforce
to take stock of aught that alloyed or
blemished such a combination of loveliness,
led them ignis-fatuus like over marsh
and mire in pursuit, left them stranded
and weak at last, incapable alike of
following the path they had chosen or
returning to that they had left. A man
with a clear conscience or with a strong
human love holding his heart, might have
opposed coat-of-mail to her poisoned
arrows, but woe to the poor wight who,
destitute of these, dared risk the fray!
If he came out of it something less than
the remnant of a man, he would only
have his own hardihood to thank for it.

Wolf, preoccupied, conscience-palsied.

brain-weighted, had taken, as he had
mapped out his somewhat troubled course,
no count of these deceptive quicksands
which lay right athwart his path. Other
dangers farther ahead he had noted and
sought to avoid, but these at his very
feet he had, in his far-sightedness, overlooked.
Had anyone, in the early days
of his fatal intimacy with Delphine,
whispered words of warning, they would
have fallen on dulled ears. Strong in
his love for Judith, he would have laughed
to scorn the idea that in any other eyes
than hers he would care to read the
light of love.

Later on, as time and circumstance
put Judith far and farther out of his
reach, he would still have scouted the
notion that any other than she could
ever enter in and fill that great, empty
heart of his. But now, as the desolate
winter days went slowly creeping by,
somehow he began to find that a soft,
vibrating voice saying tenderly, " My Wolf
oh, my Wolf!" had a weird fascination

for him, and that a pair of dark, dangerous,
changeful black e3"es were beginning
to chase from his memory the pure,
clear light of a certain pair of hazel
ones.

Yet, so paradoxical was this man
becoming in his moods, when one day
old Bryce went to him, bringing back
his diamond ring, and asking for Judith's
bloodstone in return, he stared at
her blankly at first, furiously afterwards,
as though she had asked him to pluck
out a right eye or cut off a right hand.

If Miss Judith wants her ring, let
her come to me and ask me for it'' he
thundered ; " only to her asking will I
give it up."

Then a change swept over his face.
He went penitently up to the old woman
and took her by the arm.

Look here, Bryce," he said in a
voice that trembled with the restraint
he put upon it, "you are old, and I am,
I suppose, scarcely yet to be counted
with the middle-aged. For all that I

haven't the least doubt but what I shall
go down into the earth before you. Xow
I charge you solemnly "  here his hand
tightened upon her arm till it gripped
her like a vice  " when I lie in my coffin
you yourself come to my side, see that
this ring is on my linger, and that it
goes into the grave with me."

Then he had released her, gone straight
into his study, and with Delphine's hand
in his, and a Bedecked open before
them, had planned out a deliciously enjoyable
wedding-tour through the south
of Europe.

When the new year dawned, and
that " old, antediluvian. Time," set to
work winding-up, cleaning, regulating,
and starting afresh all his half worn-out
clocks, Judith set herself to face steadily
two events which every minute that ran
out of the aforesaid old clocks brought
nearer to her. One was Wolf's marriage
with Delphine, the other was her father's
return to England and her consequent
departure from the Eeece household.

Both events she found difficult to
realise. Though she said to herself, at
least a hundred times a day, " He will
soon be wholly hers, body and soul,"
she could not bring herself to believe
the words as she spoke them ; she might
as well have talked to herself of the
great day of judgment, of the sun
being turned into darkness, of the
moon into blood  as well could she
bring before her mind in grand, distorted
picturesqueness the one event as
the other.

Then, too, as she read her father's
kindly, loving letters, his lavish promises
of the good things he meant to shower
upon her in the days to come, his
growing pictures of a wealthy, peaceful
home, where care and sorrow would be
barred and bolted out, were equally
difficult of realisation. Everything in the
future seemed to her blurred, misty,
indistinct ; only the dreary, living present
seemed actual and true. In this she felt
her life centred ; with it, as it slipped

from her view and her grasp, she felt
as though her life must depart.

On New Year's Day, a dreary portent
for the young year, there came to hera
troubled, weary letter from Uncle Pierre.
It was dated from Pekin some two months
previously :

My Child," so he wrote 

This will be the last letter I shall
send to you from this place. I am ordered
by my bishop, who is the head of
this mission, to go into retreat, first at
Palermo, afterwards at Versailles. So I
go. Into silence I go, my child, for
my voice as preacher and teacher on
this earth will be heard no more. Daly
superiors tell me, and I bow to what
they say, that of late I have erred in
my teaching, that I have spoken not
with the voice of the Church, but with
the voice of my own heart. Ah me !
that voice seemed so like the voice

of God to me, I was forced to give
utterance to it ! Of late it was so loud,
so supreme to me, I could hear no other.
So I speak and preach no more. But I
pray, my child, I pray' none the less for
all poor suffering souls, for all poor sorrowing
ones, for you, ni} Judith, my
well-beloved child, that soon, face to face
in the Father's kingdom, we may clasp
hands that will never need to be lifted in
prayer again.

Your uncle,

pierre."

Judith crept away into silence and
solitude with her letter to hide her tears.

For the matter of that, however, she
might just as well have stayed where
she was. None would have uttered a
word of remonstrance had she washed
away her eyesight with her crying. There
was no one to seat himself by her side
now and say pitifully : " Child, child, you
must not give way like this ; I cannot 
Cannot bear it ! "

ELPHINE's trousseau seemed to
i|pW drive her a "rood deal of trouble
 about the beiinnmi? of the year.
She made frequent visits to London, returning
from each visit, if possible, more
blithe and radiant than before ; also, if
the truth be spoken, a trifle more exacting
of attention from Wolf, a shade
more erratic and fantastic in her manner
of conducting herself towards the other
members of the household. Wolf, so she
decreed, was to escort her to the station at
Pen Welly, she driving her fiery little
ponies ; Wolf was to meet her when she
came back ; Wolf was to desert the family
dinner-table and dine alone with her on
the evenincof her return ; Wolf was to sit

with her in the drawing-room afterwards,
or in the rooms she had specially dedicated
to the shrine of nicotine, whence in addition
to the highly perfumed fragrance
of her cigarettes would issue the wildest
strains of Spanish canzonets or Italian
bravura, or occasionally the most weird
and mournful of Swiss or German lullaby.
At one time one might fancy a whole
troupe of half-mad priraa-donnas held
wild carnival within; at another that some
solitary sea-maiden was mourning, to the
time and tune of the waves, her lover's
death, or else soothing him to slumber
with a siren's lullaby.

Mrs. Eeece, imprisoned in ]per own
room, naturally saw and heard but little
of all this. She had taken into her head
the comfortable belief that sooner or later
Delphine would throw Wolf over, and
when elderly ladies of resolute temper
get sturdy notions unto their heads they
are somewhat difficult to uproot.

'' My dear," she would say to Judith
on every occasion of Delphine's visits to

London, " do you think she'll come back
tills time ? Has she taken anything extra
with lier ? Does the maid seem to be
packing up ? "

As for Judith, she felt herself daily
shrinking more and more from the society
of both Wolf and Delphine. How it
would all end not she nor any other
living soul could by any possibility have
averred. As before, she could not see
one hand's breadth in front of her ; she
only felt that clouds  veritable thunder-clouds
 were encompassing them all, and
that sooner or later they must burst.
Her former fatigue of heart had left her
now ; she no longer mourned even to
herself, "We are so tired, my heart and
I ; " she felt herself ever on the alert,
as though her very life were merged in
her senses  in those at least of seeing
and hearing, for her powers of speech
just then appeared to have well-nigh
deserted her.

So the winter hours went limping past,
Laggard, wry-faced, joyless things, everyone

of them ; each, with a terribly strong
family likeness to the other ; each, if
possible, a little more of a laggard than
the last. How they all got through that
winter Judith never knew. Hopelessly,
interminably, it dragged its slow length
along, fighting, so it seemed to her,
harder and harder for its life, as its
days drew towards their end, till at
length, in a terrific struggle and outburst
of rain, hail, sleet, east wind, and
ice, it died hard in the very bosom of
spring.

Spring, regnant once more, greening
every lane, tree, hedge, field, ditch,
brought no promise of hope this year
to Judith's heart. It brought but a
scanty store also for poor Mrs. Eeece,
whose rheumatism showed no signs of
succumbing to old Dr. Williamson's lotions
or unremitting attention. Her health
began to suffer from her lack of bodily
exercise ; with her health, her spirits
sank by a degree or two ; she became
less confident of Delphine's elopement
VOL. III. 38

with some unheard-of stranger ; she grew
fretful and irritable at the mention of
the word India, for the double reason
that it recalled to her the fact that Oscar
would soon be departing thither, and
that Colonel Wynne would soon be returning
thence and claiming his daughter.

Also, about this time, another circumstance
added somewhat to her melancholy ;
poor old Falstaff, her faithful friend and
companion for so many years, overcome
by age and infirmities, died at her very
feet, his head resting on her footstool.

The iU-mannered brute ! " cried Delphine,
when she heard of this, clasping
her hands on top of her head and sinking
languidly into a rocking-chair ; " he
should have gone away into a corner to
die. No one should have the effrontery
to die in public. No living soul shall
see me in my death-struggles. I'll answer
for that ! Fancy some half-dozen people
staring down on one, watching one's eyes
getting glassy, and one's limbs rigid ! Xo ;
when I die you shall see me as I am today

 you shall look for me tomorrow ! "
and from this expression of sentiment she
glided, according to her wont, into the
barcarolle from Masaniello, that, in its
turn, giving place to snatches of airs
from Don Giovanni, an opera for which
she evinced a most marked affection.

Possibly about the best thing the
dreary new year had to bring to the
Eeece family, was continued good tidings
of and from Oscar. His letters were
little by little going back to their
old tone of careless good-nature, and
easy bad grammar. Iow that he had
forced himself to learn the irremediableness
of his sorrow, he was evidently
setting himself to face and fight it manfully.
Life is all paradoxes ; the irreparable
is most easily repaired, the unconquerable
(even death itself) conquered.

Towards the end of winter he had
brought himself to talk almost hopefully
of his Indian appointment ; towards the
end of spring he was growing absolutely
impatient for the time for sailing. He

382



UNIVERSITY OP M U*<<5

wrote long (for him, that is) loving letters
to his mother, to Wolf, to Judith, and
even went so far as to pen a few fragmentary
missives to Delphine, whom he
was evidently trying to bring himself to
look upon as a future member of the
family.

Delphine made very merry over these
slight epistles in the : solitude of her own
room; the manifest effort with which they
were written amused her, the little final
note of sadness, with which some of them
concluded, stirred her contempt.

Here's Narcissus assail coins: a Niobe,"
she said, making the latest received into
a pellet, and throwing it at Olivettete's
head.

But Olivettete, occupied in reading a
letter of her own, accorded her tester buta
scanty attention.

Oh, that's from your Narcissus, I
suppose ? " Delphine went on, determined
to have an audience. " Oh, ah  h, what
a much pleasant world this would be
if Narcissuses were extinct."

Including your own, I suppose ? " retorted
Olivettete derisively.

My dear, I have no Narcissus, I have
no patience with the tribe  a Polyphemus,
if you like, ils you had but seen him
this evening, as I sang to him, and he
stood just under the lamp  ah, so grey,
and wrinkled, and ugly, yet so grand!
No, no, you may keep your Narcissus,
and enjoy him if you will, my dear ;
give me a Cyclops  a Cyclops I can
chain, and drive half mad, and let go
and beckon back again. Ah, that's a sort
of thing worth doing," and a low, long
laugh trilled forth once more.

Olivettete folded her letter and put
it by.

There's something here you'll like to
hear," she said a little sullenly, for
Delphine's manner of speaking of her
lover invariably ruffled her temper.

Ah, Steve, I suppose, has added another
acre to his cottage ! " queried Delphine
indifferently.

No such thing, Steve has sold his

cottage, and is off to Mexico. He has
bought a farm out there for next to
nothing. But that wasn't what I thought
would interest you, it was something about
Phil Munday."

"About Phil Munday! What?" and
Delphine suddenly awakened to an unmistakable
interest in Olivettete's letter.

He says that Phil is wanted by the
police at Montreal. Before he came over
to England it seems he was for about
three months working as letter-carrier in
the town, a number of letters containing
money were missed, and "

Ah, bravo, hravissimo I I knew something
would turn up, and it has."

And Delphine, starting from her chair,
jumping at least two feet from the ground,
alighting on the tips of her toes as only
a practised dancer can. Then she went
close to her sister, and breathlessly put a
whole string of questions.

When, where, how had this thing
happened? How did Steve know of it?
Could it certainly be brought home to

Phil Munday? When would Steve write
again ? "

Olivettete shook her head in reply to
each one. Steve had written on the eve
of starting for Mexico ; when he would
write again she did not know. All he
said was lie had heard it rumoured that
the police were after Phil Munday for
robbing the post-bags.

Delphine grew grave, speaking in jerky
whispers.

'you must find out the truth for me.
If I can but handcuff him now  or
threaten to do so, better still  it will
keep him quiet. But I must know more.
I mustn't try for a grand throw, and
spoil my game. No, I will not say one
word till I am sure. I must just keep
him quiet with promises. I have told
him my Wolf and I quarrel so dreadfully,
if I made the attempt now I should
be at once detected, and I have told him
St. Judith must be out of the house before
I can do anything "

"Yes," interrupted Olivettete with an air

of decision ; " St. Judith must be out
of the house before you do anything, or
she'll spoil your game, not a doubt. Vlien
does she go ? "

"The father is expected some time in
June, not before. Well, this is February.
1 have four months to keep him quiet ;
it will be hard work, and will take a lot
of spare cash, for he gets more ravenous
every time I see him. Ah well, my Wolf
is generous. No matter what I ask I
always have."

It seems to me, if jou go on at this rate,
you'll ruin your Wolf, and have nothing
left worth playing for. You mustn't forget
between you the two thousand pounds
you are to pay me."

' My dear, you are not likely to let
me forget. But you must earn it, remember.
It strikes me it'll take close
upon another two thousand to keep Phil
Munday quiet for four months."

Couldn't the girl some way be got
out of the house sooner ? "

Delphine shook her head.

If she went out of the house tomorrow,
what could I do till I have my
blow ready? Between ourselves, I'm not
sorry the sweetmeat business was a failure.
I'm not so sure but what at the very
last the Beast might have turned
rusty, and refused the bribe I meant to
offer. He might have been obstinate,
and insisted on my marrying him, after
all, and  and getting rid of Wolf. But'
now, if this is only true, I have the
whip-hand of him, and he shall know it.
Now find out for me, as quickly as possible,
all you can. By June  by midsummer,
say  I shall be ready ; the girl
will be gone, the imp disposed of. Ah,
how glorious ! "

She spoke off abruptly for a moment.

"Hark! Did you hear anything  anyone
move outside the door ? "

For a few minutes they both listened
intently, then their talk fell into whispers.

Bryce, standing by Judith's bedside,
aroused her between one and two o'clock
that same night.

I am sure they are sisters, those two,"
lie said, nodding her old head wisely ;
and I'm sure they've been on the stage,
both of them."

That does not interest me," said Judith
coldly. " I have no wish to know who
or what they are. Is there anything else
you have to tell me ? "

They've made up their minds to do
something  what, I don't know, but they
won't attempt it till you are out of the
house. They seem more afraid of you than
of any mortal souL"

Yes ? Was that all you heard,
Bryce ? "

All," sighed Bryce ; " they talked so
low, and the walls that side are so thick.
On the other they are nothing but lath
and plaster, and one might hear everything.
Ah, if I dared go through the
tapestry-room one night and go along the
outer passage "

"What's that?" asked Judith sharply.
Why, Brce, you know as well as I do
that the tapestry-room is bricked up."

Bryce laughed.

On this side, Miss Judith. They
didn't know not one of the men who
did the work here, one half that I could
have told them. The tapestry-room has
three entrances. There's a door inside
one of the cupboards in my room (the
housekeeper's room, I mean, miss), which
opens on to a flight of stairs that leads
right up to a door at the back of the
tapestry bed. No one knew of that, Miss
Judith, and I wasn't going to tell them.
Why should I ? It may be, when the
right master comes into the house, he
won't choose to have his grandfather's
room bricked up in that fashion as though
it were a tomb."

Go on, Bryce. That is one entrance
to the room ; that makes two we know
of. Now where is the third, and where
does it lead?"

The third. Miss Judith, is inside a
cupboard that is on one side of the fireplace
in the tapestry-room ; it opens on
a narrow passage which runs just outside

Miss Help (line's room. Her wall that side
is thin  very thin, one could hear a pin
fall on the floor."

Ah-h ! Does any one in the house
know of these entrances to the tapestry-room
but yourself ? "

"Not a soul, Miss Judith. All the
servants are new, you see, and I'm not
one to be gossiping to them," in a tone
of ineffable disdain. " Davies may have
known of them at one time, but they
have been out of use so long, I'm sure
he has forgotten them. That passage outside
Miss Delphine's room led at one
time out through a window on to the
leads where Master Bernard kept all his
carrier-pigeons. When he went away
once the squire had them cleared out
and the way on to the leads stopped ;
the pigeons were for ever tumbling down
the chimneys and pecking at the mortar,
squire wouldn't be bothered with them.
Now, if I dared go through the room and
get into that passage "

No, no, no, Bryce," exclaimed Judith

vehemently; "not to be thought of for a
moment. She might hear you if the wallis
so thin, and you would spoil everything.
Now promise me  promise me  "
this most earnestly, " that sou won't on
any account attempt such a thing."

A sudden idea had come to her, an
idea which seemed to her like the opening
of a door of hope by an angel hand.
It grew and matured in her brain as
the weeks and months in slow procession
went by.

|ljl||EVEE, surely, since the days when
JHIj Vivian with " woven paces and
With waving hands ' put to sleep
the " gentle wizard " in the hollow oak,
was man so fooled, spell-bound, and
enthralled by woman as was Wolf Eeece
by Delphine Pierpoint.

In her presence, or within sound of
her voice, he seemed as inert, as " lost to
life, and use, and name, and fame," as
ever did the sleeping Merlin. Not at a
bound was this condition of things attained,
but by successive stages  somewhat
short and rapid ones it must be
owned, but nevertheless easily apprehensible.
In the first days of his acquaintance
with Delphi he had shrunk from her

with a loathing and horror natural to a
man brought suddenly face to face with
a bold, unscrupulous woman who holds
the secret of his life in her hands. Her
arts, and blandishments, and beauty, seen
in this light had repelled rather than
fascinated him. Later on, as he knew
her better, and sounded, as he thought,
the shallowness of her nature, a feeling
of disdain took the place of the shrinking
and loathing he had previously felt ; he
grew to look upon her much as one
might look upon a playful, petulant kitten,
whom circumstance and chance, not
nature, had made poisonous and dangerous.
From disdain to tolerance was but a
step, and he took it. From toleration of
her arts and caprices he learnt submission
to them. Thence the road was easy
and downhill into the realms of bewilderment
and fascination itself, until at length
with truth it might have been said  no
Parthenope, ancient or modern, ever held
her enchanted one more securely than
Delphine held her Wolf.

Yet the man at times had lucid intervals
short periods of returned consciousness
and manhood  times when he loathed less
the woman who had ensnared him than
himself, the weak, fooled prisoner, when
he chafed at the chains which bound
him, tried his strength against them,
made some wild, desperate struggle for
freedom, and then went back sullenly to
bondage once more.

These brief periods of vigour and returned
reason generally occurred during
one or other of Delphine's absences in
London, when her wild, thrilling voice no
longer woke up the echoes of the old
house, and the apprehension of her soft,
springing footfall ceased to make itself
felt at every turn of the staircase, behind
every half-opened door. If the line
of demarcation he had chosen to set up
between Judith and himself had not by
this time crown to the strength and consistency
of iron, it is possible Delphine's
dominion would have been rudely shaken
if not overthrown. As it was, however,

the very reverence he had for Judith,
her truth and purity  he said to himself
it was reverence, nothing more  kept
him apart from her and helped him to
lose his own soul a little faster.

Better that, so he said to himself, than
taint hers by so much as a finger-print ;
better his own conscience burdened, scorching,
seared beyond remedy, than hers
overshadowed by so much as a passing
cloud.

Sometimes  and this always when Delphine
was away  a sudden terror would
seize him lest, after all, some of the infection
which, to his fancy, filled every nook
and corner of the old place, might light
upon Judith and poison her life springs.

Once this feeling came upon him with
such overwhelming force that he could
not withstand it ; it seemed as though
his good angel, whom he had shocked,
grieved, wounded, warned off, and was
now about to put to flight for ever, was
whispering a farewell plea to him for
the young girl who had been sent into
VOL. m. 39

this house to be taken care of and made
happy. " Send her away," it seemed to
say, " before she grows into such an one
as you are  as that other is." Xot once,
but aiain and again the voice made itself
heard ; and at last, one morning, he laid
down his pen, closed his bankers-book,
and went up and down the house looking
for Judith.

It was nearly the middle of June now.
Summer, with its glories, was draping
the land and painting the skies ; the
gardens of the old Grange, a little recovered
from their late uprooting and
replanting, were shining out in summer
colours, yielding their souls in summer
fragrance, under a cloudless mid-day sun.
Coming straight from his one-windowed
study, with its odour of musty volumes,
and from staring at his rows of figures.
Wolf felt owl-like, half blinded ; he stood
for a few minutes on the terrace, shading
his eyes with his hand, wondering whether
he would find Judith in any of her favourite
shady nooks among the laurels, or whether

she had wandered out, book in hand, into
the woods beyond.

As he stood thus, a voice, soft, yet clear
and trenchant, fell upon his ear. " I have
not heard from him by the last mail, Bryce ;
I cannot say when he is coming," were the
words he heard.

It was undoubtedly Judith speaking ;
she must be in the housekeeper's room,
he thought ; and a feeling something akin
to reproach made itself felt that this
young lady should be so destitute of
companionship as to have to seek it
among the servants of his household.

If he had only been a little more awake
to what went on under his very eyelids,
he might have known that Judith never
under any circumstances found her way
into Brce's sanctum sanatorium except
during Delphine's absences in London. He
went straight into the small, dark room. Ashe
entered, Bryce sharply shut an open
cupboard-door near which she was standing,
locked it, and put the key into her
pocket. It was an odd, unaccountable

3[) 2

thing to do ; but, then, so many things
that this old body did were odd and unaccountable.


He did not heed her; he had something
to say to Judith at that moment which
absorbed all his thoughts. It did not
matter that Bryce should be in the room
to hear it. Of the two he rather ]preferred
that a third person should be
present, it would prevent the striking ot
]painful chords, the introduction of matter
essentially beside the point.

Miss Wynne," he said, going up to
Judith, and making no pretence of prelude
to what he had to say, " it has
occurred to me that, since your father's
return appears likely to be somewhat
delayed, a pleasant house than ours
might be found for you to slay in."

It came upon her like a thunderbolt.
She started, turning; to a deathly
pallor.

Are you saying to me, ' Go ' ? " she
asked in a voice that trembled,, vibrated,
and died away in a mulled whisper.

Wolf went on as though he had not
heard her.

I have been thinking well over the
matter, and it seems to me, that if it suit
you. Dr. Martin's house at Richmond
would be a bright and happy home for
you  at any rate, till you hear from
your father and learn what his wishes
are."

Judith only stood still, staring at him
blankly, and repeating in the same unnatural
tone as before :

Are you saying to me ' Go ' ? "

It had occurred to her that necessity
might arise for her departure ; that of
her own free will she might leave the
house ; but not that he would come to
her in this dry, apathetic manner and bid
lier depart.

He gathered together his strength and
essayed to answer her.

*' Yes, I say ' Go,' because I feel, I see,
I know that it will be better for you todo
so ? How shall I explain ? Why do
you wish me to explain? Have you not

eyesight and understanding of your
own ? "

For the life of him he could not keep
his heart from making itself heard in his
voice, just a note or two.

Judith's eyes drooped, but her lips
refused to give out a sound. She looked
fragile, slender, like some bending white
lily, as she stood there silent by his side.
She still wore her deep mourning for
Aunt Maggie. It added possibly a shade
of pallor to her always 'pale face.

He went on with increasing earnestness.


I feel sure they would do their best
to make you happy at The Eetreat.
Theoo is a good girl ; you seemed to get
on well together. If you will consent, I
will write to Dr. Martin to-day, and
arrange for your going there in a day
or two ? "

Still no reply from Judith.

He grew impatient, imperious, as his
wont was when thwarted. Why did she
set herself in this way to make a long

matter of what need be such a short
one, to stir up feelings which he felt
lay only too dangerously near the surface ?

Of course," he went on, trying to
make his voice as hard and inflexible as
voice could be, " I cannot turn you out
of the house if you wish to stay on ;
but I tell you frankly that it will be an
immense relief to me if you will go."

"I will go." It was slowly, resolutely
said, but in such low tones as to be scarcely
audible.

Thank you. I felt sure that, if you
thought over it, you would see the advisability
of your leaving us. To-day is
Tuesday, will it suit you for me to take
you up on Thursday to the Martins ? I
shall being going up to say my goodbye
to Oscar in a day or two, as you
know."

Thank you, I will travel alone," in
the same slow, resolute tone as before.

Wolf started. He was scarcely prepared
for this. Yet, after all, perhaps it
would be better so. Away from Delphine,

alone with Judith for hours ! The temptation
. would be hideously great. Yes,
undoubtedly it would be a better arrangement.


Very well," he said coldly, " since
you prefer it. What day may I fix for
your going ? They will naturally wish to
know."

Judith thought awhile.

Thursday, next week, will suit me,"
she answered, and only a faint quiver of
her down-drooped eyelid showed that she
had a vestige of feeling on the matter
at all.

Very well, then ; Thursday, next week,
let it be," said "Wolf, and fearful of breaking
the thin ice on which he knew he
stood, he turned abruptly, and left the
room.

iiwpES. EEECE became by turns indignant,

expostulatory, vociferous,
and denunciatory, when
she heard of Judith's projected departure
from Plas-y-Coed.

She catechised Judith ruthlessly on the
matter.

Why, why, why, my dear, what does
it all mean ? What can be sending you
away from us just now, just at the very
end of your visit ? Has Wolf been
particularly discourteous to you ? I know
he has grown morose, almost beyond
bearing, of late, but I don't really think
he means anything, certainly does not
intend any personal rudeness, and I'm
sure, if I spoke to him on the matter,

he would at once apolo,i*-ise. He's not a
particularly good hand at apologising,
but still, I feel sure he would do it if I
asked him."

Oh, no, no," interrupted Judith
hastily. " There is nothing whatever for
him to apologise to me for, I assure
you."

Then, my dear, why are you going
away from us ? You surely are not running
away from that fast young woman,
who has so marvellously succeeded in
blinding and fascinating my son? Dear
me ! dear me ! To think that both my
sons should have made such a mess of
their love-affairs ! Now, honestly, my
dear, is it on account of this Miss Delphine
that you are leaving the house ? "

Judith felt that a portion of the truth
might possibly succeed better than anything
else in silencing the old lady's
interrogatories and setting her mind at
rest.

"It is on account of Miss Pierpoint
that I am going," she answered quietly.

Mrs. Eeece's exclamations then took
another turn.

"Dear me, dear me, Judith, you surprise
me ! I took you to be a girl of
another sort altogether. I thought your
quietness meant strength, resolution, and
now I find that after all it means nothing
more than any other girl's at nineteen 
no, twenty  you are just twenty now,
are you not ? To think that you should
allow a woman of that sort to disturb
your peace of mind, and turn you out
of the house ! My dear, what would
you do if you had to face one half the
troubles I have had to go through ?
Would you throw up your hands and
run away from them, leaving those behind
to do the best they could ? "

Judith struggled painfully to keep her
composure.

Dear, dear Mrs. Eeece, I feel leaving
you  oh, I cannot tell you how deeply,"
she contrived to say ; " you have been
goodness and kindness itself to me."

"Then why go, Judith?" asked Mrs.

Eeece testily. " No one is driving you
out of the house. I know the place
must seem dreadfully dull and stupid to
a girl at your age ; but I don't believe
you will find Eichmond a bit better
place to live in. From what Theoo tells
me, it is horribly suburban, split into
cliques and sets, not one of whom will
have anything to do with the other.
There is the high-church set, and the
low-church set, and the middle-church
set, and the Catholic set, and a whole
army of dissenters, whom no one meets
anywhere, but who, nevertheless, do
exist ! "

Oh, how can cliques and sets matter
to me ? You know I shall go nowhere,
and see no one, till my father returns."

"Then, my dear, for all I can see to
the contrary, you may just as well stay
where you are." And then, in another
key, she repeated the same song ; dwelt
pitifully on her increasing age and infirmities
; on the pleasure Judith's society
had been to her ; on her loneliness and

desolation in the days to come, with nota
soul to speak a kindly, sympathetic
word to her. " Here I shall be, my
dear," she concluded pathetically, " all
alone  for Phoebe doesn't count for much
in my own room, from morning till
night. Wolf, somewhere, I suppose, playing
at love  for it isn't the real thing 
with that fast young woman. Oscar away
in India, and you  ah, you !  who might
have stayed with me and made my life
pleasant to me, miles and miles away,
and only an occasional slip of paper to
tell mc you are in the land of the living
at all!"

All this, and a great deal more of remonstrance
and reproach Judith had to
endure, not once, but a hundred times
over, before the day for her departure
arrived.

Delphine, returning from what she intended
to be her last journey to London
before her marriage, heard with not a
little surprise of Judith's plans.

"Ah, the fates fight for me!" she cried,

clapping her tightly-gloved hands together,
and pirouetting for Olivettete's benefit round
the room.

"Let the fates be! What about Phil
Munday ? " queried Olivettete, always benton
the practical and matter-of-fact.

"Ah, the wretch! the toad! the awkward
crab ! the sour cabbage ! Yes, I
quieted him. Promised ! Ah, what didn't
I promise him ? And all the while I
had your letter from Steve in ray pocket.
Oh, if I had shown it him, it would have
made him feel for a knife to stab me to
the heart ! ''

"Why didn't you tell him what you
knew ? Threaten him with the police
and be done with him."

Ah, my dear, things are not finally
settled yet ; it would set him thinking and
planning to thwart me once more. No,
I wait till I have played my game and
won ; I wait till I have got rid of the little
imp and married my Polyphemus, before I
strike my final blow. See, tidings are settling
themselves now. I give their but a



touch and on they go  smoothly, gloriously,
like a sleigh down a snow-hill. Next week
will be a week of events, my sister. On
Monday, my Wolf will go to London, meet
Narcissus, and go hand-in-hand with him
to Marseilles, where they will make their
adieux. On Thursday, departs St. Judith !
May blessings follow her every step of the
way she treads ! On Friday  ah, we will passover
that day, it will be the day we strike
our blow. My Wolf out of the way, the
Saint gone, what day could happen better ?
On Saturday, back comes my Wolf by the
first train ; he will get here by seven in
the morning, travelling all night. I tell
him wdiat has happened ; we mourn together
; we search together for the little
imp. By-and-by they bring in his body ;
we mourn again together ; we go to the
funeral together; and then the day after
we go up to London together. We go to
a registrar-office and get married  ah, so
quietly ! (after such a calamity we must do
things quietly, you know) ; and then we
start for Paris  dear, darlings wicked Paris !

And from Paris I write to the wretch and
tull him I have done his bidding! " Here her
long low laugh echoed through the room.
*' I wish him health and happiness to the
end of his days. I tell him I know all
about the post-bag robberies, and I will
set the police on him the very minute he
grows troublesome ; but that if he keeps
quiet, and only if he keeps quiet, there will
be a hundred pounds every three months
for him to the end of his life, not a sou
more, not a sou less. Ah ! I am  oh, so
tired. I can't say another word!" and
thus ending her long speech, Delphine
threw herself on the bed and prepared to
settle to sleep for the night.

But Olivettete had one word more to say.

Supposing Phil Munday gets suspicious
and comes down again to see how things
are going on ! " she whispered.

Supposing ! Even ! He  rush  sh ! "
cried Delphine, throwing out her arms at
her as though to scare her away. " What
should make the wretch suspicious? I was
sweet as honey with him all day yesterday,"

But Olivettete was not to be so easily
deterred from her croaking. She went
one step nearer the bed.

And supposing," she whispered, " ' my
Wolf,' as you call him, does not see fit to
go to London and get married, but chooses
to set up a hue and cry after the child ! "

He set up a hue and cry, with me at
his elbow to swear to him how it all
happened, to soothe him, to charm him,
implore  threaten him, if need be ! Fiddle-sticks,
my dear ! Go tell that story to
the marines, not to your sister ! *'

And with this expression of incredulity,
Delphine sank back on her bed once more,
and in another minute was sleeping soundly,
as though her pillow had been studied with
benedictions, not feathers.

cije-

VOL. m. 40

pOLF set off for London to say his
jj|M good-byes to Oscar on the Monday
before Judith was to leave
Plas-y-Coed. The ship in which Oscar had
taken passage was to set sail on the
succeeding Wednesday from Marseilles.
Thus far on his journey Wolf had decided
to accompany his brother ; he had much
to say to him, many farewell counsels to
give, many matters of importance to impress
upon his mind, notably among them
the fact that from henceforth his future
must rest entirely in his own hands, for
neither yearly allowance nor portion, great
or small, was he to expect from the master
of Plas-y-Coed.

These and equally weighty matters no

doubt filled every corner of Wolfss brain,
as he breakfasted with Delphine and Judith
on the morning of his departure, for he
was singularly  even for him singularly
silent and abstracted throughout the
repast.

"From Dr. Martin," he said, handing
to Judith a letter.

Thank you," was all Judith's reply,
and she scanned quickly the good doctor's
warm, kindly words of welcome to his
home, and folded and returned the letter
to Wolf with another brief " thank you."
These were the only words that passed
between them during the short, dreary
meal.

Delphine hovered over Wolf incessantly,
till the time came for bringing round her
ponies, like any gaoler over some notable
captive, who, he feared, might escape him
before the day for execution came round.
She waited on him throughout breakfast ;
brought him his letters ; hung about him
as he opened and read them ; followed
him into his study, and sang her softest

402

and sweetest to him as he finished sorting
and arranging his correspondence and business
papers there ; followed him out again
into the garden, and stood side by side
with him in the hunting sunlight, talking
blithely with arch, frequent upward glances
into his absent, weary eyes ; went with
him even into his mother's room to say
good-bye before he started ; had her own
hat and dust-cloak brought to her there*
and equipped herself in front of Mrs.
Eeece's mirror for driving him to the
station. Mrs. Eeece meanwhile recited
folios of messages to be delivered to Oscar,
her love, her disappointment at not seeing
him again before he sailed, her earnest
prayers for his happiness in the future.

Judith was seated, winding Mrs. Eeece's
knitting-cotton, when the two entered.
She rose immediately to leave the room.
Wolf intercepted her at the door.

I will say good-bye to you now," he
said, a little formally, and with a manifest
extort. " I am off almost immediately."

"Good-bye," answered Judith, in a tone

that seemed the echo of his own. Then
their fingers for one second touched, their
eyes meantime looking away into the
farther corners of the room, and she was
gone.

So they parted.

Ten minutes after, Wolf, with Delphine
by his side, drove away. Delphine in an
altogether ecstatic frame of mind whipping
up her fiery little ponies till they went
along at an almost incredible speed.

Ah, I would fly through air with you,
my Wolf, as Francesca fled with her Paolo,
sooner than say farewell," she whispered,
as they sped along the rocky road, with
mountain, wood, and fields fleeting past
them in wind-like haste.

A silence fell on the house that day 
a silence not so much as flawed by Delphine's
return in the afternoon.

May I live upstairs with you now,
till I go ? " Judith begged of Mrs. Eeece.
The old lady gave her permission to do
so, though, truth to tell, a somewhat
ungracious one, for she could scarcely

bring herself to regard the young girl's
departure from the house in any light
save that of a positive personal injury.

So the days went round, till Thursday,
the days of more farewells, arrived ; Judith
keeping so strictly to the upper floor of the
house and Mrs. Eeece's apartments, that
not once during these days did she and
Delphine set eyes upon each other  a
circumstance for which she scarcely knew
how to be adequately grateful. It is
possible that Delphine in a measure reciprocated
her feelings, for, with a brain,
webbed and intricate as that of the great
Machiavelli himself, she no doubt rejoiced
in a freedom from observation which enabled
her to put and keep her thoughts
in steady train.

On Thursday morning, however, the
two met in the hall.

Judith, having said her final good-ln'e
to Mrs. Eeece, was standing there in travelling
cloak and hat, with all her boxes and
belongings about her. Delphine came
down the stairs brilliant in the most dainty

of morning costumes, with eyes dancing,
smiles gleaming.

"Ah, let me drive you, Miss Judith,"
she said winningly, " as I drove my Wolf
the other day. We made the journey in
fifteen minutes less than we ever did before."

Thank you, no. Davies will drive me,"
answered Judith in unmistakably arctic
tones.

Is there then nothing  nothing I can
do for you, my friend ? " this with justa
pretty shade of mournfulness thrown into
her voice and eyes.

Judith turned and looked at her steadily.

Yes, you can do one thing for me,"
she said ; " you can let me go upstairs
and kiss little Bertie before I go."

Delphine started. She was not prepared
for such a request as this ; yet she speedily
recovered her self-control.

The little Bertie ? Ah yes, my friend,
go by all means, you were always kind and
good to him. You will find him in my
dressing-room at play ; you know the way
to it."

But she took care, however, to follow
closely upon Judith's heels.

Bertie was seated on the floor playing
with his nine-pins, a wooden ball was in his
hand, wherewith to knock them down so
soon as they should be set up in rank
and file. He was, as usual, richly and
daintily dressed. A light Indian-silk tunic
set off to advantage the delicate shades
of his transparent complexion and the
bright gold of his long curls ; deep falling
Spanish lace shadowed his thin white arms
and hid the hollows about his slender
throat. He looked up as the door
opened, an angry flush swept over his
face as his eyes rested for one moment
on Delphine, then, lifting his tiny
hand with deliberate aim, he flung
the wooden ball straight at her
head.

Ah, the Httle fury ! " cried Delphine,
dodging away from the ball, but she
laughed pleasantly all the time, as though
the child's display of temper amused rather
than angered her.

Judith went up to the little fellow, and
knelt on the floor by his side.

Bertie dear," she said softly, " lookup
at me. Will you give me a kiss and
say good-bye to me ? 1 am going away."

The child's reply was to fling his arms
tightly round her neck, and press his little
lips vigorously to her cheek.

Do you love me, Bertie ? " whispered
Judith right into the child's ear now.

'The answer this time was an embrace
so vehement, that her hat was knocked
off her head, and fell to the ground.

Delphine picked it up.

Naughty boy  naughty boy ! " she
cried ; " you will crumple all Miss Judith's
beautiful frills and laces ; " and she endeavoured
to disengage the still clinging
boy.

Judith, with difficulty, and a huge pain
at her heart, set herself free from the child,
replaced her hat and veil, and left the
room.

Delphine went with her to the top of
the stairs.

"Adieu, my friend," she said sorrowfully
; " we shall miss you  oh, so much.
My Wolf and I will so often talk of you as
we sit together outside on the terrace in
the long summer evenings. Ah, my Wolf
esteems you so much  so very, very much ;
I have seen it many, many times in his
eyes as they have followed you about the
room  here, there, everywhere. Going ?
yes. I had so much to say to you, but
I will tell my Wolf to put it all in this
letter when he writes. Adieu again, my
friend ; " here she extended both her small
white hands for a farewell clasp, then
recoiled a step, exclaiming : " Why, my
friend, surely you are not going away
without shaking hands with me!"

Judith paused a moment a few steps
below her on the stairs.

"No," she answered, looking steadily
up into the brilliant, evil face, " I cannot
bring myself to touch your hand," and
without another word ~ she went slowly
down the stairs into the hall.

Delphine, giving one long, low laugh,

which seemed to echo through the house
like the paaii of a triumphant fiend, went
back to her room.

In the hall Judith found Mr. Maurice,
the land-steward, awaiting her.

Mr. Eeece said he wished me to 20
with you to the station, and see you into
your train," he explained, accounting for
his unexpected appearance.

Bryce came forward with a huge
bouquet of roses as a farewell offering.
The old body said little, but she hung
her head and looked troubled.

One or two of the maids who had grown
to be fond of Judith shed a tear or two ;
the gardener and gardener's boy, to whom
she had lent books, stood at a little
distance, touching their hats.

Then crack went the coachman's whip,
the old greys  not so fat as they were
a year ago  set off at a fair pace, and
Judith was whirled away out of sight
down the laurel-edged drive.

A yet deeper silence seemed to fall
upon the house that day.

Bryce went into lier dark little housekeeping
room, and gave short answers
to everyone who ventured to approach
her. Mrs. Eeece declined her luncheon
and dinner, and desired Phoebe, her maid,
not to speak to her unless she was spoken
to. Delphine also retired into her own
quarters, ordering the butler to send,
at the regular hours, her meals upstairs,
inclusive of dry sherry and cigarettes.
Little Bertie was seen going out for and
returning with Corvette from his usual
morning's walk, and afterwards, as usual,
disappeared for the rest of the day. As
for Olivettete, she had suddenly fallen into
a fit of most profound sullenness, from
which neither Delphine's raillery nor her
petulance sufficed to arouse her.

Not till the whole household had retired
to rest for the night, did she find for
herself a voice and words. Even then the
voice was faint and the words were few.
She looked all round lier in every corner,
as though she feared some lurking listener,
and went up to her sister, who' half reclined,

half lay, in loose muslin peignoir
on the bed, laid her hand upon her
shoulder, and whispered into her ear :

Give it up, Delphine ; give it up. Ita
dangerous game, and will bring you
to no good."

Delphine raised herself a little higher on
her elbow, stared blankly at her sister
for a moment, and then burst into a reckless
laugh.

What, now, at the very last moment,
give it up, when everything has fitted itself
into my hand and the game is all my own ?
Thank you, no, my sister ! If you are going
to turn coward and sneak, you'll have todo
it on your own account, not on mine."

Why not," pursued Olivettete, in the
same low, hurried voice, " content yourself
with marrying Wolf and adopting the
child, as he intends?"

What about Phil Munday, who knows
the secret ? Is he the man, think you, to let
himself be jilted, and lose the opportunity
for revenge ? "

"You might buy him off; you'll have

to do so. That is part of your plan, isn't
it?"

"Aye, he'll be bought off, no doubt,
when he finds the case is hopeless and
there's no better game to play, but not
before. I know the man ! Besides, so long
as the boy lives, there's always the fear of
my Wolf turning soft-hearted, and in a
sudden fit of penitence giving back everything
to him. I've seen him on the verge
of it already more than once. I know
that man too ! "

Well, I don't care what you know or
don't know. I know this is a dangerous
game, and I advise you to give it up 
that's all."

Dangerous ! where's the danger ? "
And again she laughed wildly, recklessly.
*' If there were fifty thousand times more
of danger in it, I should do it ; if there
were anything of risk in it, I should run
it. But there's none  none whatever. Now,
listen, my child, and I'll tell you exactly
how the whole thing will be done from
beginning to end, and you shall judge for

yourself how much los danger there lies
in it. I go out in the afternoon, tomorrow,
the little imp with me. I take
also an easel and painting materials, and
I say to one or other of the servants
carelessly, as I pass, that I am going to
paint that little bit of open glade Mr.
Wolf so much admires, to surprise him
on his return. Very well, I go ; I plant
my easel there ; that is all. I leave my
painting materials and camp-stool there
that is all, and I go straight back into
the woods with the imp  no one ever
passes there, no one will see. I take him
past the stream, right on to the foot of
that grey, rough mountain. I point up
the steep, narrow, winding way, and I
say to him, ' Little Bertie, your mother
is up there ; would you like to go find
her ? ' Ah, how he will jump, and caper,
and be off like a bird ! Then I take him
again by the hand, and says, ' Do you
see those dark trees, Bertie, far away up
the path? Well, your mother is hiding
among them. You must go up, up, up,

till you get to them ; then you must
crawl down on your hands and knees,
part the boughs, and you'll find her.'
Now, my sister, those trees spring out
of a sandy hollow at the side of the rock ;
they branch over the path ; they hide
the precipice. Let one who doesn't know
the road try that way  that's all ! I've
studied it  ah, I can't tell you how often.
Well, Bertie won't get beyond those trees.
I wait  I wait at the bottom of the mountain.
I go a little way up ; I call to him
no answer ; I wait till night falls ; I
go back ; I raise the hue and cry ; I
weep, I say my darling strayed away
while I painted in the open glade ; I say
every man in the place must turn out
and search. They go ; they find my easel
where I put it ; they come back without
the child, tired to death. In the morning,
they say, they will search the mountains.
I implore, I command that they
go at once with torches. They shake
their heads ; I rush to the door ; they
rush too, and pull me back. I faint on

the floor, as I know low. Ha, how white
I can make my lips when I please ! All
that is but rehearsal. To-morrow comes
home my Wolf, and I go through it all
again to perfection. Now, my child,
what risk is there in all this ? Tell me.
Oh, not one quarter so much as I have
gone through before, and thought nothing
of. It is a little comedy  nothing morea
little drawing-room piece I go
through to a not too clever audience.
They will be interested, and pay me
compliments. I laugh at them all
meantime in my sleeve. What would
you have more ? "

Olivettete, standing in front of Delphine,
with folded arms and frowning brows,
had listened intently to this long speech.
At its end she went close to her sister,
leaning over the bed.

No," she said in low, resolute tones,
"I can't go in for this. I shall start for
Steve and Mexico tomorrow morning."

You fail me at the last  coward ! "

The words were hissed at Olivettete as
VOL. in. 41

though they had been darted at her by
an adder's tongue.

"Yes, perhaps I am. I've helped you
so far, because 1 promised, but I can't
go any farther. You give me one-half
your fine jewellery and a hundred pounds
down for travelling expenses, and you
may be quite sure I won't trouble you
any more."

rive minutes of silence between the
sisters. Delphine pressed her hand across
her forehead ; she was evidently thinking
deeply.

Olivettete went on :

"The whole thing has been too drawn
out to please me. Your finessing is too
fine for me, and to tell you the truth,
I can't do what you'd do in cold blood."

Delphine drew her hand from her eyes.

"After all," she said slowly, as though
she were thinking out her plans as she
uttered them, " it may be the very best
thing that you should go tomorrow morning.
You see, if you are here it should
be you, not I, who take the boy out iowa

walk, whereas, if you are gone away
suddenly, it follows naturally that I
should take him out. Yes, I see it all.
You heard from Steve yesterday. Very
well, the letter was to say your mother
was ill, and wished your return. I naturally,
with my kind heart, send you at once.
To-morrow morning, before I have my
breakfast even, I will send for that old
Gorgon Bryce, and tell her that she must
find a nurse for me at once at Llanrhaiadr,
or wherever else they are to be had.
Ah, brava, Delphine, what a brain you
have ! How well it all fits in ! Ah, Olivettete,
my child, I am very much obliged to you,
after all. Yes, you shall have your hundred
pounds, I can manage that, and some
of my jewellery  that means the things
that don't suit me, nothing in the shape
of diamonds, don't expect them  but you'll
have to sit up all night packing ; you'd
better begin at once. Don't make too much
racket about it, I'm not very much inclined
for sleep to-night, and if you stir
about and make a clatter, I shan't get

412

a wink. Stay! I think I'll take a dose
of chloral. The scent-case is at sour
elbow, there's the key ; put me a little
in that wine-glass and leave it by my
bedside, so that I can take it off the last
thing."

Olivettete did as she was bidden.

Does Wolf know that you and Bertha
were not really sisters, only sisters in the
profession ? " she asked, as she drew one
cut glass bottle out of the case, and
prepared to stopper it.

He know ! how should he ? " answered
Delphine. " Why should I tell him ? It's
no business of his," she broke off abruptly.
Simpleton ! " she cried, making a sudden
bound from the bed to Olivettete's side ;
don't you know chloral when you see

it ? There, give me the bottle ! That's

Well, no matter what that is ; that's my
reserve bottle, in case everything else fails
me. That never can fail one in need.
Now go, begin your packing, and leave
me in peace for the rest of the night."

The day after Judith's departure
y&Mh* seemed an odd, blank, disjointed
sort of day at Plas-y-Coed. Yet
a day of events too. It began with the
vehement ringing of Delphine's bell, and
the request that Bryce should be sent
to her at once. Bryce on entering the
room was confronted by Olivettete equipped
for travel, by corded boxes, umbrellas,
and hand-bags. Delphine, with many
exclamations and regrets, related the story
concocted over-night ; asked if Olivettete
and her baggage could be driven to Pen
Cwellyn in time for the early train ; and
wound up by asking Bryce if she could
fid a nurse for the little Bertie immediately,
as she herself knew nothing of the

management of children, and .she shuddered
at the thought of her daring being
neglected in ever so slight a degree.
The woman must be staid and careful,
clean, good-tempered, capable of washing
and dressing a delicate child ; in fact,
must possess all the cardinal virtues, and
not a few of the minor ones.

Bryce's old eyes wandered lovingly to a
corner of the room where little Bertie,
surrounded with toys, was trying to build
himself into a castle of toy-bricks and turrets
; a wall behind and before was already
set up. It recalled a score or so of bygone
reminiscences to her old brain.
Tears glistened in her eyes.

If you would only allow me, ma'am,"
she said, " I would act as nurse to the
child  till you could find a better, at any
rate ; I would give you ray word he should
not be neglected."

Delphine was equal even to this emergency.


Ah, how kind, how good of you ! "
she cried, going up to the old body, and

taking her hand. " The very thing beyond
all others, isn't it, Olivettetetete ? " Olivettetetete
made no reply. "Now I know my darling
will be taken care of. Come here,
Bertie "  Bertie, with his little frock filled
with bricks, came slowly forward  " see
here, my child, Bryce has been good
enough to offer to be your nurse, for a
time, at any rate. Go up to her now,
give her your hand, and I dare say she
will take you downstairs and give you
some breakfast."

Bertie, with the remembrance of Olivettete's
warnings against the old women of the
household floating in his small brain, stood
still where he was, eyeing Bryce from top
to toe somewhat viciously.

Bryce advanced towards him.

Come, Master Bertie," she said, holding
out her hand.

Bertie's reply was to retreat a step,
upheave one of the bricks he held in his
frock, and throw it with deliberate aim at
the old body's eye. A second, a third,
a fourth, a fifth followed in rapid succession.

Bryce made for the door backward?,
shielding her face with her hands. Corvette
caught the little fellow up in her arms
and carried him off kicking and fighting
into an adjoining room.

Delphine began to apologise.

I don't like to say so," she said, turning
to Bryce with one of her sweetest
smiles ; " but I fear he likes only young
and pretty faces about him ; he has
evidently taken the matter into his own
hands, and has decided you are not
eligible for the office."

Bryce's answer was muttered in the
most uncouth of Welsh gutturals as she
quitted the room.

Translated into English, it miiht
have run somewhat as follows : " His
father, no doubt, loved young and pretty
faces to his own hurt. Lord, keep him
from a like fate ! "

Olivettete departed.

Bertie was allowed the run of the house
that day under Delphine's supervision.
He was taken upstairs on a visit of ceremony

to Mrs. Eeece, when the little fellow's
perversity and troublesomeness were
noticeable, and Delphine's forbearance and
indulgence were much admired  at least,
by Phoebe, for Mrs. Eeece was singularly
repressive and irresponsive that morning.
Bertie was allowed to appear at luncheon
also, sitting at Delphine's elbow, and
helping himself to any dish he chose.

At the close of the meal, Delphine
asked the butler if one of the servants
could take her easel and camp-stool to
the little open glade at the farther corner of
the wood, as she was wishing to make a
sketch there that afternoon.

"Mr. Wolf admired that nook, ah, so
much last year. She herself thought it
would make a grand picture. She only
feared she would not be able to satisfy
herself with her own productions, but she
could but try." And with a "Come, Bertie,
get ready for a lovely afternoon of play,"
she went upstairs to her own room.

Half an hour afterwards she and little
Bertie were seen leaving the house

together, followed by a man-servant carrying
sketching-apparatus and camp-stool.
Although she did not expect one single
eye to rest on her save that of squirrel
or bird, Delphine was as elaborately and
daintily dressed as though she were about
to stand the levelling at lier of a few
score of critical eyeglasses in the Eow or
the Bois de Bologna. Her dresses were
nearly all indescribable, like herself ; they
seemed to indicate the most graceful of
lines and curves, but with a phantasy that
Alas difficult to follow, and an originality
that was all her own. The thing she
wore this afternoon was deep violet in
colour, relieved here and there with a
fleck of old-gold," and completed by a hat
which matched in colour and material.

Bertie's dress was all of old gold, som-bred
here and there with touches of violet.
Those who saw him go out that afternoon
thought how like a little fairy prince he
looked in his bright attire, with his est rich-plumed
hat, and golden curls rippling
beneath in the light summer breeze.

It was a glorious afternoon, hot, hazy,
as became a midsummer's eve, yet, withal,
kept fresh and pleasant. by a soft south
wind blowing off the mountains. The
valley seemed full of a light golden haze.
A hundred thousand song-birds were twittering
in the woods.

Bertie's bright frock made a pretty bit
of colour in the landscape as for a moment
he paused at the garden-gates, looking up
at a certain corner of the house where a
pair of noisy martins were fluttering in
and out from under the eaves, evidently
intent upon building and setting up an
establishment.

Come, Bertie," called Delphine's clear
voice a little Away ahead ; and the little
fellow was gone.

Wolf, whirling home to North
Wales in the night-express,
looked before and behind him,
and asked himself a few questions. What
and how much of his past must be sealed
and consigned to oblivion? What and how
much of his future would be his own, to
mould as he would, to do with whatsoever
seemed good in his own eyes ?

Away from Delphine, the spell of her
eyes, the magic of her presence, it was
possible for him to put these questions to
himself with some chance of getting a
rational answer.

A rational and a practical one was what
he wanted. It was of no use for his
conscience to say to him, "go here," "go

there," " do this," '' do that," on matters
where such going and doing would be
impracticable No ! Such suggestions, he
had long since decided, were not to be
listened to, they were futile, and, no doubt,
after a time would cease to be whispered
in his ear. The matter before him was
to decide how to make the best of things
as they were, not to attempt to re-cast
them in any other mould.

And here he fell to congratulating himself
that, after all, things had turned out
better than he had any right to expect.
The woman he had so dreaded, and whom,
out of sheer desperation, as the only means
of stopping her rapacity and wresting her
sceptre from her, he had promised to
marry, was really, after all, less dangerous
and far more attractive to his fancy than
he would at one time have thought possible.

Then, too, that preposterous deed of
hers, the bringing little Bertie upon the
scene after he (Wolf) had paid such large
sums to keep him away in America, had
not turned out such a bad arrangement,

after all. A danger under one's eye was
certainly less to be dreaded than a danger
some thousands of miles away. Besides,
it gave him such splendid opportunity
for reparation  for more than reparation
for showering upon little Bertie, in the
shape of educational and other advantages,
far more than ever he had robbed him of.

Now what benefit, so his thoughts ran
on, would the knowledge of his parentage
and station in life confer upon this boy ?
He, Wolf, would take care that of not
one real advantage that parentage and
station could give him, should lie be
deprived ; the knowledge of both could
avail him but little. At his own death,
no matter what other claims might be
upon him, little Bertie should have everything
given back to him, and given back
to him increased and improved a hundredfold
by his kinsman's brief stewardship.

Who would be the worse for this
stewardship ? he asked himself fiercely,
defiantly. Not Bertie, for he had just
sworn that not by a hair's-breadth should

he suffer in mind, body, or estate. Not
Oscar, for he had gone off to begin a new
life, armed cap-a-pie as he never could have
been had they all remained in their hideous
poverty at the East End of London. Not
Mrs. Eeece, for was she not now in her
old age surrounded by comforts and
luxuries which all aged people needed,
but which wealth alone could procure ?

Wliy, if anybody had suffered by this
deed which he had done, it was himself,
and himself only, in sleepless nights and
anxious days ; no living soul had right to
point the finger and say : " This man dragged
down our souls to hell with his own.

And here there came a mist before his
eyes, which, had he been a weak man
and given to emotion, might have passed
for tears. As it was, with his heart grown
now into something of the substance
and density of flint, he said to himself,
It was nothing but weariness and weakness
of the eyelids, through midnight
travelling and lack of sleep. For what
could there be in the thought of any young

girl of twenty, least of all such a girl as
Judith Wynne, to fill a man's eyes with
water or set his heart aching and quaking?"


On this count, more than any other,
there was cause for naught but rejoicing
and thankfulness. Many men in his place,
so he told himself, would have done outright
what he so nearly did  have taken
advantage of her girlish simplicity, her
kindly sympathy, have sought and won
her love, and thrown the half of his heavy
burthens on her weak shoulders. Ah,
thank Heaven, he had stopped short of
that ! He had not sullied her pure conscience
with the guilty whispers of his
own  nay, more, he had had strength and
courage to send her away from his side
to a brighter and more suitable home,
where, no doubt, among congenial, lighthearted
companions she would speedily
shake off and forget the gloom and sadness
of the past. Yes, thank Heaven !
she, no more than the others, would have
cause to curse him when the great day

of reckoning came. Hideous as his own
soul might be, and no doubt was, it had
at least kept its hideousness to itself, had
not tainted any other soul with its infection.
Black and vile it might be to its
very core, but others had been the better,
not the worse, for its blackness and vileness,
and if it so happened that it died at
last of its own plague, it would be at
least the plague of a canker, a disease
self-centred, for which none but itself
would suffer.

These and similar ones were the thoughts
wherewith he shortened his long journey
home. Towards sunrise of that midsummer
day he slept a little from sheer eye-weariness
and bodily exhaustion. As day dawned
fully over the Welsh mountains he aroused
once more, and found himself entering the
town of Pen Cwellyn.

He had desired that no one should send
to meet him from Plas-y-Coed, meaning to
take a hired fly from the railway station.
One fly was always in attendance to meet
each down train, although there was but
VOL. ni. 42

seldom a demand for it. Pen Cwellyn
was the quietest and least frequented of
market-towns, it led nowhere save to Plash
and a stranger alighting there was
looked upon somewhat as a vara avis
in terris. However, on this particular
morning, as Wolf descended from his
railway-carriage and looked about him
for further means of transit, he saw that
such a vara avis had actually alighted
before him, and was now making for the
one little cab Pen Cwellyn could boast.

He was a stalwart-looking individual,
very much muffled up about the throat,
and with hat drawn rather low over his
brows. As he went rapidly along the
narrow footway, Wolf could only discern
that he had jet-black whiskers and a
noticeable row of gleaming white teeth.

EYEN o'clock on a midsummer
|H| morning ; the dew not yet scared
by scorching sunbeams from off
moss or grassy border ; the air faintly
troubled by awakening lower-scents and
uprising larks ; many-leaved beeches and
birches rustling together, as though they
were telling each to the other their overnight's
dreams ; long grasses bellowing
and bending under a light scudding breeze,
now flashing back a rich aqua-marine,
anon " in colour like the satin-s dining
palm on gallows in the windy gleams of
March," a quaint old house, brightened
up coquettishly here and there with
modern touches, standing serene and stately
in the midst of it all.

422

In very truth, a fair midsummer picture
it made. No touch of tragedy here ; one
could scarcely bear even to think of a dead
sparrow in the glamour of this sunshiny
landscape.

Yet if Wolf, as he paused at the door
of his own house, had seen inscribed over
the lintel those Avoids of doom, " Abandon
hope, all ye who enter here," or that
mystic handwriting which startled the
Assyrian king in the midst of his revels,
it might have been better for him 
might more fitly have prepared him for
that which he was to see and hear when
the door opened to receive him.

As it was, he started back, as though
he had been met by a volley of musketry
as he crossed the threshold. A woman
in dark violet robes lay stretched upon
the floor of the hall, her hair hanging
down dishevelled, like a black silken veil,
below her waist, her hands clasped and
extended high above her head. Her face
was death-like in its pallor, her full white
eyelids were closed, and one might have

thought she slept, had not piteous moans
from time to time broken from her hips.
It was Delphine. Thus, in spite of all
remonstrance, had she lain throughout the
entire night moaning, incessantly, " Oh,
my Bertie  my Bertie ! " the plaint changing
now to "Oh, my Wolf my Wolf!"
as the hall-door opened and she became
conscious of Wolf's presence, of his standing
over her in amazed silence, of his
kneeling down on the floor beside her,
and endeavouring to unclasp her cold,
rigid hands.

The servants, in twos and threes, were
standing at the lower end of the hall talking
in whispers.

She has been like this all the night
through," he heard one say to the other.

What does it all mean ? " he asked,
and a great fear shook his heart.

"Oh, my Wolf!" she moaned again.
"Oh, my Wolf, my Wolf! how shall I
tell it to you?"

"Don't try to tell me anything here,"
he said angrily. " Get up and go to your

own room ; or, if you feel yourself unable
to move, I will carry you."

He put his arms round her waist and
lifted her bodily off the floor ; then, with
the help of one of the maids, little by
little, they got her up the two flights of
stairs to her own room and laid her on
the sofa.

Safely landed here, her grief overcame
her once more. She buried her face
downwards in the sofa-pillows ; she beat
her hands frantically together, and moaned
aoain and aain:

"Oh, my Wolf, my Wolf! How shall
I tell you ! "

"Don't keep me any longer in suspense,
Delphine," said Wolf in low nervous tones,
for he was beginning to feel the strain
beyond bearing, " Tell me right out at
once. Is my mother all right ? "

Oh, yes ! oh, yes ! " sobbed Delphine ;
she is as well as ever ; she doesn't feel it
as I do."

And Judith ? " The words seemed
wrung from his lips : he hated to mention

Juditli's name in this beautiful, evil woman's
presence, yet perforce lie must. The dread
of some ill having befallen her, which,
lightning-like, had flashed through his
brain, was a dread not to be borne voluntarily
for more than a second and a half.

Delphine lifted up her white face from
the pillows. For one instant there came
a steely, baneful look into her dark eyes ;
for one instant she cursed her own folly,
which had let this girl depart from the
house threatened, uninjured.

"What should I know about her?"
she said in sharp, metallic tones. " What
would it matter to me what became of
her ? Should I lie here and weep for her,
if she were dead and buried a thousand
times over ? "

Wolfss face grew hard as iron.

I dare say not," he said coldly, " but
others might." He paused a moment, as
though mastering some strong feeling, then
went on in a more conciliatory tone :
Well, now, Delphine, that you are
calmer, tell me what has happened that

I may see what can be done for the best.
Why are you lying here in this state ? "

Delphine sobbed and moaned again.

It's my Bertie  my darling Bertie ! "
she said between her gasps. " He's gone forever.
I shall never  never see him again."

Bertie ! "

The word broke from his lips in sharp,
agonised accents. Then he stood motionless,
rooted to the spot, all signs of human
life dying out of his face.

Aye, my Bertie ! " sobbed Delphine.
'He strayed away yesterday ; he has been
seen by no one ; he is lost, or drowned,
or dead. I shall never  never see him
more ! "

He made her no answer. He still stood
there, staring at her with stony, lack-lustre
eyes, spellbound, as though he had been
listening to the sweet notes of Shannon's
birds.

Delphine grew frightened at her own
handiwork. What was going to happen ?
Were things about to take an awkward
turn now ?

She lifted herself languidly from the
couch. She dragged herself slowly yet
gracefully to his side, as one might go
who was half worn out with grief and pain.

"Oh, my Wolf!" she said softly, laying
her hand upon his arm. " Do not look
like that at me. Speak to me one word 
one little word. Ah, I did not think yon
loved the little one so well ! "

Her voice, her touch, seemed to break
the spell which bound him. He recoiled
one step, shaking himself free from her.

Back ! " he said in a voice that sounded
like the fall of some mighty hammer on
Volcanic anvil. "Back! Don't touch
me  stand where you are. Look in my
face, and tell me what you have done with
the child."

And Delphine stood where she was,
looked up in his face piteously, innocently,
and said in plaintive tones :

Done with the child ? Oh, my Wolf,
what can you mean ? The darling strayed
away yesterday while I sketched just outside
the wood. I call, I search for him everywhere.

I come home, I send the men out
to search. They come back ; they cannot
find him. I know not where to send them
next ; " and once more she sobbed and
moaned, essaying to hide her weeping face
on his shoulder.

But he put her from him with iron
hand.

It's a lie ! " he said in a voice growing
harder with every word he uttered ; " a
cursed lie ! You know where the child is ;
sou have hidden him away somewhere.
I will have no trifling now. I command
you tell me the truth on this matter,
though you lie to me about everything
else under heaven."

Oh, my Wolf, you speak to me so ? ''
and Delphine sank on the floor beside the
sofa, hiding her face with her clasped
hands.

"Yes, I speak to you so  I, the man
whom you have fooled to your heart's
content. I speak to you so, and I mean
every word I say. I tell you I will have
no murder done in my house  no diabolical

cruelty practised on this child. I say I will
have clean hands ! Clean hands  do you
hear? not bloodstained ones!"

It was once more the echo of that voice
Judith had heard in the corridor in the
dead of night.

"Murder! Oh, my Wolf, my Wolf!"
sobbed Delphine ; " you do not mean to
say you think my darling is murdered ? "

I can  I do ; and I say more, I dare
accuse you of his murder ! "

He strode to her side ; he took her
hands from her face, holding them both
in one of his strong ones.

Look up at me, Delphine," he said. She
did so. It was marvellous how she could
stand the fire of those fierce, angry eyes.
Look up and see that I mean every
word as I utter it," he went on. "I
command you to tell me what you have
done with the child ; where you have
hidden him ; in what corner of the woods
or mountains he is lying now. Do you
understand me ? "

Delphine's penetration had not deceived

her when she had said that this man
would make a terrible master if once he
got the upper hand.

She felt cowed  a little ; not much.

'' Alas ! my Wolf " she began.

But Wolf stopped her, laying his other
hand upon her lips.

"I want no words from you, except
they be answers to my questions. Once
more, and it is for the last time, I ask
it. What have you done with the child?
Where is he?"

Delphine's head drooped upon her
bosom.

''- Alas ! my Wolf, I cannot tell you,"
she sighed.

Wolf let go her hands, and strode to
the fireplace, giving one loud, long pull
to the bell.

Send Mr. Maurice to me at once ! "
was his order to the scared maid, who
came running up, thinking her aid was
required by Miss Delphine.

Mr. Maurice, who was in the house,
quickly made his appearance.

Wolf addressed the worthy steward with
peremptory abruptness.

I want to know exactly what has been
done with regard to the search for the
missing boy ? " he said.

Well, sir, considering how short a time
has elapsed since the child was lost, I
think everything possible has been done,"
answered Mr. Maurice. "A party was
organised directly Miss Pierpoint returned
saying the little fellow was missing, and
we searched the woods till night fell,
from the point where the child must have
strayed. We could not attempt the mountains
so late  there was no moon  but
as soon as day dawned all the men round
far and near formed three parties and
went up three several ways."

"Well?"

Two parties have returned, sir, but
not the third ; they have nothing to report
; they came upon nothing unusual
anywhere."

Has the stream been dragged ? "

Not yet, sir, but that can be set about

at once. You see it's getting wind in the
neighbourhood that the child is lost, and
men keep coming from all parts offering
their services."

"Very well ; accept the services of every
man who offers, and let them set about
dragging the stream at once. Have the
police been informed ? "

He asked this question with eyes
fixed full on Delphine's bowed face.
She did not start nor shrink, however,
but upturning her beautiful eyes, said
softly :

"Ah, we did not think of that ; we were
all so shocked and bewildered."

"Well, sir, I thought of it, to tell you
the truth," said the steward, " but scarcely
liked to take so much upon myself in your
absence."

I will ride at once myself to Pen
Cwellyn, and send over an inspector. I
may not come back with him, for I shall
want to go into the woods to see what
the men are doing there ; but see yourself
that he is shown up here to hear from

this lady's own lips exactly low the child
was lost."

And with this final order Wolf strode
away, and in less than \q minutes, breakfasted
still, was in the saddle, and setting
ofi* at a good rattling pace down the rocky
road to Pen Cwellyn.

It was Merlin awaking with a vengeance
at last !

&

[||I|HE search for the lost boy continued
all through that long midsummer
day. Wolf having informed
the police at Pen Cwellyn, and sent the
chief-inspector into Delphine's presence,
himself rode off to the woods to superintend
the efforts of the searchers. Fruitless,
all of them. At noon the head of
one party came to him, reporting that
the stream of St. Govan had been dragged
from bank to bank, and save a few bits
of broken fishing-tackle, and an old shoe
or two, nothing had been brought to land.
Party after party of the men who had
been scouring the country round came
back with blank, tired faces, and no
tidings of any sort. Wolf was always

there to receive them, he remained in the
saddle the whole day, eating nothing, saying
never a word, staring with wild eyes at
every man who approached him, as though
he would read the news he had to bring
before his tongue had time to speak it.
From post to post he wandered, his heart,
a thousand times that day, torn with wild,
impossible hopes, with equally wild, impossible
terrors.

At one time he could have sworn he
heard afar off a wailing, pitiful cry as
of a small child hiding amid the brushwood,
and pushing forward to the spot
with a terrible eagerness, out would flutter
a dismal corncrake, or wild, piping finch.
At another his strained eyeballs, discerning
the approach of some distant wood-cutters,
would picture in their arms the dead body
of the little Bertie, with torn blood-stained
clothing, and draggled, unkempt hair.
In that one long midsummer day he
seemed to live a life-time twice told, he
passed and repassed from youth, with fiery
blood and courage, though middle life to
VOL. ur. 43

old age ; once and again he could feel the
life dying out of him inch by inch, the
blood thinning in his veins, the spirit
within him dwindling and quenched.

Those who saw him, who, not all-absorbed
in their work of searching, had time to
note his anguish, his fierceness, his despair,
pitied hmi, and sympathised with him as
they never had sympathised before. Wolf
had not, since his coming to Plas-y-Coed,
been a popular man among his neighbours ;
this sorrow, however, and the way in
which he bore it, drew many to him who
had hitherto held themselves aloof. The
loss of a child touched a chord of some
sort in every heart ; it was a grief which
every man, woman, and child in the community
might some day, in some fashion
or other, be called upon to endure. It
made hearts at one with his, who had
hitherto never dreamed such sympathy
possible.

The day wore away.  Five o'clock found
men talking together in twos and threes
debating what next could be done. It

found Wolf sick and giddy, reeling in his
saddle, and thanking a farmer's lad who
stood by for a drink of water from a tin
can which he held in his hand.

You'd best go home, sir," said old
Davies. who had come out in search of
him ; '' the mistress has been asking for
you all day long, and wondering whether
you have had aught to eat or drink, and,
sir, some of the men who have been searching
the mountain have just come in, and
have something to say to you."

Wolf turned his horse's head towards
home immediately, all sorts of wild surmises
fleeting through his brain. Standing just
outside the door were some four or
five stalwart-looking men, all talking in
earnest, low tones to each other in
Welsh.

One, who appeared to be acting as chief
among them, came forward, fumbling in
his waistcoat-pocket. He said he did not
know whether what he had found would be
of any use in the matter, but thought it as
well to bring it to the house. He then

432

produced a small fragment of white Spanish
lace.

Wolf shook like an aspen leaf, he could
scarcely command his voice to ask where it
had been found.

The man explained that he had discovered
it caught in some brushwood a little way
up the mountain passage which led out of
the wood.

This was the least frequented of the three
roads leading up the mountains. It was a
deceptively dangerous passage, presenting
for the first hundred yards or so simply the
appearance of a steep pleasant footway 
nothing more. Step by step, almost imperceptibly,
the dangers grew upon one ; here
the path suddenly narrowed, and was encumbered
by huge boulders and gigantic
fragments of rock ; there it as suddenly
shelved, and with a sharp turn skirted the
edge of a deep precipice, from whose sandy
sides sprang a few mountain trees which
concealed without lessening the danger of
the chasm. Just before, however, this
precipice was reached, there we're a few

clumps of stunted furze and broom, and it
was in these that the fragment of white
lace had been discovered.

Wolf looked at it for a few minutes, then
he said a little hoarsely:

Fetch the inspector here ; he had better
see this."

The inspector came, and the lace was
handed over to him.

"Miss Pierpoint is the only person in
the house who can say for certain whether
it belonged to the child or not," said
Wolf.

The inspector at once offered to take the
lace for Miss Pierpoint's inspection.

He returned in a few moments, sa3dng-
that Miss Pierpoint was certain the lace was
little Bertie's, and that the child had worn
a frock trimmed with it when he had gone
out yesterday. He added that the young
lady had been greatly overcome by the
sight of it.

The precipice must be searched at
once," said Wolf.

Even as he said this he grew sick and

giddy again, almost falling forward on his
horse's neck.

Mr. Maurice brought him some brandy.

Sir, you must give in for to-day," he
said. " You have eaten nothing. You
have all day been riding about in this
scorching sun. I will give orders about
having the precipice thoroughly searched.
There are plenty of men here who are only
too anxious to be of use, and who will
begin the work at once."

Wolf with difficulty got himself out of
the saddle, and went into the house. The
butler came forward to tell him that refreshments
were laid for him in the diningroom,
but he waved him on one side impatiently.
The old man followed him, saying
that Mrs. Eeece had been sending
messages for him all day and was most
anxious to see him. But Wolf went past
him as though he had heard him not,
straight into his own study, shutting the
door behind him.

Almost mechanically he took his usual
seat at his writing-table, then he fell forward,

bowing his head upon it with one
heavy groan.

My God ! " he moaned bitterly, " have
mercy ! My punishment is greater than I
can bear."

Self-branded, he sat there with the cry
of Cain upon his lips.

For a few moments a mist and blank
seemed to fall upon him. His brain felt
stupefied, inert, incapable. Little by little,
however, it cleared. Thoughts began to
form in it, visions of the past to come slowly
forth and confront him ; spectres of the
present to troop forth till they gathered
together a goodly company around him.

This, then, was the end to which his sin,
step by step, had led him! This was to
be the result of his many sleepless nights,
his weary, painful days, his strivings against
the voice of conscience, his resistance to the
pleadings of his good angel, his toilsome
building up of philosophic and ethical bulwarks,
his resolute determination in so far
as in him lay to repair the evil he had
wrought by a lifetime's devotion to the one

he had wronged. This  this the result, to see
all swept and whirled away in a moment
like a dry leaf upon the flood, and the
awful guilt of blood-shedding brought home
to his very door !

One more exceeding bitter cry escaped
his lips, and then he bowed his head again
and wept passionately.

Not as a child ; not the sort of tears that
women weep  easy-flowing, heart-tightening
; not the summer shower that gives
promise of sunshine breaking forth presently
from behind the dark cloud. No !
Men such as Wolf Eeece know not tears of
that sort. When they weep it is once for
all in a lifetime, and the tears they shed
are not healing, nor burden-lifting, but
bitter, burnings, scorching: thinness, which
sear as they fall ; which tell a tale of
wounds never to be healed, of hope
burnt out, and retribution at hand, assure,
as inevitable, as final as death
itself.

Thus he wept.

For how lonc he knew not. The

sunbeams slanted, the shadows lengthened ;
outside, on field and mountain, there lingered
enough of light to enable men who
knew every square inch of the ground
to continue their search for little Bertie,
but within the old Grange the grey twilight
had deepened into night itself.

There came a gentle knock at Wolf's
door, and, though he heeded it not, the
handle turned, and Delphine came in. Her
entrance was silent and stealthy as that of
a moth's flight into a dark room. Not a
footfall nor flutter of skirt stirred the air.
Wolf did not know of her presence till she
stood by his side, twined her arms round
his neck, laid her cheek upon his bowed
head, and moaned pitifully.

Oh, ni} Wolf, my Wolf, you are breaking
my heart ! "

He started from his chair as though an
adder had stung him, recoiling a step from
her.

Go ! " he said in a choking voice. "For
your own sake, don't come near me, to-night
at any rate."

The room was too dark for her to see the
wild glitter in his eye.

For my own sake  oh, my Wolf, what
do you mean ? " and again she essayed to
twine her arms about him.

Stand back ! " he said in a voice of
thunder. "What  do you not know a
desperate man when you see him ? "

Something in his voice cowed her. She
stood still and silent for a few seconds surveying
him.

In those few seconds she measured her
danger, its possibilities, its probabilities.
Truly things had turned out other than she
had expected. Her fascinations evidently
had lost their cunning, or else  more likely
the material upon which they had been
wont to operate had suffered change of
substance. Well  easy remedy enough 
other forces must be brought to bear upon it.

The clay had been transformed into iron;
no use trying to mould that  it must be
heated, beaten, forced into "shape and use."

My Wolf," she said, altering her tone
from that of a single string to a richard,

you speak roughly, rudely ; you forget
you are talking to a woman."

Can you wonder if I forget you are a
woman? Have you not yourself already
forgotten the fact ? "

The words were spoken slowly, sternly,
incisively. Delphine, as she listened, said
to herself that it was hisfh time she buckled
on her armour and took her weapons in hand.

You forget something else beside, my
Wolf  you forget the bond there has been
there is between us. You are ungrateful,
my friend. Ah, what have I not done for
you? and here you are, all in a moment,
wanting to forget everything! Once it was
not so. You were grateful enough ; you
gave thousands when I asked for hundreds.
I asked for your friendship, you gave me
more  your true eternal love. Is this
truth, my friend  is this love eternal ?
Now, what have I done, I ask, that you
requite me thus ? "

Wolf was at bay now.

What have you done, do you ask ? " he
cried in a voice that o'all itself mieht have

been wrung out of. " I will tell you
what you have done  robbed me of my
honour, my truth, my honesty, made me
hateful in my own eyes, despicable in the
sight of every living human being, dragged
my soul down to hell, and would keep it
there with your own hands if it were not
that the devil himself has got hold of it
now and doesn't require your services any
longer.

Delphine did not smile at him now,
according to her wont ; it might be she
thought, her smiles might lack their
usual power over him in this frame of
mind; or it might be she thought, the
room was too dark to show them to
their best advantage.

So she contented herself with savings
quietly and with tightening lips :

My Wolf, do you defy me ? "

Yes ! " was his reply, thrown back at
her in fierce, deep-chested tones. " I defy
you a hundred times over. You have done
your worst  your very worst. What remains
to be done  what by any possibility

you may do can be but child's play now.
You may ruin my reputation. What is that
when my honour is gone ? You may set
men on to prosecute and imprison me for
the wickedness I have wrought. What is
that when I feel that eternally God's
wrath will be upon me, that for me there
will be no place for repentance, let me seek
it never so earnestly, in this world nor
any other."

His words for once made her tremble.
Yet, as she stood there facings the man in
the rapidly-darkening room, some new,
unknown chord in her nature seemed
touched ; something  could it be a feeling
akin to reverence?  flitted through her
soul for him, standing thus beaten, baffled,
at bay ; making one last struggle to free
himself from the web of iniquity she had
meshed about him.

However, the chord, though touched,
had no vibration, but passed quickly " into
silence out of sight." She went back
rapidly enough to the matter in hand.

My Wolf," she said, " I have no wish

to do any one of these things you speak of.
You misunderstand me altogether ; you say
hard things of me, of yourself, my friend.
Now, be reasonable; let us talk quietly.
Why should you make all this hue-and-cry
about a small child who is nothing in the
world to you, whom you were quite content
should be put quietly on one side for your
interests, whom, should the men searching
outside bring back to you alive and well,
you would find very much in the way,
and would send upstairs to a nursery, to
live there, out of sight, a dependent on your
bounty ?;"

"No such thing," broke in Wolf with
savage vehemence, and lifting his hand on
high. " God is my witness ! In the
future, to the very end of my life, not one
penny of that child's fortune will I touch.
I know  you know that repentance of
mine now will avail me nothing  you nothing,
for God's curse is on us both for the
sin we have wrought ; but should that boy
ever be brought back to us alive, I swear,
by all that is holy and righteously my

knees, before all the world, I would give
back to him every penny of which I have
robbed him."

He finished his sentence in a loud, passionate
ring. What recked he of listeners,
a desperate man in a desperate mood?
Delphine might well shrink back from him
a step or two into the darkness.

The door opened at this moment, softly,
lingeringly ; it let in a long stream of
yellow light from outside lamps, which had
been lighted. It cut the dark room in two ;
it put distance between Wolf and Delphine;
they looked across it one into the other's
face, she into his fierce, desperate eyes, he
into her evil, glittering ones. Then they
each turned and faced a dark figure which
stood like some silent angel in the midst of
the yellow gleam.

It was Judith, with little Bertie clinging
tightly round her neck !

WWO'R a moment there was silence
H| among tliera. Wolf, drawing a long
breath, staaerecl against the wall
of the room, and, incapable of speech, with
staring, stony eyes, gazed upon the two.
Delphine came one step forward, with
something of a crouching panther step.
She was not pleasant to look upon at that
moment, and a poignard might have been
a very ugly weapon in her hand.

Judith was the first to speak. Her face
was deathlike in its pallor, but her voice
calm and passionless as might have been
that of one of Guide's saints.

'" I have brought back the child whom
you plotted to murder," she said, slightly,
turning to Delphine.

Then she crossed the room, and stood
in the darkness by Wolfss side.

Here'' she said, " is the boy to whom
not a moment ago you promised restitution
and reparation."

Delphine began to re-muster her forces.
Was this to be a final defeat, or simply
a rout?

I plotted to murder ! " she exclaimed in
accents of surprise. " Oh, Miss Judith,
Miss Judith, why do you hate me so ?
What have I done that you should pursue
me in this way with slander and calumny?
Is it because I have crossed you in
your love-making that you bring these
terrible charges against me ? "

Hush ! " said Judith peremptorily.
Do not attempt to deny it. Do not add
Hes to your wickedness. I slept in the
house on Thursday night, in the Tapestry
Eoom. In the passage that runs at the
back of your bedroom I stood for hours.
I heard every word of your shameful
plot, and took my own measures to
defeat it."

VOL. ni. 44

Judith victrix at last!

But Delphine was not one to throw up
her arms and cry misericordia while there
remained a ghost of a chance of turning
the tide of battle.

She gave the lowest, longest, most mirthless
laugh of which she was capable. She
even clapped her hands together softly, as
one, kid-gloved, might applaud at a theatre.

A brave story, Miss Judith ! " she
cried, " a story everyone in all the world
would believe ! You go into a room that
is bricked up and cannot be entered ;
you hear me speak words I never uttered !
It is a delightful mystery, my friend ! "
and once more her scornful laugh trilled
forth.

"It is no mystery at all. Bryce will
tell you how I entered that room if you
ask her," answered Judith calmly ; " it can
all be easily explained if you wish for an
explanation. On Thursday, when I went
away from here, I went only so far as to
the next station, returned to Pen Cwellyn
at night-fall, and walked back to this

house. Then I went straight up to the
Tapestry Eoom by a side staircase, heard
your plot, went out again, feeling and
finding my way into the woods. There I
stayed till day dawned. Then I made my
way up the mountain-side."

A brave story " began Delphine

again.

Hush  sh ! " said Wolf authoritatively,
though his voice sounded terribly out of
tune and unlike his own. " Go on, Judith,"
he added, turning to the young girl.

So Delphine contented herself with
another, and another of her long, low
laughs Yet even as she laughed her plans
were forming.

Judith went on :

I lay hidden all day long among the
brushwood. In the late afternoon came
little Bertie up the mountain looking for
his mother "  here she turned and faced
Delphine. " He found me instead hidden
among the gorse, this side of the deep
precipice."

And then ? " queried Wolf in the same

442

unnatural tone of voice, drawing almost
involuntarily nearer and nearer to where
Judith stood.

Bertie had all this time lain quiescent
in Judith's arms ; as, however, he saw Wolf
approaching, though only by a step, he
clenched his tiny fist, and tried lo aim a
blow at his face.

Wolf shrank back ; he felt a coward
now before the uplifted hand of this small
child.

Judith went on :

I kept him there safe and out of sight
till night began to fall ; then in the darkness
I brought him back to the house."
She paused.

Go on ; what then ? " said Wolf.
I brought him back into the Tapestry
Eoom, giving him the food Bryce was good
enough to bring up to me. He has been
in that room the whole of this day."

"You  you  you did this?" exclaimed
Wolf, a terrible twanoinr harshness mains
itself heard in his voice.

He was silent a moment, weighing the

enormous physical strain that this young
girl had endured voluntarily during the
past two days ; against this he fell to
measuring? the fearful mental strain he
himself had sustained throughout the
past twelve hours."

And all the time I was enduring this
awful torture and agony the child was
safe with you, and might have been produced
at any moment. Judith, Judith,
was this well done ? " and here his voice
rang out sharply, passionately.

It was well done."

What, to keep me agonised, tortured,
suffering, my brain racked, my senses
almost leaving me, my heart well-nigh
broken ? "

It was well done I say," answered
Judith loudly, clearly, her voice as decisive
as his own in his best days, " and I
would do it over again tomorrow if it
had to be done. I would rack your brain,
I would break your heart a thousand times
over sooner than have it hard, stubborn,
callous, as it has been in the days gone by."

You would do this  you ? "

"Aye, I would do this. I have done it
to-day ; I would do it again tomorrow
should the need arise."

Wolf opened his lips as though about
to speak, then he caught back his breath
with a gasp, saying nothing.

*hear her! She threatens you, my
Wolf!" said Delphine softly.

I do," said Judith, once more turning
round and confronting the woman. " Sofar
as he shows mercy to himself, so far
will I have none for him. I will bo
pitiless so far as he shows himself pity."

I am not likely to do that now,
Judith," said Wolf in low, unnatural
tones.

Then, somehow, he pulled himself together,
quitted the room with lagging,
uncertain steps, crossed the hall, and went
out into the warm, hazy darkness.

Delphine for one instant faced Judith.

Adieu, sweet Miss Judith," she
said softly, making her the lowest and
most profound of curtseys. "Congratulate

you on your day's work. ' It was
well done, and fitting for a princess the
daughter of so many kings.' But others,
perhaps, can do better than well Be
warned. ' When clouds are seen wise men
put on their cloaks.' Shall I lend you
one, Miss Judith ? The game isn't quite
ended yet. It may be ' double,' it maybe
' quits,' between us the next throw. We
shall see. Adieu, my sweet young friend.
I kiss sour hand ! "

Then, making another elaborate curtsey,
she turned and went out after Wolf into
the night.



v

IUTSIDE in the dark garden the air
Sop was hot and still, not the faintest
breath of wind stirred leaf or twi.
There was no moon ; black, murky clouds
hung low, as though resting on the very
tops of the sombre beeches. The garden
seemed literally walled and ceiled by beech
and cloud.

Surveyed from the terrace-steps, where
Delphine stood for a few moments, it
seemed like some dismal cavern, a Dom-daniel,
perhaps, "lying under the roots
of the Ocean," and containing all sorts of
hideous possibilities and sorceries.

There was evidently a storm coming on.
Now, if there were one tliinsf which Delphine
dreaded more than any other, it

was a thunderstorm. Only next to apparitions
and ghosts she ranked the evil things,
thunder and lio-htninn.

During a storm, her usual refuge was
a dark cupboard or cellar, and one seeking
her there would have found her, while
the tempest lasted, ready and willing to
fall down and worship eagle, sea-calf, or
laurel  anything, in fact, that ancient or
modern wisdom had put upon a pinnacle.
Her senses on the matter of thunder and
lightning were peculiarly sharpened and
intensified, and she was wont to declare
she could smell a storm on its road
when it was a hundred or so of miles
away.

So now, as she stood for a moment
locking down the dark avenues and up
again at the inky sky, it occurred to her
how much nicer and pleasant it would
be if she could get Wolf back into the
house, and have her little talk with him
between four solid walls of stone masonry,
instead of out there, amid the shifting,
deepening shadows of the trees.

ii

Wolf my Wolf!" she called softly.

Wolf, Wolf my Wolf!"

But not the faintest vibration stirred
the air. Stillness, hot, hazy darkness everywhere
 nothing more.

Well, there was no help for it. See
him she must and would that night. It
was of first and final importance. It
meant, in fact, to her all the difference
between a safe, leisurely, comfortable retreat
and a helter-skelter rout and flight.
That was all.

It would be difficult in this grimy darkness
to find him, no doubt. He might
possibly have gone wandering out into the
fields or woods. He was just in the frame
of mind to do unpleasant, unheard-of
things. Well, if so, all she could do would
be to wait at the gate till he returned.

He must come back some time or other.
It would be tedious, it would be disagreeable,
no doubt, but it was one of those
tedious, disagreeable things there was no
getting out of: like the paying of bills
or the taking of nauseous medicine, it

simply must be done. First, however, she
would make the round of the garden and
shrubberies ; he might be hiding himself
somewhere among the laurels in the darkness.


Her thoughts came to a sudden ending.
Hark ! what was that noise somewhere on
her right hand ? A sob, a groan was it ?
For a moment she listened intently. It
sounded again, though more faintly. Ah,
it must be Wolf, and not far away, either.
It seemed to come from that huge beech-tree
half-way down the gravelled walk.
And with something of a gleam of satisfaction
 born of the thought that the
Fates were still fighting on her side 
parting her lips and lighting her eyes, she
went softly and slowly down the terrace-steps
and out into the laurel-walk beyond,
looking right and left as she went along.

A graceful, lissom figure she looked,
gliding in and out among the shrubs. Delphine
was always scrupulously  daintily-attired,
but never more so than on this
day of bewildering hopes and fears.

She had taken much pains vith her
toilette before she had faced Wolf in his
study, and not one fold, one ribbon of it
was disarranged now. She had on a robe
of some soft satiny material, a pale carnation
in colour. In make it closely
followed the lines of her slender yet well-rounded
figure, expressing as well as
draping it. Her eyes were very brilliant
that night, her colour almost hectic. Seen
thus gliding in and out among the dark,
shining laurels, pausing a moment to listen
for a faint echo of sound, anon calling softly,
sadly, "My Wolf oh, my Wolf!" one
might have fancied her a " mournful
-none, wandering forlorn," and seeking
her Paris amid the shadows of Mount Ida,
or a love-lorn Dido in quest of her eneas
amono- Carthaginian proves.

Under the huge beech-tree there had
been of late fixed a rustic garden-seat ; on
this, with head bowed on his clasped hands.
Wolf was seated. Just before a bend in
the path brought, the dark outlines of his
figure into sight, Delphine paused, and,

taking out the big gold Tuscan pin wliicli
fastened up her knot of jet-black hair,
let the whole fall en masse to her waist
like some great silken mat. She shook
it out into careless ripples, dishevelled
it a little about her ears. It shadowed
somewhat the bright carmine in her cheeks,
and gave her a forlorn, pathetic appearance,
which she knew added another dart
to her quiver. Also, it would be likely
to impress upon a beholder the fact of
her womanhood of her young womanhood
 another and yet more dangerous
weapon, she knew.

Her footfall was so light he could not
have heard her tread ; his instinct alone
]must have warned him that denser was
at hand. He drew his hands from his
haggard face and started to his feet.

"What is this? What is this?" he
cried in loud, startled tones. " Why
do you pursue me ? Go at once, in
Heaven's name! I have no wish to hurt
you."

Delphine's hand was on his arm,

her dark, beautiful face uplifted to his
ill a moment.

My Wolf," she said sorrowfully, " you
bid me go  where am I to go P You turn
me out of your house in Heaven's name,
but it is not to heaven you would send
me. No, better let me stay here, and
the police come for me and hang me
to please your Judith."

Wolf winced.

You came from somewhere," he said,
but in not quite so firm a tone as before.
'' Whence you came, thither get you back.
No one here will hunt you down."

"No one! Oh, my Wolf!"

No one, I say  no one ! " reiterated
Wolf.

"Not even that white-faced, pale-blooded
girl who, not five minutes ago, came and
stood between us, and threatened you,
my Wolf, with vengeance ? Do you think
she would spare me?"

Wolf made no reply. Delphine went
on :

Now tell me, my Wolf, what think

you has made her play the part she
has : hide herself in the house, hide herself
on the mountain, bring back home a
boy whom no one wanted here ? Think
you it was love for the small boy whom
just, once, twice, three times she had
seen and kissed ? Ah no. It was hatred
of me, my Wolf, because I had out-rivalled
her and won your love. Only that 
nothing else. She has loved you as girls
love for the first time in their lives. I
have seen it  I saw it in her face the
first day I set foot in your house, and I
saw it in her face to-night when she
came in and stood between us ! "

Stop ! " said Wolf with an almost
savage vehemence. " I will not have
such words as these spoken, even out
here in the darkness. Am I altogether
cast in iron ? Can I stand here listening
to your wild talking, and not lose my
reason ? "

Her words affected him in a way she
had not dreamed. It was like showing
a drowning man a coil of good rope

safely stowed away out of his reach ;
or like the last glimpse of the garden
of Eden which Adam caught betwixt
the flaming, shifting swords of the cherubim
as he toiled wearily adown the
dusty, forlorn footway.

Delphine in an instant saw the mistake
she had made, and retrieved it.

"She loves you, my Wolf, and she
hates me for winning you. I must say it;
it is true. But lier love is not the love
I have had to give you. Xo I She would
love you, and keep to you so long as
you were respectable, so long as you
held your place in the county, and did
not break any one of the ten commandments.
But you turn thief, murderer,
villain ! Ah, she will shake you off as
though you were a viper ! ' So far as
you show mercy to yourself so far will
I have none for you ' " (here she mimicked
Judith's voice and manner to the life).
Xo, my friend, Ashen you turn villain, and
are out at elbows, it is to the Dolphins,
not to the Judith, you mus!: go ! "

Wolf was sorely troubled, he sank down
on the seat once more, putting one hand
before his eyes. Yet it was not Delphine's
voice which wrought all this
turmoil and pain in his heart, but rather
the echo of Judith's words : " In so far
as you show yourself mercy, so far will
I have none for you." It was like the
sounding of a true, clear note to a
man who had once been a lover of music,
but who now through physical incapacity
could not touch string nor key.

Delphine drew a little nearer to him
now with each word she spoke.

"Think you, my Wolf," she went on,
that out of love to you, to save you
a pain, that girl would herself do a bad
deed? Not she! Would she have dared,
as I have, everything  everything for
her lover? Ah, my Wolf, she loves in
her own way, but not in mine. Your
Delphine would risk her soul to give the
man she loves a five minutes of pleasure.
She has tried to do it and has failed ! "

Her words ended in a sort of sob ;
VOL. m. 45

she sank down on the seat by his side
as she uttered them. Her warm breath
fanned his cheek, her silk matted hair
somehow swept itself over his shoulder.

Wolf lifted up his face in an agony

Heavens, Delphine ! " he exclaimed
in a voice of horror, " you don't
mean to say you attempted this deed of
wickedness for me  for my sake ? Great
God ! what depths of iniquity I have
dragged you down into." And he groaned
aloud.

"My Wolf, I would do it all over
again tomorrow, even though it failed
all over again," murmured Delphine, laying
her hand softly upon his arm, her head
upon his shoulder.

Hush, hush 1 You cut me to the
heart," groaned Wolf.

In very truth this seemed to the man
the hardest, bitterest blow of all. In his
fiercest self-accusations it had never for
one moment crossed his mind that Delphine's
iniquities might in this way be
laid at his door.

My Wolf, I will say it no more !
I can speak, and I can be silent. You
will see ! Alien she drags me, as she
will, before the police, I will say to them,
'Yes, I tried to do it because I wanted
the house  the land to be all my own.
My Wolf knew nothing of it. He is
innocent ; I am guilty.' You will see ! "

Now, this is nonsense  sheer, contemptible
nonsense ! " said Wolf angrily,
though his hands were gentle enough ashe
freed his arm and shoulder from her
clinging embrace. " I can stand it no
longer, my brains are going. The truth
of it is, Delphine, I am too much shaken
to contend with you, or even talk the
matter over with you. You must simply
do as I tell you ; get away from here
as soon as it is light tomorrow, and
never attempt to see or speak to me
again. You must understand everything
is at an end between us."

My Wolf, I will never leave " you 

never give you up ! "

Delphine, you must go ! " Slowly,

452

distinctly, and with iron force, he spoke
the words.

"My Wolf, if I go, you must go with
me ! " She whispered the words softly,
winningly into his very ear.

Wolf started. A new temptation was
to beset him now.

Delphine's long veil of hair somehow
swept across his breast. She looked
sweetly up into his face.

"My Wolf," she murmured again,
say, what is there to keep you here
now? Your house, your land, will betaken
away from you ; your name made
a byword in the county. Think you
there will be found bishop bold enough
to give you even a living of three hundred
a year ? Are you meaning to go back
to your curacy at the East of London ? "

Wolf drew a long breath.

For Heaven's sake, tempt me no
more, Delphine ! " he implored in an
agonised tone.

Is it a temptation ? It seems to me
deliverance I offer you," she said sweetly.

Let US go away together, my Wolf, this
night, before anyone can stop us. Everything
is swept away from you here, you
have no home  no profession  a tarnished
name! Come away with me to Paris,
Montreal  where you will. I will show
you where to live  how to live. Ah, I
know ! I will sing, and act, and get
money  ah, ever so much. It will be a
life worth living. Come, my Wolf  say
you will come ! " and once more her head
drooped on his shoulder.

'' In so far as you show yourself mercy,
so far I will have none for you." Judith's
voice at that moment seemed to repeat
the words in his very ear. Would she,
so he asked himself, have counselled him
thus to flee from the punishment his own
sin had brought upon him? Would she
not rather have stood in front of him,
and said : " If only by fire your sin can
be purged, stand there and endure the
hottest of the flames."

He rose to his feet, putting Delphine
away from him gently but resolutely.

"I say you must go at daybreak, Delpliine,
and go you must. I will have no
more said on the matter."

At this moment there came a long,
low growl of approaching thunder. The
mountains echoed it, ekeing out the peal
to nearly double its length. There followed
a soft rustling among the boughs
overhead, as though a breeze had risen
up and whispered among the leaves to
warn them of a coming storm.

Delphine clung to him in simple abject
terror.

Oh, my Wolf my Wolf ! " she cried ;
save me, save me ! Ah, the terrible
lightning ! " And as one brilliant flash
played across the sky she hid her face
in his breast, trembling from head to
foot.

"Come into the house," said Wolf;
there is no danger ; " and he tried to
draw her along the path towards the
house.

But she clung to him, impeding his steps,
called him her dear and dearest Wolf,

[67

implored him not to leave her ; besought
him again and again to take care of her.
Whom had she in the world but him,
her own  her very own ? If he forsook
and gave her up, where in the wide
world could she turn for protection ?

And through it all, over it all, flashed
the lightning, crashed the thunder, and
soughed low over their heads a mournful
wind.

ene by one the lights in the Grange
disappeared. No one knew of
Wolfss and Delphine's absence
from the house, save Judith, who had seen
them depart. Mrs. Eeece had been told by
her maid (who was herself under that
impression) that Mr. Wolf had gone to his
room for the night ; and though the old
lady felt not a little sore at heart that he
had not so much as greeted her since his
return, she said to herself that, all things
considered, perhaps it was for the best.
She felt disturbed and agitated after the
terrible anxiety the day had brought. He,
no doubt, felt the same ; and tomorrow
would find them all stronger in body,
clearer in mind, and better able ta look the

mystery, or rather succession of mysteries
which had occurred, in the face.

For that there was a great deal of
mystery behind it all, she was compelled,
howsoever unwillingly, to admit.

Of Bertie's heirship to the estate, of his
kinship to Wolf, she knew nothing. It
seemed to her that Wolf had been most
unnaturally disturbed by the loss of the
child ; she could only trace his anxiety on
Bertie's behalf to a deeper, fonder feeling
for Delphine than she had accredited him
with, and which, to say truth, under the
circumstances not a little surprised her.
Possibly the greatest mystery in the affair
to her mind was Judith's sudden return to
the house, and appearance with little Bertie
in her arms. From Wolf's study she had
gone straight to Mrs. Eeece's room, presenting
herself without one word of explanation.

In reply to all questions, she had simply
said :

"Dear Mrs. Eeece, ask me nothing tonight,
I implore you. To-morrow Wolf
will tell you everything himself."

Then, as little Bertie steadily refused to
be on amicable terms with the old lady,
Judith had thought it best to carry him
off to her own room, where, laid on her
bed, the little fellow very quickly fell fast
asleep ; and, sitting down by the bedside,
she had watched her darling.

To know Judith thoroughly, one must
see her with a child in her arms. A love
for the weak and helpless among God's
creatures was with her at once an instinct
and a passion. Now, as she sat watching
the little sleeping Bertie, she felt  as any
mother might  all in one breath, fierce and
watchful, tender and protective. For him
she had felt willing to risk her life, and
would have done so, had the need arisen,
without a second thought on the matter.
Saved and rescued now, her feeling was
she must devote her life to him. Through
good or ill, through difficulty or danger,
she would do  well, her utmost for him.
And " utmost" with Judith meant, perhaps,
a little more than it does with most
people.

Then the storm had crashed over the
house, and she had gone to the . window
wondering whether Wolf had come in, and
when and how they would meet on the
morrow.

There followed another "riot of feeling."
The " when" mattered but little ; sooner or
later the meeting must come ; the " how"
was the thing that set her heart aching
and quaking. How would he face the
difficulties that beset him ? How would he
comport himself? As penitent or as himself
the wronged one ? In what relationship
would he stand now towards Delphine ?
Was his love for her the true, vital thing
that compels a man to stand by a woman
through sin and disgrace even till the last
hour of his life ; or was it after all but the
flimsy pretence of love, which dissolves
like ice before fire at the first rude shock it
receives.

In all this range of thought it will be
seen she, herself, occupied but a small
space ; a space so small indeed as to be
almost infinitesimal. Her path was clear.

her line of conduct was marked out with
lines sharp as flint could mark it. This
man had never asked her love, but somehow,
without pretence of love-making, he
had won it. There it was, his for ever, for
time and for eternity. Word of love
might never to the end of their lives bespoken
between them, it would make no
difference ; her love had been given once
for all, and could never be withdrawn.
She looked for no result to this love ; she
never for one moment expected that she
and Wolf would stand side by side as man
and wife. No, the only hope her love had
given rise to had been the hope of saving
him from himself; from the evil consequences
of his one departure from the
path of right. She would save the thing
she loved, not that she might possess and
wear it as some precious jewel richly set,
but simply and solely because salvation
meant all that was holy, beautiful, rare,
and worth having to the thing itself, as
opposed to all that was worthless, marred,
dishonourable, distorted.

All this time the storm was steadily
increasing in violence, the wind coming
and going in low, sobbing gusts. It was a
grand sight. Now and again the sharp
turrets and peaks of the grey mountains
stood out clear and distinct in livid light,
while forest and field below lay steeped in
ink-black darkness ; anon the mountains
showed black and dim, while field and
forest were for the moment ablaze with
fleeting flame. As she stood thus surveying
the all-but-supernatural beauty of the
landscape, there came a sudden terrific
flash, which seemed to spend itself on the
garden immediately beneath the window,
lighting up every bowery corner, every
tree, shrub, flower with its scintillating
blaze, and showing to Judith's straining
eyes a sight she would have given worlds
to shut out from them : a tall, dark figure,
with stooping shoulders and bare head,
standing in the gravelled pathway, midway
between the house and the shrubbery, and
holding in his arms, and, as it seemed to
her, close to his heart, a woman clad in

light summer dress, with a long black veil
of hair streaming below her waist.

Judith left the window immediately, and
went back to Bertie's side.

The rest of the night she spent on her
knees.

5w(.,wAD Judith been by Wolfss side at

the moment when the lightning
revealed him to her, she might
have heard him saying to Delphine in
peremptory tones :

Delphine, Delphine, rouse yourself, for
Heaven's sake! How am I to get you to
the house if you cling to me in this
way."

And she might have heard Delphine's
low, sobbing reply :

"Oh, my Wolf, my Wolf, who shall I
cling to if not to you ? "

And then her clinging, her tears, her
piteous exclamations, had redoubled.

Wolf looked all round him despairingly.
The house was still some hundred yards or

SO distant. His burthen was not a heavy
one, but it was nevertheless a difficult and
unmanageable one. Had Delphine lost her
senses he might better have succeeded in
getting her to the house, simply carrying
her with one or two pauses by the way.
As it was, however, what with her changing
and exclamations, and the weakness and
dizziness he felt slowly creeping over him,
the task was beyond him. The terrific
strain he had endured throughout the day,
his long abstinence from food, was
beginning to tell upon him. The man's
soul had been rent and torn till it held
itself together merely by threads and shreds.
His brain seemed whirling ; his legs
staggered under him ; his arms trembled
beneath their load.

He looked right and left of him.
Midway between the house and where he
stood, a little on his right hand, was the
smoking-pavilion, over whose decoration
and furnishing Delphine had expended such
a vast amount of time and thought ; thus
far, possibly, by making a huge. effort, he

might contrive to get her. So, half-leading,
half-carrying, he made the attempt, and
somehow achieved it. He got her under
shelter, he laid her on the couch just
within the door, and himself stood bareheaded
outside, braving the storm. Better
a thousand times, so he said to himself,
risk all Heaven's thunderbolts, than another
half-hour of this brilliant, false woman's
fascinations.

Delphine must have fainted as he laid
her down, otherwise it is inconceivable that
she should have given him even a brief
five minutes' respite from her beseeching
and allurements.

Little by little the storm ebbed, paler
and fainter grew each Hash, more distant
and muffled each peal. It was not, however,
till the darkness began to lift, and grey
dawn to streak the east, that it entirely
subsided.

Delphine had lain, white and motionless,
on her couch, and Wolf had stood outside
the pavilion door throughout the remainder
of that short summer night.

VOL. III. 46

If only one of those grand, bright flashes
of flame had struck him with death as he
stood, he thought, what divine mercy it
would have been ! Yet, so he asked himself,
what right had he to expect mercy,
human or divine? And, again, Juditli's
voice sounded in his ears : '

"In so far as you show mercy to yourself,
so far will I have none for you."

These were the words beyond any other
this man had need to hear. The cries and
beseeching of a weak woman praying him
to repent and atone, would have fallen
unheeded on his ear ; but these stern words
of condemnation seemed to rouse him from
his stupor, shut out all thoughts of self-pity
from his heart, showed him what she
expected of him  what her ideal of repentance
was, Avhose soul naught but the
highest ideals could satisfy.

He watched the great red sun slowly rise
from behind the mountains ; he watched
the grey mists, one by one, creep away like
evil ghosts from field and fen ; he saw,
through a break in the trees which shut

the garden in, the deep green valley filling
with a soft golden light.

One by one he heard throstle an d blackbird
piping to its fellows in the wood a glad
good-morning ; then he went into the
pavilion, and stooping over Delphine, endeavoured
to arouse her.

It is morning now," he said. " Come,
Delphine, rise and go into the house ; you
must get away from here before people
begin to ask questions."

Delphine opened wide her beautiful eyes.

"You send me away! Oh, my Wolf!"

Then she closed them again wearily.

Wolf felt unequal to another struggle.
Little by little his life seemed ebbing out of
him. Yet one final, huge effort he felt
must be made, or he must own himself
baffled, defeated.

Listen, Delphine ! I will tell you, sofar
as I can, what I am going to do, and
you shall judge for yourself whether you
will go or stay," he said, throwing as much
steel into his voice as possible. " First, I
am going to have Bertie's parentage and

462

rights here fully recognised. I shall place
his mother's marriage-certificate and the
other papers you sent me, in the hands of a
London lawyer, who will thoroughly go
through with the matter. More than that,
I intend to throw no veil over the part I
have played in keeping him out of his
inheritance. Before night falls to-day every
man, woman, and child in the county will
know I have been a cheat and a villain.
Now, can you stand that ? "

"My Wolf!" and Delphine in her
amazement raised herself from her recumbent
position, and sat upright on the
couch.

"Do not attempt to argue the matter
with me," he said, his voice increasing in
strength as he went on. " My mind is
made up. No one could move it  not
even Judith ! "

He said the last words with a slow precision.
He intended them to cut her to
the heart. It seemed to him only by a
direct blow he could loosen her arms from
about his neck.

Delphine looked up at him, cold, white,
glittering.

Not even if she knelt at your feet
and hung round your neck, as I did last
night ? " she asked in scornful tones.

She is not likely to do it ; but if she
did entreat it would be for good, not
base ends, and one might save one's soul
by listening to her."

Delphine laughed  not her usual long,
low trill, but a loud clanging, scornful
laugh.

So then you mean to try and save
sour soul by means of Miss Judith's
help ? Go then at once, my friend ; ask
her to finish her good work and marry
you. She'll jump at you, no doubt ; " and
again she laughed.

I would die inch by inch rather than
so insult her," answered Wolf sternly.

So then what is no insult to me would
be an insult to this sweet, pure-minded
young lady?" she queried sharply.

Wolf gave her no reply.

For a minute she sat waiting for it.

Then she rose, went to his side, and laid
her hand upon his arm.

Come, my Wolf," she said, making an
attempt to regain her usual gaiety, " be
honest with me. Since when have you
held so exalted an opinion of this young
lady, that you have looked upon an offer
of marriage as an insult to her?"

Since the very first day I set eyes on
her. It will last as long as I have breath
left in my body."

Then these two stood for a moment
staring at each other with eyes that said
as much as their silence. Words failed
them. As well be dumb as loud in passion !

Wolf was the first to find a voice.

Come, Delphine," he said, moving one
step towards the door, " be reasonable ; take
the only road that is open to you now.
Come into the house, have what refreshment
you need, and take what tidings you like
away with you. The house will soon bestirring
; that means gossip beginning ; and
the sooner you are home again in Canada,
among your own people, the better."

Delphine looked round her with dreary,
dreamy eyes. Another change was passing
over her  real or assumed it would
have been impossible to say. To his
dying day Wolf was unable to divide
what was genuine in this woman from
what was false.

'' Home ! " she repeated, letting her
eyes wander here and there absently. She
made a movement towards the door, looking
out on the fair picture of mountain,
forest, and garden which it framed. " This,
I thought, was to have been my home 
here, I thought, I should live in peace
with my Wolf! It is passed  it was a
dream." She shaded her eyes witli her
hands, then resumed in slower, more
mournful tones: "I go  I say good-bye
to it all ! My fair English home that was
to have been, Adieu ! "

Would you accept it as a home under
its changed conditions ? " asked Wolf
wearily. In good truth he felt worn to
his last extremity now, capable only of
making one grand final effort to get this

woman away from the house before the
hue and cry began.

What ! " she exclaimed with a touch
of her old savage petulance ; " with ]Miss
Judith preaching piety on one side, and
you posing as a penitent on the other '*'
(she gave out her p's as though they were
so many raps from a wooden hammer).
Thank you, one or other of us would
be under the daisies before a week had
passed over our heads." Then she relapsed
once more into a mute dreaminess.

Come, Delphine," urged Wolf again ;
according even to your own showing,
there is no other way." He spoke as a
man might who had taken a narcotic and
was beginning to feel its effects creeping
over him.

There is one other way," said Delphine
in a low, strange tone.

But at this moment, a sudden look of
terror went fleeting over her face. She
grew deathly white, even her lips fading
into a grey neutral tint, her eyes growing
round and staring.

Wolf followed their direction, and saw
through the parted boughs of the trees
which let in the wild, beautiful glimpse of
valley and mountain  a tall, stalwart
stranger with slouched hat and muffled
throat.

The distance was too great to discern
his features, but Wolf thought he recognized
the outlines of the stranger who
had alighted at Pen Cwellyn Station the
day before.

What frightens you ? " he asked Delpliine.
" He is most likely some passing-tourist.
See, he is gone ! Now come,
let me take you back to the house."

She made no further resistance. Her
steps faltered somewhat ; she leaned heavily
on his arm ; she let him take her into the
dining-room and put food before her,
but she put it away untasted, begging
only for a glass of wine. This she drank
eagerly, asking for another and another.
The wine seemed to put a little life into
her ; she smiled up in his face again.

"Now pledge me, my Wolf," she said

gaily, " as I pledge you : ' A happy
future to you ! A long life and a
merry one ! ' Come, my Wolf, fill your
glass ! "

But Wolf would as soon have thought
of drinking healths at a funeral as at
such a repast as this.

Put down your glass," he said sternly.
Go upstairs and put together what
things you mean to take with you  your
jewellery, I mean, you may want it  and
I'll go and rouse up someone to get a
carriage ready for you. You can easily
save the first London train if you make
haste." And he went out of the room ashe
spoke to give the necessary orders.

My Wolf," said Delphine, calling after
him in soft, beseeching tones, " you will
let me drive my ponies down for the last
time P I can tell one of the men at the
station to bring them back."

When, about half an hour afterwards,
Wolf himself brought the ponies round to
the front door ( for he would not let the
man come out of the stables), Delphine

was standing on the terrace waiting for
him, ready equipped for her journey.

Brilliantly beautiful she looked ! Her
eyes were dancing, glancing, flashing,
changing as on the first day he had seen
her ; her cheeks were, perhaps, just a little
more flushed than was their wont ; her lips
as coral-red, and smiling as when on the
day of their betrothal she had lifted them
up to his and said : " Seal our vows with
one little kiss, oh, my Wolf! " She was as
elaborately and daintily dressed as though
she were starting for a royal garden-party
or wedding ete, instead of a journey to
London. Her favourite colours of cream
and damask-red were blended and divided
about her dress and hat with delicate
harmonious effect, her long cream gloves
looking more suited to clasp a partner's
hand in a valse than to drive a troublesome
pair of fiery little ponies down a
steep, rocky road.

Have you all you want  money, everything
? " he asked, as he handed her into
the carriage.

"Everything but one," she answered
gaily ; " that you only can give me. Come,
my Wolf, give me one kiss before we part
for ever ! "

Even as she spoke she stooped over the
side of the carriage and impressed upon
his lips one long, light kiss.

There seemed to Wolf an odd, indescribable
odour about her lips.

In another moment she was gone, fleeting
alone at what seemed to him, a wild,
reckless speed, throwing him one bright,
laughing, defiant look, as she passed through
the Grates of the Gramme.

Outside, for a second she reined up her
ponies. Wolf sprang forward, thinking
something possibly had gone wrong with
their harness But no ; it was only to
speak to a man who stood there in low-crowned,
slouching hat, and who, to Wolfss
intense surprise, swung himself into the
carriage alongside of her, and on they
went at as wild, wind-like speed as before.

Wolf drew a long weary sigh as they
disappeared in the grey distance. Then

lie went back to the house, up to his own
room, and sank down on his bed utterly-spent,
mentally and physically. One hour
at least of sleep he felt he must have,
before he could face the work which that
day would bring him to do.

As he turned wearily, hiding his face
in his pillows, a thrush perched upon his
window-sill burst suddenly into a glad,
full-throated song.

Somehow it sounded in his tired ears
like a Te Deem Laudanum.

CHAPTEE Xiii.

IUNDAY morning. Church-bells sounding
over all the land, households
by the score gathering themselves
together to start for their divers Lions.
A family of lour assembled in the hall of
the old Grange : a blind old lady with a
somewhat enquiring, anxious look on her
well-featured face, which seemed to say :
' Well, I suppose I shall know all in good
time ; but I shall be uncommonly glad
when the good time comes ; " a small boy of
four or five, fragile, and fair haired as a
gold-winged fairy ; a young girl with pale
face and dark eyes, that looked weary and
wistful ; a tall man, deathly white, with
rigid muscles and firm-set mouth, which
seemed to betoken a task set before him 

a something to be done that needed a clear
brain, an iron will.

Not a trace of last night's storm remained,
save that, if possible, the whole
landscape of mountain and glen shone out
a little more golden-green than its wont.
There was a look of wind-blown clearness
about it which threw into bold relief every
distant peak or jutting crag.

There seemed, too, to lurk a latent
fragrance in the air, as though the scent,
beaten out of the flowers by over-night's
storm, was left behind to tell the tale of its
power and grandeur.

Party after party of church-goers went
toiling along the steep road to Llanrhaiadr,
saying one to another how terrific the
tempest of last night had been, and what
a mercy it was that the poor little orphan
boy at the Grange had been found and
brought home before it broke over the
mountains.

All sorts of odd stories, anent the finding
of little Bertie, were by this time afloat in
the neighbourhood, each person having a

theory of his own on the matter, which he
affirmed with all the doggedness, and nota
little of the exaggerative power, of the
Welsh peasant. Of the Eeece household
servants, not a soul save Bryce knew the
real truth, and she was far too wary to
commit herself on the matter. The child
was saved, that was all she cared
about ; Miss Judith would, she knew, see
that he had his rights, now that wicked
aunt of his was off the scene. If Mr. Wolf
were wise, he would, of course, leave the
house as soon as possible ; but there, after
all, that was his business, not hers.

Many were the hearty greetings little
Bertie had as he drove along to church that
Sunday morning, in fact he went bareheaded
nearly all the way, and almost
kissed the tips of his little fingers off
returning the salutations of old, young,
and middle-aged.

They mustered a somewhat strong party
from the Grange. Wolf had said at breakfast
that morning that he wished every
soul in the house to be present at the

eleven o'clock service, and that he had a
particular reason for wishing it. There
had consequently been a more vigorous
stampede than usual towards the parish
church, and a solitary kitchen-maid, and
equally lone stable-boy, remained the only
representatives of domestic economy at
Plasy-y-Coed.

It seemed a long, silent drive to Judith
that morning. Mrs. Eeece, even, appeared
to have lost her ordinary inclination for
asking and answering questions. Whether
it was the shadow of coming or of past
events which had fallen upon her she knew
not, but certain it was her usually serene
brow was clouded, her usually active lips
were at rest.

As for Wolf, not once during the three
miles' drive did he open his lips. In
silence he handed his mother and Judith
into the carriage, then leaned back in his
place with frowning, knotted brow, and
eyes that looked all absorbed and faraway
; in silence he handed them out of
the carriage and followed them into the
VOL. ni. 47

church ; then, to Judith's surprise, instead
of taking his usual place in the pew, he
went at once into the vestry.

Here he found the worthy rector already
robed and about to enter his reading-desk.
He shook hands warmly with Wolf.

"You will hardly believe it," he said,
but I have only this morning heard of
the terrible anxiety you have been suffering
at Plas-y-Coed. I was away from home
all yesterday. I returned too late last
night for rumours to reach me. This morning
I was told of the loss and the finding
of the child in one breath. Otherwise, you
may be sure, I should have ridden over to
offer my services. You must tell me all
about it after service, for all sorts of queer
stories are flying about the place."

Wolf thanked him briefly.

I have a favour to beg of you," he then
went on to say. " You have frequently
asked me to occupy your pulpit. I shall
])e very glad if you will allow me to do so
this mornings."

The rector gladly consented,  thinking

to himself that possibly Wolf was awakening
at last to the responsibilities of his
position in the neighbourhood, and was
anxious, it might be, to take his place
among his neighbours, not only as a rich
land-owner, but as an active, zealous
clergyman.

When Judith saw Wolf seat himself
within the altar-rails, her heart died within
her. What did it mean  what could it
mean ? He could not surely  no, she
would not let herself think that. It would
be too dreadful ! He had some definite
reason, no doubt, for what he was doing ;
he had something to say to the congregation
he thought worth saying, some good
advice to give  nothing more.

He had something to say to the congregation,
and he had no sooner mounted the
pulpit and given out his text than she
knew what it was, word for word, as
though she could read it written in his
brain. Self-pilloried he meant to stand
there and acknowledge his sin to the
world ! It was brave, like himself ; it was

472

fiercely defiant, like himself ; it was,
perhaps, the only sort of repentance and
atonement a man of his temperament was
capable of, a repentance sincere and
thorough, no doubt, but withal without
so much as one grain of Christian humility
in it.

For one moment before he gave out his
text Wolf stood silent in the pulpit surveying
the congregation. As usual, the small
church was well filled. There were Lord
and Lady Kuthlyn, with their family, in
their places, the lieutenant of the county
and his family in theirs, and Madoxes,
and Howels, Wynne, and Williams might
be numbered by the score.

The man's face was ashen grey as that of
a corpse, his muscles seemed stiff and rigid
as though life had 2one out of them ; one

CO '

knotted vein stood out on his forehead ;
his eyes gleamed with something more than
their usual brightness ; the hish lio-ht in
which he stood threw into prominence his
blanched hair, his furrowed brow, the
lines which care, not age, had marked

about this mouth. Some of those who saw
him that mornings in their thoughts mifht
have likened him to a Thomas a Beckett
thundering forth a Pope's anathema, but
not one to a Paul or a John the Divine.

In the pulpit Wolf had ever had a
strong, clear voice, an arresting, an
assertive voice  the voice not of a controversialist,
a reasoner who is willing to
allow that a very fair case may be made
out for the other side, but rather that of a
dogmatist  a judge, a man given to pronouncing
final judgments from which
there was no appeal. His voice had never
in his best days been firmer or clearer than
it was now when he opened his Bible, and
read out his text from the fifty-first Psalm :
I acknowledge my offences, and my sin is
ever before me."

He read it cut once, looking straight in
front of him ; he read it a second time,
looking to his right hand  a third time,
turning to his left.

Then without preamble of any sort
he began his sermon, or rather what was

to stand in guise of sermon to the congregation
that day.

The story of a sinner," it might have
been called, for such it was from beginning
to end.

Not to a scriptural sinner, nor yet to
an heroic sinner do I wish to direct your
attention to-day," he said in slightly
scornful tones, " but to a most commonplace
specimen of a commonplace class  the
class who for a mess of pottage will sell
what little soul they happen to possess,
who at the shrine of Mammon are willing
to sacrifice honour, honesty, truth, and
religion."

And then he went on to tell them in
the third person, as though that of a
stranger, the story of his own life from
those old early days of poverty and hardship
onwards to that day, extenuating
naught, exaggerating naught, naught omitting",
naught slurrino- over.

It took a long time to tell. He spoke
slowly ; he made long pauses between
his sentences  pauses during which the



congregation, looking one at the other,
wondered of whom he spoke, scarcely
daring, even in their thoughts, to  the
suspicion of the course of crime he detailed
on the minister of God who stood therein
the pulpit addressing them.

He apologised somewhat for the allusion
to his early life of poverty.

You must not think this is in any sort
intended as a palliation of this man's
crime later on. I tell you this portion
of his history simply because without it
I could not give you a perfect picture
of the man. If you take it as an extenuation
of his later life you will make
a mistake. It is not so intended ; you
must not so take it."

On Delphine's share in the evil-doing,
her Aviles and tempting, he touched but
lightly  as lightly as was consistent with
the continuity of the narrative. He spoke
of a letter containing an evil offer  an
offer of concealing the existence of an
heir to property which had lately come
to this man, and then dwelt at length

and fully on the deliberate manner in
which he had closed with it ; the deliberate
course of concealment and fraud he
had pursued even when, later on, the
young heir was committed to Ins care
and protection.

And then he hinted at an attempt which
had been made to murder this young heir,
Adhere and how he did not think it necessary
to relate, for it must be fresh in all
their minds at that moment, made, as it
was, in their very midst, only two days
ago.

Here he made a long pause. It might
have been that the recollection of those
awful hours of suspense nearly overcame
him ; it might have been, in good truth,
that, stupendous as was this man's
strength of will and purpose, slider physical
weakness was beginning to sap both.

There came a visible stir and movement
among the congregation as he thus
paused. The interest  in the narration
had by this time passed through its
preliminary stage of curiosity, and had

become painful  intense. Juditli felt as
though sons had passed over her head
since she had entered that little church
not much more than an hour alio. Her
heart thrilled with every word he uttered,
her throat felt choking, her brain went
round, as he thus dealt himself blow
after blow, each one harder than the
last. She longed to stand up and cry
aloud in the congregation that there vas
a side to this man's character which he
had not shown to them, and of which
they knew nothings, and that, strong as
]ie had been for evil, so strong was he
for good.

And Mrs. Eeece, too, felt herself suddenly
grow aged, spiritless, incapable,
as she sat there listening to these terrible
revelations  sat with face as immobile
and marble-white as the one that looked
out of the pulpit, and with will as iron
as Wolf's own, suppressing every sign of
emotion even to a quiver of her eyelid,
that might show her heart was being
stabbed in a thous-and places.

Wolfss concluding sentences may be
given word for word.

You will ask me," he said, looking
round on the people with an eye that
would not have quailed before the sternest
there, and in a voice which, spite of
its failings force, had a something? of
defiance in it  " you will ask me,
naturally enough, how does this man's
history concern us  what has it to do
with us ? This is how it has to do with
you, this is how it concerns you, each
one as individuals of a community. A
plague-spot has somehow shown itself
among you  it must be cleansed away.
A fraud and criminal act has been done
in your very midst, it must be searched
out and punished. One among you
stands up a greater criminal than ever
had sentence of penal servitude read over
his head  he must be brought before a
bar of justice. It rests with you, fathers
of families, magistrates and administrators
of justice in the county to do this.

"I do not need to tell you who this

man is nor where he lives. Nathan-like
already your hearts have, I know, turned
towards me saying, 'Thou art the man'"
And then he sat down, and everyone felt
the discourse had fitly come to an end, and
were rio-ht thankful that it had. Each

o

one looked into another's face, drawing a
long, deep breath. The old rector got U2>
from his chair, and in a shaking voice, and
with tears running down his cheeks, concluded
the service, for Wolf made no
attempt to do so. He remained seated in
the pulpit till the benediction had been pronounced;
then, as the congregation stirred
and prepared to depart, he rose, left the
'pulpit, paused at the foot of the stairs to
deposit his surplice in the verger's hands,,
went through the very midst of the people
straight to his own carriage, where Juditli
and Mrs. Eeece were already seated.

One and another looked after him.

He is callous and stony-hearted," said
one.

He is broken-spirited and half-dazed""
said another.

Let him alone," said a third. " God
has judged him. See, he has death written
on his face."

In silence, as they had driven to the
church, so Wolf and his party drove
back along that weary three and a half
miles of road. It niio-ht have been a
funeral-car they sat in, those three, for
their white faces, their bowed heads, and
weary, strained eyes, to which the blessed
balm of tears had not yet been vouchsafed.

At the gates of the Grange, an unaccustomed
sight greeted them  a small knot of
people gathered together, evidently awaiting
their return.

A man came out of the lodge, as they
drew up for the gates to be opened, with a
strange story to tell.

He was a police superintendent, and
stated that he had come over from Pen
Cwellyn, and wished to speak with Mr.
Eeece.

Wolf jumped out of the carriage. What
horror was to greet his ears now ?

The man looked at the ladies ; Wolf took

the hint, and led the way towards the
house, the man, in the meantime, telling
this stores

A terrible accident had occurred that
morning, or rather event, for circumstances
attending it showed such evident design and
forethought that accident it could scarcely
be called. A lady and gentleman had,
with carriage and ponies, been precipitated
over the Pen Cwellyn falls, a height of
some sixty feet or so. Their bodies had been
found fearfully mutilated at the base of the
jagged rocks, and had been recognised 
the lady's as that of a late visitor at the
Grange, the man's as that of a stranger
who had recently put up at the Pen
Cwellyn Inn.

Wolf reeled, sick and faint, against the
rough trunk of a big elm-tree near which
they stood. This was indeed an awful
epilogue to the drama which the past two
years had seen played out.

ES. EEECE and Judith saw but
 little of Wolf that Sunday or
the day following. All through
that night a light came streaming from
his study-window, making a square yellow
patch on the lawn beneath, but never a
sound came from the room, not so much
as the crumpling of paper, or rustling of
leaves.

No one dared disturb him in this solitude
and sorrow, each one rightly feeling that
intrusion at such a time would have been
an impertinence. Food was taken to him
from time to time, and Mrs. Eeece sent one
brief message, asking him if he would go to
her for a few minutes, to which he wrote
back one brief reply :

Not to-night, mother  tomorrow."

On the morrow things went on much the
same way, save that an intimation from the
county coroner was received by Wolf,
stating that the inquest on the bodies found
below Pen Cwellyn falls would take place
that day, and requesting his presence as a
witness.

This inquest, of necessity a dismal affair,
brought to light so many curious circumstances
connected with one of the deceased
persons that an adjournment was asked
for and granted in order that a jost-mortem
examination might be performed. This examination
proved beyond doubt that the
lady had been so bent on death that she
had taken poison before starting on her
last reckless drive, and that the poison
must have begun to act just before, or at
the time she reached Pen Cwellyn falls.

With respect to this drive, some singular
facts transpired. The lodge-keeper at the
Grange deposed to hearing the sounds of
wheels early on Sunday morning, and
wondering who could be about at that time.

peeped out through the blinds, and saw
Mr. Eeece opening the gates for Miss Pier-point
to drive through. It struck her as
being strange and unusual, and she went
into the next room, whose window looked
down the road, and saw Miss Pierpoint
suddenly pull up, and say something to a
man waiting there. He immediately
jumped into the carriage beside her, and
the two drove away down the Pen Cwellyn
road.

Wolfss evidence at this point corroborated
the woman's testimony.

Another witness  a lad driving some
cattle to a field  deposed that at a turn
in a narrow lane the carriage and ponies
came suddenly upon him. The cattle were
straggling, and obstructed the road, and
the lady with not a little difficulty pulled
up the ponies, who were going at a very
rapid pace. The man who sat next the
lady offered to take the reins, in fact, urged
upon her to give them up to him, whereupon
the lady replied :

My friend, they wouldn't stand your

touch ; you would pull at their mouths as
you pulled at your ropes on board ship,
and they would go mad  just."

The evidence of the last witness, however,
was of the most importance. He was
a night-keeper on Lord Euthlyn's preserves,
and was going home to his breakfast when
he heard a carriage coming along at a
tremendous pace down the Pen Cwellyn
road. He thought at first that the ponies
had taken fright and bolted, but when they
came nearer he saw that the lady had them
well in hand, and was urging them on with
light touches of the whip and a coaxing
"So ho! so ho?" To his great surprise,
she suddenly and sharply turned them round
the corner out of the high road and down
a narrow, steep way which led straight
to the falls. He was himself standing at
the corner of this narrow road, and heard
the man who sat with her in the carriage
make some remark, to which the lady
replied : " My friend, it is a short cut ; "
and as she spoke she once more touched
up the ponies with the whip, and they
VOL. in. 48

went like the wind, tearing down the steep
lane. The lady looked, he thought, nearly
as wild as the ponies, and she laughed a
long, low laugh as she spoke which was not
pleasant. He was near enough to see that
her eyes were very bright and her cheeks
ver) red.

It all struck him as being strange, and
he waited at the corner of the turning to
see what happened next. The lane was
perfectly straight, he could see right down
it to where it suddenly overlapped the falls ;
a narrow footway turning to the left being
here the only outlet to the path. On and
on went the ponies ; he expected to see
them slacken, and the lady and gentleman
alight to view the falls ; instead of that she
seemed to be still urging them on, till at
last the little creatures were evidently past
control, and had bolted. Then he saw
the man stand up in the carriage, and
snatch at the reins, he saw the horses rear
violently on the very edge of the rock,
and then in another moment all had disappeared.


He could not bring himself alone to face
the terrible sight which he knew must lie
at the base of the cliffs, so turned back and
went to Pen Cwellyn, and gave notice to
the police.

This was all the evidence (with collateral
corroboration) needed to prove the identity
of the deceased persons, and the cause of
their deaths. A suicide and a murder
most undoubtedly it was.

Delphine's room and boxes left behind
at the Grange were in due course searched,
and the scent-case containing three bottles
was produced. One of these held chloral,
a second a deadly poison, a third a poison
not less sure, but slower in its effects. Of
this last, no doubt, Delphine, to doubly
ensure her own death, had partaken before
she set off on her mad quest of vengeance.

Both bodies were buried in Llanrhaiadr
churchyard in separate graves. The man's
marked only by a grassy mound, Delphine's
with a headstone carved with her initials,
D. P. ; this erected by Wolf's orders. He
could not forget that he and this woman

482

had once clasped hands as ]betrothed
lovers.

When the news of this terrible event
reached Canada sundry details respecting
Delphine and Olivettete Pierpoint were
brought to light, and published in the
public journals there. It may be as well
to give them in this place.

Of the early parentage of these women
little was known, save that their father was
given to frequenting low cafes in the slums
of Montreal. Their mother was supposed
to be French, for both children spoke their
EncUsh with a strong French flavour, a
flavour which in later years Olivettete
dropped, but Delphine cultivated and retained.
Both these children were of
remarkable beauty and great intelligence,
and thus attracted the attention of the
manager of a low class theatre, who,
among other aliases, bore that of Phil,
or Philip Munday. This man conceived
the idea of forming  a trio of beautiful
children, who should make part of a
travelling company, and pose in the

interludes as Graces, Fates, or what you
will.

One child, a little orphan called Bertha,
he had already secured, Delphine and
Olivettete eventually fell into his clutches,
he, no doubt, making it greatly to the
father's advantage to hand the children
over to him. It did not appear at anytime
that he treated these children with
any special or intentional brutality ; they
were naturally dragged to his level, which,
to says truth, was a low one. As the
Three Graces," afterwards as " The
Fates," and last of all as "The Sirens,"
these girls made the tour of Canada and
the States, gaining some little celebrity,
and putting not a little money into Sunday's
pocket. As time went on, however,
and the girls grew to womanhood, he began
to find them somewhat assertive and unmanageable.
They would, strange to say,
choose lovers for themselves, also they
occasionally accepted engagements without
deference to his opinion, and Bertha, the
eldest of the three, at last entirely threw

over his authority by eloping with Bernard
Eeece in his yacht, and persuading Delphine
to accompany her. The man Sunday
felt this blow doubly, first in his
pocket, for forthwith his travelling company,
bereft of these brilliant actresses,
collapsed, and secondly in his affections,
for of late he had posed as the accepted
lover of Delphine. From this time forth
he led a downward career, figuring in all
sorts of doubtful vocations with a more
than doubtful success. As for Delphine,
her introduction to the refinements of life
on board Bernard's yacht quickly cured
her of all taste for Munday's society, and
awoke in her a vast ambition to secure for
herself some of the good things which were
showered with a lavish hand on Bertha.
Bernard's early death so quickly followed
by Bertha's, their child, being left unprotected
and unacknowledged on her hands,
gave her the means in some sort of realising
her wild schemes.

She came to Europe. Her tale has been
told.

rHE inquest and funeral in all 
copied five days of that eventful
week. A wearying, harassing
five days they were to all concerned  a
five days that seemed to have compressed
into them the anxiety, the anguish, the
suspense of at least five sears. For suspense
prolonged, never for one instant
lifted, was the one terrible feature of
those terrible five days, at least to Judith
and Mrs. Eeece ; what Wolf thought or
felt was not easy to get at.

Day after day these two women rose
from their beds with one thought in their
minds : " What will happen before we lie
down here again to-night ? "

How far Wolf lead made himself amenable

to the laws of the land they did
not know, nor how far the county magnates
might feel inclined to put those
laws in force against him. But they
never saw messenger coming up the
avenue, nor heard the sound of stranger's
voice in the hall, without saying to
themselves : "It has come now. It is
Wolf they are seeking."

Judith began to feel herself growing old
in those days ; Mrs. Eeece laid aside her
knitting and took to readings her Bible a
great deal. It was one with raised characters,
specially procured for htr by
Wolf.

The county magnates, however, showed
no sign of moving in the matter, though
no doubt they talked it well over between
themselves and said each to the other
that it was a crying shame that such a
crime as that should go unpunished ; the
man was a self-confessed criminal, someone
ought to interfere for the protection of
the child ; the bishop ought, at least, to
be written to, to inhibit the man ; and

then, no doubt, they shrugged their
shoulders and went home to their dinners,
each one saying to himself it wasn't exactly
his business, and he didn't care to bethe
first to move in the matter.

Some or other of these Welsh squires
met Wolf almost daily while the inquest
was going on ; they used to look somewhat
askance at him, and no doubt would have
shunned him, had it not been something
of an impossibility to shun a man who
makes no advances to you, who persistently
in a room sits as far off from
every one as possible, and never opens his
lips save when he is pointedly addressed.

What the man himself, during those
days, thought, felt, suffered, no one ever
knew, for he took no one into his confidence.
He rode over to Pen Cwellyn
daily to attend the inquest, answering
every question put to him in a dry, hard
voice, which seemed to those who heard
him to betoken either a callous heart ora
torpid brain. On one point only did
he observe a strict reticence, positively

declining to satisfy any one's curiosity.
This was with reference to Delphine's
attempted murder of Bertie, when
incidentally alluded to in the course of the
inquest. How it came to his knowledge,
who was his informant, he declined to
state. No good end could be now served
by his supplying information on the matter.
The child was safe, the intended
murderess had met her doom. So far ashe
was concerned, the whole thing was a
sealed book, and though whispers and
rumours were rife in many a household
throughout the county, no one gave affirmation
or denial to them, and a sealed
book it remained.

When Wolf came back from Pen
Cwellyn each day late in the afternoon,
he used to go straight to his study, and
there remain till nightfall, and the rest
of the household had gone to their
rooms. Judith or Mrs. Keene rarely set
eyes on him ; no one knew when he
rose in the morning, nor when he went
to bed at night. His study-door was

always shut, and lie denied himself to
all enquirers. It is true he accorded to his
mother the interview she had begged, but
it might as well have been refused, for
all the gratification she got out of it.

As she said pathetically to Judith afterwards
:

"My dear, we were like strangers to
each other ; we were simply miles apart.
He was politeness itself to me, gentle 
for him, that is  but I would far sooner
have had an ounce or two of his roughness
and bad temper, and felt all the
time he was my own son. He put all
my questions on one side, begged me not
to allude to the past, asked me if I
wanted anything, said he would send
Phoebe to me, and then went away and
left me. My own belief is," and here her
quavering voice sank to a whisper, " that
his brain is failing him  little by little,
my dear, but only too surely."

And Judith, thinking over all that this
man had gone through, and was enduring
now, said to herself:

What wonder was it if his brain did
fail him?"

Surely never since the days when
Samson Agonies laded himself with
the gates of the city of Gaza, had living
man sought to bear alone and unaided so
terrible a burthen !

How would it end ? The thought oppressed
her beyond endurance morning,
noon, and night. Sometimes when lie
watched him riding away to Pen Cwellyn
down the avenue in the bright June sunshine,
looking white, forlorn, preoccupied,
a terror would rise up in her heart lest
he should never come back again. The
feeling grew upon her day by day. What
plans could he be forming in his brain
for the years to come ? or was he in
very truth so brain-sick, so time-tired,
that he lacked power to form plans of
any sort, and was going to let himself
drift hither, thither, like straw or dead
leaf upon a whirling stream?

Aain and again did his own words,
spoken in that liard, metallic voice of

his on that terrible morning when he
stood self-pilloried in the little parish
church, come back to her, and re-reiterate
themselves in her brain.

All that goes to make youth or even
middle-life is lacking to this man," he
had said. " Hope is dead, faith, too, in
God, in man, in himself. He has no eye
for the beauty in the world around him ;
no ear for the music that holy voices,
happy voices are for ever making the
universe through. He has no brain to
give to thought or study ; no heart for
human love ; no soul for prayer or praise.
What more can be wanted to complete a
picture of cheerless, joyless old age P

What more, indeed ! And the man not
yet in the prime of his manhood ! It was
too awful to think of him seeing himself
thus as it were in a clear, faithful mirror,
and going his way saying : " It is Kismet
thus it must be."

There is a time to speak, and a time
to keep silence." Judith felt that her
time for keeping silence must be drawing

to a close, that her lips could not much
longer remain sealed, for there was that
in her heart which must be put into
words.

When the Friday of that week came
she watched him riding away to Llanr-
haiadr churchyard to attend Delphine's
funeral. Others who were there told her
afterwards that bare-headed he stood
beside the open grave like some marble
statue throughout the whole service, but
that not once did he bow his head or
his lips utter an Amen.

She watched him ridings back late in
the evening slowly, wearily, like a man
whose evening hymn is, " Thank God, my
work is over, for there is not left in me
strength for another hour of toil." His
head was stooped on his breast, the reins
lay loosely in one hand, the other occasionally
shaded his eyes, or hung limply
by his side. He made no effort to
guide his horse, he passed the man who
stood there waiting for him to dismount,
and let the animal take this own wav to

the stables. Afterwards lie heard him
enter the house with his usual slow,
flagging step, then almost immediately
the study door was shut heavily.

Judith's mind was made up. She went
downstairs, ordered wine and food to be
brought to her on a tray, and herself
took it to Wolfss door, knocking and
asking if she might come in.

He knew her voice in an instant, and
immediately himself opened the door.

Wh}, what is this ? " he exclaimed,
taking the tray out of her hands and
carrying it into the room ; " what does
it mean, Judith ? "

It means," she replied firmly, " that
you must eat and drink, for you have
need of food. Sit down, I mean to wait
upon you ; " and she drew a chair forward
for him, and placed the tray in front of him.

He obeyed her like a little child almost,
looking about him meantime somewhat
absently and dreamily. He put the meat
away from him, however, taking only the
bread and wine which she offered.

See Judith," he said, " it is a sacrament
to me." And in good truth a sacramental
feast it seemed to both in its silence and
solemnity.

When he had finished he leaned back
in his chair languidly ; he looked like a
man wearying for sleep and rest, which
for some reason he dared not take.

Why not ? " said Judith gently. " Lie
down and rest ; I am sure you are worn
out."

Iter voice seemed to recall his drowsy
senses. He pulled himself together and
rose from his chair, making a visible effort
to do so.

"Will you go out with me, Judith, this
evening, into the woods, it is not very late ?
You would not be afraid, would you ? "
he said.

He made the request humbly, diffidently.
Judith mentally compared his manner of
asking now with the peremptory '' Come
into the woods " he was wont at one time
to address to her.

She hesitated only a moment. .

Are you fit to go out this evening ? "
she asked, " after all the fatigue you have
been through to-day ? "

His reply was another question : " Are
you afraid to trust yourself with me,
Judith ? " It was spoken humbly, diffidently,
as before.

It cut Judith to the heart. It seemed to
say, "Now that my infamy is blazoned
abroad in the world, a young and innocent
girl may well hesitate to be seen in my
company."

"Afraid? No! I will fetch my hat
at* once ! " was her indignant rejoinder,
and forthwith she departed.

When she came downstairs. Wolf was
waiting for her at the hall-door. They
went out through the garden, thence into
the fields, thence into the woods beyond,
almost in silence.

The sun had only just sunk behind the
mountains, a shifting, golden haze yet filled
the glen, and hung in patches on the
mountain-side ; but here, in the woods, all
was solemn, twilight dimness ; green was
VOL. m. 49

fading into grey ; bird's notes were hushing-and
ending in low, soft trills. There was a
distant cooing of some sleepy wood-pigeon,
a far-away sound of burning insect or
twisting bat. That was all. As they made
their way through the tangle of brushwood,
stooping under the low-growing bows of
sycamore and birch, the place seemed to
Judith solemn, sweet, and holy as the aisle
of a church.

Wolf walked on a little ahead, stamping
down, here and there, a tall thistle, and
carefully clearing her path of bramble and
briar, yet, so it seemed to her, with such
feeble, languid hands, and eyes so inward
and, withal, so far away, one could fancy
he was looking at strange sights in another
world.

Judith felt somehow spellbound, as
though her lips had been touched with an
enchanter's wand, and power to part them
failed her. On and on in silence she
followed him ; where he led she felt she
must go, though it were to the nethermost
irulf to the souls of the lost.

At the edge of St. Govan's stream he
paused for the first time, Something had
whispered to her that he would lead her
here ; her thoughts flew to the first walk
they had taken together now so long ago,
and the desperate eager questions he had
put to her about the possibility of an
erring soul achieving salvation. Was this
also in his thoughts, she wondered, and
would he  did he mean in this place to
repeat his old vehement questions ?

His first words, however, showed that
another, not himself, filled his thoughts
now.

Judith," he said in quiet dreamy tones,
that had not in them the faintest echo of
his old abrupt peremptoriness, " my mother
is old and feeble now ; I want you to
promise me that, in the days to come, you
will think of her, and take care of her."

Judith felt greatly troubled, she scarce
knew why.

"To the end of my life," she answered

with odd catching of her breath, " she

shall be as my own mother."

49 2

Thank you," was all he said in reply.
Then on he went once more, turning sharply
to his left hand and following now the
upward course of the stream.

On she went after him ; the sparkling
rivulet narrowed and rippled, and widened
again, and then dashed itself in a miniature
cascade over mossy stones. Quieter and
darker grew the woods around them,
greyer and dimmer showed the patches of
sky here, there, through the arching boughs
overhead.

They had now almost reached the foot of
the mountains ; the steep treacherous path
which Delphine had cajoled the little Bertie
to mount was about a hundred yards or soin
front of them. It was a place of dreary
memories. Judith thought with a shudder
of the terrible hours she had passed
there.

Wolfss voice was even quieter and more
weary than before, as he asked a second
question :

"1 know," he said, "you will take care
of little Bertie. I need not ask you to do

that ; but will you think of Oscar too 
sometimes ? "

Judith, with an effort, steadied her voice
to answer in the lowest of tones :

Bertie shall be to me as my own child,
Oscar, as my own brother."

And for the life of her she could not
divest herself of the feeling that she was
talking to a man in a trance, who was
seeing shorts that were veiled from her
eye, hearing sounds that her dulled senses
could not receive.

Wolf looked up dreamily, wearily, at
the beetling mountains, dun-grey now in
the fast-fading light.

"I want to be alone, Judith," he said,
speaking like a tired child whose powers
have been overtaxed with a day of toil.
I think if I went up those mountains I
might perhaps be able to to pray."

He said the last word hesitatingly and
almost in a whisper.

Judith started, looking up in his face ; it
showed ashen and faded as the twilight
itself. The words of Christ to His disciples,

Tarry ye here, while I go and pray
yonder," came into her head. It might
be easier to pray alone on a mountain-side
than in a deep wooded glen.

She seated herself on a rough mossy
stone.

I will wait here till you come back,"
she said quietly, folding her hands in
her lap.

He made no reply. He gave her one
long, lingering, dreamy look, and then
slowly and wearily began to mount the
steep path.

Her eyes followed him, step by step,
as he went. Faint and fainter sounded
his footfall ; dim and dimmer showed his
black, stooping figure against the grey sky,
until at length he rounded the narrow
ledge of the upward way where grew
those treacherous trees in which Bertie
had so nearly met his doom, and disappeared
from her sight.

Patiently and with clasped hands she
waited his return.

The air began to blow chill and damp,

a low breeze began to sigh among the
larches. The night-clouds began to creep
up from the horizon, a ghostlike mist
seemed to hang between the sycamores,
and spread itself over the running
stream.

And suddenly as with electric force
another thought flashed into her brain 
of Moses, when he had finished his work
and said " good-bye " to his countrymen,
going up a solitary mountain-side alone
in solemn grandeur to die.

She sprang to her feet, a sudden,
awful terror seizing her heart.

"Oh, Wolf, Wolf, Wolf!" she cried
passionately, stretching out her arms
towards the rough, blue crags. " Come
back, come back ! "

But only the mountains and forest
echoed her wild cry through the gathering
gloom : " Wolf, Wolf, come back ! "

Then, " at one stride came the dark."

pUE new years in succession have
gjl been born, have flourished, have
died, and been buried by their successors
under heaps of snow since Wolf and
Judith looked their last at each other at
the foot of the Llanniswth mountains,
and lo ! now a fifth with laggard ancient
feet is going to his death-bed, but never
a word of Wolf Eeece yet !

It is now a thing of the past how
Judith and Mrs. Eeece had sought him
the country through ; how they had
offered rewards for any scrap of tidings
of him if living, of his body if dead ;
how, from time to time, their hearts had
been rent and torn by scares and rumours ;
how they had been new and again lifted

to the pinnacle of false hopes only to
be once more dashed to the depths of
despair ; how Judith had herself scoured
the mountains from north to south, how
she and Mrs. Eeece had together posted
from town to town, from village to
village, all through North Wales, seeking
news of him ; how they had joined
hands in prayer, praying God to let them
know the worst, and end their awful
suspense ; how they had wept on each
other's necks as, this prayer denied
them, they had risen up and faced the
dreary days once more ; how, at length,
with bowed head and wan face they
had gone about the house trying to stamp
out of their hearts alike hope, expectation,
or despair.

All this is now a thing of the past ;
whatever else of good or bad the hours
may have in store for them, this, with
its intermittent hopes and numbness of
despair can never be given them to live
through again.

During these five years so nearly run

out, time, the great scene-shifter, has
done his work nimbly, deftly, as of yore.
And death, that silent footed stage-manager,
has followed in his wake, changing
the dramas, and calling now this actor,
now that, from off the stage ; dismissing
here one who played a chief part, there,
one who was little more than a figurante ;
here one who was a very veteran in his
art, there one who was scarcely even a
debutante.

Over to France he went, found out old
Uncle Pierre in retreat at Versailles, and
cried to him to give up his part for the
time, for exit had come. Then back to
Plas-y-Coed he footed it, and wrested
the play-book from little Bertie's hands
before he had well conned his first
half-dozen lines. Off to India next,
and there he finds Colonel Wynne withall
sorts of delightful pre-visions in his
heart of a bright, happy, English home,
ruled by a bright, happy, English daughter.
He touches his hand, he whispers
a word in his ear, and lo ! the colonel.

instead of steaming home along the
pleasant ocean highway, with a score or
so of other cheery, homeward-bound passengers,
sees a great silent ship waiting
for him, in which, willy-nilly, he is
forced to take passage, and go sailing
away to the unknown land.

It was hard on Judith, thus one by
one to have her household gods shattered.
Her heart seemed to grow very chill,
very empty. She was not one of those
.who fill old shrines with new divinities.
No ; " let that which God hath made
empty so remain ; let that which is broken
lie broken still," was rather the language
of her heart.

Little Bertie's death she probably felt
the most of the three. It was more
actual to her  it left more gaps and
blanks in her everyday life. Uncle Pierre
she had wept and bewailed as henceforth
dead to her when he went sailing
away to China, and she had, to a certain
extent, over-lived (though unknowingly to
herself) the wrench and pain of that

bereavement before the final blow came.
For her father's death her grief was even
less poignant ; years of separation had
made a gulf between them which it would
have taken years of companionship to
bridge over. But with little Bertie it
was otherwise. The child had somehow
so entwined himself about her heart,
she scarce knew which were his fibres,
which her own.

After Wolf's disappearance she had constituted
herself his guardian, his teacher,
his nurse, his playfellow  in a word, his
mother. The words on Judith's lips, "He
shall be as my own child," meant more
than they might on the lips of most
young girls. As her own child he was
to her during the brief span of life allotted
to him, and when, after a winter of
sharp lung-disease, he slowly faded, just
as spring violets and primroses were
coming into bloom, it was as her own
child she mourned him.

Old Mr. Maurice, so long administrator
to the estate of the Eeece family, had

been charged with the task of identifying
the Httle Bertie as rightful heir to the
property. He naturally preferred a coadjutor
in the matter, and selected for the
post a much-esteemed lawyer living at
Pen Cwellyn. Together they went through
Wolf's papers, finding them in a surprising
state of order and exactness. Ina
large sealed envelope in a prominent
place they found the marriage certificate
of Bertie's father and mother, together
with full information of the minister who
performed the ceremony, and where he
could most likely be heard of. All receipts
and expenditures of the estate
were made up to date with scrupulous
exactness, and Wolf's bank-book showed
pitifully with what small sums for personal
use he had contented himself, and
how insatiable had been Delphine's
rapacity.

The details of the inheritance had not
under these conditions been difficult to
arrange. The Pen Cwellyn lawyer had
proposed that Bertie should be made a

ward in chancery with Judith nominated
as guardian.

This had been scarcely done when
symptoms of his mothers fatal disease
showed themselves in the child, and he
was removed from earthly to heavenly
keeping.

Oscar, of course, in the event of Wolfss
decease, stood next heir ; in his brother's
death, however, Oscar steadily refused to
believe, and as steadily (for three years, at
any rate) refused to take possession of the
estate. The story of Wolfss sin, of his
repentance, and of his subsequent disappearance
had been a terrible blow to
Oscar; it had been told him gently but
truthfully by Judith in a long, carefully-worded
letter. She and Mrs. Eeece had
rightly judged that it would be wiser and
kinder not to keep the truth from him,
for there is no land to which rumour, on
its swift, strong wing, cannot bear its load
of lies.

A sharp, bitter blow it was to the lad
that the brother he had so deeply reverenced

could thus have erred, but it was
a blow nevertheless which seemed in some
sort to restore his own mind to its right
balance.

It somehow shook out of his heart the
ashes of the lost love, the regrets, the
self-pity which lay smouldering in it ; it
seemed to set his feet more firmly in the
upward path he had marked out for himself.

Oscar did very well out in India. He
made friends rapidly in all directions. Of
his own free will he would have remained
there, climbing step by step up the
ladder, making his own way and fortune
in life. His mother's importunities,
however, and, of late, Judith's, succeeded
at length in bringing him home.

See, dear Oscar," wrote Judith, " everyone,
everything here, needs you. Your
mother cannot hope to see many more
years. She has had pain and sorrow
enough, Heaven knows. Give her what
you can of peace, if not of joy, in her
later years. Then, too, this place is needing
a master sadly. Mr. Maurice is so

old he wants to resign, and there is no
one here who can appoint his successor.
Everything seems getting into almost inextricable
confusion for want of a final
decision. A variety of small, harassing
matters are being daily referred to your
mother, with which she really ought not
to be troubled. It certainly seems to me
your bounden duty to return at once, and
take all these things upon your own
shoulders. Do not look upon yourself as
in any sort an usurper of Wolf's rights or
inheritance. Call yourself his steward, if
you will, and hold yourself in readiness
to give up the reins at any moment. Butin
any case, come, for we all of us feel
that you ought to be here."

And then there followed a postscript 
much such an one as she had sent him
a score or so of times before  how that
Theoo Martin had been staying once more at
the Grange, and how sweet, and gentle,
and beautiful she had grown.

And after this a second postscript, the
like of which she had never sent him

before, and which, strange to say, did not
touch him in the manner he had at one
time expected such news might. It contained
the tidings that Lord Havers was
dead, and Leila, consequently, a widow 
how that her husband had concluded a most
profligate course of living by a death
through delirium-tremens, and how that
Leila had gone home to her father's house,
a mere wreck of the beautiful girl of langsyne.


VOL. m. 50

thus things in due course adjusted
themselves, and when the fifth year
after Wolfss disappearance was
preparing to make its exit amid Christmas
joys and festivities, Oscar was well-established
as master of Plas-y-Coed, and,
more than that, was making preparations
for the due instalment of a sweet young
girl as its mistress.

That young girl was Theoo Martin.
Judith had taken care that Oscar should
find her at the Grasse on his return from
India, and somehow, though how it came
about, no one seemed quite to know, when
she went home, after a long visit, it was
understood to be only on furlough, to
order her trousseau and be married from
her father's house.

So Cliristmastide brought to the old
Grange that year not only a tram of
kindly charities for the poor and needy,
but also preparations for a banquet to
be given in honour of the return of bride
and bridegroom, on as large a scale as
anything ever attempted at Plas-y-Coed.
Every neighbour, high or low, rich or
poor, was to be invited. In the 
covers were to be laid for
upwards of a hundred persons ; in the
dining-hall above space was to be extended
to its utmost limit, so that not one
of the tribe of Howell, Maddox, or Watkins
should be excluded.

Judith herself took the keenest and
most active interest in these preparations
for the feast. Heavy as had been
sorrows through which this young
woman had passed, they had not hardened
her heart, nor turned her spirit to gall.
Possibly she was not of the kind to be
hardened or embittered by trouble. The
true diamond can stand the touch of the
lapidary's chisel, and get increased worth

50-2

and beauty from the friction it undergoes.
There could be but little doubt
now of what stuff Judith was made.

As of old, every one, more or less,
seemed to depend on her for something.
Bryce, still holding the keys of the household
in her wiry old fingers, deferred to
her in every matter, small and great,
from the supply of household damask
which the young couple would be supposed
to need, to the decoration of the
banqueting-hall and table.

Mrs.Eeece whispered to her confidentially:

I don't want to wear your brains out
quite, my dear, but I shall be greatly
obliged to you if you will take as much
as you can off mine."

Oscar, even, took to consulting her as
to where the tennis-court should be made,
upon various details of stable-management
and expenditure, and the "latest
sweet thing " in fishing-rods and guns.
And as for Theoo, the. folios of letter-paper
Judith received from her while
the trousseau was in progress, requesting

lier opinion on colour, size, and shape of
all sorts of garments, definite and indefinite,
would have necessitated an extra
leathern pouch for the solitary postman
of the district had not the one he carried
been already of inordinate size.

With hands thus filled, it may be
imagined Judith had but little leisure for
repining over a sorrowful past, or for
tending and watering " that sweet self-pity,"
which is so emphatically the plant of idle
and luxurious hours.

Not that the past ever was or could
be dead to her. Not one act of the
bitter drama in which they had all
played their parts ever was or could be
obliterated from her memory. Every
word Wolf had ever spoken to her, every
look his eyes had ever given her, remained
as deeply impressed upon her
memory as though graven there with
iron tool. Her grief had in no sense of
the word gone from black to grey, from
grey to colourless white. No ; black it
was and ever would be to the end of

her life  black, dense, irremediable as
the darkness that filled any dungeon or
churchyard vault. But she thanked
Heaven she had door to shut upon it
and padlock to put upon the door, and
no one to the end of her days need be
any the worse for the sad recollections
which lay hidden thus under lock and key.
Sometimes it is true  though this
always when alone  one by one the
spectres of the past would troop forth
and confront her with their gaunt faces
and lack-lustre eyes, and, for a time
earth would seem to her a dreary, beclouded
place, and heaven  ah, such a
long way off! Sometimes at night, in
her own room, the distant mountains,
looming out of the blackness, would
seem to her dismal giant-ghosts guarding
their terrible secret ; the very stars
would seem to shine with a pitiless
glitter for the story they might, but
would not, tell ; but that did not mean
that next day she would go weeping and
moaning about the house, or, sour-tempered,

shut herself in her own room.
No ; it meant, possibly, a night spent on
her knees, with hidden eyes, a lying, face
downwards, on her pillow, with so sharp
a sense of pain at her heart as to be
real and physical, cheeks a little paler
the next day, and eyes a little more
weary, and, if possible, a little more of
kindness and attention than usual to be
shown to Mrs. Eeece  nothing more.

Mrs. Eeece also was brave in bearing
this sorrow as she had been in bearing
her other and earlier troubles ; possibly,
she thought to herself, it was all for so
short a time now that nothing could matter
very much. Naturally, however, she had
suffered physically more than Judith. At
her age, long hours of passionate grief
leave a more tangible impress than they do
on persons some forty years younger ; the
rheumatism, which before had been intermittent,
was now chronic, the labour of
mounting stairs could scarcely be undertaken,
and, once seated in her chair, no
matter where, she was loth to move out of it.

Put me face towards the mountains,"
she would say pathetically to the servant,
who placed her chair ; and face towards the
mountains she would sit for hours, her blind
eyes, possibly, filled with visions of her eldest
son coming back to her the way he had gone.

Oscar's return home with his young bride
naturally put a little more of life and circulation
into the house. Theoo tried to
hush her cheery laugh, feeling almost guilty
in her new-found happiness, and Oscar
made as little parade as possible over his
possession of a sweet young wife and
mastership of Plas-y-Coed ; but for all that
there was more stir, more talk, more movement
about the old place than there had
been for many a day past.

On this particular Christmas Eve, as maybe
imagined, the stir and movement was
increased a thousandfold. The coming and
going was incessant, the sound of wheels
up and down the avenue as though never
coming to an end.

The banquet was to take the form of
dinner for the poorer, luncheon for the

richer, neighbours ; all were to sit down at
the same time  one o'clock ; an early hour
having been chosen out of consideration
for those who had long distances to drive
along steep roads, rendered yet more difficult
by late heavy falls of snow.

It was a severe winter that year, hard
frosts had set in at the beginning of
December, and the whole country round
was ice-bound. The woods looked like
fairyland itself, with every fir-spire, every
pine-needle marked out in glittering crystal.
The mountains, snow-capped, showed
grandly desolate against a leaden, storm-threatening
sky.

There'll be a storm before night ; we
must get away early," said one to another
of the expected guests, as they prepared to
set out for Plas-y-Coed.

"You'll see that all the fires are well
kept up, Davies," said Judith to the butler,
for the last time making the rounds of the
rooms before she went into the drawing-room
to help Theoo and Mrs. Eeece receive
their guests.

Bryce followed her step by step as she went.

"They have forgotten something, Miss
Judith, they ought to have remembered,"
she said, looking discontentedly up and down
the long, tastefully-arranged dining-table.

Judith's eye followed hers.

The table seems to me perfect, Bryce, I
can't find fault ; you must tell me what
they have forgotten," she answered.

The chair for the missing guest. Miss
Judith, that's all," answered Bryce with the
air of one who thought the ultima thule of
human forgetfulness had been reached.

Judith started. There was one guest
always missing, so it seemed to her, at
every meal to which they sat down.

Yes," she said sadly, " the chair must be
placed. There's one we shall all miss to-day."

Bryce did not respond to this. In her
secret heart she had never quite forgiven
Wolf for the part he had pLayed. Lie
bean bustling about amonjf the chairs.

"Where shall I place the empty chair.
Miss Judith ; either side it will make the
numbers uneven ? " she asked.

Oscar coming in at this moment had to
have the situation explained to him. He
grew suddenly grave.

The lists have been gone through carefully,"
he said; "no one has been forgotten
; there can be only one person really
missing to-day, and there can be only one
place for him  that of the master of the
house."

So the place at the foot of the table was
laid and left vacant in memory of one who
was Heaven only knew where!

The guests wondered as they came
streaming into the dining-hall, Oscar leading
the way, with Lady Euthlyn on his
arm, and cast their eyes on this empty
chair. Then one began to tell another the
tradition of the house, how that no Eeece
ever made a Christmas feast without leaving
a vacant place for a possibly omitted guest,
and the dreary story of the old squire
whose coffin had been seen to pass through
the closed turnpike-gate was told once more.

Mrs. Eeece took her usual place at the
head of the table, Judith hers at her right

hand ; Oscar and his bride sat facing each
other half-way down.

It was a bright, pleasant scene to look
upon. The old hall itself, with its fine
carvings, stained glass, and ancestral portraits,
was worthy of any painter's pencil ;
the table, with its load of shining
glass and silver, its tastefully-arranged
hot house fruit and flowers, looked as
inviting as table could to hungry
guests who had driven some six or
eight miles in keen, frosty air. Handsome,
well-featured faces were in the ascendant
among the younger guests ; good
dressing prevailed among the elder, and
one and all had that kindly, genial feeling
towards each other which alone can
make an entertainment of this sort a
success.

All these good people were well-pleased
to be able to hold out the rio-ht hand
of fellowship to a neighbour who promised,
as Oscar did, to be one of the
right sort ; all were glad to be able to
bury in oblivion the miserable story of

this elder brother's life. To have heard
their hearty expressions of good-will,
their cheery predictions of good-fortune
to the young bride and bridegroom, one
might have thought that never a cloud
had' darkened the windows of Plas-y-
Coed, never a tragedy had been enacted
within a stone's-throw of its gates.

So the wine flowed, jest and merry
talk went round ; Lord Euthlyn paid the
bride the neatest and prettiest of compliments,
which she received with arch
incredulity and the softest of blushes and
smiles ; the lieutenant of the county
talked politics with Mrs. Eeece, and
recalled memories of various members of
the Eeece family he had known langsyne.
A Maddox, seated on one side of
Judith, talked foxes and hounds to her,
while a Howell, who sat opposite, wondered
over her beautiful eyes and pale
face, and thought how sweet a bride she
would make when her time came. And
Judith looked straight in front of her
through the windows at the snow-crowned

mountains, and thought of one who had
once made his way up their rough grey
sides, and had never come down.

'The storm which had threatened all
day came creeping on near and nearer.
An east wind began to sigh and moan
among the beeches ; a few slow, sleepy
flakes of snow began to fall.

It grew very dark within the house.
Oscar gave orders to one of the servants
to light the candles, which, in case of
need, had been placed on the table. But
Bryce stopped the man with a lighted
taper in his hand.

"Candles lighted at a wedding feast,"
she said in a portentous whisper, " means
a funeral before the year is out."

Oh, the old raven ! " cried Lady
Euthlyn ; " better let us feel for our food,
and the way to our mouths, than have
such ill-luck as that whispered about."

So the candles were let alone, the room
grew dark and darker, the snow-clouds
came creeping down apace, and people
began uncomfortably to think of the

close of the enter tainmeut, and the long,
chilly drive that was in store for them.

It might have been this thought, it
might have been the darkness which
made something of a pause in the midst
of the bright talk and laughter.

"I remember," said Lord Euthlyn,
addressing Judith across the table, " much
such a Christmas Eve as this, now some
forty years ago. Ah, you won't be able
to boast of such a stretch of memory as
that for many a long year to come."

Judith made no reply, and Lord
Euthlyn, looking up at her, saw a sudden
startled expression sweep over her
face ; her eyes seemed to grow round
with terror, her cheeks blanched, her lips,
even, became ashen. His eyes naturally
followed the direction of hers, and to
his intense surprise he saw that the
vacant seat at the foot of the table was
vacant no longer.

In the semi-darkness, amid the laughter
and the talk, one had silently entered
the room, and taken possession of it.

mim her eyes deceive her ? Did others

see what she saw, or was this but
some spectre rising, Banquo-like, to take
his place among them for a brief moment
before settling to everlasting rest?

At that, the lower end of the hall
the shadows were deepest, and an occasional
fitful gleam of firelight seemed
only to define the semi-gloom. She could
make out  yes, there could be no doubt
about it  the outline of a massive head,
of broad but stooping shoulders. Great
Heavens ! Did no one see him beside
herself? Wliy was. everyone turning
round to stare at her, not him ?

Was she 2foin2f mad, and was madness



written in her face, that they gazed and
gazed at her in this way?

She could bear it no longer. She
sprang to her feet, clasping her hands
together.

"It is Wolf, Wolf, Wolf! ' she cried,
with a loud, passionate cry.

And then the guests, one and all, rose
tumultuously to their feet.

Mrs. Eeece alone sat still, trembling
exceedingly.

"What! Who?" she said in a low,
quavering voice. " Judith, for the love
of Heaven, do not keep me long in
suspense ! "

But no one was in suspense long, for
Oscar, with one loud shout, had jumped
up from his chair, had thrown his arms
round the stranger's neck, and with one
hearty " Thank God, at last ! " had burst
into a flood of tears. The thoughts of
bride, of assembled guests, of mastership
over a famous property, all swamped in
one deep flood of joy that Wolf, his Wolf
brother, father, guardian to him from
VOL. ni. 51

his earliest years, was back among them
all once more.

Take me to my son, Judith where
is he?" said Mrs. Eeece, making a vahi
effort to rise from her chair.

There was no need ; for Wolf, loosing
Oscar's arms from about his neck, rose
and went to her side, one and other of
the guests falling back and making way
for him.

A fuller light fell upon him as he walked
the length of that long room. It was
Wolf Eeece, not a doubt, with his stalwart
figure, massive head, and stooping
shoulders, yet not altogether the Wolf
Eeece of five years ago  certainly not
the Wolf Eeece with whom Judith had
parted so sadly at the foot of the 
Mountains. A change of some
sort had passed over the man ; there was
a something written in his face now which
that other man lacked, there was a
something lacking in his face which that
other man had. True, there was a past,
and a sorrowful past, written  in every

line of feature and brow. It was emphatically
a face with a story to tell, no
one could mistake it ; but the fierce forlornness
had died out of his eyes, the hopelessness,
the look of desperate struggling,
seemed gone ; in its stead there seemed to
have come a quiet, a restfulness which told
of victory gained, an end achieved.

Judith's hands were both outstretched
towards him as he kissed and folded his
mother in his arms. He took them both,
he held them for one moment in his own ;
their eyes met  nothing more.

There followed a huge amount of handshaking
all round. For, somehow, these
kindly members of the Welsh squirearchy
seemed suddenly to have made up their
minds, since the evil-doing of this man
could not be undone, it had best be forgotten,
or, at any rate, forgiven, as heartily
as it had been heartily repented of. Then
one and the other began to say, " It was
time they said their good-byes, the storm
would soon be down upon them ; a family-meeting
of this sort was not of daily 



hence ; how glad they would all be to be
alone ! " and so forth.

Wolf bowed and thanked them. His
manner of somewhat reserved courtesy
seemed to have returned to him, the icy-cold
abruptness, which for a time had distinguished
him, had departed.

"There is one thing I would like to
make clear to you, gentlemen, before you
go," he said in clear, firm tones, " and that
is, that I intend to resign all right and
title to this place in favour of my brother
Oscar."

Oscar began a loud demur. Judith laid
her hand upon his lips " Hush, not now ! "
she whispered.

And so, with brief adieux, the guests
departed, like the gentlemen and ladies
that they were, asking no questions, though
wondering much among themselves over
the strange story Wolf must have to tell.

When the footsteps of the last departing
guest had died away, Mrs. Eeece laid
her tremulous old hand on her elder son's
arm. "Tell me," she said, "have you

been far away from us all this weary five
years ? "

I have been at times in the far North
of England, at times in the extreme south,
and at times within ten miles of my own
door," answered Wolf slowly.

Within ten miles of your own door ! "
repeated Mrs. Eeece.

"Oh, Wolf!" cried Oscar indignantly,
reproachfully. " And our hearts were
breaking for you all that time. Did you
never think of that ? "

I thought of it, Oscar; it added nota
little to my punishment," answered Wolf
sadly. " I had broken your hearts before
I left you, I knew that ; and worse still,
had brought shame and dishonour upon
you. It seemed to me I could not heal
your hearts by staying here with you all,
but I could do something to lift the disgrace
from the house by hiding it and
myself in some unknown corner. But
leave me to tell my story my own way,
Oscar. You can judge me when it is ended."

So they left him to tell his story his

own way, gathering about him in a circle,
with eyes fixed intently upon his face (the
face they had never expected to gaze
upon again in this life, at any rate) with
breath held in at times, but never a word
escaping their lips.

The story took a long time to tell. It
began with that dreary twilight good-bye
he had said to Judith at the foot of the
Llanniswth mountains, and told how worn-out
in mind and body, dazed and incapable,
his one thought had been to creep
up there, and in solitude to say a prayer
and die. How it seemed to him that
death could be the only lit ending to his
miserable career ; how that he felt it must
be in very truth at hand when, as he
reach the mountain-top, cloud-capped and
night-crowned then, he sank down in a
heavy stupor or fainting-fit.

Or it might have been a trance. He
did not know. He coidd not say. Nor could
he say how long it lasted. He only knew that
in the grey dawn of morning a vision came
to him. He seemed to be in a garden,

shut in with high walls, a carefully-tended,
neatly-kept place, filled with luxuriant
flowers. He had gardening tools in his
hand, but for some reason or other
had ceased from his work, and stood
looking around him at the beautiful
plants.

Suddenly a cool shadow fell on him, and
looking up, he saw it was the shadow of
an angel with outstretched wings. At the
same moment a voice, sweet and solemn
as a distant bell, spoke, saying :

' Go, take your tools, and work outside
the garden-wall. There are plenty
of labourers who will work within."

He awoke, feeling a message had come
to him straight from Heaven, and that
his life, which in his despair he had
accounted forfeited, had been given back
to him. His clothes were drenched with
the night-dews ; his limbs were stiff and
all but incapable ; but nevertheless he
managed to drag himself to his feet, intent
only upon obeying what seemed to him a
Divine mandate  upon finding out where

was " outside the garden-wall," and setting
to work there as a labourer.

In very truth this seemed to the man
his one only chance of reparation and
atonement.

Slowly he dragged his weak, weary limbs
adown the mountain, wrapped still in its
dawn, mists and dews, and at its very base
the question he held in his heart seemed
answered. A troop of gipsies, in long,
slow, lumbering vans, were going along
the steep road, and one of them, walking
at the head of the foremost horse, pitying,
possibly, his wan, weary looks, pulled
up, and offered to give him a lift.

Wolf somehow managed to stumble into
the van, and then fell senseless on its
floor, overcome utterly now in mind and
body.

For weeks he lay in the grasp of
fever, unconscious of all that went on
about him, but tended by these half-wild,
altogether heathenish people, with a rugged
kindness and care all their own.

Truth compels the admission, however.

that while he lay thus ill and unconscious,
they robbed him of every penny he possessed
; that was simply their way of earning
their livelihood. Also, it may be
surmised, that the main motive for their
kindly care of him and the indefatigable
manner in which they shielded him from
prying eyes, lay in the fact that by so
doing they thought they were eluding
the vigilance of the police.

Why didn't you set me down by the
wayside to die ? '' Wolf asked their chief
one day, when he had so far recovered as
to be able to take his turn at the horse's
head.

The man shook his head.

'" It isn't our way with those we've
given shelter to," he answered. " Besides,
we guessed by your muttering and talk
in your fever that you were being hunted
down by the police (you said a great
deal about your hands being stained
with blood, and the like) ; and 'isn't our
fashion to help them in their work 
they don't help us in ours."

So for five years Wolf had sojourned
with this wandering tribe, an Ishmael
among Israelites, learning their trades of
basket-making and tinkering, teaching
them to read and write, marrying their
sons and daughters together, christening
their children, preaching to the elders ;
not as in the old days he had preached to
his sinners in his London church ; from an
immeasurably superior height condescending
to their depth, but as one standing
on their level, a man who had fallen low
as the lowest there, a sinner to sinners.

Wolf Eeece's five years among the
gipsies may one day be written and given
to the world ; it may contain a few hints
useful to those desirous to work, as he
did, " outside the garden-wall."

The best testimony to the success of
his work among them lay in the fact
that, little by little, the tribe melted
into less than half its original numbers,
many of the younger  men and women
betaking themselves to honest trades, and
settling down in decent neighbourhoods.

At length the old chief died, leaving
neither kith nor kin to step into his shoes.
An odd circumstance followed. Wolf
with one voice was unanimously elected
king in his stead. Possibly he was the
first, and may be the last clergyman of
the Church of England ever elected a gipsy
king.

He accepted the honour conferred upon
him, but announced his intention of
ruling as an autocrat. His first decree
was a strict prohibition of thieving in
every shape or form ; his second an order
that every man should adopt an honest
trade. The result was that the remaining
half tribe was split into fractions, and
eventually altogether dissolved.

What was he to do now that his
work had virtually ended itself? Chance
answered the question. Chance had
brought him in his journeyings to the
borders of North Wales ; chance placed
in his hands the fragment of a newspaper
containing the announcement of
Oscar's wedding, and his intended return

to Plas-y-Coed to receive the congratulations
of the county.

But Wolfss voice, clear and steady as
it had been throughout his narrative, here
suddenly grew husky and threatened to
fail him. He threw a troubled look at
Judith.

I thought," he went on, " that two
who were very dear to me had joined
hands now. I said to myself, ' They are
worthy of each other ; who am I to
grudge them their happiness ? ' and I
prayed harder than ever I had prayed
before that my name might become a dead
letter to you all. But somehow the prayer
seemed useless and vain. I could fancy
it was being thrown back in my teeth
as I uttered it. My heart yearned and
ached for you all. My soul had grown
so strong within me now, it would make
itself felt, it would carry all before it.
Perforce it drove me back to my old
home. I said to myself, ' I will creep
like a thief into the house, I will
read in their faces whether my prayer

has been heard, and they have forgotten

me.' "

But Judith could keep silence no longer.
The room was quite dark now, for the big
fire had burned low, and the lamps were
not yet lighted. Xo one could see her face
as she rose hurriedly from her chair.

"Ah, cruel, cruel," she cried in low,
passionate tones, " to think you could
keep your own truth while others lost
theirs ! "

The words seemed forced from her lips.
She turned abruptly, and quitted the
room.

Oscar looked up keenly into Wolfss
troubled face.

"Is it your pride or your humility
which will keep you and Judith apart?"
he asked bluntly. " For the life of me
I couldn't say which."

It was the first time in his life Oscar had
ever turned mentor to his elder brother.

Wolf, with never a word, rose from his
chair and left the room.

Without, in the big hall, lamps were

lighted, curtains were drawn. Coming out
from the dark room, the light was dazzling.
Wolf had to shade his eyes with his hand
to distinguish Judith at the farther end of
the hall, standing at the glass doors which
opened on to the terrace.

Outside, the garden lay one pure, unsullied
sheet of snow. The storm was
over ; a clear, full moon went sailing overhead,
flooding mountain, wood, and valley
with its silver light.

A small, dark figure, standing just outside
the doorway, showed wan and ghostlike
between the white of the snow at her
feet, the white of the moon overhead.
Her face was upturned. It had a curious,
questioning look on it, born half of patience,
half of pain. Truth to tell, she was asking
herself much the same question as Oscar
had asked of his brother not a minute ago,
and had found it every whit as difficult of
solution as he.

It was no wonder. In this man Wolf
Eeece's somewhat complex nature, his pride
so frequently masqueraded as humility, his

humility as pride, it may be doubted
whether he himself was at times quite sure
which was which.

There came a strong, kindly voice at
her elbow which made her start and
tremble.

Child, child," it asked, much as it had
some six or seven years ago, among the
laurels in the garden, " what is it that
troubles you ? "

Even as he asked the question, his arm
had somehow crept round her waist ; he
was drawing her near, nearer to himself,
till her head rested on his breast.

Then she turned her pale face to meet
his dark one.

"Nothing troubles me now," she said
softly.

Judith, Judith ! " he cried passionately
though he held her close and tight to his
heart all the time  " do you know what
you are doing? You are casting in your
lot with one who has a miserable past to
redeem, who, to the end of his life, will
know nothing of ease or wealth, but will

be a toiler  and a good hard toiler, too 
outside the garden-wall.' "

And Judith, with her head still on his
breast, answered in the sweet, solemn words
of one of old time :

' Whither thou goes I will go ; where
thou dies I will die, and there will I be
buried.' Naught but death shall part thee
and me."

And naught but death can part those
two, so firmly clasped are their hands one
in the other's, as together they labour,
outside the garden-wall."

Not among the gipsies and tramps now,
but among a set of poor sinners who, atone
time, formed part of Wolf's East
London parishioners. Every whit as lawless
and squalid as gipsy or tramp are they,
and as emphatically " outside the garden-wall"
as any herd of Israelites.

