CHAPTER I.

The beginning of my story dates from
some seventy years back, from that
great and tragic day, when the tide of
battle ebbing from the plains of Waterloo,
left them strewn with dark forms
prostrate beneath the streaming heavens,
the darkening sky. One can fancy what
yearning thoughts were busy then in
many a rough fellow's breast, what thick-coming
fancies, confused by pain and the
horrors of the field, were pictured on the

evening air. To one at least among
them, Roger Bligh, a big, rough-hewn
man who lay there dying in the twilight,
there rose a vision of a little village
among hills, where man and boy
he had lived for thirty years ; of an old
farmhouse too above, and wicket-gate, and
his little fair-haired daughter Catherine
waiting to run out and welcome her
father home from the wars. Then he
roused himself from the faintness of mortal
agony and swift-approaching death,
and turned with a groan to an old friend
and comrade, Caleb Field, who was lying
with a shattered arm at his side.

Are you there, Caleb ?' he said. ' I'm
done for, my boy ; I'm a dead man. I
shall never see the old place again. Be
good to the little 'un, if ever you get back
there's nobody else to be good to her.'

I will, Eoger,' said the other, faintly.
So help me God, I will.'

*IVe nothing to leave her, not a farthing,'
Roger-went on, in his hoarse,
gasping utterance. ' It don't matter 
she'll be a rich woman, you know, some
day-when her grandmother dies ; but the
old woman's the very devil to her now, I

know she is Damn the Frenchman's

bullet, it's done for me ; and yet I swear
I never once thought o' dying, or I'd
not have left her, maybe. Be good
to her, lad ; she's your god-daughter, you
know.'

I will, Roger, if I live  as if she were
my own,' Caleb said again.

'And tell the parson I forgive him 
you know  his ill-turn in setting my wife
at me  she were sorry for it, poor soul,
before she died . . . and tell Tom Raises
I forgive him too . . . he'll laugh, I'll
take my oath, when he hears of it, but I
don't mind that now ; I'll forgive him . . .
God's forgive me, perhaps, and take care

of the little 'un-where's your hand, lad?
Fm goinor '

The Lord ha' mercy on your soul said
Caleb, solemnly.

He raised himself by the help of his unwounded
arm, dragged himself painfully
forward, and lifted his comrade's head
upon his breast. So the two were found
lying together. Eoger was buried on the
field where he lay ; but Caleb was carried
to a hospital, where, recovering presently
from his wounds, he learned that peace
was restored and that he was free to
return to England.

When Caleb Field, the bearer of his
comrade's dying charge and dying messages,
returned one fine autumn day, to
his native village of Haysted, he found all
his little village world turned out to meet
him. Scarcely a year had passed since he
went away, for it Alas no love of soldiering

that had driven him to be a soldier, but
the desire to join his friend, Roger Bligh ;
but the year, broadly speaking, had been
spent in fighting Buonaparte, and not a
soul in Haysted but wished to glorify the
man who had seen the field of Waterloo.
It was Waterloo, indeed, that they desired
to honour in the person of their hero,
rather than the man himself, for Caleb
had never been popular with his neighbours.
One of the shyest of mortals, with
dreamy ways, and queer, diffident manners,
he had held aloof always from the social
life of the village ; and as he passed along
now with bent head, his knapsack on his
back, his arm still in a sling, he hardly
responded to the greetings that met him
on every side ; intent only, as it seemed, to
gain the refuge of his little house at the
end of the short street. The villagers
commented good-humouredly enough on
him as he walked along. He might be a

hero, but he was among his own country-people,
and no prophet.

Have you never a word of English left
old Caleb?' said one of them, a woman,
standing at her door ; ' why, you've fewer
words than before ever you went away ; and
yet they say that in foreign parts they've
never done chattering by day nor night.'

He looks ill, poor soul,' said another,
standing by, ' he's had a deal to bear,
maybe ; and he'll be grieving over the
death of that ne'er-do-weel, Roger Bhgh,
He's thinking, like enough, that he went
off to find him, and that now he's come
back without him.'

And a good riddance, too,' said her
companion ; ' my man's as steady again
since that Bligh went away. It passes
me now that a good, honest, pious manlike
Caleb Field, if he is a bit queer and
in his dreams, should ha' taken up with
the likes of Roger Bligh. Caleb'll be

pleased, thoiigb, when lie hears there's a
talk o' making him clerk. He's fit to be
parson, is Caleb, let alone clerk, if he
had but the learning for it; and he's a
rare 'un at reading and writing as it is.
See, there's his sister's son, Will Franklin ;
he'll stop and speak to him, if he'll speak
to no one else. He's fonder o' that lad
nor his own father is, I take it.'

A curly-headed boy of about ten years
old had rushed headlong and breathless up
the street.

'Hi, uncle,' he shouted-here you are ;
what fun to have you back again. Now
we shall hear all about the fighting. Oh !
I wish the ward lasted till I could go fora
soldier too.'

Caleb stopped short, as the woman foresaw,
with a startled look at first, then
with a smile as he saw the boy before
him. He laid his hand on his head, raising
his chin to look in his face.

Why, Will lad, ho you're grown,' be
said ; ' we shall have you a man soot,
though there'll be no wars then, I hope,
for you to fight in. How's father,
lad ?'

He's bad with the rheumatism ; and I
go to the grammar-school now, uncle ; but
I come home every Saturday to Monday,
and I've a holiday besides to-day, because
you were coming. And father said he
thought he'd make it up with you now
you'd been to fight Buonaparte, and he
hoped you'd go to see him. Have you got
a medal, uncle ?'

nay, lad,' said Caleb, * if father's no
better will than that to make it up wi' me,
we'll just remain as we are. But you'll
come and see me o' Sundays, Will, and
we'll have Cathy. You've not forgotten
Cathy ?'

I should think not,' shouted the boy ;
Cathy's a real good 'un. She's no good

now, though ; she's away up at the Hill
Farm, and they say her grandmother beats
her. I'm glad I'm not Cathy to live with
an old woman like that. Good-bye, uncle ;
I can't stop now, I'm going to the river ;
but I'll come soon and hear about the
fighting.'

Stay, Will,' said Caleb, laying a hand
on his arm as the boy was rushing off
again, * what's that about Cathy ? Who
says her grandmother beats her ?'

Oh ! everyone,' cried the boy ; ' she's an
old witch, I believe ; she'll carry Cathy off
some day on a broomstick.'

He darted off. Caleb stood still for a
moment looking after him ; then, shaking
his head, he opened the door of his own
cottage, in front of which he was standing,
and went in.

He entered the front room, parlour and
kitchen in one, and looked about him, as
one looks who, after an absence that has

cliangedhis whole life, finds his surroundings
unchanged. All his life, until he had gone
to fight Buonaparte, Caleb had lived in that
house. He had lost his mother in childhood,
his father some ten years later ; and
Caleb, always a dreamy and a somewhat
melancholy man, had lived alone; not ill-content,
for he liked his work, but cheered
chiefly in his lonely life by intercourse
with his friend Roger Bligh. His friend
was gone now; and he had come back
alone, to a life empty of its chief joy, with
a shattered arm and enfeebled health.
He unbuckled his knapsack, and laying it
aside, sat down in an armchair by the
fireless hearth ; the sunshine fell across
the empty grate, and it looked dreary.
Some kindly woman neighbour had been
in to tidy up the house, and had set out
a homely noon-day meal ; but Caleb
hardly noticed it was there. He sat down,
and leaning his head on his hand,

remained gazing through the window
at the little red-roofed house across the
street, where Roger Bligh had lived with
his little daughter Catherine. It was in
other hands now ; a woman was hanging
out clothes over the quickset hedge in
front ; half-a-dozen children were swarming
in and out. Caleb dropped his head with
a groan ; at that moment he wished he were
lying at rest beside his friend on the field
of Waterloo.

A knock came at the door ; and before
he could open it, the Vicar of the parish
walked in, a tall, portly man, kindly and
well-meaning, but a trifle formal.

Well, Caleb,' he said, shaking hands
with him and seating himself in the armchair
from which Caleb had risen  but sit
down, sit down,' he interrupted himself to
say, as Caleb remained awkwardly standing
and leaning against the table, 'you look
shaken by your journey and by your

wound too, I daresay  Well, I have come
to welcome you back. We are proud of
you, Caleb ; we are all proud of you.'

You're very good to say so, sir,' said
Caleb, bashfully, ' and I'm honoured, I'm
sure, by your visit.'

Not at all, Caleb ; it is a pleasure that
I promised myself as soon as I heard that
your return was expected. You must
come up to the vicarage, and tell my wife
all that you have been seeing and doing.
She is specially anxious to know whether
you really saw Buonaparte himself. I tell
her it's not likely, but she'll not be satisfied
without hearing all you have to tell. Yes,
yes, Caleb, you'll have a deal to tell us all.
And you'll be welcome wherever you go.
I disapproved at the time, as you are aware,
of your enlisting ; you had your own work
here, and went, as I understood it, to put
yourself in the way of needless temptation
by joining that very reckless and unsteady

fellow you had chosen for a friend. But a
man who has been wounded in the service
of his country deserves all honour. We
shall all welcome you back, Caleb.'

Caleb did not immediately answer. He
sat upright on the edge of his chair,
his wounded arm resting on the table
beside him.

Well,' he said slowly, at last, ' there's
one that died for his country, who deserves
more honour than I do. Roger died at
my side, sir, on the battle-field ; and almost
his last words, if you'll excuse me,
sir, was to bid me tell you he forgave
you. Maybe he was not altogether in
his collected mind at the time, to send
such a message; for he was going fast,
poor fellow. But those, sir, were his
words; and the words of a dying man I
take to be sacred.'

'Well, well,' said the Vicar, choking
a little, ' he meant well, no doubt, Caleb ;

VOL. I. C

and, as you say, he died for his country ;
we will hope that he is now  ahem 
in a better world. I cannot say I regret
his absence from the village ; certainly
not; but I am sorry for his little girl.
They say her grandmother treats her
unkindly; they even say that she beats her.'

Who says it, sir ?' said Caleb, quickly.

Popular report, Caleb ; it may or may
not be true. I have no dealings of any
kind with Mrs. Wright, as you know ;
nor am I likely to have ; so I can do
nothing for the child. But I am sorry
for the little thing; she was very fond
of her father, I know, and might have
been a good influence in his life as time
went on.' The Vicar rose. * Well, I
must be going, Caleb ; I only looked in
for a minute in passing; but I must not
forget the most important thing I had
to say. You'll hardly be able to return
to your carpentering at present, I suppose?

It is your left arm, happily, that
is injured ; but I suppose it rather disables
you, eh?'

Caleb looked down at his arm.

I shall never work at mv trade aoain,'
he said, 'unless it be the lighter kinds
by-and-by, when I'm a bit stronger. Some
light kinds o' cabinet-work I might be able
to manage.'

'And that you are skilful at, as I am
aware,' said the Vicar. ' Well, what I
had to say, is this. Old Peter Symes,
the clerk, died not long ago, and we've
kept the place open, thinking you might
like the offer of it.'

A flush rose to Caleb's pale face.

'I'd accept it, and thankfully,' he said.
I shall have my pension, and be able
to keep myself, one way or another ; no
fear. But it's a sort o* business I've a
fancy for ; and thank you, sir, for thinking
of me.'

c2

Well, then, we'll consider that as settled,'
said the Vicar ; ' and now, Caleb,
I hope you will see a little more of
your neighbours than formerly. It's a
pity for a man to hold aloof from his
kind, as I've often told you. By-the-by,
I saw your little nephew, Will Franklin,
in the village to-day ; what a fine lad
he's growing. You're not on terms, I
think, with his father, Caleb? That's a
pity now, you know.'

'Well, sir,' said Caleb, with more decision
of manner than he had yet shown,
Franklin chose to quarrel with me at the
time of his wife's, my sister's, death ; and
it's not for me to make advances till he
chooses to see he were in the wrongs. Bathe
does well by the boy ; he's giving him
a good education, though he's only a small
tenant-farmer himself, and he never hinders
the lad from coming to see me. I'm
glad o' that, for I'm fonder o' that boy, sir,
than I could say.'

 Well, Caleb, he'll be an interest to you,
no doubt,' said the Vicar, kindly. * And
now, come up to the vicarage this evening,
will you ? My wife will be glad to see
you, as I have said ; and we can talk over
the clerk's business afterwards.'

He went away. Caleb sat down again ;
but he did not again fall into despondent
musings. The Vicar's visit had roused him.
In a minute he rose and cut himself a slice
of bread and bacon ; then taking his stick,
started on his way to the Hill Farm.

CHAPTER 11.

A BYE-WAY near Caleb's cottage conducted
between hedges and across fields to a
point on the high-road not far removed
from the steep lane that led upwards from
the valley to the Hill Farm. He chose it
now, in preference to again running the
gauntlet o the village street. Not that
he wished to be ungracious ; he was grateful,
on the contrary, to his neighbours for
their kindly feeling; simply it was that
now, as throughout his life, to hold aloof
from his kind, as the Yicar termed it, was
Caleb's first instinctive care.

Caleb Field was at this time between
four and five-and-thirty, a thin man, tall

and stooping, with a lean, brown face,
dreamy eyes, and a very sweet and willing
smile. His dreaminess it was, perhaps,
that most impressed itself on those about
him, that tended most of all to make him
unpopular. A frank and impenetrable
stupidity could be understood; but a
dreaminess that might conceal anything,
could naturally only be regarded with mistrust.
Caleb was in fact one of those men
who, with perfect simplicity of nature,
have certain qualities of mind and imagination
which, when unexplained by education,
are apt to make them a puzzle to
themselves and to those about them.
Caleb had had little education apart from
his trade ; he could read and write, but
books were dear in those days and hard to
come by for men in his rank of life. Nor
in any case, perhaps, would it have occurred
to him to moralize on his own character.
The small amount of self-consciousness

which he possessed only produced a
perplexed recognition that he was in someway
different from his neighbours, a fact
causing him no little pain in so far as it
raised a barrier between him and them  a
barrier he vainly tried to remove by such
unobtrusive acts of kindness as came in
his way.

There is always a touch of pathos about
the contradictions of a mind whose natural
instincts are stronger than the power of
reasoning upon them, especially when a
man is thereby led to such wisdom as
appears folly to his fellow-men. Caleb's
instincts had led him into deeds with which
reason had apparently little to do. They
had led him, for instance, to bestow time
and labour in giving a better finish to his
work than was accounted needful by other
men. They had made him love and admire
the strong and reckless Roger Bligh
more than any man on earth, so that,

when Eoger enlisted in one of his wild
hoods, Caleb also turned restless, and
knew no content till he went to fight at
his friend's side. Caleb again had a simple
piety, which found a sufficient outlet in
regular church-going and devout attention
to the parson's sermons. But when
Roger had his famous quarrel with the
Yicar for interfering in his domestic concerns,
a wider sympathy, for which lie
could have found no name, made Caleb
side with his friend.

The parson's a good man,' he said,
speaking with the energy and decision
that came to him when he was strongly
moved, * and knows where to find a power
of fine words o' Sunday, but he should ha'
let Roger be ; or, if he had anything to
say, he should ha' spoken out like a man,
and not have set his wife, poor fool, upon
him.*

Such was Caleb Field before he left his

native village, popular at once and unpopular
 half-liked for his gentle kindly
temper, half-mistrusted for his diffidence
and queer ways ; and such, with little
change beyond the loss and trouble brought
to him by the past year, was Caleb Field
that autumn day as he made his way to
the Hill Farm to visit his comrade's orphan
daughter Catherine.

Little Catherine, the only descendant of
a yeoman family that for generations had
farmed its own acres, would be, as her
father had said, a rich woman one day.
At present she was only a lonely child
living with her grandmother, Mrs. Wright,
a vigorous, hard-featured old woman, who
rode to markets and fairs to drive her
own hard bargains, quarrelled with her
neighbours, never went to church, but
lived, as she was presently to die, an independent
old heathen. She never forgave
her daughter's marriage with Roger Bligh ;

she took no notice of her daughter's death,
which occurred a year or two after Catherine
was born ; and Catherine, living in the
village with her father, never even saw
her grandmother in her infancy. It was
only when her father enlisted and the
child was left alone, that her grandmother,
suddenly descending one day, bore her off
to the Hill Farm that in the years to
come would be Catherine's own.

The Hill Farm was an old-fashioned,
deep-roofed house standing among barns
and ricks and hay-stacks at the top of a
steep and bushy lane that opened on a
far-reaching stretch of heathery moorland.
Below, a green and fertile land sloped
downwards to the valley ; cows fed in
deep pastures, grass ripened, seed was
sown, the harvest was gathered in the
wide-spreading fields and meadows that
would one day belong to Catherine Bligh ;
but immediately behind the farm-house

lay undulating tracts of heath where sheep
and cow-bells tinkled amon gorse and
bracken, and sweeping breezes brought a
fresher breath than the sheltered valley
knew. A gate to stay straying cattle
crossed the top of the lane ; immediately
beyond, a paling with a smaller gate,
where a clump of red-stemmed fir-trees
made a black shade, shut in the open
space in front of the farm-house itself.
Well as Caleb knew the place by sight,
he had never yet been within that gate.
Catherine's grandmother cultivated no acquaintance
with her neighbours ; least of
all with her reprobate son-in-law's friend.
But to-day he made his way up to the
house-door, and was admitted without
difficulty by the woman-servant who came
to open it.

Mistress is gone to market,' she said ;
she won't be home till nightfall. But if
it's Cathy you're wanting, she's at home.

She's always at home, is Cathy ; she sits
and mopes from morn till night, for all
mistress can say to her. Mistress scolds
her above a bit  too much, maybe ; but
it ain't natural, not in a child of her age.
I took her doll to her just now; she used
to be fond of her doll, but she took no
notice one way or another.'

The woman had opened the door into
the kitchen as she spoke. It was a large,
low-beamed room, running almost from
end to end of the house. A lattice looked
out upon a grass-plot and cherry-tree in
front, and the long slope of a barn ; at
the back a door opened into a passage
leading to the dairy. The October sun
shone in, and a few embers only, glowed
under the great black pot hung in the
depths of the chimney. Beside them on
the raised brick hearth crouched a fair-haired
child of eight years old, half-sitting,
half-kneeling, her elbow resting on a

wooden chair set in the chimney-corner,
her cheek leaning on her hand. The
neglected doll lay on its face behind her ;
she was not crying, she was not doing
anything, only listlessly drawing the fingers
of one hand backwards on the dusty
bricks. Her back was turned to the room,
and she did not move at the noise made
by Caleb in entering, nor seem to notice
him till he spoke.

Why, Cathy,' he said, going up to her,
you've never forgotten your old godfather,
have you ? Why, it's not a year
hardly since we saw each other every day,
and a year's too soon to forget.'

Catherine looked round, and got up
slowly. She came to where Caleb stood,
and putting her hand into his, looked at
him with wide-open eyes.

'I've not forgotten,' she said.

*Well, I've come to look after you a
bit, Cathy,' Caleb went on. ' That's the

last thing your father said before he died,
that I were to be good to you. You'll
like to hear about father, and all we
did together, Cathy?'

Catherine turned away her head, and
pressed her hands together.

It's no good,' she said ; ' father's dead.
I don't care now.'

Caleb was silent for a moment, baffled
by this quiet child-despair.

But he remembered you, Cathy,' he
said at last, 'twas the last thing almost
he said before he died ; '' Be good to the
little 'un," he said ; and he'd like for
you to know all he did. And he bought
something for you in one o' those foreign
towns we went to, a toy like what the
children there play with. He thought
you'd like it. I've got it down at my
house now. Would you care to comedown
with me, Cathy, and fetch it ?'

Yes,' said the child, ' I'd like that. I

haven't been to the village since father
went away.'

'Then come,' said Caleb, *you shall
have your supper with me to-night, and
we'll get a little cake at the shop, like
we used to do, and you shall toast it.
You'll like that, Cathy ?'

She put her hand into his for answer ;
and in a few minutes the two were walking
down the hill together.

Caleb was not a man to care greatly
for the companionship of children. Always
silent and dij0&dent, he was especially
so in their society, feeling too uncertain
about the thoughts and wishes
busy in their small minds to know how
to talk to them. His kindly purpose of
being good to Cathy had helped him
through their interview at the Hill Farm ;
but he said little during their walk, and
when he had his little guest in his own
room at home, he stood looking at her

in silent embarrassment, smiling, indeed,
to show his good-will, but lost for the
moment as to what should be done next.
Catherine relieved him by taking matters
into her own hands. She walked straight
to the lattice-window that jutted out upon
the street, and kneeling on the window-seat
with her arms resting on the sill,
remained fixed in contemplation of her
old home just opposite. Caleb, willing
to leave her undisturbed, lighted the fire,
and himself toasted the cake, not speaking
again until supper was ready.

Come, Cathy,' he said then, ' here's
supper ready ; and see, here's your little
knife and fork, just like you used to
have when you came here with father.'

She came up to the table, and stood
looking at it for a minute in silence.
Then, going up to her godfather, she
put her hand in his again, and laid her
cheek against his arm.

VOL. I. D

*rd like to stay here always she said.

Why, would you, Cathy ?' said Caleb.
 Ain't you happy up at the Hill Farm ?
Is grandmother not good to you ?'

The child made no direct reply. ' I d
like to stay here,' was all she said.

Caleb stood silent and pondering for a
while.

Well, you shall then,' he said at last,
you shan't go back to the Hill Farm anymore,
Cathy. There's a little room upstairs
with a little bed in it as '11 just fit
you. You shall stay here wi' me, and
we'll have Will to come and play with you.
You remember Will, Cathy?'

Yes,' said the child, with brightening
eyes, ' he used to break my dolls ; but I'm
older now, and I shan't mind. I hope
Will '11 come soon.'

Yes, yes, you shall stay wi' me,' said
Caleb again. 'I'll make things straight
with your grandmother. And Will shall

come. He goes to grammar-school now,
he tells me, but we'll get his father to let
him come o' Sundays, and perhaps of a
Saturday sometimes.'

There is Will,' said Catherine,
suddenly.

A boy ran past the window and the
next moment burst into the room. 'Goodbye,
uncle, I'll come again soon,' he cried.
'HuUoa, why, here's Cathy; however did
you get here, Cathy ? I thought your
grandmother kept you tied up to her
broomstick.'

Hush, boy,' said Caleb, ' Cathy's come
to live wi' me now, and mind you get
father to let you come of a Sunday, my
lad, and then you'll see her.'

That'll be fun,' said the boy, ' if Cathy
won't be a ninny and cry over her dolls.
You don't care about dolls now, do you,
Cathy ?'

Yes, I do,' said Catherine, with decision,

d2

but I'll put 'em away on Sunday, Will, if
you don't like them.'

Like 'em !' said Will, with measureless
contempt.  We'll go nutting, Cathy ; see if
you don't like that better than a fool of a
doll. Do you know where the best nuts
grow ? At the top of your grandmother's
far field. We'll peep and get 'em when
she's not looking, and run if she comes
near. That'll be the fun of it.'

That same evening Caleb went again to
the Hill Farm and confronted Mrs.
Wright. What passed between them, no
one ever knew, but Caleb carried his
point. He carried his point, for he
could act with both energy and determination
when the occasion demanded it. In
an hour he returned with a bundle of
Catherine's things, and that night the stars
shone down on a peaceful home in the
village street. Catherine slept for the
first time in the little chamber under her

godfather's roof that was to be her own
for the next thirteen years ; and for Caleb,
with the close of his old life in the death of
this friend, a new life was begun through
'his friend's child.

PART IL

CHAPTER I.

Thirteen years later Caleb Field awoke
early one fine morning in June, when the
birds were beginning to stir and twitter in
the clear red dawn and the grass was
still grey with dew, to feel that not the
sun, but darkness was about to rise upon
his world. On that day Catherine was to
leave him, and go to her own home at the
Hill Farm.

Caleb still lived in his little house on the
village street, though through choice rather
than necessity. He was a well-to-do man

in these days, so far as money was
concerned. For bis injured arm havio
with time recovered strength and power
sufficient to enable him to apply himself
to such lighter kinds of cabinet
work as had amused his leisure hours
when he was a journeyman carpenter, he
presently acquired with practice so much
skill both in design and execution that
his name became known in the country
round, and he had as many commissions
as he could undertake. He was a well-to-do
man now, and could have lived in a
bigger house had he cared to do so. Buta
snail that has crawled to the top of a
wall would as soon think of ordering a
new shell to adorn its new position, as
Caleb of changing the house that had
sheltered him all his life. He was one of
those men for whom memories tapestry
walls and furniture much more effectually
than the upholsterer's art. He loved

his old home ; his father and mother had
lived and died there ; and when be thought
about death at all, he meant to die there
also.

Caleb lived on then, just as he had done
during the previous thirty or forty years.
His habits had changed, indeed, a little to
meet his changed circumstances ; he was
the parish clerk now ; he was his own
master ; he had Catherine ; but they had
changed only to become confirmed. He
was still much the same stooping, dreamy,
diffident man he had been in youth ; only
youth was gone from him, and vires growing
up before his eyes instead. Caleb was
ageing ; but at his side in all these years
had been the springing life of Catherine.

In the first days after her arrival,
Caleb had still felt a certain shyness
towards the little companion who had
unexpectedly come into his life. But his
kindly nature soon drew him more frankly

towards one so young and so dependent
upon him, and before long a sort of tender
friendship grew up between the man and
the child. They never had a great deal
to say to each other. Catherine was a
silent, practical child, of loving ways but
few words ; she rarely laughed ; she had
no bubbling flow of childish chatter, or
Caleb had no power to call it forth.
Every day she went to school, where she
learnt reading, writing, and sums ; but
these serious studies had little interest for
her. Catherine's tastes were all practical ;
knitting, and sewing, and cooking, and
a maternal care of her godfather. She
soon found out that Caleb needed her
care. In those early months after his
return from Waterloo, he might often
have been seen sitting for hours smoking
his pipe with an air of dejection as he
thought of his lost friend and his loss of
active power. But little Catherine's return

from school never failed to rouse him, to
stir him from despondency to the half-anxious,
half-pathetic solicitude with which,
conscious chiefly of his own awkwardness
and his own good-will, he strove to take
her father's place ; till, gradually and
naturally, he, in his turn, began to lean on
the fresh energies of the growing child,
and Catherine's will and Catherine's care
became law to the little household.

Godfather, there's your pipe gone out
again,' she would say, coming in with her
books and satchel, ' give it me and I'll fill
it for you. And I'm going to boil the
kettle and make the porridge ; I can, godfather,
quite well, better than you can.
And if you'll sit still I'll warm your old
shoes for you, too. Is your arm aching
much this evening, godfather ?'

Such had been Catherine's childhood.
When she was about fifteen her grandmother
died, and it was then proposed to

take the girl from Caleb's care and place
her at school in the nearest town, some
twelve miles off. But Catherine refused
to go. She did not like schooling, she
loved Haysted ; she would not leave her
godfather; she would study farming, but
she cared for no other studies. There
was about Catherine a certain power that
already made itself felt. She was never
unreasonable ; she did not come to decisions
quickly, but she always knew exactly what
she wished and why she wished it ; and asher
wishes never soared to the unattainable
and the illimitable, there was nothing
to confuse the clear judgment she brought
to bear upon them.

Catherine remained then with her godfather,
and the Hill Farm was let for a
term of years. But her tenant dying
shortly before she came of age, she decided
herself to go and live at the farm, in
company with old Mrs. Matthews, the late

tenant's widow. Catherine came of a
vigorous stock, and saw no reason why,
with the help of her grandmother's bailiff,
she should not farm her own lands and
look after her own property ; she had, in
fact, in these last months, spent more of
her time at the farm than in the village,
learning at once and superintending the
large business of the farm life. As for
Caleb, he had always known that his goddaughter
must one day leave him ; he
knew that it was fitting she should take
her place in her own home, nor would he
once listen to her entreaty that he would
go and live with her. But not the less he
awoke on that June morning to feel that
darkness had fallen on him and his house,
to a sense that his life was broken as it never
had been broken before ; no, not even on
that other June day when his friend died
beside him on the field of Waterloo.

The sun had long been up when he roseat

last, reluctantly, as though loth to take
on him the weight of the heavy day. He
went downstairs to the little sitting-room.
Catherine was there already, moving
about, making the porridge, setting the
breakfast things as usual. Caleb sat down
and watched her, thinking of the day 
it seemed but the other day  that she had
laid her cheek against his arm, and said
she would stay with him. He sat watching
her ; yes, she was his little lass again
and all the past years were to come.

Catherine set down the porridge dish
and came and stood in front of him. There
were tears in her eyes.

Godfather she said, *I wish I could
stay with you, I wish T could. I. shall
never be so happy again as I've been
here.'

Nay, my lass,' said Caleb, rousing himself
and trying to smile, * you've stayed
here over long, most folk would say, a

grand rich lady as you might be, and one
who holds her head so high. Put on thy
best gown to-day, lass, that all the folk
may see how fine you can look.'

Why, godfather, I never care about
looking fine,' said Catherine, smiling a
little, * and my best gowns and my worst
are much alike, for that matter. You
know I don't care about fine gowns.'

'And we shall see each other,' Caleb
went on, slowly rubbing the palms of his
hands together, ' we shall be none sofar
apart but we shall see each other,
Cathy.'

Why, yes,' said Catherine, ' you'll come
and see me, godfather, every minute you
have the time. And there's Sundays ;
you've promised always to walk to church
with me, you know, and spend the day
afterwards at the farm. You won't forget
that.'

*Ay, ay, my lass, we'll spend our Sundays

together, please God,' said Caleb.
But he looked drearily before him into the
room, as he sat with his chin resting on
his hands as though it were vacant already
to his imagination.

And, Will,' said Catherine, hesitating a
little, * Will's always spent his Sundays
with us, except the years he was away ;
he'd miss it if the custom was broken
now. He must come to the Hill Farm
too.'

Ay, ay,' said Caleb again, ' Will shall
come too. I should miss the lad anyhow,
if I didn't see him once a week. For all
he was away nearly three years, and has
only been back a month, it seems only
natural to have him about again. And
now, lass, give me the porridge and go put
on thy best gown.'

An hour or so later the door of Caleb's
house closed behind Catherine as she
started with her godfather to walk up to

the Hill Farm. A few hours later again,
she stood bidding him farewell at the gate
at the top of the lane. There had been a
dinner given at the farm in honour of
Catherine's coming of age ; the guests
were still there, the sound of voices and
laughter came through the open windows ;
but Caleb, who had sat silent throughout
the meal, had escaped as soon as it was
over.

I'm tired he had said to Catherine ;
Tm none o' this sort, as you know, Cathy
I'm best away and alone.'

Catherine made no remonstrance with
her godfather, but she walked with him to
the gate, and stood there holding his hand,
as though reluctant to let him go.

*Come soon and see me, godfather,' she
said; 'come tomorrow. I shall be alone
tomorrow, and there'll be no one to
disturb you.'

Nay, my lass, not tomorrow ; I've work

to do, as you know,' said Caleb,  and you
and me's apart now, Cathy; it's best we
should know it. Sunday I'll come and
welcome, and the days'll go ; no fear.'

So they parted. Catherine returned to
her guests, whilst Caleb went his lonely
way with bent head, down the lane to the
valley.

He went his way, but not immediately
to his own home. He had work waiting
for him ; but his day had been broken into,
and he felt too unsettled, too forlorn to
return at once to his workshop and his
tools. He made a long round by fields
and lanes and paths, to a little grassy
meadow shut in by bushy hedges, and
ditched on two sides by a running stream
overhung here and there by faintly odorous
clusters of dog-roses. At one point, where
the cows had trodden down a drinking-place
for themselves, and where stout
hemlocks and cuckoo-pint stood thick

VOL. I. E

among the flowering June grass, was an
old oak-tree where, some five-and-twenty
years before, Caleb, with a laughing village
lass at his elbow, had carved his own
and the girl's initials entwined with a true
lover's knot. Poor Caleb ! here had been
the romance of his early life, a common-place
romance enough, yet bitter as ever a shy
youth of twenty suffered and lived through
a saucy, black-eyed wench who first lured
on, then turned her back on the awkward
lad, and married a rich farmer instead.
Years ago she had died ; but Caleb, brokenhearted
at the time, had kept a tender place
for her in his heart ever since. And yet
from that day to this he had never revisited
the spot that held his closest memories.
What brought him here now? His
dreamy eyes sought the initials he had
cut, as though expecting to see them still ;
but they had long since disappeared.
Caleb stood leaning on his stick, his memory

sone back into the past, his mind
entangled between past and present, the
years before he had known Catherine 
and now Catherine was gone again  the
years of his youth and the years of his
age, all mingled and confused. What did
it matter? since all alike was sadness and
loneliness. He shook his head at last
and turned away.

It was dark when he reached home and
entered his empty room. He struck a
light. All was in order, and his supper
laid in readiness on the table ; for a girl
in the village came in and out to do the
house work. Caleb sat down heavily in
his arm-chair ; he was tired with his walk,
tired with the long day, too tired almost
to think. He sat down, and drawing the
candle near him, took up his pipe that lay
on a ledge at his elbow, and prepared to
light it. The bowl was empty ; for the
first time in many years his hand sought

e2

??!1!1 n. illinois

his pipe, to find it unfilled. Caleb laid
it down again absently, and leaning back
in his chair, sat sunk in vague and weary
thought. In a few minutes he reached
out his hand, and took up the pipe again ;
it was still empty. Caleb's eyes wandered
round the room ; his head fell on his
breast. Yes, his life was broken ; and
courage seemed gone, and strength and
power to mend it.

CHAPTER 11.

At one-and-twenty Catherine Bligh was a
tall, rather large, finely-moulded young
woman, with a round fair-complexioned
face, an abundance of yellow hair, and
grey eyes, whose direct glance expressed
at once clearness of mental vision and
a good and straightforward simplicity.
Catherine was not a beauty; but there
was in her aspect a fresh comeliness that
to those who loved her was better than
beauty ; and no pleasant sight could
have been seen in Haysted than herself,
as she walked to church with her godfather
on the Sunday following her departure
to the Hill Farm. Catherine's

dress was simple almost to plainness ; it
corresponded with ber mind, and rejected
the frills and ribbons and vanities dear
to most girls of her age. A grey homespun
gown, a straw hat with a knot of
blue ribbon under her shining plaits, this
was her attire now ; her only adornment
a gold watch at her side, and a bunch
of June roses in front of her dress. But
Catherine's head was erect, and she walked
with dignity and ease. In manner she
was somewhat reserved always, talking
little, seldom smiling, never lingering to
gossip; and the villagers among whom
she had been brought up, said she held
herself high, and thought too much of her
money.

Catherine, in fact, was by no means
indifferent to the wealth and position
with which fate had endowed her. She
liked the heaped-up abundance of the
old farm, where she now moved as mistress

; the big kitchen, where the ruddy
glow, emblem of hospitality, never died
upon the wide hearth ; the well-filled
barns and presses, the stores of fine-woven
linen, linen spun and woven and fashioned
by grandmothers and great-grandmothers
for generations past ; and outside
the far-spreading fields and pastures, the
golden ricks, the horses and cattle, the
fruitful orchards, even the neglected garden
of herbs and straggling briars  she
liked them all ; but less through the
consciousness of wealth and position that
they conveyed than through a sense of
the width and graciousness of this sweet
plenty that the heavens above and the
earth beneath combined to prepare for
her day by day, through the knowledge
that here was enough and to spare for
all, for those of her own household and
for the poor, who need never be turned
from her gates.

To Catherine, in the midst of her
wealth, there could be, it seemed, no
sweeter or nobler lot in life than to stand
with full hands to supply those that were
empty, to sive food to the hungry, garments
to the naked. She loved this large
power of giving to all around her; she
loved herself to scatter handsful of grain
to the fowls, to pull down the cut grass
for the cows, to feed the young calves with
new milk. Hers was the golden life, the
large primitive life of the golden age; and
something strong and primitive in her
nature sprang to meet it. For the hour 
such hours are brief  she lived, without
knowing it, in Arcadia. Of her money she
thought little ; of her power of using it a
good deal ; of what people said, nothing at
all. She inherited her grandmother's independent
spirit, and was ready to stand
alone, indifferent to the popular voice and
opinion.

This was the Catherine known to all the
village and the country round. Another
Catherine there was, who on that same
Sunday evening might have been seen
wandering in the little weed-grown garden
behind the old farmhouse. It was a very
neglected garden of herbs, and fruit-trees,
and flowers, and full of charm, as such
gardens are to those who take delight in
Nature's wilful escapes from decorum.
Catherine, indeed, who loved a large and
fruitful order, meant to have it duly
pruned in time and set to rights ; butin
these first days at the Hill Farm she
also found a charm she could not have
defined in the spot just as it was. Yes,
a charm lay for her in its very neglect.
Catherine had more passion than sentiment
in her nature ; and yet it was the
sentiment of the place that addressed her
now, its sweet liberty of growth, its wayward
yet persistent choice of sunshine and

free air. It harmonised with a new spirit
that had stirred within her in these last
few weeks, a spirit that surpassed her
wonted range of thought, to write for her,
who had never read a verse outside her
Psalter, the fresh poetry of life. Ah,
happy days, when all Nature is a poem
that clerk and dunce can read alike, since
each alike is wise through the wisdom of
the divine eternal folly.

A man's footstep trod the path outside
not Caleb's slow step, but a firm, youthful
tread ; the little wicket leading into
the garden clicked and opened. Catherine
moved from where she was standing, and
came forward a few steps to meet the newcomer,
smoothing down her hair as she
did so.

Is that you, Will?' she said, in a voice
that had a very sweet accent in it. * I
can't see you hardly in the dark. I just
came out to cut a lettuce for supper.'

The young fellow laughed.

In the dark ?' he said. * Wait a minute,
and I'll fetch a lantern.'

It's no matter, and the moon'll be up
in a minute,' Catherine answered ; but the
young man was gone. In a few minutes he
returned, bearing a lantern, whence a long
line of light fell with his progress, across
the strange contortions of the old apple-trees,
making them look, as they started
out of the surrounding darkness, like denizens
of some enchanted wood. It flashed,
as he approached, on Catherine with her
yellow hair and grey dress, as she stood
leaning against a gnarled and moss-grown
trunk, a bovver of green leaves above her
head. Will went up to her, holding the
lantern high, so that the light fell between
them, illuminating each youthful face ; hers
fair, colouring a little in the sudden blaze ;
his handsome, sunburnt, with brown curly
locks carelessly tossed back from his forehead.

The light fell between them, and
they both laughed outright. Catherine,
who rarely laughed, was the first to recover
herself.

Will she said, ' what are you laughing
at? I am sure I don't know.'

I'm laughing ' he began ; but, as he

spoke, his eyes met Catherine's and he
broke off. For the space of a second they
stood, he looking down at her, her eyes
widening a little like a child's, as they
met his gaze ; then with a sudden flush
she moved away abruptly out of the light
into the encircling darkness. Will did not
speak; but in a moment he followed her,
and setting the lantern on the ground,
began to help her cut the salad.

Will Franklin was grown into a fine
manly young fellow who wore his rough
farmer's coat, his heavy boots and gaiters,
with an air which implied that if in these
matters he did not follow the latest

fashion, it was from no want of knowledge,
but from a superiority to frivolous details.
More than once, when he and Catherine
had been seen together in the village, it
had been remarked that they were a handsome
couple, and that old Caleb Field knew
what he was about in bringing together
his rich god-daughter and his nephew.
Caleb, who generally saw last what was
just before his dreamy eyes, had no such
thought, even remotely, in his mind. But
he had lost none of his old affection for his
nephew ; he had missed him greatly during
his absence from Haysted, and it was a
delight to him to have his company again,
as in old times, on Sunday afternoons. For
Will had been away for nearly three years,
studying various methods of farming indifferent
parts of the country ; and it was
family trouble that had called him home
now.

Old Franklin had been a prosperous

man in early life, and bosch affection and
ambition had induced him to do well by
his only son, giving him first a good
education at a grammar-school, sending
him then out into the world, as has been
said, to study. But things of late had gone
ill with the old man ; failing health had
come, and failing powers ; crops were short,
rent in arrears, and behind all, a squire
and a squire's agent disposed to press hard.
He recalled his son, to lend a helping hand
and put in practice all the knowledge he
had acquired of the latest improvements
in agriculture. Will, who had, in fact,
seen not a little of the world since he left
home, was a very ambitious young fellow,
determined to do well for himself in life ;
and he set to work with a will to settle
matters at home. But he complained
bitterly to his uncle that his father's old-fashioned
notions stood constantly in the
way of his plans for improving the farm.

He tells me to do what I think best,'
he said to Caleb, as they sat together at
the Hill Farm that Sunday evening, ' and
the next day 1 find that he has contradicted
all my orders. If I complain, he tells
me that mine are new-fangled notions that
will never come to any good. He might
as well have kept me at home, or let me
stay away altogether, if all I've learnt is to
cfo for nothing.'

Caleb pondered a while before answering.


"Well, lad, you must have patience,' he
said at last, slowly, ' it's hard, maybe, for
young and old to work together. When
one's seen many a thing fail, and many a
fine notion come to nought, it is hard to
believe that the next one that turns up 11
set the world straight for once and all.
But I daresay you're right, lad, in your
ideas, for you've a clear head and a
straight way of looking at things, so far

as I can judge. What is it you want todo?
Tell me about these new notions o'
yours.'

Will explained at length, warming with
his subject as he went on ; and Caleb, listening
attentively, understood the general
theories well enough, though he was too
ignorant of farming to follow the details.

Well, uncle, I wish I had you to work
with instead of my father,' Will said at last.
I might have a chance then.'

Caleb shook his head.

Nor you wouldn't like that, neither, my
lad,' he said, ' I've no head for business,
Will, not outside my own work ; and these
last few days I'm thinking I've not much
left for that either. You should talk
to Catherine, lad, about your fine schemes.
She, now, has a wonderful head for
business.'

Catherine has no need of my talking
to her,' said Will,  whatever she does,

prospers. Where is Catherine ?* he added,
looking round ; and then, seeing she was
no longer in .the room, he had gone into
the garden to look for her.

Caleb, seated in the deep chimney-corner,
smoking a pipe filled for him by
Catherine, had recovered more serenity
than he had known since the day his goddaughter
left him. Here at least was an
hour free from the sadness that held him
like a heavy dream in his empty home ;
here, seated by Catherine's hearth, with
Catherine moving to and fro, he recognised
himself again. Caleb was no longer a
young man ; and clear though his intelligence
was when he roused his mind to bear
upon any point, he had always had a confused
way of looking at life that left him half
the time with a half-realization only, even
of matters that most closely touched himself.
He felt without perceiving. But
with Catherine at hand, perception was

VOL. I. F

easy enough. He turned to look at her
now as, followed by Will, she entered the
room and began moving about, intent on
some household matter, smiling a little as
she passed her godfather. In Catherine's
presence, when she was at home with
those she loved, there was something
sweet, gracious, and benign. Will's eyes
followed her wherever she went; Caleb
watched her with a dreamy, half-melancholy
look ; only old Mrs. Matthews with
her white cap and her white hair, dozed on
in the chimney-corner, taking no heed.

Come and sit down, Cathy said Caleb,
at last. She came and seated herself on a
low chair in front of the fire ; and shading
her eyes with one hand, laid the other on
her godfather's knee. Caleb placed his
thin brown nervous hand gently on hers,
which was brown also, but firm and soft
and flexible, as strong to support, tender
to caress.

 You've a look of your father to-night,
Oatliy,' Caleb said, after a minute's pause ;
you're not like him, you take after your
mother's family ; but you've a look of him
when you sit like that. You remember
your father, Cathy ?'

Why, of course I remember him well,
godfather,' said Catherine, * and yet, whiles
I forget him,' she added ; ' his face, I
mean. It seems to fade like, when I try
to see it plain.'

*Ah! well, he remembered you; he
often talked about you. I remember in
particular one evening. We'd been on the
march all day, up to our knees in mud,
and soaked through and through; but
your father only laughed at it, Cathy.
He thought little o' mud and rain or
other things that most men were fit to
grumble at '

Will here pushed back his chair with a
movement of impatience. This sentence

f2

was the beginning of an old, old story of
Caleb's, one of his old stories of the war,
from which, to Will's mind, all gloss of adventure
and romance had been rubbed off years
ago. Will had heard enough about the fighting
by this time ; he could not pretend that
he cared to hear his uncle's stories again ;
on the contrary, he hardly concealed that
they bored him to death. If Catherine had
not been there, seated where he could watch
the firelight on her hair and rounded cheek,
he would have risen abruptly and said goodnight.
Will had a certain affection for his
uncle, even a certain gratitude for many
kindnesses shown to him by Caleb ; but he
had the want of generosity common in
young people at once slightly defiant of
their elders and quite certain of being
about to do a great deal more in the
world than has ever been done before.
Will had an ardent, ambitious spirit, and
certainly felt no great reverence for an

old uncle who bad settled down quietly
for life, content to be parish clerk, and to
lise in a little house in the village street.
Why should he care much, one way or
the other, for a dreamy, fast-ageing man ?
For Caleb was, in fact, no longer young.
An old man indeed he was not, since he
was still two or three years under fifty ;
and yet the epithet, ' Old Caleb which his
queer, secluded ways had gained him years
ago, was felt now to befit his age. He
had never altogether recovered his strength
after Waterloo ; his hair early turned
white, the slight stoop of his tall figure
became confirmed as he sat bending over
his work for hours. He had begun to
acquire, too, some of the habits of old
age. He liked to sit each evening in his
own chair and in his own corner, to rise
and to go to bed at the same hour; he
liked to work and to rest, each at its appointed
time, to find each day repeating

itself with the monotony of a life from
which little more can be hoped or expected.
Yes, he had begun to like all that, as
old people like it. His routine, indeed,
had been shattered, and he had been left
to feel his way as best he could to a new
condition of things. And yet, seated
quietly now, with Catherine's hand on his
knee, he felt at peace for the hour ; nor,
striving to resign himself to what fate
had brought him, dreamed to what ends
fate should lead him yet.

CHAPTER III.

Towards sunset on the following day,
Caleb again made his way up to the
Hill Farm, partly on business, partly to
still a restlessness, a dull craving that
had been on him all day, unsettling him
in his work, making him long for the
hour when he could lay his tools aside.
He had not meant to go again to the
farm until the following Sunday. He
and Catherine were apart now, as he had
told her ; yes, they were apart. But
throughout the hours that sense of loneliness,
of worse than loneliness, of something
missing at every turn, torn from
his life to its irreparable loss, the sense

that bad haunted him ever since Catherine
passed from under his roof, grew upon
him till it became intolerable. He would
go to the Hill Farm. He had no expectation
of seeing Catherine ; she had told
him the previous evening that she was
to spend the day and sleep at the house
of a friend at some little distance. Buta
message could be left with Mrs. Matthews
; he could rest awhile in Catherine's
house, nay, smoke a pipe perhaps, as he
had done last evening on Catherine's
hearth. His lass would not be there ;
but the room that was her home, where
he had seen her last, would be less
empty than the room that could never
be her home again.

It was nearly dark by the time Caleb
reached the farm. The door stood open ;
the maids were somewhere at the back,
and without meeting anyone, he went
in through the passage towards the

kitchen, used as a sitting-room by Catherine,
more than her parlour. Some design
for his work  for Caleb very frequently
made his own designs  had been vexing
his mind during his walk ; and making
his way into the low-beamed room, lighted
fitfully by leaping flames, he walked
straight up to the hearth, with the intention
of finding a piece of charred wood,
and making a rough sketch on the whitewashed
wall, as it was his habit to doat
home.

He walked up to it, expecting to find Mrs.
Matthews there. Summer and winter she
spent a good part of her old years in dozing
over the fire. But Mrs. Matthews was not
there : in place of the wrinkled old woman,
in her black gown and decent widow's
cap, some one with long plaits of hair
and rounded cheeks soft with the bloom
of youth, sat sleeping in the arm-chair
set on the raised brick hearth, sleeping

with hands loosely folded and head reclined,
in an attitude of complete repose.
A pair of steel shoe-buckles shone in
the firelight below a dark-blue cotton
skirt ; but from behind, through a low
western lattice, some last sunset gleams
gilded the sleeper's fair hair, and were
reflected back here and there from the
depths of the dusky room. It was Catherine
; but Caleb, who imagined her to
be miles away, did not at once recognise
her. Still half-entangled by his own
thoughts, half-confused by the confused
light in the dim room, he only saw as
in some vision, a fair woman sleeping
there on the hearth in the mysterious,
mingled light of fire and sky.

He was still looking at her with a dawning
consciousness that this was Catherine,
but a Catherine whom he saw with new
eyes that had never so seen her before,
when she awoke and looked up smiling

a little as from some pleasant dream.

It's you, godfather she said. ' I
seemed to hear some one come in ; but I
must have been asleep, I believe. I've
been out and about since dawn almost,
and had sat down to rest for a minute. I
must have gone off without knowing
it.'

Her eyes, as she spoke, sought the
darkness behind Caleb ; but finding no
one, she rose and crossed the kitchen to
close the door he had left open. Caleb,
meanwhile, made no answer. He stood
watching Catherine with troubled eyes as
she came back to the hearth, and first
throwing on some light wood to make a
blaze, raised her hands and began to
adjust the long plaits loosened during her
sleep. Catherine was used to her godfather's
fits of silence, but the strange expression
in his eyes as she turned and met
them startled her.

Why, godfather, what's the matter T
she said in sudden alarm. * Are you ill?
Has anything happened T

She laid her hand on his arm as she
spoke. Caleb started at her touch and
moved away a few paces, passing his hand
once or twice over his eyes, like a man
who tries to free himself from some illusion
in which he yet believes.

No,' he said at last ; * I'm well enough,
and there's nothing happened that I know
of, Cathy.'

He seated himself slowly in the armchair.
Catherine stood looking at him ashe
sat, with his hands spread out on his
knees, his eyes fixed on the floor; then
taking his pipe from his pocket, she began
to fill it from a tobacco-pouch that hung
by the high chimney-shelf. Suddenly
Caleb looked up, a strange excitement in
his eyes.

Catherine 1' he cried : but checked

himself. * Where's Mrs. Matthews?' he
said hurriedly. ' I came to leave a message
with her. I thought you were away,
Cathy. How is it you're here ? You
were going to be away all night, you said ;
you told me so yesterday.'

Why, so I was going,' said Catherine ;
and then Margaret sent word to put me
off, and I'm to go on Wednesday instead.
But if you want to see Mrs. Matthews, godfather,
she's back in the dairy, helping
Molly to finish up the butter for tomorrow.
Shall I call her ?'

No  no ; it's no matter for to-day,'
said Caleb,  another day '11 do as well.'

He mechanically took the lighted pipe
Catherine offered him, but he let it lie unheeded
between his fingers whilst he sat
as before, leaning forward a little, his eyes
on the floor. Catherine stood and watched
him in silence. In all his varying
moods she had never before seen her godfather

like this. Suddenly he rose. His
cheeks were flushed, his eyes at once dim
and eager fixed themselves on her, yet not
on her, one would have said, but on some
vision beyond her.

So he stood for a moment ; then gradually
his look took a fuller consciousness.

 Good-night, Catherine,' he said, turning
abruptly, * I must go. I'll come back soon,
but I must go now.'

Catherine stopped him as he began to
move towards the door.

'Godfather,' she said, 'you're not well,
I'm sure you're not. Stay here to supper
and sleep. I can't bear for you to take
that long walk home when you're not feeling
well.'

No, no, I'm well enough, and I must
be going,' said Caleb, * I can't stay now. I
shall be better at home.' He moved again
towards the door as he spoke, and Catherine
followed him through the passage, out of

the house into the little front garden.
The sunset light was almost gone ; masses
of cloud were slowly drifting up from the
west, spreading over half the heavens ; but
the stars were beginning to shine in a clear
grey sky behind the slender branches of a
cherry-tree, and the night was mild and
still. Catherine and her godfather stood
together for a moment at the little garden
wicket.

 Are you sure there's nothing wrong?'
Catherine said again, * you've heard no bad
news, godfather ? not of Will, nor of  of
anyone ?'

Caleb looked at her in some wonder.

*0f Will?' he repeated. 'What news
should I have heard o' him? No, no,
I've seen and heard nothing of Will since
we walked back together last night.'

He took Catherine's hand in his, and stood
gazing at her for a moment in the grey
twilight. A brief tremor passed through

his frame ; he let her hand drop, and without
another word walked away into the
darkness of the tree-shadowed lane.

CHAPTER TV.

Caleb Field walked home that evening
through a world that one moment's experience
had made a changed world for
him. It was late when he reached his
own house. His hearth was fireless, the
window was set wide open towards the
village street where a clear moonlight
was now shining down, and lights were
already beginning to kindle in some
of the little upper windows set in
the sloping red roofs. Caleb found a
candle in the darkness, lighted it, and
placed it on a long deal board fixed
as a table in front of the window.
Some of his lighter work, on which he
VOL. I. G

Lad been engaged before lie left home two
hours ago, lay there, his tools scattered
before it ; for he had intended to set to
work again on his return. He had intended
to work, and sitting down now, he
mechanically took up a fine saw. But ina
moment he laid it down again, and standing
up, looked around the room with the
same strange eyes whose troubled glance
had disturbed Catherine up at the Hill
Farm. On the walls were his rough charcoal
sketches ; chips of wood and half-finished
pieces of work lay about ; a small
table laid for supper stood in the middle of
the room ; the church-key hung on its hook
by the high chimney-shelf, on which stood
neatly arranged his little store of china
cups and saucers and ornaments. All
around him were the familiar signs of the
cares and joys of the life he had led these
thirteen years past ; but Caleb looked at
them now with a sense that these things

had in some way lost that perfect fitness
into which he and they had grown together,
with a struggling, half-painful
consciousness that the old placid life,
rudely broken into the week before, was
fallen completely from him now, fallen like
a cast-off garment, never to be resumed.

As his eyes wandered round the room
they fell upon a little china mug standing
on the chimney-piece ; on it the name
Catherine ' was inscribed in gilt, half-effaced
letters. It had been his own
present to his goddaughter when he first
brought her home ; and it had been left
there forgotten when she went away.
Caleb took it down now and carefully
wiped the dust from its edge, handling it
tenderly, as a thing to be touched with
reverence ; then setting it on the table
where stood his untouched supper, he sat
down and gazed at it fixedly for a few
moments. Who shall say what memories

git

awoke, and what emotions ? Suddenly
springing up, he stretched out his arm
with a passion, a fire and excitement that
transfigured the whole man.

Cathy, Cathy, come back to me,' he
cried, ' I love thee, Catherine, I cannot
live without thee.'

He stopped, startled by the strangeness
of his own voice breaking the silence of
the room. But his words were a revelation
to himself, an interpretation of the
helpless longing, the heavy sense of loss
and solitude that had settled down upon
him like some dull, bewildering dream.
He loved Catherine; he loved her, he

loved her With a strange rapture he

repeated the words to himself; he loved
her. Nay, when had he not loved her ?
He had loved her from the day when as a
child, she had put her little hand into his
with a look of trust in her quiet eyes,
until that other day when, grown through

her slim girlhood into a fair woman, she
had crossed the threshold of his door,
leaving behind her a dusky room that forever
missed her presence. He had always
loved her. Their two lives had never
mingled ; they had lived under the same
roof, and he had guarded her to the utmost
fulfilment of his promise to her
father ; but always he had looked on at
this mystery of childhood and girlhood
growing up at his side as a thing altogether
above and apart from himself ; and
it had needed, he knew it now, but a touch
to change that gentle reverence into the
passionate worship of a man for the woman
he loves.

Caleb sat and pondered these things,
his eyes fixed on the little gilt-edged
mug before him, till the passion and
the trouble passed from his eyes and in
their place came an expression of infinite
sweetness. His little lass was one, and

the woman he loved was one, and yet they
were the same ; and the ripeness and tenderness
of such a love filled his soul for
the hour with joy. Already the old life
was beginning to absorb the new ; scarcely,
already, could he recal the time when
Catherine had been other to him than she
was now.

A tap at the casement startled him;
and turning, he saw Will Franklin's face
looking in from the outer darkness.
Caleb rose and went to the window. Tho
street was all dark, the upper lights were
extinguished, the moon had disappeared
behind uniform grey clouds, and a gentle
rain was pouring down.

Come in, lad, come in out of the rain
Caleb said, ' I'll open the door.'

He went round and unlocked the front
door. Will came in, shaking the raindrops
from his rough coat as he entered
the room.

'I saw your light burning, uncle,' lie
said, * as I went up the street. My father's
ill and I've been for the doctor. He told
me that if I would wait twenty minutes
he'd drive me home, so I came round to
see you. I hardly thought, though, to find
you up so late.'

Caleb glanced at the eight day clock ; it
was past midnight.

Why, I'd lost count o' the time altogether,'
he said. * Sit down, lad, and have
some supper after your walk. What's
wrong with your father ?'

I don't know said Will, * he's been ailing
this day or two, and wouldn't let me
call in anyone. But to-night he's so much
worse, that I came off for the doctor without
letting him know.'

Well, well, he'll thank you for it afterwards,
maybe,' said Caleb ; * your father's
not an easy man. Will, not an easy man ;
I've known that this many a year. But if

you're in want o' help, I'll come home with
you and welcome.'

Thank you, uncle ; but I don't know
that there's much to be done,' said Will ;
for Caleb's quarrel with his father, as he
knew, had never yet been made up.  I'll
look in tomorrow evening, though, if I
can, and tell you how we're going on, and
what the doctor says.'

Will poured out, as he spoke, a glass
of ale from a jug standing on the table.
In doing so his attention was caught by
the little china mug, and he took it up to
examine it more closely.

Why, this is Catherine's,' he said ;
*how well I remember it. She used to
lend it to me when I had been good, as
she called it. How did it come here ?'

Well, it was forgotten, I suppose,' said
Caleb, ' it'd been standing so long with the
other china on the shelf there. I took it
down this evening to dust it.'

Will stood gazing at the faded gilt
 Catherine,' much as Caleb had done an
hour or two before. All at once his face
flushed ; with a hasty gesture he turned to
his uncle as though about to speak ;
but Caleb checked him by taking the mug
from his hand and replacing it on the shelf.

I can't have it broken  it's been there
so long,' he said, by way of apology.
Besides,' he added, with a tender smile,
it ain't mine, it's Cathy's ; and maybe
some day she'll like to have it again.'

Will looked at his uncle. Some change
had come over him, inexplicable to the
young man ; his eyes were bright, he held
his head more erect ; something alert instep
and gesture made him. look ten years
younger than his wont. Will looked at
him in wonder ; he forgot the words he had
meant to speak ; and the clock striking at
that moment, he drank off his ale, and began
buttoning up his coat.

I must be off,' he said. ' Uncle, when
you see Catherine, perhaps you'll tell her
about my father ; I may not be able to
get up to the Hill Farm just at present.
But I'll be over here again tomorrow.'

*Ay, ay, I'll tell her,' said Caleb. He
followed Will to the door, bolted it behind
him, and returned to the room. He came
back slowly, and for a minute stood without
moving ; in the silence he heard the
doctor's gig come rattling down the street,
and the sound die in the distance. Then
his head drooped, and he sank again
into his chair. Will's visit had broken in
upon the brightness of his dreams ; it was
not to be recovered. Nay, rather a subtle
pain had stolen upon him, coming he knew
not whence nor wherefore. He sat with
his arm resting upon the table, his head
on his arm ; and so fatigue overcoming
him, he must presently have fallen asleep ;
for he was aroused by a breeze blowing

freshly in, and looking up, saw a dripping-dawn
coming greyly in through the window,
and so awoke, a new man, to the
consciousness of a new day.

CHAPTER Y.

On the morning of this same day that
opened with such grey dawn, with such
transfigured life for Caleb, Catherine and
Will Franklin where walking together up
the steep lane that led to the Hill Farm.
Caleb's first thought, when Will had begged
him to inform Catherine of his father's
illness, was that here was an occasion to
go up to the farm the next day when work
was over. But Catherine had forestalled
him. She had come down herself to the
village to tell her god-father of an event
that touched her closely  the sudden and
unexpected death of her old bailiff. It

"was a real trouble to Catherine. She had
liked and trusted the old man ; it washer
first experience of the interference of
death with the business of life, and it had
fallen suddenly upon the peace and prosperity
of her home-coming to the Hill
Farm. Her first idea had been to go and
tell Caleb ; the strangeness of his conduct
the evening before had passed for the time
out of her mind, and there was nothing
in his manner to-night to recal it. Nos
there was nothing to recal it ; to Catherine,
pre-occupied with other matters, he
seemed just the same as usual as he sat
there listening, with bent head, almost
silent, hardly looking at her. If he was
diffident and reserved, as he had never
before been with Catherine, if he was
burning with an intense consciousness
that held him almost motionless in her
presence, she only thought that he was
tired, as he often was after his day's work,

and that lie must not worry him too much
with her own troubles.

She had risen to go when Will came in,
as he had promised, to report on his
father's state ; and when he offered to
walk home with her, she consented at
once. Her little maid was there, indeed,
and the two girls could have walked
home safely enough along the quiet roads
even after darkness had set in ; but Catherine
had her own reason for accepting
Will's escort. There was a proposal she
wanted to make to him about his home-affairs,
which want of opportunity, want
of courage too, perhaps, had withheld her
from making hitherto. Even now, when
they were alone, she still hesitated. Will
also found little to say at first, and they
walked on side by side, almost in silence,
through the moonlit darkness towards
the farm, the servant-girl loitering not far
behind.

How had these two first learned to
know they loved each other ? ISTot a word
of love had ever passed between them ;
nay, the frank companionship of their
childish days had hardly yet changed in
character. But love in its commencement
has no need to write its tale in letters of
fire across the heavens ; its suggestions
may be as delicate, yet its prophecy assure,
as those of the coming day, when the
sky whitens to dawn, or reddens to sunrise.
A flash of wonder, a deep red flush
on Will's face when they first met after a
separation of nearly three years, a fainter
blush, a slight smile on Catherine's lips ;
these, or such as these, were all the signs
either had ever given. Not a word of
love had passed between them. Catherine
was a rich woman, Will a poor and struggling
man ; and Will, although but a
petty farmer, with a practical mind and
ambitions no purer than those of struggling

mankind in general, loved Catherine
with that first unreasoning love which
abhors calculation, and introduces an element
of passionate romance into the most
egotistic character. A larger and simpler
nature than his might have been capable
of forgetting, for a time at least, the
woman's riches in the woman. But this
was impossible to Will. He was very
ambitious, and he could not shut his
eyes to the fact that, with Catherine's
lands and Catherine's money at his disposal,
most of his present ambitions would
be within easy reach. His utmost stretch
of magnanimity could only recognise with
a sort of anger that this thought of Catherine's
wealth in some way desecrated his
love for Catherine herself.

Nevertheless, there had latterly arisen a
certain consciousness between them, which
now that they were together, led to silence.
Both, too, were pre-occupied ; Will with

the worry of his home affairs, from which
not even Catherine's presence could set
him free, and Catherine with the suggestion
about those affairs which she at once
wished and hesitated to make. And yet
both were gradually wrought upon by the
rare sentiment of the hour. The moon
brightening from moment to moment in
the warm-tinted sky, swept clear of clouds
since last night's rain ; the shadows that
fell across the light-flooded path where
the lane ran low between grassy tree-crowned
banks; the still air filled with
honey-scents and dew ; the chirp and rustle
of some wakeful bird ; the sudden whirr of
a night-moth circling round their heads,
and the silence hardly broken by these, or by
the loitering footsteps of the little maid as
she now paused and lingered behind, now
hurried to overtake them  all these things
thrilled them to an intense consciousness,
set them in a remoter isolation, in which
VOL. I, H

the pulses of each seemed vibrating to one
touch, the enchanted touch of the white
and balmy night. Insensibly the space
between them lessened as Will drew nearer
to Catherine's side ; his eyes sought hers,
almost he touched her hand to clasp it as
when in childhood they set out hand in

hand on some childish expedition All

at once the farm-lights shining at the turn
of the lane broke the spell. Catherine
moved away a pace from Wiles side, and
stood waiting for the girl behind to join
them.

Run on, Lizzie,' she said to her, ' and
see that supper s ready.' Then turning to
her companion : ' Will,' she said, rather
hurriedly, ' I want, if you'll let me, to
speak to you about your affairs. You're
in a deal of trouble at home, I'm afraid,
besides your father's illness.'

Trouble enough,' Will answered, immediately
recalled to a sense of his home

cares. * Our lease is out at Michaelmas,
and the squire lias sent word that we must
pay up all arrears, or he won't renew it.
I may, or may not, be able to raise the
money ; but if I do, where's the good ?
We shall be as hard up as ever when next
rent-day comes round ; and now my father
is down with rheumatic fever for the next
three months, the doctor says. So there'll
be the expense of his illness, and everything
at a standstill besides, if he goes on
as he does now ; for he's got a notion into
his head that nothing can be done unless
he sees to it himself'.

Will spoke with a good deal of bitterness.
Only that morning he had had a
trying scene with his father, when the old
man, made more obstinate and perverse by
illness, had insisted on seeing the farm-men
himself; and seeing them, had at once
contradicted some orders his son had
given.

h2

Why, that's hard said Catherine, * for
of course, Will, you know what is best todo.'
They had reached the farm-house
now ; but, instead of going in, she turned
on one side and went on with Will into the
little garden at the back. As they passed
along, her eye rested on her own barns
and sheds and haystacks, on all the sheltered
home enclosure and on the fields beyond,
spreading peacefully in the moonlight,
whence a plentiful harvest would presently
be gathered in. As Will had said, everything
prospered with Catherine.

Will,' she said, ' I've been thinking it
over, and it seems to me very hard that
you, who know so much and could do so
much, should be hampered for want of
money, and that too, when there's so much
money in the world, and a deal of it wasted.'

That's in the nature of things,' said
Will, rather gloomily, *it's hard, as you
say ; but I daresay it's all right.'

I don't think so,' said Catherine ;
* since I've been rich, Will, I've understood
a great many things about poor people
that I never thought of before ; I understand
now why they say it's so hard they
should suffer, when others have more
than enough. I think perhaps they're
right, and it is unjust, and I'd do anything
I could to help them.'

1 don't say so answered Will, slightly
nettled, 'though I'm poor enough, God
knows.'

I wasn't thinking of you,' said Catherine,
simply ; ' why, I never could think
of you in that way,  not as being rich
or poor, I mean. At least,' she went
on, summoning up her courage finally,
 only so far as want of money prevents
your doing what you think best down at
the farm. And that's why I want to ask
you. Will, whether you think a loan 'ud be
ny good to your father just now. It

need only be a business matter between
him and me, you know, and it might help
to set things straight again

Will walked on in silence for a few
minutes, reflecting; trying to set what
might be right towards his father against
an almost unconquerable dislike to the
idea of borrowing money from Catherine.

Thank you, Catherine,' he said at last;
'but to speak frankly, as matters stand
it might only be throwing good money
after bad. Later on, if we are harder up
than I hope to be, about the rent, it might
be right for my father's sake to accept your
offer. But as regards the farm, my father
has somehow let things go all to rack and
ruin this last year or two, and though he
says he wants my advice, as I told you, he
won't take it. The luck's against us, I
suppose, and we're in for a bad run ;
but heaven only knows how it will all
end.'

He walked on gloomily at Catherine's
side. She did not at once answer ; her
head was full of plans to help Will and his
father, and she had thought beforehand it
would be simple enough to propose them
when once a beginning was made. But
something in Will's tone checked her. At
last she spoke.

I'm in trouble, too, Will,' she said.
Did you know ? My grandmother's old
bailiff, Martin, died quite suddenly to-day.
I don't know what I shall do without him.
He was a cross-grained old fellow in someways,
but he was good to me, and thoroughly
honest ; I'd quite counted upon him
when I came up here for good. And now
I shall have to look out for some one else,
for I couldn't ever manage this big place
all by myself. Even my grandmother always
had Martin to help her, though she'd
farmed for so many years. But whoever
I get, I shall miss Martin sorely. And he

seemed quite well yesterday. I can't
hardly believe it.'

Will was silent for a moment. Catherine's
voice sounded sad, and tears came
into her eyes as she finished speaking ;
he had never seen tears there before.
At last :

Would to heaven,' he cried, passionately,
* that I were a rich man, or that
I had at least a shilling I could call
my own ; so that I might hold my head
up in independence, and not stand here
like a beggar, or worse. And you offer
me money  you, Catherine !'

Catherine stood still.

'Why, Will, I never meant to vex
you,' she said in a voice that trembled
a little.

Vex me!' he cried. He caught her
hand in his. * Tell me, Catherine,' he
went OD, vehemently, * what would you
think of a man who should seek to win

a woman better born, or richer, or  or
above him in any way of that sort,
and had nothing to give her in return ?
Wouldn't you call him a beggarly scoundrel,
though he loved her better than
his own life ?'

No !' said Catherine. They had reached
the end of the garden, where the path
widened into a little grassy space,
shut in by trees, and leafy fruit-bushes
hung with gooseberries and ripening
bunches of red and white currants;
overhead stood the moon, showing in
white distinctness each leaf and twig
and blade of grass within the little enclosure,
blanching Catherine's complexion,
slightly tanned by the sun, to a dazzling
fairness, and giving a more spiritual touch
to her rounded features and pale golden
hair. Her hand still lay in Will's. It
was a moment in which another woman
might have trifled or coquetted; but in

Catherine's large and simple nature no
instinct was stronger than that of straightforward
simplicity.

I think she said, * that when love
is equal, there's nothing else can count.
But if you set one thing against another
in that way, why, then I think a man
that's worth anything should be so much
above a woman, in manliness and strength,
that nothing of such things as you've
mentioned should reckon for aught beside
it.'

Do you think that, Catherine ?'

*I do, Will. I'd scorn a woman who
could think otherwise.'

*I wish I could think so,' said Will
gloomily, dropping her hand and turning
away.

Catherine turned also, with a sudden
revulsion of feeling. She had been so
anxious to give clear expression to what
she thought, that she had half lost sight

of any personal bearing in the question.
But now that her words met no response
from Will, she turned quickly, moving
swiftly away out of the moonlight into
the shade of a little overgrown path leading
to the farm-house. In a second Will
was at her side.

Stay, Catherine,' he said, in a voice
both passionate and pleading. * Don't go
yet ; don't go till you hear what I have
to say. I'm only a poor man, and I don't
know that I shall ever be a rich one 
not such as ought to think of winning
you for a wife. But my life is yours, and
you know it  you must have known it
this long time past. Let me be your
bailiff, your servant, what you will ; let
me serve you as Jacob served for Rachel
I'd wait for you more than twice seven
years, Catherine.'

He spoke the last words in eager, tender
accents, stretching out both hands towards

Catherine in the shadow. She
turned again and placed her hands in
his.

Are you to give all, and I nothing ?'
she said, her voice trembling a little between
sudden tears and laughter ; ' that
wouldn't be fair, either, to my thinking.
One thing's yours already, what I care
most to give you, Will  and so is all the
rest. Why, what does it all matter?'

And together they walked back to the
farm-house.

CHAPTER VI.

Will did not appear the following Sunday
at the Hill Farm ; but as Catherine was
coming from afternoon church, a note was
handed to her by a little farm lad. It
was from Will.

 I have twice been up to the Hill Farm
since last Tuesday, but you were away,
staying with a friend, I was told. To-day
my father is worse and I cannot leave him.
I have been thinking over  I have thought
of nothing else  all that passed the
other evening, and of what I've often
heard said about you, Catherine  that
being what you are, you might make as
good a marriage as any in the county.

And I say again that I've no right to let
you bind yourself to a poor man like me.
I can never care for anyone else ; my love
and life are yours, and you know it ; and
let my word stand to live and die in your
service. But I will not put myself in the
way of a better fortune for you ; and so I
hold you free, Catherine, if you will have
it so, till in. better times, perhaps, I can
claim you as I should. And so God bless

you '

To this Catherine made the following
answer, sending it down that same evening
by one of the farm men :

1 do not know whether what I say is
right, nor whether I shall rightly say what
I mean. I'm no scholar, Will, like you,
nor never shall be; you know that well
enough by this time. But my thought is
this, that after what passed the other
evening, I could never hold myself free,

nor could I ever care to think of a better
fortune. I did not speak in haste
then ; I meant what I said, and I say again
now, that if love between us is equal,
what matters ought else? But for the
rest, all that I have is yours, as I also
am altogether and for ever yours.

Catherine.'

Caleb was again spending his Sundays
evening at the farm. He also had not
seen Catherine since the previous Tuesday
 a whole lifetime, as it seemed to him,
and a lifetime of emotion. For in a nature
like his, when, among a hundred
struggling impulses that never quite seethe
light, one passion is fully born, it must
needs be of proportionate intensity. Caleb
had more or less dimly felt his way to
many things in life; but when he knew
that he loved Catherine, it seemed to him
that he lived for the first time. And yet

not even now, perhaps, was he fully awakened
to the realities of that life. His position
in regard to Catherine was so peculiar, his
relations with her had been at once so
intimate and so distant, that the transforming
touch which revealed to him that
he loved her, still left that love surrounded
with something of remoteness. A tumult
was in his brain, his passion absorbed him
as it grew from day to day ; and yet in one
sense he held it as a child might hold a
treasure of golden coins, a treasure of
delight indeed, but one to be cherished
for its own sake, without any thought of
its uses for himself or for the world.

Naturally, therefore, the doubts and
perplexities that were disturbing Will had
no place in Caleb's mind. Catherine's
wealth and position could have no importance
for him ; they had never been part of
her in his eyes, less than ever could they
they become so now. He planned no

definite future ; he felt no immediate wish
even to alter his present relations with
Catherine, nevertheless, he did at once,
after his own fashion, make an effort to
bring his life into some sort of harmony
with hers. On the day when she had
come to tell him of the death of her old
bailiff, he had sat for a long time after she
went away, troubled by her sadness and his
inability to help her ; till a sudden thought
striking him he went out and up to the
Yicarage, to ask the Yicar to lend him some
books on agriculture.

Are you going to turn farmer, Caleb ?*
said the Yicar, smiling, and looking out
some old books on his shelves. ' Here are
some volumes that are quite at your service
; but I am afraid they are rather out
of date, for they belonged to my father.'

Caleb made no reply to the Yicar's question
; he took the books home and began
to study them at once. He found it tough

VOL. I. I

work; he had not the most elementary
knowledge of farming, and though Will's
theories had interested him, the technical
terms he met with now baffled him at
every turn. But Caleb would not be
baffled ; Catherine was in need of help ;
perhaps he might learn to help her. All
that evening and each succeeding evening,
until long past midnight, he sat with his
eyes fixed on the dull pages, as if to compel
them to teach him what he wanted to
know. Anyone looking in through the little
window from the village street, might have
thought this stooping lean-faced Caleb to
be some old and dried-up student, caring for
nothing but the dusty books whose leaves he
slowly turned by the light of his one long-wicked
candle. No one could have guessed,
for there was nothing in his appearance to
betray it, that here was a heart grown
young and pathetically unwise through
the force of a love so absorbing as to leave

no room for any consciousness but that of
its own strength. And yet not young ;
for one is the youth of love, and another
the love of older life. Was Caleb
happy as he sat there ? A strange fever
possessed those midnight hours, an immeasurable
longing, an endless unrest.
Often he would push aside the volumes
with their terms and jargon strange
to him as an unknown tongue, and sit
with his arras stretched out over the
table, his eyes fixed on the opposite wall.
Catherine, Catherine !' he would repeat
under his breath ; till his voice, breaking
above a whisper, would startle him by a
cry that died within the narrow compass
of the room, but seemed to him loud
enough to waken the sleepers under every
roof in the village. Then once more
drawing the book towards him, he would
sit dimly peering into its pages, till fatigue
compelled him to desist; and presently,

i2

with returning daj, the day's work brought
to him a saner mood.

On this Sunday evening, whilst Catherine
was writing her letter to Will, Caleb
sat smoking as usual by the farm fire. He
had at once fallen back, as has been said,
into his old manner towards Catherine;
the custom of years is not readily changed.
Something less dreamy he was, perhaps, a
trifle more nervous and abrupt; but the
change was still too slight for Catherine
to note, especially just now, when she was
pre-occupied as she had never in her life
been before.

She came back when she had sent off
her note, and drawing a chair forward,
seated herself at Caleb's side. It was
already dusk in the low-beamed room, butin
the Sunday leisure no light was needed
beyond the red glow on the hearth,
and the grey summer twilight, brightened
by a single star, filled the long lattice.

Catherine sat clown quietly without
speaking, for the profound feeling that
had stirred her whilst writing to Will
had hardly yet subsided. But when, indeed,
was Catherine not quiet? In her
busiest moments she spoke and moved
without haste or bustle ; and if through
this tranquil temperament she lost some
of the charm natural to youth, its impulses,
its unthinking gaiety, its winning
perversities and contradictions, the immense
tenderness of her nature atoned to
those who knew her for such deficiency, if
deficiency it must be called. Cast in too
large a mould for the common joys of
girlhood, she was young through the
strength and depth of her passions,
through her unreasoning hopefulness, and
her enjoyment of the bounteous lot that
had so far made up her experience of
life.

She sat now in an attitude of repose,

leaning back in her chair, her eyes
in which was a very sweet expression,
fixed absently on the fire, one hand
supporting her cheek, the other mechanically
stroking a large tabby cat,
which wandering round the room, had
finally leaped into its favourite resting-place
on Catherine's lap. Caleb, turning
his head, looked at her, and something
persistent in his gaze presently
compelled her attention. She roused
herself and met his eyes with a smile.
Catherine was rarely inattentive to her
godfather's presence, but she had forgotten
it now. Caleb looked away again, and
knocked the ashes from his pipe.

Have you done anything about a bailiff,
Cathy?' he said at last, breaking the long
silence.

Catherine coloured a little. nothings
yet, godfather,' she said, thinking of one-bailiff
who had already offered himself.

Catherine ought to get a husband,
that's what I say,' said Mrs. Matthews, in
her high-pitched, tremulous voice, ' and
she's a girl to pick and choose as she likes,
for there's many a one 'd be glad enough
to have her. There's young Reynolds,
who wears a gold chain and as good a
coat as the squire himself, comes to Haysted
church as regularly as Sunday comes
round for nought but to look at her. But
Catherine's getting a name for holding her
head too high, and looking down upon
them as are as good as she, and that's
always a bad thing for a girl. She'd best
make her choice now, whilst she can have
it her own way, and take who she likes.'

Caleb listened to these words. A tremor
passed through him ; he let his pipe fall
on the hearth, and it lay there in fragments.
Catherine's marriage had never
occurred to him as an immediate possibility.
Once, a year or two before, she

had had an offer from a rich farmer, whose
fields adjoined her own, and she had then
told her god-father she did not want to
marry, ever. He had accepted her words,
not for what a girl's words in such a case
are worth, but as a statement of fact, and
thought no more of the matter. But Mrs.
Matthews had put the subject before him
in a new light, in which he vaguely saw
himself also; and that no longer simply as
the man who loved Catherine, but as others
might view him, the man who should seek
to win her. He turned to Catherine,
shading his eyes with his hand.

Have you ever thought o' marrying,
Cathy ?' he said, in a low voice.

Catherine was engaged in picking up
Caleb's pipe and finding him another, and
did not immediately answer. His question
disconcerted her. That very evening she
had meant to speak to her godfather about
herself and Will but Will's note had

changed her intention. She did not like
to say anything before hearing from him
again.

I have thought of it, godfather she
said at last, without looking round.

Caleb sat gazing into the fire, rubbing
his forehead slowly with one hand.

What Mrs. Matthews says is very true,
Cathy,' he said at last, in a troubled
voice ; ' you're a girl as might make as
good a marriage as any in the land.
Would that be your way now, Cathy, of
looking at things ?'

As how, godfather ?'

To look out for a man who could give
you money and land, and make a lady of
you, maybe ?'

No,' answered Catherine, ' I should
never care to be other than I am, godfather.'


Then,' said Caleb, slowly, ' if a poor
man  a man as had nothing to recommend

him but that he loved you, Cathy  was to
come to you, and was to ask you to be his
wife ; then, if you loved him, you'd say
"yes?'

I would,' said Catherine. She turned
quickly to Caleb as she spoke ; her breath
came quicker, her colour rose, nearly in
that moment she had told him all. But
again she checked the impulse as before,
and moved away quickly to the window.
What did her godfather mean ? Had he
seen "Will? could Will have spoken to him?

Caleb, on his side, sat silent. He had
spoken without premeditation ; the words
still sounded in his ears when he had done
speaking, as though another than himself
had uttered them  nay, as though Catherine's
answer had been made to another
than himself. He also rose presently, and as
Catherine began to busy herself about the
supper, slowly paced the room. The troubled
look had deepened on his face. He felt

shaken from such fevered bliss as his
dreams had known in these last four days ;
disturbed in that lonely Paradise in which
he had sought his joy, and thought they
might walk hand in hand together.

CHAPTER VII.

Caleb spent that night at the farm. He
Lad business at L , a town some twenty-miles
off, connected with some fittings to a
library that he had been commissioned to
execute ; and the Hill Farm standing about
half way between Haysted and the point
on the hiorh-road where he could catch
the passing coach, he had arranged to sleep
there on Sunday night, taking the coach to
L on Monday, and returning on Tuesday
evening to Haysted.

He bade farewell that morning to Catherine
as she stood in the flagged passage-room
leading from the kitchen to the dairy.
The early June sun streamed in through.

the open doors and windows, glorifying the
rough walls, and casting thin shadows from
the fluttering green leaves outside on to the
stone-paved floors. There was a smell of
fresh-baked bread mingling with the scent
of the homely garden flowers ; the loaves
just drawn from the oven stood piled on
the kitchen dresser, but the kitchen itself
was empty; hardly anyone was about; for
all the hands that could be spared had
gone to help in the hay making, and Catherine
with one of the maids was encased
in packing sundry bottles of cider and
buttermilk in baskets to be carried up to
the hayfields later on.

She smiled as Caleb came up, and
went on filling the basket that stood beside
her close to the open garden door.
Outside, a little child belonging to one
of the farm-labourers, was toddling about
in the sunshine, shaking its skirt at a
brood of downy chickens, who, watched by

a distracted hen cooped on the grassy bank,
were straying about the path and over the
threshold. The cat, stealthily climbing
an apple-tree in pursuit of a bird, came with
a leap to the ground as it missed its prey ;
and the child frightened by the sudden
spring, ran screaming with outstretched
arms through the door into the room
where Catherine was at work. Catherine,
who loved children, stooped down and taking
up the little thing set it on the table
beside her, smoothing down its pinafore
and its ruffled hair, yellow and fluffy as the
chicken's down, and stopping its wide-mouthed
screams with a kiss and a piece
of cake. Caleb looked on in silence at the
sunshiny homely scene, that ever after
lived in his memory. Last night's trouble
still lay latent in his mind ; he had hardly
spoken that morning. But he looked at
Catherine with a profound melancholy and
tenderness in his eyes, of which she, intent

on her work, remained unconscious. She
was intent on her work; but she had
tied a ribbon in her shining hair, and
through her busiest moment ran the
thought that Will would surely find time
to come that morning and answer her note
in person.

Good-bye, Cathy,' said Caleb at last, '11
try to look in on my way back tomorrow
evening and tell you how I've got on.

Catherine nodded and smiled in answer,
and taking the child on one arm accompanied
her godfather to the farm-yard
gate. Caleb paused when he got there;
he wanted to speak to Catherine before he
left. He wanted to say to her  what?
He himself could not have told. To repeat
the words he had spoken last night? A
weight lay on his heart and brain and held
him silent.

I'm loth to leave you, Catherine,' was
all he said at last.

'Why, godfather, it's only till to-morrow
said Catherine, in some wonder. She stood
lingering with her hand on the latch of the
gate. * Shall you be going near Franklin's
farm, godfather?' she said ; *are you likely,
do you think, to see anything o' Will ?'

Caleb looked up sharply. There is no
form of strong love without its complement
of latent jealousy. It seemed to Caleb all
at once that Catherine thought and spoke
overmuch of Will.

How should I be likely to see anything
o' Will ?' he said. ' Franklin's is more thana
mile t'other side of the high-road, and I
don't know what should take me there.
I haven't forgotten the sort o' welcome I
got the last time I went, though my sister
was living then, and one would have
thought Franklin might ha' found a civil
word to say to his wife's brother.'

He went on his way, vexed with himself
for his own irritation and for the

sharp words he had spoken. The point
on the high-road where he was to meet
the coach was nearly two miles from the
farm. He had allowed himself more than
enough time for the walk ; but avoiding
the intricacies of the lanes, he struck
straight across the moorland by a path
that was little more than an irregular
track, winding at first among low mounds
and dells, soft with sheep-nibbled turf,
strewn with tiny flowers, and then along a
wilder tract of ground, where on one side
it skirted a high broken bank grown over
with furze and bracken, and on the other
overhung the precipitous sides of a deep
sand-pit. Beyond, it dipped down a steep
incline to a marshy bottom, and finally
emerged on the high-road.

Caleb walked on more quickly than was
usual with him, trying to shake off the
discomfort of his nervous irritation. He
had already crossed the stretch of moor-vol.

I. K

laud lying immediately behind the Hill
Farm, and had reached the spot where
the path narrowed above the sand-pit,
when he saw Will coming towards him,
walking briskly in the fresh morning air.
His father was better; and with Catherine's
letter in his pocket, and her words
at his heart, it was impossible, he found,
not to go up to the Hill Farm, in the
hope of seeing her. He was walking along
joyously, now whistling, now breaking into
snatches of song, his head full of the
woman he loved, and of the future that
lay before him. To do Will justice, he
thought most of Catherine ; but it was
only natural that his mind should also
dwell upon himself as Catherine's husband.
For years his best-defined ambition had
been to farm his own lands, to try his
own experiments, to become a gentleman-farmer
; perhaps, who knows ? a squire
even, receiving rents, hunting with his

own horses, taking his place as an equal
among the county gentry. Never had
such ambitions been stronger than since
his return home, since he had found himself
at every turn hampered through want
of money. And now, as master of the
Hill Farm, what might he not accomplish
?

A hundred plans were occupying theyoung
fellow's mind, yes, and worthier thoughts
too  thoughts of how he would henceforward
be a better man than he had ever
been before, more worthy of such a woman
as he knew Catherine to be  when he saw
his uncle approaching, and paused on his
own rapid way to speak to him.

Why, lad, what brings you up in this
direction so early?' said Caleb.  How's
your father ?'

*My father is much easier this morning,'
said Will ; ' more like himself than he's
been for this week past. As to what

k2

brings me here, uncle, I'm on my way to
the Hill Farm, to see Catherine.'

'And whatever need take you to the
Hill Farm at this hour o' the morning ?'
said Caleb, all his irritation instantly revived.
' I should have thought, "Will, that
with your father lying sick at home you
might ha' found something better to do
than be running up to see Catherine at
this time o' day.'

Caleb's tone passed unnoticed by Will ;
indeed, he hardly heard the words ; for a
sudden impulse had come over the young
fellow to tell his uncle everything. Yes,
as Catherine's guardian for so many years,
he had a right to know as soon as possible
what was going on. He answered, therefore,
without making any direct reply to
Caleb.

'Uncle,' he said, getting rather red, 'I
want to speak to you about Catherine and
myself. It's only just settled, or I should

have spoken before ; but I know she would
think as I do, that you ought to know that
I've asked her to be my wife, and that she
has consented '

He stopped, startled by the change in
his uncle's face, as Caleb turned and leaned
back against the bank by which they were
standing.

What ?' he said. ' What's that you're
saying ? Let's hear it again, lad.'

I was saying,' repeated Will, rather
taken aback, ' that Catherine has consented
to be my wife.'

Consented to be your wife ?' said Caleb,
slowly. ' Why, you don't hardly know
each other, you two, not to call knowing.
You didn't see each other for years, till a
few weeks back, and I've hardly seen you
speak to one another. Have sou. and Cathy
been deceiving me ?' he said, in a louder voice,
looking at the young man and frowning.

There has been no deceit in the

matter,' answered Will, with some heat-one
doesn't need to know Catherine long
to love her.'

Love her ?' said Caleb, with a sort of
angry laugh. ' What can a lad like you
know about love ? Why, I love Cathy,
and that's a different kind o' love to yours,
I take it. Do you hear, boy ? I love her,
I tell you.'

Will stared at his uncle. He must certainly
be out of his mind ; that was the
young man's first idea, as all Caleb's queer
ways flashed across him. He kept down his
rising anger, and answered as quietly as he
could.

Of course you love Catherine, uncle,'
he said, ' we all know that ; why, you have
been like a father to her all these years.
That is why I am speaking to you now. I
thought it would not be right to go on
without your consent.'

'My consent to what?' said Caleb. 'I

tell you that I love Catherine, and that's
plain English, ain't it ? And what's your
love to mine ? Tell me that

He raised himself as he spoke and stood
confronting the young man, his stick
planted firmly on the ground, but his
whole frame as he leaned on it, trembling
with passion. Will made no immediate
reply, and Caleb went on with increasing
vehemence.

What's your love compared to mine, I
say ? I've loved Cathy since she was so
high, since she was a little thing as would
come over with her father, and take a sup
out o' my cup and look up smiling in my
face. Why, I loved her when you was
nought but a little chap, getting your
schooling ; and if I only found it out a week
ago, it's because I've been a fool  a fool.
What's a lad like you, that was at your
spelling-book the other day, to know of
love compared to me ?'

Will was confounded by his uncle's
vehemence. If he were mad, there was
reason and coherence in his madness;
yes, and a passion that could assert itself
with overwhelming force. A blind anger
towards a rival such as this took possession
of the young fellow.

A fool ?' he answered. ' I should think
you'd need to be a fool indeed, uncle, to
think of a girl like Catherine. Why,
everyone talks about you as " old Caleb,"
and she looks upon you as a father  as a
grandfather for aught I know.'

Looks on me as a father, does she ?'
said Caleb, in a voice hoarse with passion ;
then I'll act a father's part by her, as you
shall see. She shall not be left at the
mercy of every penniless lad as comes
courting her for her money, and thinks
he'll make a fine thing out o' marrying her.
I'll have a word or two with Cathy before
that comes about. Go your way home, lad ;

not a step nearer to the Hill Farm shall
you go to-day. I've something to say to
Catherine too, and I'll say it. Go home,
I say. Why, damn it all, you're your
father's son after all, I believe.'

Caleb was standing in front of Will
now, barring the narrow path. Will grew
furious. 'No words could have been so
stinging as those just uttered by Caleb.

Are you mad, uncle ?' he cried, ' go to
the farm and welcome. Say what you
like to Catherine; what do I care?
But let me pass  let me pass, I say !'

Will raised his voice as he uttered the
last words, and slightly shifted a small
stick that he was carrying. The action
roused Caleb in his turn to fury.

Would you strike a man old enough to
be your father ?' he cried ; ' why, go to the
devil then  two can play at that game,
my lad.'

He tried to wrench the stick from Will's

hand, but failing, seized him by the collar,
and flung him violently backward. The
young man, unprepared for the attack,
staggered, missed his footing on the narrow
pathway, and fell headlong down the
precipitous bank into the sand-pit below.
The height was considerable, though the
fall was broken here and there by furze
bushes ; at the bottom, half buried in the
sand, lay an old cart overturned ; and as
Will fell, his head struck violently against
one of the iron-bound corners, and he lay
motionless.

For the longest minute in his life, Caleb
watched the strong young hands that
caught desperately at one bush and another
only to lose their momentary hold,
and heard the dull fall below. For another
minute he stood, paralysed by horror
; then trembling, shaken from head to
foot by a chill dread, he made his way
down a little sloping path that led to the

sandpit. He knelt down beside Will ; he
loosened his necktie and raised his head ;
he laid his shaking hand upon his pulse
and heart ; but there was neither sign nor
movement. Will was dead.

It seemed ages to Caleb's stunned consciousness
before he raised himself from
his knees, trying to steady his whirling
thoughts ; but in truth it was not many
minutes. He looked round the lonely
sand-pit, where the morning sunshine lay
warm and clear, and the bees were humming
among the gorse-flowers ; then stood
gazing down on the motionless form at his
feet. He never thought of seeking help ;
he never doubted that Will was dead.
The attitude in which the young fellow
lay, his half-closed eyes and fast-chilling
hands, left no suspense in Caleb's mind on
that point. Moreover, there had been a
momentary deadly meaning in his action,
a purpose not of continuous death, but of

instant, swift vengeance, that must, be
felt, have worked its own fulfilment. And
yet in a minute he knelt  down again,
chafing the cold hands with hands that
trembled so much they could hardly do
his bidding, striving in his despairing terror
to bring back one spark of life ; but in
vain. Will was dead.

Caleb raised himself once more and fora
long time stood motionless, with no immediate
sensation beyond a numbing horror,
a dull wonder at this strange silence, this
sudden quenching of vigorous young life
and manhood ; then with slow unsteady
steps he began to move towards the path
that led from the sand-pit. He moved away,
but with no thought either of concealment
or of flight. Caleb had the instincts of an
honest and simple man, not of a criminal ;
and one moment's action, however desperate,
could not change the traditions of
a lifetime. He had no thought of concealment

; on the contrary, through all the sick
horror that was shaking him from head to
foot, confusing his senses with physical
cold and helplessness, one certainty made
itself felt  that the only thing left to him
now was to confess what he had done before
heaven and earth, and through such
confession expiate his guilt.

It was with this feeling that he roused
himself, making a few steps forward, uncertainly,
like one dazed with dreams,
drugged with sleep, but still with a definite
purpose to tell his story to the first man
he should meet. As he slowly moved away
from Will's side, feeling with his stick ashe
went, he saw an open paper lying on
the ground near him. It was Catherine's
note to Will, which had fallen from his
pocket as he fell. It attracted Caleb's
attention, alive to every trifle, as men's
attention is apt to be in the great crises of
life ; slowly stooping, he picked it up. He

recognised the writing at once, and as his
eyes fell on the concluding words, ' altogether,
and for ever yours, Catherine,' he
dropped the paper with a cry of anguish that
seemed to rend his very soul and scatter
the cloud of bewildered horror that had
confused his thoughts. It was true then,
what Will had said. Catherine loved him ;
yes, it was Will she loved And
he  oh, God ! he had worked not only
the destruction of a life dear to him from
its beginning, but a destruction no less
fatal, that of the happiness of the woman
he loved. As Catherine's grief rose before
Caleb's mind, he was seized with a passionate
despair. What would her life be henceforward
? Her lover was dead ; he lay
there dead ; and her godfather whom she
loved, to whom she would naturally cling
in her sorrow, would stand before all the
world as the slayer of that lover, of one
whom he had loved almost as his own son.

To whom could Catherine turn ? Who
would help and support her when he, her
second father, was pointed at by all men asa
murderer ? Caleb dropped his head on
his hands and groaned aloud in his utter
despair. What retribution could fall on
him that would not be light compared with
Catherine's shame and sorrow when his
deed became known ? . . . . Then let it
remain unknown ; a deed of darkness, let
the darkness of silence cover it. Let him
bear for ever the intolerable weight of a
hidden sin, rather than bring such desolation
upon her young life.

Hardly had Caleb come to this resolution,
striving with a desperate effort to
command his thoughts enough to know
what he must do next, when he heard
voices approaching, and with a sudden
instinctive fear that seemed to blast his
entire life, he hurriedly hid himself behind
a clump of bushes that had taken root in

one corner of the sand-pit. The voices
came nearer, and presently he saw two
men who were bringing down a donkey-cart
by another road to cart away some sand.
Caleb shrank further back into his
hiding-place ; but though he could no
longer see what passed, he could hear.
He could distinguish the sudden pause,
the exclamation of the men as they discovered
Will, the silence as they stooped
down to examine him.

It's young Franklin,' he heard one of
them say at last. ' I know him well ; I've
worked on his father's farm. He must
ha' met with an accident, and slipped down
from the path up there. He were a steady-going
young chap, else I should say he
must ha' been drunk to miss his footing.
It's none so narrow as all that.'

'I've said any time this twenty year
there'd be an accident up yonder, with
neither hedge nor fence above that bit o'

bank,' said the other, in a thick, husky
; ' we'd best take the lad home and
send for a doctor. He's only stunned.'

Nay, he's dead,' said the other man ;
 I can see that well enough. But we'll
take him home none the less, for the cart's
handy, and if the doctor can do him no
good, he can do him no harm neither now.
So lend a hand, will you ?'

They said a few more words in a lower
tone. Caleb, with his intent watching,
could hear their movements as they raised
Will from the ground and slowly retreated.
At last the sound of steps and voices died
away; and in the succeeding silence, he
came out from his concealment and looked
about him.

Then, indeed, a horror of great darkness
fell upon him, as he stood face to
face with what he had done. Will was
gone  a trodden spot on the sand, a blank
space, a deathlike silence settling down,

VOL. I. L

were all that remained where he had been.
For him nothing more could be done or
undone for ever; for himself there remained
to take up his life just where he
had left it one half-hour before, but a life
to be weighed down henceforward by an
awful memory, by an unutterable burden
of secret sin that could never be removed.
Caleb, searching through this darkness
in which the sky seemed to have grown
black above his head, strove to find one
familiar thought from his past world to
help him, and strove in vain. He fell
upon his knees on the sand where he
stood, crying aloud in his anguish,  My
God, my God, help me!' But no answer
came ; only the weight of darkness
seemed to draw closer and closer
round him like a palpable cloud. To a
man like Caleb, who, with no profound
theological views, had yet a simple piety,
a habit of referring his daily actions to

be judged by an invisible standard of
right and wrong, no catastrophe could be
so awful as this sudden hiding of the face
of God, this swift opening of a spiritual
hell in which nothing remained to him of
the faiths of his past but the conviction of
sin, the dread certainty of judgment. Ashe
knelt there on the sand, his whole
frame shivered and trembled under this
terrible sense of the irrevocable, this cutting
off for ever from every hope and joy
and emotion that had constituted his life
so far.

The necessity for action saved him from
madness, as it has saved many a man
before. He thought of Catherine, and the
thought at that moment was salvation ;
for her, something still remained to be
done. Were anyone to find him in the
sand-pit, his presence there would connect
him at once with Will's death, and all that
for Catherine's sake he wished to conceal

l2

would be discovered. Nay, if he wished
to escape suspicion, he Could do no less
than carry out his original intention of

going to L , transact his business

there, and return home the following evening
as he had proposed. Caleb then
slowly gathered himself together ; and
still trembling in every limb, groping
blindly in the bright sunshine, made his
way out of the sand-pit, and with such
haste as he could use, down the steep bit

of moorland beyond. The coach to L

was half-an-hour late, and was just coming
up as Caleb reached the high-road. He
mounted on the top, and was carried on
his way.

He went on his way with the ever-present
vision of the scene in the sand-pit
crossed by another vision, that of the moment
when the lad should be carried over
the threshold of his desolate home. But
Caleb was wrong; Will was never to pass-his

father's door again. Hardly was the
cart well outside the sand-pit, when
the driver pulled up his horse and
paused.

I wouldn't take him to Franklin's farm
neither,' he said to his companion, * it's
nigh upon three mile from this, and old
Franklin's lying ill, so that such a shock
might kill him outright. Best carry him
to the Hill Farm ; it's not above a mile
across the heath, and he's known there. If
there's ought to be done for him, it'll be
done.'

And to the Hill Farm Will was carried.

CHAPTER VIII.

It was near dusk the following evening
when Caleb, with bent head and dragging
footsteps, approached the Hill Farm. The
fever that succeeds a deed of violence was
upon him ; he must know the worst as it
was known to other men ; he could not
keep away. But about the farm all lay
quiet and as usual in the evening light;
the haymakers were returning from their
work, the homely farm sounds were settling
down into the night's rest. Caleb,
who had fought his way through the blackness
of the last thirty-six hours by the
glimmer of hope that had come to him in
the words, * He's only stunned,' felt that

hope strengthen ; longing and dreading to
see Catherine, he made his way into the
kitchen. No one was there but Mrs. Matthews,
standing over a saucepan by the
fire. She turned round and threw up her
hands with a shrill cry when she saw
Caleb.

It's you at last, Caleb Field,' she said.
To think you should ha' been away, to
think of it. Have you heard the news ?
Do you know what's happened to your
own nephew since you left these doors
only yesterday ?'

Ay  I've heard summit,' said Caleb,
in a low voice ; ' but it ain't true  I trust
in God it ain't true. The lad ain't really
dead ?'

Ay, but he is,' said Mrs. Matthews, in
her shrill old tones, beginning to cry.
He's dead, sure enough, poor lad. The
doctor was sent for, and all was done as
should be done ; but there were never any

hope. He must ha* been killed on the
spot, they said ; there weren't a breath o'
life in him when they brought him in.'

Mrs. Matthews put her apron to her
eyes, and lifted the saucepan from the fire.
Caleb seated himself slowly and painfully
in his accustomed seat by the hearth, leaned
forward with his hand shading his eyes,
and so sat silent for a while. Fortune
could not better have favoured his wish
to keep his secret than by giving him this
first interview with Mrs. Matthews. She
was the last person in the world to question
him, or to criticise his behaviour.

How's Cathy?' he said at last, with an
effort.

Catherine takes on so as never was
said Mrs. Matthews, wiping her old eyes.
She were in here yesterday when they
brought the lad in and laid him on the
settle yonder '

She stopped as Caleb sprang to his feet,

bis whole frame convulsed, as by some
violent slack.

'What! here F he said. 'Good God
they brought the lad in here ?'

'Ay didn't you know that, Caleb Field ?'
said the old woman, beginning to cry
again. *twas a matter o' two miles
nearer than to Franklin's farm, so they
brought him here straight. And Catherine,
she were standing here, as might be,
and she were just saying, ' I think I'll go
up to the near meadow myself for an hour,
and if I'm wanted by anyone, you'll know
where I am, granny," when they brought
the lad in, and laid him down on the
settle. And Catherine just stands and
stares for a minute, and then down she
goes on her knees beside him, and flings
up her arms like a mad-woman. And I
says to her, " Catherine, this is neither the
place nor the conduct for a young womanlike
you." And she answers me, "This is

my affair ; you've neither to meddle nor
make here. He was to ha' been my husband
; nobody knew it before, but all the
world may know it now." And so she's
gone on ever since.'

Caleb stood speechless, grasping the
back of the chair with both hands, shaken
from head to foot by this new shock.
Here, under Catherine's own roof, lay her
dead lover  here lay the man whom he
had slain,

 Where where's Catherine?' he said,
speaking at last in hoarse, almost inaudible
tones.

She's with him upstairs,' said Mrs.
Matthews ; ' he's laid out there in the best
sheets, looking handsomer than he ever
did in his life, poor lad, though he were
always a good-looking young fellow, and
Catherine stays by him night and day.
She never undressed last night, nor slept
a wink, I believe. She don't cry and she

don't speak ; every now and then she'll
come wandering down and around like a
ghost, looking about her, but with never
a word, and as if she saw never a thing ;
then up she goes again, and there's
nothings move her. Poor lass, poor lass,
she takes it hard, she do. And I telling
her only two days back she ought to get
herself a husband.'

Caleb made no reply. He stood silent
a while, with bowed head and stooping
form, leaning on the back of the chair ;
then with uncertain steps began to move
towards the door. In a moment he
paused, steadying himself against the corner
of the table.

Where ?' he said again, hoarsely, without
turning his face towards Mrs.
Matthews.

In the corner-room you'll find 'em,'
she said. ' I wanted to have him laid out
in the best bed-room, where my husband

died, for I said, '' It ain't lucky to have
death in every room in the house." But
Catherine, she would have it her own way.'
The corner-room was one that in the
old-fashioned rambling house opened off
an angle of the staircase, and overlooked
the garden. Driven, compelled by that
resistless impulse, that imperious desire
to see and know the worst, Caleb
unclosed the door, and paused upon the
threshold with a sickening shuddering
dread he could not at once overcome.
Two steps led down into the room, with
its low-beamed ceiling and simple farm
furniture. The light had almost left the
lattice, and a dim candle burned on the
table at the further end ; dark-flowered
chintz draped the casement and big armchair,
and curtained the bed ; but on the
side towards the room the curtain had
been drawn back, revealing a white-sheeted
form that lay there on the couch motionless.

Beside it sat Catherine, motionless almost
as itself. She was leaning back in
her chair, her head thrown back, her hands
folded loosely, as though she had dropped
there from exhaustion ; now and then a
slight shiver ran through her, and her pale
face, which seemed to have grown thinner
since yesterday, was fixed in a strange,
strained expression. But as Caleb approached
her at last with his slow, dragging
steps, she moved her head, looking at
him uncertainly for a while as doubting
whom it might be ; recognizing him then,
she mechanically held out one hand towards
him, and turning her face again,
remained motionless as before.

Caleb took her hand, and held it loosely
for a moment in his cold fingers, steadying
himself, meanwhile, by the grasp of his
other hand on the foot-post of the bed.
A strong convulsive trembling shook his
whole frame ; for two minutes he may have

stood thus, his eyes fixed on the ground,
not daring to look on the dead. Will lay
with his head slightly raised on a broad,
lace-bordered pillow, his brown curls fell
on his forehead, he looked hardly more
than a boy ; yes, and on his face now was
something of the boy's candour and simplicity
of expression that had passed from
it otherwise in these later years, mingled
with the strange wisdom of death. When
Caleb at last raised his eyes, he all at once
felt, apart from his miserable remorse, a
despairing sorrow for this young life cutoff,
a yearning love and pity for his sister's
son, for the lad whose growth he had
watched with pride since he was a little
round-checked child. His breast heaved ;
with a half-uttered groan he dropped his
head on his hands and broke into deep
sobs.

His tears relieved the terrible tension of
the moment, but they brought no other

relief; they could do nothings to lighten
the pressure of his load, or shake aside the
blackness that had fallen like a curtain
between him and his old life. But in
Catherine this strong agony of a man's
tears touched a new chord. She began to
tremble, her hands tightened their clasp ;
she too at length burst into weeping, sobs
that seemed to rend her very breast, a
storm of tears raining down upon the
pillow in which she buried her face, as
though to stifle the sound of her despair.

The sight of this passionate, living grief
by the side of Will's still face, that could
not change for all the sorrow of the woman
he had loved, wrought in Caleb a new
anguish. Lifting his hands above his
head 

Would to God,' he cried, ' would to
God, Cathy, would to God, it had been my
life in the stead o' the lad's !'

Catherine heard the words ; Caleb had

been her care and her charge for too many
years for his heartbroken cry not to reach
her even now. Still weeping passionately,
she rose, and putting both arms round
his neck, laid her head on his shoulder, as
if in recognition of their common grief.
Caleb, by a strong effort of the will, stood
rigidly passive under her embrace, that
seemed to scorch him like flame, to brand
him like red-hot iron; for it made no part of
his purpose to betray his guilty shrinking
from her innocent touch. Only he said at
last,

IVe no words to comfort thee with,
Cathy  no words, my lass.'

Catherine loosened her hold ; her arms
dropped from Caleb's neck ; she sank again
into her seat, altogether apart from him,
as he felt in helpless misery. The strained
look on her face had passed with her
weeping, but in its place was utter
despair.

There is no comfort she said, speaking
for the first time.  If it were only my
own sorrow she went on, in broken accents.
' I could bear it, though it's a sore
one ; but it's him I'm thinking of. He's so
young  he never wished to die Oh
it's cruel, cruel '

Ay, it is cruel Caleb answered, in a
low voice ; then suddenly stretching out his
arm, ' Why should it ha' been? ' he cried
passionately,  why should it ha' been allowed
to be?'

He checked himself, fearing to say too
much ; and for a time there was silence.
Then Caleb spoke again.

'You should ha' told me, Cathy,' he
began, in a low uncertain voice, looking ashe
spoke towards Till, as if he too could
hear the words ; yes, if the lad were anywhere
that he could hear, he should know
how sorely his uncle repented. ' You should
ha' told me, my lass, how you and him loved

VOL. I. M

each other. I never guessed it; God help me,
I never guessed it. If I'd known, I should
ha* come to see as how it was the best
thing for you both  yes, I should  if I
hadn't been taken by surprise. But I
never guessed it ; I never saw you much
together, nor thought you'd much to say
to each other. God knows I never so
much as thought of it once.'

Caleb spoke, but his words fell on silence.
Will could not hear, Catherine
heeded him no longer ; he was alone in his
remorse and his despair. He turned, and
in silence left the room.

CHAPTER IX.

Enquiry was diligently made into the
possible cause of Will's death: but no
further light was thrown upon the subject.
There was no reason to suspect foul play ;
the young man had had no enemies, and
his money and silver watch were of course
found untouched. Moreover, when Hodge
the labourer repeated his husky assertion
that he had been expecting an accident to
happen at the old sand-pit any time this
twenty year, there were half-a-dozen
people ready to prove themselves his equal
in prophetic wisdom by stating a similar
conviction. It was then universally accepted
as a fact that the saddest event

M 2

known in Haysted for many years, had
come about through a simple accident.

The funeral was fixed for the following
Sunday. The day before, Caleb went
to the vicarage and resigned his place as
clerk.

for a time, Caleb,' said the Yicar,
kindly, 'we will find a substitute for a
time ; but we cannot consent to part with
you altogether. You are too valuable to
us

No, sir,' said Caleb, ' I must give it up
altogether. I've had a shock, sir, I've had
a shock; I ain't myself, nor ever shall be
again.' He shivered slightly as he sat
leaning forward in his chair, his elbows
resting on his knees, his head bowed on
his hands, a haggard and utterly broken-down
man. The Vicar looked at him in
kindly compassion.

 You take this too much to heart, Caleb,*
he-said. I am aware how great your

affection vas for your nephew, and that the
shock to you must have been a heavy one.
But time will do much to heal your sorrow,
as well as that of others who have more
reason than you even to mourn the poor
fellow's death. And then, as Christians,
we must believe that everything is ordained
for the best, and submit to the will of
Providence.'

*For God's sake, sir, don't talk to me of
the will o' Providence,' said Caleb, suddenly
springing up and standing erect ' It
wasn't the will o' Providence that Will
should die, the best and finest lad in the
country round, and leave my Cathy brokenhearted,
and his father nigh crazed for
want of him. I know better than that,
sir ; and I'm 'thinking there's many things
in the world that ain't for the best, and
with which Providence has nought to do
and then them that's innocent have to
suffer most, and that's a cruel thing  but

it's all a puzzle to me, and I see no way
out of it

Caleb's head sank upon his breast as he
finished speaking. The momentary fire
died out of his eyes and his voice, and h&
stood motionless, his hands resting on the
back of his chair.

Well, Caleb,' said the Vicar, after a
pause, * you are not quite yourself to-day,
and we will not argue the point further; for
I think that you yourself will come to see
in time that submission to God's will is
all that is fitting for us poor mortals, who
can see but a little way into the decrees of
Fate. But I wanted to speak to you about
your goddaughter. I hear that she was
engaged to this poor young man, and is in
much trouble.'

Ay, sir,' said Caleb, in a low voice, ' she's
nigh heart-broken, poor lass  that it should
be so.'

I should be glad to be of use to her if

I could said the Yicar with kindness ; * if I
call this afternoon, shall I find her at home?*

She'll be at home, sir, she don't stir
from the house,' said Caleb, taking his hat
and preparing to go. *I don't know as
she'll see you. She's heart-broken, poor
lass  God help her.'

When Caleb went to the farm, he told
Catherine of the Vicar's intended visit.
She raised her heavy eyes with languor.

Why should he come ?' she said.

He thought you were in grief, Cathy,'
said Caleb, ' and that he might be able to
comfort you, maybe.'

My grief is my own,' she answered ; * no
one can touch it. I do not care for him to
come  unless you would like it, godfather
?' she said, turning to Caleb with
something of her old solicitude.

'No, child,' said Caleb, 'I've seen the
parson, and we've talked together. But
he's got no words to fit me.'

He turned as be spoke, and left Catherine
abruptly. Every day he went up to
the Hill Farm for a few minutes, but fora
few minutes only. He had thought to
comfort Catherine ? A gulf lay between
them, the gulf of his guilty consciousness.
He shunned her eye, he shrank from her
touch, there was torture to him in her
very presence ; and yet a torture that he
went to meet, for it seemed all that was
left to him of life. Who shall say how
he spent the intervening hours in his
desolate house? The door was closed,
the blind drawn over the little window ;
within, a man now shaken by paroxysms
of remorse and grief, now sitting for
hours with a numbed consciousness that
had more of stupor in it than of pain.
The dreaminess habitual with Caleb
became part of his torment now. Torn
from it with violence, forced to face and
to recognise the inexorable truth, each

lapse into oblivion that relieved him for
the time made each new awakening more
terrible. Yet through it all Caleb was
blessed in this, that those years of unselfish
love to Catherine were with him still. Yes, it
was his love for Catherine that roused him
again and again, that braced him to go
forth in his misery and meet the world
like a man. He did not know it ; his past
life seemed to himself to have been burnt
up for ever, to have fallen in ashes in the
devouring flame of that fatal hour. But
past righteousness, like past evil, lives on.
It was Caleb's salvation now.

Old Franklin had had a relapse on hearing
the news of his son's death, which could
not long be kept from him, and lay in a
precarious state ; but all the village, which
had known Will from boyhood, followed
him to the grave on Sunday afternoon.
Catherine was there, though women in

those days rarely attended funerals. It
was her will to go. And Caleb was there
also. Wrung with remorse and helpless
sorrow, he had yet to stand as chief
mourner at his nephew's grave.

When Caleb first understood what was
expected of him, he acquiesced indeed,
but to himself he said he could not do it ;
the horrible irony of the situation worked
on his imagination beforehand; he could
not do it. But when the time came, a
deadness of feeling fell on him, and loss
of realisation that not unfrequently come
to help mortals in the supreme crises of
life. Will's death was ever present with him,
yet now it seemed long ages ago; and this
dismal ceremony of to-day, in which so
many had part, hardly associated itself in
his mind with that tragic moment known
to himself alone. It was his secret that
oppressed him, the sense of separation
from his fellow-kind through the knowledge

hidden in his own breast. How
strange that he alone among them all
should know  surely they too must know.
The desire to proclaim the truth aloud, to
have done, for ever with this intolerable
weight of sin and of isolation, grew on him
from minute to minute. For the burden
of sin lies in that sense of isolation from
God and from man, in the awful loneliness
in which the sinner is set apart.

In the midst of his friendly neighbours
pressing round, Caleb stood an outcast,
and he knew it. Only at the last, catching
sight of Catherine's face as she stood looking
down into the grave, an overwhelming
pang of misery drove out every other
thought. Down there, alas, hidden away
from sight, unfriended and alone, lay the
strong young life that had loved life and
love so well.

The day was wet ; but as the people left
the little graveyard and dispersed, the

clouds began to lift. The people dispersed
talking, along the roads to their own
homes ; whilst Caleb with Catherine at his
side pursued his silent way up to the Hill
Farm. The rain had ceased by the time
the reached the top of the lane and passed
through the farm-gate ; and beyond the
world of clouds and mists, and of wet
fields and meadows they looked out to
where a streak of sunshine was lighting
up the distant hills. Caleb paused before
entering the house.

*See yonder, Cathy he said with the
anxious tenderness that like an incessant
pleading cry, was in his voice always now
when bespoke to her, *the sun's beginning
to shine. We shall have a fine evening
after all, maybe.'

 I wish the sun 'ud never shine again
said Catherine heavily, turning from him
with wrung hands.

Caleb stood silent in this anguish of

seeing her anguish that no word of his
could lighten. Presently Catherine came
back to his side.

I've been thinking what I shall do
godfather she said, *and I've decided to
go down this evening to Franklin's farm.
He's got no one to nurse him but the farm-servants,
and I'll be as good a daughter to
him as I know how.'

As you will, Oath,' said Caleb, in a
low voice. She was drifting further and
further from him ; well, he could stretch
out no hand to hold her.

'I've heard of some one to take old
Martin's place for the present,' Catherine
went on, ' and Mrs. Matthews '11 take care
to keep the house in order. Later on,
maybe, I'll know better what to do. I
can't think now; everything seems broken
and confused.'

Caleb did not answer. He stood looking
out on the landscape, which in the

misty shifting light had in its wide
expanse something of the immensity and
vagueness of the sea ; suggesting too, like
the sea, an infinity of possibilities beyond.
And as he looked, a new thought came into
This mind ; but one that fitted in so well
with some former thoughts, that it became
at once a fixed resolution.

You'll not be wanting me any more
now, Cathy,' he said, 'and that's well, for
I'm going away too.'

'You, godfather,' said Catherine, startled ;
for long, do you mean ?'

say,' he said, * f or a long time, and a
long way off. I'm going abroad, Cathy. My
life's broken up too ; IVe nothing more todo
with Haysted ; and I've a fancy to see
some o' those places again that your father
and me was at together in the year '15.
I shall be off as soon as may be ; and
you'll write to me sometimes, my lass, and
tell me how you're getting on

Caleb spoke in a low voice, but with
composure. Catherine did not at once answer,
but stood at a little distance from
Caleb, looking at him with straining eyes,
that gradually softened into something of
their old tenderness.

'Godfather she said gently, but without
approaching him, 'you re not fit to
go; you're ill now with all this trouble,
and you might get worse in foreign parts
with none to help you but strangers.
Why should you leave us all ? Or, if
you'd rather be away for awhile, let me go
with you and take care of you.'

Caleb shook his head.

'Nay,' he said, * you must stay and look
after Franklin. You're in the right there,
my lass. He'll need somebody now, and
I've no right to stand in his was And
you'll be happier without me, Cathy.
I should only darken your life if I
stayed.'

Nothing could do that she answered,
*all is dark already. Everyone is going
away from me  even you, godfather.'

She stood gazing before her with a hopeless
misery in her eyes, but attempted no
further remonstrance. Caleb took one or
two turns up and down, then came and
stood in front of her.

Cathy,' he said, in a broken voice, * if I
could do aught to comfort or help you, God
knows God knows, my lass, whether
I'd do it. It breaks my heart to see your
sorrow . . . you as ought to ha' been, and
might ha' been, so happy. But I'm not
what I was, and I should darken your life 
God is merciful to such as you, Cathy  I
trust in God that he's merciful to an innocent
sorrow like yours . . . and by-and-by,
when you come to see it, I won't be there to
come between Him and you again, maybe.'

Caleb's voice sank till the last words
were almost inaudible. He took Catherine's

hand as once before, and stood looking
at her with an inexpressible yearning
in his eyes. 'God bless thee, Catherine
he said ; and was gone.

Catherine started and moved forward a
step or two. ' Godfather !' she cried. But
Caleb was gone.

YOL. I.

Part III.

Ten years later, a figure strange to Haysted
was seen making its way along the
village street, towards the close of an autumn
day. In the failing light it could
be distinguished only as that of a thin old
man very much bent, who walked feebly,
pausing now and again and leaning on his
stick, as though to rest. A lad standing
at one of the cottage doors reported that
he had seen that same figure in the afternoon
crossing the fields in the direction
of the Hill Farm. He knew him again,
he said, by the queer cut of his hat and

coat, the like of which he had never
seen before; and he took him to be a
foreigner, for he had a knapsack on
his back and looked as if he had
walked a long distance. So said the
lad, and his listeners heard with doubt
and some suspicion ; for what should
bring a foreigner to Haysted? The
children were all at their supper or
being put to bed ; else the stranger might
have had a troop of them at his heels ashe
passed along the street in the direction
of the Vicarage. As it was, only a cur
flew out and barked at him.

Caleb Field looked strange to Haysted,
for in these years his dress and outward
appearance had conformed itself with that
of his neighbours in the little Belgian
village where he had been living and
working. Bat Haysted had no strangeness
for him, beyond the strangeness that
attends a rush of familiar associations on

na

mind grown apart from its old self. He
paused now and then, but it was less for
the sake of rest  though of that he stood
sorely in need  than to satisfy his passionate
thirst to look again upon the objects
dear to him from infancy; to take in, even
in the twilight, the familiar outline and
colouring of the brown walls and red roofs,
the trees yellowing and strewing their
leaves before the autumn blast, the old
church-tower grey against the grey background
of the misty autumn sky. Once
he retraced his steps and stood motionless
for a while ; it was before the little
window jutting out into the street,
the window of his home, where he had
been used to sit and work. A light
shone behind the red curtain ; even
as he looked, the house-door burst
open and two boys with shouts of glee
came tumbling out, and stood to stare
mutely at the stranger until a woman's

shrill voice recalled them. The door
slammed to ; then the curtain was withdrawn
for a moment, a face looked out,
the well-known interior was revealed.
The two boys were settling themselves
noisily at the supper-table ; the table still
stood in the centre of the room ; a fire
burned on the little hearth and shone
warmly on the whitewashed walls. But
neither hearth nor table held a welcome
for Caleb now. God ! to what a lost world
it all belonged. With one of those pangs
that anticipate death, he turned away,
and paused no more till he reached the
Vicarage.

He gave his name, and was shown into
the Yicar's study. A little, soft-haired
girl, the pet granddaughter of the house,
was building bricks in one corner ; she
gazed with wide-open eyes and ran out of
the room, frightened by the strange old
man who looked at her with a pathos she

could not understand from beneath ibis
white eyebrows. In a few minutes the
door opened again, and the Yicar himself
appeared. He also had aged, had grown
a little bent and withered in these last ten
years ; but he looked hale, ruddy, and
erect by the side of the broken-down man
who rose at his entrance.

Sit down, sit down,' said the Yicar,
compassionately, shaking hands with him,
I am glad to see you again in these parts,
Caleb. I have heard of you from time to
time through your goddaughter, Catherine
Bligh, and I was afraid you had given up

Haysted altogether But you look ill,

Caleb ; the journey has been too much
for you, I fear.'

Ay, sir, I'm very ill,' Caleb answered
I haven't long to live. The doctor told
me that before I left, and that's how I
come to be here to-day. For there's something
I must say before I die, and I'd

sooner say it, sir, to you whom I've known
most o' my life, than to a stranger

You must have something to eat first,
Caleb,' said the Vicar, rising to ring the
bell, *you look quite exhausted. I will
order some supper to be sent in here.'

'No, sir, thank you kindly,' said Caleb,
I couldn't eat anything, and I had a cup
o' tea up at the Hill Farm ; Catherine saw
to that. I'm strong enough for what I
have to say.'

Caleb's voice in fact, though low, was
calm, and his manner collected. He waited
a minute while the Vicar seated himself
again ; then he began.

You remember, sir,' he said, ' about
this time  'twere in June, though  ten
years ago, when I gave up the clerk's
place and went away, right out o' Haysted ?*

Surely, Caleb,' the Vicar said, ' it was
just after your nephew's death. That was
a great shock to you, I remember.'

 Ay  a very great shock,' Caleb answered,
' and you'll remember, sir, about the
lad's death, how everyone thought it was
an accident ?'

Surely, Caleb,' the Yicar said again, * it
was an accident, and a very sad one. It is
not forgotten in Haysted, I can assure
you. I never knew a finer nor more
promising young man.'

He was, he was,' said Caleb. His head
dropped for a moment. I think sometimes,'
he went on, in a lower voice, ' what
he'd ha' been by this time if he'd lived ;
there's nothing can ever make up for that
nothing. And it wasn't an accident . .
I could never tell before; thank God, I
can tell it now. 'Twas me that did it, and
have had the lad's death heavy on my soul
this ten year past.'

*You, Caleb,' said the Vicar, startled,
but incredulous. He thought his old clerk
the victim of some morbid delusion ; such a

case had come within his experience before.
Caleb answered the tone, if he failed to
detect the thought.

I did it he said, solemnly. He drew
a long breath and sat silent a while, his
hands spread out on his knees, his eyes
fixed on the ground.  I was fond o' Will
always,' he went on, presently,  and if herd
come by his death as you, sir, and all the
neighbours thought, I should ha' mourned
the lad sore. But that wouldn't have drove
me away from my home and my work and
all that I loved best, to go and live among
strangers  not but what they was kind tome,
very kind.'

Caleb's head dropped again, and again
he was silent for a moment.

No,' he went on ; ' there was worse
than that, there was worse. It all happened
ten years ago, and there's not
been a day hardly since then that I haven't
gone over it in my mind. I'd been sleeping

up at the Hill Farm  for I had to

meet the coach to L in the morning

and as luck would have it, I took
the path by the old sand-pit. Presently, I
see Will coming along ; and we stopped
and had some talk. No matter now what
it was about ; but something the lad said
angered me. He were hot-tempered, and
I was an old fool, and so we had words
together. He had a bit of a stick in his
hand, and he shifted it, so ; and I thought
he were sfoino to strike me. I don't believe
now he'd ha' done such a thing ; but
I thought it then, in my anger, and seized
him by the collar and flung him away.
His foot slipped, and he went off that
narrow bit o' pathway there, over into the
sand-pit. When I got down to him, I found
that he were dead.'

Caleb paused. The Vicar, with conviction
growing in his mind, said nothing,
but waited for him to speak again.

He were dead,' Caleb repeated. ' No
matter how I felt . . . But I had no
thought o' concealment then, sir  not till
I thought of Cathy. I knew that she and
Will cared for each other, and I thought
to myself, the lass'll be heart-broken
enough when she hears that her lover
is dead ; but when she knows that it's
me, her old daddy  for that's how she
always thought o' me  as has done it, it
will kill her outright. So I made up my
mind that I'd say nothing, and try to be a
comfort to her, as had no other comfort
left  but it were no good  there was
always something as came between us 
and she felt it too, I know she did, though
she didn't know what it was.'

Caleb ceased speaking, and sat with his
hand shading his eyes. The Yicar too was
silent for a moment.

'Your revelation has been so startling
and unexpected, Caleb,' he said at last ;

*it has taken me so completely by surprise,
that I hardly know with what words
to meet it. How far you were guilty in
intention of your nephew's death, you
alone can tell ; but of this I feel sure,
that it is only through such a confession
as you have made to-night, that you can
find true comfort and peace.'

'Comfort and peace,' repeated Caleb,
slowly. ' If it had been them as I was
thinking of, I might ha' told the whole
truth years ago, as I've longed to do many
a time, so as none can tell but them as
has had a sin lying hidden and heavy on
their soul. And I won't be deceiving you
now, sir. I ain't come here with any
notion o' delivering myself up to justice.
I don't know what the law 'ud do to me;
but i I hadn't known that I haven't
enough life left in me for it to take hold
of, I shouldn't be here to-night. I'd no
more bring sorrow and disgrace into my

Cathy's life now than I would ten years
ago. No, it ain't that; it's that I want
you, sir, to tell my Catherine the whole
story when I'm dead and gone, and when
it won't grieve her too much. You'll tell
her, sir, so that it won't grieve her too much
you'll tell her,but she'll know that well
enough, there's been never a moment since,
that I wouldn't ha' given my life for the
lad's, if that could ha' been. But I couldn't
bear, if we should ever chance to meet
in the next world, to know there's that
between us still, or that she should think
I went to my grave meaning to deceive
her. If you'll tell her all, sir, she'll forgive
me  I know she'll forgive me.'

My poor fellow  ' began the Vicar ; but
Caleb went on, in a voice that for the first
time became high and tremulous.

Perhaps I've been all wrong, sir 
perhaps I've held myself to be o' too much
account ; but that's been my feeling.

When I went away ten years ago, I
thought I'd ruined her life as it was ; but
I might ha' known better than that  I
might ha' known my Cathy better. She's
the sort of woman as would turn her life
to good, whatever happened. I heard
from her, sir ; she wrote to me often.
She told me as how she'd brought old
Franklin home to live with her at the
Hill Farm, and how, when he died, she'd
taken in first one little orphan, and then
another, till she'd made a home for little
things as had no other home to look to.
And she said to me to-day, " Godfather,"
she said, " that time you went away I
was nigh crazed, I think, and there was
nought but blackness before me. But I
see now how I was wrong and where I
was wrong." When she said that, sir, I
knew I hadn't done her all the harm I
might ha' done. Only as I came away,
and saw her standing in the gate with the

little ems all about her, and one clinging
to her neck, I knew  I knew that I'd cut
her off '

Caleb's voice broke and died away ; he
sank back in his chair exhausted. The
Vicar rose and rang the bell.

You are tired out, Caleb,' he said ; Sewell
talk no more to-night. You will
sleep here, and tomorrow you can say
anything further you may wish, and I will
give you what help I can.'

'Thankyou kindly, sir,' Caleb said, sandford
listening to me as you have done. I don't
know as I've much more to say  only that
you should repeat it all to Catherine.'

He sat motionless, whilst the Vicar
left the room. Presently returning, he
showed Caleb up into a little white bedroom,
where for that night he could
sleep in peace. An arm-chair stood by
the bedside; before it was a small table
with a candle. Caleb sat down wearily in

the arm-clair, leaning forward on to the
table. The Yicar lingered before leaving
the room. In his first surprise and perplexity,
he had perhaps not said all that
he might.

My poor fellow he said again,  I cannot
doubt that your repentance is sincere ;
all that you have said to-night proves it.
But if any words of mine can help you 
or, better still, you will find here words

that cannot fail ' He placed his hand

as he spoke on a Bible that lay on the
table.

Caleb looked up.

Thank you, sir,' he said ; ' I won't say
but I've come to read my Bible again in
these last years ; but it seems to me somehow
as if it weren't for me to speak about
it  as if what I'd found there lay between
God and myself.'

He said no moreland the Yicar went away.
The next morning, when he followed a

servant into the room, be found that
Caleb had slightly altered his position.
He was leaning back in the arm-chair
now, his head resting on the cushion ; the
candle had burnt down to its socket,
and the bed was slept in. Caleb was
dead.

It all happened nearly sixty years ago.
It is an old story now; only a tradition of
the truth lingers in the village where the
events took place. But three graves still
rise side by side in a sunny corner of the
little churchyard ; and the same green and
daisies coverlet that shelters Will and
Catherine spreads itself over Caleb. Side
by side they lie together; for so Catherine
willed it.

VOL. I.

on

AN INN GARDEN,

That time, O times ! '

' I REMEMBER the girl as if I had seen

her yesterday said Madame Sophie E .

I do not know her history ; I have never
seen her again. But what I do know, I
will relate to you, since you wish to hear
it :

IS'ot far from the city of L lies a

little inn garden by a river. It is now
some years since circumstances obliged me

to spend a twelvemonth in L . I am

not used to the life of a great city. I found

little in it to please me ; and it was with
delight that I one day accidentally discovered
this garden, to which I could go with
so much ease that I henceforward found
myself in it again and again. A 
by train brought me to a small
station, at which I alighted. A brief space
of dusty high-road then lay before me, still
bearing traces of the adjacent city in mean
houses, in ragged wayside weeds whitened
by the dust or splashed by the mud raised
by a hundred carts and waggons that daily
lumbered along to the city gates, in frequent
wine-shops and a half-listless folk,
in all the shabby life, lacking the characteristics
of town and country alike, which
clings about the outskirts of a great town.
But a sudden turn led at once to a scene
that had every charm which absolute peace
among rural surroundings can give. A
deep winding lane ended in a quiet little
inn set between poplars and green hedges*

Cocks and hens were for ever pecking
about the grass-grown threshold of the
open door, or straying into the passage
that ran through the house ; ducks quacked
and straggled to and from a shallow pond ;
pigeons cooed ; the deep resonant bark of
a chained house-dog announced every newcomer.
An atmosphere of homely country
life, in short, lay about the place ; it
seemed to me that I had come upon a
paradise of peace and sunshine and quiet,
when I first discovered the little inn in its
sheltered nook. A trellised vine was trained
above the door in front, and behind the
house lay the garden of which I have
spoken. It was a long strip of ground
shut in on either side by high bushy hedges
and rustling poplars There was no turf,
and hardly any flowers brightened the uniform
green ; only a few straggling roses, a
few bushes of rosemary set in some plots
of thrifty vegetables near the house. Lower

down, green vine-covered berceaux afforded
a cool shelter from the sun ; and at the
extreme end of the garden, divided from it
only by a low ivy-grown wooden palisade,
ran a river which gave the whole place its
character and its charm. It was not a
wide or rapid river : on the contrary, it was
a gentle stream, so narrow that every wildflower
growing among the deep grass in
the opposite meadow could be seen from
the garden; so quiet, that its unruffled
surface had almost the glassy surface of a
pool, and its clear depths reflected each tree
and bush, each blade in the fringe of grass
that overhung it from the high banks,
each leaf of the water-plants its tranquil
current hardly stirred. Above and below
the little inn the river made a bend ;
willows and elms closed in the prospect,
and added the charm of the mysterious
beyond to the deep seclusion of the scene.
Immediately opposite the garden lay a

breadth of verdant meadow-land shut in
by rising ground behind, by trees on either
side ; red and white cows sometimes wandered
there, or came down to where a break
in the overhanging bank had allowed a
muddy path to be trodden to the river's
edge. For sunlight and shadow, for peace
and the suggestions of peace, for coolness
and verdure, and silence unruffled except
by the inarticulate murmur of ripple and
birds, I know of no spot to equal my little
river garden.

And I describe it minutely, for it is inseparably
connected in my mind with the
girl whom I saw there for the first and
last time.

I visited it often through that long hot
summer ; I made friends with the hostess ;
1 sometimes dined there and sat through
long afternoons, reading and writing at one
of the green tables set about in shady
corners. I even thought at one time of

leaving the city altogether during those
sultry months, and of establishing myself
at my little inn ; a fresh white curtain
swaying to and fro in an upper casement
seemed to promise an equally fresh interior
; a cool retreat with a verdant prospect
of trees and green-shadowed water. But
on reflection I gave up this idea. I feared
to miss part of the charm of my garden in
becoming familiar with it, in losing the
sense of contrast between the hot roads
and its leafy freshness, in bringing the
dusty cares of every-day life to desecrate
this tranquil nook. One grows an
epicure in these matters, as one grows
old ; a naive pleasure, a fresh impression
becomes a treasure to be hoarded, not
recklessly used or flung aside after the
careless fashion of youth. Therefore resolved
to stay in the city ; and I was confirmed
in this resolution by a certain
Sunday afternoon excursion that I made

to the little inn. Alighting from a crowded
train and issuing from the station, I
found the road lively with carts and public
vehicles filled with young men and city
maidens ; and long before I reached my
garden, the sound of loud voices, of song
and laughter, warned me of what I should
find. I looked and fled. I did not
grudge them the garden, Heaven knows.
It was I who was out of place. But,
since it was quiet I had come to seek, I
fled.

It was more than a week before I went
again. I arrived early and found, as was
not unfrequently the case, that I had the
garden to myself. It was drawing towards
the end of the summer, and the
mellow sunlight, the sense of ripeness in
the air, gave, as I remember, something
more of repose to the quiet spot. I seated
myself in my favourite corner ; the hostess
happened to be absent, but the little maid

served me my usual noonday meal oE
coffee and eggs. I arranged my books and
writing materials on the little table before
me and on the bench at my side, and was
looking forward to a long and peaceful
afternoon, when two new-comers entered
the garden and arrested my attention.

At the first glance, indeed, I took them
to be merely such a bourgeois couple as
sometimes strayed in there to breakfast ;
but a closer observation made me change
my opinion. The man who was tall, fair, and
handsome, was no bourgeois. His hands,
in one of which he carried a pair of dog-skin
gloves, were white, with carefully
kept nails, and a plain seal ring on one
finger ; his coat was well cut ; he had an
air of ease and good society. The girl,
who was quite young, wore a neat pink
cotton gown, rather faded in the wash,
with a white muslin bow carefully tied
under her linen collar ; on her head,

when sbe entered the garden, was a little
white net bonnet with pink ribbon strings,
a trifle faded like her gown ; but this she at
once removed and hung up on the branch of
a tree, showing some thick twists of dark
hair. She was slight, and she was also
pretty, but more through colouring and
expression perhaps, than through feature ;
her cheeks had a charming natural bloom,
set off by her pink gown ; her eyes, which
were small rather than large, shone with a
brilliant fitful light under their dark
lashes j she had a determined, almost
stubborn-looking mouth and chin, and not
at all a classic nose. Her hands, which
were gloveless, were pale and smooth as
those of city girls used to a sedentary life
are wont to be, but neither well-shaped
nor well-kept : on one finger she wore a
cheap coral ring.

They had given their orders apparently
on their way through the house, and sat

down at one of the little green tables to
await the arrival of their meal. My presence
did not seem to disturb them in the
least; though as they had placed themselves
just opposite me, I was near enough
to hear every word they said. Their conversation,
in fact, was unintelligible tome,
as it turned almost exclusively on
persons and incidents well-known to both,
with rapid passing allusions to one thing
and another. It was the girl who talked
most ; leaning forward a little, her arms
folded on the table, she spoke with great
vivacity ; whilst her companion lounging
back in his chair, with his hands ia his
pockets, responded by an occasional word
and nod. Now and then she sprang up
and mimicked a gesture, a step, a movement
; then reseating herself, talked on
as before. The restless gaiety of her
manner, in which there was no affectation
and which yet seemed to me not altogether

natural, contrasted with the immobility of
her companion. She laughed a good deal,
whilst he hardly took the trouble to smile.
All the effort and exertion of the conversation
were on her side.

She paused at last in her eager talk, and
sat silent for a moment leaning back in
her chair, her hands clasped behind her
head, her bright eyes gazing before her :
then jumping up, she began to flit about
the garden with the half-springing step
and inconsequent movements of a child.
Espying a solitary flower on a climbing
rose, one of the few roses which the
garden produced, she sprang to get it and
failed ; it hung too high overhead. She
desisted after one or two attempts, and the
man, who had been watching her, slowly
rose and went to the spot. He was tall,
as I have said, more than a head taller
than she was, and reached it without
difficulty.

Here is your rose,' he said, holding it
towards her.

She did not at once take the flower.
She had torn her finger with a thorn and
was holding it in her mouth. ' Give me
your handkerchief,' she said in a moment.

He drew a handkerchief from his
pocket and gave it to her. It was a cambric
one, with an initial embroidered in one
corner. The girl took it ; then using her
teeth as scissors, she cut the edge of the
hem, tore off a long strip that included the
initial, and wound it round her finger.

There !' she cried, in a joyous voice.

Whoever embroidered that for you, will
never have her work used by you again.'

I have not an idea who worked it,' he
answered. 'You, perhaps. One buys
them by the dozen.'

I don't do embroidery,' she said, rather
curtly. She took the rose from his hand.

This is mine ?' she said. * Well, then, I

give it to you. It was for you I wanted
it.'

She put it in his button-hole, and felt
for a pin with which to fasten it securely,
but could not find one.  No matter,' she
said, * it will hold. Now promise me one
thing  that you will keep it always.'

He looked down at the flower.
Always ? This rose ?' lie said. ' Do
you know what a dead rose looks like ?
Like that '  picking one from the rose-tree.
* What on earth should I keep a
thing like that for ?'

She laughed. ' Well, give me that she
said, snatching the dead rose from his
hand and thrusting it inside her frock.
Now, we've each got one ; and if I keep
mine, you might keep yours.'

I don't in the least want you to keep
it,' he answered ; ' but do if you like.
You're always rather sentimental, you
know.'

VOL. I. P

Vm not : you know Vm not, ' she
cried. * But I suppose one may have
feelings.'

No, don't,' he said, walking away towards
the table again. This scene had
passed so close to me, that I had inevitably
heard every word that was spoken ; and
now, as her companion turned his back on
her, I saw a look of anguish that momentarily
whitened her cheeks come into the
girl's face. She stood motionless, her brows
drawn together, her fingers tightly interlaced,
struggling apparently to master
some strong passion or emotion. She succeeded.
In another moment the blood
came rushing back, her fingers unlocked ;
with a snatch of song, and the same gay
springing step as before, she ran up the
garden to meet the white-capped maid who
was advancing with a tray.

Here is our breakfast,' she cried. ' And
I am hungry. What have you ordered "

Chocolate, I hope, and galette and an
omelette.'

They sat down together just within the
shadow of one of the vine-covered berceaux,
precisely opposite to where I still kept my
seat and my book. Between us lay only
the garden path, flooded by the hot midday
sun. The girl interested me, and as
it was they who had chosen their position
I found no indiscretion in keeping the seat
1 had previously held. Their repast lasted
a long time. I observed, however, that,
whilst her companion made an excellent
meal, the girl, who had declared herself
hungry, touched hardly anything. The
delicacies she had desired, appeared, and
she allowed herself to be helped from each
dish in turn ; but she employed herself in
feeding a cat and dog belonging to the inn,
who had come and seated themselves, one
on either side of her. Her gay mood had
changed a little ; she talked less and looked

p2

more at her companion, who did not look
much at her, but rather at the plates and
dishes before him.

We are extremely dull,' he said at last,
taking out his watch, ' and we may have
to spend an hour yet in this hot little hole
of a garden. I shall go and order some
champagne.'

He rose as he spoke and walked away
towards the inn. The rose, loosely fastened
in his button-hole, fell out as he moved.
He did not notice it, but the girl did. She
picked it up, pressed it with a passionate
gesture to her lips, then thrust it hurriedly
inside the bosom of her frock, pressing
both hands tightly over it with an energy
that brought the varying colour to her
cheek with a rush. When her companion
returned, she was idly tracing a design
with her forefinger in some spilt red wine
on the green table. He glanced down at
his coat.

Where is my rose?' he said.

Have you lost it ?' she answered, without
looking up.

 I suppose so  I had it a moment ago
He looked down and about him on the
dusty ground. She also stirred slightly,
and with the point of her shoe moved aside
the leaves that clustered at the foot of the
vine trellis. He resigned himself.

You will have to get me another he
said.

Never,' she answered, leaning back in
her chair with folded arms, and looking at
him with a smile at once defiant and provoking.
 I will never give you a rose
again.'

He shrugged his shoulders slightly. ' As
you will,' he said ; ' I shall not die for want
of a rose.'

She looked at him for a moment in
silence. ' Die !' she said then. '1 believe
you will never die, unless it be of old age.'

Thank you for the prophecy,' he said,
laughing, ' and may you prove a true
prophet. Here ; let us drink to your old
age and mine.'

The champagne had been brought; ho
filled a glass and passed it to her. She
just touched it with her lips ; then springing
to her feet, held it aloft, whilst in a
clear untaught voice she sang a drinking
song, which an opera recently the fashion
had made popular. Her companion, who
was smoking, joined in the chorus with a
lazy hum, watching the while, with half-closed
eyes, the rings of smoke that he
puffed into the air. She sang the song
through ; at the end, whether by accident
or intention, I do not know, the glass fell
crashing to the ground.

Bravo ! bravo !' said her companion.
Excellently well sung ! But you have
lost your wine.'

He pushed his own glass towards her

as he spoke. She took no notice of it,
but dropping into her chair, sat with her
elbows on the table, her chin propped
on her hands, gazing before her into
vacancy.

Do you know what I should like better
than anything in the world ?' she said,
suddenly turning to her companion.

What ?' he answered.

To go once, only just once, to a box at
the opera.'

Well, I will take you,' he said.
You will ?' she cried, eagerly. ' Oh,
when ?'

To-morrow night.'

She sprang to her feet again, clapping
her hands. * To-morrow night  do you
mean really tomorrow night ?'

Certainly I mean it,' he said. * I will
take a box tomorrow, and call for you in
the evening.'

She stood looking at him, her hands

clasped as though in ecstasy. All afc once
a shade stole over her face.

This dress,' she said, looking down at
it and lifting a frill, ' it will not do  and
it is the only one I have.'

Oh, it will do well enough,' he answered,
carelessly ; ' put a flower in your hair.
You always look charming, you know.*

But I want to go to a large box,' she
said, her eyes widening a little with a look
of anxiety, ' in the centre of the house,
where I can see every one and be seen.'

Yes, yes, I understand ; but you will
do very well. You can put a rose in your
hair.'

The dead rose,' she said, with a laugh.

What do you mean ?' he said, frowning
a little.

Oh, nothing,' she answered ; ' see, here
is some one come to speak to you.'

She turned quickly round as she spoke
the last words, and stood with her back to

him, her hand pressed tightly on her heart.
The little inn-maid had approached once
more to tell the gentleman that his horse
and servant had arrived and were waiting.

I must go,' he said, with a certain
alacrity. He paid the bill that the maid
had brought, and rose.

You don't mind staying here alone till
the train goes ?' he said, as he buttoned up
his coat and drew on his gloves.

JSTot in the least  oh, not in the least
she answered ; ' it is only half-an-hour,
you know

Then I will be off at once. I have no
time to lose.'

He took up his hat, but still lingered a
moment, as though he hesitated to say
some final word. It was she who spoke
it.

Till tomorrow evening, then,' she cried,
in her clear, childish voice. ' You will call
for me ?'

*Yes, yes; that is it he said, with an
air of relief, and putting on his hat. ' I
will call for you.'

They walked up the path together  she,
with her springing steps, at his side.
About half-way up the garden she paused,
and without any formal farewell apparently,
allowed him fco go on alone, whilst she
stood, one hand shading her eyes, the
other pressed on her heart, in a way that
seemed habitual with her. He walked on
up to the inn, but before entering it,
turned and looked back. Instantly the
girl started from her attitude, waving and
kissing both hands in a sort of joyous
adieu, till he had turned again and passed
out of sight. One minute longer she stood,
whilst a sound of horses' hoofs could be
heard retreating up the lane, fainter and
fainter in the distance. Then she turned.
Gropingly, as though blinded by the sunlight,
she made her way to the table again.

and fell back in a chair as though sbe had
been shot.

I thought she had swooned, so colourless
was her face, so motionless her closed
eyelids and loose hanging hands. I went
up to her, and raised her head, which had
fallen back against the wooden framework
of the berceau. She had not fainted, for
she roused herself at the touch and sat
up, leaning forward, her head and chin
raised a little, her arras straight and rigid,
her hands tightly clasped, like one in a
paroxysm of anguish.

'Oh, I can't bear it  I can't bear it '

she said, as if the words were wrung from
her.

*You are suffering. Can I not help
you ?' I said, trying to take one of her
cold hands in mine. But she resisted the
attempt, though I believe she was hardly
conscious of my presence.

Oh, I can't bear it ' she repeated

with a moan, and sat motionless for a
moment, gazing before her with blank eyes.
Suddenly she started to her feet, and
made a step or two forward in the direction
of the house ; but her strength failed.
She caught at the table to support herself,
and sank back again in the chair with the
same deathlike pallor as before. Unable
to guess the cause of her misery, I could
yet divine by her utter prostration now
what the last hour must have cost her.
The wine still stood on the table. I poured
out a glass, and held it to her lips. She
tasted it, then sat up, and drank it eagerly.
It revived her, if only to a keener
anguish ; it gave her the power and the
will to speak.

I never wished him good-bye,' she said,
in heart-broken accents. ' I might have
said one word ; and now it is too late. I
shall never see him again.'

She wrung her hands in bitter regret or

self-reproach. No one could see a fellow-creature
held by such mortal anguish as
hers, without striving to find the clue toit.


Who is it you will never see again ?' I
said. "Not your friend who has just left
you ? Is he not to take you to the opera
tomorrow night ?'

Oh, the opera ' she said, clasping

and unclasping her fingers. ' He was so
anxious to deceive me, he forgot. There
is no opera now.'

It was true, though I also had forgotten
it. There was no opera at that season.
In a moment she began to speak again,
rapidly and excitedly.

He thought to deceive me, but I deceived
him,' she said. ' He could never
have guessed that I knew. He would
have hated me, if I had made a scene.
He used to like me, he said, because I was
always bright ; and he will remember me

bright. I was just the same to him to the
very last, though I knew I should never
see him again.'

She paused. Even then, though her
words were addressed to me, I doubt if
she were fully conscious of my presence.
She never once looked at me, or turned
her eyes in my direction.

show did you know?' I asked her at
last.

I was told,' she said, more absently ;
'and I inquired, and found it was true.
When he asked me to come here to-day,
I knew it was for the last time, and knowing
what T did, his manner told it me too.
We have often been here,' she went on, a
little wildly, looking round her. 'This
frock  it was new the first time we came
and he said he liked it better than any
dress he had ever seen.' She started to
her feet again, both hands pressed with
the familiar gesture on her heart. ' Oh,

I can't bear it  I can't bear it ! ' she
cried.

We were interrupted. 'Lisa, I have
come !' cried a voice from the upper end
of the garden.

A young woman, poorly clad in a dingy
brown gown and shawl, came running
towards us with outstretched hands.

Is he gone ?' she cried, breathlessly.

I do not know what moved the girl.
"Was it the outspoken question acting like
a visible presentment of her woe, or the
familiar apparition of her friend recalling
too vividly the dusty gloom of the work-a-day
life to which she was about to return?
For one moment she stood looking at her
with startled eyes ; the next, with one
swift rush she had reached the end of the
garden, had cleared the low palisade, and
sprung into the river. So swift was her
movement that we heard the splash and
noted the meeting waves, whilst still too

stiffened with horror to move from the
spot.

She was rescued instantly. Just below
the garden a little wooden platform, supported
by piles driven into the bank,
projected into the stream, and made a
mooring-place for a boat. The boatman
a strong-built, elderly man, was there,
preparing to loosen his little bark. He
heard the plunge. As the girl rose, he
caught at her dress with his hook, and
with his sturdy arms lifted her out of the
water. Almost by the time we had reached
the bottom of the garden, she was standing
beside us again in the sunny path,
dazed, dripping, half-stunned, but otherwise
not the worse. She stood still in
the centre of the path, and looked down
at her mud-stained frock.

'It is a good thing it will wash,' she
said in a minute, with a laugh.

Her friend put her arm in hers and

tried to draw her towards the inn ; but
she resisted, and freed herself from the
grasp. She stood shivering in the bright
sunshine, pushing back her long hair,
loosened and streaming with wet, from her
face. The man, with a shrug of his shoulders,
had gone back to his boat. No
alarm had reached the house; we three
were alone. All at once the girl dropped
on to a bench close bj, and broke into an
agony of weeping. Five minutes before,
I doubt if she could have shed a tear ;
now the cold, the clinging wet of her garments,
the physical wretchedness and discomfort,
had touched a lower chord of
misery, and she wept aloud, convulsively,
rocking herself to and fro with despairing,
heart-broken sobs. Her friend, meanwhile,
stood beside her. She was a pallid,
rather sullen-looking young woman, with
a worn face. She did not speak, but put
her arm round the younger girl, who
VOL. I. , (J

turned presently and hid her face against
her friend. In another minute she rose,
and suffered herself to be led away to the
house.

I followed them, but only to desire the
maid to see to their comfort and give
them anything they might need. Then I
returned to my afternoon's work. I cannot
say I did much. Shaken and startled
by the scene I had just witnessed, my
thoughts were with the girl who had
roused in me an interest so sudden and so
deep. I did not go to her. Involuntarily
I had been an intruder in a tragic hour of
her life ; the recognition that the intrusion
had not been unwelcome lay with her ;
and with her friend at hand I knew she
would not feel herself helpless or deserted.
Still I was unwilling to go away without
seeing her once more. The hours passed :
the girl's bonnet still hung on the tree
where she had tied it in the morning, and

by this sign I knew that she and her companion
had not yet left the inn. Towards
evening, when I was preparing to take my

departure, the bonnet was fetched ; and rei


turning to the house, I met the two in the

passage, and found that they proposed
returning to the city by the same train as
myself. The girl looked pale and languid
and disinclined to speak. The pink cotton
was clean and dry again, her dark hair
was neatly coiled ; but the pretty colour
was gone from her cheeks, the light
had died out of her eyes ; her frock hung
about her in limp folds, and the crisp
white muslin bow, which had given the
last touch to her dress, had disappeared.
All the freshness was gone from her toilette
of the morning as it was gone from
herself.

Her friend, I fancied, kept a sort of
jealous guard over her, and we travelled
back to the city in different carriages.

q2

But on arriving I sought her out before
leaving the station. The interest she had
awakened in me was too keen for me tolet
her go without some parting word.

Will you come I said, ' and see me,
or may I come and see you? I should
like to know something of you, to hear
how you are.*

She looked at me in silence.

No,' she said at last, shaking her head,
your life lies there  mine here,'  pointing
with her two hands ; ' we have nothing
more to do with each other.'

The words were defiant ; but her voice
and the look in her eyes were not. The
next moment she had disappeared with
her friend in the crowd. I have never
seen her since.

It was long before I re-visited my river
garden. A desecrating breath had passed
over its green berceaux, a life-tragedy had

troubled the peace of its limpid waters.
It was already autumn when I saw it
again ; the paths were damp, the yellow
vine-leaves were beginning to thin. The
silent melancholy discouraged me  I went
there no more.

AN ISLAND GRAVE.

Sleep, sleep, happy child !
All creation slept and smiled.
Sleep, sleep, happy sleep,
While o'er thee doth mother weep.'
Songs of Innocence.

Do you see that island yonder ?' said our
host. ' It holds a rather curious cave,
that I am about to take you to visit ; a
cave with a history, too, for it served as a
hiding-place in the last century, like so
many of our odd nooks and corners in this
part of the country.'

The country was the north-east coast of
Scotland; and as he spoke, our boat parted
us from the land. It was an abrupt and

rocky shore we left behind us, divided at
the point at which we had started by a
narrow glen running up into the hills. At
the foot of the glen stood our host's ancestral
home, an old stone tower, bare and
lonely without, full of warmth and modern
comfort within ; about it lay a little garden,
furnished with such few flowers and
hardy shrubs as the bleak winds would
permit to grow. But cold and bleakness
alike seemed far withdrawn to some nether
world on this summer afternoon. Before
us and around spread a smooth expanse of
sea, pulsing blue and waveless in the tranquil
light, with white reflections from the
high white clouds floating overhead. Faraway,
between us and the horizon, lay a
dark group of rocks, towards one of which,
larger than the rest and somewhat detached
from them apparently, we were
steering. It lay altogether apart, we
presently found, as the boat propelled by
strong rowers, shot swiftly onwards, and

the group changing its character, the rocks
discover themselves as islets, not huddled
together as they showed at a distance, but
spread over a very considerable space of
water. That larger island for which we
were bound was of some size and very
rugged and abrupt in appearance, rising
almost to a point in the centre, and with
rocky sides now falling sheer and bare to
the water, now sloping more gently and
covered with thin grass and hardy brushwood.
Some sea-birds rose and clamoured
at the sound of our oars and voices, lifting
their heavy wings against the blue ; otherwise
all was still in the lonely place. It
lay so lonely, rising there in the midst of
the summer sea, it had an aspect so remote,
that some tale of enchantment might have
held it as its centre ; a remoteness enhanced
by those other lonely rocks which,
washed by the same waves, visited by the
same sunshine and air, lay eternally fixed,
indifferent and apart. We rowed twice

round the island ; the still sea hardly
broke into a ripple round its rocky base,
cleft, so far as we could discover, by
neither creek nor cranny large enough
to admit an oar. We rowed round twice ;
where, we inquired then, was the entrance
to the cave of which we had been told.

Our host smiled as he answered. 'You
might row round many times without discovering
it,' he said. Tor more than a
hundred years it was a secret kept by one
family on this coast ; the smugglers even
never discovered it, and but few people, I
believe, are acquainted with it now. One
of my ancestors who fought at Culloden
found a refuge here afterwards ; and though
there is no cause for secresy in these days,
we have done what we could to keep the
place free from idle sight-seers and .
Here we are, however.'

The boat stopped as he spoke at a point
of rock where some happy combination of

soil and aspect had favoured the growth of
a raass of brushwood hanging close to the
water s edge, so that in high and stormy
tides the lower branches must have been
washed by the waves. Raising his oar,
one of the boatmen pushed these aside,
disclosing a fissure so narrow that only
a few feet within the entrance the boat
stuck fast ; whilst a projecting angle
seemed to close the mouth of the cave,
producing from without the illusion of
solid rock. Immediately within, however,
the roof rose, a sandy floor sloped
steeply upwards, and jumping from the
boat, we found ourselves after a moment's
groping, in one of those singular caverns
that delight the visitor to rocky seas and
shores. A dim twilight filled the place,
such light as there was filtering apparently
through some aperture above, for the
air was sufficiently fresh ; and one of the
men lighting a lantern he had brought

Tvitli him, a central cave with a lofty roof
was revealed, flora which smaller caves
branching off on either hand were lost in
darkness. The island was so small that
the whole can have been of no great extent
; but as the light flashed here and
there, showing now an opening, now an
unknown depth of shadow, it looked as if
it might be the entrance to Hades itself,
a passage hall to the very centre of the
earth. It seemed devoid of life ; the sloping
floor was strewn for a little distance
from the entrance with drift and seaweed,
but beyond it lay empty, above the reach,
as one might judge, of the stormiest waves,
trodden only by our recent footsteps. All
the more conspicuous then in its presence,
was the one object which told that human
life had once been present there. It was a
headstone somewhat sunk in the sand, that
at the upper end of the cave marked a
small mound protected, as one sometimes

sees a grave protected in country churchyards,
by osier twigs bent across. The
twigs were comparatively fresh ; but the
headstone was old, and discoloured even
in that remote corner by sea air and spray.
Our host held the lantern so that its light
fell on the rudely-cut inscription, almost
illegible now; an inscription of a few words
only, and a date more than a century back.
We stood for a moment in silence ; a multiplied
murmur from the faint washing of
the waves outside was all the sound that
reached us, the walls of the cave rose high
into the darkness above. It was a great
and solemn vault for one small resting-place
of the dead.

I have a sentiment about that little
grave,' said our host, as we seated ourselves
again in the boat, and made for the
shore. * It is a very small item in this
tumultuous world, but we found its history
in an old paper written by that same

ancestor of ours, Robert Stuart, who took refuge
here after Culloden. He was a soldier
of reputation, a scholar and a poet  I can't
say much, though, for his poetry; we have a
volume of it at home. He lived in the middle
of the last century, you know, and though
I should judge him to have been a man full of
sensibility and imagination, he allowed himself
to be too rigidly governed in his verse
by the academic spirit of his age. This
fragment of prose that we possess seems
to me worth all his poems put together. I
Avill read it to you this evening, if you like ;
it contains some account of his adventures
hereabouts after Culloden, and may interest
you now that you know the locality. My
old tower there belonged to him ; it came
to me through a younger branch of the
family, for he himself finally settled and
died in France.*

That same evening our host read to us
the paper of which he spoke. The beginning

had been torn away and lost, we
found, and a few pages farther on. The
remainder was intact.

When the morning broke, I was

already well on my way towards home.
My wound had been so carefully tended
by those friendly people as to cause me
little further inconvenience; and the clothes
lent me by the farmer proved a sufficient
disguise. I went on my way briskly in
the keen morning air ; and my inward
dejection of spirit being visible to no man,
none suspected that they saw in me a
fugitive from that most melancholy and
disastrous field. Alas ! when I thought of
my scattered comrades, of those who were
prisoners, of those more fortunate who
were dead, of our fugitive Prince and
broken cause, a weight seemed to bow
down my head ; and had it not been for
that dear soul who, with her baby at her
VOL. I. R

breast, was counting the hours with prayers
for my return, it would have seemed little
to me, I vow, to join hands with many a
nobler man than myself who lay in fetters
now. But for her dear sake, I could still
return thanks to Heaven for life and freedom,
and find courage to press on my way
towards home. On the evening of the

second day I arrived

Our abode at that time was a square
stone house or tower on the coast, built
by my grandfather and looking east over
the sea, with a strip of garden, where only
herbs and hardy shrubs would grow. I
had sent my wife there at the beginning
of the troubles, since through its remote
situation and the loyal temper of the
country round  loyal to the king and to
our family alike  it was a safer residence
for her than our estate near Stirling. The
bay in which it stood was landlocked by
cliffs on either side, and thus we were

less exposed to the elements than might
otherwise have been the case. Nevertheless,
it was but a stormy and wind-beaten
spot, and often after my return,
as Mary sat with the infant on her knee
over the parlour fire, she would drop her
work and raise her head to listen to the
moan of the blast round the angles of
the house. For she could never get over
her terror of pursuit, and heard a signal-gun
or the tramp of soldiers in every
storm-gust and dash of rain. For myself,
I had few fears, and beyond keeping
strictly within the walls of the tower, used
few precautions. The country-people, as I
have saidjWere well-affected, though,through
poverty and other causes, they had taken no
part in the rising ; nor were King George's
soldiers (or so I thought) likely to visit so
remote a spot, save through tidings reaching
them of fugitives in hiding there.
Therefore, I say, I had few fears, and lived

ron

with such occupation as I could find in
my books, waiting always for news from
France that might determine my going
thither, since that was the scheme on
which my mind was set. But as yet no
news was come ; nor could I learn the fate
of my Prince ; and this suspense I found
harder to bear than any alarm that might
visit me as to my own safety.

My wife however, fearing always, and
finding me, I suppose, hard to arouse at
that time in the matter (my mind being
occupied with other things) could not rest
until she had consulted with an old fisherman,
David Maclean by name, who had a
cottage and nets and boats down in the
bay, and lived there with his son, a lad of
fifteen or thereabouts. David had lived
there always, and his father before him ;
nor could my wife and I count on each
other more faithfully than on David's loyalty
and service. He too, like myself,

began bj bidding my wife have no fear,
since not a man in all the country round
who knew (and they were but one or two
who did know) of my presence at the tower
would betray me ; and the search too, ashe
understood, was beginning to die out
everywhere. But if the worst came to the
worst, he went on to say, he knew a place
where the laird could be hidden so that no
one in the world, let alone King George's
soldiers, need hope to find him. My wife
inquiring eagerly what place, he pointed
to two or three small islands that lay mistily
on the horizon outside the bay. In one
of these, he said, there was a cave whose
entrance was so cunningly hidden by rocks
and bushes that, except by one who knew
of such a secret beforehand, its existence
could hardly be discovered. He himself
had found it out one day by accident,
whilst looking for an oar that had dropped
overboard and floated away ; and feeling

sure from its appearance that the place had
never been visited within the memory of
man, had kept the secret to himself, thinking
it might be useful one day in these
troubled times. David Maclean had spoken
to me of this before ; but Mary, hearing of
it now for the first time, began at once to
beg David to take provisions there from
time to time, as he could do it without
being seen, together with peat and firewood
and other necessaries. And that very
day she began to collect and to send one
thing and another, to be in readiness incase
of need, she said, since at the last it
might be too late to think of them. I
laughed at her at the time, though I let
her have her way ; but was afterwards
thankful to her indeed for her dear and
careful forethought for our wants.

At last, however, as the days passed on,
and I, except for my heaviness at the
absence of news from over the water, and

at the woeful tidings of my friends that
rumour brought me from time to time,
remained tranquil, and as there was no
word of pursuit in our corner of the
country ; my wife too, began to calm down
and to be happy again in her babe, who
was now more than six months old, and
beoinnino to have smiles and clinmnsr
fingers, and many little cries and ways
such as rejoice a mother's heart. Now
too, she began to venture again from the
house (for many days after my return
she had hardly left it) and with the
baby in her arms to visit the glen,
which running up among the cliffs,
sheltered the growth of some few trees,
and wild-flowers in summer, and where
already, since the spring was advancing
and the snow melted, fresh grass and
buds were beginning to appear, which she
loved to gather and put into her baby's hands
that she might see it shake them away

again and again. It happened then one
day that she had gone up there as usual,
Truth our old Jeannie at her side to help
her carry the baby. It was  fine afternoon,
windy as it always is on that coast,
but with a bright sun shining ; and the glen
being sheltered from the north, my wife
proposed to take the child to its upper end,
and be away an hour or more. But she
had been gone hardly half that time, when
I saw her from my study window run
round the corner of the house alone,
Jeannie and the child being far behind.
The next moment she burst into the room
and dropped white as a sheet into a
chair.

'Dear love,' I said, 'what ails thee?' and
started up to give her a glass of water.
But she put it away and sat up, panting
and catching her breath with her hand to
her side till she could speak.

Eobert,' she said at last, ' you must

send to David Maclean and go away at
once ; there is not a moment to lose.'

Do you mean that you have seen any
soldiers ?' I asked, not a little startled, I
own ; for the danger had almost passed
from my mind.

Not soldiers  no,' she said, catching
her breath again, ' I have seen  oh,
Eobert, I have seen Malcolm Graham.'

And when she said that, I was more
startled than before ; for if ever man bore
a deadly hatred to another, Malcolm
Graham bore such hatred to me. For he
was an ill-conditioned man, full of evil
passions, and had wanted to marry my wife
when she was not yet my wife, but the
light and joy of her father's house.

We met face to face in the glen,' she
went on quickly, ' he was coming down as
I was going up. Yes, he spoke to me ; he
asked news of you. He asked if you had
recovered from your wound : he smiled ashe

spoke, and I would not answer him a
word. Then he asked me if you were at
home now, and I answered him with a lie,
for I saw he knew and suspected something.
I told him no, you were in France ;
and he smiled again and said it was a
pleasant country, and bowed aod went on.
He did not see baby, I thank God for that,
she was hidden with Jeannie among the
trees. But oh, Eobert, I told him a lie  '

And with that my wife flung her arms
round my neck and hid her face on my
shoulder; for she was hardly more than a
child yet, and her father was a strict and
God-fearing man.

And I would tell it twenty times over
again to save you from danger,' she said ;
but oh, I wish  I wish I had held my
peace, or had had trust in God so as to tell
the truth. For a lie is a heavy sin, and
evil will come of it, and a judgment be
laid upon us.'

When she was grown a little calmer,
she began to urge me again to send at
once for David Maclean, and seek the
refuge I have spoken of. To see David I
had no objection ; but only a more dire
extremity, I determined, should drive me
from home ; both because I held it cowardly
to fly from danger not yet apparent, and
also that if Malcolm Graham were lurking
about the neighbourhood, I had no mind
to leave my wife alone. I knew little of
him beyond what I have said ; but I
knew him for an unscrupulous man, careless
of means to gain his private ends, and
that to annoy my wife might seem to him
as legitimate a revenge as to betray me.
But though I could not consent to leave
the house, we nevertheless sent for David ;
and telling him what had happened,
charged him to keep a strict look-out for
news, and above all, to discover if possible
the movements of Malcolm Graham. And

further we began to speak more seriously
than we had yet done of making our way
to France. Mary and I indeed had often
talked this over together, since the King's
cause being lost for the time in England,
I was anxious to share my party's fortunes
abroad, and she willing to follow me to the
world's end, be it where it might. Only,
still doubting and fearing, dear woman-soul,
to leave her father's land and cross the
stormy spring seas with a child so young as
ours, we had agreed, all seeming quiet, tolet
the matter rest till the season should be
somewhat more advanced, and the news
which I expected daily, should reach me from
abroad. Now, however, it was she who
was eager and pressing that we should set
out without delay ; and to this end David
Maclean was desired to watch for a certain
small vessel whose captain was well-known to
him, and which, plying between our Scottish
ports and Dunkirk, from time to time ran

intoourbay. In this vessel, he assured us, we
might make the voyage without too much
discomfort to Mary and the child ; also it
was now nearly due ; only the weather
threatening storm with strong winds
blowing off the shore, it was not impossible
there might be some delay.

After this interview my wife became
calmer, since, with a hundred preparations
to make for leaving home, she had her
hands and mind full, and less time to fret
from anxiety. And yet I could see she
had resumed her old habit of listening;
and twenty times in the day would start
and run to the door to look out. Nor
would she stir a foot from the house, nor
allow me to sit during the day in any buta
little room with a bolted door opening
out at the back, for escape in case of a
surprise. And at night, as she told me
afterwards though she would not at the
time, she dreamed again and again of

prison gates and a scaffold and thousands
of upturned faces, and she and her baby
striving and striving to see the face of a
prisoner who was being led out, but always
pressed back by the crowd.

In this way three days may have passed
after my wife's first alarm, and David
had seen nothing of the ship, detained, no
doubt, by contrary winds ; nor of Malcolm
Graham, who seemed to have vanished
from the country noiselessly as he had
come. And my wife rejoicing at this, I
would not tell her that to me it was the
worst sign of all, and that now for the
first time I saw real cause for fear For
life after all is sweet, and the sweeter when
dear to those dearest to oneself. I also
then took to listening, though I would not
let her see it, and sat in expectation, setting
ray papers in order the while, and
packing such few books as I thought
to take with me. At last on the evening

of the third, or it may have been the
fourth day, the blow we looked for fell.

I remember the night as though it had
been yesterday ; it was among those that
do not pass from a man's mind till
memory fails in death. The storm that
had been rising for three days past was
gathering towards its height, and though
our walls were thick, we could hear the
wind raging round the house with wild
moans and sighs as the gusts rose and
fell, and shaking our parlour casement as
we sat before the fire. The baby had
been ailing with some trifling ailment,
and Mary had been upstairs with it chief
part of the evening ; but now it had fallen
asleep and Jeannie had taken her place,
while she came down to me. She had
some warm baby garment in hand which
she was fashioning for the voyage ; for
she thought of nothing now but the
voyage, and all fear of the sea had left

her, so that she would have crossed it on
the stormiest as on the calmest day. It
was ten o'clock, and she had begun to
fold up her work and prepare for bed.
 Perhaps tomorrow,' she said, ' the ship
will be here.' And at that moment there
came a knock at the door. It was David
Maclean's knock, and before I could move
my wife had flown to open it. The next
moment David himself stood within the
doorway, lantern in hand, dripping with
rain and salt water.

*Is it the ship, David?' my wife cried,
breathless.

'Na, na, nae word o' the ship, worse
luck to it, but your honour maun come at
once,' he replied ; * there's no a moment to
lose. The red soldiers are up at the village.'

To my dying day I shall remember my
wife's pale face and affrighted eyes. * Is
Malcolm Graham with them ?' I asked.

Na, na, there's nae word o' Malcolm

Graham, but your honour 11 please to come
at once ; the coble's a' ready, and the gear ;
we maun e'en win through the storm and
the dark as we can.'

How it was I know not, but at that
moment I felt neither haste nor fear, nor
anything but reluctance to quit that dear
hearth and all that belonged to it, to leave
my wife alone, and the infant sleeping in
its cradle upstairs. But with Mary it was
far otherwise. In a moment, whilst I
hardly knew what she did, she had fastened
my cloak and wrapped my plaid round my
shoulders ; and throwing her own plaid over
her head, had thrust me, she clinging the
while to my arm, out at the door, along
the little garden path, through the wicket
and down the waste of sandy grass that
lay between it and the beach. My pistols
and sword I had already laid hands on in
the first moment of alarm ; David with
the lantern, followed close at our heels ;

VOL. I. s

and thus suddenly I found our peaceful
fire-lit home left behind me, and the wild
night outside closing in darkness round
us.

The night was wild indeed, moonless
and starless, with beating rain. The wind
howled and whistled in our ears, but
through its tumult we could hear the roar
of the surf that surged for miles along
the rocky shore ; and when we reached
the beach, we could see the dim white line
that lost itself in the night on either hand.
A lantern flashed for an instant where the
little boat was drawn up on the shingle,
and then was darkened, leaving a blackness
more pitch than before. My wife and I
stood clasped breast to breast ; through
the darkness I could see her face lifted
close to mine ; our cheeks were wet with
mingled tears and rain. We had spoken
no word since we left the house ; but now,

Dear heart,' she said, ' I cannot  cannot
leave thee.' And so, clinging closely together,
we moved step by step, as by one
impulse, down towards the breaking line
of surf. All at once she raised her head,
which had sunk on my breast. * Oh, hark,*
she said, ' I hear baby crying.' Dear soul,
it was but her fancy, for through that
wild uproar of wind and surf and rain no
sound could reach us from the distant
house. But now, as though torn apart by
that great anguish of divided longing, her
arms fell from my shoulders to her side.
A moment looser her hand cluno to mine;
but as David, his preparations ended,
shifted his dark lantern once more, and
sent a narrow line of light across the
streaming raindrops and up the wet stones,
with a sob she tore herself away, and fled
up the beach. I think she turned once
more; but tears dimmed my own eyes, and

s2

the thick beating of my heart dulled all
my senses. In another moment she was
lost in the darkness.

I sat down in the bottom of the boat,
and we pushed out through the surf on to
the tossing invisible sea. And of whither
we were going or of how, I seemed to have
no clear consciousness; for in that impenetrable
blackness, that blotting out of
heaven and earth in the elemental rush
and roar which obliterated all kindly
human sounds, it might, so it seemed tome,
have been the immeasurable sea of
Eternity, the sea without change or limit,
across which we were being driven ; hardly
could I believe that the sun would ever
rise again, or children's voices gladden the
ear. If there were danger (and I have
sometimes wondered since how so small a
boat could live in such a sea, and blessed
again those brave hearts that risked their
lives for mine), I had no knowledge of it

the ; since earthly danger seemed far
withdrawn beyond that gulph of darkness
which closed us round. And so for two hours,
or it may have been for three, since time
held no count and left no mark, we made
our unseen way. I could not think, I
may have tried to pray ; but no prayer
would come, for horror of the night and
unchained blast of the storm ; no, not till
a vision of my wife, watching and praying
beside her baby in our sleeping-room at
home, unloosed my soul and turned it towards
the Father of all spirits. And just
then a louder sound was added to wind
and wave, and the dim white line of the
surf showed itself again, encircling the
island for which we were bound.

So many sunken rocks lay about the
little place of refuge, that even in daylight,
much more in this Tartarean darkness, it
required no small skill to find the one
narrow passage into which the boat might

be thrust ; so that another hour may have
passed in wary touching at one point and
another before the wished-for channel was
found and the boat run in. And now, had
I been in such a mood, I might have recalled
many a boyish dream and vision of
romance such as visit young hearts when
life is new and all things strange, and
beautiful through their strangeness. For,
pushing aside some hanging branches,
David ran the boat so far as might be, up
the little creek to the entrance of a large
cave, as I discovered in a moment ; when,
safe now from all danger of being seen, he
opened his lantern and let the light strike
up the walls and along the vaulted roof.
And never could I describe the joy that
light gave me, the sight of his ruddy
countenance and the blooming cheeks of
the lad, after the nameless weight of
blackness through which we had passed 
so that I have since thought, rather, but

for the sake of Mary and the child, would
I have stayed ashore that night and faced
a hundred deaths, than encountered the
terrors of that brief voyage.

Now from my heart I thanked my
wife for her foresight in causing fuel and
provisions to be placed here ; for soon we
had a fire lighted and some supper prepared,
the smoke, escaping in part through
the entrance, and in part through some
aperture above, causing us little inconvenience.
And so presently (I, for one,
with a grateful heart) we lay down to
sleep ; not however, before I had held
some consultation with David Maclean as
to our future plans. He was to leave the
island, so we agreed, before daybreak ; and
going straight to the tower, was to convey
my wife and the baby to her father's
house some thirty miles distant, where she
would, as I knew, be in perfect safety. Indeed,
I had already urged her more than

once to go there, but she had always refused,
saying that her husband's house was
now her proper home. What next should
be done would be matter for future deliberation
; in the meantime David was to return,
the weather permitting (for the boat, in
fact, ran no little danger in those stormy
seas), the next night but one, and give an
account of what had passed.

When I awoke therefore in the morning,
I found myself alone. A dim twilight
filled the cave ; for though I had slept late
and it was fully day, little light could
penetrate through the overhanging bushes
that hid the narrow entrance. Still I
could judge better now than the previous
evening of the nature of the place I was
in, and found it to be lofty and vaulted,
with smaller caverns branching off on
either side of the central one, a place
curious by its size and its construction.
And whether formed by the action of the

waves, or by some convulsion of nature,
I knew not, nor have ever known.

Here then I passed the day well
enough, occupied by many thoughts, some
indeed anxious and heavy, but others not
so painful ; since the isolation, the strange
and savage place, the surging of the sea,
and my own situation which had the
excitement of peril escaped but not yet
overcome, stirred in me a singular sentiment
of romance, agreeable as it was novel ;
which, having a note-book and pencil with
me, I strove to set down in verse, but
with so little satisfaction to myself that I
afterwards tore up the paper and burnt
it.

And I have little doubt,' our host here
interrupted himself to say with a smile,
that it was the best poem my ancestor
ever wrote.'

When the night was come  and in my
place of refuge it was dark long before the

twilight had faded from sea and sky  I
ventured to light the fire which I had
feared to kindle during the day, lest the
smoke escaping should be visible from a
distance. I thought so to cheer my loneliness,
perhaps ; but if so, I presently found
reason to repent ; for as the wood and turf
caught and blazed and flamed up, throwing
uncouth lights and shadows on the strange
walls and roof of my abode, such thoughts
lighted up within me as I had never-known
before, as I have never known since ; a
darkness of the spirit moreover falling on
me, worse even than that blackness of the
night before. And such nights as those
two I trust in Heaven never to pass again,
not even when I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death, which they surely
most resembled. For all at once I felt as
though imprisoned there alone in the
centre of the earth, where no rav from
heaven could ever reach me more ; and

that in the awful shadows of the cavern
which moved with the leaping flames, were
lurking all the evil passions my life
had ever known ; so that a great terror,
like no terror of mortal thing, laid hold on
me, and my hair seemed to rise on my
head, and the minutes were like eternities
that have neither beginning nor end, and all
my past seemed to fall away from me and be
as nothing. So stricken was I indeed, and
paralysed by that unknown horror, that I
stood, knowing neither whither to turn nor
what to do ; till, rousing myself desperately,
I groped my way to the very mouth
of the cave and tore asunder the bushes to
look out on the night, thinking that perhaps
some kindly star shining in heaven,
some friendly light at sea, might lift that
awful dread from heart and brain. But
the night was black, nay, blacker if possible
than the previous one had been ; no
light was in earth or heaven, and rain and

spray dashed coldly in my face. But even
rain and spray were welcome now, as signs
from the world from which I was cut off;
and while I stood and gazed something
blacker seemed to grow out of the blackness,
a different strain from the surge of
the sea struck upon my ear ; a boat's keel
grated at the sandy entrance of the cave,
and the next moment David Maclean,
springing out, set my wife with our infant
in her arms at my side.

Good God ! how changed looked that
haunted spot as I drew her forward into
the cave; with what friendly warmth the
fire blazed to receive her, as chilled and
drenched she drew shivering towards it.
The baby lay warm and dry within her
plaid ; but first of all she thought of
it, and then, dear heart, of me ; or
rather, of us both together, for her eyes
sought mine at every turn, and presently
she rested in my arms. Nor had we been

parted for an eternity, indeed, instead of
for some four-and-twenty hours, could
heart have met heart, I think, Tvith a
greater passion of tenderness, with a profounder
gratitude for reunion after dangers
overcome.

She could not stay behind, she told me
presently, as we all sat at supper together,
the baby sleeping on her knee.
(She had shown it to me again and again
since she came in, as though some great
time had in truth elapsed since I saw
it last.) She could not stay behind,
and had thought to go out of her
mind when David proposed to take her
to her father's house. She had made up
a bundle, therefore, of such things as
she most needed ; and going with the
child down to David's house, had remained
there in hiding all day. Meanwhile the
soldiers had searched the neighbourhood
and made sad havoc up at our house, she

feared ; seizing every paper they could
find, hacking the furniture through sheer
wantonness, and tearing up the books ;
and this last grieved me more than the
rest, since I had left no papers thereof
value, and the furniture was worth
but little. And what mattered a ruined
home when wife and child were with me
here ?

And so, Mary continued, when the evening
was come, she wrapped up the baby
warmly ; and the sea being somewhat
abated and the child recovered from its ailment,
so that she thought it could take no
harm  and here she looked earnestly in its
little face ; but it was sleeping peacefully,
and she went on  David brought the
boat ; and she had minded neither wind nor
waves for the thought that she was on her
way to me. And when I asked her
whether the darkness had given her no

alarms, she answered, no ; for always in
her mind was the verse of the Psalm :
The darkness is no darkness unto
Thee ;' and after God, she trusted in
David Maclean. Dear heart, 1 think she
had a braver soul than mine, and one
that would never quail before imaginary
fears.

Of the ship there was no sign ; the
storm must have delayed it ; and before
David left us that night it was agreed that
for fear of exciting suspicion he should
come no more to the island for a few
days (since we had provisions in plenty),
unless the ship should appear, or we had
some other special need. But on the
fourth night, the darkness favouring, he
was to come again ; for we should be
waiting for news, and suspense is hardest
of all to bear.

The next day and the beginning of the

next passed peacefully. My wife even in
the hurry of departure, had thought of
putting into her bundle one or two of my
favourite volumes, with which I could
entertain my leisure so long as the twilight
of the cave allowed me to see the
print. Of other light we had none, except
the fire at night ; for something, and often
something essential, being always forgotten
at the last moment, we had neglected to
bring oil for the little lamp David Maclean
had placed here among other things ;
a want we only discovered after he had
left, and it was too late to remedy it. My
wife, however, made light of the discomfort,
since we were together and the baby
lay always warm and well-cradled in her
arms ; and indeed, we had been parted so
much since our marriage, that we seemed
in those days never to have finished what we
had to say to each other, but talked half
the day and night through, planning our

life in France, where it was my intention
to take service, if possible ; for though I
loved books, it was in a soldier's life that
my heart's desire lay.

In this way the time passed, and all might
have gone well, but towards the middle of
the second day the child began to ail. It
began to ail ; but of what its ailment might
be, or of its cause, we had no knowledge
whatever ; for until then it had always been
bright and strong and healthy, and more
forward, its mother always told me, than infants
are apt to be at that tender age. At
first my wife hiding away her fear from herself,
would not own that anything was
wrong; it was sleepy, she said, or hungry, or
fretting for want of fresh air and sunshine.
But in a few hours, for children's ailments
progress fast, she could no longer shut her
eyes to the truth ; for the infant, instead of
slumbering peacefully in the ruddy warmth
of the fire (for it was now night), or sitting

VOL. I. T

up in its mother's lap, springing and fighting
with its little fists and stretching out its
feet to the blaze ; instead of all this, I say,
it lay heavy and waxen-pale, not even
wailing and fretting now, but almost
motionless with closed eyes and half-open
mouth ; and presently, as the night drew
towards its close, and the dawn, as we
could judge, was spreading over the sea
outside, it began to refuse all nourishment.
Then I saw a look of anguish and wild
terror, such as I have never beheld on another
human countenance, come into my
wife's eyes. But she said not a word, only
wrapped the child more closely in her arms,
now pacing the cave with it, now crouching
again before the fire, chafing its little
hands and feet. And still what ailed it,
we could not tell, since this was our first
child, and my wife little more than a child
herself.

So the night passed and the day dawned,
but with it no hope of human aid ; for we
had no boat with which to reach the land
and fetch a doctor, or a woman skilled in
infant maladies ; nor in this wild weather
which still continued, though the storm
was fast abating, was there hope of any
fishing-boat leaving the shore and coming
within hail. I cursed my want of forethought
now in bidding David Maclean
leave us for three days alone in this remote
and savage spot ; but cursing or repentance
alike were of little avail. For presently, as
the day wore on, the baby fell into strong
convulsions from which it rallied only to
fall into them again ; and I pray God I may
never again know aught like the anguish
of those helpless hours when I could only
come and go, watching the sufferings of
those dearest to me on earth. Nor had I
known before how large a space of hope

t2

my little daughter filled in my future life,
how close the name of father lay upon my
heart.

It might have been towards three or
four in the afternoon, for the grey twilight
that was all we knew of day was beginning
to fade ; though not to leave us in utter
darkness, since all that day we had never
thought of putting out the fire, whose light
and warmth were needful for the child.
It might have been then between three
and four, and my wife had laid the infant
down for an instant on its little bed whilst
she attended to some necessary trifle, when
I heard a noise behind me, and looking
round, saw a man coming towards us
through the firelight and dusk. At first
I thought it was David, and with a sudden
hope went quickly down the sloping floor
of the cave to meet him. But as he came
nearer, I saw that it was Malcolm Graham.
He had a smile on his face as he approached

us. Lurking, hidden for greater certainty
no doubt, in the neighbourhood,
with eye and ear alert like the hunter's
for every trace of the hunted prey, he may
have tracked us that day by the smoke
that must have risen from our fire.
However that may have been  and I never
learned  he was there before our eyes ; our
poor refuge was discovered, our last hope
betrayed. For advancing with that same
evil smile, he looked us well in the face ;
then turned to leave the cave with such
treacherous purpose in his heart as it were
no riddle to guess. As he turned (it had
all passed in a moment, and stunned by its
suddenness, I had not even moved since I
discovered it was he) Mary looked up and
saw him also.

I suppose there may in truth be inspirations,
that like God's angels, descend
straight from heaven. My wife can have
had no time to think or reason; nay, I

know not how she can have had time to
realize what was taking place ; nor could
she in talking of it afterwards, ever clearly
recal what she had done, still less what
impulse moved her. But in an instant she
had sprung to her feet ; and rushing past
Malcolm Graham to the entrance of the
cave where the little boat in which he had
come was grounded in the sand, with a
mighty effort she pushed it out to sea ; so
that, wind and tide both setting from our
island, it floated right away. Then coming
back, without casting so much as one look
on Malcolm Graham, imprisoned now along
with us, she knelt down again by the infant's
side to take it in her arms. And I
believe at that time neither of us gave one
thought more to the man who had come
there with such treacherous intent ; for
just then the baby's face changed j it put
up its little arms, gasping with wide open
eyes ; and even as its mother took it up.

with one last struggle its sweet life passed
away.

At first she would not lay it down, but
clasping it wildly to her breast, began to
pace with it to and fro, as she had done on
many a wakeful night at home ; pausing now
and again to gaze for a moment in its face,
only to press it then more closely to her
bosom-with quick-hurrying steps, as
though to fly from the anguish of her
grief; and in truth I do not know how
mortal spirit is framed to bear such agony
as was laid on hers then. But presently,
going up to her, I drew her gently towards
the little couch ; and taking the dead baby
from her arms which at first resisted, then
yielded to my touch, I laid it down again
and closed its eyes, so that it seemed
to lie sleeping and at rest. Then the
mother, stooping over it, did all else that
needed to be done, composing its little
limbs and smoothing some downy locks

under its cap (shedding no tear the while
for the great spasm of grief that held her
heart) till the infant lay there still and
straight with the print not of life, but of
immortality on its face. When all was ended,
she knelt down, and spreading out her
arms, encircled the child and hid her face
in the pillow. So we stayed motionless and
silent, for how long a time I took no note.
At last I roused myself to make up the
fire, which was dying out, and coming
back, raised up my wife and led her in
front of the blaze. For her hands were
icy cold, and she shook now and shivered
and trembled as before some strong blast ;
turning her eyes too on me from time to
time, whilst I chafed her hands, as who
should say, * Help me.' And I, alas, alas !
had no help to give ; only my great love
that seemed to her then, as I too well
knew, a thing very far off ; even as the
love of our Father in Heaven seems too

often a strange and far-off thing to the
broken hearts of His children. Only at
last, seeing that she made no resistance
to what I did, I fetched some food and
wine and made her take them, for she had
touched nothing that day.

All this time we had seen and heard
nothing of Malcolm Graham. Mary, I
believe, had clean forgotten him ; indeed,
she afterwards told me as much. But for
myself, though I gave him no thought, I
had always the consciousness of his presence
near us ; and it added to the bitter
anger risen in my heart against the man
who was the cause of our misery, that in
f50 sacred and awful an hour as this my
wife and I should not be alone.

Looking round the cave now, I saw that
he had thrown himself upon a heap of
sand in a dark and remote corner ; and
since he was in a sense our prisoner and
dependent on us, I took some food to

place Dear him. I dreaded to see his face,
for I felt that if it still had on it the smile
it wore when he entered the cave, the
devil would urge and God alone could
prevent some deed that would weigh on
my soul for ever. But his face was pressed
upon his arms against the rocky wall ; and
when at my approach he turned it slowly
round, it wore a look so piteous and haggard
that a strange compassion for the
man who had wronged us began to fill
my heart. And I have often thought
since that if, as I have reason to believe,
a true repentance had begun to work
within him, no sharper penance could
have been devised than those hours he
spent as spectator of the sad and woeful
ruin he had wrought. To speak to him
then, however, was beyond my power ; and
he, having looked at me in silence for a
moment, turned his face again to the
wall ; and so I left him.

All my care now was to persuade my
wife to go to rest; since in an hour or
two David Maclean might be looked for
according to our agreement, and it was
my wish that we should dig the grave
there in the spot where we were. For as
my wife and I sat hand clasped in hand
before the fire, I had turned the matter
over in my mind. And first I thought
that dear treasure should be entrusted to
David to be buried in our little churchyard
far among the hills. But then I thought
that we ourselves might never see our
land more, and its grave would remain
strange to us, and in its last resting-place
we should have no part; so that
sooner would the mother lay it here in
this spot consecrated by her grief and by
that sweet parting breath. Also, in other
days, if so we willed, we might return to
take it away and plant that immortal seed
(since such is our faith) in other ground

where it and we might rest together. But of
all this I said no word to my wife ; knowing,
as I did by the pang that cut my own heart
at the thought of that little form being
hidden for ever from our eyes, what keener
wound, what more exquisite anguish would
rend her tender soul. Only presently, by
such persuasions as I could use, I tried
to induce her to go to rest. At first
she would not, and I knew that in her
heart was the thought of the icy blank
where till now warm love had lain at her
breast; but at last  for she was always
docile, sweet soul, where her own will was
concerned  ' If I may have baby, Robert,'
she said ; and with that her mouth quivered
a little ; but her eyes were always
tearless and wide open, as though they
would never close again. So she went
away into an inner cave that we had made
our sleeping-place, and lifting the little
couch with its burthen, I placed it beside

her; and presently she lay still, with
her arm stretched out over the baby.
Whether she slept, I do not know; but
she lay there motionless as her little one
at her side.

This done, I went down to the mouth
of the cave, to await David's arrival, and
look out on the sea and sky. There were
stars for the first time these many nights
past, and a dim expanse of tossing waves
visible, sinking to calm. I could see lights
here and there on the water where the
fishing-boats were putting out again to
sea, and one light that burned steadily
and never moved, as of a ship at anchor.
With all my heavy grief and trouble,
something, I own, of hope and life began
stirring and reviving in my heart at these
friendly signs in sky and earth. For to
fight one's way, sword in hand, with blows
given and blows received and Heaven
above all, through the troubles of life, is

a portion that every man worthy of the
name claims as the best that life can give.
But to stand helpless, bound, cut off from
the open d.yand common fellowship of man,
to witness and to share an anguish that one
cannot touch, is to be in a strait so narrow,
an abyss so black, that I pray God I and
mine may be in our graves rather than
pass through the like again.

I was still gazing when I heard the
plash of oars close at hand, and looking,
saw the boat with David and his son. He
sprang out joyfully, with good tidings
written on his face. The ship was come,
he said, and at daybreak tomorrow would
stand out again to sea. We were to join
it, and be on board by seven o'clock. In a
few words I told him all that had happened,
and his countenance changed and
fell; for he loved us all, and a hundred
times had held our baby on his knee.

We went back into the cave, for there

was no time to lose ; by daybreak or soon
after we must be on our way. I looked
in on my wife ; but all was still and dark
where she was resting with that sweet
unearthly presence at her side. As for
Malcolm Graham, he lay face downwards
now on the ground away in his dark
corner, his head buried in his arms. He
may have been sleeping ; I do not know ;
we none of us approached him to see.

We chose a spot opposite the mouth
of the cave, where the vault rose high
overhead, where, as wee fondly fancied,
through that eastern entrance, a red ray
from the rising sun might visit it now
and then. We chose it far back from
the highest point of the tide, though the
ground sloped so steeply upwards, that there
was little fear that in the roughest weather
the water would penetrate above or below.
The sand was soft and readily moved, and
that was well, for we had no proper implements

to dig with; and although we
worked steadily and hard, yet the
greater part of the night was gone before
we had made a bed so deep that I felt sure
our infant might sleep there in unmoved
peace. But it was done at last.

And when it was done, the worst moment
of all lay before me ; I must rouse
my wife to tell her that I was come to
take away her baby. Nor do I know indeed
how I could have accomplished such
a task, but that she, lying there waking
and watchful I suppose, though motionless,
must have known what was going
forward. For when I went in with the
lantern in my hand, she rose up at once
(she was already dressed, having lain down
in her clothes) trembling from head to foot
again as on the night before. She knelt
down by the baby, and drawing off the
plaid that covered it, looked down on its
placid face, with her hand held tightly on

her heart ; then smoothing the pillow under
its head, and the folds of its little nightgown
about its feet, she wrapped the long
plaid again round and about it ; and so
(her lips clinging at the last to its baby lips,
as though never to be severed) she lifted
it in her arms, its little head still laid on
the pillow, and herself carried it into the
outer cave where the grave was dug. She
it was who gave it into David Maclean's
arms as he stood ready to receive it, the
tears running down his face ; he laid it
down very gently, and I, standing therewith
my arm round my wife, repeated the
Lord's Prayer ; for I could think of no
other words with which to pray. David
laid another plaid at the bottom of the
grave, hiding the little form wholly from
our view ; and then I led my wife away,
for her weight lay heavy on my arm, and I
thought she would have swooned.

But she did not swoon ; she only lay on
VOL. I. u

my breast like a stone, whilst that sad work
went on in the outer cave. Nor was it
possible to leave her long even in that
woeful indulgence of grief, for time was
passing and we must needs be gone. I
wished to do no more than wrap her cloak
about her, and lead her to the boat. But
when she saw what I would be at, she
broke away from me, and first standing as
one bewildered, began to look round her for
one thing and another. I saw then it was
for her baby's things she was seeking,
and began to help her collect them ;
when all at once, at the sight of some
little garment, some empty woollen shoe,
she, who till now had not shed a tear,
broke into an agony of weeping, with such
sobs, such tears, such heart-rending, heartbroken
sorrow, that I wonder our heartstrings
did not in truth crack, and we,
with that sorry story of our lives, pass into
the eternal silence.

Yet when that convulsion was ended,
she rose, shaken indeed, bub more collected
than she had yet been, and began quickly
to put together every little thing that
had belonged to the child, for there was
now no time to lose. Whilst she was so
occupied, I went to consult with David as
to what should be done with Malcolm
Graham ; since to let him loose again upon
our track till all danger was past, seemed a
thing not to be thought of. David was
for leaving him there in the cave with food
till we should be safely across the water.
But remembering the horror of loneliness
that had closed in upon me that first night,
I was averse from leaving any fellow-mortal
to endure, perhaps, a similar torture ; nor,
to say the truth, could I bear the thought
of leaving our baby in such company as
his, that innocent grave to the guardianship
of such a watcher. Of these reasons,
however, I said nothing, urging only other

u2

objections ; suggesting rather he should betaken
in the ship with us to France, whence
he could make his own way back. To
which David demurring, as doubtful what
the captain might say to another passenger,
we were still debating the point when
Malcolm Graham himself stood before us.
In all those hours I do not know that he
had moved ; in our bitter grief be had had
no part ; and what the hours had brought
him, I cannot say, but I never looked upon
the face of man so changed as his. Butin
this life also, men go down into hell,
and meet their evil deeds face to face.

Do what you will with me,* he said,
but I swear before God I have no thought
of ill towards you any more.' And with
that he went down on his knees and lifted
up his hands. ' You do not trust me,' he
said, after a pause. * So be it; take me
where you will.'

I could not trust the man at once, and

no doubt my face showed it. But at that
moment mj wife spoke. She had come to
my side, her cloak closely wrapped round
her, the hood drawn forward over her face.
She was ready to depart.

I trust you, Malcolm,' she said. ' Come
with us now, and afterwards David Maclean
shall row you back to the shore.'

After that no one said a word ; and so,
sorrowfully and silently, we got one by one
into the boat, and David and his son took
the oars. The storm was gone, the sun was
newly risen over a world new-made, and was
shining on a blue and rippling sea ; behind
us the line of coast lay receding and melting
in the distance. Once my wife looked
back to where our tower stood at the foot
of the glen ; then drawing her cloak more
closely round her, she hid her face on my
shoulder and grieved with that grief with
which no man intermeddle.

In about two hours we reached the ship.

A ladder was let down over the side, and
my wife and I prepared to go. Then Malcolm
Graham stood up again before us.

Forgive me he said. But again I
could not answer. For the evil he had
worked, and the anguish he had brought
on my wife, were heavy upon me. Only
she, dear soul, because she had suffered
most, found forgiveness in her heart.

You are forgiven, Malcolm,' she said,
try to be a better man.'

So be it,' I said then, and left him
standing there. We have never seen his
face again, and know little of what became
of him afterwards; but I doubt greatly
whether he came to much good, for he
was a man of violent passions and irregular
life. Of his repentance towards us, however,
I do not doubt, nor have ever had
any reason to doubt.

We bade farewell to David on board
the ship, and to me it was a sore wrench

to part with him ; not only for the service
he had done us, which could never be repaid,
but that he stood to me at that moment
for country, home, kinsmen, and all.
For my wife, I think she had but one sad
thought that pressed closer and closer on
her heart and shut out all heaven and
earth by degrees. And so we sailed, and
in about three days made the coast of
France. After that my wife had a long
illness, during which, in the delirium of
fever, she would always cling to the little
bundle of her baby's things, pressing it to
her heart and rocking it backwards and
forwards in a way most pitiful to behold
too pitiful to write of further here.

Many years have passed since then,
I found service in France, and we have
never seen our own land again. It is
changing greatly, I hear, and the hopes
crushed on that fatal day at Culloden,

have never fully revived. For ourselves
we have prospered; sons and daughters,
both fair and strong, are growing up
about us ; but the dear presence that first
informed us with what love the Father of
all informs a parent's heart, lives unchanged
from its sweetness in our memory. We
have never disturbed its innocent rest.
David Maclean at our desire set up a stone
carved and inscribed, to mark the spot ;
and as time has gone on the thought has
grown dear to us of that lonely grave,
sublime in its solitude, visited by red
glimpses of the dawn, consecrated by the
solemn chant of wind and wave that
ceases neither by day nor night about its
seaport walls.

CHAPTER I.

 The most tragic young man I ever knew,'

said Madame Sophie R , ' was also the

most comic. His was a very little history
a history really so little that I almost
hesitate to offer it in these pathological and
psychological days when crime and disease
engage all our attention. My good young-baron
would not have committed a crime
for the world ! Still, in his trifling way, he
entertained and interested me at the time

b2

I knew him. Perhaps, who knows? he
might also interest you.

I made his acquaintance some years ago,
in one or two October weeks that I spent
at the little Alpine village of Sonnenplatz.
I was on my way to Italy when I wrote
to propose a passing visit to some friends
who had taken up their-winter residence atone
of the Sonnenplatz hotels. Their
answer was ' come,' and towards the middle
of October I took my place in the diligence
and went. A grand road leads through
mountain passes to the high valley where
Sonnenplatz spreads itself among green
meadows. All the surrounding peaks, I
remember, were flushed with a dying sunset
as the diligence wound slowly upwards
and entered a narrow gorge ; and the
twilight was deepening into night as we
entered the more open valley above. It
was quite dark by the time I reached the
lionel There lights flashed upon me,

friendly voices greeted me. Out of the
chill darkness I passed into a homelike
atmosphere of warmth and comfort.

I was seated next day after luncheon on
the gravel terrace in front of the hotel ;
benches were set there and chairs, and round
tables fitted each with a white umbrella asa
shelter against the ardent sun. In front
the valley spread wide between receding
mountain slopes to where one distant peak
that closed the view rose against the sky
of Italy. A softer hue, one fancied, a
more dreamlike blue tinged that far off
sky than the intense heaven overhead.
On either side rose the nearer hills, dark
with pine woods, and scarred by bare watercourses,
in whose sunless crevices still
lingered the remains of the last light fall
of snow. At their feet lay the cheerful life
of the valley, tinkling herd-bells, grey-roofed
barns and chalets, yellow-green
meadows, where a clear stream glanced

like a thread of sunlight through the fading
sward. As I Avrite, I see again the
cheerful friendly scene, a scene without
romance or mountain grandeur, yet charming
through that tranquil cheer and friendly
peace. I had but lately passed through
a time of very great anxiety and trouble,
when mind and body had alike been tried
and alike demanded rest. And here the
sun shone, the pure air brought with it
fresh life and vigour, friends were at hand
I have known few brighter days than
those which shone upon that homely Alpine
valley.

I was seated then basking idly in the
sunshine, when my friends' two little girls,
Jenny and Lucy Meadows came running
up, each hugging a kitten which they
deposited, as a token of friendship, head-foremost
in my lap.

'Dear Madame R ' they cried, 'do

come and see our other kittens.'

More kittens ?' I said.

'Yes, down there in the barn, but the
old cat will not let us go near them. We
want to tame her, if we can.'

They led the way down the steep bank
on which the hotel stood, across the road
to a long; wooden barn in the low meadow
beyond. There was no light except from
the open door ; but we groped our way over
the uneven floor to where out of the dimness
two eyes shone, and small black things
could be seen moving about.

'There they are,' Lucy said, in a loud
whisper, ' and there is the cat looking at
us. You see, she won't let us touch them.'

I stood looking on, so much interested
in watching the cat and the children that
1 was unaware that another person had
entered the barn, till a voice close behind
me made me start and turn.

'And how do the kittens do to-day?' it
said.

The accent was foreign, the voice was
young and fresh, and belonged to a fresh
young person, a handsome girl of twenty or
thereabouts, tall and rather stout, with a
brilliant colour, a good-tempered smile, and
the slight hesitation in speaking a foreign
tongue that gives the charm of apparent
diffidence to an otherwise perfectly self-possessed
person. She was handsomely
and carelessly dressed in a sealskin jacket
and cap and a great deal of fur muffling
her neck under a quantity of dark hair
that fell in confusion down her back.
This picturesque person seemed well-known
to the children ; they greeted her as Miss
Vera, and pulled her forward by both
hands.

Let me see your little cats,' she said,
what, the big one will not let you touch
them ? See, I will make her come to me if
you will fetch me a saucer of milk.'

I am sroino; to the house to fetch a

shawl,' I said, ' and I will bring you some
milk. Xo, thank you, my dear ;' this to
Jenny, * the shawl is in my box ; you could
not find it.'

I found the shawl, I asked for and procured
some milk, and was walking nth
some care down the steep path leading to
the road, when a young man with his hat
pulled low over his eyes, came rushing up
with such impetuosity that he dashed the
saucer from my hand, dividing the milk
between my dress and the ground. He
stood still instantly, yiih an expression of
horror ; then suddenly dropped on his
knees before me.

Good heavens, what have I done?' he
said, taking my gown in both hands, ' the
dress is ruined, absolutely ruined.'

Xot at all,' I said,  the gown will wash ;
there is no harm done, I assure you. Pray
think no more about it,' I went on, for he
continued to kneel before me, looking so

intensely tragic that I could hardly help
laughing, ' or if you would kindly fetch
me another saucer of milk from the hotel,
I should be much obliged to you.'

He got up slowly, gazing the while at
my gown. I saw then that he was a very
ugly young man, with a round, snub-featured
face, a dark ruddy complexion, and
black hair standing on end. He was not
quite twenty-one, as he himself told me
later, when I had become great friends

with Baron Friedrich S , but he looked

older. At first sight, I imagined him to
be three or four-and-twenty.

I sat down on the bank and awaited his
return. In a minute he came back With the
milk, looking much more composed.

You will allow me to carry this for you
wherever you are going,' he said, speaking
in fairly good French, but With a strong
German accent, ' it is the only compensation
I can offer for my awkwardness.'

'I am going to the barn,' I said, pointing
to it as I spoke. ' Mrs. Meadows' children
have some kittens there.'

'Mrs. Meadows' children  ah, I know;
they are nice little girls.'

He said no more, and I too was silent,
for I saw that his mind was for the moment
wholly given to carrying the saucer
in safety. He brought so much honest
effort and so much simplicity to the
accomplishment of this feat, holding the
saucer tight with both hands, never raising
his eyes from it as he walked along,
that I had quite a friendly feeling for him
by the time we reached the barn-door.
There he handed the milk with a sigh of
relief, and lifting his hat was about to
leave me, Ashen he caught sight of Miss
Vera, who was still watching the cat and
talking to the children. His face brightened,
then it clouded again ; with a stride
he crossed the threshold and followed me

up the barn. Miss Vera did not move as
the young man approached ; nor, beyond a
swift sidelong glance, recognize his presence
in any way ; and for a moment he
stood beside her in silence.

So you are here,' he said at last
gloomily, speaking as before, in French;
 I have been looking for you everywhere.
Shall we take our walk now?'

 With pleasure,' she said, smiling,
but without looking at him. 'First,
though, I am going to tame these little
cats.'

Then it will be too late,' he said, with
increasing gloom ; ' if we are going, we had
better start at once. I have been looking
for you for the last hour. Why do you
try to evade me ?'

'Evade you?' said Miss Vera, raising
her eyebrows with .- i air of great surprise.
Then deliberately drawing on one glove
that she had taken off: 'Well  then we

will start at once,' she said ; ' I will tame
these another day.'

She put her arm through his and they
walked away together. As for me, I felt
an interest so lively in this young couple,
in the blooming and smiling maiden, in
the awkward and tragic youth, that on
presently leaving the children and the
kittens together, 1 sought out my friends
to question them on the subject.

Who,' I inquired, ' is the handsome
girl, and who the ugly young man ?'

My friend, Mrs. Meadows, who has a
charming tiu-n for gossip, and is able to
enliven the dullest sojourn by the fresh
interest she brings to bear on her fellow-creatures,
was able to satisfy my curiosity
at once. Indeed, the first-comer could
have done so, since I had alighted, I found,
upon a romance whose vivacious and varying
progress was engaging the attention
of the entire hotel. The young lady was

a Russian ; the young man a German,
Baron Friedrich S . She was spending
the autumn at Sonnenplatz with her
mother, an invalid ; he was alone. These
taro young people had spent at least a
month in each other's society, scarcely
conscious, as it seemed, of each other's
existence, when it suddenly occurred to
them one day to fall in love. In little
more than a week after this first inspiration,
the affair was settled; the mother
gave her consent and benediction ; the
young couple were engaged.

And were ever afterwards going to be
happy?' I inquired, disappointed, I confess.
The story so far Alas a trifle
commonplace, and few as were the words
I had exchanged with my gloomy young
acquaintance, I had hoped better things of
him. And in fact, I was presently reassured.
No one yet knew whether they
were to be happy or not, since the young

baron was dependent ujon a father in
Germany, and until his consent to the
engagement was gained nothing could beheld
as settled. Now, a German doctor
living in Sonnenplatz and acquainted with
Baron Friedrich and his family, had expressed
his confident opinion that the old
baron's consent would never be given to
the proposed marriage. Who knew anything
of these Russians? No one  the
doctor said  or, at least, no one knew any
good ; quite the contrary, indeed. As for
the young people, they might, if they
pleased, amuse themselves by falling in love,
jour passer le temps ; but the marriage would
assuredly never take place. So the doctor
affirmed. They themselves, Mrs. Meadows
added, had perhaps some presentiment of
the fact ; for whereas they had been at
first inseparable, walking, talking, laughing
together through the entire day, there
had latterly been a change. Some shadow,

some cloud seemed to have passed between
them.

So much had I heard of their history
when they themselves appeared, coming
slowly towards us up the road to the hotel.
I looked at them with a still livelier
interest than before ; chiefly, perhaps, at
the young Baron, whose face, ugly though
it was, yet pleased me better through its
expression of honesty and an excellent
nature, than the blooming countenance of
Miss Vera. She looked both blooming and
cheerful as she came up and paused with
a pretty smile to speak for a moment with
my friends. Baron Friedrich, on the contrary,
had a gloomy, almost a scowling
aspect, as merely raising his hat, he went
on into the house. And yet something in
the young fellow interested me ; I should
like, I felt, to see more of him ; and as fate
would have it, that very evening chance
threw him once more in my way.

I had gone out after dinner to take a
walk along the road in the frosty starlight.
It was somewhat late when I started ; a
young moon had already set, and the road
ran obscurely white above the shrouded
meadows, to be presently lost in a silent
darkness beyond. But it was a darkness
of the mountains, lighted by blazing and
flashing stars ; and the silence of a valley,
filled with the sound of falling waters, the
rush of a distant torrent descending from
snow-bound passes, the nearer dash of a
waterfall that leaped from rock to rock
down a neighbouring hill. I had gone
some little distance along the road, and
was standing listening to these lonely
voices gathering and falling on the ear in
the stillness of the night, when there was
a sound of rapid footsteps along the
road. The next moment some one ran up
against me as I stood in the shadow of the
bank.

VOL. II. c

 I beg your pardon,' said a voice that
seemed not unknown to me, and in the
same instant I recognised Baron Friedrich

S . Though rather startled, this second

encounter was so like our first that I could
not help laughing.

I beg your pardon,' he said, still more
remorsefully. ' I hope I have not hurt
you.'

'We seem destined to stumble against
each other,' I said. ' Xo, you have not
hurt me in the least, thank you. Will
you walk back with me to the hotel ?
This road is lonely, and somewhat darker
than I like.'

He willingly complied, and began to
talk instantly as we turned and walked onside
by side. Indeed, he became at once
so confidential, and so excited in his confidences,
that I began to wonder vaguely
whether he had not had more than enough
of the champagne I had seen him drinking

at dinner. He was not in the least confused,
only excited  exalted. But I believe
I may have done him an injustice. He
was at all times, I found, an excitable
youth.

He began by rhapsodizing about the
night, the stars, the mountains, the torrent,
I know not what besides, all in
his strongly accented French ; for as he
spoke but little English, and I at that
time spoke not much German, French
was our medium of communication. From
the night he proceeded to infinity, eternity,
the abysses of existence. He had
sounded them, he said ; he knew their
hollow depths, he knew the profound despair
that awaited the rash explorer of the
sounding spaces of the infinite ; he had
drunk of the empty cup of life, he had
tasted its bitter ashes ; he had looked
through the darkness of time into the
blackness of eternity, and he had felt that

c2

self-destruction was the only fitting close
to the trao;edv of existence.

Startled, though interested, by these
wild outpourings, by this revelation of a
fiery and desperate spirit hidden under
the ordinary aspect of an ordinary young
man, I attempted to calm him with such
soothing and common-place remarks as
occurred to me at the moment. Life was
not all bitter ashes, I remarked, endeavouring
to follow his somewhat confused metaphors
; there were some hearths that still
glowed-with a friendly warmth ; there
were pleasant surfaces spread over the
most hollow depths, moments of pure enjoyment
 Here he shook his head. Such
he might once have known, but he had
outlived them all. Suicide was his only
refuge ; and he spoke this time nth
such tragic effect, that I half expected to
see him pull a pistol out of his pocket and
shoot himself on the spot.

Really alarmed, and in the hope of
diverting his thoughts, I touched upon
a theme to which I should have otherwise
never dreamed of alluding on so
short an acquaintance. I had understood,
I ventured to say, that whatever the past
might have been, he had at this moment
reasons for being reconciled with life  I
paused, confronted by my own indiscretion ;
but the change on his part was instantaneous.
True, he cried enthusiastically,
he had a reason, he had every reason,
to be reconciled with life  or with death,
for love made all things equal, and life and
death were one. I had seen her, had I
not ? Was she not beautiful, was she not
divine ? His Princess, he called her. Was
she not like a Princess with her dark flowing
hair and her glorious eyes? Life 
what was life ? What was a life's devotion
for such as she ? Too slight a thing to be
named before her. Let death come rather.

Yes, to die, to taste the rapture for her sake
of breathing his last sigh at her feet, that
should be his choice.

We had reached the hotel by this timCy
and I own that I was more than content to
see the lights in the hall, the waiters
standing about, to hear the sound of a
familiar waltz coming from the music-room.
Another half-hour in the darkness
and the starlight might be too much, I
felt, for a young man so resolutely bent on
self-destruction for one reason or another ;
and it will be understood readily, that,
however he might have aroused my
sympathies, I had no desire to see a
Werther-like tragedy enacted at my very
feet. I was greatly relieved, then, when I
saw the Baron turn into the dining-room,
and heard him call for a bottle of soda-water
in a perfectly matter-of-fact voice.
Half-an-hour later, feeling still uneasy, I
came downstairs and found him walking

up and dowTi the corridor nth his princess.
Both were talking and laughing very-loud
in the most unsentimental manner
imaginable. I went to bed with an easy
mind.

CHAPTER 11.

Looking out of my window early next
morning, I saw signs below of a departure.
Two Einspanners stood before the door ;
beside them was the porter yiih a bundle
of rugs and wraps in bis hand ; a small
portmanteau and a large travelling-bag lay
on the ground. It was quite early ; the
hoar-frost had not yet melted from the
pale meadows; thin bands of mist were
drawn across the slopes, and extended far
doAvii the valley ; below lay the village, still
and shadowless in the sunless dawn. But
the peaks rose clear-cut against the pale
blue sky ; the western snow was already

touched nth gold ; and the morning was
so fresh, pure, and cloudless that I envied
the travellers their early drive.

I went downstairs. Early rising is in
fashion at Sonnenplatz, and the hotel world
was already astir. In a moment Lucy
and Jenny Meadows came running out,
wild with glee in the keen air, each hugging
a kitten.

Who is going away, Jenny T I inquired.
For Jenny had inherited her
mother's talent, and always knew everything,
I found.

Oh, only the Baron and Miss Vera and
her mother,' she cried, ' they are going to
St. Michael, but only for three days ; then
they are coming back again.'

St. Michael, a little mountain village,
a day's drive from Sonnenplatz, is famous
for its baths and mineral waters, and for
the brief summer gaiety that blooms and
dies during the few fine weeks of the year.

I had thought the season already over ;
and so no doubt it was. But mountains
and lakes remain unmoved by the departure
of water-drinkers ; a hotel or two might
probably remain open ; and the travellers, I
presumed, were going in search of a
picturesque change rather than in search
of dissipation. I again envied them their
drive on this lovely October morning.

As Jenny finished speaking, they appeared
; Miss Vera fresh, smiling, and picturesque
with her dark hair hanging over
her brown sealskin ; her mother  I had
not seen her before  a little brown and
witching woman nth her face tied up ina
white handkerchief ; lastly, the Baron
in a long fur coat, carrying Miss Vera's
cloak and handbag and umbrella. I felt
some uncertainty as to how we should
meet after his gloomy confidences of the
previous night ; but he seemed to be in

great spirits, and at once greeted me with
a most friendly smile.

'We are going for a little excursion,' lie
said, ' but we shall be back again immediately.'


You have a fine day,' I remarked,
looking up at the cloudless sky.

'Divine!' he cried, 'a morning to make
one feel new-born in Paradise. We shall
enjoy ourselves immensely  immensely.
Au revoir, madame.'

He carefully placed Miss Yea's possessions
in the first Einspanner, helped her
to seat herself by her mother, then springing
into the second carriage : ' Off ! ' he
cried, standing up and waving his hat.
The drivers cracked their whips, the horses'
bells jingled, and oiF they drove through
the frosty air towards the white eastern
glow whence the sun, still low behind the
mountains, would presently arise upon us.

That day I went for a long drive nth
my friends to search out the hidden glories
of the hills. For if the scenery of our
Sonnenplatz was somewhat tame and prosaic,
it was far otherwise when the road,
turning aside from the flat stream watered
meadows, wound upward among the mountains.
There the valley narrowed, and the
torrent foamed in its rocky bed, the peaks
rose higher and higher before us and
around, chalets, deserted now, stood ujon
high green alps, the forests failed as they
climbed the steep precipices. Once we
passed a great mountain shoulder clothed
With the dark green of the Alpine rhododendron.
It had been one sheet of rose-red,
I was told, in the early summer ; but the
flowers were all gone now. The flowers
were gone everywhere ; only a few gentians
were left, a few autumn crocuses fading in
the fading grass. For though the sun shone
hot overhead in a summer sky, winter was

close at hand ; already snowdrifts lay white
in shadowy corners, here and again frozen
waterfalls were clinging to the rocks, and
icicles frino-ed the sunless doses of the
torrent. And yet everywhere new light
and colour had kindled over the mountains
and the forest ; it seemed a world of frost
and fire burning to its end under the blue
heavens. Scarlet bushes flamed against
the hill-side, the red and yellow of the
changing larches made a sudden glory as
of sunlight amono the darkness of the
pines ; and every little leaf that crept
along the ground had taken tints of orange
and crimson and gold and purple-red, a
hundred different hues and contrasts melting
into one ruddy glow over the distant
slopes. In a few weeks, in a few days perhaps,
all would be changed; the larches
would stand stripped and grey, a uniform
whiteness replace all this glow and radiance.
And the very next day a change came.

Clouds gathered over the mountains, parting,
meeting, breaking again ; rolling vapours
filled the valley ; a snow-laden wind
arose, then fell in snowy flakes floating so
thickly in the still air that hardly could
the opposite hills be seen through the
white mist. There was no sitting out-of-doors
that afternoon ; instead of the fresh
pine-scent came a smell of burning wood ;
instead of sunshine, the doubtful joy of
stoves. It was a change adapted to please
no one. I was not surprised, therefore, on
going down to dinner after a long afternoon
spent in letter-writing, to find most
people depressed and not a few people cross.

'I had not expected this, I own,' said a
pale lady seated next to me. 'At this
season, and after yesterday too, this kind of
weather is not at all what I had been led
to expect at Sonnenplatz.'

I have been wondering,' I said, with
such cheerfulness as I could muster,

what has become of the travellers who

left yesterday morning, Madame W

and her daughter, I mean. They must
be even worse off at St. Michael than we
find ourselves here, and should much snow
have fallen in the passes they may have
some difficulty in returning.'

For my part, I should not be sorry if
they stayed away altogether,' said my pale
neighbour, ' I consider them no acquisition
to our society ; none whatever. Quite the
reverse, indeed.'

You do not like Madame W and

her daughter ?' I said. ' I thought them
interesting. The girl is handsome ; and
though the mother, whom indeed I have
hardly seen, is not attractive-looking '

Attractive-looking ! My dear Madame

R ! Madame W attractive-looking !

Do you know who and what she is ? A
gambler  a professional gambler ; nothing
less, I assure you.'

A gambler  you surprise me,' I said ;
and as I spoke, my thoughts flew to my
foolish and impulsive young acquaintance,
the Baron. In what foolish dilemma had
he set himself? 'Are you quite sure?'
I said.

Perfectly certain  as certain as I can
be without having actually seen her at
the Monte Carlo tables. And that of
course would be impossible ; I should
never dream of going there. But I have
it on the best authority, and I have no
doubt she has gone over to St. Michael on
some such errand now.'

But there are no gambling tables,' I
said, ' at St. Michael.'

My dear Madame R , there is

private gambling everywhere for people
who desire it.' And with the words she
rose, dinner being ended, leaving me to
meditate on this suggestion of limitless
iniquity.

Coming out into the hall from the diningroom,
1 saw a large letter, addressed nth

many flourishes to Baron Friedrich S

lying on the hall-table. My attention was
directed to it by a ray of moonlight fallen
across the white envelope through the glass
upper half of the front door. The snow
had ceased then ; I wrapped my shawl more
closely round me, opened the door and
went out. What a night it was ! The
storm was over and gone. Some sudden
change had swept the sky clear, and the
retreating clouds lay piled in fleecy masses
far down the valley ; overhead a half moon
was setting towards the mountains among
scattered stars in a sky of ethereal blue ;
the air was still and intensely cold, and a
light covering of snow lay everywhere.
An impulse seized me ; I went back into
the house, and wrapping myself in furs,
presently sallied forth again to brave the
snow, which indeed was but an inch or

VOL. II. D

two deep, and made my way up the steep
hill at the back of the hotel to the pine-woods.
A narrow pathway wound up the
hare slope and was presently lost in a
wider path leading through the forest to
summer alps above. I did not venture
far ; for though I had once before been
there by daylight, the moonlight and the
shadows, the drifted snow and crossing-tracks
confused me now ; I paused near
the edge of the wood and looked back
through an opening in the trees. Below
me lay the valley, wide and white and
faintly clear beneath the moonlit and starlit
sky ; yellow lights shone from the clustered
houses of the village and from scattered
chalets beneath the hills, a warm
glow as of human fellowship reaching
across the empty wastes of snow. But all
about in clear moonlight and deepest
shadow stood the pine-trees, strange, mysterious,
with outstretched, motionless

branches in the mysterious silence of the
nioht. Xot a breath of air was stirring; 
in silent fellowship they stood, in secret
confidence, in unspoken sympathy vdih
each other and with the night. AVhat had
such as I to do among them ? A weird
sense of loneliness came over me, as of
one standing in an alien world, remote
from human life.

What was this? A figure rushing up
the moonlit slope, mildly gesticulating, disappearing
in the darkness of the trees.

Could it be Something not unknown

in form and gesture seemed to reveal tome
the presence of my young friend, the
Baron.

This intruder had broken the spell of the
mysterious hour. It was cold, I found ; it
was more than lonely ; and I made my way
back quickly to the hotel. A fresh track
of wheels showed itself on the snow outside
; within, the letter was gone from the

d2

hall-table. It was, then, in fact, the Baron
that I had seen ? But what, oh, what
could have happened ?

My room was on the second floor of the
hotel, near the end of a long corridor. On
the one side it had no communication with
any other apartment ; on the other there
was a door leading; into a arose bed-room.
Now, it is Avell-known to everyone, that
neither scruples the most honourable, no,
nor yearnings the most profound for silence
and for quiet, avail to shut out all consciousness
of one's neighbours in a hotel ;
and though my door was locked and protected
by a curtain, I had not been long
unaware that the room adjoining mine

was occupied by Madame W and

her daughter. My conjecture that they
had returned from St. Michael was confirmed
then as soon as I went upstairs that
night ; for the silence that for two days
had reigned in their apartment was broken

nov. Slight movements indicated their
presence ; voices went on in a peaceful
murmur; occasionally a few words in
French or in Russian could be distinguished
; yes, the travellers had come back.

A furious knocking at their door, a lock
violently burst open, a tornado, a whirlwind,
one would say, entering their room.
I heard a chair or two knocked over ; I
heard a faint exclamation from Miss Vera ;
and I guessed that my fiery and vehement
young Baron had come to pay them a
visit. It was now past ten o'clock ; all the
lights downstairs were ]put out ; reluctant
therefore, though I was, to be even remotely
present at what, judging from the
raised voices, would be a stormy interview,
there was no way of escape. The
confused mixture of tongues, however,
French, German, and Russian all going at
once, prevented my distinguishing any one
of them clearly; the inconvenience and

annoyance were on my side alone. Seeing
no prospect of rest, I employed myself
with some packing, and could only trust
that the Baron might presently depart,
and leave me. no less than his friends, in
peace. And, in fact, in the very height of
the storm came a lull. * Jamais ! jamais !
jamais !' I heard the Baron exclaim passionately,
with increasing vehemence at each
utterance of the word. Then a door
slammed violently ; there Alas a dead
silence  a silence so profound, that it
affected me like a shock. I stood awaiting
breathlessly whatever might come
next. Screams would it be, sobs, hysterics
from the two women left together?
Or could they both have fainted from
emotion ?

At last there was a movement. A
chair grated on the floor; a footstep
crossed the room. ' Maman,' I heard Miss
Vera say, close to my door.

An inarticulate murmur from Madame

Y .

Maman, this flounce is half torn
away. Would it be better, do you think,
to mend it, or shall I take it off altogether?'


CHAPTER III.

All night it froze hard, and the morning
following was brilliantly fine. It was the
hast severe frost of the season, and presently,
as we stood outside after breakfast,
in the sunshine, the children came running
up in great excitement.

There are the most beautiful icicles,'

they cried. ' Madame R , do come and

see the icicles at the water-mill. Oh !
there is Miss Vera ; let us ask her to come
too.'

I turned, and beheld Miss Vera issuing
from the front door. I looked at her with
interest ; not a sign, not a trace of last
night's storm. She issued serene and

smiling, as a goddess might issue from a
cloud, unmoved by mortal woe. Not that
in Miss Vera's appearance there was anything
divine ; no blooming maiden was
ever cast in a less goddess-like mould. The
children, who were very fond of her, each
seized a hand and draoo-ed her forward.

Do come for a walk,' they said ; ' weare
going to see the icicles.'

 Icicles ? what is it you call icicles ?'
said Miss Vera.  I shall come with
pleasure. Where are the little cats this
morning?'

Our way lay across wide meadows,
whence the snow was already melting in
the hot sunshine. In the midst of the
meadows stood the waterfall, a big irregular
brown and white chalet, with a sloping
grey wooden roof, and small square
windows opening on to an outside wooden
gallery. The water flowed through a long
wooden trough supported on heavy piles

that rose in height as the ground sank, the
swift stream rushing out at the further end
in a foaming fall, to wind through the
meadows beyond. But all along the trough
the water dripped, and as it dripped it
froze, drop by drop, till all the rough beams
and planks were fringed and armed with
pointed glittering ice-spears of crystal
clearness, like the fairy-guarded portal of
some snow-queen's ice-palace ; a sight so
strange and beautiful that we stood gazing
at it with delight. Only the children, who
were not fond of standing still, presently
fell with rapture to breaking off the icicles
and watching them float down a transparent
thread of water that ran below the
trough over a pebbly bed.

Miss Vera seemed to find as much
pleasure in this simple pastime as the children
themselves. Yes, she found a genuine
entertainment apparently, in dipping her
fingers in the ice-cold water ; and that with

an air of absorption that seemed to exclude
every other idea. A heartless hussy, I felt
half-disposed to call her in my thoughts ;
for the young Baron's passionate tones were
still vibrating in my ears. My friends,
however, who knew nothing of last night's
scene, and whose heart, like the children's,
had been won by Miss Vera's good-natured
ways, looked on smiling at the handsome
girl.

This must remind you of a Russian
winter. Miss Vera,' said Mrs. Meadows.

Miss Vera looked up. ' I do not know,'
she said.  I have not been in Russia since
I was no bigger  not so big as little Jenny
here.'

Do you always travel about then ?'
said my friend.

Always,' she said, getting up and rubbing
her cold fingers, ' at least, no, not
always. My mother, she has been backwards
and forwards, and my father, too.

when he is well enough. But I was at
school for a long time in Paris. Then my
mother came and fetched me away, and
since then we travel.'

It was a new idea to me that Miss Vera
had a father. I do not know why, but it
had not occurred to me before. I asked if
he were now in Russia.

'No,' she said, 'he is in Rome. This
cold climate does not suit him.'

AYe had left the mill, and were walking
back now in the direction of the hotel. All
at once, Ave beheld a tall figure appearing
across the level meadows, advancing rapidly
towards us with a swinging step.

Why, there is the Baron,' cried little
Jenny, 'let us run and give him an icicle.'

The poor Baron, to judge from his
appearance, woidd have been glad of a
welcome more genial than that implied by
the gift of an icicle. He was pale, with
dark rings round his eyes, and looked

Uglier than usual as he came striding over
the half-frozen meadows. He had. apparently
not seen Miss Vera before that day,
and. she received, him with the utmost propriety.
' Bon jour, Baron,' she said, with a
little bow and smile. The Baron could not
have expected her to be demonstrative in
our presence, and yet Jenny's icicle could,
in fact, hardly have had a more freezing
effect upon the young fellow He grew
paler than before, and turned abruptly
away.

Are you going back to the hotel ?' he
said. ' I will walk with you.'

These words where addressed to me, not
to Miss Vera ; and the rest of the party
going on in front, wee taro where left behind.
For a while wee hardly spoke as eye walked
along. My companion was in a silent
mood apparently, responding but briefly
to the remarks I made. He and. his friends,
I presently observed, had returned sooner

from St. Michael than was expected, and
lie answered, ' Yes, the expedition had
proved a failure ; it was too late in the

season. The friends Madame W had

expected to find were gone ; the hotels
were shut up. Then the snow came, and
they had thought it best to return.'

That was wise,' I said, * for although
you young people might have thought it
no great hardship to be snowed up on a
mountain  rather, indeed, have enjoyed

the adventure  Madame W might

reasonably have taken a different view.'

You are mistaken, madame,' he said,
bitterly. ' Mademoiselle Vera would enjoy
no adventure that entailed discomfort, and
certainly would find my society no kind of
compensation.'

Nothing is more difficult than to answer
a remark of this kind. Sympathy
would be resented ; assent or contradiction

would be equally out of place. I hastened
to change the subject.

What a difference,' I said, ' only a few
hours sometimes makes in these mountain
valleys ! Who could have foreseen a day
like this in the midst of yesterday's storm ?
Last night even was quite beautiful. I
went up into the pine-woods after dinner,
and I never saw anything more enchanting.'

'Were you in the pine-woods, madame?'
he said, in a very dismal melancholy manner.
' I also was there, but I did not see
you. I was not quite myself; I had received
a letter '

With no bad news, I trust?'

The worst,' he said, striking his forehead
nth his hand  ' the worst.'

Shall I own it ? I was really charmed
\ith my young friend. A more romantic
young fellow, or one With a livelier appreciation
of his own sufferings, I had never

come across. And yet I was sorry for him
too ; for if, as I felt convinced, lie got no
small enjoyment out of his unhappiness.
his unhappiness was none the less real, as
his pale and woe-begone looks sufficiently
testified. ' I am sorry you have had
bad news,' I said ;  I am afraid I cannot
be of any use to you; but if I can, tell
me.'

You are very good, madame,' he said,
nth a profound sigh.  No  no one can
be of any use to me. It is my misfortune
to be in a position in which I am bound
by the action of others, and have myself
no power to act.'

I considered a moment. ' Will you
tell me about it?' I said. 'Perhaps
in talking it over some remedy might suggest
itself that does not appear now.'

We sat down on some logs of Avoid,
dried by the heat of the sun. Baron Friedrich
leaned forward, nth his elbows on his

knees, his chin resting on his hands, uttering
such profound and lamentable sighs
that it was quite a relief when he spoke at
last.

There is no remedy,' he said, staring
gloomily before him ; ' my father refuses

his consent, Madame W Withdraws

hers ; all is to be at an end between us.'

*Your father has perhaps reasons *

I ventured to suggest.

Reasons ! Gracious powers, what
reasons can he have? Yes, I know his

reasons  Of Madame W 1 say nothing.

She is the mother of my betrothed ; I will
not breathe a word against her, though her
conduct has been cruel, most cruel. She
has broken her most sacred promise and
destroyed the happiness of two most devoted
hearts. Madame, I shall bid you an
eternal farewell. I shall not remain here.
My own misery I must endure as best I
can, but I cannot remain to witness lier

VOL. II. E

suffering. Already I see traces of it. She
is looking' pale to-day. Do you not think
her looking pale to-day ?'

I  had not remarked it,' I was obliged
to own.

Ah,' he said, ' you do not know her
face as I do  Last night,' he went on, after
a pause, ' we had a terrible interview.
The case, madame, in brief, is this. I amin
the most unfortunate position of being
entirely dependent on my father ; and after

last night's fatal letter, Madame W

refuses to entertain my proposals for her
daughters hand. She absolutely withdraws
the consent she had already given,
unless my father  no matter however, for
those odious details. Enough that she
refuses to sanction her daughter's engagement,
unless I have the prospect of a fixed
income, and that she has compelled Mademoiselle
Vera to adopt her views. You
remarked her manner to me this morning ?'

Yes,' I said readily, ' I had remarked
that.'

I was angry with her,' he said. ' I
spoke harshly of her just now. Forget my
words, madame. What she did, was done in

obedience to her mother. Madame W

is not a person to be trifled With. I own
that when I left them together last night
I suffered more for her than for myself, as
I thought of all she might have to undergo
at her mother's hands.'

Knowing something of what really had

passed in Madame W 's room after the

Baron left it, my heart was less torn than
it might otherwise have been by this
suggestive picture of Miss Vera's woes.
Now, I thought, was the moment for a few
words of counsel and common-sense.

Madame W is perfectly right,

Baron,' I said, ' how can she possibly let
her daughter marry you, if you have
nothing to live upon ? Have patience.

E 2

uSiTYOFlUiNOIS

Don't be heart-broken yet. I will venture
to prophesy that you will neither of you
die of despair, in the course of  the next
twelvemonth, let us say. If at the end of
that time, you are both in the same mind  '

I know, I know,' he said, interrupting
me with the utmost impatience, * that is
what people always say. A twelvemonth
an eternity ! And as for being in the
same mind  madame, to one who is
privileged to love that adorable lady, the
very idea of change is desecration.'

But is not that,' I said, ' the more
reason for waiting ? Your affections will
not alter, but your circumstances may.
Your father may change his mind, and if

so, you may be sure that Madame W

will do so also. For after all, she is quite
in the right, you know. People cannot
live upon love alone, my young friend ;
they require food, clothes, lodging, money,
in short  and more than money, an income

that can be depended upon. And not
even a small income in these days '

I could have continued for some time,
talking in this strain, for I felt that I had
right on my side. But I was interrupted
by my companion.

Madame,' he said, rising with a certain
solemnity and standing in front of me,
what you say is true  oh, undoubtedly

true. I heard it all from Madame W

last night. And you think that words like
these can touch the heart? No,madame; you
have misunderstood me, and I  ' with a
slight change and quiver in his voice,
'have misunderstood you. When I first
saw your face, something in it touched me
with an assurance of sympathy that led me
to confide in you. With you I felt that I
might speak heart to heart ; and you
answer me with words about food, and
lodging, and incomes. Madame, I have
been mistaken in you.'

He took off his hat with an air of dignity,
and strode away over the snow,
leaving me seated on the log, perfectly disconcerted.
And yet, after all, I was in the
right !

CHAPTER IV.

I DID not sit long. The sky had clouded
over in the last half-hour, and before I
reached home it had begun to snow again.
As I went upstairs to my room I saw the
Baron and Miss Vera walking up and down
the honos corridor, talking; and lauo;hino*
very loud, as was their custom when they
were together. Miss Vera, I feel sure,
had no sentiment whatever in her nature,
and can have permitted none but the most
prosaic and matter-of-fact love-making.
At luncheon the Baron never once looked
at me, though his seat was nearly opposite
mine. But then he was eno-ao-ed in watch

o

ing Miss Vera, who sat at some little distance
on the other side of the table.

Madame W did not appear, and Miss

Vera vanished before lunch was over. The
Baron followed her, and I saw no more for
the time of either.

Late in the afternoon, however, coming
out of my room, I found Baron Friedrich
wandering up and down the corridor on
which, it may be remembered, Madame

W 's room opened as well as my own.

All the fine spirits he had shown but now
in Miss Vera's company had disappeared.
He came up to me looking very disconsolate
and sad.

Madame,' he said, ' I have come to
ask your forgiveness. I am afraid I was
very rude to you this morning.'

'Xot at all,' I answered, 'you thought
me, no doubt, worldly-wise and hardhearted
as most young people think their
elders Who give them the benefit of their

twenty or thirty years' extra experience.
But let us say no more about it.'

He looked at me in silence for a minute.
It is not only that,' lie said then, very
dismally, ' your advice was good, no
doubt; but it is not only a question of
money. There are stories, false reports
that have been spread, that are at the
bottom of all my troubles. That is how
my father came to write such a letter as
the one I received last night  a letter
that mil make the despair of my whole
life.'

What stories, what reports ?' I enquired,
' if any false reports have been
spread  and of course I am aware such
things do occasionally happen  perhaps
we might be able to set them right.'

That is not possible,' he said, with
an immense sio;h, shaking his head. " The
mischief is done. My father believes
these stories; he is old and prejudiced. Nothing

will induce him to give the consent
he has once refused."

That seems hard, no doubt,' I said.
We had walked to the end of the corridor
where a lighted stove sent out a red glare,
and a window showed the twilight air
thick with snow  I can see it all now, and
my tragic young Baron standing in front
of me, an image of woe. ' That seems
hard,' I repeated, 'but supposing  we
will not say there is no exaggeration in
the stories ; there always is in these cases
but supposing they should in some
measure be true ? You know nothing

of Madame W , do you? You have

only met her here ?'

What has that to do with it ?' he said,
firing up, ' I don't want to marry Madame

W . I want to marry her daughter.

I do not like Madame W . I will not

say a word agdnst her ; she is the mother
of my betrothed ; but she is worldly,

avaricious, intriguing. She lias used me
cruelly. This very afternoon she separated
us, when for one moment we were happy
together. I do not think I shall ever forgive
her.'

*But you cannot expect Mademoiselle
Vera to share your opinion on that point,'
I said, ' both her affection and her sense
of duty as a daughter may induce her to
see things from her mother's point of view
rather than from yours ; may they not?'

You think her false to me ?' he said,
fiercely.

I did not say so,' I answered, ' but
without being false, she may very properly
feel that an engagement nth you against
both your parents' wishes might be  imprudent,
to say the least of it. Or did
she, when you were discussing the subject
last night, give you any reason to think
otherwise ?'

The poor young man's countenance fell.

All, I am very unhappy he said, ' I
am indeed most unhappy. It is exactly
on that point 1 can gain no positive assurances
from Mademoiselle Vera. Last night
I will own that she seemed to me to side
entirely with her mother, and I was cut to
the heart. To-day I spoke to her again ;
for nothing should induce me to break an
engagement entered upon with Madame

W 's solemn sanction, except by her

own desire ; but she evaded the question.
She is so light-hearted and gay  I am
always happy when I am with her. My
God, how happy we have been together  '

He gave a sort of groan as he uttered
these last words. Almost he convinced
me, that he would in fact never be happy
again.

Listen,' I said, ' if you take my
advice, this is what you will do. Your
duty to your father you must settle nth
jour own conscience ; but as regards

Mademoiselle Vera, you cannot possibly
persevere in an engagement-Nvith her, if,
as is apparently the case, she very properly
Ashes to follow her mother's orders. That
is the point you have to ascertain. See
Miss Vera once more, and insist on coming
to a clear understanding A\ith her. So much
you fairly owe to each other ; and when
you have ascertained her real feeling in
the matter, you will know better what todo.
Only, if I may venture to say so,
should you find Mademoiselle Vera not
altogether heart-broken at the idea of a
separation, constancy on your side vnll be
no virtue, but the reverse. Miss Vera will
not thank you for it, and you have other
affections and duties in life. Baron.'

The dinner-bell had rung, and people
were issuing from their rooms. "We could
not stand talking any longer, and I was
not sorry ; for my last piece of advice was
so excellent that it could not, I felt, be

improved upon. As regards the fonder
part of my speech, I may own at once, I
might have spoken very differently, had I
not iDeen convinced of Miss Vera's indifference.
I half-expected to see the fiery
young Baron start off again in a new rage
at my last words ; but he seized my
hand instead, and kissing it in his impetuous
fashion, disappeared down the
stairs, just as Miss Vera, opening her door,
appeared in a becoming dress, ready for
dinner.

There was peace in the room next to
mine that night, and at breakfast the next
morning I saw neither the Baron nor Miss
Vera. I saw neither of them all day
indeed, for I went for a long drive,
returning only late in the afternoon,
so that I missed the luncheon hour.
Later still I walked up to the chalet
on the hill-with the children ; then
leaving them to return home alone, I sat

down on a bench placed half way up the
slope, to watch the changing sunset
colours on the snowy view of Alps. I had
sat there but some five minutes when I
saw the Baron approaching with his usual
rapid strides. He came and stood before
me.

I am going away,' he said.

And that is the wisest thing you can
do,' I answered, ' I am glad indeed to
hear it, Baron. When do you go ?'

This evening, in half-an-hour. I
have been looking for you, madame, to
wish you good-bye. You were right, perfectly
right, in everything you said. I
have been insulted  no, never did I think
one of my name and family would be so
insulted. I will not remain here,' he
went on, with growing excitement, 'it
would gratify them too much to see a
misery I could not conceal. Among
strangers, in a spot where I am unknown,

it will be easy to put an end to an existence
such as mine.'

No such thing,' I said, ' no one yet
put an end to his existence that we know
of. That is a matter of pure hypothesis,
you know ; and until it is a proved fact,
I really advise you. Baron, to let your
existence alone. Why do you not go back
to Germany? It would be surely the
wisest thing you could do.'

I don't know that,' he said, ' my
home is not a happy one.'

He sat down beside me and began to
talk of his life, of the early death of his
mother, of a harsh and unloving father, of
all his youth embittered by a sense of
ugliness and awkwardness and a hopeless
craving for affection and sympathy. He
spoke very quietly, though with tears in
his eyes ; I felt more true sympathy with
him then, than through all his romantic
ravings. And yet, when he came to speak

of Miss Vera, the poor boy broke down
altogether. Yes, he had thought that she
really loved him, awkwardness, ugliness >
all ; and now that he had discovered she
was only a heartless schemer, it nearly
broke his heart.

Miss Vera is heartless, no doubt,' I
answered. ' I doubt if she be a schemer ;
she leaves that part I imagine to her
mother, whilst she amuses herself. Or if
she have a heart, you at least have not
found it ; and believe me, it is well for
you, as you yourself will see some time or
other.'

'Never,' he said, in his romantic style
there are some feelings that can never be
effaced, that one Avould not wish to be
effaced. And that,' he went on, more
quietly, ' is one reason why I do not at
present wish to return to Germany. My
father has a marriage in view for me that
he wishes to arrange.'

VOL. II. F

Indeed !' I said, and considered a moment.
' Naturally,' I said then, ' I can
understand that at present any such idea
must be very distasteful to you. But apart
from that, is it a marriage you object to ?'

'How do I know?' he said gloomily,
' I have never seen her. How can I care
to marry a woman I have never seen ?'

We had reached the bottom of the hill
by this time, for we had been walking onwards
as we talked, and I could see the
carriage with the Baron's portmanteau tied
on behind waiting in front of the hotel.
I stood still for a minute. ' Well,' I said,
I have given you a good deal of advice
in the last few days ; and here is the last
With which I shall trouble you. Go home
to your father, and do not refuse to seethe
lady he wishes you to marry.'

And if I do not take your advice ?'
he said, smiling a little.

Write and tell me,' I answered.

Ah, madame,' he said, simply, ' all
my life I shall remember your kindness
and rejoice to have met you. But for
your goodness I should be still more miserable
than I am.'

He looked really affected as he spoke,
and I was glad that this farewell did not
take place in front of the hotel, where
there was no little excitement at the young
Baron's departure. Nay, looking up, I
fancied that 1 saw Miss Vera peeping out
from behind her bed-room curtain. The
poor young fellow looked quite red and
embarrassed when he saw the crowd that
had assembled to see him off. And need I
say that everyone knew not only the events
of the last few days, but a great deal besides
that had never happened ?

The doctor came up the gravel path
just as the Baron had settled himself in
the carriage, and the driver was gathering
up the reins.

f2

You are going away ?' lie said. ' That
is right.'

And what the devil may it concern
you one way or the other?' said the Baron,
orrowlino. And in the same moment the
driver raised his whip, the horse started
oiF, my young Baron was gone.

CHAPTER V.

I WENT back into the hotel, feeling a
blank in my life. It was astonishing how
the young fellow had filled my thoughts
for the last three days, how much he had
interested me, how anxious I felt about
him. Indeed, I felt extremely anxious.
For without attaching too much importance
to his "svild talk, what more natural
than that a young man in desperate mood
should commit some rash deed on a moment's
impulse. I expressed these fears
to Mrs. Meadows.

My dear,' she said, ' I do wonder that
with your knowledge of the world, you
should give yourself a moment's uneasiness.

Depend upon it, in a week, Baron
Friedrich will have forgotten Miss Vera as
completely almost as if she had never
existed

And this I thought so unfeeling that I
could forgive Mrs. Meadows only in remembering
that she did not know the Baron as
well as I did.

This was on Saturday. On Wednesday
morning I was to leave Sonnenplatz, and
during the next three days my time was
so fully occupied that I own I presently
forgot to make myself uneasy about the
Baron. I felt as if I had spent weeks
rather than days at Sonnenplatz. Every
detail of the friendly little place had become
familiar to me, and I liked it all. I
liked the monotony and the variety alike ;
the hotel life with its stirring incidents,,
ten minutes long ; the sleepy village,
where the shops stood closed half the day ;
the alternations of snow and sunshine, the

storms gathering and clearing on the
mountain sides, the inter days set in
summer skies of heavenly blue ; I liked
the peace of the wide valley, the fresh
health-giving, pine-scented air. Late on
Tuesday I went to take my last walk in
the pine woods. It was a silent windless
afternoon, the sky all one grey cloud, with
now and then a pale sun appearing through
drifting vapours. The pine-trees stood
around me dark and motionless ; between
the scattered trunks I could see the mountains
opposite, indigo blue with snowy
summits against the low grey sky. All
about me, lopped branches lay strewn and
roots of trees ; the woodcutters had been
at their work. But they were gone now,
and the sound of waters falling in the
distance, far-ois noises rising from the
valley, the song and chirp of a bird hard
by, alone disturbed the forest silence. It
was a still melancholy waiting day, as of a

dying world. I sat leaning against a stone,
with thoughts that soon strayed far from
that quiet Alpine valley ; it was with a
start that I came back suddenly to Sonnets
at the sound of a footstep close at
hand. I had heard no one approach along
the path thickly strewn With pine-needles ;
and my astonishment is not to be expressed
in words, when looking round, I saw
the Baron. I am not superstitious ; but a
thought of wraiths appearing at the moment
of death, did pass through my mind
before his voice re-assured me.

You are surprised to see me, madame,'
he said ; and no doubt I was staring at
him as if he were in very truth a
ghost.

I certainly am,' I answered, ' I
thought you were gone  half-way to
Germany by this time. What has brought
you back?'

'You told me to write if I did not take

your advice he said, ' but you see I have
done better. I have come back myself to
tell you.'

I do not think it is better at all,' I
said, ' I think it is exceedingly foolish.
You have returned, I suppose, to renew
this silly affair that I had hooded was broken
off. However, I cannot stay to discuss it.
I leave Sonnenplatz early tomorrow morning,
and I must return to the hotel to finish
my packing.'

On my word of honour,' said the
Baron, standing before me nth his hand
on his heart as I was about to rise, ' I
have no intention whatever of having anything
further to do with those ladies whose
acquaintance I made here. That is an
episode that already seems to belong to a
remote past. A disillusion, madame, is
like a death from which one rises another,
a transformed being ; only, between oneself
and the past stands an open grave. Such

a grave I have passed through in these last
days.'

You are a very singular young man I
could not help saying ; and I feel sure he
took it as a compliment. ' But why
have you come back to Sonnenplatz ?'

*Why should I not come back?' he
said. ' I have friends here, I like the
hotel, I like the place, the air agrees with
me. Why should I be kept away by two
people who have become perfectly indifferent
to me ?'

In three days !' I said.

Dear madame, what is time ?' he
answered. 'Are there not days that seem
years, moments that our sufferings expand
to an eternity ? You tell me,' he continued,
walking by my side, ' that it is three
days since I left Sonnenplatz, and counted
by the clock it may be so ; but measured
by my emotions, my whole life, before has
hardly seemed so long.'

I

'Very good,' I replied, 'but to ordinary
mortals three days, neither more nor
less, have elapsed since you left Sonnets
Everything is just as it was ; the
hotel has not moved, Mademoiselle Vera
and her mother are still here, and you mil
have to meet them.'

As strangers,' he said, ' I give you
my word of honour, madame, I can meet
them as perfect strangers. I no longer
think of those ladies, except with a momentary
indignation at the way in which I
was treated.'

'That is well,' I said. 'But if I
were you, I would forgive them entirely.
You have had so much enjoyment in these
last three weeks '

Enjoyment !' he said, staring at me.
Ah yes,' T\ith a deep sigh, ' there were a
few days when I thought I knew what
happiness is.'

That is not quite what I meant,' I

answered, Here are different kinds of
happiness, you know. Confess whether
you have not found a certain enjoyment
as well as pain in these varied emotions
through which you have been passing.'

If my young Baron had a fault, it was
deficiency in the sense of humour. And
yet I am glad he did not find out that I
was laughing at him.

You are right,' he said, very seriously
after a pause, ' I would not have been
without this experience ; it has been an
initiation. Life can never again be to me
what it has been.'

And now,' I said, ' you will go back
to Germany, and see this lady whom your
father wishes you to marry.'

Do not speak of that,' he said, quite
naturally and so despondingly, that I felt
sorry for him, as I always did when we
had been talking together for a little while.
I have no desire to marry. I am too

Ugly and too awkward for any woman to
care for me, and I do not msh for an
unloving wife.'

That is all nonsense,' I said. ' I am
persuaded you would do your best to make
any woman happy whom you might marry,
and sbe would think you neither ugly nor
awkward, you may be sure. So, should
you happen to like the lady you speak
of, don't think of yourself at all, but do
what you can to make ber like you. I
have no doubt whatever you will succeed.'


This was the very last piece of advice I
gave Baron Friedrich. We bad reached the
hotel by this time, and behold, standing at
the door, Miss Vera. Sbe may possibly
have seen the Baron arrive, for she looked
neither surprised nor discomposed. He
raised his hat, she bowed slightly ; and
this was the only greeting that passed between
these young people, inseparable but

two weeks ago. The Baron's cure seemed,
in fact, to be radical.

I spent the winter in Italy. It was on
the banks of the Arno and the Tiber, among
ilexes and stone pines, palaces and art-galleries,
that I received letters from my
friends telling me of the drifting snowstorms,
the frozen waterfalls, the ice-bound
lakes of the white upper world where they
were dwelling. The Baron was gone, Mrs.
Meadows presently wrote to me. He had
stayed a fortnight only after my own departure
; they had seen little of him, as he
had German friends at another hotel with
whom he spent most of his time. Had he
gone to Germany? I wrote to enquire. But
Mrs. Meadows could not tell me. I supposed
that I should never hear of my
young Baron again.

Three months later I was in Rome.

Coming down to dinner one day, I thought
I heard accents familiar to me. I looked
round, and there, taking his place at a small
side-table, was Baron Friedrich. ISFot alone ;
with him was a very pretty, very fair-haired
little girl. She did not look more
than sixteen ; she had the ji'ettiest blue
eyes in the world, and a sort of infantine
grace and expression that were quite
charming.

The Baron recognised me at once, and
came flying across the room to me.

I had a presentiment,' he said, taking
both my hands, and shaking them nth the
utmost vehemence, ' that I should meet
you in Rome. And whom could I so
greatly desire to meet? Let me present
to you my wife, my Amelia.'

He led me up to the table where his
Amelie stood smiling. She looked first at
her husband, then at me, and shook hands
very willingly and cordially.

You must dine with us,' said the impulsive
young Baron. ' We will have
some speeches and a toast. We owe all
our happiness to you. Do we not, Amelie,
owe all our happiness to madame?' Amelia
again looking at her husband and then
at me, answered, ' Yes, yes, all.'

I dined with the young couple. The
Baron was overflowing with happiness and
effusive cordiality; he drank my health,
and his Amelie's health and his own health.
Why should I not drink my own health,'
he cried, ' when I have the inexpressible
happiness of knowing that it is as precious
to another as to myself ? Is it not precious
to you, my Amelie?' And Amelie looking
at him answered, ' Yes, my Friedrich,
most precious.'

So the Baron, after all, had found the
wife of all others best suited to him, a
little girl whom he adored and who adored
him, who looked up to him indeed, as the

best and wisest of beings. And since to
be accounted mise and good not seldom
induces wisdom and virtue, I had great
hopes of Baron Friedrich in the future.
Amelie, as I have said, was charming in
appearance, nor lacked either wit or intelligence,
I discovered, when she found
courage to talk a little. And when after
dinner we went into the salon, which we
had to ourselves, and her husband asked
her to go to the piano, she sat down and
sang and played quite delightfully.

The Baron seated himself by me, and
presently, whilst his wife played, began to
talk about her.

 It is indeed to you, madame,' he said,
with real feeling, ' that I owe all my
happiness. "Without you, I might never
have returned to Germany ; I might never
have seen my Amelie. I might have done
I know not what wild thing in that moment
of despair.'

VOL. II. G

Despair !' I said, smiling, * your despair
did not last very long ; that you must
allow.'

The Baron was still himself, I found.

It was a terrible time,' he said, very
gravely, shaking his head, ' a terrible time.
I do not like to think of it now. But your
kindness,' he went on, more lightly, ' I
shall never forget. Ah, madame, when I
first saw my Amelie come smiling into the
room, and knew that this was the Avise my
father had chosen for me, I felt that fate
was indeed kind, that it was relenting towards
me at last. Is she not charming?'
he went on, ' does she not play divinely?
has she not an angel's smile ?'

I think she is altogether charming,' I
said sincerely, ' I congratulate you truly.
Baron. Take care of your "svife, for I feel
sure she will make you happy.'

Happy ? I am the most blessed among
mortals,' he said, ' and she is happy too.

Oh, I shall make her happy. She thinks
too well of me  a great deal too well ; but
I shall deserve it by devoting to her my
entire life.' Then raising his voice
That is enough, my angel,' he cried,
you have played enough. You mil tire
yourself, my Amelie, and we have a journey
before us tomorrow. Come and sit herein
this corner of the sofa by our good
Madame R .'

They were only passing through Rome,
I found, on their way to Naples, and were
to leave the next day. I saw them set off
the following morning, the Baron shaking
hands with me in his effusive way, up to
the last moment.

You are to come and see us in our
own home,' he said, holding both my
hands in his, ' we shall expect you in

the summer. Is not Madame R to

some, my Amelie, and see us in the
summer ?'

g2

And Amelie smiling, held out her hand
and said, ' Yes, come.'

I was destined to meet one more 
acquaintance in Rome. Two days
later I was walking through the gardens of
the Villa Borghese. It was a Saturday
afternoon, and I had been to see the
sculpture galleries. I was walking across
the grass, which the spring had strewn
with anemones and pale crocuses, when
I noticed a young lady just in front
of me, engaged apparently in picking
flowers. I thought I recognized her sealskin
jacket and flowing hair ; and when, a
moment later, she' turned her head, I
saw that it was in truth. Miss Vera.

She came towards me at once, her hands
full of anemones, and gave me one of her
pretty greetings. She looked very blooming,
full of health and spirits.

We have just come from Naples,' she
said, in answer to my inquiries. ' Maman

is pretty well, thank you ; I have left her
there in the carriage, whilst I am come topick
some flowers.'

Do you make any stay in Rome ?' I
asked.

No,' Miss Vera said,  we are going
on at once to Nice. Maman suffers too
much from the weather. It is so uncertain
in these south Italian towns.'

You have come, no doubt, to join
your father.' I said, remembering what she
had told us by the Sonnenplatz waterfall.

No,' she said, ' he is no longer here.
Rome does not agree A\dth him. He is now
in Paris.'

And that is the last I know of Miss
Vera.

He past ; a soul of nobler tone :
My spirit loved and loves him yet.'
In Memoriam.

This evenings, turning over an old portfolio
in search of a document, I came upon
a note dated some five-and thirty years
back. I had not forgotten its contents,
but I had not known that it still existed ;
and as I glanced at it now, my eyes grew
dim with memories.

Dear Merrier,' it ran, ' Your letter
pained me, of course ; you meant it to do
so, I presume. But it is no matter. You
know my philosophy  that the sum of
human things comes even in the end.

Once more, you are altogether wrong about
Charlotte. I know nothing of her, and had
nothing to do with her disappearance.
You do not believe me ; well, that is no
matter either  . I go up by the first train
tomorrow, and we shall not meet again.
If you care to write, my home address will
find me. God bless you, old fellow ; you
will take my blessing for what you think
it worth. ' Ambrose Male.'

No, I had not believed him, and I did
not write. My eyes grew dim with memories
as I laid the note down again and fell
into thought. I had but just come from
the death-bed of an old parishioner, who
had passed away in peace. To parsons, as
to doctors, familiarity sith death presently
begets a certain indifference. But that
note recalled a death-bed that must always
remain one of the most poignant memories
of my life. Yes, until my own hour shall

come, the hour that I can least forget is
that which held in it the death of the man
who had once been my best friend.

More than thirty years ago, I was making;
a fortnight's tour in Belgium. I had
lately been ordained to a curacy, and was
taking my first holiday. I was a fresh-looking
young fellow in those days, holding'
serious views of life ; and though
young for my years, had the fullest sense
of the dignity, no less than the responsibilities,
of the sacred profession I had lately
entered. My old aunt who lived with me
I had lost both my parents whilst still a
child  thought me the best boy in the
world, and petted me as though I were a
girl. Well, I was conceited and presumptuous,
no doubt ; something of a prig, too,
perhaps, as new-fledged curates are apt to
be  I have had plenty of experience with
them since then  but not a bad young

fellow on the whole. To do right myself,
and to set everybody else right, seemed tome
the most important thing in life ; and
the first part of the proposition, at any
rate, is not a bad formula for a man to
start with on his life's career.

I set out on my travels alone, and at
once plunging into some of the more picturesque
Belgian scenery, found myself,
on the evening of the third day, supping
in the big hotel of a little village lying
among hills and woods. I was supping
alone, at the end of the long table of an
empty salle-manger. A number of holiday
folk from a neighbouring town had come
to dine and departed ; silence had succeeded
their clamour ; the room, lighted by a
single lamp at my end of the table, seemed
abandoned to shadows and moonlight, and
to me, when a young man entered, and
calling for coffee and cognac, sat down in
the circle of light just opposite to me. He

was a man of about thirty, with a pleasant
and remarkably clever face ; and, presently,
falling into conversation dth him, I discovered
him to be the college doctor. He
was a native of the place, able to give me
information of which I was in need, concerning
the surrounding country ; and we
were engaged in talking, with my travelling
map spread on the table between us,
when a waiter entered and addressed a
few words to my companion in a low voice.

Excuse me for a moment,' he said,
turning to me courteously, ' there is a sick
man upstairs who requires my attendance.
I shall not be gone many minutes.'

In less than a quarter-of-an-hour he returned,
and sat down opposite to me
again ; but he did not at once resume our
conversation. He sat 'smith his hands
clasped behind his head, gazing before him
in silence.

A sad case,' he said at last, letting his

hands fall to his side,  a life thrown away.
A young fellow sounded mortally in a
duel, and brought in here, yesterday, to
die. All the doctors in Europe could not
save him. He won't live through the
nioht.'

'In a duel!' I said, surprised. Such
things, so far, had lain outside the range
of my experience.

Yes, Yith. some Frenchman. They
came here across the frontier. Such
affairs are not uncommon hereabouts ; but
they rarely terminate fatally. The other
fellow has made off: this one, by-the-by, is
a countryman of yours. Stay, I have his
name somewhere.'

He fumbled in his pocket for a notebook,
and abstracting a card, handed it tome
across the table. I read the name ; I
let the card drop.

Good God !' I said, ' Ambrose Male.'

'Do you know him?' said the doctor.

I knoAv the name  it may be another
man,' I answered, in profound agitation.
Is he young a big, loose-limbed man,
With marked features, a big nose, dull
brown hair lying straight across his forehead,
and the kindest, the most genial
smile imaginable ?'

Your description answers in every
particular,' said the doctor, 'except, indeed,
as regards the smile, which I have
not seen. He looks sad enough, poor
fellow. He is young : about your own age
I should think.' He looked at me with a
momentary humorous gleam that seemed
to say : ' In all other respects as unlike
you as possible.' ' He has grey eyes and
wears no beard ; on his little finger is a
green signet ring. If you are a friend of
his, I shall be glad. I asked him to-day if
I should send to anyone, and he said that
he had no relations, and not a friend in
the world that would come to him.'

The tears rushed to my eyes ; I could
not help it. I rose, and walking to one of
the long endows, stood with my back
turned to the room, looking out on the
moonlit garden.

Three years before, at Oxford, Ambrose
Malett had been my best friend. A lonely
man, a solitary soul, he had sought me out
through one of those contradictions that
sometimes provoke and cement the firmest
friendships. He was little known personally
at Oxford, yet made his mark at once
as a man of powers so unusual that everything
might be expected of him. The
expectation was founded on a misconception
of his character ; and yet perhaps not.
Who shall say? since death came at six-and-twenty
to solve the problem after its
own fashion. A prodigious and unfailing
memory, an almost incredible facility for
acquiring and assimilating knowledge,
were combined with one of the strangest

and most original minds I have ever come
across. He took, without appreciable
effort, every honour that Oxford has to
offer, and he took them with absolute indifference.
Knowledge, and always more
of the knowledge that he acquired With
such ease, seemed all that he desired.
He read for hours, not as the bookworm
reads, or the ordinary student ; but With a
prodigious, a devouring curiosity, an insatiable
craving, until in one direction or
another he reached the final limit and
faced the blank beyond. At such times,
as I learned to know, he fell into a
despondency that lasted sometimes for
days; then, rousing himself, he would
start again on some other track, to arrive
at the same result. His mind, I say, was
one of the strangest and most original I
have met with ; but it had no impulse, that
I ever discovered, towards original creation,
little even towards original research.

VOL. II. H

He had read every poem worth reading in
the English language, and knew half of
them by heart ; but I do not know that he
ever wrote a line of poetry. He would
take up some branch of science, and devour
every book on it he could find ; but that
done, he made no independent effort towards
fresh discovery  he turned to something
else. Some spring that moves to
practical action, some link common between
man and life, was lacking in him ;
his soul dwelt solitary and apart, thirsting,
drinking, insatiable ; only demanding incessantly
what no man ever yet had  no,
nor can have ever until the end of time.

He had few acquaintances at Oxford,
and no intimate friend but myself. Sometimes
he would come to my rooms and sit
silently watching me as I plodded on at
my reading. My vocation had early been
fixed, and I never wavered in my choice ;
I had never any idea but that of entering

the Church. Malett would sit smoking and
watching me in silence. ' Good old Frank,'
he would presently say, with his affectionate
smile, and laying a hand on my
shoulder as he left the room. Not unfrequently
we took long walks together ; and
by degrees, though he spoke little of his
affairs, I learned something of his life.
He was a man of small independent fortune
some hundreds a year, I think ; he had
no relations living but a paralysed and
childish old mother, yiih. whom he spent
the whole of his vacations, in some remote
country spot. He spoke little of himself,
and sometimes our walk would begin and
end in all but total silence. At other
times his flow of conversation was almost
unceasing ; and I have not yet met the
man who can talk as Malett did, when the
mood was upon him. I would not, if I
could, try to reproduce those talks ; what
withered and scentless weeds are those

H 2

that would fain represent the radiant
flowers of last year's garden ? He was
sometimes gay, more often serious. He
was no orthodox believer, and his unorthodoxy
shocked me at first ; he saw it ;
and while never hiding his opinions, was
careful to avoid shocking me again. But
all his views of the conduct of life were
simple, pure, and noble ; I have never met
purer or nobler ; and I can trace their
effect on my own mind to this day. And
yet he had planned no future career ; the
hopes and ambitions of other men seemed
to have no meaning for him. Something,
I say, was Wanting in him  some link that
reconciles common humanity to life, that
binds society together, that helps the eternal
duty of man to man. A tender heart, an
endless craving, a solitary soul ; such was
Ambrose Malett.

I remember his face raised one inter
night to the frozen, starlit sky. ' One

day we shall know he said ' yes, we shall
know  we shall know.'

You believe in the immortality of the
soul, Ambrose ?' I said. ' How do you reconcile
that with your other opinions?*

On no logical grounds,' he answered
briefly, and changed the subject.

I have said he had a tender heart ;
that is to say little. He had a capacity
for profound and passionate love. In the
course of our rambles, we made the acquaintance
 an ordinary young man's
adventure  of a farmer's daughter, a
young girl, who not without intention,
as I had afterwards reason to believe,
strongly attracted us both. I was in love ;
if not for the first time in my life, as much
as I had ever been before. But Charlotte
Smiles was not a girl I could have made
my wife ; and I must do myself the justice
to say, that recognizing the fact early in
our acquaintance, I broke off, with some

resolution, even the semblance of a flirtation.
With Malett it was different ; he fell
deeply and passionately in love vnih the
girl. The difference in station and education
seemed not to affect him ; it was impossible,
indeed, that an intellect such as
his could ever look for, or expect the sympathy
that springs from equal minds ; and
on the one occasion on which he spoke
to me on the subject  for a reserve had
sprung up between us in the matter  I inferred,
though he did not state it in so many
words, that he hoped to make Charlotte
his wife immediately on leaving Oxford.
Shortly afterwards, the girl disappeared
from her father's home. Certain circumstances
threw suspicion on Malett ; nothing
was, nothing could be, proved against
him ; but, to tell the story briefly, I
thought I had reason to believe the worst,
and I believed it. All my incipient love
for the girl herself blazed up in a flame of

passion and jealousy, and what I held to
be righteous indignation, at the story of
her disappearance and of her parents'
despair. Malett said very little ; he gave
me his word that he had had nothing todo
in the matter ; he saw that I did not
believe him, and he said no more. I, on
my side, broke With him. He had been
my best friend ; on more than one occasion
he had served me in a way that
should have won my undying gratitude.
But what gratitude survives a sense of
wrong? and, indeed, I held myself not ungrateful,
but just. I broke with him ; that
little note which fell under my hands tonight,
was the last I ever received in
his writing ; it was the last I heard of him
until that fatal evening when I learned that,
under the same roof with myself, he lay
dying among strangers in a strange land.

What storm of memories, old affection,
remorse, swept over me matters little now.

"Where were doubts and past suspicions?
Alas, that living or dying, clearness of
vision should come to enlighten us at the
supreme moment only. I turned from the
window to the doctor.

Can I see him ?' I said ; ' he was the
best friend I had in the world.'

Certainly you can see him,' he answered.
' I rejoice, indeed, that you or anyone
belonging to him should be here. I will
take you to him at once. He has a little
fever, but is otherwise quite quiet, no acute
suffering, happily. Nothing can harm him
now.'

 Do you mean that as a certainty?' I
said. ' Forgive me, I have no reason whatever
to doubt your capacity, or that you
have done everything that is right ; on
the contrary, you inspire me with confidence.
Still, in certain cases, a consultation
'

He shook his head, smiling a little. ' I

lay no claim,' lie said, ' to infallibility, and
could I see the faintest hope in a possible
change of treatment, I should be the first
to invite a consultation. But your friend's
case is hopeless ; the merest tyro in my
profession could not fail to see it at once.
It is only an unusual strength of constitution
that has enabled him to live till
now.'

He led the way as he spoke, up flight
after flight of the shallow hotel stairs, and
down a long passage to a remote and silent
part of the house. At the end of the
passage a door stood ajar. The doctor
paused before we reached it. ' You-will
wish to remain with your friend?' he said.

Undoubtedly,' I answered.

He gave me one or two brief directions,
then signing to me to wait for a moment,
opened the door and went in. The room
he entered was so small, that standing
there in the doorway, I took it in at a

glance. It was a little wooden room, with
broAvn walls, and a brown uncarpeted floor;
fresh, and pleasing in its simplicity. One
or two chairs, a table in the window, a
smaller one nth a lighted candle and some
phials, at the head of the bed where my
friend was lying, were, with the bed itself,
the principal furniture. He was alone. A
woman of the village who had attended
him during the day was but just gone, and
the doctor had undertaken to watch him
through the night ; but not the less, the
silence, the loneliness in which he lay there
dying, struck me painfully. He lay with
closed eyes, his hands spread out on the
counterpane, his head supported by pillows.
The night was warm, and though the little
casement stood wide open, he seemed oppressed
by the heat, and to breathe "smith
difficulty. He was not changed ; even in
early youth, his features had been too
marked to alter readily ; only the lines

with which I had been familiar, had deepened,
and the pallor of mortal sickness
overspread his countenance.

He opened his eyes as the doctor's step
approached his bed-side.

What time is it ?' he said, feebly.

About half-past nine,' said the doctor.
He laid his hand on his patient's wrist ashe
spoke, and stood for a moment noting
the pulse. ' There is a friend of yours
here,' he said then, ' who wants to see you.
I have brought him up.'

His forehead and mouth contracted painfully
for a moment. 'A friend of mine?'
he said, 'but I have no friends.'

I came forward. His glance fell upon
me and was suddenly illuminated. ' Frank !'
he cried.

He held out both hands ; I grasped them
in mine. For a long time we remained
motionless. I could not speak ; in what
words could I address him after my long

silence ? And I saw that he was dying.

His hold relaxed at last. The doctor
had silently disappeared, and we were
alone. It was he who spoke first. ' You
never believed me about Charlotte, Frank,'
he said, looking at me.

Don't speak of it,' I cried, ' I know that
I was wrong, utterly wrong. I want to tell
you that. Never mind the rest.'

On the contrary, I mind it very much,'
he said, in his feeble voice, 'it is a long
story, but I must tell it briefly. I suspected
at the time who was at the bottom of
Charlotte's disappearance, but I could never
bring it home to him. I could never come
upon a trace of her, until a few weeks ago,

when I saw her by chance in Paris '

His voice failed a little through weakness,
but in a moment he rallied and went on.
She was living there vdth some Frenchman
 never mind his name. I hunted her
up, and tried to persuade her to go home

to her parents. He resented my interference
; we fought  and here I am.'

It was that !' I cried confounded, ' it was
on account of Charlotte.'

Poor child, poor girl,' he murmured
closing his eyes.

I stood speechless for a while. For the
first time I realised Malett's part in the
duel of which the doctor had spoken. In
face of his mortal malady, I had forgotten
for the moment that malady's cause.

'Well?' he said at last, as I did not
speak.

Good heavens, Ambrose,' I said, ' you
are the last man, yes, the last man in the
world, I should have thought would fight
a duel.'

He smiled a little.

Why not,' he said, ' I had no intention
of killing the poor wretch who challenged
me ; he was safe enough from me.'

But the sin of it ' I began.

Oh, the sin of it, the sin of it  ' he said. * Sit
down, Frank,' he went on, raising his head,
and looking at me with a smile by the dim
light of the candle. ' So you're a parson
now, a priest I suppose you would call
yourself, and are going to save men's souls.
Well, you'll do a world of good, old fellow,
one way or another. I know so much
of you.'

His head fell back on the pillow.

Move the light, mil you ?' he said,
 there is nothing to do, and it hurts my
eyes ; we don't need a candle to talk by.'

I rose, and set the candle on a deal
table in the passage outside. The door
stood ajar; only a thread of light fell
through the opening. But though the
moon was on the other side of the house,
its suffused whiteness filled the room ; and
through the open casement, its light could
be seen falling on a tree-covered hill rising
just behind the hotel garden, its summit

defined against the pale summer heavens.
I took ray place again beside Malett's bed.
I could see bis face plainly in the twilight
as he lay nth it turned towards the
window, his eyes fixed on the sky. For a
long time he was silent ; I also did not
speak. My heart was weighed down by
the sense of our long estrangement ; it was
breaking at the thought that we should
have met only to find him like this. He
spoke again, quite suddenly.

You never believed me about Charlotte
he said.

'For God's sake, Ambrose,' I cried in
anguish, ' don't speak of that again. Forgive
me, forgive me ! the loss all these years
has been mine.'

No, no,' he said feebly, ' and it is no
matter ; all is over now, and it is all one.
Life too will be over in a few hours, and
that is well. Strange,' he went on, after a
pause, 'that men should dread death as

they do. I have thought so always ; now
that I am dying, I think so more than ever.
To dread the unknown  when to know the
unknowable is the great and unattainable
desire of life.'

Most men think otherwise,' I said, ' the
love of life is strong.'

Yes, yes, I know it,' he said, ' and it is
better so ; it should be so. But something
has gone wrong between me and life ; I
have felt a stranger in it always. Death
is best.'

He lay silent again for a long while. His
breathing was difficult and oppressed ] but
he was suffering no acute pain, he told me ;
he may even have dozed, as he lay there,
his eyes opening and closing from time to
time. Now and then the mind stirred the
trees on the hill outside, the shadows
slowly moved with the advancing night ;
otherwise all was still. But presently he
began to turn restlessly in the bed; his

hands, hot with fever, strayed over the
counterpane. When he spoke again, his
mind was wandering a little.

I suppose you go back to Oxford at
once, old fellow T he said. ' I should like
to get back there, if it were only for a day.
My mother is dead, you know ; poor mother.
The meadows down by the river  it
would be cooler there than here ; we might
have another walk together. Charlotte  '

The words died away in a murmur ; but
all at once, half-raising himself in bed :
No one has believed in me, no one has
cared for me,' he said, in a strange loud
solemn voice, such as I had never heard
him use before, ' and knowledge is ignorance,
and one drinks and drinks and the
eternal thirst is never quenched, never  '

He looked round wildly, till his eyes
falling on me in the imperfect light, gradually
full consciousness returned. He lay
back quietly.

VOL. II. I

Give me some water, mil you, Frank?'
he said, in an exhausted voice.

I did as he desired. ' I must have been
asleep, I think,' he said, as his head sank
again on the pillow. ' I should have liked
to tell you all about my wanderings,
Frank,' he went on presently, *I have
Wandered a good deal since we last met ;
but I suppose there won't be time. What
o'clock is it?'

He felt feebly under the pillow for his
watch. I went to the door, and looking
at my own watch by the candle outside,
told him the hour.

It is later than I thought,' he said, and
again lay silent, his face turned to the
Window. I sat down beside him, and took
his hand in mine. He let it lie there.
Strange,' he said again, 'one lives alone
and one dies alone ; and yet human fellowship
is sweet. I like to feel your hand in
mine, Frank.'

He was growing weaker. I could see
it by the way his head lay on the pillow,
and by the increasing difficulty with
which he swallowed the cordial I gave
him from time to time. I asked him
presently whether he had any wishes I
could fulfil.

Xo,' he said at first ; then  ' Bury me
here, of course,' he said ; ' one spot of
earth is like another, and there is no one
at home to mourn for me.'

Don't say that,' I said, * I ' I broke

down, and laying my head on the counterpane,
cried like a girl. It distressed
him.

Don't,' he said twice; and in a minute
I conquered the weakness. ' I have longed
for death,' he said, ' and now it has come.
Yes, I am glad to die. Something was
wrong between me and life ; I could have
made nothing of ifc. Death is best and
what comes after.'

i2

'You clo believe, Ambrose?' I cried.
The words were involuntary ; for though
the thought bad been in my mind since I
entered the room, I had not meant to
utter it. He looked at me sith eyes
whose kindness and affection I can never
forget.

'Good old Frank!' he said. 'If you
ever see Charlotte,' he went on, after a pause,
'tell her from me to go back to her parents.
I have written to them ; she will have no
difficulty. Tell her so from me.'

The room was going darker ; the moon
had set. I could not make out the changes
in his face any more. But he still kept it
turned towards the window. ' How bright
the stars are to-night,' he said once. ' Surely
we shall know.' And once again:
Soon I shall know.' Then a long silence.

About midnight the doctor had come in,
had laid his hand on his patient's pulse,
and gone without a word, I brought the

lio'ht back into the room in the darkest
hour before dawn ; but Ambrose took no
notice. About dawn he died.

An hour later I went through the front
door of the hotel, and out into the courtyard
to breathe the morning air. The night
had been a terrible one to me ; I did not,
until afterwards, know how terrible and
poignant. Xo, only in after-years I came
to understand what scales of self-sufficiency
had fallen from my eyes, and that, from
that day forward, I was a changed man. I
went out into the courtyard, looking up at
the morning sky, which had the pathos of
the light that first dawns after one whom
we love has died. The day would clear
into brightness later on ; but at that early
hour everything was grey and misty ; low
vapours veiled the hills, a long line of mist
marked the course of the little stream
through the valley. As I crossed the

courtyard on my way to the gates that
shut it in from the road, one of them was
pushed back, and a woman came towards
me. She wore a veil that concealed her
face ; but, seeing me, she started, and by a
sudden impulse, I suppose, threw it back.
Then I saw who she was.
Charlotte !' I said.

The blood rushed to her face, then forsook
it. It was a lovely face still, though
strangely altered since I had seen it last.
She stared at me uncertainly for a moment.


I didn't expect to meet you, sir,' she
said at last. ' I came to ask after Mr.
Malett. Can you tell me how he is ?'
He is dead,' I answered.
She gave a cry, and dropped down on a
bench by which we were standing. For a
long time she did not say a word, nor
after that cry utter a sound. She sat with
her hands clasped round her knees, gazing

fixedly before her. A look of indescribable
dreariness, rather than of grief,
gradually overspread ber face. As for me,
who shall say what emotions I felt ? I
had once loved the girl  yes, I had loved
her ; and up in yonder room lay the man
whose death she had caused.

At last she spoke. ' I wanted to see Mr.
Malett again,' she said, without looking up.
I followed them ; they didn't know it.
Can't I see him now?'

She rose as she spoke ; but before I
could answer, dropped on to the seat
again.

No, I couldn't,' she said. ' I never saw
anyone dead yet. I couldn't go.'

'Charlotte,' I said, 'Mr. Malett left a
message for you. He bade me entreat you to
go back to your parents. He had '\\Titten to
them, he said. You will have no difficulty
with them.'

Again she sat silent, gazing before her.

'Mr. Malett said the same to me,' she
said at last. ' Of course he couldn't understand.
It's not only father and mother,
it's  no, I shall never go home again 
never !'

She rose as she spoke, pulling down her
veil, and drawing her cloak tightly round
her against the chill morning air. I made
one more effort, though what it cost me, I
could not say. It was a moment surely
for angels' tongues to plead ; and on my
tongue the words seemed to weigh like lead.
Charlotte,' I said, 'surely Mr. Malett's

wish '

Don't !' she said, very sharply, turning
from me.

Promise me, at least,' I said, laying a
detaining hand on her shoulder, ' that for
his sake, as for your own, your life shall
henceforward be different.'

She turned, and seizing my hand, without
looking at me, wrung it.

Good-bye, Mr. Merrier,' she said ;
and turning from me once more, hurried
to the gate. Outside, for one moment, she
paused ; her back was towards me, but I
saw her shoulders move as with a sob.
The next moment she had disappeared in
the mist.

Whither did she go ? Alas, I have never
known. But visiting in after years Ambrose
Malett's grave, I found laid on it a
fresh wreath of immortelles. A stranger
had passed and left it there, I was told.

Through the Stone

Forthwith slid warmth like spring through sapling stems,
And lo, the eyelid stirred, beneath had grown
The tremulous light of life  '

William Bell Scott.

CHAPTER I.

I Never had but one goddaughter,' said
Dr. Somers, ' and lie was something out
of the common, I can tell you. No, a
dozen ordinary goddaughter could not
have caused me the trouble and anxiety I
went through at one time on her account.
Yes, yes, I can assure you that she Alas
something out of the common altogether.'
He leaned back in his chair as he spoke,
slowly stirring a cup of coffee that his
niece had just poured out and given him.
I had been dining with Dr. Somers, an old

college friend of whom I had lost sight
for many years He was an erect,
rather stout man, of middle height, with
black eyebrows and white hair, a shrewd
and humorous glance, firm-set lips, brisk
movements, and a neat clerical attire of
somewhat old-fashioned cut. A scholar
and a man of the world, he was nevertheless
a Church of England parson of the old
type to the backbone. A great part of his
life had been spent in going from one place
to another. In his youth a love of movement,
of adventure, perhaps, had led him
to accept a military chaplaincy in preference
to a family living ; and when ill-health
compelled him for some years to
resign his clerical duties, he employed his
time in travelling in Greece and Italy. He
never married, and at upwards of sixty
years of age, drifted into a leisurely and
learned seclusion as rector of a small pans
near the cathedral town of B , with

a Widowed niece to live with him ; a
charming and cultivated woman, who together
nth my old friend, made his house
one of the most agreeable to be found in

B or its neighbourhood. I had been

dining with him in company nth two or
three other guests on the evening when
the above remark was make. Some ladies
were of the party ; their curiosity was
aroused ; and at the request of one of them
Dr. Somers related the following history.

 I never had but one goddaughter,'
he said, ' her name was Elisabeth St. Just.
Her mother was a Swede, a woman of good
family and of great beauty as I have been
given to understand ; I never saw her.
Her father I never saw either till Within a
week of his death, when we encountered
each other at a remote hill station in India.
He was in the army, a man who had already
made his mark, and promised to doa

good deal in the future. When I first
met hin, however, he was out of his mind
nearly with trouble and grief; his little
girl was a month old, and his A\ife had
been dead a week. Though I had never
happened to meet him before  he was a
much younger man than myself  I had
been well acquainted nth his family in
England ; and under the circumstances, I
had no hesitation in making myself known
to him and offering any service that lay
within my power. He recollected my
name, and asked me to be godfather to the
infant ; she was to be christened the next
day and sent off at once to Europe under
the care of an officer's wife who was taking
her own child to England. I consented ;
the child was baptised; and three days
later the father was dead also, dead of the
cholera which broke out suddenly in the
station, and to which his distress of mind
no doubt predisposed him.

From that day I never saw my goddaughter
again till she was twenty-one
years of age. I heard of her from time to
time ; I knew that she had been in the first
instance placed in the charge of her father's
mother, Lady Margaret St. Just, with whom
she lived until she was seven or eight years
old, that she had then for some reason been
transferred to the care of her mother's relations
in Sweden, and that she passed the
next twelve years of her life nth them at
Stockholm and elsewhere. At the time
however  some ten years ago now  that I
renewed my acquaintance with her, she
was once more living with her English
grandmother, Lady Margaret St. Just. I
had been spending the winter in Italy, and
was actually at Naples, when I heard that
Lady Margaret and her granddaughter
were established for some weeks in Florence.
It was the first time that Elisabeth had
been within my reach, so to speak ; and

VOL. n. K

though she was now past the age over
wHcli a godfather s duties are supposed to
extend, conscience began to reproach me a
little for the perfunctory way in which
those duties had been performed. The
girl might have been brought up a heathen
for anything I knew to the contrary ;
though I had, in fact, taken care to endow
her With a handsome prayer-book and bible,
and so on, by way of reminding her that she
was a Christian. It is true that one cannot
very well hear a child say its Catechism
when one is on the opposite side of the
globe ; and her temporal welfare was her
guardians' affair, not mine. Nevertheless,
I felt that when a girl has a parson for a
godfather, she has a right to expect, at the
very least, a little extra good advice, and
that the expectation should not be disappointed.
Finally, I made up my mind
to go to Florence, see what my goddaughter
was like, and so far as might be,

make up for the time that had been
lost.

There are few places I am more at
home in than Florence, or that I have
oftener visited and re-visited in the course of
my wanderings. I took care to secure beforehand
a small apartment I had the habit
of occupying in one of theLung'Arno hotels,
and immediately on my arrival I settled
myself in it, with the intention of staying
for a month or more. I arrived on a certain
spring evening towards the middle of
April ; and in the course of the following
morning 1 went to the Uffizi, the place I
usually visit first on a return to Florence.
It holds to my mind a sort of quintessence
of the best and most classical Florentine
tradition ; and nowhere else can I revive
nth such certainty the freshness of those
first impressions that give the liveliest
charm, the most endearing memories to
every spot one visits. I spent an hour or

k2

more anion i:: the clradnos and enora[nors,
then turned into the Tribune and the adjoining
rooms to take a glance at certain
old favourites before leaving the gallery. I
had made my way into the furthest room
of the Tuscan school, and was looking at
the changing Madonna and child by
Filippo Lippi, which is one of its chief
attractions, when my attention was caught
by a copy standing on an easel in front of
the picture. Naturally I avoid looking at
copies, as a rule ; for few trades can be
worse executed than that of the picture-copying
in the Florentine galleries. Here,
however, as I at once perceived, was a copy
altogether different from the usual crude-coloured
daub. The artist had not only
made an exact fac-simile in dradng and
colour of the picture before him, a sufficiently
rare accomplishment in itself, but he
had caught the very spirit and sentiment
of the slender Madonna and child, and

attendant boy-angels. It was less a copy
than a reproduction. The work seemed
finished and the painter was absent, so
that I could contemplate it at my leisure ;
but the painting tools still lay about, and
in a minute a young man came up to the
picture, and as I moved on one side, took
up a brush and stood gazing alternately
at the original and at the copy, in a way
that assured me that I had the artist in
person before me. I turned my attention
from his work to himself

He was an Italian, and an extraordinarily
handsome young man, one of those
youths who, gathering in themselves some
of the best characteristics of their race, become
typical of the beauty of a whole
nation. His complexion was pale and
clear, his features almost faultless, the
nose slightly aquiline, the mouth and chin
of classical beauty ; his hair was black and
wavy, and the heavy lidded-eyes which he

presently turned on me, were not only
admirable in shape, but startling by their
light and flash and depth of colour. He
wore an old painting coat, and was dressed
otherwise rather shabbily ; neither in costume
nor in manner did he betray the
slightest shade of vanity or of self consciousness.
When his eyes met mine, I
addressed him.

If the admiration of a stranger may be
allowed,' I said, ' you will perhaps permit
me to express mine for this copy that you
have just finished. I never saw anything
of the kind more perfectly executed.'

He smiled With the charming Italian
smile that lights up the plainest and most
sullen face to beauty.

Oh,' he said, ' a copy is no great
matter. One must be a fool to fail in
painting what is set there, before one's
eyes. A correct eye and a sure hand are
all that is needed.'

Pardon me,' I said, ' what one niioht
call a sympathetic admiration is needed
also to reproduce the work of a great
master; and to judge from the copies one
generally sees, all these requisites are entirely
wanting.'

He shrugged his shoulders good-humoured.
' It may be so,' he said, ' at
any rate I am delighted that my work,
such as it is, should have met with your
approbation.'

He began putting up his brushes preparatory
to leaving. It so happened that
one of the things I had proposed to do in
Florence was to find, if such could be
found, a good copy of a good picture.
Past experience had not taught me to be
sanguine in the matter ; but here apparently
might be my man. I felt some delicacy,
however, in asking him whether his picture
were for sale, and was considering how I
might introduce the question when he

himself relieved me from my difficulty.

I shall begin to believe in my good
luck,' lie said, smiling again, as lie lifted
the picture from the easel, ' only yesterday
a lady passing through the gallery, saw
this copy and bought it of me at once.
Now it has found a second admirer.'

Only I am too late,' I said.  I could
have wished to arrive the day before
instead of the day after your purchaser.
You have not, T suppose, a second copy?'

He shook his head. ' Not of this,' he
answered, ' I never copy a picture twice if I
can help it. I can't do it decently the
second time ; it bores me to death. But if
you cared to come with me to my studio
I have copies there of other pictures, and
you might find something to suit you.
It's close by here in the Corso.'

I consented willingly ; the young fellow
packed up his painting gear, and we started
together. It was not ten minutes' walk to

his place, and yet in that time he had
managed to tell me a good deal of his
history. There was a sort of expansive
simplicity and openness in his manner and
conversation that took my fancy greatly.
He was a Neapolitan by birth, I learnt, and
his name was Dino Morelli. He had been
educated for a priest, but as the final
moment approached had discovered two
or three things which appeared to him,
and not without reason, to interfere with
such a vocation : first, that he was a
thorough sceptic, and 'had no beliefs to
speak of but a belief in humanity and
in Italia Irredenta : secondly, that he cared
for no occupation but that of painting  a
fact he was disposed to regret, since
Italy and the Italians, he considered,
had something better to think of in these
days than art ; but so it was : thirdly, that
there was nothing in a priest's life in general
or in particular that he did not cordially

detest. Under these circumstances he had
left his home where such sentiments would
have met with little sympathy, and betaken
himself to Florence. He had been there
nearly a year, and had so far achieved no
particular success ; on the other hand, he
occasionally sold something to a foreigner,
and having enough to Hve on, felt encouraged
to persevere. He was still talking as
we ascended flight after flight of stairs in a
lofty house in the old Corso, and finally
paused before a door on the topmost
landing.

I haven't much of a place,' he said,
putting his key into the lock, ' but it's
cheap, and there's a north light, and I like
the look-out, though it's not the best in the
world for painting. I shall have to change
by-and-by, I suppose.'

He opened the door, and I found myself
in a large, rather bare apartment with a
bed in one corner, two or three easels, and

a number of canvases leaning against the
wall. Some pots of carnations in the mn-chow
were the only attempt at decoration ;
but immediately beyond, separated from
us only by some tiled roofs, rose the vast
marble wall of the Duomo, its austere lines
of dusky green and mellowed white tilling
and satisfying the eye with a sense of
antique dignity and beauty such as no
other background in Florence could have
afforded. I envied the young fellow his
apartment, and told him so. you are
back in the Middle Ages here,' I said.

'Oh, I don't care about the Middle
Ages,' he answered, A\ith a laugh, 'but
the room is quiet, and I like the look-out
on the Duomo, whenever it was built.
That great wall of marble reflects the sunlight
though, and interferes, I think, nth
my painting when I work at home. I
shall have to change my quarters, I believe.'

He set up half-a-dozen canvases on the

easels as lie spoke, and while I looked at
them, he took oiF his painting-coat, and
retiring to a corner of the room, began to
perform a brief toilette. ' Excuse my
want of ceremony,' he said, coming back
to me. thrusting his arms into another
coat, 'but I have to go out again
almost immediately, and have no time to
lose. Do you see anything there that you
fancy ?'

The copies  they were all copies that
he had shown me  were admirable. I
presently selected one, which he put aside,
saying he would go A\ith me the following
day to a peacemaker's to select a frame.

Have you no original work ?' I
inquired, looking round.

Not much,' he said. ' I hope, of
course, to paint my own pictures some
day, but so far I've had neither time nor
money to study a great deal. I make
sketches of one thing and another, and

leave them to be worked out in the future.'
He took up some smaller canvases on
which rough sketches were clashed in with
oil-colours, and placed them one by one
before me. They showed some talent and
power, if no great invention or originality
of treatment. One or two  and these
were the least pleasing  were in the crude
realistic style which certain Italian artists
affect in painting subjects of the present
day ; others in manner and composition
showed unmistakable signs of the influence
copying from the old masters had had
upon him.

'You are like some of our English
painters,' I said to him at last, 'and have
let Botticelli take hold of you a good deal,
I see. That sort of thing is in the air,
no doubt. These sketches are allegorical, I
presume ? May I ask what they represent T
The young Italian looked over my
shoulder. 'Those?' he said. 'Oh, those

are two of a series I proposed painting to
illustrate the passions. They are intended
to represent Love and Revenge.'

I considered the sketches again with
some attention. The central figure in each,
against a background of trees, a loggia, a
Renaissance frieze and so on, was a woman
in a dress of fantastic cut, which in
its particular arrangement of clinging folds
and girdled draperies and puffing, recalled,
as I had said, the art of Botticelli.
One, amidst an appropriate surrounding of
flowers and birds and winged loves, held a
fillet raised to the level of the eyes, as
though in the act of bandaging or un-managing
them ; the other had nth the
left hand just removed a mask, whilst the
right was hidden in her bosom. But in
either sketch the woman's face was left a
blank.

How is this ?' I said. ' Neither Love
nor Revenge has presented itself to

you yet apparently, or why is your central
figure left unfinished ?'

Oh, that is nothing,' he answered.
I did those some time ago. I think of
reprinting the subjects in modern dress,
and then I shall put in the faces. Love
and revenge belong to this age as much as
to any other.'

Ah, you think so, do you T I said,
looking at his handsome, brilliant young
face, which seemed as though it might undoubtedly
have a good deal to do With
love.

At any rate, I hope so,' he answered,
they are the only two passions worth
living for.'

He took up a piece of red chalk, and
began rapidly sketching in the face of the
figure he called Love ; but the next instant
he effaced it.

They are the only two passions,' he
said again, removing the sketches from the

easel and replacing tlieni with their face to
the wall, ' that I can conceive of as
thoroughly satisfying a man. Either of
them alone would be worth lidng for.'

So,' I cried,  here is a young fellow
who tells me that he cares for nothing, and
believes in nothing but modern life and
young Italy, sith steam and commerce
and the rest of it ; and yet here he is
uttering sentiments that might have come
straight out of an old melodrama or one of
our Mrs. Radcliffe's romances.'

Oh,' he said, laughing, and with a
charming air of easy indifference,  we are
all young Italy of course, but there is some
of the old leaven left in us yet, I fancy.'

He looked at his Avatch as he spoke.
I perceived he was in haste to be gone,
though courtesy withheld him from saying
so ; and concluding that he had some engagement,
I bade him farewell, appointing
an hour when we might meet the following

day at a peacemaker's whose address
he gave me.

I mil accompany you downstairs,' he
said, ' perhaps our roads lie in the same
direction. I am going towards the Via
Tornabuoni.'

And I to my hotel on the Lung'
Arno,' I answered, ' we can go part of the
way together.'

He assented, and allowing my companion
to lead the way I accompanied him
along the narrow pavement of the Corso,
through the old market, to the corner
of the Via Tornabuoni by the Strozzi
Palace. Here he paused for a moment,
contemplating nth attention the fragrant
and many-hued piles of flowers that bloomed
along the old stone slab and against
the walls of the palace. Presently he selected
a bunch of pansies intense in colour, and
peculiar through their size and singular
markings; and paying his soldi, he pro-vol.

II. L

reeled with them in his hand down the
Via Tornabuoni and along the Arno. I
still accompanied him, my hotel lying
somewhat lower down the river, and we
walked on side by side, talking as though
we were old friends, rather than the acquaintance
of an hour. The young fellow's
open easy manner had a particular
attraction for me ; and the entire absence
of conceit or self-consciousness in a lad so
handsome that he mio;ht have been forgiven
both, won my heart. We walked on
past the mosaic and jewellers' shops on
the quay below the Santa Trinity ; but
presently by the Ponte alia Carrara he
paused, just at the point where the little
piazza opening on to the bridge affords a
lounging-place for idlers every fine afternoon
throughout the winter and spring.
He was discoursing to me with much animation
on certain old frescoes that had
lately been rescued from whitewash and

which he hoped to get a commission
to copy; and without reflecting on the
matter, when he stopped, I stopped
also. A number of people were lingering
as usual about the corner where the
parapet of the bridge makes an angle
with the parapet dividing the river and
the road ; there was a good deal of noise
going on about us ; carriages passing,
vendors of beans and cakes shouting their
wares on one side and the other, orange
barrows with their intermittent cry for
custom not half-a-dozen yards off. I had
to strain my attention to catch the young
Italian's words, and was beginning to wonder
why he had elected to stand at this noisy
corner, when he broke off abruptly, turning
his head in the direction of the Casting.

In a moment I saw that his eyes
were fixed on a carriage that was approaching,
driven rather slowly, and
occupied by two ladies ; one, apparently

l2

old and feeble, was leaning back, wrapped
in furs though the day was mild and sunny,
her face almost hidden by the veils and
laces of her bonnet ; the other, a young
girl, sat erect, her hands folded before her
in her lap, her face shaded by a wide
black hat that coming low on her forehead
concealed the upper part of her countenance,
but left visible a delicately moulded
cheek and chin and a shining mass of very
pale straw-coloured hair. As the carriage
drew near the spot where we were standing,
young Morelli stepped forward ; and as it
passed, nth a dexterous movement that
seemed to argue some previous practice, he
threw the bunch of pansies he had
bought but now into the young girl's lap,
so that they alighted almost within her
hands. The carriage passed on, and the
flowers lay as they had been thrown :
neither sign nor movement, that I could
perceive, recognized their presence either for

rejection or acceptance ; they might have
been the votive offering to a marble
goddess. It passed, and the young fellow's
flaming eyes followed it till it was out of
sight. Then he turned to me, still standing
at his elbow, and looked at me as though
unconscious of my presence.

Those are friends of yours  ' I began,
-with a certain indiscretion, perhaps : but
he was staring so oddly, that I wanted to
recall him to his senses.

I beg your pardon  no, I never spoke
to them in my life,' he said, rather
vaguely, ' I hardly even know their
name.' Then waking up, he raised his hat
courteously. ' I beg your pardon,' he said
again, with his frequent smile, ' I am
detaining you here Ashen you were on your
way to your hotel. Till tomorrow then 
we meet at the peacemaker's.'

He strode off, and some comments from
the idlers standing about instructed me

that this was not the first time he had been
seen on the same spot bent on the same
errand. I, for my part, pursued my way
to my hotel, filled nth no slight amazement
at the audacity of a youth in fringing
flowers to a lady unknown to him on
a road so public as the Lung' Arno. But
while I could not approve, I own that I
was interested and entertained. I have a
fancy for adventures, even a taste for
romance ; and the prosaic attitude in which
young people for the most part confront
life in these days, always strikes me as
singularly unattractive. This young
fellow struck me as an odd mixture too, of
the old-world traditions of Italian life in
which my generation still believed in its
youth, and the positive and matter-of-fact
spirit that animates young Italy. Yes, he
entertained me  and I little dreamed what
sort of entertainment he was to afibrd me
before I had done with him.

CHAPTER 11.

My hotel lay at no great distance from that
in which Lady Margaret St. Just and her
granddaughter were staying ; and about an
hour after I had parted with young Morelli,
I was shown into the private sitting-room
of the apartment they occupied on the first
floor. It had a south aspect and looked
out upon the Arno ; but I found on entering
that the green outside blinds were
closed, shutting out the afternoon sun
and creating a twilight for the old lady
who sat knitting by a small wood-fires
and who held out a welcoming hand as
I followed the servant and my card into
the room.

When I was a lad of seventeen and Lady-margaret
some ten years older, I had worshipped
her with that ardent adoration which
most boys offer at least once in their life to
a woman older than themselves. That she
was already married made no difference
to me at all. I compared myself, I remember,
to Petrarch, and imagining the
idea to be original, never dreamed that
my sentiments could change. Nor in one
sense did they change ; for as I believed
then, so I continued to the last day of her
life to believe, that there never moved on
earth a sweeter and purer-minded lady, nor
one more worthy of the worship of old
and young than Lady Margaret St. Just.
I saw much of her in after years, and
found her always the same, too simple
ever to grow worldly, too trusting ever to
grow bitter; not clever in the ordinary
sense of the word, but developing and
ripening in gentle wisdom through years

of experience and trouble. Some weaknesses
she had: an ineradicable faith in
the goodness and good intentions of those
about her, which was of necessity imposed
upon from time to time ; a belief in birth
and caste, natural to the station in which
she was born and the surroundings among
which she grew up ; but a belief that
inevitably narrowed her conception of
life and its relations. The daughter
of an old Scotch family, she believed,
I think, that no rank, no station that the
world presents could surpass, or perhaps
even equal her own. She accepted the
dignity of her condition humbly, as bestowed
by the grace of God; she never
spoke of it, there was not one grain of
arrogance in her nature ; but not the less
she regarded it as a special gift from
heaven, to be cherished as such by herself
and all belonging to her, one which
could not be neglected or io-noted without

sin. The type was a common one formerly,
and has by no means yet vanished
from a democratic world. It never showed
itself informed nth more sweetness and
grace, with more consideration for others,
than in my old friend. Lady Margaret St.
Just.

During my early manhood, I saw, as
I have said, a good deal of her; later,
when I wandered out into the world, we
met at longer and longer intervals ; now,
through one cause and another, it was
nearly twenty years since we had seen
each other. At our age, however, twenty
years roll themselves up into a very
small space ; and except for the change
in each of us, I could have imagined
that not a quarter of that time had
elapsed since our last meeting. She was
very much changed. She had been one
of those women who retain a look of youth
far into middle life, and when I last saw

her still kept much of the charm and grace
of her younger years, in her slender erect
figure, in a still unfaded touch of bloom
on her cheeks, in the brightness of
her fair hair. Now I found quite an
old woman ; she had suffered greatly from
illness and family sorrow ; her eyesight,
too, was failing very much, and together
nth her frail health compelled her to lead
an invalid life of almost complete inaction.
She was older now at seventy-two than
many women ten years her senior; but
nothing could change the intrinsic sweetness
of her face, or the impression of delicate
fairness that had always characterized
her, the impression given by a guileless
heart.

She held out a welcoming hand as I
entered. ' This is an unexpected pleasure,
Dr. Somers,' she said, ' and a very great one.
To see an old friend again at my age is to
reclaim a fragment out of the past. Butin

our case the past is too much past. We
must manage better for the future, and
agree to meet somewhat often er than e very-twenty
years or so.'

She smiled as she spoke. 'Sit down,'
she said, ' and give an old woman the
pleasure of hearing all your adventures in
all this long time. You where always fond
of adventures, you know ; you might have
been a bishop  nay, an archbishop otherwise
by this time. But perhaps you prefer
to be as you are ; and so do I. I am too
old to care for change, and would rather
that my friends should remain as nearly as
possible what I have always known them.'

I sat down as she desired, and we fell
into a long conversation, presently passing
from what she was pleased to call
my adventures, which indeed made no
great figure in a narrative  it would have
given me small pleasure that they should
to her own life and its sorrows. They

had been such as naturally fall upon the
member of a large family as life advances,,
and have no place in this story of my goddaughter.


And now, after all my troubles,' Lady
Margaret concluded, sone great blessing
has come to brighten my old age. You
know, of course. Dr. Somers, that my
granddaughter has come back to live with
me ?'

I do indeed,' I answered, 'your granddaughter
and my goddaughter. Lady
Margaret. Tell me what she is like. I
take a very great interest in her, though I
have been rather remiss, I fear, in the
fulfilment of my special duties. I have
never seen her, you know, since she was a
month old.'

Ah, that is what I have sometimes felt
myself,' said Lady Margaret, sighing, ' that
I ought to have done more, I mean, for
my oily grandchild. She had grown from

a child into a woman during the years
that we were parted. But what could I
do, Dr. Somers ? I had other and imperative
duties that demanded my attention,
and would have prevented my giving her
all the care she required ; and then her
mother s relations had undoubtedly a claim
upon her. But it was a great trouble tome
to be obliged to give her up and let
her be educated out of England.'

But now you have her back again,' I
said, 'she is, I trust, all that you could
desire.'

Indeed she is,' said Lady Margaret,
warmly, ' I could never tell you all her
goodness to me, how she drives with me,
and reads to me, and sits with me hour
after hour in this dull room ; how sweet
and unruffled her temper is in all the
contretemps that must arise in travelling
with an infirm old woman like
myself. Yes, indeed ; it is a joy to me

every morning when I wake to think
my child has come back to me, and I
thank God for it every night. I cannot
see her face very plainly  my sight has
failed me very much this last year or two,
Dr. Somers  but I see enough to show
me that she is like all our family. I am
told that she also resembles her mother
who was a very beautiful young creature,
though she had a strange reserved temper,
and I never got to know her thoroughly.
But though my sight is too dim for me to
judge of shades of likeness, I should
imagine Elisabeth to be less beautiful than
her mother.'

And in other matters, ' I inquired,
does she resemble her?'

Lady Margaret hesitated a little.

Perhaps,' she said. ' Yes, there is
something, I sometimes fancy, a little
strange and reserved about Elisabeth, that
reminds me of her mother ; but it may be

only fancy. Site has been nth me so
short a time, I cannot expect her to care
for me yet, as she might have done had we
been more together; and I love her so
dearly, that I feel all that will come right
eventually. It is a dull life too, for a
young girl, for I can see very little society
just now ; and though she is quite sweet and
good about it, and never expresses any wish
for a change, I think it may perhaps
depress her a little and make her seem
more reserved and indifferent than she
would be otherwise. She is extremely
quiet, and employs a good part of her time
in working for the poor. Yet she strikes
me, from one or two things I have heard
her say, to have some singular notions concerning
life and its duties. That, however,
I attribute to the influence of two aunts,
her mother's sisters, with whom she has
lived at Stockholm during the last six
years, and who, as I have since learnt,

belong to some small and very exclusive
religious sect holding certain mystical,
liigh-ilo\Ti doctrines, which I don't suppose
I should understand, Dr. Somers, even
if I heard what they were. Had I known
that Elisabeth was exposed to this sort of
influence, I should have exerted myself
sooner, I think, to effect her return to
England. But her mother's family is in
the first society in Stockholm, and I never
doubted that all was well in that respect.'

Do you mean,' I said, 'that she holds
heterodox opinions ?'

Not at all, oh, not at all,' said Lady
Margaret shocked, ' she has the highest
sense of duty, the most earnest desire todo
what is right ; and she always goes to
our English church on Sunday. Oh, such
a thing is not to be imagined for a moment.
I stipulated you know, when she first went
to Sweden, that she should have an English
governess whom I myself selected, with

VOL. II. M

sound Episcopalian views, and no difficulty
was made about that. Still, Elisabeth
does say strange things occasionally. She
is romantic, I suppose ; all girls have a little
romance in them, and are none the worse
for it, I think.'

She ended with a smile. ' How I run
on about Elisabeth,' she said. ' This is
what it is to be a hen with one chicken
again at my age. I never made half so
much fuss about her father. And now.
Dr. Somers, if you would like to see your
goddaughter, I will ring and ask if she
has come in ; she went out for half-an-hour
vdih her maid, but she has returned
I expect, by this time. And then I shall
ask you to excuse me if I leave you ; for if
I do not get my usual nap before dinner, I
shall be fit for little this evening or tomorrow
either.'

She rang and enquired for Miss St.
Just, and presently 1 found myself alone

in the little salon, awaiting the appearance
of my goddaughter. Some few minutes
elapsed with no interruption but from the
entrance of a servant, who throwing back
the Venetian shutters, admitted a warm
glow of afternoon light into the room ; and
as I waited, I began to grieve over the
change in my old friend, her dimmed eyes,
her feeble gait, the slight tremble that
made itself heard in her voice from time to
time. Everything in her was changed but
her gentle and guileless soul. With all
my heart I hoped that Elisabeth was
worthy of the love and confidence so freely
given her. I had no cause for doubt ;
and yet, knowing the sweet liberality of
the nature that bestowed that love, I found
myself doubting.

I was still occupied with these thoughts,
when the door opened and my goddaughter
entered, advancing towards me with a
quiet step. She was rather above the

M 2

middle height, erect and slender, as it
befits young girls to be, pale and extremely
fair of complexion, with hair of almost
colourless gold fastened in a knot behind
her well-shaped head; her forehead was
wide, her lips rather full, the contour of
her face too thin for positive beauty, her eyes
blue-grey, with lashes and eyebrows dark
enough to produce by contrast an impression
of dazzling fairness instead of insipid
pallor. Her dress of some black woollen
material was rigid in fashion almost as a
nun's, being made apparently with the utmost
simplicity that custom allows. Without
being handsome, or absolutely beautiful,
my goddaughter was yet of striking
appearance, both through her extreme fairness
and through something strange in her
face that I at once noticed, but could not
immediately define. Presently I discovered
it to be a singular immobility of expression.
The trifling, almost imperceptible

changes that <nve charm and animation to
a countenance, the lifting of an eyebrow,
the fall of an eyelid, the slight play of the
lips, the momentary glance were wanting.
She looked straight before her with an air
of intense and absorbed seriousness ; in her
eyes was the far-oiF look of an enthusiast
or a dreamer. Her voice in speaking was
low, but unvarying as her countenance ;
she answered promptly, gently and intelligently
when addressed; it needed indeed
but a glance at her face to show that it
was no lack of intellect that made her
unresponsive in manner and appearance.
Either, I conjectured, she might be of a
nature too cold for impulse; or she might
be possessed by one of those gigantic
egotism that now and then render young
people altogether indifferent to the external
world except as it touches that point
in their personality that absorbs their own
attention. And yet her austere garb argued

to my inexperienced eyes, an indifference
to self, an absence of vanity inconsistent
mali my theory of an absorbing
self-consciousness. Plainly fashioned as I
have said, her dress was without ornament,
its blackness relieved only by a narrow
white line at her throat and wrists. I am
wrong ; fastened below her neck-frill, she
wore a vi\dd bunch of pansies ; and it was
nth a singular emotion that I recognised,
or thought I recognised in these, the same
pansies that I had seen bought some two
hours before at the corner of the Strozzi
Palace.

Yes, my goddaughter struck me as an
enigma; and an enigma that I deemed
it lay within my business to solve if
possible.

She responded by a faint smile to
my words of greeting, into which I threw
as much warmth and geniality as I could
muster ; and presently we fell to talking,,

a conversation in which the talk at first
was mostly on my side. I wanted to
gain some notion of her character, to
learn something of her tastes and her
ideas; and I began vdth such trial
inquiries as occurred to me concerning
her life in Florence, her amusements and
occupations. She had seen all the sights,
she said ; she had visited all the churches
and galleries. She did not go anywhere
now ; she did not care about pictures or
art of any kind ; she had gone because her
grandmother wished it.

And do you always do what your
grandmother ashes ?' I said.

I try to,' she answered gently, ' I think
it right.'

Well, I am glad to hear you say so,' I
said, ' *I am glad to hear you say so, m}
dear. It is not every young girl who
would profess as much, or at least act upto
it.'

She turned lier eyes on me for the first
time during our interview, then looked
away again at the endow. ' I mean, of
course,' she said, ' only if it should not
interfere with anything more important.'

I waived for a moment the question as
to what she considered more important
and went on With my examination, which
became more serious as wee proceeded. She
did not greatly care for books, she said;
occasionally she liked to read : some biographies
 rather vaguely  some history;
sometimes  more vaguely still  some poetry.
Not novels ; those she never read ;
they did not interest her.

Why not, my dear ?' I inquired,
most young people of your age love
novels. They try to read their own future
in them.'

I think life is very different from any
novel I ever looked into,' she said, ' that
is why I do not read them any more.'

And what is your idea of life ?' I said.

I have not lived yet she answered,
in her impassive tones ; ' but I think it must
be more sublime and beautiful than anything
that can be imagined.'

Her answer took me by surprise. This
then was what her grandmother meant by
saying that she was romantic. ' No, no,'
my poor child,' I murmured, ' you have
not lived yet.' Then aloud, ' You don't
care for art, and you care for only a few
books ; what then, to go on with our
catechism,  by-the-by, as your godfather,
I ought to have asked you before now,
I suppose, whether you know your Church
Catechism.'

She turned her serious gaze again on me
for a moment ' Of course I know it,' she
answered. ' I learnt it when I was a child ;
I have not forgotten it.'

And believe every word of it, I hope,
as my goddaughter should,' I said, ' no

independent views on the Church Catechism,
I trust.'

I believe it she answered, ' I have
always been taught to do so. But it
does not seem to me very important.'

Oh, oh,' I cried, ' here is an answer to
make to a godfather and a parson to boot.
The Church Catechism not important !
And why not, if I may inquire ?'

She hesitated a moment before answering.
' There is so much in life that
it has nothing to do with,' she said then.

Why, how is that ?' I said, ' I should
have thought it had everything to do with
life. It teaches you how to do your duty,
and to be a Christian ; what more can a
good girl like you want ? Come, I should
like really to know what your idea of life
is, that neither novels nor the Church
Catechism have anything to do with.'

She sat silent for a minute, her strange
eyes fixed as they had been during almost

the whole of our conversation on the space
of blue sky seen through the window. '
you ask?' she said coldly. Then without
waiting for an answer, ' I think,' she
said, ' life means a union of souls.'

Good,' I said, ' that is a very pretty
theory. What does it mean in practice,
my dear ?'

She did not seem to notice my rallying
tone. She looked down at her hands that
lay folded before her in her lap, and answered
slowly and deliberately.

I think,' she said, ' that for every
human soul there exists another soul in
the world fitted to respond to it in every
way ; that when that other soul is found,
then true life begins, because without it
each one is incomplete, and all one's capabilities
for goodness and passion and love
remain undeveloped. That is why I believe
life to be so sublime and beautiful ; it
is the result of the union of the highest

capabilities in every direction of two human
beings.'

Good,' I said again. ' And where
did you learn all this, my dear? For you
are quite right ; it is not in the Church
Catechism.'

I did not learn it at all,' she answered,
without moving ; ' there are things that
one knows without learning; and apart
from this, I cannot conceive how life should
have any meaning.'

And you yourself  ' I said, after a
pause. I hardly knew how to frame my
question. ' When life begins, as you term
it, for you,' I said, ' what do you expect
it to be ?'

A flame shot into her eyes, but it passed,
and she spoke as impassively as before.
Nothing can be so beautiful as life,' she
answered ; ' I said so just now.'

- * And this other soul  ' I said, and
leased again. ' You expect to find it ?'

Perhaps,' she said, rising, as though
to end the interview. I rose also, not
sorry to bring the conversation to a close ;
it embarrassed me, I own. Yes, old man
though I was, and impassive as Elisabeth
showed herself, I found in all this talk about
the union of souls and the sublime in life
something embarrassing as it was ridiculous.
And yet, as I thought of Lady Margaret, a
lively interest in this young girl who took
her 3oung life so seriously, a keen anxiety
for her future, which touched my old friend
so nearly, took possession of me.

'Well, well,' I said to her, taking up
my hat, and preparing to go, 'if life should
not turn out quite such a sublime matter
as you expect just now  on the whole, you
may take my word for it that it will not 
don't forget that you have an old godfather
who has been delighted to make your acquaintance
at last, and is anxious to do
what he can now in the way of friendship to

make up for lost time. And if you should
come across that kindred soul that you are
looking for, let me know, my dear, will you ?'

I held out my hand as I spoke ; her reluctant
fingers hardly touched mine.

I shall try to do what is right,' she
said. ' One ought always to do what is
right, at whatever sacrifice to oneself.'

Certainly, certainly,' I said, ' and that
is in the Catechism, at any rate. " Your
duty towards God and your duty towards
your neighbour,"  you mil find
it all there.'

She looked at me a moment with her
far-ofi*, serious gaze, then turned away her
head. What she thought of me I mil not
attempt to define with precision ; but probably
I should not be far wrong in believing
that she held me as something infinitely
below the large experience of her dreams,
and my words as the empty prating of one
who had missed communion nth the

sublime life. The conviction that such an
opinion is held at one's own expense, inevitably
impresses one disagreeably, whatever
calmness of reason and just estimate
of oneself may be brought to bear in opposition.
No, I was not altogether sorry to
leave my goddaughter and escape to the
frivolities of the outer world, to the common
sunshine and the happy influences of
the spring day ; to that saner sense of life,
its troubles and its joys, which an old man
of sixty-two may be allowed, perhaps, to
have won through his sixty-two years of
life and experience.

CHAPTER III.

On thinking over the interview with my
goddaughter, that evening, two principal
impressions, I found, had remained on my
mind ; the impression of a strange and not
altogether pleasing personality ; and the
impression left by the flowers she had worn
in front of her gown. They had appeared
to me, as I have said, identical with
those bought by my new acquaintance at
the corner of the Palazzo Strozzi ; and
though I might, of course, be occupying
myself nth a mere coincidence, was I to
believe that the glimpse I had had of a
young girl's fair cheek and pale gold coil
of hair as she passed me in the carriage,

was a coincidence also ? This struck meas
too large a demand upon one's belief in
the accidents of life. No  I had, in truth,
no doubt whatever that it was Elisabeth,
whom I had seen seated in the carriage at
Lady Margaret's side; and the fact impressed
me, I must own, as disagreeably as
possible. I have no objection to romance
I have said so before  to romance in
young men especially ; but discretion, to
my mind, is the more excellent gift in
woman. Was it possible that my goddaughter,
who in appearance was discretion
itself, should not be discreet ; that she
should be allowing, nay, accepting, however
distantly, the silent homage of a
youth whose name was probably unknown
to her ? I was reluctant, indeed,
to admit the idea. It is true, there was
something in Elisabeth that made her unlike
other young girls ; something that tome
personally was both baffling and repel-vol.

II. N

last. And yet lie seemed a right-minded
girl enough, good to her grandmother,
good to the poor ; and she was Lady Margaret's
granddaughter. Finally, I determined
to suspend any definite opinion concerning
her until we should be better
acquainted.

I was punctual to my appointment at
the frame-maker's the following day, and
had not waited five minutes when young
Morelli appeared with the picture under
his arm. He greeted me with the charming
expansiveness of manner that made me
feel as if I had known the young fellow for
years, and threw himself forthwith into
the business of ordering a frame. The
matter speedily settled, we left the shop
together ; I was returning to my hotel, and
I gave a ready consent to his proposal to
accompany me part of the way ; for I was,
in fact, not a little anxious to arrive at a

clearer understanding of yesterday's incident.
He made no allusion to it, however ;
but walked on, talking of a hundred indifferent
subjects with the same easy
fluency that he had shown the previous
day. I myself at last introduced the
matter nth some abruptness.

Are you in the habit,' I inquired, ' of
throwing flowers to young ladies everyday
as they drive home from the Casting?'

Only to one young lady,' he answered,
Avithout hesitation, ' naturally, one only
could inspire the sentiment that would
prompt me to do so.'

But I understood you to say yesterday,'
I answered  ' I believe I am not
mistaken  that this lady is quite unknown
to you.'

That is true in one sense ; I have
never yet spoken to her. But she is and
always must be for me, the one woman
in the world. I adore her.'

N 2

He spoke with a sort of serious passion
which impressed me. The young fellow
might be mad, but he was in earnest.

Has it never occurred to you,' I said,
in a moment, ' that you may compromise
this lady whom you adore by throng
flowers to her on a public promenade?
Naturally it must be remarked by those
standing about.'

It is impossible that it should compromise
her,' he said, with the same serious
intensity, ' since no one could fail to see
that it is a mark of respectful homage to
one unknown. She herself, I am persuaded,
understands it as such. In any case, it
is the only way in which I can at present
make my feelings known. I am personally
unacquainted with the young lady and her
family ; and I have no immediate means of
gaining an introduction, though I shall
discover a way before long. I know, of
course, that she is English. The first time

I saw her,' lie went on, more rapidly,
was about a fortnight ago. I was walking
down the Lung' Arno at sunset, when,
happening to look up, I saw her standing
at an open window on the first floor of the
hotel at which she is staying. She had a
book in her hand, but she was not reading.
She was leaning forward a little over the
iron railing that protects the Window in
front ; she wore a white gown ; the red
light from the west was on it, and on her
face and her hair. She looked  I could not
attempt to tell you how she looked ; I had
never dreamed of anyone so divine. Her
eyes were fixed on the sky ; but in a moment
she looked down, and I may have
been wrong, but I imagined she understood
something of what my eyes must have expressed.
Immediately afterwards she closed
the window and disappeared. I saw her
no more that evening ; but I watched the
hotel the next day and the next, and for

days after, till I learned to know her louis
of going out and in. She rarely leaves the
house except for her afternoon drive. I
have never yet spoken to her in words ;
but she knows now, as well as a silent
adoration can inform her, the worship I
offer her in my heart.'

All this my young Italian, dth a fluent
choice of language, but with the same
serious calm, as he walked along at my
side, swinging a little stick he held in his
hand backwards and forwards. He
appeared to find no indiscretion in confiding
his love-story to a man whom he had
seen for the first time the day before ; and
oddly enough this very absence of reserve
impressed me sith a sense of earnestness
and tenacity of purpose. He treated it allas
a matter of course, as an inseparable
part of his daily fife. Under other circumstances
I might have been touched or entertained
by the confidence ; the story from

the young lover's point of view might have
interested me. But I remembered where
I had last seen the flowers thrown by this
unknown and unthought-of youth ; and I
felt neither entertained nor touched.

My good fellow,' I said, ' you know
nothing, you affirm, of this young lady and
her family, but as it happens, I do ; and I
may as well tell you at once that you
might as well think of mining the moon
out of the sky, or an angel from among the
stars, as of winning her.'

If you know her, you can introduce
me,' he replied promptly, paying no heed
to the concluding words of my sentence.

No such thing,' I answered, ' it is the
last thing I should dream of doing. I
tell you, because your love-affair having
made no particular progress at present, it
is as well to warn !you in time that it
cannot possibly come to any good. Let
the thing be, my good boy. That young

lady belongs to a family who would think
more than one royal prince beneath her
notice '

Does she share their opinions ?' he
asked.

I was annoyed by his pertinacity, as I
might not have been had my own mind
been clear of doubt on that particular point.

I have never inquired,' I answered,
drily, ' she at least knows her duty.'

He stood still, and looked at me for a
moment with a sort of serious smile.

Heaven and earth,' he said, ' could
not move me in this matter ; so though I
am obliged by your advice, I must go my
own way. If an angel from the stars were
in truth in question, I should pursue the
same course. I suppose you mean that
this lady belongs to some great English
family. Excuse me, but what the devil
do I care for your great English families ?'

He raised his hat courteously, a brighter

smile illuminating his handsome young face,
and disappeared down a side street, whilst
I pursued my way alone to the hotel ; turning
over in my mind as I went, with no
small vexation of spirit, the various aspects
of a silly affair that threatened to prove
presently troublesome.

I was not destined, however, to reach
my inn without further adventure. I was
pursuing my way doom the Lung' Arno in
the direction of the Casting, when a
momentary block occurred where some
paving-stones had been taken up for repair,
and a carriage drew up close by the footway
where I was waiting until I could
cross the road. The carriage was an open
one, occupied by a lady only ; she happened
to turn her head in my direction, and I at
once recognized her as an old Florentine
acquaintance. Countess Zelowsky. The
recognition was mutual.

Dr. Somers !* she cried, holding out

both her hands over the carriage door.
what happy chance brings you to
Florence ? What a pleasure to see you
again  a pleasure, and yet a pain,' she
added, nth drawing one hand, and pressing
her handkerchief for a moment to her
eyes.

Countess Zelowsky was a Russian, a
woman of five or six-and-thirty, with a
fair faded face, light frizzled hair, and
the air and elegance of a woman of fashion.
On my uninitiated eyes, she made the impression
of being invariably dressed from
head to foot in black lace ; but an intimate
lady friend of mine assured me that many
other materials, such as silk and velvet
and satin went to the composition of the
Countess's elaborate toilettes ; adding, however,
with a sigh, that her black lace was
in fact of a description to make her fellow-women
grow pale with envy. This same
friend was obliging enough to furnish me

with not a few details of the Countess's
early history, that concerned me the less,
that my relations with Countess Zelowsky
were not of a kind to make her early history
of importance to me one way or the
other ; and that I had moreover, heard as
many histories of the same description
in Florence, as would, but for a certain
monotony of incident, furnish the novelist
of a Paris journal with material for a
year. When I first knew the Countess,
she had lately lost her son, an only child,
and was in great and genuine sorrow.
As is not unfrequently, the case, however,
the grief itself, its bewilderment and the
limitations it set upon her life, was almost
as great a trouble to her as the loss that
occasioned it, and she was seeking distraction
in whatever direction it might be
decorously found. Nothing for the moment
appeared to her more appropriate
and attractive than what may be termed

the dissipations of religion ; and a sermon
that I preached in the English church at
Florence was the cause of our first acquaintance.
She gained an introduction
to me through the friend I have already
mentioned, and affirming that certain
words I had uttered had made on her the
deepest impression, assured me that it
would be a consolation to her in her
affliction to consult with me on spiritual
matters. I had no difficulty in understanding
the sort of woman with whom I
had to deal ; but it was not for me to refuse
any consolation that it was in my
power to offer the poor lady in her affliction.
I went, therefore, from time to time to see
her.

She used to talk a great deal, chiefly
about herself and her soul ; her remarks on
these absorbing topics were not always very
edifying, and when the conversation took
a turn of which I disapproved I used to getup

and leave her. Still she always sent
for me again, until she presently began to
express vague longings to leave the Greek
Church of which she was a member, and
seek repose in the purer faith of the Church
of England. I told her roundly, that the
state of mental excitement in which she
then found herself, was not a fitting moment
to exchange the faith in which she
had been brought up for one of which she
knew practically nothing, that the great
sources of consolation to which I had endeavoured
to lead her, were common to
every branch of the Christian community,
and that I advised her to leave the consideration
of subtler points of doctrine, till
she could bring a calmer judgment to
bear on them. After this, her black-edged
notes pursued me less persistently ; and
happening one day to enter the Church
of San Marco where a Jesuit father of
well-known eloquence was delivering one

of a course of sermons, I perceived the
Countess Zelowsky seated among his
auditors in an attitude of the most rapt
attention. I was not surprised, therefore,
on going a few days later Avithout previous
appointment, to take leave of her on the
occasion of my departure from Florence,
to find her and the father closeted together,
and to feel my entrance an intrusion.
We parted excellent friends, however.
She was an extremely agreeable and
accomplished woman, and found her
place naturally in the first society in
Florence, giving herself certain airs of
exclusiveness indeed, which she threw
aside readily to meet the caprice of the moment.
She was in particular, an admirable
musician ; sometimes in the midst of one
of our conversations she would rise without
any warning, and going to the piano
sit dovn and play for ten or twenty minutes
together in a style that no professional

artist could excel ; then breaking off
suddenly as she began, return to her seat,
and resume the conversation. She wrote
poetry also of a semi-mystical, semi-religious
character in several languages, even in
her own ; and the reading and translation
of these poems, which melodiously expressed
the unfathomable despair with which
for various reasons her soul was devoured,
was another interlude that lightened our
talks. She spoke French of course, as
Russians speak it, and English as well as
you or I. I learnt, always through the
medium of my friend at Florence, that
after my departure she was on the point of
joining the Roman Catholic Church, so
much so, that her conversion was announced
in more than one Ultramontane
organ ; when happening to form a friendship
With an English Quaker lady, the
mystic and Quietist side of that particular
persuasion attracted her so strongly, that

she suddenly veered round, threw over the
Jesuit father, and devoted herself to the
silent worship. This was the last I had
heard of her, as my friend and kindly
correspondent shortly afterwards left
Florence.

Such a woman was the Countess Zelow-
sky who accosted me on that bright spring
day in the friendliest tones.

'What a pleasure to see you again,'
she said, holding my hand in hers. ' Have
you been long in Florence? And you
have not been to see me ? Only two days 
but in two days there are forty-eight hours ;
in forty-eight hours you might surely have
found ten minutes for an old friend, and

one who owes you so much, so much

But you are in Florence for some time,'
she went on, immediately ; ' we shall see
a great deal of each other. Let us begin
at once ; come into the carriage with me
now  but no, I forgot, I must not ask you

now; I am on my way unfortunately to
fulfil an engagement that cannot be
postponed. Come and see me in two
hours  but no, in two hours I have
an appointment; how unfortunate that
to-day, of all days, I should be overwhelmed
With engagements. Come and
see me this evening ; yes, that will be best.
We shall be quite alone, you know ; my

little cousin, Nathalie S , is staying

with me, but she mil not interfere viih us
in the least ; we will sit and talk of old
days. Come in about nine. Dr. Somers ; I
am expecting one or two people early, and
we are going to a ball later on ; but we
shall not leave much before twelve ; I shall
still have my evening to give to my old
friend.'

As a result of this somewhat confused
invitation, I found myself that evening
climbing the stairs to Countess Zelowsky's
apartment on the Lung' Arno Nuovo. It

VOL. II.

was on a high second-floor, an apartment
of small, but numerous rooms, about which
a scent of pastilles or incense or I know
not what occult and mysterious odour
always seemed to linger. It greeted me
now as I entered her well-remembered
little salon, mirrored, curtained and furnished
with tapestry arm-chairs. The
Countess was writing at a small table, but
she rose and came forward to receive me,
then sank into the corner of a sofa near
the fire ; she was in full dress, Tvith the
black lace arranged in draperies that reached
half way across the room, and diamonds
gleaming here and there. She introduced

me to her cousin, Countess Nathalie S ,

a charming, blooming, round-faced little
girl of seventeen or so, in a white ball-dress,
and "smith so simple and honest an
expression that I felt sorry she should be left
exposed to the irregular influences of her
sentimental relative. A tea-table with a

samovar stood in one corner of the room
to wMcli Countess Nathalie at once retreated,
to pour out cups of tea that were
brought to the Countess and myself by a
youth who was also in the room when I
entered, and who had been briefly named
by my hostess as 'Another cousin of mine
Sergius Zelowsky.' He was a brown-faced
lad with dark moustache and eyes,
and presently he retired nth Countess
Nathalie into an adjoining room where the
piano stood. The scrape of a violin was
heard with a pianoforte accompaniment,
then a few wrong notes, a pause, a burst
of laughter, and so da capo. Evidently
the young people were amusing themselves
in an innocent, youthful fashion. Countess
Zelowsky glanced at the open door and
slightly shrugged her shoulders ; then looked
at me, and sighed.

Jeunesse, jeunesse,' she murmured,
what would you and I, Dr. Somers, give

o2

to be in the place of those young people at
this moment?'

Speaking for myself, Countess,' I answered,
 I cannot imagine wishing to
exchange my present position for any
other in the world. Age has its privileges
as well as youth  its privileges of friendship.'


She smiled. ' Sit down,' she said,
pointing to a seat opposite to her ; I had
been standing until now in front of the
fire. ' Tell me, my friend,' she said,
have you once thought of me since we
parted ?'

Can you ask such a question ?' I answered.
' I have thought of you frequently.
And then, you know, I have had news
of you.'

News of me ?' she said.

Yes ; and news that after the conversations
we formerly held together could
not but interest me deeply. I heard that

you were on the point of entering the
Roman Catholic Church.'

Ah, you heard that,' she muiTuured,
taking a bunch of violets from a glass
close by and smelling them. The room
was full of flowers ; the Countess, like all
Russians, was devoted to them.

Yes,' I said, ' and then that you
were about to join the Quaker community.'

Ah, for that, no,' she said, raising
herself nth energy, ' that was an idea
that never once entered my head. There
is a side of that peculiar sect that appealed
to me, I own ; a mystic, imaginative,
silent side. But to become a Quakeress  '

She smelt the violets again, then smiling,
handed them to me. ' It is true,'
she went on, in a moment, ' since parting
with you, my friend, I have been through
many experiences. I have had occasion to
reflect very deeply. A woman left alone
in the world must necessarily do so ; time,

sorrow, loneliness, approaching age, all
tend to reflection. And I have come
finally to the conclusion that all creeds are
one, that each contains all and nothing,
and that to emancipate oneself therefore
from all fixed and definite forms of belief,
is the only course left open to a rational
being. You agree, I am sure.'

Hardly,' I answered, ' if I understand
you rightly. I am a clergyman of
the Church of England, you know ; and
that, as you Avill not, I think, have forgotten,
holds a very well-defined form of
faith;

 True,' she said, ' and I ought not
perhaps to have claimed your sympathy on
that point. Nevertheless, it is the point
at which I myself finally arrived ; it satisfied
me, and yet, shall I confess it ? it left
a certain void, a blank. These great
questions had occupied me so long, that
when I decided to dismiss them, life

seemed to have suddenly lost its interest
for me.'

Your fellow-creatures  ' I suggested,
as she paused.

*My fellow-creatures do not interest
me,' she answered, coldly. ' I cannot
imagine why they should. My one or
two friends are inexpressibly dear to me ;
but the world and 1 have nothing in common,
and vulgar excitements, I need not
say, lie altogether outside my vision.
No ; I shall always look upon it as a
special providence, that just as the vast
blank of existence was making itself felt
in the perishing of all my old beliefs, a new
and unfathomable field of investigation
was opened to me. It was quite by chance
that I came upon a book treating of the
relations between the visible and the invisible
worlds and the possibility of communicating
with the unseen ; but since
reading it I have felt that no subject can

be of an interest so vital, so absorbing,
especially to one who '

She sighed and passed her handkerchief
across her eyes. ' Do you allude to spiritualism
?' I inquired.

'To what is called spiritualism, yes.
The name, like everything else in these
days, has been vulgarized, and an effort
made to treat the matter as one for mere
curiosity and diversion. But the pure
essence, the essential soul of the truth remains.
I think, Dr. Somers, I have never
heard you speak on the subject, and am
uncertain whether to claim you as a
fellow-believer or not.'

'Do I believe in spiritualism?' I said,
no, I most certainly do not.'

'Ah, that is an answer unworthy of
you,' she cried, 'without attempting to
define what you mean or what I mean by
spiritualism, you reply in that positive
tone affected by all sceptics in the matter.

But I. who spend the greater part of my
life now in investigating and verifying the
phenomena, do not despair of convincing
you in time of how strange a region lies
outside our ordinary life. My difficulty sofar
has been to find a medium sufficiently
en rapport A\dth myself to give me the full
communication I crave with the unseen ;
for my conviction is that the partial and
imperfect communications which are all
that have yet been achieved are due to
imperfect sympathy between the medium
and the inquirer. Could two souls be
found in perfect harmony, with no such
gross obstruction of imperfect sympathies,
I am conduced that the communications
between the spirit evoked and the earthly
inquirer would be practically limitless.
That is my theory, which I am bent on
proving ; and I believe I have found such
a medium.'

You have found one ?' I said. I

knew little enough about spiritualism, but
I had a strong impression that even from
her own point of view she was talking
nonsense. ' And what I inquired, ' has
been the result ?'

I have not yet had the opportunity of
thoroughly testing her,' she answered, ' I
have met her twice only at the house of a
friend; and there, although she proved
that she possessed the ordinary mesmeric
power in no ordinary degree, the question
of communication with the unseen world
was not brought prominently forward.
But I have a conviction that she is the
person of whom I am in search  I am expecting
her to-night, when I hope your
eyes, my unbelieving friend, may be opened
by some very singular experiences.'

*What!' I cried, starting up, 'do you
mean that you have inveigled me here to
assist at a table-rapping seance f No, no.
Countess ; a pretty sort of character I

should get if it became known that I
countenanced any such proceedings. Besides,
I entirely disapprove of them.
Neither angels nor the devil take part in
them so far as I am aware ; but a good
many neutrals, if I may use the expression,
such as nerves and hysterics and credulity
and foolishness, and what people call innocent
fraud, all of which play mankind almost
as many bad tricks as the devil
himself

How prejudiced you are,' said the
Countess, smiling ; ' Who believes in the
devil in these days ? And as for rapping,
that is the most elementary as it is the
most imperfect of the modes of communication.
Ah, you must not desert me, dear
doctor ; I should think I had offended you 
if that were possible. Would it be possible ?
Nathalie,' she continued, addressing the
young girl who at that moment appeared
in the curtained doorway between the two

rooms, ' give me another cup of tea, my
child. I live upon tea, Dr. Somers.'

That is very bad for you,' I answered,
and might have said more ; but my attention
at that moment was diverted. A
servant had brought in another lamp, and
placed it where its light fell on a picture I
had not previously noticed, and which it
caused me some surprise to see here now.
It stood by itself on a small table by the
fireplace, propped against the wall ; and it
was, unless I was much mistaken, the
identical copy of the Filippo Lippi that I
had seen receiving its finishing touches in
the Uffizi the previous day. I turned to
the Countess.

You have there a very admirable
copy,' I said, ' and one that I believe I
have seen before. Is it not by a young
artist, named Dino Morelli ?'

Ah, you know him,' said the Countess.
 Yes, it is an admirable copy, as you say,

and it lias only to-day come into my
possession. I consider him to be a young
man of extraordinary talent, whom it is
my intention to introduce and bring forward.
He interests me in every way. I
had a long conversation with him to-day ;
he was brought up to be a priest, he told
me, but he felt he had no real vocation,
and made himself an artist instead. I
chink he felt how much I sympathised
with his difficulties  his manner, at least,
led me to imagine as much ; he has a very
charming manner for a young man of his
position in life. I expect him this evening.
He took an interest I could hardly
have looked for in an Italian  you know,
dear doctor, how despairingly unimaginative
and matter-of-fact Italians are  in
my spiritualist theories, and when I spoke
to him of my new medium he almost
beoo;ed to be invited to meet her; so I
told him he might come. In fact, I shall

be glad of his presence. A very curious
branch of the subject is the influence of
different nationalities in the other world ; I
have a theory upon it  I have thought so
deeply and exclusively on all these matters
lately  and it is one of the points I am
most anxious to elucidate.'

I perceived that my beautiful young
Italian, with his luminous eyes and air
of romance, had made a deep impression
upon the impressionable Countess ; and
I own that my interest in the denouement
of the evening's entertainment, in the
artist, the medium, and the Countess's
theories, quite overcame any scruples I
might feel as to countenancing a spiritualist
seance by my presence. I resolved to see
it to the end; not the less so that the
countess' guests now beginning to arrive,
our tete-astute conversation was brought to
a close. The room was so small that it
seemed almost full when from fifteen to

twenty people were assembled ; some half-dozen
or so of men, of all ages and apparently
of all nationalities ; as many women,
Russians for the most part, young, pretty,
languid, dressed with that particular style
that marks a woman of an ultra-fashionable
set, and, to English eyes, of a somewhat
exotic cultivation. All these people
seemed to be on terms of intimate acquaintance
with each other, and with the
Countess, who, resuming her seat on the
sofa, was speedily surrounded by a small
court, to whom she dispensed smiles or
sentiment as occasion demanded. I had
fallen naturally into the background, and
taken up the position of a silent observer,
during this influx of the habitues of the
house ; and one other person I noticed
stood aloof like myself, with the air of
knowing no one, and feeling no special
interest in anyone present. It was my
young Italian, Dino Morelli. He did not

see me at first ; I was standing, as I have
said, in the background, half-hidden, in
fact, in the curtained recess of the window;
but presently, by an impulse
natural in an artist, he went up to his
picture to study its effect in its new
quarters. He had taken it up, and was
looking at it by the light of a lamp close
by, when I accosted him.

'So,' I said, 'I was not aware that
you were acquainted with my old friend,
Countess Zelowsky.'

I have known her for three days,' he
answered, nth a smile ; ' we met first in
the Uffizi the day before yesterday. She
saw this copy, and, taking a fancy to it,
bought it on the spot. A good day's work
for me.'

Three days !' I said. ' I did not
suppose your acquaintance to be of such
recent date. On the contrary, the Countess
spoke in a way that led me to imagine

you to be on terms of some intimacy Avitli
lier.'

She is a very interesting woman,' lie
answered, looking at her across the room,
 and to anyone in sympathy with her, it
would not, I fancy, be a difficult matter
to gain her friendship in a very brief
space of time. It was not, however, to
see her that I came to-night ; I understood
that I was to meet '

He broke off, an extraordinary change
coming over his countenance. He was
looking: towards the door, and turnings mv
eyes in the same direction, I saw, to my
profound astonishment, my goddaughter
entering the room. She was alone, and
paused for one second on the threshold
between the looped-up curtains that draped
the doorway. Then, as the Countess rose
to meet her, she came forward.

No, I had certainly not erred in my
judgment that Elisabeth was a striking-vol.

II. p

looking girl. So striking indeed was her
appearance now that every head in the
room was turned towards her. She wore
a white gown of some shining material,
fashioned simply as the black one in which
I had previously seen her ; a gown which,
while fitting closely to her figure, seemed,
hy some dressmaker's art, to fall seamless
from neck to hem, like the angelic costume
designed by some old Tuscan or Umbrian
painter. Her strange eyes, and her hair,
bright, but colourless almost in the subdued
lamplight as that of one of Fra
Angelico's blond angels, enhanced this
curious Paradisaical effect, for which 1
gave my goddaughter great credit ; perceiving,
what my ignorance perhaps of
these feminine subtleties had prevented
my perceiving before, that she was no
more indifferent to the advantages of a
becoming toilette than every well-conducted
young woman ought to be. Round her

neck, suspended by a slender gold chain,
she wore a diamond medallion, her only
ornament ; and not all the trains and
draperies of the other women present
could have suited her admirable figure and
particular style of beauty so well as the
simple fashion of her shining white gown.
Countess Zelowsky, my lady-friends were
more than once careful to instruct me, was
in her way the best-dressed woman they
knew ; undoubtedly she had an air of
fashion and distinction with which Elisabeth
could not compete ; and yet as the
two met now in the middle of the room,
no one I believe would have looked for the
moment at the elder woman by the side of
the fair and dazzling apparition of my goddaughter.


The Countess received her with immense
effusiveness and many caressing expressions
of welcome. She drew her down on the
sofa beside her, she desired the fresh-faced

v2

little Nathialie to bring her a cap of tea,
she introduced to her one and another of
the gentlemen standing about. I was
unable to see A\ith what countenance my
goddaughter received these demonstrations
for her face Alas turned from me ; only the
back of her head was visible above the sofa
on which she was seated. Young Morelli
and I Averse. in fact, forgotten for the time
in the background ; and my attention was
presently diverted and quite occupied by
the young fellows demeanour. He stood
leaning a little forward, his hands grasping
the back of a chair, whilst his eyes were
fixed on the coil of white-gold hair just in
front of him with an immovable stare that
I feared would, in another moment, attract
general attention.

Come into the next room with me,
will you?' I said, touching him on the arm.
Countess Zelowsky has a Murillo there
which she believes to be genuine. I have

always made myself disagreeable to her by
maintaining that it is a copy ; I should like
your opinion in the matter.'

He followed me mechanically into the
adjoining room. I held up a candle to the
picture, and he stood contemplating it in
silence for a long while. Presently he
turned away.

'Well?' I said, setting down the light,
as he did not speak, ' am I right or
wrong ?'

I beg your pardon,' he said vaguely,
looking round the room. I perceived that
he had not an idea for what purpose he
had entered it. ' I must ask the Countess
to introduce me at once,' he said, moving
towards the door again.

'To my goddaughter? To Miss St.
Just ? My good boy, I could introduce
you myself, if that were all. But to speak
quite frankly I should have preferred, I
own, under the circumstances, that you

should first be introduced to her grandmother,
Lady Margaret St. Just.'

Her grandmother ? Her grandmother
is not here,' he said, staring and frowning
at me.

 Very true,' I replied, ' nevertheless,

you must surely understand ' and how

further I might have explained myself, I do
not know ; for at that moment I became
aware of the Countess's voice inquiring forme
in the adjoining salon.

Dr. Somers  what has become of
Dr. Somers?' I heard her saying. 'We
must on no account begin without him. I
am particularly anxious he should be
present.'

I made my appearance in the doorway.
I am here, Countess,' I said, ' in what
can I be useful to you ?'

Only as a convert, dear doctor,' she
cried, sith an air of charming gaiety, which
she sometimes allowed to alternate with

her moments of sentiment. ' We are going
to make a few experiments which mayor
may not have the results I anticipate,
but which will, I trust in any case, send
you home Yiih a mind more open to conviction
than it appeared to be an hour ago.
Since my young friend here has arrived,
we are in a position to begin immediately.'
I glanced round the room. Its aspect
had somewhat changed in the few minutes
since I left it ; the company had arranged
itself in an irregular circle, and appeared
to be waiting nth various degrees of
interest or indifference for the Countess's
experiments to begin. On my right was
seated Countess Nathalie, with a certain
solemnity on her face ; next to her was the
brown-faced youth ; beyond them, an
Italian marchese Yiih. fair beard and moustache
was laughing and joking \ith a
Russian lady of high degree, who sat
languidly listening and waving a huge

feather fan to and fro. Two people only
were standing, the Countess and my goddaughter
; and as I looked at them, it
flashed on me for the first time that Elisabeth
was the undeveloped medium who was
to facilitate the Countess's communications
with the spirit world. Yes, there could be
no doubt about it. There she stood on the
verge of the circle, her eyes cast down, her
hand held by the Countess, her unruffled
countenance betraying neither pleasure nor
displeasure at the prominent part she Alas
expected to play. I had not before had
the opportunity to speak to her ; and now,
instead of seating myself, I advanced and
addressed her.

Good evening, my dear,' I said ; ' it
is an unexpected pleasure to see you here
to-night. Lady Margaret, I am afraid, is
not well enough to venture out.'

Grandmamma is seldom well enough
to go out in the evening,' she answered, in

her cold gentle voice, ' but as Countess
Zelowsky assured us this was to be quite
a small party, she made no objection to
my coming by myself.'

She looked at me as she spoke with her
usual strange, impassive expression ; but
all at once her eyes, dilating as if nth
surprise, went beyond me, a flame shot into
them, and I felt a thrill pass through the
hand that lay indifferently in mine. Flame
and thrill were gone in an instant ; her eyelids
dropped, and gently disengaging her
hand, she turned away her head. But the
incident struck me unpleasantly when,
looking round, I saw Dino Morelli standing
a few paces behind me, gazing at his goddess,
with a fire which, so far from being-momentary,
blazed with an ardour sufficient,
one would say, to consume the whole
company. In him, indeed, it did not surprise
me. When a young man is in love,
he is in love ; tout est dit. But my goddaughter

!  Was I to suppose that this young
fellow's good looks and silent devotion had
touched her to the point that she recognised
in him that kindred soul who was to
fulfil and glorify life for her ? And at the
idea I nearly laughed, though it was no
laughing matter ; for you see, though I had
had a cure of souls for nearly forty years
of my life, I had never in my life heard
them so much talked about as during these
last thirty-six hours.

I stepped back to young Morelli. 'Let
us sit down,' I said, lang my hand on
his shoulder, ' we are in people's way here,
don't you see ?'

I managed to draw him to the back of
the circle, but he would not sit down ; he
remained standing, leaning against the
wall, and I placed myself at his side. My
interest in the Countess's proceedings,
languid before, had increased to a very unpleasant
degree swithin the last ten minutes.

Recently as I had made my goddaughter's
acquaintance, I yet felt a certain responsibility
in regard to her; a feeling by no means
diminished by her singular personality and
enigmatic character. I stood attentive,
therefore, prepared to interfere should I
see occasion to do so ; whilst the Countess,
still holding Elisabeth's hand, addressed
with much grace and fluency the little
circle. She spoke in French, the language
she had the habit of using in general
society.

This is not a regular seance she
said, smiling, and looking round, ' it would
have been impossible for me to organize one
for this evening ; and in fact, our society
is perhaps too mixed for anything of the
kind to be seriously attempted. Yes,
marchese,' with a wave of her fan in the
direction of the fair-bearded Italian, ' you
are an insuperable obstacle, and you know
it. No, don't protest, and don't go away ;

unbelievers are invaluable sometimes, and
I am charmed to see both you and another
sceptical friend of mine here to-night.
You are more than welcome, I assure you.
But everyone present,' she continued,
looking again round the circle, ' is aware,
I believe, of the deep interest I take in
the problems of what is generally called
spiritualism, and how eagerly I seek after
everything that may place it on a firmer
basis and obtain der and more spiritual
results. Under the circumstances of this
evening, however, it may perhaps be well
to set aside for the present the deeper and
more occult subjects of inquiry ; and my
chief motive for the moment in inviting
your attention is to allow my young
friend, Miss St. Just, to exhibit her mesmeric
powers. For although mesmerism
and spiritualism are distinct, the two are
yet so closely allied that I have a conviction
that Miss St. Just will develop

powers as a medium no less remarkable
than her powers as a mesmerist.'

Permit me, madame,' said a thin
eager man, starting up, ' you are desirous,
if I understand you rightly, to test this
young lady's powers as a medium, powers
that you affirm to be as yet untried. Have
no manifestations ever attended her presence
? And in any case would it not be
better that she should be thrown into the
mesmeric trance, rather than that she
should exhaust herself by producing it in
others? I am entirely at your service,
you know.'

You are always goodness itself, doctor,
I am aware,' said the Countess indifferently,
weaving him aside, ' but I must
be allowed to conduct this matter in accordance
vnih my own views. Miss St.
Just is kind enough to say she is quite
prepared, and the only question is, which
among us will be the best subject.'

She let her eyes pass slowly round the
circle. The fair-bearded marchese sprang up
instantly.

'I am ready, perfectly ready, Countess,'
he cried, bringing forward his chair
into the centre of the circle ; ' pray allow
me to be the first victim. Under such
sweet influences I could be content to
slumber for ever.'

No, no, marchese,' said the Countess,
gaily,  we know you too well. For your
own sake I advise you to remain tranquil ;
for after all, you know, you are here only
on sufferance this evening. Who shall it
be? Sergius  Nathalie  Dr. Somers, it is
of no use to appeal to you  ah, yes,
precisely '

My attention had for the moment been
called away by Countess Nathalie, who had
half-risen at her cousin's appeal, with a
look at once eager and timid on her little
round face. But the brown-faced youth

at her side laid a detaining hand on her
arm, and she sank back again, turning
to her companion nth a confiding smile
that assured me she had found a
safer protector than her many-sided relative
was likely to prove herself. The
change in Countess Zelowsky's voice, however,
as she spoke the last words, recalled
me to the circle ; and looking
round, I perceived that young Morelli,
whom I had intended to keep safe under
my eye, had slipped away from my side.
Not only so ; he had placed himself where
I could least have wished to see him, in
the chair, namely, that the Countess had
caused to be placed in the midst of the
circle, his eyes fixed persistently as ever
on my goddaughter's face. She, meanwhile,
stood motionless and inanimate,
with downcast eyes, her hands dependent
at her side ; inattentive, as it seemed, to
the attention she awoke, as to the incessant

flutter kept up about her by Countess
Zelowsky.

Silence, if you please,' said this latter
now with a circular wave of her ever-ready
fan. ' Dr. Somers, might I ask
you to lower that lamp  we have too
much light. Now, Miss St. Just, weare
ready, I believe, if you will fulfil your
kind promise.'

Elisabeth advanced slowly at the words 
her eyes downcast as before. She did not
look beautiful at that moment ; her blank
expressionless air as she moved forward
unconscious apparently of the gaze directed
upon her by every eye in the room, gave
her the aspect of being herself in a mesmeric
trance, or of walking in her sleep. At a
short distance from Dino Morelli, she paused,
and lifting her arms from her side,
still without raising her eyes, began
mechanically to make the first mesmeric
passes. An absolute silence now reigned

in the room, a sense that something unusual
was passing ; the hurrying breath of
one or two of the spectators was the only
sound audible. For myself, I could not
remove my eyes from the two young people
before me. The flaming ardour that darted
from the young Italian's eyes, the white
impassiveness of Elisabeth, held the attention
by a contrast so singular, that I own
I could not have stirred to interfere, even
had I desired it. Gradually beneath young
Morelli's persistent gaze, a faint colour rose
to my goddaughter's cheeks ; with her
hands still raised, she advanced slowly
step by step, as one dragged forward
against her will ; whilst by a simultaneous
movement, Morelli, with his arms resting
on those of the chair in which he was seated,
lifted himself to meet her. Her eyelids
raised themselves reluctantly, as
though against some heavy weight ; she
paused, their eyes met, hers kindled into
VOL. II. Q

life ; and so for nearly a minute the two must
have stood confronting each other nth parted
lips and suspended breath, glance answering
glance with an eloquence, a melting
fire of passion that held not only themselves,
but everyone present spell-bound.
Involuntarily they drew closer together;
nor do I know how the scene might have
ended, but that all at once my goddaughter
heaved a deep sigh, looked vaguely
round, stretching out her hands helplessly,
and fell back into my arms, as I
started forward just in time to receive her.
Enough of this,' I cried, angrily.
Countess, what did I tell you? You
get hold of a nervous, hysterical, excitable
girl to execute your follies, and this is the
result. As for you,' I went on, turning
"with no less anger on Dino Morelli who
had pressed forward, ' don't show yourself
again to-night. I have no patience with
you. What business have you to persecute

n lady you never spoke to in your life with
your insane folly?'

The circle had broken up in confusion,
and a dozen people were crowding round
Elisabeth. She had not fainted, as I at
first believed : or if she had, the faintness
lasted for a moment only. She roused herself,
and allowed me to lead her into the
next room, which was empty. What
became of the remaining guests, I do not
know; I saw none of them again. I took
my goddaughter home as soon as she had
drunk a glass of wine that the Countess
presently brought her ; we exchanged
hardly three words on the way, but I did
not leave her until I had seen her safely
placed in the care of her grandmother's
maid.

Q 

CHAPTER IV.

I called early the next day at the hotel
on the Lung' Arno, and was told that Lady
Margaret would see me. Miss St. Just
the servant informed me on our way to
the salon, had not yet left her room ; she
was suffering from a bad headache ; and
Lady Margaret presently confirmed this
statement.

Elisabeth goes out so little,' she said.
that the excitement of even a small
party is sometimes too much for her. It
was, I believe, quite a small party last
night, Dr. Somers?'

About twenty people,' I replied.

" Have you seen your granddaughter today,
Lady Margaret ?'

Not yet,' lie answered. ' I am myself
only just out of my room. We are
sad lazy people,' lie said smiling, 'but
there is nothing easier than to fall into
invalid ways, and nothing harder than to
get out of them again.'

She looked so frail, that invalid ways
belonged to her, one would say, of right ;
too frail, I thought to myself, to be an
efficient guardian to her granddaughter.

Lady Margaret,' I said, ' might I
inquire whether you are at all intimately
acquainted nth Countess Zelowsky?'

I have known her slightly for years,*
she answered ; ' we have been at each
other's houses ; she knows all the best
people here, you know. Intimately, no ;
I have known perhaps six people intimately
in my life. Countess Zelowsky is certainly
not one of them.'

I, on the other hand,' I said, ' have
had the opportunity to know Countess
Zelowsky about as intimately as it falls in
one's way to know anyone not immediately
connected with oneself. She has her good
points, no doubt ; I should be sorry to
think otherwise ; but she is not a woman I
should trust, or whose society I should
think likely to benefit your granddaughter.
You will excuse my saying this, I know.'

Dear Dr. Somers, it is only kindness
on your part. But to tell you the truth,
I was glad to have Elisabeth go to her
house last night. The poor child has so
little amusement. I could not of course
allow her to go to large parties without a
chaperon, and she is not a girl, I am happy
to say, to make acquaintance easily. But
she and Countess Zelowsky seem to have
taken a mutual liking for each other. I
have never myself greatly cared for Countess
Zelowsky, as I said before ; she struck

me, as she seems to have struck you, asa
somewhat superficial and inconsequent
woman ; but she has always known everyone
best worth knowing in Florence. I
met her constantly in my own set in the
days when I was able to go into society
here, and we have many old acquaintance
in common. If Elisabeth indeed were a
giddy flighty girl, or had any touch of the
horrible fastness of the young people of
the present day, I might feel a difficulty
about ever letting her out of my sight.
But if anything she is too sober, too steady.
If I could bring myself to find a fault nth
my dear child, it would be, perhaps, that
she just lacks that finishing touch and
grace that a little more mingling with
society Avould give her. Just a little experience
in the ways of this wicked world
will do her no harm, if I may be permitted
to say such a thing to her godfather,' she
concluded, with a smile.

I shook my head. 'Countess Zelow-
sky knows far too many of the ways of this
wicked world,' I said, ' and these steady
girls prove themselves occasionally apter
pupils than one would think. Besides

there are other reasons ' I hesitated

a moment. On reflection and in consideration
of my old friend's feeble health and
uncertain powers, I had decided to say nothing
of the scene that had last night made
so painful an impression on myself. The
scene indeed, apart from suspicions that I
should not have cared to formulate, had
little meaning ; for as regards the mesmerism,
I attached little importance to it in
itself. I had no idea that, outside the
Countess's imagination, my goddaughter
was either a mesmerist or a medium,
though like many other people, she might
probably enough have entertained herself
by trying her powers as the former. No,
rightly or wrongly, I had decided to say

nothing to Lady Margaret of what might
have perplexed and frightened, without enlightening
her. But in view of the possibility
of Elisabeth's meeting him again, I
thought it right to instruct her in the
episode of my love-crazed young Italian.
Rather to my dismay, she treated the whole
matter very lightly, with no stronger sentiment
indeed than some slight indignation
that I should suppose it possible the affair
could have a serious aspect.

Elisabeth is my granddaughter, Dr.
Somers,' she said ; ' how can you suppose
it possible she should even look at a nameless
Italian artist of whom she knows
nothing ?'

He is quite worth looking at, I assure
you,' I answered,  as handsome a young
fellow as ever I saw in my life.'

Oh,' she said, with real indignation
now, ' you would not accuse Elisabeth of
being influenced by the good looks of a

young man of whom she can know nothing
but that he is beneath her in every
way?'

I accuse her of nothing, believe me
I said ; ' you must remember, Lady Margaret,
I know very little of your granddaughter.
I am speaking merely from my
knowledge of human nature in general,
and of young human nature in particular,
aided by one or two observations I made
last night.'

Ah, it is true, you know very little of
her,' said my old friend, mollified, ' if you
saw her every day as I do, so good and
gentle and steady, with really no defects
beyond those little wants in her character
I have before spoken of, you would understand
how unimportant all this story
seems to me. You see, Dr. Somers, when
one has to deal with one's own children,
there is the character of one's whole family
no less than their own to depend upon. I

should be doing not only Elisabeth, but all
of us, injustice, by entertaining unworthy
suspicions of her.'

I could say no more. It was not the
first time I had been confronted by Lady
Margaret's unalterable faith in everything
and everyone belonging to her. She had
a very sufficient and efficient knowledge of
life and its pitfalls in general; but her
imagination refused to contemplate them
as possibly affecting anything personal to
herself I could only trust the caution I
had intended to convey might influence
her, and as I rose to go, I allowed myself
one parting shot.

Do you know anything of mesmerism,
Lady Margaret?' I said. 'Your granddaughter,
I understand, is a mesmerist.'

Oh, surely not. Dr. Somers,' she said
with a smile, ' mesmerism are all charlatans,
are they not ? Do they not profess
to work all sorts of wonderful cures ?

Your kind anxiety about Elisabeth is misleading
you, surely.'

Well, I would ask ber about it, if I
were you,' I said, ' she may have been
thrown with that sort of people in Stockholm,
you know.' And with that I took
my departure, very ill-satisfied with my
interview, and presently made my way to
Countess Zelowsky's house.

I was fortunate in finding that lady at
home. She was alone and seated at her
piano ; and acknowledging my entrance by
a slight movement of the head, went on
playing for nearly half-an-hour before she
spoke. I was in no hurry ; otherwise not
even her very delightful music might have
prevented my impatience from growing
stronger than my politeness. As it was, I
found an irritation of the nerves gaining
on me by degrees, that quite destroyed
the enjoyment I generally found in her
playing, and was near driving me from

the room, when she rose at last, giving me
her left hand by way of greeting, whilst
she arranged some music with the right.

So,' she said then, seating herself on
the sofa and inviting me to take an armchair
opposite to her, ' I find that my
medium and your goddaughter are one
and the same person. What pleasant surprises
life holds in store for us.'

Countess Zelowsky.' I said, Avithout
sitting down, ' I suppose you would not
do me a favour?'

What a singular remark. Dr. Somers !
A whole revelation of your opinion of my
character, and one that only an Englishman,
I verily believe, would make. You
have found me so unamiable, then, so selfish,
so unwilling to show kindness to

others But do sit down. You will

think better of me, I feel sure, than when
you are standing ; I shall at least, feel less
crushed by your bad opinion of me.'

I sat down as desired.

Forgive me,' I said, ' your imagination
has interpreted my remark quite differently
from what I intended. I meant of
course, to express myself unworthy of your
favour. But I \vill change its form ; will
you do me a favour ?'

'With the greatest pleasure,' she said,
with beaming eyes. ' What is it ?'

To forget that you ever imagined my
goddaughter to be a medium, and let her
entirely alone.'

Ah,' she said, with an air of disappointment,
' I thought it was some favour
altogether personal to yourself you were
going to be good enough to suggest to me.
And after all, it does not concern you at
all.'

I was horrified,' I went on, ' with the
scene last night.'

'Horrified?' she said, 'and I found it
so deeply interesting. It was a revelation
to me.'

A revelation of folly,' I said, indignantly.


Ah, there you are wrong, doctor,'
she answered ; * you must remember that
you have not gone into these things as I
have, and that what may appear folly to
you, may well be the deepest wisdom tome.
You must remember what I told you
yesterday evening; that for a long time
past all my researches, ma recherche de
Vabsolu my philosopher's stone  all my
researches, I say, have been directed to the
discovery of two souls in such perfect
sympathy that one may act as medium to
the other without the slightest jar or
obstacle or obstruction. All that spiritualists
have hitherto done, has been like looking
through cracked or obscure glass as
compared with pure and flawless crystal.
Now I verily believe I have found what I
wanted  not in relation to myself ; there I
was in error  and I expect the most
astonishing results.'

Are you aware,' I said, abruptly,
that that young Italian artist is madly in
love with Miss St. Just?'

No,' she answered, smiling, ' I saw
them both for the first time three days
days ago. How should I know anything
about it ?'

Such however, is the case,' I said,
and this being so, you will I feel sure.
Countess, see the propriety of their not
meeting at your house. No good can
come of it in any way, no good whatever ;
but an infinite deal of mischief might be
brewed were they to have the opportunity
of seeing each other here.'

Dear Dr. Somers,' said the Countess,
touching a bell at her side, ' you
are  show shall I express it ? hardly yourself
to-day. How can you imagine I
should allow mischief to be brewed, as you
term it, in my house ? This is a question of
science, not of love-making  The carriage,

Beppe,' this to the servant who had appeared
in answer to the bell.  ' You will excuse
me, I am sure,' she said, turning tome
and gathering her draperies about her,
but I have an appointment at three, which
it is absolutely necessary I should keep to
the minute.'

1 rose. ' And my favour is not granted
after all,' I said.

Anything for yourself, dear doctor,'
she answered, 'v\ith her sweetest smile; a
smile I knew well, and in which something
of hardness always lurked. ' You could not
confer on me a greater pleasure than by
making a request within my power to grant.
Come in this evening, yl\l you ? We shall
have some music. No ? To-morrow evening
then. I am always at home from nine
till twelve to my intimate friends. Au
re voir.'

She swept towards the door, and I went
away provoked and baffled ; with that sense

VOL. II. R

too, of having blundered, that inevitably
waits upon any such baffling. And yet, as I
reflected walking homewards, might I not
be troubling myself without reason ? Lady
Margaret undoubtedly knew her granddaughter
better than I did ; and on what,
after all, were my suspicions founded? On an
accepted flower ; on a glance, on a nothing.
That same evening I received a letter from
an Italian friend who was about to superintend
the opening of some newly discovered
Etruscan tombs, and who invited me to be
present on the occasion. A stronger
temptation could not have been offered
me ; nay, the chance was one not to be
thrown away, since I was at that time at
work on my pamphlet on the latest
Etruscan researches in Italy. I left Florence,
and was absent nearly three
weeks, during which I heard nothing
of my goddaughter. I should not indeed
be far from the truth in saying that

during all that period she only occasionally
occupied my thoughts, so absorbing was the
interest of the work on which we were
engaged. Only as I was in the train
returning to Florence, did I begin to wonder
nth some seriousness how matters had
sped in my absence, and whether my forebodings
or Lady Margaret's confidence had
been justified.

I called on Lady Margaret immediately
on my return, but I did not see her. She
had been suffering, I was told by her
English maid, from one of the fits of
nervous prostration to which she was
subject; and though much better and
able to leave her room, was ordered perfect
quiet. Miss St. Just was well, and
as much With her grandmother as possible ;
but she was out at that moment. I left
my card nth a few lines written on it,
announcing my return, and expressing the
hope that I might soon see my old friend

r2

again; and went away satisfied that all
was so far vell, and that I had been too
ready to foresee disaster.

CHAPTER V.

The evening of that day, as I remember,
set in wet and stormy, with a westerly
gale that swept along the Arno valley. I
had caused a little fire of olive-branches
to be lighted on my hearth to cheer the
chill gloom, and was sitting over it towards
ten o'clock, my attention divided
between the book on my knee and the
.sound of the rain and the river outside,
when I was startled by a ring at the outer
door that shut in my little apartment. I
went to open it ; a hotel messenger was
standing there, who handed me a letter
marked ' Immediate.' It was from Lady
Margaret, a note with an enclosure.

Dear Dr. Somers,' she wrote, ' can
you come to me at once? I am in the
greatest anxiety and perplexity. I cannot
write more. The enclosed letter will
explain.  M. St. J.'

The writing was almost illegible, a
cramped and trembling old woman's hand.
I turned to the enclosure. If there had
been any trembling in the hand that wrote
those lines, it did not appear. I had seen
the writing once before, and knew it to be
that of my goddaughter.

Dear grand mamma,' the letter ran
I desire no concealment, I write without
reserve to tell you of the step I am about
to take  a step which I cannot hope you
will approve, but which I feel to be as
necessary to my life as to breathe the free air
under heaven. I leave Florence for Leghorn
to-night, attended by the Countess Zelow-
sky's maid ; tomorrow I meet Dino Morelli,
and we take the first steamer to England*

Immediately on our arrival there we shall
be married. Do not attempt to detain
me ; any such effort would be useless. I
have found life, and to part with life is
death. If I cause you pain, forgive me.
For me also the moment is not without
pain ; but it is the pain of a new birth
Your granddaughter,

Elisabeth St. Just.'

Ten minutes later I was at Lady Margaret's
hotel. Her English maid, who met
me at the door of her apartment, accosted
me with subdued voice and countenance.

My lady is very bad,' she said, in a
half whisper ; ' she was taken with a sort
of fit after reading Miss St. Just's letter.
Oh ! I know all about it, sir ; I've lived
with my lady this forty years. No, it's
not a stroke, thank God ; a sort of nervous
attack ; but at my lady's age, and with her
health, there's no knowing what the end

may be. Shell see you, sir, and the sooner
the better, for she wouldn't let me send
for the doctor till you'd been.'

She ushered me into Lady Margaret's
bed-room. My dear old friend was seated
in a big arm-chair by the fire ; she was
dressed nth her usual charming neatness
and propriety, her laces and shawls arranged
With the usual care ; but the first sight of
her gave me a terrible shock. Hardly
could she have looked otherwise had she
been at the point of death. She held out
her trembling hand to me ; for a moment
she could not speak.

I loved her,' she said at last, in a
broken, hardly audible voice ; ' she has
gone to certain misery and ruin, and I
might have saved her. It is my fault.'

No one's less,' I answered, ' and she
shall be saved yet. I will go myself to
Leghorn and bring her back.'

A slight pressure of the old lady's

hand responded; but lie did not speak.

Do you know,' I said, ' to what hotel
she has gone ?'

She shook her head. ' Only the letter,'
she said, faintly.

It is no matter,' I answered, ' I shall
not fail to find her. I vill start by the
earliest train tomorrow morning ; by the
evening she shall be with you once more.
Trust to me.'

She made no answer beyond feebly
pressing my hand again. ' You had better
send for the doctor at once,' I said to
her woman as I passed out, * your mistress
is very ill.'

In truth, the shock had been too great,
and I believed her to be d3dng. Even
now, at this distance of time, I could
hardly perhaps find words to express the
strath, the burning indignation I felt towards
everyone concerned, towards Elisabeth,
towards young Morelli, above all,

towards Countess Zelowsky. I looked at
my watch as I stepped into the street. It
Alas not yet half-past ten ; and I at once
set off down the Lung' Arno, to carry out
the intention I had formed in Lady Margaret's
room ; the intention, namely, of
seeing Countess Zelowsky and demanding
of her the information I had little doubt
she could give, the name of the hotel
at Leghorn or the address of the lodging
to which my goddaughter was gone.

It was blowing hard, as I have said,
and pouring with rain. The sky spread
black overhead, the river ran black beneath,
between the rows of flickering
lamps ; the pavement glistened with pools
of water into which I splashed at every
second step. It is not an immense hardship
to walk down a wet street on a stormy
night, but at my age one does not despise
such consolation as the minor comforts of
life afford ; and whilst the beating rain

damped a little the first heat and ardour
of my passion, yet when I thought of my
deserted fire and arm-chair, I felt even less
charitably disposed than before towards
everyone concerned in this childish and
yet most iniquitous business. I was
drenched by the time I reached Countess
Zelowsky's house ; but if anything could
have afforded me content at that moment,
I should have found it in the thought of
bringing my mud-stained boots and dripping
garments into her cushioned and
perfumed apartment. I believe I felt
brutal  a sentiment, I need not say, in
which no Church of England parson ought
to indulge for a moment.

The man-servant who opened the door
stared at me. The Signora Confess was
invisible, he said ; she had retired for the
night, she was ill, she had been in bed all
day, it was impossible that she should receive
me. 'Tell her,' I said, giving the

man my card,  that Dr. Somers demands
to see her on a subject of the utmost importance,
and refuses to leave the house
until he shall have had five minutes' conversation
with her. She vnll receive me,
I assure you.'

The man stared again and retired. Ina
moment he returned and introduced me
into the well-known little salon. It was
empty, but lamps were burning and a fire
blazed brightly. I knew the Countess's
habits well, and that she seldom retired
before midnight ; often, indeed, turning
night into day, and keeping her establishment
out of bed until three or four in the
morning. That she had been sitting in
this room was evident, for the sofa-cushions
were disarranged and an open book lay
face downwards on the couch; probably
she had only retired to give herself the
advantage of an entry. In a few minutes
in fact, she appeared, in a sort of loose trailing

robe, an air of suffering, and a black
lace mantilla thrown over her head, the
folds of which she held gathered together
with her right hand under her chin.

Dr. Somers,' she said, presenting me
with her left hand, and sinking into a
chair, ' how you have startled me. What
has happened? I am suffering to-night
acutely ; and I was already in my room
when your card and message were brought
me.'

Pardon me, Countess,' I said. ' I am
here in the interests of a lady who is
suffering still more acutely than yourself,
or I should not have ventured to disturb
you at this hour. I have j must left Lady
Margaret St. Just in a state which at
her age and with her frail health I must
reo-ard as in the his-hest de;n-ee critical. I
have come to you to beg you to furnish me
with the name of the Leghorn hotel to which
her granddaughter has gone.'

 Her granddaughter !' said the Countess,
faintly.

Certainly  her granddaughter and my
goddaughter, Elisabeth St. Just. By her
own account, she left your house to-night
accompanied by your maid. You must be
intimately acquainted with her movements.'


Dr. Somers,' said the Countess, letting
her hands fall into her lap. ' I
assure you positively that I am in noway
responsible for Miss St. Just's proceedings.
I think the step she has taken
to-night an extremely rash and foolish one.
I would have prevented it had I been able.'

'You do not believe me,' she went on, as
I did not immediately reply.

Pardon me,' I said, 'that is an
assumption I cannot permit for a moment.
At the same time, if I am not mistaken,
Miss St. Just has had opportunities afforded
her here for meeting this young Italian

in a way that would have been impossible at
her grandmother's house. Is it not true that
they have met here more than once during
the last three weeks ?'

Ah, for that,' said the Countess, with
a sigh, ' it is true, and I regret nothing
more in this unfortunate business than
that it should have brought that delightful
intercourse to a close. You have heard of
elective affinities, of course, Dr. Somers ?
Ah yes ; there is not one of us that has not
had some such experience, painful and
beautiful alike. But I never sav a more
perfect example than in these two young
people. Their souls seemed absolutely
made for each other ; one would have said
that each had been waiting for the other
to live for the first time. And as regards
my spiritualist theory  you will not have
forgotten it  of communication with the
unseen world through the medium of a
perfect sympathy '

'Pardon me I said again, 'but my
time is limited. Would you kindly furnish
me with the name of the hotel or lodging
to which Miss St. Just has gone to-night
in Leghorn ?'

Miss St. Just,' replied the Countess,
not directly answering my question, ' has
in my opinion, acted with extreme folly in
writing as she did to her grandmother.
Having determined upon this step, such a
letter at this moment could only introduce
useless complications. But like most
young people, doctor, she was convinced
that her own way was the best. She
affirmed that she preferred to act with
perfect frankness, and that her will was
strong enough to assert itself against all
obstacles. But had she followed my
advice, she would have been silent.'

And yet, madame,' I said, ' you
affirm that all this scandalous business has
been carried on against your consent.'

'I affirm it with perfect truth,' cried
the Countess, ' I give you my word of honour,
Dr. Somers, that I did everything in
my power to dissuade Miss St. Just from
what I regard as a horrible esclandre. Good
heavens, am I a 'person to approve of a
young woman of birth and fortune running
away like a kitchen-maid ? Only when I
found that her mind was absolutely set
upon it, I agreed that she should start
from my house, and persuaded her to
allow my maid  whom I dismiss, of course,
from my service tomorrow  to accompany
her to-night, so as to save appearances as
as much as possible. I presume, doctor,
that you do not disapprove of my conduct
in that respect, and that you would not
prefer that your goddaughter should have
eloped from the hotel and been joined by
her lover at the railway-station to-night.'

It was a new view of the question, I
was forced to admit. But the whole busi-

voL. ir. s

ness was so disgraceful to all concerned
that I felt little mollified.

'Her lover Avill join her tomorrow,' I
said, ' unless I am in time to prevent it. I
go to Leghorn by the first train ; and if
you, madame, will direct me to the hotel
where I am likely to find Miss St. Just,
you will spare me no little time and trouble,
to say the least. You would oblige me
infinitely by so doing : and if, as you say,
you disapprove of this whole affair, I am at
a loss to understand the hesitation you
seem to feel  as I am at a loss,' I added,
to understand why, when you saw the
turn things were taking, you did not apprise
Lady Margaret, and put a stop to it.'

I am not Miss St. Just's keeper,' answered
the Countess, with coldness ; ' she
is of age and competent, according to your
English ideas, to manage her ovn affairs.
It was no business of mine to interfere between
her and her grandmother, nth whom

I have only a very slight acquaintance.
And for the rest,' she went on, smiling a
little and beginning to play with the large
fan at her side, ' I am in Miss St. Just's
confidence, and have no right to betray
what she has not chosen to reveal. You,
dear doctor, with your strict principles,
will not fail to appreciate such a motive, I
am sure.'

She smiled again with the last words.
I believe she had spoken with perfect sincerity
in her condemnation of Elisabeth's
flight, that she had done what she could
by argument and dissuasion to prevent it.
It had scared her probably ; she had looked
both pale and agitated when she entered
the room. But the mere fact that Countess
Zelowsky found herself confronted by a
man, was sufficient to arouse in her one of
the strongest instincts of womanhood as she
understood it  the desire to try her power.
Yes, she had set herself, as I saw by a

s2

well-known gleam in her eye, to be both
obstinate and provoking  to amuse herself,
in short ; and I was in no temper to
submit to such a mood. INor was I in the
temper to try to flatter her out of it. Lady
Margaret's face was before me, and the
urgent necessity for no delay in finding
Elisabeth on the morrow ; and the moment
to me was a tragic one. Plain speech remained,
but to plain speech the Countess
would not always listen. nevertheless, I
determined to make an appeal to that
better nature in Which a large experience
of my fellow-creatures has taught me to
have an inalienable belief.

Countess Zelowsky,' T said, ' half-an-hour
ago I left Lady Margaret St. Just in
what I believe to be an almost dying state.
She worshipped her granddaughter  with
little enough reason, heaven knows ; but
so it was. I verily believe that poor
woman's one chance of life depends on

my restoring my goddaughter to lier. If,
for any reason, I fail to find Elisabeth, I
do not believe she mil be alive tomorrow
night

The Countess slightly shrugged her
shoulders. ' She should have looked after
her granddaughter better,' was all she
said.

I made no attempt to argue the point ;
it would have been useless. I tried another
tack.

We are old friends. Countess,' I said.
It is now several years that we have
known each other with some degree of
intimacy.'

It is indeed,' she said, looking up at
me. 'Ah, Dr. Somers, the one redeeming
feature of growing old is that we learn
to value old friendships. What precious
memories they leave ! and there are none,
believe me, that I value more than those
left by the hours we once spent together.

I used to play to you ; do you remember ?
Would you like me to play now ? I often
begin at this hour and go on till tyo or
three in the morning ; there is something
I could hardly explain it  that inspires
one, and renders one insensible to fatigue.
Sometimes I simply sit with my hands on
the keys, and melodies seem to flow round
me. It is a strange experience.'

Old friendships leave memories, Countess,'
I replied, ' but they leave duties
also  or so I have always believed ; obligations,
the payment of reciprocal debts and
so on.'

'Friends do not remind each other of
these things,' said the Countess softly.

Not as a rule  no ; they keep them
in mind and pay them when occasion
arises without necessity of speech. I,
Countess, owe you not a few obligations
for your charming music, and for the kind
attention with which in former days you

listened to remarks from me that repetition
may have made a little wearisome.

sand I ?' she said, smiling. 'Ah!

let the debt remain unpaid. There is nothing
but what is sweet in the sense of
obligation between friends.'

I am not jesting,' I answered, ' it is
in all seriousness that 1 appeal to the
memory of those days, in the persuasion
that it mil induce you to do me the
essential service I ask of you. There was
a time, Countess, when from the midst of
your own deep trouble, you appealed tome
for help ; when you assured me that
that help had not been in vain. They
were not light matters that occupied us
then, but the deepest truths with which
humanity can concern itself. My words
had power to console you, or so you told
me ; for a time at any rate they helped
to smooth and lighten a dark and difficult
passage of your life. As one of God's

ministers, no less than as a friend, I spoke
to you then ; in the same character, and
by the memory of those days, I appeal to
you to-night.'

I spoke with solemnity; and as I spoke,
her restless movements ceased, her head
sank a little, she sat motionless. For
three, for five minutes perhaps, she did
not move; then quickly, without a
word, she pressed her handkerchief to
her eyes ; and turning her back upon me,
drew towards her a small table that stood
at the foot of the sofa, tore a leaf from a
note-book lying there, and wrote something
on it in pencil. Rising, and still with
averted head, she put it into my hand nth
a momentary pressure of her fingers.
Good-night and good-bye,' she said ; and
before I could speak, she had vanished from
the room.

By the light of the lamp in the hall
below, I read what was Written on the

scrap of paper. It was the name of the
inn in Leghorn ; below, in half-illegible
characters:  Frieze pour rnoi. If I slightly
shrugged my shoulders at the moment, I
trust I may be forgiven. I have thought
better of it since ; for after all, we are all
frail human creatures together, and need
each other's prayers, God knows. I have
thought better of it since, as time has softened
my recollection of Countess Zelowsky,
for it so happens that since that night I have
never seen her. She returned to St. Petersburg
the following autumn, accompanied
by her young cousin, who, as I heard, was
shortly afterwards married to the brown-faced
Prince Sergius  and by neither word
nor sign has my old Florentine acquaintance
communicated with me again.

I was in Leghorn before noon the following
day, and had myself at once driven
to the hotel whose name had been furnished

me by Countess Zelowsky. It was an
inn rather than an hotel, hardly more indeed
than a trattoria ; a rough little place,
thoroughly Italian in character, but not
wanting in cleanliness. It had been chosen
presumably, by Dino Morelli, in the idea
that it was a place where my goddaughter's
arrival might excite less attention than in
one of the hotels frequented by foreigners ;
certainly I myself might have sought long
through Leghorn before finding it. Butin
truth, I am not prepared to assume he
had any such reason. The whole scheme
was so wild, so unconnected with practical
life, so invented, to all appearance, in the
determination to live through at least one
chapter of romance, that it were useless to
attempt to frame any reasonable theory in
the matter.

The front door stood open, and I entered
a narrow hall that, running through the
house, showed an open door at the other

end leading into a little courtyard or
garden, where tables were set beneath
trellised vines whose fresh green was just
beginning to spread. A man appeared
from a small room on one side of the
passage, and inquired my business.

I wish to see the English lady who
arrived last night,' I said. ' Have the
goodness to shoal me to her room. I amin
haste, and have business that admits of
no delay.'

I think she is engaged,' replied the
man ; ' a gentleman called here a few minutes
ago and asked to see her. I think he
is with her now.'

The gentleman is gone,' said a second
man who had just come up ; ' he went
away a minute ago. But he said he should
be back in five minutes, and that a carriage
was to be ready to take the lady down to
the boat.'

In that case, show me to her room at

once,' I said  ' there is no time to lose.'
The man who had first spoken, and
whom I assumed to be the padrone, looked
at me with some curiosity, I thought ; but
dthout further parley, he led the way
with a lounging step along the passage, up
a flight of stone stairs to the first landing,
where he knocked at a closed door. A
voice from within answered ; and opening
the door, he announced a visitor for the
young lady, and stood aside to let me
pass. The morning was bright after last
night's storm, and a dazzle of sunlight
through an open window was what first
caught my attention ; but as my vision
cleared, I saw that I was in a square,
barely-furnished apartment, a small public
room probably, used when the larger restaurant
below was full. A table pushed
back against the wall and some straw
chairs were the only furniture ; through
the unshaded window came the sunshine

and between red house-roofs a dazzle of
blue sea far-off against the sky. My
goddaughter was seated near the endows,
her back to the door ; but she turned and
slowly rose as I entered, a dark slender
figure against the light, in her usual austere
garb, nth the pale gold of her hair
shining in the sun. A long cloak, fastened
at the throat, hung round her in straight
folds ; in her hand she held her black
straw hat. She looked at me for a moment
with a startled glance, but for a
moment only; then her eyes took again
the visionary look with which I was
familiar.

Elisabeth,' I said, walking straight upto
her and taking her hand, ' I have come
to take you home again.'

Oh, no,' she said, in her usual cold,
gentle tones, withdrawing her hand from
mine, ' that is impossible.'

Why impossible ?' I said. ' You have

taken a very foolish step, but fortunately
it is not too late to retrieve it. Return
with me to Florence, and all will be as
before.'

It is impossible,' she repeated ; ' if I
had intended to retrieve the step, I should
not have taken it. I have done it with
my eyes open. I know what I am about.'

I doubt it, my dear,' I answered; ' I never
doubted anything more in my life. Here, to
set the matter plainly, is a young fellow
whom you have known for three weeks '

Three weeks !' she said, as who should
say, ' An eternity !' ' Oh,' she said, ' every
minute of it has been longer than all my
life hitherto. I have lived for the first
time.'

Her eyes began to flame. Certainly my
goddaughter had the strangest eyes I have
ever seen. In whatever chamber of her
being the soul of which she was fond of
talking may have lain dormant, no sooner

was it touched than it began to blaze
through her eyes. She was transfigured.

Ah, here we are again !' I cried, in
vexation ; 'you talk about life, ray dear,
as a robin that has never left its nest
might talk about the ocean. You each of
you know about as much of the other.
And now you propose to confront it nth
this young Italian whom a month ago had
you not even seen.'

I love him,' she said, spreading out
her hands and letting them fall at her
side. There was nothing theatrical in the
gesture. Whatever my goddaughter said
and did was absolutely genuine. She was,
I believe, incapable of affectation. It was
the redeeming point of a character that
affected me as singularly antagonistic and
unpleasant.

Every young girl, I suppose, since
the beginning of the world has loved, or
thought she loved, some young man,' I

answered, ' but fortunately they have not
all thought it necessary to behave as you
have done, Elisabeth. "What in heaven's
name was your motive in running away in
this indecent haste, instead of remaining
with your grandmother and marring with
her permission  if to marry this young
fellow you are determined.'

Grandmamma would never have given
her permission,' she answered, in her impassive
voice, ' and I do not know what
you mean by indecent haste. I cannot remember
the time that I did not know
Dino. I had never existed before.'

Nonsense,' I cried, losing patience at
this iteration of her favourite phrase, ' or
if it is trie, so much the worse for you, my
dear. What, you have lived for twenty-one
years in the world and have tried todo
your duty, as I hope, to God and your
fellow-creatures  for, upon my word, until
yesterday I gave you credit for being a

good girl  and you tell me that you never
existed before ? Do duty and natural
affection and the simple and honest affections
of youth count for nothing, then, in
life ?'

She did not answer, but her face took
the look that I o\ai had the power to provoke
me, the look that maintained the
superior wisdom of her youth over the experience
of my age. I recovered my
temper, however. Dino Morelli might at
any moment return ; the minutes were
precious.

My dear,' I said, gravely, ' all this is
not what I came to say. I am here asa
lessen-er from your grandmother. She
is almost broken-hearted by this step you
have taken.'

Oh, you are wrong,' she answered
gently, ' grand mamma will not care at all.
She vdYL not like my marrying Dino ; that
is why I have left her. But that is all.'

VOL. II. T

That is not all,' I said ; ' your grandmother
has for you the warmest, the
most devoted affection  though it may bean
affection you have not understood, since
it proceeds from one of the purest and simplest
and most unselfish hearts that ever
existed. You  and you yourself best
know how much you have deserved it 
were the treasure of her life, the great blessing
2; as she has told me aoain and ao;ain that
God had sent to comfort her old age.'

She looked at me, but I could not see
that my words had moved her in the least.
I went on quickly.

I believe,' I said, ' that you have, in
fact, to some extent deserved that affection.
If you have had no love to give your
grandmother, you have at least given her
duty. You have tended her, I know, read to
her, tried to fulfil her wishes. You yourself,
the first time I saw you, told me so,
did you not?'

'Yes,' she said, mechanically, ' I thought
it was right  I want to do what is right.'

Yes, yes, I know you do,' I said ;
 you are a good girl ; I have always said
so. Yes, I remember you had a good deal
to say about that the first time we talked
together ; about doing right, and self-sacrifice,
and so on. Well, here is your opportunity.'


Her eyes dilated, but she did not
speak.

I saw Lady Margaret last night,' I Event
on ; ' she had sent to me in the desperate
grief and trouble caused by your letter. I
stayed with her for five minutes only ; she
could hardly speak, she would have had
no strength for a longer interview. She
had the look of one who had received a
death-blow, and it had been dealt by your
hand. I should not expect to see her
alive again, but that I promised to follow
and bring you back. If I return alone,

T 2

she will not survive the shock, I am convinced.
Elisabeth, you mil not refuse to
come ?'

You don't know what you ask,' she
cried, putting out her hands.  I refuse ;
yes, I refuse.'

'I don't know what I ask?' I said. ' I
ask you to return to a parent who
loves you, whose life your culpable folly
has endangered, whose existence hangs on
the hope of seeing you again ; and I don't
know what I ask ? Set matters at the
worst ; say that 1 demand of you the
sacrifice of what at this moment you hold
dearest in life ; what then ? Of each one
among us some such sacrifice is demanded
at times ; and he is noblest who gives most
willingly.'

She turned very pale, and began to
tremble. A look of fear came into her face.

Come,' I said, solemnly, touching her
cold hand, ' I do not speak lightly, my

dear ; and if I demand a sacrifice, it is not
without reason. If your grandmother dies
you A\dll have killed her no less surely than
if your own hand had given the death-stroke.'


She turned her face to me, the look of
terror groaning more intense as her eyes
met mine. At that moment, a gay
whistle was heard outside, and a springing
footstep mounting the staircase two or
three steps at a time.

Dino !' she cried. AVith a swift movement
she passed me, and throwing herself
into his arms as he appeared on the threshold,
hid her face on his shoulder. Her
movement arrested him ; he clasped her
tightly to his breast, and looking round
his glance encountered mine. 'What is the
meaning of this ?' he said, fiercely, ' what
do you intend by this intrusion T

I intend no intrusion,' I answered,
and with you, Signor Morelli, I have

nothing to do one way or another. I am
here to fetch Miss St. Just to her grandmother,
who is dying.'

He looked at me for a moment with an
angry gaze, but made no answer ; I am
not sure that he even took in the sense
of what I said. Turning to Elisabeth, he
began gently to caress her hair, murmuring
some words the while in a low voice.
She did not speak in reply, she clung to
him more convulsively ; till her hold relaxing,
her arms fell at her side, she
sank back into a chair. He went and
stood opposite to her, holding out his
hands.

Lisa !' he said, softly.

She looked up, their eyes met, and she put
her hands into his. A smile came to her lips
as she gazed at him ; they had forgotten
my presence in each other, and for the first
time I understood howfair my goddaughter's
face could be. Shall I own it ? As those

two beautiful young heads leaned towards
each other, a rush of sjTiipathy came over
me ; of sympathy with love and youth
and joy, the fire of youth, its divine joy.
Yes, I could have found it in me to pass
quietly from the room, to close the door
behind me, to leave the two alone in the
sunlight of their love. But with the
thought came the memory of my own
young days and of Lady Margaret; and
my heart hardened as I looked towards
them again. For that moment's space
neither had stirred ; but now Morelli,
stooping down, lifted her hands as though
to raise her from her seat.

We must go, my beloved,' he said,
the carriage is waiting.'

Her face changed, and took the expression
of terror it had worn but a
minute before. She looked round at me.
I came forward, and addressed the young
Italian.

Pardon me if I interfere nth your
arrangements,' I said, ' but I am come
expressly to take Miss St. Just back to
Florence.'

Lie vdW not consent,' he cried, turning;
on me, ' nothing; can come between us
now  nothing. Is it not so ?' he said, with
a softened voice to Elisabeth. She had
risen, and was trembling from head to foot.
He put his arm round her and drew her
gently towards the door. ' Come, my
beloved,' he said again.

Elisabeth !' I said.

She stopped and turned her face towards
me.

What do you want, oh, what do you
want ?' she said, clasping and unclasping
her hands.

Signor Morelli,' I said, ' listen to
reason. Miss St. Just's abrupt departure
from Florence has given Lady Margaret a
shock from which there is little hope of

recovery except by the return of her
granddaughter. Allow Miss St. Just to
return with me now ; you can follow her
later, and make your own representations to
her grandmother.'

I don't believe a word of it,' he cried,
with fury, 'it is a made-up story to separate
us. You yourself told me her family
would never consent to our marriage ; and
if she were to leave me now, I swear by
heaven I would never forgive her.'

He turned to her, his eyes blazing under
his dark eyebrows. She had dropped
af]ain into the chair, and was sitting; with
her face hidden in her hands. His look
melted ; he knelt down and put his
arms about her. She moved her hands
and placing them on his shoulder, let her
face fall upon them. He looked at me in
triumph.

'You see?' he said. 'Nothing can
separate us now.'

You mean then,' I said, slowly, ' that
Miss St. Just should henceforth go through
life nth the weight of an irreparable sinon
her soul, the sin of a parent's death.
Elisabeth, is that your meaning?'

She shivered "without speaking. For a
minute longer she sat motionless ; then
with a sudden movement, a sort of austere
passion, characteristic as it was strange,
she lifted her head and kissed the shoulder
it had rested on aoain and ao;ain. Risings,
she turned to me. Her face was quite
calm, but it was like the face of the dead.

I Yl[l go with you, Dr. Somers,' she
said.

By heaven, you shall not,' cried
Morelli, springing to his feet. Something
flashed in his hand ; I caught him by the
wrist as he rushed towards her, and
wrenching a knife from him, flung it to
the furthest corner of the room. It was
only an ordinary clasp-knife, but it had a

blade three inches long. He turned upon
me with violence ; but Elisabeth quietly
picking up the knife, held it out to him.

End it so,' she said, ' it dll be best so.
Life in any case is ended for me.'

For a moment he looked at her uncertainly
; then dashing aside her hand and
the knife together, he caught her like a
whirlwind in his arms, in an embrace so
close and passionate, that I thought breath
and life would fail her together. Releasing
her by a movement as sudden, he fell before
her on his knees, seizing her hands, and holding
them tightly pressed against his breast.
The tears rushed to his eyes-come,'

he said, * for God's sake, Lisa,
come; don't play me false. Come, my
beloved.'

He tried to draw her forward again.
She did not speak in answer ; she had
hardly spoken throughout. But the
colour died entirely out of her face, she

withdrew one hand and putting it behind
her, involuntarily caught at my arm for
support. The movement seemed to stab
the young fellow to the heart. He bounded
up, his teeth set, his face pale almost asher
own.

You will not come ?' he said, ' then I
swear by heaven and earth and the powers
of hell below, I will never forgive you 
never.'

The next moment he was gone.

CHAPTER YI.

On a day in spring, about a year later, I
was seated in a train between Genoa and
Pisa. I was on my way to Florence again,
and again with a view to seeing Lady
Margaret and my goddaughter. Lady
Margaret had lived, but she had never
recovered from the illness that followed
Elisabeth's flight. Even more than before
she was now a frail and shattered old
woman, creeping from one health-resort
to another ; striving vainly, by the advice
of oue physician and another, to warm and
brighten the expiring embers of her life.
Of my goddaughter I knew nothing, but
that she remained with Lady Margaret.

My old friend wrote to me occasionally,
but only a few quavering words, hardly
legible at times in her trembling handwriting'.
One of these missives had
reached me not long before. ' We again
spend May in Florence this year,' she
wrote, ' do you not think of paying your
annual visit to Italy? It would be a
pleasure to see you once more before I die.
Elisabeth is good to me as always, but I
am very much alone.'

On one of the first days in May then, I
found myself nearing Pisa, admiring with
an admiration that has never yet grown
weaker, the sweet and jocund aspect of
the Italian land in the Italian May, the
dancing, vine-wreathed trees, the plains
green with corn and grey nth olives,
against the colouring at once delicate and
austere of the sunlit background of hills.
I was alone, with the exception of a priest
seated in the further corner of the carriage,

reading this breviary ; a figure and
an occupation too ordinary to attract more
than a passing attention. Presently, however,
he closed his book ; and after gazing
a minute from the window, rose, and moving
down the compartment, took the seat
opposite mine. Then something familiar
in his movement and in his face struck
me ; with a profound astonishment I recognised
Dino Morelli. And yet to this day
I marvel at the recognition, so great was
the change, not merely in costume but in
countenance. The beaming expansive
look which had won my heart when I first
met the young fellow in the gallery of the
Uffizi, was gone ; his downcast eyes
seemed to have grown smaller; certain
lines, and not pleasant ones, had worn
themselves about his mouth and bi-ow, the
lines drawn when the hard, narrow egotism
of age begins to supplant the egotistic
but generous passions of youth, and

which never bear so hard a meaniiiir as
when seen on a face that has still something
of freshness and bloom. He smiled
and bowed, however, when he saw that I
recognised him, and with the charming
Italian smile some of his former charm of
countenance returned.

I knew you at once,' he said, ' when
you entered the carriage ; but I saw you
did not know me.'

Well," I said, ' I imagine that the
last twelvemonth has made less change in
my appearance than in yours. The last
thing I should have expected from what
I knew of you formerly, is to find you in
your present dress.'

He opened his lips to speak, but
changed this mind apparently. What he
said finally was different, I imagine, from
his first intention.

I must not,' he said with a smile,
expect, I suppose, a minister of your

persuasion to sympathise cordially with
the step I have taken. But as a student
of human nature, you can hardly fail to
understand the possibility of mental
revolutions that may entirely reverse a
man's point of view, and place him in a
wholly new attitude towards himself and
the universe.'

Yes, yes,' I said, ' I am pretty well
used to the vagaries of human nature by
this time. And how about your art ? For
you had a good deal to say about that
when T last had the pleasure of your acquaintance.'


Naturally,' he said, folding his hands
and casting down his eyes, ' the serious
and absorbing duties of my present office
leave me no time for any other occupation.'


I sat looking at him for a while in
silence. As is natural, perhaps, I am not
fond of priests as a class, though I have

VOL. ir. u

met with some excellent good ones ; and
something about this young man struck
me as unreal and disagreeable. 1 had
often thought of him since the day we
parted at Leghorn, and wondered what
had become of him ; and now, in spite of
his priestly garb, I believed that he was
no more a priest at heart than he had been
when he expounded his views on the subject
of the priesthood on our walk home from
the Uffizi. He was the first to speak
again.

You are going to Florence, I presume
?' he said, in a tone of courteous
inquiry.

That is my destination,' I replied.

To see your goddaughter. Miss St.
Just, perhaps,' he went on, in the same
tone. ' I understand that she is there.'

And how, in the name of all that
ought not to concern you, do you know
that ?' I said to myself. ' And what does

it matter to you now ?' But I only replied,
' You are perfectly right. I amon
my way to Florence to see my old
friend Lady Margaret St. Just and her
granddaughter. '

He was silent for a minute, then fixed
his eyes on mine. ' I have a request to
make,' he said ; ' when you see Miss St.
Just, and should she happen to mention
my name, may I beg you to say nothing
to her concerning my present life ? It is
possible she may not have heard of the
step I have taken. I could wish that for
the present it should remain unknown to
her.'

What now ?' I cried. ' What have
you to do nov with Miss St. Just, or what
need is there for any affectation of mystery
between you ? You have separated yourself
from her definitively ; and I own that
with the dress you now wear and the
creed that you profess, it surprises me

u2

to hear you even mention her name. '

We were approaching Pisa, where we
were to change trains. He rose, and took
his travelling-bag from the netting overhead.


1 have, at least, no desire,' he said,
with his downcast eyes, ' to discuss that
lady nth you or with anyone else. For
the rest, Signor Somers, in consideration
of the past, I should have thought I had a
claim upon you for at least some slight
favour.'

I was taken aback. Yes, I suppose in
this young fellow's opinion I had worked
him all the harm of which I was capable.
Well, well,' I said, relenting ; reflecting
too that nothing was less likely than that
my taciturn goddaughter should bring forward
the subject.

'Oh, I insist upon nothing,' he said,
very frigidly; and the train stopping at
that moment, he ceremoniously raised his

hat, and left the carriage. I lost sight of
him during the half-hour's delay, and
when we moved out of the station, I was
doubtful whether he had remained behind,
or whether he were in a different carriage
of the train from myself.

I went the following day to the Lung'
Arno hotel, where my old friend occupied
the same apartment as in the previous
year. I timed my visit to suit her old
habits, to find her after her afternoon
drive ; but her old habits were changed, I
found. She was able to go out very little,
so she presently told me ; sometimes she
did not even leave her room for nearly a
week at a time. She spoke in a very
gentle voice, sinking now and then into
almost a whisper ; our interview was nota
long one ; she had no strength for many
words. Something she said to me of the
death she felt fast approaching ; something
she asked of me and I said to her, of the

eternal consolations of vliich I have often
had occasion to speak, but never to a
purer, sweeter, more loving soul. At last
she spoke of Elisabeth.

She is out now,' she said ; ' come in
again. Dr. Somers, after dinner, and see
her. She spends much of her time alone,
poor child ; I am very rarely able to bear
much society in the evening. She has
been a good child to me ; all the better
that I see now, as my mind gets clearer on
some points, that she has no love to give
me. It might have been wiser had I
allowed her to marry that young Italian.
I fear I was very selfish.'

You selfish !' I said.

Yes,' she answered, ' we old people
are often very selfish in our demands upon
young lives. We forget that the joy their
youth and strength give us can mean very
little to them. Elisabeth has a nature
altogether different from her father's,' she

went on ; 'I did not understand it at first,
but I understand it now, though I do not
altogether understand her. Into, that I
never shall do," she said, nth a smile,
but I know how good she has been tome.
In this last year she has never left
me for a day ; and there has been no wish
of mine she could fulfil, that she has not
done her best to accomplish. I have been
very selfish, I fear, but it is too late to
change now. It will soon be over, and
then she will not repent, I know, that she
has done what she could for me. That is
my comfort.'

I presently left my old friend. Alas ! I
saw her no more. Only the next day she
became very much worse ; and three days
later she died, gently and peacefully as she
had lived.

I left her and went back to my own inn
to dine ; but after dinner I returned in the
hope of seeing my goddaughter. I was

shown into the little salon looking out
upon the Arno. The days were long now,
and it was still light ; but the weather was
close and stormy, and the sky was darkened
by black rain-clouds overhead, by heavy
cloud-layers to the west, below which the
sun sinking to the hills, illuminated the
city, its domes and towers and bridges,
with a brilliant partial gleam. Elisabeth
was standing nth her back to me at the
open window, gazing intently as it seemed
on the scene below, the river running dark
with gleaming reflections, the wet pavements,
the windows shining on the heights,
the passing carriages and carts catching
bright lights on every salient point of
harness as they crossed the bridges ; all in
the strange glow and darkness of the rain-laden,
sun-illumined sky. She was dressed
in white and held a book in her hand ; and
the light shining on her hair, turning
it to pale gold-colour, recalled to me, together

T\itli the suggestion of some impassive
mediaeval saint that always clung
to my strange goddaughter, the morning I
had gone to her in Leghorn. I had never
seen her since. I had remained, indeed,
long enough in Florence to assure myself
that Lady Margaret was out of danger ; but
Elisabeth, as was natural enough perhaps,
had shunned me. So I presumed, at least,
as she had remained invisible.

She turned now, as I advanced towards
her; and closing the window, gave me her
hand.

Grandm.amma told me you had come,'
she said, in the gentle indifferent voice
that I remembered. ' I was to expect you
this evening, she said.'

How are you, my dear ?' I inquired,
taking her hand, and studying her face by
the sunset light. It was strangely changed,
at once more and less beautiful ; less
beautiful because the first indefinable and

exquisite bloom of youth Alas gone ; the
outline was thinner and harder ; she was
pale, and her eyelids had a reddened look
as With tears or with long watching ; more
beautiful, because the immobility of expression
was gone also, though she tried
hard to preserve it beneath my gaze. Her
lips trembled a little, her eyes shifting uneasily,
met mine at last Yith. an eager,
questioning look ; a flush rose to her cheeks
and faded and rose again. This Alas not
the Elisabeth I had known a year ago, buta
much more breathing, human, sympathetic
being. I felt profoundly sorry for
her. Poor child, she had learnt something
of the meaning of life by this time.

How are you, my dear,' I said again.
*You are looking pale, do you know?
Your grandmother has been telling me of
all the goodness and attention you show
her ; but you must not overtax yourself.
That is the last thing she would desire.'

Oh, no,' she said, gently, ' there is
no fear of that. Grandmamma requires so
little done for her now, and always less.
Sometimes I see her for hardly more than
half-an-hour in the day.'

That must leave you very much
alone,' I said, ' you must find it dull, I
fear. Have you any friends in Florence ?
How do you pass your time ?'

'- 1 have no friends,' she answered, ' I
work a good deal ; I have always liked
needlework. I prefer to be alone.'

T glanced round the room and sav in
fact, a big basket, piled up with calico and
heavy woollen stuffs on the floor ; whilst
on the table lay some coarse, half-made
garment. Elisabeth was gazing again from
the window at the lights kindling on the
bridges and the quays, and the river flowing
golden now between its dark banks to
the far-off misty hills. All at once she
turned to me with joined hands as

ttLOUgh moved by an irresistible impulse.

Dr. Somers she said, ' can you tell me
anything of Dino Morelli ?'

Of Dino Morelli?' I said, taken
aback.

Oh, yes, of Dino,' she said, 'oh, is he
alive, or is he dead? I can bear either
if I only know. Oh, do you know?'

Certainly I believe he is alive,' I said,
in some confusion ; ' yes, I know it for a
fact. Do you mean you have heard nothing
of him ?'

Never since that day we parted at
Leghorn,' she said, letting her hands fall,
never a word ; not one word. At first
I hoped and hoped, and then I gave up
hoping. I thought at last he must be
dead ; but if he is alive, it is that he has
not forgiven me. No, he has never forgiven
me.'

Oh, he is alive,' I said, ' there's no
doubt about that. Not that I know

where he is at present,' I added, hastily.

Oh, it is no matter,' she answered ;
if he had forgiven me he would have
come to me long ago. He told me once
that he never forgave ; and this is how he
has revenged himself. And he is rio;ht ;
but I would rather he had killed me on
the spot ; then all would have been overlong
ago. Oh, it was wicked of me ;
Ancked to leave him. We were each
other's life, each other's soul ; if I had
murdered him and then myself, it would
not have been so bad. But 1 have thought
that God would forgive me, perhaps, and
then that he would also. I have done
penance, I have fasted, I would have gone
in sackcloth if I could ; but it has been
all of no avail, I know now that he will
never forgive me. And I deserve it.'

She raised her face with wild eyes to
the sky. As for me, some words I had
heard Dino Morelli speak the first day

that I met him, came back to my mind.
I can imagine two passions,' he had said,
satisfying one : love and revenge.' I laid
my hand on my goddaughter's shoulder.

My dear,' I said, ' yon look at this
matter wrongly. You were in the right
to return to your grandmother. Would
you indeed have cared to go through the
world with the possible guilt of her death
on your conscience ?'

Her face took a hard look. ' Grand-mamma
is dying,' she said, ' I have prolonged
her life a year ; it has not been a
happy one for her. And if of two crimes,
I had to choose one, I chose the greater.
Would to God Dino had killed me there ;
then he would perhaps have forgiven me.
Would to God I could go to him now.
But I cannot  I cannot, if he makes no
sign, though I would go to him on my
knees.'

I was about to answer  who shall say-how
? I had given no pledge to Dino
Morelli ; my goddaughter ought to know
the truth ; and yet I shrank from revealing
it. But I was about at least to bid
her put him for ever out of her mind,
when a knock came at the door, and a
hotel servant entered With a card on a
waiter. The sun had set in these last few
minutes ; the room within was darkening
fast ; and Elisabeth, mechanically advancing
to take the card, returned to the window
to read the name on it by the light
still lingering outside. It dropped from
her fingers to the ground.

'Dino!' she cried, with a mighty cry.

The servant had retired, and in his
place a dark form advanced slowly into
the shadows of the twilight room. The
girl rushed forward, and fell on her knees
before him in the middle of the floor, nth
outstretched arms.

Forgive me, Dino,' she cried, ' and
take me. 'I am yours.'
He drew back a step.
I am a priest lie said.

And what was the end ?' some one inquired
as Dr. Somers paused.

Ah, the end was sad,' he answered. ' I
saw my goddaughter only once again, and
for a few minutes only, on the day of her
grandmother's funeral ; and then, through
design on her part, I suspect, I was unable
to hold any conversation With her. The
day after, she disappeared, leaving absolutely
no trace. Some jewels that she
possessed, valuable ones, she took vdth
her; and two days previously she had
drawn a very considerable sum of money,
through a cheque on her London banker,
from one of the Florence banks. Those
were all the facts that were known ; but
when I learned, on inquiry, that Dino

Morelli had disappeared also, I found no
difficulty in filling up the sad blank. The
fugitives hid themselves well ; and of one
of the two nothing has ever been heard
since. But about five years ago I received
a letter from the Superior of a French
Canadian convent. It told me that, some
six months previously, a young woman,
broken in spirit and body alike, had presented
herself at their house, and had
begged to be sheltered among them. She
gave no account of herself, she would not
even reveal her true name ; but she handed
over to them what money she possessed,
and out of compassion they received her.
For a while she rallied a little to distinguish
herself by the austerity of her penitential
and religious observances ; then her
strength suddenly giving way, she died
after two days' illness, during which she
preserved the same unbroken silence concerning
her past. On examining her effects

VOL. II. X

after her death, nothing was found to lead
to her identification but an empty envelope
addressed to myself. The envelope was
enclosed in the Superior's letter ; I recognised
the handwriting ; it was Elisabeth's.
A lawyer was at once sent out to Canada ;
matters connected with her family and the
succession of her fortune, rendering it
essential that her death should, if possible,
be verified ; and the details he learned at
the convent removed any doubt, if such
had remained in my mind, as to the tragic
close of my goddaughter's life.

Had she intended to Avrite to me, and
then had strength or resolution failed her ?
I shall never know now ; but my heart
bled for her, not for the first time, poor
child, when I saw her writing again.'

Well, it was a singular character,' said
one of the party, after a pause. ' How do
you. Dr. Somers, explain it ?'

I don't explain it,' he said, ' and all

that I ever knew of her, I have told you.
But I imagine her to have been animated,
for good as for evil, by an immense
egotism ; and I imagine it the more readily
that experience has shown me for how
much egotism counts in the vagaries, both
good and bad, of us poor human beings.'

THE END

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, Blenheim H0IJ8K.

MESSRS. Hues AND Blackest

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF King ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled 'Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest of Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office."  St. James's Gazette.

"One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and Germans" Truif/i.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rote,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. SOs.

Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian q\iest\on."Athenceu7n.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly acquit
Mr. Boyle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding-S
James's Gazette.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles of Greenwich. By the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell :Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. ils.
"Under the title of 'The Palace and the Hospital,' Mr. L'L'Estrange has provided
for those who have a taste for topography, or rather for the historical and biographical
annals of a locality famous in history, two volumes which are rich in
romantic interest, and his pages abound in curious and interesting glimpses of
old manners'"  Daily Nets.

"Mr. L'L'Estrange's volumes will well repay perusal, and readers who may not
be well versed in English history will gather from them information, agreeably
told, as to many matters besides Greenwich Palace Hospital" Qiieen.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.
By sirs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With
Map of Route, los.
The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
Subjects" i/orninr Post.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Lite. By John Cord Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," ' A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many."  Morning Post.

"Mr. Jefferson's book has corrected in not a few cases errors committed by
previous biographers of Shelley, and he has produced fresh and interesting documentary
evidence bearing upon the poets career."  Graphic.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

'' Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout."  Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating" cojs/na??.

' This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit."  Morning Advertiser.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols 21s.
This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia  tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts" Sat urdai/ Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the

Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. "What

makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative

anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation

of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories."  Saturday Review.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev, A. G. L'L'Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention" Z)ai7i/ Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference
to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Leland). 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success."  Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family."  Graphic.

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin ad Progress.
By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With 150
Illustrations. Pigs.
Mr. Mason Jacksons learned and exhaustive work on the ' Pictorial Press,'
with its rare and curious illustrations, should be acquired and appreciatively consulted,
not only by those amateurs of the art, in the exercise, criticism, and bibliography
of which Mr. Jackson is so skilled a proficient, but by students of the
history of journalism."  G. A, S. in Illustrated London Heirs.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

WOFFINGTOX : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald molly, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With

Portrait. 21s.

"Peg WofBngton makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molly has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in

the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to res without

any of the dust and rust of times' G. A, S. in Illustrated London yeas.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
These volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Russia, Lithuania, and
Poland, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of
permanent value to the students of history."  Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Pirjs to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.L, F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through it
pages and its numerous illustrations."  Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, cro-n 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company"'  Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic."  Athenaeum.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy svo. 303.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and hia name deserves to live long in the
memory of his countrymen" 4A(euni.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, C.B-,

Author of " Griffin, Ahoy I" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15a.
"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Abuyl'
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation in
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote and these stories have a,
real touch of humour in them''  Globe.

GLIMPSES Op GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country" 5f. Ja/nes's Gazette.

"Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses' are lively and pleasant."  Academy.

These ' Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modem Greeks is well with reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays" Pa?Z Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. "With Portrait. 24:S.
"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Bamett, Mr. Hullah, lIr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes" Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de "Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subjects" Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a vide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the liie." British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance" <S. James's Gazette.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

Fifty-fifth EDITION FOR 1886

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as vrell as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary EoU of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged-families

of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland,

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged-alphabetical

List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood,

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book,"  Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the anhiecV Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day" Post.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME Crown Sto, 6s.

DONOVAN:

A Modern Englishman.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their times' Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high" Z)at7y Mws.

VE TVO.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident Times.

"' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker."  Athenaeum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thoughts' Scotsman.

IN THE alden JDASYS.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. Be always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold ones breath as one Tea.ds.'" Spectator.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background" GMarc/an.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters  the learned Cornelia especially ;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming ; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life" Academy.

' Won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale ; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families" freeman.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

LUCIA. By Mrs. Augustus Craven, Author of

A Sister's Story." Translated by Lady Herbert op Lea. 2 vols.

"This is a very pretty, touching, and consoling story. The tale is as much above
the ordinary romance as the fresh air of the seaside is better than the stifling atmosphere
of the fashionable quarter of the gayest city'"  St. James's Gazette,

'Lucia ' is as good a novel as has been published for a long time."  Academy.

A DIAMOND IN THE Enough. By Alice

O'Hanlon, Author of " The Unforseen," &c. 3 vols.
An admirable novel, which is throughout well constructed and well written,
which is good alike in character and incident, and which will be read with pleasure
by the critical few and the non-critical many."  Academy.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelin,

Author of " Queene," " A Jewel of a Girl," <tec. 3 vols.

' Love, the Pilgrim ' is a pretty story, which, beginning quietly, develops into
one of very sensational incident indeed."  Graphic.
"A tale of thrilling interest."  Scotsman.

THE FAVOURITE OF FORTUNE. By Ella

Curtis (Shirley Smith), Author of " All for Herself," " His Last
Stake." 3 vols.
' The Favourite of Fortune ' is an entertaining story, with distinct merit and
attractions."  Athenaeum.

' This novel is by far the best Miss Curtis has yet written, and it deserves success
; there is plenty of action and go, an abundance of incident, and a very well-constructed
plot."  Vanity Fair.

MARION'S MARRIED LIFE. By the Author of

"Anne Dysart," " Sir John," &c. 3 vols.
"This story is interesting, and told in an unaffected manner. It shows knowledge
of character, considerable descriptive power, and testifies to sound, wholesome
views of life."  St. James's Gazette.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

Snetd, Author of " Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
de\meat[on.''AtJienaum.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power  the story is
told with cleverness and force."  Scotsman.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols.

' Thro' Love and War ' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, veiled sarcasm, and broad fun,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity' TAe World.

We find, as we might expect from Miss Fanes past work, these three volumes
brimful of cynical and racy humour, yet not lacking in serious foundation."  Times.

SIR ROBERT SHIRLEY, BART. By John Berwick
Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," " The Tenth Earl,"
&c. 3 vols,
' Sir Robert Shirley, Bart,' is a thoroughly good story. The book is wholesome
in tone, and will please all those whose taste is not perverted by a too
Highly-spiced style of fiction.'  Morning Post.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

OUT OF THE GLOAMING. By E. J. Porter.

2 vols.

THE WOOING OF CATHERINE, and Other

Tales. By E. Frances Porter, Author of " My Little Lady," &c.

2 vols.

ST. Travels. By Mary Deane, Author of

Quatrefoil' &c. 3 vols.

The authoress throughout-writes with moderation and consistency, and her
three ample volumes-well repay perusal."  Daily Telegraph.

' St. Travels ' is a story replete with variety, and in all developments of her
plot the author skilfully maintains an unabated interests' Morning Post.

THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH. By F. AY.

Robinson, Authors of " Grandmother's Money"' " Xo Church," &c.

3 vols.

"One of the finest studies that any of our novelists has produced of late years.
To read such a book is to strengthen the soul with a moral tonic"  Athenaeum.

"The book is full of the truths and experiences of actual life, woven into a
romance by an undoubtedly clever novelist."  Morning Post.

"A capital book" J.ca(7e;y.

A LILY MAID. By William George Waters.

3 vols.
A story of the keenest interest. Mr. "Waters' plot is neat, and his style is
bright and pleasing. 'Z>aj7j/ Telegraph.

' A Lily Maid ' is throughout exceedingly pleasant re&diag."JIorning Post.

IN LETTERS OF GOLD. By Thomas St. E.

Hake. ~ vols.

"Mr. Hake does not indulge in padding, and never forgets that his first, and,
indeed, only business, is to tell a story" Athenaeum.

Mr. Hake has treated his subject with great breadth and thorough insight
into human nature, which stamps him as an accurate and skilful observer of
humanity."  Sunday Times.

THE POWER OF GOLD. By George Lambert.

2 vols.

The book is amusing" .If/jencram.

"' The Power of Gold ' is distinguished for skill in giving fresh interest to a
simple story, and the presentation of characters with real life about them"
Graphic.

THE BETRAYAL OF REUBEN HOLT. By

Barbara Lake. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
The novel, though slight in construction, has one very dramatic episode . and
this is well worked up to" Publishers' Circular.

LIKE LUCIFER. By Denzil Vane. 3 vols.

"There is some pleasant writing in 'Like Lucifer,' and the plot is workman-like'"
 Acade)7iy.

"Denzil Vane has a talent for lively, fluent writing, and a power of tracing
characters" Whitehall Review.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane

Stanley. 2 vols.
* A Daughter of the Gods' is very pretty. That is a description which specially
suits the easy-flowing, love-making atoTy.''AtheniTum.

3 0112 088987919
