CHAPTER I.

PAGE

THE "DANSE macabre" 1

CHAPTER II.

NUMERO TREIZE 26

CHAPTER III.

EXPLANATORY CONVERSATION . . . 48

CHAPTER IV.

A RETROSPECT 67

CHAPTER V.

STILL RETROSPECTIVE i)0

CHAPTER VI.

LOVE VERSUS CREED 112

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

IN THE YEW TREE WALK 129

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HOTEL DES ANGES , . 149

CHAPTER IX.

WHY DO YOU PLAY ? 163

CHAPTER X.

IN THE GARDENS OF THE CASINO 177

CHAPTER XI.

ENTER COLONEL CAZALETTE 192

CHAPTER XII.

NEW year's GREETINGS 206

CHAPTER XIII.

QUART POT TEA 232

CHAPTER XIV.

Transit



a tori? of fonte Carlo.

CHAPTER I.

THE "DANSE macabre."

It was the last day of the old year. Herein
Monaco, there was glorious sunshine, the
sky sapphire, the sea like an amethyst ; a
touch of mistral in the air, which set the
eucalyptus trees rustling and the palms waving,
enhancing the clearness of outline and vividness
of colouring, and bringing to all but the
hypochondriac and the invalid a sense of
freshness, buoyancy, and delight in mere animal
existence.

At three o'clock, however, there were but
few people on the terrace or in the garden
of the Casino. Most of the visitors at Monte
Carlo  except those inveterate gamblers to
whom the most dulcet melody could not equal
in attraction the whirring of the roulette cylinder
and the chink of gold  were assembled in
the theatre, where the afternoon concert of
instrumental music was in full progress.

The orchestra was playing the opening of
St. Seen's weird Danse Macabre, when George
Warrender entered the crowded room and
walked up the side gangway. Almost every
chair was occupied. A great many strangers
had come over from Nice and Mentone. The
programme was a medley of modern compositions,
even more attractive than that offered
upon the " classical Thursdays." Many musical
faces among the audience Adore a look of
luxurious enjoyment and calm expectancy of a
rich pleasure ; but at AVarrender's appearance

there were several backward glances of half
subdued annoyance, wbicli made him unwilling
to brush past till the piece was over. He
halted, and then drawing to one side waited,
standing by the closed doorway nearest to the
stage.

He was a noticeable figure against the gorgeous
but sombre background. A very tall man,
broad in proportion, with a look of alertness
and self-reliance, sallow cheeks, square forehead,
flexible characteristic lips, and a most
peculiar and touching expression of earnestness
in his brown steadfast eyes.

An Englishman of thirty or thereabouts, but
with something of a foreign look  Spanish,
Mexican, West Indian  one hardly knew
whether to ascribe it to nationality or long
sojourn in such distant parts, which faded upon
familiarity with the face, leaving only a doubt
as to what his calling in life might be. He
was evidently not a soldier, in spite of his

VOL. I. B

>

somewhat military bearing, nor a sporting
country gentleman, thongs his bronzed face
gave token of exposure to sun and wind,
while no one would for a moment suspect him
of being a mere idle pleasure seeker. He had
certainly followed some occupation or object
you fancied a little out of the beaten track
with the keenest interest. There was just
sufficient peculiarity and lack of self-consciousness
in his dress and air to suggest some absorbing
pursuit, and to give him the stamp
of travel in strange lands.

The Danse Macabre is a curious piece of
music. It is full of trouble and of wild,
almost repellent passion. Its burthen seems
to be of madness, despair, death ; its refrain,
an uncertain wail, broken by abrupt chords
and fantastic cadences.

At one period the violins send forth a
plaintive moan, resembling that of a lost
spirit in vain seeking rest ; at another, the

melody  dirge-like, mysterious, laden with
unutterable woe  thrills the ear ; and again
changes into a rapid measure, grotesquely
horrible, almost Satanic in its presentment
of unholy revelry. The music, in its wonderful
trap sit ions from the quaintly frolicsome
to the pathetic and morbidly terrible,
its complex developments and shifting phases
of beauty and almost discord, might be likened
to the phantasies of life itself. Perhaps no
composition is capable of exercising a more
subtle influence upon its hearer, more especially
in the case of a temperament strung
to sensibility, and labouring under conditions
of sorrow or mental excitement.

As the forces of Nature insensibly pave
the way for physical revolutions, so with
ourselves, certain crises in existence, brought
about by unrecognised agents, seem preceded
by a sense of doubt and expectancy, a feeling
of strangeness and awe, which cause the

B 2

most trifling events to appear momentous,
and an accident of conduct or surrounding
to be fraught with ominous import.

Thus with Warrender. He was disappointed,
unhappy, at variance with the world
and with himself. His melancholy was of
the kind which, weary of cherishing the
diseased offspring of morbid thought, craves
for distraction, and longs to throw off its
burdens ; not the deep-seated sort which absorbs
all outward accessories into its inward
weight of care. Reaction had set in. He
thirsted for the stimulus of an interest
against which his finer senses should not
rebel. His mood was plastic. A new impression
might now become an indelible imprint.
Passion once awakened, could not slumber
again. It unconsciously sought a new
object.

The condition of things favoured the birth
of fresh sensation. Is not the very name

Monte Carlo like a whiff of some intoxicating
draught ? Here may be found Nepenthe,
acting so subtly, that memory, instead of being
merged in blank oblivion, evokes visions of
the past from which the sting has departed,
but which, like the noblest creations of art,
are etherealised by a halo of melancholy. At
this moment, though the music seemed ina
manner to intensify his sadness, it aroused
exciting, nay, pleasurable anticipation. He
felt himself upon the brink of adventure.
Novelty, rebound after deep depression, vague
tumult, and an odd feeling of personal
remoteness, gave subdued charm to the
situation.

The dim stage, with its tiny star-like
lamps ; the bowed figures of the performers ;
the strange shapes of the instruments, seemed
no more real than a picture at which he
might have been abstractedly gazing. The
almost human crying of the violins and 'cells

sounded like some voice from a far country,
making: utterance in a Language unintelligible to
his faculties, yet powerfully affecting the spiritual
part of his nature. The sense of bewilderment
deepened within him and confused
his vision. The great room incrusted bv gilding,
with its glittering chandelier and floridly
ornamented ceiling ; the painted figures of
scantily-draped women contrasting with the
white uncanny masks sculptured here and thereupon
the walls ; the cosmopolitan audience,
every face of woman, man, and maid thrilling
the beholder with romantic speculation, each
one telling its own story of sin, sorrow, or
mere animal phlegm  the heated atmosphere
weighted with patchouli, frangipani, and cigar
smoke ; the faint murmur from the vestibule
bearing echoes of artificial mirth  all combined
to strike him with a phantasmagoric effect ;
so that the scene might have been a vision,
and existence a dream, in wliieli the weary

heart aching, ever present for weeks past, was
lulled or forgotten.

But the moment for drama had arrived.
Suddenly his nerves were strung to alertness.
His mind became clear of mists. Life was no
longer a dream or a spectacle seen through
dissolving clouds. A new and vivid consciousness
pervaded his being  its cause, the striking
profile of a lady, who, seated at the inner end
of a row of chairs upon the opposite side of the
theatre, drew his eyes as a magnet draws steel.

Warrender bent eagerly forward. His look
flashed intelligence. He moved his position
till no head intervened between his eyes and
the object of their regard.

The lady, lovely, disdainful, self-absorbed,
sat perfectly motionless in her corner, her gaze
absently fixed upon the orchestra.

Varuna I " exclaimed Warrender half aloud ;
then added, as though repenting the involuntary
familiarity. *' It is Madame Fan."

Though he had never before seen this woman
in the flesh, her photograph was well known to
him. Madame Fanoo was the half sister of
Helena Kilsyth, the girl he loved, whose refusal
to become his wife had driven him to Monte
Carlo in search of a moral opiate or counterirritant
to pain.

Near Madame Fanoo were two vacant chairs,
one in the line behind, at an angle with her
own ; by her side, another, which she retained
by covering it with her shawl. Warrender, as
soon as the music ceased, crossed over and took
possession of the former unappropriated place.

The Danse Macabre concluded the first part
of the programme, and was followed by the
usual rush back to the gains; rooms. Men
who had been sitting apparently wrapt in
dreamy enjoyment of the music, now glanced
round keenly, and rose as if awakened to a
sense of pressing business. A soft-eyed Italian,
who, from her refined features and inspired

expression, might have been the muse of poetry,
hastily gathered up her properties from the seat
which she had occupied immediately in front
of Warrender, and bustled down the narrow
gangway. The sounds from the Casino grew
louder as the heavy doors were swung open.
Soon the theatre was almost empty ; with few
exceptions, only representatives of the respectable
British element remaining. Though hardly
thus to be characterised, Madame Fanoo was
not lured from her place by the attractions of
roulette or trente et quarante. She maintained'
her immovabld'attitude in the corner, though the
people sitting next her quitted their places.

Thus it happened that she and Warrender
were left in solitary occupation of their respective
rows. For several minutes she remained
in the same position, and he had ample opportunity
for closely studying her features.

They were clearly cut, refined, and of almost
Grecian regularity  statuesque was the term

which best described the face. It was very cold,
even hard, when in repose, but it was the sort
of face that might be supposed to indicate the
capacity for strong feeling. Madame Fanoo looked
as though she had lived her life, so far intensely,
but had somehow missed the most thrilling
experience of womanhood. Her complexion
was pale though the lips were rosy ; the brows
delicately arched ; the hair brown with a reddish
lustre. Its smooth coils where surmounted by
a small velvet toque. She was dressed in black.
A tightly fitting mantle of some rich stuff
moulded her shapely shoulders. A diamond
brooch listened the lace at her throat. In her
bearing, dignity, listlessness and intense inward
pre-occupation blended curiously with an expression
of restrained eagerness. " Cold, egotistic,
passionless, " were the epithets which
arose at the first glance. " Impulsive, enthusiastic,
finely susceptible, " said the more prolonged
scrutiny.

Her gaze, ere it wandered to the entrance
door in search of the companion whom she
apparently expected, met that of Warrender
for a moment. Assuredly, in the photograph
which ornamented Helena Kilsyth's writing table,
scant justice had been done to Madame Fanoo's
eyes. But how inadequately, during the course
of half an hour's conversation, are conveyed the
subtleties of an expressive countenance ! What
an impossibility, therefore, that they should be
rendered in the brief space of time employed upon
a sun picture ! Here was presented food for a
thousand conjectures. Alas Madame Fanoo unhappy,
or only yearning for happiness ? Had she
drunk the dregs of interest, or did she sigh for
the draught tantalisingly withheld ? Was she indifferent
to life, or was it that life seemed to her
too momentous to be merged in these surface
frivolities ? What was the meaning of that
dangerous gleam agitating the dark depths ; and
why did an clement of fierceness combine with

a softness and dreamy tenderness which left
nothing to be desired in the matter of
womanly charm ?

The person for whom Madame Fanoo was waiting
had not yet appeared. It seemed to
Warrender that the grey orbs were darkened and
dilated by inward impatience. He still looked,
admired, and wondered. But now Yaruna's eyes
were removed from the entrance door ; and in the
withdrawal they again rested upon Surrender's
face. This time for longer. Her gaze seemed
compelling, and forced his imagination into fresh
play. It was deliberate, questioning, yet also, at
once regal and wistful. It might have been that
of a queen, mentally appraising the will and
ability of a subject to do her bidding ; or it might
have been that of a woman in difficulty or distress
who fancied that in a stranger's face she discovered
signs of the Sympathy and aid she needed.
Involuntarily, and as if in answer to her appeal,
Warrender made a slight motion forward. Then,

for an instant, the faintest blush rose upon
Madame Fanoo's pale cheek. Her lashes drooped ;
her lips curved in an expression of disdain. She
half rose as though with the intention of leaving
her place, appeared to hesitate, at last subsided
into her corner with eyes steadily averted. Thus
for some moments she remained.

Suddenly in an eager undertone, he heard her
murmur a single word.

Treize, "

The syllable seemed to fall unconsciously from
her lips, and to startle her as though it had been
uttered by another person. Was it he himself
who had spoken ? He almost imagined so for a
second, when he saw her turn, and noted the inquiring
flash of her eyes which accompanied the
gesture. Her weary indifference had vanished.
It was as if she had been awakened from reverie
by a voice she knew. Again she repeated low,
but clearly,

'' Treizey

Now she grew restless. Her hands, which
had been lying motionless, fidgeted with the
fastening of her cloak. Presently she drew off
her glove, and took from an inner pocket one of
those cases common at Monte Carlo, made to
contain a certain amount of gold. She emptied
out the coins, carefully counted and replaced them,
and for a minute appeared lost in calculation.

People were re-entering the concert-room.
The musicians had returned and were arranging
their instruments. There was a rustle of silk
by Warrender's side ; and a lady whom he also
recognised from having seen her portrait, swept
past him and seated herself in the chair which
Madame Fanoo had been reserving.

Even had he been unaware of any relationship,
the likeness between the two would have
told him that they were mother and daughter.
Their features were almost identical, but Mrs.
Kilsyth did not possess that air of dignity and
self-restraint which was noticeable in Madame

Fanoo. Her smile was infantine and uncertain ;
she had a quick, almost frightened way of
changing the direction of her gaze ; her dress
was careless in spite of its richness ; her lips
were but half-closed, and belied a certain intensity,
which made her eyes remarkable. She
was restless in her movements, and neither her
countenance nor her limbs appeared ever to be
in a state of repose, except when she became, as
it were, conscious of something to be guarded
against in her demeanour, and compelled her
features into an expression of almost unnatural
quietude.

She bent excitedly towards Madame Fanoo,
and whispered loudly enough for Warrender to
hear the words distinctly :

** They were playing the Danse Macahre a
few minutes ago ? "
'eyes, mother."

Mrs. Kilsyth sank upon the seat next her
daughter and gazed dejectedly into vacancy.

*' I came to the door intending to join you,"
she went on in an agitated voice. " But when
I heard that music I was obliged to go away
again. Do you remember the last time they
played it here ? De Kenzi was the conductor.
Cazalette sat yonder. I can see his eyes now as
they watched you. There are faces which haunt
one, and his could not be forgotten. That was
five years ago."

You are wandering, mother. They have
performed that piece many times since ! "

But I have not heard it. I have watched the
programmes, and upon such occasions have
avoided this part of the Casino. That night the
very air seemed heavy with something imminent.
It was all madness, fever, tumult ! Don't look
at me so strangely. The bare recollection of
some things excites me. You know what Dr.
Frederick Holt said, when he put me in his great
chair, and looked me through and through,
Madam, your temperament is your curse.' Oh,

that I were one of those good and happy people
who eat, digest, and sleep ! Varuna, there is
something strange in the moral atmosphere today."


"You find it so '? " asked Madame Fanoo,
composedly. " I think that you are right.
Fate is hovering over us. The music has affected
me also. I remember the night you speak of.
It was the night but one before  before I gained
my freedom."

Hush ! " said Mrs. Kilsyth wildly, though still
almost in a whisper, 'you mustn't talk of
freedom, it's only slaves who speak of freedoms
course ive are free. But listen ! " she laid her
hand upon her daughter's arm, and continued
impressively, " Varuna, I am in despair. Your
dream last night was the whisper of a lying
prophet. One hundred and twenty times did I
stake on 34, the hundred and twenty-first, I had
the louis between my fingers  I knew that the
number was coming up ; but the hand of fatality

VOL. I. c

held my will. I could not lay the coin down.
You know how it is with me, the inspiration
comes, and with it a sort of numbness. I tried
the trente et quarante room. Fatality again !
I was simply playing against the tables. A
run of nineteen on black. And the Greek was
dealing ! Can you account for it ? I have
never yet known you dream falsely. You have
lost me ten thousand francs to-day."

'' The day is not yet finished," replied Madame
Fanoo calmly.

*' But my purse is empty. I dare not draw
again on Bernhardt 's. I can play no more unless
you will lend me a few napoleons."

No," said her daughter, sadly yet firmly.
Our bargain must be strictly kept. You are
too excitable, If I had once begun to lend you
stray napoleons, we should both have been
ruined long ago."

Mrs. Kilsyth held up her hands with a w41d,
dramatic gesture. " Oh, how cold you are !

how calculating ! You haven't the least warmth,
or spontaneity in you ! " she exclaimed in the
tone of one who utters lightly weighed reproaches.
" Great Heavens ! " she continued
rapidly and with gathering excitement. " To
think of all that I have sacrificed for you, while
you are blind, unconscious as a stone ! There's
a spell upon me. Just as I was about to stake
again, when, had I acted upon my inspiration
I should have recouped all my losses. Lord
Bretland came up and spoke to me. The devil
was in his tongue. ' Do you know that Cazalette
is to be here immediately ? ' he said. I faltered ;
the louis fell from my hand  then, ' Rien ne va
plus J It was the voice of destiny. My chance
was gone. Varuna, did you dream of Cazalette
last night ? "

Madame Fanoo started. Her face changed

o

perceptibly. "Mother," she whispered in her
sweet but incisive tones, " remember that tlicre
are people round us who do not understand your

c 2

strange way of talking. What do you mean ?
Is Cazalette coming here ? "

Next week. Lord Bretland saw him in
Paris. He inquired if we were at Monte Carlo.
Yaruna, let us leave this place for a time. Let
us go to Cannes, Florence, Eome  anywhere that
would not mean stagnation. I am tired. I have
los-t so much of late, my nerves are out of order.
I want change of scene and occupation. We will
come back when Cazalette has gone, and bring
luck with us. Then I can pay him my debts."

You owe him money '? " exclaimed Yaruna.

Oh a trifle. Don't speak of it. But that
man is the herald of misfortune, I am certain
that some calamity will happen to us if we stay
here."

AYe cannot leave Monte Carlo now, mother,
I have strong; reasons', for wishing; to remain.
You refused to winter in Eome, when I auro-ed
it not long ago  and now  it is too late. Why
do you want to avoid Cazalette ? "

Mrs. Kilsyth did not answer.

Madame Fanoo looked at the elder lady keenly,
inquiringly. " Mother," said she in a whisper,
but not so low as to be inaudible to Warrender,
who was also able to note the deep sadness of
her manner, " it would be the blind leading the
blind were I to take you away from Monte
Carlo. We are like creatures who can only
inhabit one element. We both want to escape
from ourselves. Where can we do that so
effectually as here ? And just now, I could not
live anywhere else." She spoke vehemently,
then continued more gently, "It is not for me
to tell you that if your nerves are shaken, the
fault is partly your own. You should not be
afraid of wakeful nights. They are terrible ; do
I not know that ? But not more terrible than
the price you pay for drug-bought sleep. In
this state of mind and body your brain conjures
up phantoms ; your dread of Colonel Cazalctte
is one of them. I have more cause than you to

shrink from the past, of which he reminds me.
But see, / do not flinch. Granted that he hasa
sort of evil fascination over weak women ; let
us stand firm and defy him. We will go back
to the roulette room, mother. Have some faith
in me still. You shall see me put my inspiration
to the test."

Is it a number ? " asked Mrs. Kilsyth
eagerly. " The tables are bewitched. You are
safe in trusting the wildest fancy. But I
beseech you, Varuna, do not run the risk of
staking with your own hand. Have you no
lovers here to-day ? Where is Alec Fordham ?
Or there is Wrentzel "

Varuna's lips curled. " That was a half-hearted
adoration. To-day he is the Princess
Titchakoff's shadow."

*' Then St. George  surely there was never
man more attracted. But for the last few days,
Varuna, you have been unlike yourself."

Madame Fanoo made no reply to this

observation. The band was playing a crisp,
precise gavotte, by Corelb, a passionless piece
of harmony, full of quaint roulades, delicate
appoggiaturas, and carefully premeditated affectations.
At its conclusion both ladies left their
places ; and Warrender, full of curiosity and
amazement, followed them to the Roulette
Salle.

N U M E R T R E I Z E.

In the second gaming-room the crowd was at
its height. The atmosphere was fetid. The
heavy ornamentation and Moorish tracery on
walls and ceiling seemed dulled with the haze
of human breath. For pervading sounds there
were the subdued hum of voices, the tramp of
feet upon the parquet, the chink of coin, the
whirling of the cylinder and rattling of the
marble, all melting into a low indefinite roar,
broken at intervals by the level calls of the
croupiers.

Nowhere than at Monte Carlo does the
social sea present a more glassy surface.
There is something grotesque and revolting in

this outward serenity. It resembles the deadly
quietude of a beast lying in wait, or the
treacherous smoothness of a quicksand when
it has closed over its prey.

Whatever horrors teem below, the uninitiated
observer beholds only stoical indifference or
light frivolity  a show in which the performers
seem actuated by no more intense purpose
than aimless search for amusement, or the
thrall of habit which has become boredom.
It needs the magnifying glass of a vivified
consciousness to show forth the greed, sensuality,
unappeasable craving for stimulus to
jaded sensation, depravity of spirit, and deep
despair, concealed under tense muscles, painted
cheeks, and artificial smiles.

All this was but vaguely felt by Warren der :
the scene bewildered him, while he was yet
sensible of a faint feeling of disappointment.
If here life were at high pressure, the tragedy
masked itself by an affectation of phlegm. He

had not been long enough at Monte Carlo to
have become habituated to the strange concentration
of interest which compelled this
vast assemblage into one narrow groove of
occupation too momentous for any outward
show of excitement. The scene seemed to
him an apt illustration of destiny in its
operations upon the tide of human affairs. It
affected him somewhat in the same manner as
the sight of an Eastern opium den, in which
all, drugged into unnatural calm, in respective
stages of uneasiness or beatitude, tread an
imaginary path leading to a fictitious goal of
bliss, and are indifferent to every actuality of
life save the poisoned influence of the hour.

Lines three or four deep, of almost every
variety of the social creature, pressed thickly
round the roulette table. The outer rows,
English principally, had come over from Nice
or Mentone, salving conscience by the pretext
of music, and taking pleasure in the reflection

that they were now in a position to moralise
from personal observation upon the debasing
effects of legalised gambling. These were for
the most part spectators, except when now
and then a more frisky matron or adventurous
miss laid down a five-franc piece upon
the even chance, and watched the result with
an anxiety and pantomimic show of satisfaction
or disappointment, as the coin was raked up
or doubled, which contrasted curiously with
the imperturbable demeanour of those in the
inner circle to whom loss or gain meant
perhaps the serious question of existence.
Here, jostling each other, were representatives
of every type and nationality. A Russian
prince flung down his notes royally upon the
colours side by side with a fresh-faced Oxonian,
who ruefully beheld one small pile after
another swept away from the dozens. An
English countess, the patrician calm of her
delicate face marred by an expression of

unlovely triumph, gathered in her winnings
over the shoulders of a be-rouged, bejewelled
hag, whose bony fingers were in their turn
occupied in a judicious placing of louis upon
various numbers. An innocent fair-haired girl,
leaning over her husband's chair, touched
shoulders with a Parisian beauty of doubtful
reputation. A so-called " great lady," florid of
face, broad of proportions, in a tight-fitting cloth
costume, and with a well-stuffed reticule at her
belt, imperiously directed the lean, sallow-faced,
high-bred looking man who accompanied her,
where to lay the notes which she lavishly
supplied. Seated before her, the lowest type
of sharper  unshorn, unkempt, haggard, and
blear-eyed  carefully pricked his card, playing
cautiously and pocketing a fair proportion of
his gains, while he threw an occasional glance
of contempt towards an emaciated, worn-out
libertine opposite, whose trembling hands and
reckless play indicated the stage of desperation.

Here, a member of the so-called Fraternity of
St. Vincent che Paul watched his opportunity
to pick up and cherish any foundling stake
left exposed by the carelessness of its owner.
There, a withered crone begged boldly for a
five-franc piece wherewith to try her luck for
the' price of a dinner and a night's lodging.
The lady appealed to, whom Warrender perceived
at once to be Mrs. Kilsyth, took out
her purse. It contained a single coin. This
she placed in the claw-like hand, adding a
word of gratuitous advice.

"Try the first dozen. Low numbers are
coming up." Then she turned to her daughter
and said in her inconsequent manner, " Poor
suffering humanity ! Who could refuse to give
a wretched woman five francs ; but my
generosity has robbed me of my only chance
of beardinjx fortune this evening."

Madame Fanoo was silently and intently
watching the game. The withdrawal from the

table of a now penniless gambler created a
rift in the crowd and brought Warrender to
her side. Without moving a muscle, she
seemed to become aware of his proximity, and,
after a moment, turned directly upon him that
glance of inquiry which had startled him in
the theatre. He was certain that she meant
to speak to him ; and so strongly had she
seized upon his thoughts, that the evident
intention awakened in him no surprise. For
an instant she hesitated ; then, in silvery
neutral tones, addressed him in French :

Would Monsieur have the great kindness
to place this stake upon numero treizef

She held towards him a rouleau of gold. It
was the maximum allowed upon any single
number.

AVarrender replied in English, with (X)ld politeness
: " With pleasure, madame," and was
stretching forth his arm, when Mrs. Kilsyth
interposed :

' Not this moment. Let my poor specimen
of humanity have her chance. One would not
beggar oneself in charity and nullify the gift.
There," as the number was proclaimed. " Five.
I felt certain she would win. If I had staked
that coin myself, fifteen, twenty, or anything
else over the dozen would certainly have
turned up. Well, there is consolation in
the thought that I have done a kindness to
one even more unfortunate than myself." She
heaved a deep sigh.

Now," said Madame Fanoo, pointing towards
the table.

Warrender leaned forward and put down the
gold as he had been directed. There was a
faint murmur among the players, and several
pairs of eyes wandered round till they rested
upon Madame Fanoo's face. AVarrender observed
that three or four altered their stakes. He
knew instinctively that Varuna's gaze was fixed
not upon the table but upon himself An

intense excitement caused his pulses to tingle.
The moment had become dramatic. He felt
that he was the instrument of fate.

The wheel revolved, the ball rattled into its
compartment. *' Rien ne va plus'' vas uttered
in the croupier's automatic monotone  a moment
 " Treize. Noir, Impair et Manque."

Many eyes turned again towards Varuna.
She was still looking at Warrender, and stood
perfectly quiet, very pale, and with lips tightly
pressed together. She did not appear embarrassed
by the attention she excited. Three
or four of the players smiled significantly,
shrugged their shoulders, and became again
absorbed in calculation, while several of those
standing watched her with quickened interest,
evidently prepared, should she continue playing,
to follow her lead. Her cool venture seemed to
betoken invincible luck, or an infallible system
which placed her alcove the sport of chance.

Warrender waited while louis and five-franc

pieces were being meted variously to the coins
scattered upon the cloth. A swift, penetrating
suggestion turned him hot. He was ashamed
of his agitation  ashamed of the pleasurable
triumph with which he placed a little mass of
gold and several crisp notes in Madame Fanoo's
hand. He had fancied that a smile at least,
would reward his success. But, to his disappointment,
she bestowed upon him no such
mark of gratitude. Her eyes did not even
meet his, as in a few formal phrases she
expressed her cold thanks. With a stately
bow, she moved away, and after a few
moments he saw both mother and daughter
pass out into the vestibule.

Presumably, they had quitted the Casino.
Warrender lingered for a short time, not playing,
for strangely enough, he felt no inclination
to back further his own or Madame Fanoo's
luck. But her shadow lingered near him. The

manner in which she influenced his imagination
VOL. I. D

was unaccountable, yet a fact impossible to
ignore. The other men and women in the
room were no more to him than a crowd of
lifeless, painted automatons. She alone seemed
of flesh and blood. She alone stimulated his
faculties.

Nevertheless, the inward debate which she
aroused was by no means to her advantage.
Unfamiliar as he was with the type she might
be supposed to represent, he had always held
the vice of gambling in abhorrence. How
much more so when exhibited in the person
of a woman  in that of Helena Kils}h's
sister I Could he imagine Helena herself breathing
the corrupt atmosphere which surrounded
the roulette table ? He shuddered at the
thought. And yet he had heard her speak
of her mother in terms almost of adoration
-  of her sister with the warmest enthusiasm.

He was obliged to admit that Madame Fanoo's
bearing and style of beauty were at total

variance with the life she seemed to be leading.
Was it to be supposed that she was a mere
slave to her mother's passion for gambling *?
No. The conversation he had overheard proved
that she shared the propensity, and also that
both were victims to the most dcOTadino-
superstition. Had Varuna's augury been based
upon a dream of the night before, upon -a
conjunction of dates, or upon the ticket which
had been handed her in lieu of her umbrella ?
Or  and he remembered the enigmatical look
which had been turned upon him  was it
possible that he himself was connected with
her inspiration, and that some fateful presentiment
had prompted the choice of him asher
deputy ? Her mode of addressing him
forbade the supposition that she recognised
him from hearsay or description as her sister's
friend ; and however unconventional might
have l)een her conduct, her haughty dismissal
showed plainly that she repented the action,

D 2

and was aware that it might lay her open to
misconstruction.

With his mind still full of these thoughts,
he too left the gaming rooms. Upon the steps
leading down to the square, he was accosted
by a very pretty, very stylishly- dressed, 
young lady, to whom an acquaintance
of his own  a good-looking man,
elderly, well got up, and blending in his person
the stamps of Bohemianism and fashion  was
devoting himself with languid relish.

"Well, Mr. Warrender," said the lady, "and
who would have dreamed of seeing you in
this naughty place ? How long have you
been here ? "

"About two hours," replied Warrender, returning
the greeting, it must be confessed
with some doubt as to the identity of his
interlocutor. But it was dispelled by her next
words.

When last I heard of you, you were

supposed to be excavating buried cities in
Peru  oh, Mexico ? Thank you, Lord Bretland,
I knew that it had something do with
Prescott and Pizarro ; but, as you have more
than once remarked, we Australians are apt
to be a little casual. That is because of the
immensity of the country, you know : it
affects our ideas. Still, for a barbarian, join
must admit that I am teachable."

'' For a barbarian, your taste in dress, and
your appreciation of the niceties of advanced
civilisation, are something quite  quite extraordinary,"
observed Lord Bretland, in his dry,
halting manner, which gave the impression of
a vast fund of thought that it was undesirable
to communicate.

The young lady laughed, and met Warren der's
look of vogue interrogation with a quizzical
smile.

Now, confess that you don't in the least
know who I am. I'll give you three guesses

at my name, the penalty to be paid in
twelve-button gloves, six and a quarter, mind,
and Swedish kid "  she held up her slim,
daintily cased hands. " In the meantime,
while you are cudgelling your memory, we'll
take a turn in the Gardens, for even my
passion for roulette won't enable me to endure
the atmosphere of the Casino for more than
half-an-hour straight ofiV

Does your vanity, Miss Crosbie, allow you
to suppose that my memory requires stimulation
? " asked Warrender with somewhat forced
gallantry. " I have the most vivid recollection
of a picnic in Ullagong Scrub, and of the
kneading of a damper on a sheet of bark
by those very fingers. Upon a former occasion,
when I had the pleasure of seeing
you, you were haranguing your father's
electors upon the advantages they would
derive from supporting the Dead Lock system ;
and the time before that you were eood

enough to give me lessons in playing the
Jews-harp."

Oh, spare me the shame of all these
reminiscences. Civilisation has done wonders
for me. My husband began my education
in Australia. Lord Bretland is continuing
it at Monte Carlo. There, you have lost
your bet, Mr. Warrender. Did you imagine
that I was following the example of your
American friends, and travelling round Europe
all on my own hook ? If you will come and
dine with me this evening at the Hotel des
Anges  and, by the way, you'll see a good many
angels there, only I'm afraid some of them
have fallen from the starry spheres  I'll
introduce you to General Featherstone, and,
to some one much more attractive, if you
haven't already made her acquaintance."

'' Ah, yes, that I can answer for," said
Lord Bretland. " Not half-an-hour ago I saw
Warrender lay down the maximum on numero

treize, and hand Madame Fanoo the winnings.
You hadn't your eyes about you, Mrs.
Featherstone."

Well, if I was blind, some one else used
their eyes  and to considerable purpose ! I
must say that you haven't wasted any time,
Mr. Warrender. But I advise you not to be
too reckless. Do you know that Madame
Fanoo is called the Vampire ? Ghoulish, isn't
it ? But her uncanniness lies in her conduct
rather than in her person, as no doubt you
have discovered for yourself."

I have discovered nothing," replied Warrender
 but though he spoke stiffly, there was an
inflection of eagerness in his voice, which
Mrs. Featherstone was quick to notice  " except
that Madame Fanoo is a very charmino-lookino-
lady, whose greatest peculiarity appears to be
that of liking to play roulette at an inconveniently
crowded table, and to whom my lonT arm
was of some slight service this afternoon."

A peculiarity which a good many people
here share," said Mrs. Featherstone. " Come,
I don't believe in all this haphazard business.
You had better make a clean breast of
everything, Mr. Warrender, or confess at once
that this is not the first time you have staked
for Madame Fanoo."

"It is perfectly true, Mrs. Featherstone,
that I have never seen Madame Fanoo before
to-day," said Warrender coldly.

By the way," interrupted Lord Bretland,
"you will remember our meeting at the
Kilsyths' ? We went with the Abbey party to
the Militia Ball at Hallingford in July. You
must have been as horrified as I was, to
hear of poor old Sir John's death."

Sir John Kilsyth dead ! " echoed Warrender,
pausing suddenly, his face pale and
disturbed. " What do you mean ? I have
heard nothing of it. You know that I left
England three months ago  rather more, 1

believe. I have been in the back woods of
America out of reach of newspapers."

"Then, where have you turned up from
now k

From Paris ; I was one night in England.
Tell me when did this happen, and how."

His horse rolled over him in the hunting-field
the first run of the season, two months
ago. Poor old Sir John ! A bit of a Puritan,
and not equal to marching with the times  -
but what a splendid old fellow he was ! It
is a sad thing for his niece, though I am
told that she always resented not having
been placed under her mother's guardianship.
Mrs. Kilsyth has her turn now. Well, I
hope that Miss Helena will not develop the
family mania."

AVarrender was silent. A rush of painful
thought and bitter recollections effaced the
vivid impressions of the last few hours. Once
more his mind was filled with the image of

Helena Kilsyth. Serene, pure, majestic, to
associate her with these surroundings seemed
profanation. Her name choked him. What
right had he to show any anxiety ? He was too
proud, too self-conscious to ask questions which
might betray the wound she had inflicted.
He turned abruptly to Mrs. Featherstone 
You were speaking of Madame Fanoo ? "
Perhaps I had better profit by that little
hint, and discreetly hold my tongue, since you
appear to be on terms of intimacy with her
sister. Lord Bretland, your diplomacy has
been rather thrown away. Mr. Warrender and
I are old friends, and don't need to stand
on ceremony with each other. What is the
mystery ? Is he going to marry Miss Kilsyth,
or was his great-aunt a distant cousin of
Monsieur Fanoo's grandmother ? By the way I
hear that Colonel Cazalette is to appear in the
scene shortly ; I mean to ask him how Madame
Fanoo disposed of a troublesome encumbrance.

I am convinced that he is in all Mrs. Kilsyth's
secrets, for the old lady becomes more mad in
manner than is even her wont whenever his
name is mentioned. I am not at all satisfied
that Monsieur Fanoo himself mixed his night
draught. An overdose of morphia is such an
easy way of accounting for sudden death."

Lord Bretland laughed a little awkwardly.

Ah, ye-es  do you think so ? " he said in
his negative interrogative fashion. *' It would
take a great deal to kill Mrs. Kilsyth. I've
seen her swallow half a bottle-full of laudanum
straight off  fact, I assure you. She is a little
queer at times. I have always accounted for
it in that way."

Mrs. Featherstone looked steadily at
Warrender with her audacious blue eyes.

You see, I haven't spent two winters at
Monte Carlo for nothing. That's the worst of
this place ; it upsets all one's nice notions about
human nature. No one is mildly wicked here."

Is it insinuated that poor Madame Fanoo
poisoned her husband ? " asked Warrender.
The biography of this lady promises to be
interesting. Pray continue, Mrs. Featherstone.
My acquaintance with Miss Kilsyth does not
entitle me to become the champion of her
family."

Well, let us sit down," said Mrs. Feather-stone,
placing herself upon a bench, and
indicating by a slight motion of her arm that
there was room for Warrender at her side.
Did you ever see such a glorious evening
? The colouring of the water reminds
me of Sydney Harbour, and I declare,
these lank, sickly gum-trees make me feel quite
sentimental."

EXPLANATORY Conversation.

Never had the small principality presented
a more fascinating aspect. The sun was sinking
behind the glittering domes and spires of the
Casino. The tiny peninsula lay sleeping on
the sea's bosom ; and far to the south that
mystic Mediterranean, scarcely touched by an
horizon line, blended almost imperceptibly with
the sky. Higher, lay a golden lake dotted
with soft islets of* purple ; and, higher still,
dark, billowy masses of cloud crested by foamy
splashes. On the east, a faint, flame-like glow
spread over land and water, shrouding the
hills above i\lentone in a rosy haze. The

nearer heights of Mont Age and Mont Bataille
rose, seamed and barren, above the olive
woods at their base, making a sombre background
to gaily ornamented villas and
semi-tropical gardens ; while just below their
summits the white Cornice ]road-wound in
zig-zag fashion towards Koquebrune, a sun-illuminated
patch which seemed to have slipped
down from the rocks above.

"Madame Fanoo is as much a feature of
Monaco as the Tete du Chien or the palace of
the Grimaldi," continued the pretty Australian.
'' Yonder villa," pointing to a fanciful minaret
building embowered in olives nd j)ls,
which from where they sat was visible to
the left of the gardens, " belongs to Mrs.
Kilsyth ; but at the present time it is being
refrained or redecorated, so that the two
ladies are among the angels at our hotel. As
they are a source of profit to the landlord,
and of entertainment to the inmates, no one

is particularly anxious that the villa should
be in a state for occupation."

Has Mrs. Kilsyth been long a widow ? "
asked Warrender absently. " But, of course,
I remember. Who was she "? "

Oh, if it is a question of genealogy, you
must go to Lord Bretland. My acquaintance
with Debrett and Burke is still in an elementary
stage. Lord Bretland, who was Mrs.
Kilsyth?"

*' She was  a widow," slowly returned Lord
Bretland.

So we naturally conclude. But widows
are not brought into the world ready made.
Who was Madame Fanoo's father 1 "

He was, according to tradition, an Eastern
scholar. His origin is shrouded in obscurity ;
but it has been said that he belonged to the
tribe of Israel. He wrote a book about the
Vedic Mythology, and died before he had had
the happiness of beholding the infant face of

Madame Fanoo, whom, in tribute to his memory,
his disconsolate widow named after the Vedic
god Varuna, not taking into account the
consideration of sex."

Very clearly stated," said Mrs. Featherstone.
Anyhow, it is a satisfaction to feel that one's
mind is being improved. I wasn't acquainted
with the gentleman called Yaruna. The Vedic
gods aren't much known in the bush. Go on,
Lord Bretland ; Mrs. Kilsyth's biography ought
to be worth hearing."

 Yes, I think so, especially if one could hear
it from her own lips. Mrs. Kilsyth is so candid,
and so communicative about most things, not
everything  her antecedents, for instance. Overheard
it said that she is of South American
origin, and I have been told that her father is
in a madhouse. I can give a bald outline of
her story, and that is all, Mrs. Featherstone.
The interesting widow of the Eastern savant
devoted herself to the education of her dato-liter,

VOL. I. E

-oc\ty of

and to the investigation of systems at Homburg
and Baden  systems for discovering the secrets
of numbers. She wasn't always successful.
The air of a Kursaal is unhealthy. Miss
Varuna fell ill ; had to be taken to the Engadine,
where, alas ! were no gaming-houses. But weare
told that for a short time love may be as
potent a source of excitement as gambling ; and
Passion, Superstition, and Hysteria form three
sides of a moral triangle. Reginald Kilsyth
was at the Chalet at Pontresina. You, Warrender,
at any rate, know something about the Kilsyth
history, or ought to do so, since your palace
adjoins Hallingford."

'rit is a fact," replied Warrender, " that I
knew almost nothing about the place or its
surroundings till I took possession a few
months ago. Then my stay was a short one,
and Sir John Kilsyth never talked of his
brother."

And pray remember that I only came over

from Australia two years ago' interjected Mrs.
Featherstone.

Lord Bretland turned towards her. " There
are in the family two properties and two
religions. Marelands goes with the title. That
branch has been Protestant, I might almost say
Puritan, since the days of Cromwell. Callings
Abbey descended for generations in a
younger and Roman Catholic branch, till, failing
other heirs, estates and religions were joined in
the person of old Sir William, the father of the
late baronet and of the Reginald we are talking
of. He would have been glad enough to do
away with distinctions of faith, but, "oddly
enough, Regie became imbued with the traditions
of the place, turned pervert of his own accord,
and, when he inherited the Abbey, was as rabid
a Roman Catholic as you could find in Rome 
or in England, which is saying more. There
was even a talk of his joining the priesthood.
However, our fascinating friend settled that.

E 2

The dear widow became suddenly inspired with
an enthusiasm for romance and religion. She
sighed for the innocent and domestic joys of
life. She sighed for spiritual consolations. For
some time the gaming-rooms knew her not. She
turned Catholic also, or might have been so
before, for all I know, and Kilsyth married
her."

Lord Bretland paused under the somewhat
embarrassing consciousness that he was speaking
energetically, and had allowed himself to become
dramatic. His fishy eyes shot a gleam of
animation upon his listeners. Both appeared
profoundly interested. Mrs. Featherstone gave
a little eager nod, and smiled quizzically.
' That must have been a long' time aoo ? "
Lord Bretland shook his head mournfully.
*eye-es. Ah, Mrs. Featherstone, you have entrapped
me into a confession of my age.
Eighteen years ago I was a young man, and I
also was staying at Pontresina."

Well," said Mrs. Featherstone decidedly,
I am not at all surprised that your friend did
not become a priest. Setting aside her beauty
and I'm pretty sure that must have been
considerable, if at five-and-twenty Mrs. Kilsyth
was as talkative, as inconsequent, and as amusing
as I find her at fifty  she must have been
simply irresistible."

"At all events," continued Lord Bretland,
Eegie Kilsyth never quite fell out of love
with his wife, though he very soon became
aware of her absolute agreeableness. It was
quite pretty to hear him making excuses for her
eccentricities. He got into the way of treating
her as a spoiled child, and of considering her
as little accountable for her actions. On the
whole, he resigned himself to the inevitable
with a fairly good grace, and was rather amused
by her vagaries. Mental equilibrium isn't the
least necessary to make a woman beloved. The
more kaleidoscopic she is, the greater her charm.

It's wonderful what a trick of manner will
do!"

I quite agree with you," retorted Mrs,
Featherstone, " when one sees the sort of
women who make the greatest fools of men."

Well, to return to poor Mrs. Kilsyth ;
English life did not suit her excitable temperament.
A course of waters at Homburg
every year became perfectly necessary for her
health. The confessional lost its attraction.
Out of sheer perversity she apostatised, and
took a plunge into atheism by way of variety."

But I must say," interrupted the Australian
lady, 'that Mrs. Kilsyth is now quite a fervent
Catholic. She does not play in Passion Week ;
and I never saw any one look a greater picture
of misery."

"Mrs. Kilsyth has passed through many
phases of spiritual experience. Religion is
Colonel Cazalette's foible, and it was he who
some time later brought her baclv to the bosom

of the Church. But Kilsyth felt her falling
away deeply. Folly, even the milder forms of
vice, he could pardon readily, but not disrespect
to his creed. This, his will, made about that
very time, proved. At his death, which happened
about ten years after the marriage, it
was found that he had left the whole of his
property to Helena on the condition that she
was brought up a strict Roman Catholic, and
had appointed his brother her guardian. Mrs.
Kilsyth's natural rights were barely recognised,
and only in the event of Sir John dying after
Miss Helena had attained the age of eighteen,
would she be permitted to live with her mother,
while Mrs. Kilsyth's jointure was so tied up in
the hands of trustees that the heirs of Monsieur
Blanc have happily only reaped the benefit of
her yearly income."

And Madame Fanoo ? " asked Warrender.

** Varuna, who during these years had resided
under her stepfather s roof, was naturally not

mentioned in his will. She and Mrs. Kilsyth

left England together. Dear old Sir John

hated his sister-in-law as much as it was in his

native to hate any woman, and was rejoiced to

be quit of her. You can imagine the scene.

The little oriel, Helena, clinging with tears

and entreaties to her mother, who had always

a most extraordinary fascination for this child

of another breed ; Varuna cold and disdainful ;

Mrs. Kilsyth frantic, tearing her passions to

tatters  a tigress robbed of her young. Poor

lady ! if her emotions are undisciplined and

evanescent they are certainly genuine  for a

short time at least. '

Lord Bretland, " interrupted Mrs. Feather-stone,
" are you a victim to Mrs. Kilsyth's
elderly charms, that you insist upon analysing
her virtues and peculiarities so exhaustively ?
Don't you see it is the daughter in whom Mr.
Warrender feels so deep an interest l "

"Varuna Fanoo's story is a tragedy of Monte

Carlo, " said Lord Bretland gravely. "'* Mother
and daughter took up their abode here, and fell
in with a queer set. At seventeen Varuna was
married in Nice to a good-looking, coarse, dissipated
brute, for whose conduct there was but
one excuse  a depraved appetite for opium. He
was found one morning dead from an overdose
of morphia ; and the kindest action which he
ever performed towards his wretched wife was
when he left her a widow, penniless, and burdened
with an idiot child. The suicide was
never very clearly proved, but Fanoo had been
losing heavily, and the administration did all
they could to hush up the affair. "

Lord Bretland ceased speaking. There was a
pause. Warrender made no comment upon the
strange history that he had heard, but biting the
end of his moustache gazed vacantly seaward.
Presently, Lord Bretland, all dramatic intonation
gone from his voice, listlessly remarked
that they were transgressing the canons of the

Eiviera in lingering after the sunset chill ; and
Mrs. Featherstone rose with a clinking of her
bangles and a rustle of her satin skirts.

Come, Mr. Warrender, you are going to dine
with us, and be introduced to my husband. I
can't promise you a place beside the enchantress ;
but I'll invite you to meet her in our salon at
11.30 this evening to drink punch and to seethe
new year in. Where are you going to
stay ? "

I believe that my luggage has been sent to
the Hotel des Anges," answered "Warrender.

Mrs. Featherstone professed unbounded
pleasure at this information, and proceeded to
descant upon the excellence of the cuisine. As
they crossed towards the square a little group
approached, consisting of a lady, lean, well
dressed, of the bird-like aristocratic style' of feature,
who seemed the embodied essence of
British Philistinism ; a stout, red-faced, cheery-looking
German gentleman ; and a sallow?

melancholy visaged middle-aged man in whose
appearance were curiously combined the military
air with that of the dilettante, and who gave
the impression of making a continual effort to
reconcile himself with uncongenial circumstances.
That is my husband, " whispered the pretty
Australian. "Now, how shall I classify him?
There's a certain type of man one meets everywhere,
" she continued, as gravely as though she
were giving a lecture. " He is a ' fellow. ' All
his male friends are * fellows.' They are not
particularly clever, or artistic, or anything else ;
they're simply good fellows. Well, that is
exactly what my husband is not. I don't mean
to say that he is artistic  in the way of pictures
and china  or of the aesthetic tribe. Music is his
forte. He is trying to compose an opera, and
when he is not wrapped up in harmonies, he is
really decidedly entertaining. I must say," she
added, with her affected air of simplicity, " that
I prefer a man in his maturity. That is.

because I am so young. Do you think that I
shall et'cr be old enough to love a boy ? The
lady walking with him is one of the people atour
hotel. How much soap and hot water do
you think would be required to take the starch
out of her 1 Mrs. Livingstone, let me introduce
Mr. Warrender. Mr. Braunstein, have you
given Jules proper instructions about the punch
for our orgie this evening? My husband,
General Featherstone  Mr. Warrender."

In the confusion of introductions that took
place the party divided, and Warrender found
himself walking beside Lord Bretland.

It does not say much for the natural
resources of civilised beings, when one's brain
can be stimulated by the vapid nonsense that
is talked in a place like this, " remarked Lord
Bretland, who, after his fashion, was something
of a philosopher. " Here have I been
for the last two months, studying the world
compressed into the space of a few square

yards. Certainly I have the advantage of being
able to retire into my villa  where, by the way,
you must come and breakfast with me tomorrow
when the spectacle becomes too painful ; but
there is no doubt that the sight of all the
frivolity, exaggeration, hardened vice, and artificial
goads to sated senses, which are displayed
at Monte Carlo, is a liberal education. We live
our satires now-a-days, instead, of writing them.
One gets a bird's-eye view of the whole social
system here, and the absence of dividing fences
brings about a wideness of sympathy that mayor
may not be beneficial, but is at least enlightening.
You know the story of the Duchess

of , who, when one of the croupiers refused

to cash her cheque, imperiously asserted her
rank. * Madam,' said he with a bow, ' all
ladies are duchesses here ! ' "

Warrender made an impatient gesture.

The place may amuse you," he said ; "tome
it is absolutely sickening. There is no

stronger instance of the bad effect it may have
upon people born for nobler things than the
story you were telling a little while ago."

Poor Madame Fanoo ! You must not judge
of her entirely by what you hear. It is my
opinion that her unhappy marriage has petrified
her very soul. That woman possesses, I am
convinced, the strongest capacity for devotion
all expended in this vile passion for gambling.
They call her the' ' Vampire,' but not for the
reason you may perhaps suppose. I don't
believe that she has ever in her life unbent to
any man. She is passionless, inaccessible, and
pure as the edelweiss."

Yet why  why ? " began Warrender eagerly,
and paused.

Why do men follow her like a pack of fools,
and throw themselves down precipices in despair
at her coldness ? Because the attentions of a
certain great personage first of all made her the
fashion. Because her iciness piques curiosity

and excites ardour; and because she has a
superstitious fancy that it is impossible for her
to win at play unless her money is staked by a
man who loves her. Don't you see the connection
of ideas ? It is like that weird fairy
tale in which a magician rules the princess, and,
under penalty of death, propounds riddles to her
suitors. The lady's pleasure garden rattles with
human skeletons ; she herself is disdainful,
weary, wretched. She is under a spell, from
which but one can release her. So with Varuna.
Teach her to love, and the evil enchantment
will be broken."

"You are still half a poet, Bretland."
No  only an observer : but I am poetic
enough to cherish the belief that, for a woman,
the one potent god of the universe is Love. I
have my theories about Varuna. She is not
what she seems. That woman is the victim of
some secret dread, not of any definite enemy,
but of imprisoned forces within her own nature.

Some day they will burst their bonds, and she
will be changed. Here wee are at my diggings .
will you come in and have a sherry and bitters
before the table dote ? You will find it
amusing at the Des Anges, I often go there myself,
but to-night I have an engagement. We
shall meet later at the Casino."

Warrender declined the invitation. Instead
of proceeding to the hotel, however, he turned
again into the garden, and, seating himself upon
a bench facing the sea, gave himself up to
reverie. His thoughts wandered back several
years to the time of his first meeting with
Helena Kilsyth.

A RETROSPECT.

At twenty-four George Warrender was appointed
private secretary to the governor of one
of our most distant and lately formed colonies.

He was a second son, and this prospects in
life could not be called brilliant. The appointment
had been obtained for him through the
influence of his godfather  an eccentric, and,
to him, unknown gentleman  to whose notice
he had by some lucky chance been suddenly
recommended. Mr. Poynsett was unmarried
and wealthy. He expressed a wish to make
his godson's acquaintance, and invited George to
his place. Branches. Thither Warrender went

VOL. I. F

a few days before the date fixed for his
departure from England.

His host was a valetudinarian of sedentary
pursuits, who remained for the greater part
of the day shut up in his study. Warrender
liked being out of doors and was fond of
sport; but in April there was little or nothing
of that sort to keep him employed. His time
hung rather heavily upon his hands, and he
spent most of his days in aimless wandering
about the place.

The estate adjoining Branches was . called
Hallingford Abbey, and belonged to a Woman
Catholic family which had been lately enriched
by the discovery of coal upon the property. The
late owner had not long been dead, and it was
held in trust for the heiress, a little girl of ten.

These particulars Warrender learned incidentally
during his conversations with the
gardener at Branches. The subject had no
especial interest for him, except that he had

asked to see the house and permission had
been refused. He was, however, an enthusiastic
lover of nature ; and Hallingford Chase offered
him almost equal attractions. It was easy of
access and a pleasant resort on those spring
days  more so, now, he thought, than when in
the full glory of summer foliage.

He delighted in strolling through the grassy
rides where the young green mingled with the
withered brown, and where the dead leaves of
the year before made a crisp sound beneath his
feet. The hawthorn was putting forth its tender
shoots, and the hazel bushes were thickening
with green. The ground was spangled with
blue-bells and primroses, and the gentle wood-anemones
bent their graceful heads to a tiny
stream which trickled beneath overhanging
fronds of fern. The sunbeams quivered upon
violet studded beds of moss, where each dry
tendril was distinct, and which gave out the
delicious scent of woody earth.

F 2

It was intense enjoyment to lie idly dreaming
with eyes upraised to heaven's blue, or
piercing the mazy vista of interlacing boughs
and soft verdure. The wind soughed through
the budding branches overhead in long monotonous
swells, followed by sudden lulls, and
then the birds broke in with their chorus of
sweet cooing and inarticulate gurgling. There
was the pretty note of the yellow-hammer,
the trill and full chirrup of the chaffinch, the
too ivheej too vjhee of the thrush, and yet
another sound, not of wind or laird, which
seemed to proceed from a leafy hollow screened
by a small thicket of hazel and low bracken
fern, and which he knew dipped down abruptly
behind where he lay. In his present position
the interior was quite hidden from his view :
but the sound was unmistakable. It was that
of a child sobbing.

This was no ordinary paroxysm of infantile
grief. The sobs were deep and stifling as

though drawn upward from the very soul.
Every now and then they subsided for a few
moments, and then there arose a most pitiful cry
of "Mamma, mamma. Oh I want mamma."

'' Poor little thing!" said Warrender to himself.
Has she lost herself, I wonder ? Or is her
mother dead ? and if so, how can I comfort
her ? "

He got up and cautiously approached the
leafy thicket which fringed the upper edge of
the pit. He knew the spot. At his feet was
a rocky bank, shelving more gradually to his
right and left. On the other side the hollow
was open and stretched away in a lovely glade.
The floor was carpeted with moss and spring
flowers. Two or three Scotch firs clung to the
side of the little cliff. The grey stone was
overgrown with ivy, and here and there a
rough bench had been hewn.

On one of these a little girl was lying. Her
head was buried in her arms, but a mass of

fair hair fell over her shoulders. She could
not, he thought, be more than ten or eleven, and
her limbs were small for her age. Her slender
frame was convulsed with anguish, and still
at intervals she repeated the cry " Mamma,
mamma ! " Then for a few minutes she wept
silently. Presently she raised herself to a
sitting posture, and stretching forth her half
bare arms cried in a tone of despair 

Oh, I can't bear it. I'm so lonely. I want
my mamma. Why are they so cruel ? Why
won't they let me go to my mother ? "

After this outburst a sense of contrition
seemed to come over her. She folded her
hands devoutly, and repeated the simple
formula of her faith : " Oh, my God, because
Thou art so good I am very sorry that I have
sinned against Thee by my impatience and my
ingratitude." He could not see her face, but
watched and listened, deeply interested in her
words and gestures, which were at once so

childlike and so old. She was praying still,
but in lower tones. She besought the Blessed
Virgin to intercede for her mother and for
herself. She invoked her patron saint in the
quaint language of the Catholic ritual. Poor
child ! Nay, happy child ! To her the unseen
world was a living reality.

Her prayers seemed to soothe and pacify
her. "With a sorrowful but resigned air she
rose and walked away from the shadow of the
cliff. Pausing a few paces distant, she turned
and looked upward almost in his direction.
Thus she became fully visible to him. Never
had he beheld so mournful, so wistful a face.
The wonder seemed that a child so sensitive,
so fragile, could ever have been created and
sent forth to buffet with the world.

She was curiously, almost fantastically, dressed
in a manner which forbade the supposition
that she had been recently made an orphan
She wore a frock of dark crimson velvet,

quaintly cut, and adorned with deep lace at
the throat and wrists. Her golden hair
lay in little rings upon her forehead after the
fashion of an old picture. Her eyes had a
deep searching gaze inexpressibly sad, like that
of one haunted by an ever recurring memory.

So absorbed was Warrender in his observations
that he forgot to take any precautions
against startling her. An involuntary movement
of his foot sent a stone rolling: down
the steep incline, and attracting her attention
revealed his whereabouts. Her eyes met his,
and making a step forward he stood unconcealed,
raising his hat with a gesture of apology.

The expression of surprise which crossed
her face, and something stately and unconsciously
commanding in the air with which
she acknowledged his greeting, told him at
once that he was in the presence of the little
mistress of Hallingford.

He hurriedly descended the slope where it

was more gentle in its incline, and stood
bareheaded before her.

You have been watching me," said the
little girl flushing slightly. " Did you mean to
watch me ? What are you doing here ? People
are not allowed to walk in this wood unless
they are friends of my uncle." She paused
and eyed him, at first questioning, then, with
doubts as to his condition evidently dispelled,
she added, *you are a gentleman, are you
not ? "

Warrender's heart throbbed with pity and
interest ; he could not smile.

I hope so " he answered. " I don't know
your uncle ; but the person I am staying
with has permission to walk here."

*' What is his name ? " she asked with the
manner of a little princess.

"Mr. Poynsett."

She shook her head. " I never heard of
him ; and I have not seen you before ; but

I like your face. It reminds me of a picture
of Join the Baptist at Marelands. Will you
stay and talk to me for a little while ? You
look kind, and as though you could help
people to be happier. You wish to do so,
don't you?"

The grave directness of the child's gaze,
the pathetic quiver of her lips, and the old-fashioned
precision of her language, which
showed that she had lived much with grownup
people, moved Warrender exceedingly.
He obeyed her gesture of invitation, and
seated himself upon the stone bench she had
formerly occupied, while she leaned against
the wall of the little amphitheatre, with her
eyes never moving from his face. Her earnest
look seemed to demand a reply to her
question.

I wish with all my heart that I could
help you," he said. '' I heard you crying, and
that was why I stayed  because I wanted todo

anything I could to make you less miserable.
Tell me all about your trouble. I'm
only a stranger, but I'm very sorry for you."
She stretched forth her hand to him with that
childlike confidence which is so rarely deceived.
"My little girl," he went on "tell
me why you are so unhappy."

I want my mother," she answered with
inexpressible sadness. " She has gone away
and they will not let her come back tome."


Adhere is she ? "

In Italy, or France, I don't know which.
Hotel des Strangers, Nice, that is where they
live."

They ? " he repeated in a perplexed tone.

There is my sister too. She is a great deal
older than I am, and she is tall and like no one I
have ever seen, she is so beautiful. She did not
laugh and dance and sing like my mother, she
was grave and very fond of reading ; and she

was always good to me. I love her very
much."

Who will not let your mother come back to
you ? " he asked, greatly puzzled.

I don't know. No one here knows her
except uncle John, and he has told me that he
can't do anything, and does not want to talk of
her. It was because of something my father
wrote before he died  I can't tell what it means.
This used to be her home ; and now they say
that she has no right here, and that God is
angry with her because she will not pray or goto
church."

She is not a Catholic then ? "

She was so once ; oh I remember so well her
taking me into the chapel and making me kneel
before the altar, and I thought that she was
like Our Lady, only more beautiful, if that could
be. But Father Clifford says that she has been
led astray by evil counsel, and that I can only
pray for her forgiveness, and be patient till it

is granted. How shall I know ? Do you think
that she will ever be allowed to come back
here ? "

It is impossible for me to say," answered
Warrender. " Perhaps when you are older you
will go to her."

The child shook her head. ''No, I am always
to stay here, except when I am with uncle John
at Marelands. This place will belong to me
when I am twenty-one, then I can do as I
please. I shall have great power. The Church
will require much of me. This is what Father
Clifford says. If I marry and have children,
they must be Catholics ; and I must only marry
a Catholic."

Warrender smiled this time at the child's
naive statement. " You are  " he began, and
paused, not clearly remembering the name of
the little heiress.

I am Helena Kilsyth."

And have you no one at home ? " said

Warren cher  " no one to love you and take care
of you ? Are you allowed to wander alone in
the wood ? "

There are a great many people to take care
of me," said the child ; "but no one to love me
not as there used to be. They think I don't
see the difference because I say nothing ; but
one knows when one is loved. It is like something
in the air ; you feel it. Love is not
flattery or being allowed to do as you please.
Fratilein is very good ; but she is always a
little glad when Father Clifford takes me out,
or when she has a cold, as to-day, and can sit
by the fire and drink mulled beer, and do no
lessons. And when I ask her to let me come
into the wood, she says yes, because I fidget her
indoors, and the air is good for me ; and if I
promise not to go beyond call of Sophie I may
sit here by myself. So Sophie stays over therein
the avenue, she says I am quite safe as
long as I only come nere ; and people are not

allowed to walk in the wood without asking
leave."

Dear little Helena," said George, " I am
glad I came here to-day, if it is only because
I saw you in trouble. I think talking to me has
done you good already. Do you often cry in
that way, or were you specially unhappy ? "

I was so disappointed," murmured the child.
It must be because I am not good enough,"
she added dejectedly ; '' not because prayer is
of no use. I did pray so  with my whole
heart."

For what, my child ? "

"You know the stories of the saints?" He
did not dare answer in the negative lest her
confidence should be checked ; and she continued,
'* They came more often to children
than to grown up people, and it was generally
in woods and quiet places. All last night I lay
awake thinking of St. Lucy, and of how her
prayers for her mother had been answered ;

and oil ! " she cried fervently, clasping her
hands, " what is the body compared with the
soul?"

So you came here to-day hoping that one
of the saints would appear to you and assure
you that your prayers had been heard ? "

It would be so beautiful to think that my
guardian angel watched over my mother too,
and brought us near to each other. I should
find it easier then to have patience till I am
grown up ; and I should not be afraid, as I
often am, that before ten years are over my
mother will have forgotten me."

Oh, impossible !" cried Warrender. " Why
should you fear that ? You are allowed to
write to each other 1 "

' My mother does not often answer my
letters. It is because she loves me so much
that she does not wish to be reminded of me ;
thinking' of me makes her miserable  it makes

o

her ill. I ought not to want that she should

be unhappy, so when I write I say very little
of what is in my heart. Perhaps she thinks,
like the rest, that because I am a little girl I
forget easily. Oh if some one  who knew 
could tell me if it were right for us not to
think of each other ! That could not be. It
would be better if she were dead, for then
I could pray for her. "

The child's sobs broke forth again. She
struggled against them, but ineffectually.
Touched to the quick, and longing to give her
comfort, Warrender fondled and soothed her.
After a time she became calm, and looked up at
him with innocent affection. A child's trust is
so readily given. There are no conventional
barriers to be overleaped ere the inner sanctuary
can be gained.

My little Helena," said Warrender, '' I
don't know your mother or the reasons for
your separation from each other ; but I can
tell you what I think and feel, and what I

VOL. I. G

am sure is best for you. Our prayers are not
always answered as we expect. We pray for
something as if our life depended upon it, and
we are bitterly grieved because what wee long
for seems withheld :  but it may be coming tous
all the while in quite another form to the
one we hoped for."

A light broke over the child's face. " I
understand," she said ; " I wanted to see St.
Lucy, and instead, there came you."

No, I did not mean that. Tm afraid I can't
be of much use to you. I am going away
tomorrow."

Away ! " she repeated blankly. " Where ? "

To a place so far off that I don't think you
would know its name. I am going away from
my friends aud relations, and shall be almost as
lonely as you are. Don't you see, Helena,
it's a sort of law in this life that we can't be
with those we care for. If we had only our
bodies and there were nothing beyond seeing

and hearing, that would be terrible, but there's
something within us which can bridge over
seas, which can almost compel the one weare
thinking of to think of us in return.
That is love. And when it has been once felt it
can never die, it's just as real as we ourselves 
more real, for it will last after death. If a
common love is like that, what do you think
a mother's love must be ?  a mother's love
that is just a part of nature  a law in itself.
So, Helena, you must never stifle your
beautiful  fancies about your mother. They
are drawing her to you all the time ; and
you don't know the good you may be doing
her. Let her be your guardian saint. Love
her always, think of her, pray for her. Don't
ever fear that she will forget you, for that
is simply impossible. And remember that
what I say is true. Sympathy makes distance
and separation seem as nothing. You will
not be lonely when you are thinking of her

G 2

and looking forward to the day which shall
bring you together. Ten years is not such a
long time ; it will soon pass away. I know
parents in India who were obliged to send
their children from them, and did not see
them again till they were grown np. They
did not forget."

He paused. Helena had drawn closer to
him, and was now bending forward, looking up
at him, all her soul in her gaze. " Oh tell
me more, tell me more ! " she cried.

Pain and separation and silence are often
no one's fault," continued George "only part
of the crookedness of life. The world seems
sometimes like an ill-fitting piece of mosaic 
none of the pieces join, none of the colours
harmonise  or very seldom. We puzzle and
fret and can't make out the plan of it, or if
there is any phi at all. We are all like children
in that ; it is bard for us to accept the sadness
and mystery of life as a thing that must

be ; and we long blindly for what would not
be good for ns if it were given. So, my
poor little girl, you must not pray that
miracles may be done for you. Don't expect
that saints will come down from Heaven and
talk to you. God works in a better way. He
sends comfort through the living  and when
He makes you turn for sympathy to the people
around you, He is educating you and them,
for He is drawing forth love from their heart
and yours."

The child's eyes seemed to become larger and
more spiritual ; her lips were parted as if she
were drinking in every word that he uttered.
Warrender had been carried away by his own
simple eloquence. At that moment a shrill call
sounded in the distance, " Meet Helene, Meet
Helene ; it is time to go in." The child started
and rose to her feet. Warrender rose too.

That is Sophie," said Helena. " I promised
to go back as soon as she called me. Good-bye,

kind, kind man. I shall think of everything
you have said. I shall think of the bridge of
love, and I shall send my heart across it everyday,
every night, to meet my mother's heart.
Oh, yon have helped me ! You have been
good ! I will remember you too  always. Tell
me your name."

Warrender wrote his name upon a leaf in
his pocket-book and gave it to her. She spelled
out the syllables with childlike pains.

George AVar-render. Good-laye, George
Warrender. I wish you weren't going away.
I wish you lived near here. I hope that you
will not be very long. I will never forget you."

Warrender lifted the little hand and kissed
it with chivalrous tenderness.

'' Nor I you. But I should like very much
to know if, as time goes on, you become happier.
I am quite sure that you will do so ; but I
shall be wondering and it would give me
pleasure if some day you would \\Tite me a

little letter, and tell me that you are happier 
only that. Will you ? "

"Yes' replied Helena, "willingly. But tell
me where to write."

He wrote an address legibly upon the slip
of paper he had given her.

There ! That is not where I am going ;
but a letter will always be sent to me. And
by and by I shall come back again."

A gleam of joy irradiated the child's sorrowful
face. " Then perhaps I shall be grown up, and
able to do as I please at Hallingford. And
you will come and see me ? Promise me that
you will come and see me."

Indeed, I will promise that gladly," answered
Warrender ; and then, with a long, earnest look,
the child turned and left him.

STILL RETROSPECTIVE.

A GOOD many months later Warrender received
a letter directed in unformed handwriting, and
forwarded from the address he had given
Helena.

''My Dear George Warrender,

I write to you because I promised and
because I am really happier now. I did nut
write before because we went to Marelands.
Fraiilein went away, and another lady came who
loves me better, and I have to do a great many
lessons. But there is no wood here and no chapel
no real chapel. And there was nothing to
make me much happier except thinking of what

you said. John the Baptist is like you. Uncle
John was very kind, and had that picture put
into the little room at the top of the house,
which they have made into an oratory for Father
Clifford. It makes me remember your face.
My mother did not write to me for a long while.
My sister Yaruna was married ; and now her
husband is dead, and she has a little baby who
is sick, so my mother was very unhappy. Do
you remember what you said  that God sends
comfort by the living ? There was a kind good
gentleman where she lives. I think he must
be like you. Father Clifford says that it is
through him my prayers have been answered,
for now, my mother has come back to the
Church. It is he who showed her the way. I
am very happy. I never feel lonely when I
can think of my mother. At night I dream
of her ; and in the daytime I fancy that I
can see her face  so beautiful and good and
loving. Perhaps some day you will know her.

I have nothing more to tell you, except that
I will never forget you ; and I hope that you
will come back soon and that you will remember
your promise. Are you a Catholic like me ?
I want so to know. And are you rich ? I
don't think you can be or you would not have
gone away. If you are not rich I should like
to give you some of my money, half of it if
you please, for you helped me very much, and
I remain,

'' Your affectionate friend,

Helena Kilsyth."

Mr. Poynsett was dead and had left Branches
to George Warrender.

The young man was in Mexico when this
news reached him. He was in no haste to
return to Europe. His work was not done.
Research into the history of a bygone civilisation
absorbed his energies. He waited till he

had accomplished all the explorations possible
with his limited resources, and then set sail
for England, not with any strong feeling of
elation, bnt with a mild pleasure at the prospect
of seeing his own people again, and
distinct satisfaction in the thought that the
means were assured him for prosecuting his
favourite branch of discovery. He went home
first and stayed some weeks with his relations,
and it was more than a year before he took
possession of his new kingdom.

As he walked about the Branches estate,
renewing his acquaintance with servants who
only vaguely remembered him, and recognising
landmarks wliicli it could hardly be said were
familiar to him, the one incident, during his
short visit to the place years before, which
had seized upon his imagination, and had lain
deep in his memory ever since, now started
into new vividness.

He asked his old friend, the cardencr, if

Hallingford Abbey were inhabited, and if Miss
Kilsyth still lived with her uncle.

The old man nodded his head. " She be
bound to live with Sir John till she comes of
age. Miss Helena is a fine young lady, sir,
and will have a mort of money. It's a pity
she is so set upon her religion. But she is
kind to every one, Protestants and Papists
alike, and the poor are ready to jump for joy
when they hear the family is coming to
Hallingford. That's only once a year about,
for the shooting ; for Sir John, he likes the
hunting and Marelands as is natural, being his
own place. They are all at the Abbey now, sir ;
and Pm told there's company in the house."

Warrender strolled on towards the wood.
He thought of the promise he had made
the little girl, and wondered if she had
forgotten it, or if she connected the new
owner of Branches with her one day's friend.
He remembered the scene in the Chase as

though it had taken place but yesterday ;
the little girl's anguish of grief, her innocent
response to his appeal ; her simple superstition
if indeed it were superstition. Did she still
wander alone in woods, he thought, hoping that
a St. Lucy or a St. Helena would be sent from
Heaven in answer to her prayers to set straight
this tangled skein of life. He smiled to himself,
as, his vague intention becoming a purpose,
he stepped forth briskly to the Chase. All the
way his fancy played about her image, and
by the time he reached the dell he had conjured
up a very distinct vision of the grave,
pure-eyed child whose little hand he had
kissed so chivalrously at parting.

I wonder if she would think me like
John the Baptist now ! " he said to himself.
It was summer time, and the ground was no
longer gaily spangled, nor was there in the
air that wonderful sense of exhilaration which
is so often felt while walking in a wood

during spring. The grassy aisles were closed
in by dense foliage, the bracken fern grew
high. The leaves scarcely whispered to each
other, so still was the atmosphere. In the
shade there were mysterious depths of greenery.
Everything seemed very still. Occasionally a
startled hare would cross the path, or a young
pheasant would flutter among the undergrowth.
Now and then might be heard the
bell-like note of the cuckoo or the cooing of wood-pigeons
; but the birds had found their mates,
and the concert of trilling songsters was over.

According to the laws of romance, Helena,
the woman, should have been waiting by the
old grey stone embankment where Helena the
child had bidden Warren der farewell. Was it
possible that he had expected to see her, and
if not, Why did he feel a pang of disappointment
? No Helena was there. Everything
else was just as memory had pictured it, the ivy-grown
rocks, the rudely-hewn bench, the mossy

carpet, the Scotch firs ; the very thicket of
hazel, from the shelter of which he had been a
compassionate witness of the little heiress's grief.
He lingered a short while on the spot, again
speculating whether or not she had forgotten
him, and half inclined to at once put her
assurances to the test. But the dread of encountering
a large party deterred him. He
walked aimlessly down the glade, and at last
found himself on a cleared rise overlook ino-
the Abbey. It was a stately pile. The front
had evidently been rebuilt and modernised and
showed an extensive tract of lawn and pleasure-garden,
which again merged in a finely timbered
park, bordered on one side by the wood he had
quitted. The most interesting part of the
building lay in the rear, where remained the
original cloisters, quadrangle, and chapel. The
monks' refectory had been turned into offices
and the fishponds had been filled up. A long
narrow avenue of yews stretched at right angles

from the house, and formed a sombre but
picturesque background to an old-fashioned
garden, which in its turn was divided by a
low yew hedge from the gayer and more
elaborate parterre.

Warrender struck across the park, and presently
gained the yew tree avenue, scarcely considering
that this was not the proper approach
to the Abbey, or if he did so, reassuring himself
by the reflection that it would be easy to ask a
gardener for directions. A small iron gate admitted
him into the walk ; but so dense was the
shadow cast by these ancient trees, so gloomy,
silent and mysterious did the place appear in
contrast to the moving lights and gay verdure
without, that he felt as though he had stepped
out of the world of to-day into a region consecrated
to an austere past.

Here and there, were some remains of old
masonry, a monastic looking gateway, and a
crumbling wall which closed in one side of

the walk. Towards the centre there was a
break in the straight line of avenue ; the yew-trees
grew more irregularly, and here stood a
little covered platform, where was erected a
shrine with a marble image of the Virgin
crowned by fresh flowers, and apparently tended
by some loving hand. Warren der did not at
first perceive the pavilion, which was screened
by the branches of a yew-tree, projecting beyond
its companions. As he approached it, he
was surprised to find himself confronted by
a young lady.

She was standing upon the moss-grown
steps leading to the platform, and advanced
with a smile rather of politeness than of
welcome, evidently imagining the footsteps to
be those of a guest in the house ; but when
the first glance told her that this was a
stranger she seemed surprised, halted, and
looked again.

Warrendcr took ofi" his hat and she bowed

VOL. I. H

slightly ; then as they looked at each other
a curious light broke over her features. He
had no difficulty in recognising her. Her face
having been old for her years, had altered
very little. There was the same air of gentle
stateliness, the same candid brow and clear
sad gaze, the same expression of mingled
innocence and wistfulness, which had charmed
him in the child.

' Do you remember me ? " he asked
simply. " I am George Warrender."

She held out her hand to him with frank
pleasure. " Oh, I am glad to see you again.
I have never forgotten that day in the wood,
when you were so kind to me. I should
have known you, if only by your voice. So
you have kept your promise ? "

I hardly hoped that you would recollect
that, and welcome me ; but I was determined
to see for myself."

I remember a great many things about

you' answered Helena, blushing slightly ; " my
letter among them. I must have been a
very stupid little girl, Mr. Warrender  and
how you must have smiled at my foolishness !
I wanted to share my fortune with you, didn't
I ? " She laughed softly. " And now you
are the owner of Branches, and have come
to live near us. How strange it is ! We
only heard of your arrival yesterday. Uncle
John is so anxious to know you ; he rode
over to call upon you this morning. When
you go back, or rather, when you meet him
here  for you will stay to luncheon, won't
you!  you will find that he has left an
invitation for you to die here this evening."
It is very good of you. Miss Kilsyth, to
make me feel myself at home so quickly.
You know I am a stranger here in every sense.
I hardly knew Mr. Poynsett, though he was
my god father, and was never at Branches in
my life, except during that one visit when I

H 2

was so ill mannerly as to trespass upon your
property."

And you have been away ever since,"
said Helena. '' I hear that you have been in
Mexico, finding out those wonderful buried
cities ; you must tell me about them sometime.
But I think it much more strange that
you should recollect me, than I you. Besides,
I had your picture to remind me," and she
smiled. '' You are not so much like John
the Baptist now, except perhaps in this, that
you look as though you were very much in
earnest. There are some things in one's
childhood," she went on, "which stand out
much more vividly than others, though at
the time they don't seem important. I
suppose that in a kind of way, they are crises
in our inner lives. What happened afterwards
made me think much more of all that you
said that day."

"It is easy to read backwards by later

lights," said Warrender. 'but we only know
ourselves how it is, that some trivial occurrences
affect us deeply, and seem to set in
operation forces within ourselves which change

the current of life."

He honored to ask her to what event she

o

alluded, and if she had seen her mother during
these years, but did not venture to do so.
She saw and interpreted his hesitation.

You are wondering why I should have
taken your words so to heart. Did not my
letter tell you ? Don't you remember saying
that the love between mother and child could
never fail because it was a reality  a law
of nature ? You were right. It only needed
time to prove that truth. My mother and
I have never met since, nevertheless we seem
to grow nearer and nearer as years go on.
She is now a fervent Catholic. Think what a
bond that is between us, and how I can lean
upon her in thought, and model my life upon

what I believe hers to be. She writes to me
very often, never long letters but always loving
ones. She encourages me to tell her everything
that is in my mind ; to be with her and my
sister is the dream of my life. It will be
fulfilled some day."

You have still two or three years to
wait ? "

Yes, while they pass I remain of course
with my uncle, then I shall come to dear
old Hallingford and my mother and sister
will live with me. We shall be so happy all
together. Uncle John and my mother are
prejudiced against each other. There was
trouble about my either s will which made
breaches between them. But when I am
twenty-one all that will be over, and he
will have faithfully fulfilled his trust, they
will then know and appreciate each other.
But," she added in a different tone, " I am
troubling you about my affairs, which after

all cannot interest you much. Though I
seem to know you so well, Mr. Warrender, weare
scarcely more than strangers to each other,
and I ought to remember that I am not a
child now."

Oh, do not shut me out from sympathy
with you," exclaimed Warrender impulsively.
It has often done me good to think of your
childish confidence in me. That kind of thing
is like an appeal to one's honour. It made me
wish to be good. I have wondered about you
so many times. If you knew how glad I am
to see you now looking well  and happy ! "

A shade passed over the young girl's face.
Oh yes, I am happy. But I don't think it
is my nature to be exuberantly joyful. That,
you may perhaps imagine, Mr. Warrender,
when I tell you that this yew walk is the
place I am most fond of in the Abbey
grounds. Isn't it a curious spot ? so quiet
and so mournful. I sit here sometimes on

moonlight nights, when  as is rarely the
case -we are at Hallingforcl in the summertime.
You can't think how beautiful it is
then, such vivid contrasts of deep shadow
and silvery light. Did you come upon it
by chance ? "

''A fortunate chance," said Warrender,
'since I have seen you. I had a half-formed
intention of calling at the Abbey, but I
heard that you had your house full, and was a
little shy at the thought of facing a number
of strangers. It would have been embarrassing
had you not recognised me."

There was no danger of that, as you
have seen. Shall' we go in-doors now ? I daresay
that you won't find the strangers so very
formidable. They are nearly all going away
the day after tomorrow, when the Militia
ball is over. Lord Bretland  one of them 
knows you, or at least has been staying with
your people. It was he who told me about your

exploits, and your wanderings. What a number
of places you have been to, Mr. Warrender.
The Fiji Islands. That was where you went
first, wasn't it ? Australia ! Mexico !  Do you
know Monaco ? " she asked suddenly.
. / " The naughty little principality ? No."

Why do you say that '? Don't you know the
story of how the spirit of St. Devote in the form
of a dove, guided the boat which held the body
of the martyred saint to its resting-place
there ? "

She looked at that instant so like the child
Helena, that he smiled involuntarily.

' One does not think of that legend," he answered.
" The name is associated with the gaming
rooms, and the tales told of suicide and ruin."

It is not a legend," she exclaimed eagerly 
then added, " you are not a Catholic ? "

No," he replied.

She looked at him earnestly for a moment,
disappointment, faint inquiry depicted upon her

expressive features. " We don't live iu the
world," she said thoughtfully, '' and I suppose
that I have never realised what harm comes of
gambling. It is like the existence of public
houses, which one is obliged to accept. And
yet what sorrow they cause ! But there must bea
great many people who go to Monaco not for
the sake of play, just as the priest's mission is
to the wicked and unfortunate. My mother
and sister are living at Monte Carlo."

Warrender made some commonplace remark
upon the beauty of the climate ; and Miss
Kilsyth remained silent for some moments. Her
frank communicativeness seemed checked. It
was as though some impalpable barrier had risen
between them. They talked only of ordinary
subjects till they had left the yew-tree walk
and were again in the world of sunshine and
realities. He fancied as they neared the house
that her manner unconsciously became graver
and more conventional. This impression was

deepened a few moments later when lie saw
her among her guests. She was sweet and
cordial, but a little shy, very quiet, and joining
uncertainly in the conversation, as though her
interests and pursuits were not those of her
companions, and she feared to obtrude them
disagreeably. But her exceeding grace and
gentle dignity made her one of the most
charming of hostesses.

A good many people were lounging in the
hall when they entered, and Sir John Kilsyth,
ruddy-faced, keen-eyed, dry in speech, the
English sportsman written on every line of his
somewhat vulpine features and compactly-built
figure, had just returned from his morning ride.

He greeted Warrender with bluff cordiality,
and pressed upon him the hospitality of the
Abbey, though he seemed surprised to find him
already acquainted with Helena. Then followed
a rather halting explanation and abridged account
of the meeting with her eight years before.

This little incident told volumes concerning the
relations between uncle and niece, friendly, even
affectionate, as was their bearing to each other.

A suave, extremely gentlemanly Catholic
priest took his place at luncheon upon Miss
Kilsyth's left. His manners where prepossessing,
he had travelled much, was apparently above
prejudices, and did not disdain a good story.
Warrender felt half sad, half amused, to observe
the tact with which Father Clifford accommodated
himself to the style of conversation
Sir John preferred, and the evident antagonism
existing between the two. He conceived an
Englishman's dislike towards the priest, though
obliged to admit that it was hardly justified.

Sir John had much advice to give concerning
the management of Branches, and the gentlemen
lingered late over the luncheon table. Warrender
was surprised to find that the priest had
views upon subsoil and the rotation of crops,
and had a fund of information generally upon

the pursuits of county gentlemen. The afternoon
was spent in pleasant lounging about the
garden  lawn tennis and a tour of inspection
with Helena of the older part of the building.
He returned to Branches only in time to put
on his evening clothes and drive back again.
It had been arranged that he should dine and
sleep at the Abbey upon that evening and the
following, when he was to accompany the Kilsyth
party to the militia ball.

LOVE VERSUS CREED.

An intimacy so begun deepens quickly.
Warrender waltzed thrice with Helena, and
before the third waltz was over knew that he
was most reverently in love with her. The feeling
seemed to be a part of himself, and to have
taken root in his being years before, though he
had only now discovered its existence. It was
calm, elevating, reasonable, the healthy love
which a man may feel deep down in his heart
for a true pure-eyed woman, and which, from
its very nature, can never die or wholly lose
its influence upon his better self.

He did not dance much that evening, but
stood apart taking a strange delight in watching

her. All the time he was thinking that she
did not quite belong to the circle in which she
moved. She smiled and danced, and was gracious
in her reserved way to the men, who on account
of her beauty, and perhaps her wealth, laid
themselves out to please her. But there was
in her every look and gesture a sweet, serious
dignity that rebuked frivolous gallantry. He
observed when she was talking to her j)c'irtners
that she never shed upon them that rare, tender
smile which on her recognition of him the day
before had illuminated her face, and which he
learned later was only called into play when
her deepest feelings  those connected with her
religion or with her mother  were touched.
Occasionally their eyes met, as it were across
a gulf, and the glance seemed to imply a
peculiar sympathy. This thought was grateful
to him ; but he knew that the look was directed
with a child's unconsciousness. No thought
of the possibility of any nearer bond had

crossed Helena's mind, nor, he knew, would
occur to her till he made some definite advance.

He sat beside her during the long; drive
home, and though she hardly spoke, there came
over him a wonderful feeling of peace and happiness
in the mere contact of her soft white
drapery, and in breathing the perfume of the
flowers which she carried.

Upon the morrow most of Sir John's visitors
departed, and the ojd gentleman insisted that
Warrender should take up his abode at the
Abbey for a week. Thus he was admitted into
the holy seclusion of Helena's home life. He
sat with her in her own little sanctum, abundantly
adorned with photographs of her mother
and sister. He rode with her ; he walked
with her ; he spent long hours with her in
the wood where they had first met. They were
like brother and sister in their intercourse, except
for that indefinable something in George's manner
which was not fraternal, and which was perceived

by Father Clifford if not by Helena.
The priest did not approve of the intimacy,
but he could not openly thwart Sir John, who
encouraged Warrender's addresses, and for the
present the surest safeguard lay in Helena's
unconsciousness.

The week lengthened into a fortnight before
Warrender returned to Branches ; but oven
then, a great part of his days were spent in
Helena's society. Books, missions of mercy,
the little concerns of every day, afforded so
many pretexts for being together, till meetings
had become a necessity. So two months had
passed away. September came, and with it
the week fixed for the Kilsyth's return to
Mar elands.

Warrender was ill-versed in the signs of
dawning affection ; but it seemed to him that
of late Helena had shown consciousness of his
love, and that her manner encouraged him to
hope. She was perhaps a little less frank in

VOL I. X

her speech than she had been at first ; but
then they conversed now upon more purely
personal topics ; mere friendly intimacy merges
so imperceptibly into something much closer
and deeper, and perhaps there was no surer
sign of mutual attachment than the long
silence which often fell between them, and the
glances which surprised each other and quickly
drooped. He perceived, sometimes, that her
voice had a note of lingering tenderness when
she bade him farewell, and wondered, inwardly
rebuking his presumption, whether she too
counted the hours of their separation. He
thought that he observed an occasional look
of trouble upon her face, and speculated as
to its cause and whether it were in any way
connected with the foreign letters for which
she watched so eagerly. Every movement
of hers, every passing expression upon her
features, had now become to him a source of
the deepest interest. He was well aware that

the difference in religion was a barrier which
possibly might never be surmounted, but
Warrender had a way of looking straight
beyond present obstacles, to the goal he
sought, and had so great faith in the power
of love, that he believed it must sooner or
later sweep all before it.

Once let him be certain that she cared for
him  and if that were so, Helena was too
true a woman to deny the fact  it would, he
thought, be easy for him to convince her of
his reverence for her faith, and his determination
that she should never be trammelled in
its exercise.

He hardly took into consideration the fact
that her fortune was larger than his own ; he
was sufficiently wealthy to be above the imputation
of interested motives. All true,
manly love is humble, and yet in its very
humility there is a curious pride.
It was the day before that of Helena's

I 2

departure. Warrender rode over from Branches
in the morning bringing a book for which
she had asked him the day before. She had
been chill and distant in her manner to him
the previous evening, a sudden change from
her former sweetness, which, while she had
been softly playing some old-fashioned melodies
in the hall after tea, had encouraged him to
utter some ardent words. She had left him
hurriedly. Was she angry ? When they met
again at dinner he felt almost certain that
she had been crying. She looked sad, but not
angry, and had sat very silent all the evening,
negativing the proposal that coffee should betaken
out on the terrace, an opportunity for
unburthening his heart upon which he had
counted. He had spent a miserable night,
full of vague fears and tremors. Had he
then mistaken her ? and did she feel for him
nothing more than a sisterly affection ? He resolved
that on the morrow he would put an end

to doubt. It was his habit to come thus, on
no errand in particular, and equally the custom
that he should be invited to stay for luncheon,
or perhaps the whole day. Upon these occasions
he was shown into the library, where
Helena usually spent her mornings, but to-day
the servant said she was walking on the
terrace, and thither he went, hoping that he
might find her alone. Father Clifford, however,
was with her, and Warrender saw, when
still at the distance of some paces, that he
had interrupted a serious conversation. The
priest was speaking impressively, his gestures
were animated, his gaze fixed and earnest, while
Helena listened with face downcast and sorrowful.
She started and coloured when, at the
sound of footsteps, she looked up and saw
Warrender approaching, and could only offer
her hand in silent greeting. Father Clifford
smiled with his usual benignity and adroitly
led the conversation by asking some questions

about a local matter in which Warrender had
taken active part, and the discussion of which
called attention from Helena. " I suppose,
Mr. Warrender," he said suavely, " that when
we return to Hallingford in the winter, we
shall find you in the full swing of your
county duties, sitting on the bench, riding
to hounds, and all that sort of thing 
emulating Sir John, in fact ? It will be a
change  perhaps not quite an agreeable one
at first  from the roving life you have led
of late years."

' It is not quite certain that I shall be at
Branches in the winter, " replied Warrender,
pointedly turning to Helena.

She looked up hurriedly and inquiringly.
'* Are you going  back to Mexico ? " she asked,
with a little falter in her voice.

"I don't know. Perhaps. What would you
advise ? " he answered recklessly.

Their eyes met. In hers there was an

expression of mingled pain and dread, while his
betrayed deeper feeling than he had intended to
show. Her glance fell beneath his look, but she
made no effort to reply. Father Clifford broke
the rather awkward silence by observing 

'* We at the Abbey are hardly impartial judges,
Mr. Warren der. It is a matter of moment to us
whether Branches is or is not inhabited. Weare
very dependent upon such a neighbour as
yourself, and Miss Kilsyth will feel your loss all
the more because she has not lived here long
enough at a time to make many intimate friends.
On the other hand, I quite see what attractions
the buried cities in Mexico must have for you.
Your work is an important one, though
I don't know that it is sufficiently so to exclude
every other aim in life. By the way, did you
see a paragraph in this week's Athenaeum
referring to your present discoveries ? "

Warrender answered at random. The priest's
placid obtuseness, which might be supposed to

mask a deeper motive, irritated his already jarred
nerves. He longed to hear Helena speak 
longed to be alone with her  to question her
upon the change in her demeanour, which he
saw so plainly. He burned with anxiety and
impatience. It seemed marvellous that he had
restrained himself for so long. He must speak
must know the best or worst. For weeks
they had been sailing on smooth seas, and she
at least had been unconscious of any impending
crisis. Now a storm had arisen, the crisis was
come, and possibly her mind had for the first
time awakened to a sense of her position.
Perhaps the priest had been warning her of
danger ; urging her to dismiss his suit ; and
already a struggle was raging in her bosom.
His pulses thrilled at the thought. In this case
he had little to fear. If she loved him  ah, if
only she loved him I how soon he would beat
down her scruples and gather her into his arms.
Let the die be cast at once. If she did not love

him, then better that he should go away and try
to forget her, or at least bury the hope of making
her his own with the many sweet impossibilities
of life.

These thoughts passed through his mind as
they paced the terrace. It was a glorious day ;
the blue unchecked ; no suggestion of coming
autumn in the air ; the roses in their second
bloom, and the flower beds a blaze of colour.
Helena stopped to cut some of the late Marshal
Noel roses. Warrender noticed that before she
did so she placed a letter in her reticule. She
sighed as she did so. " I hope that you have
good news of your mother," said Warrender
abruptly.

Again the expression of pain deepened in
Helena's eyes. " My mother is very well," she
answered in a low voice. " I heard from her
this morning." Then she added, trying to resume
her usual manner, "Mr. Warrender, 1
hope you haven't forgotten that we are going

away tomorrow. Have you given McDermott
proper instructions as to the cuttings you want
planted out ? Shall we go round to the garden
and pay him a last visit ? The houses are worth
looking at now I am always sorry," she
continued without a break, '' when the time
conies for saying good-bye to Hallingford,
especially so this year. It is harder to leave a
place one is fond of in the summer than in the
winter."

Warren der assented eagerly. Father Clifford
glanced at Helena as if to learn her pleasure.
To George's disappointment she said nervously,
You will come, will you not '? "

He turned and walked by her side ; but
after the tour of inspection, during which they
all three chatted with forced unconcern, he
lingered behind, watching the gardener, while
the latter filled a basket with grapes and peaches.
Helena, followed by Warrender, moved on to
a bed of carnations, where she added a bunch

of the variegated fragrant blossoms to a nosegay
of hot-house flowers which she had already
gathered.

We are going for a long drive this afternoons'
she said in an explanatory tone  " to
the convent at Ashton ; and the sisters are so
fond of flowers."

Miss Kilsyth," said Warrender, looking at
her with a meaning which she could not
mistake. ' I have something to say to you
  a question to ask you upon which much
depends for me. May I not speak to you
alone ? "

Helena turned very pale and hent closer over
her carnations, but did not speak for a moment
or two. " I don't know," she said hesitatingly.
I  I am very much engaged to day  and 
tomorrow  "

Helena," he exclaimed passionately, "it is
not like you, who are so noble, so tender-hearted,
to play with a man's happiness ! "

Her eyes met his now straightly  full of
indignant appeal.

Oh, forgive me," he mm-murecl. " But you
are unlike yourself this morning, and I am in
great suspense."

You know," she began agitatedly, " I would
not hurt a living creature if I could help it, and
how much more  " She checked herself, then
added hurriedly, " I would rather bear any
suffering myself. If you will wait till tomorrow."
She went on more quietly. " We
don't go away till the afternoon ; and, in the
morning, if you wish it "

I wish only wdiat you wish. But not
to-day ? Ah, Helena, does that mean that I
must not hope ? "

She shook her head. Her lips parted as
though she would have spoken impulsively.
When something seemed to arrest the rising
words. He saw that she was deeply moved ;
the tears gathered in her eyes. Had they been

alone ; had he dared to take her in his arms and
force from her the confession of her love, the wall
between them might have been broken down forever.
But Father Clifford, by whom the little
scene had not been unnoticed, was advancing
towards them. Warrender's eyes piteously
pleaded. Helena's hands were trembling. The
bunch of carnations fell to the ground ; as
Warrender restored them, he separated one, a
pure white blossom, and placed it last in the
basket. '' Will you let me keep this ? " he said
very humbly. " Won't you give it to me  as a
sign that you are not angry with me."

She gave it to him silently, then turned away
and joined the priest.

My daughter," he whispered tenderly,
remember your mother's counsel, remember
the example of nipple women, who have looked
upon the joys of youth and love only as a gift
which they might offer to God. Be brave, your
reward will be great."

*' To-morrow, Father," murmured Helena with
a stifled sob, " I will try to show myself worthy."

When they reached the terrace again
Warrender took his leave.

'' I am sorry," said Father Clifford politely,
that Sir John is not at home. He does not
return till late this evening."

Warrender held Helena's hand within his
own for a moment. He marvelled afterwards
at its exceeding coldness. " Good-bye," he said,
till tomorrow."

IN THE YEW TREE WALK.

Helena went for her drive. She took her
flowers and fruit to the nuns ; she visited some
sick people in the hospital ; she played with the
orphans whom the sisters tended, and distributed
among them books and toys. But her
head felt strange and light : she seemed to be
treading upon air, and moving and speaking ina
dream. All the time she was not for one
second free from the haunting sense of
Warrender's presence ; wherever she looked
she saw his beseeching eyes.

Helena shuddered at the thought of the pain
she was causing as though it were a wound
inflicted upon herself. Her only strength lay

in a kind of spiritual exaltation which possessed
her. God required of her a sacrifice, and it
should be rendered, not grudgingly and repining,
but with the unswerving faith of
the martyrs of old.

It is in the hour of supreme trial that the
influences of childhood and early training press
thickly, shaping end and action. So now the
discipline of Helena's young life bore fruit  the
repression of her natural yearnings and their
direction into the channel of religion, the sentiment
of almost superstitious reverence for an
unseen monitor into which her love for her
mother had been changed, her enthusiasm for
high motive and disinterested endeavour, all
combined and prompted but one decision.

Yet, though this was firmly fixed, though she
would not admit the possibility of union with
Warrender, there lingered in her breast a faint
hope that the sacrifice might not be exacted
to the uttermost. The horizon of the future

appears so vast to the young. It is so impossible
for a woman entirely to cut herself
adrift in thought from the man she loves. As
well attempt to annihilate a part of her own
nature ; and the flinty would not be banished
that, perhaps years hence, Warrender might
become a Catholic, not for love of her, but from
deep conviction, and that then they might be
happy.

But the very suggestion brought self-accusation.
There must be no paltering with present
duty. The renunciation must be complete ; no
looking backwards or forwards; no bargaining
with Fate for future reward.

She was very silent during the drive home.
All the way Father Clifford indirectly exhorted,
appealed. Without laying special stress upon
her own case, his conversation tended to but one
object. He painted the glory of self-abnegation ;
the grandeur of that quiet heroism which renounces
earthly joy for the righteousness' sake.

VOL. L K

He played upon the young girl's nature,
striking only those chords which would produce
the harmony he wished. Her mind was a
responsive instrument to this master hand.
Father Clifford was no cold-blooded director
shorn of human sympathies. Had he been only
the mouthpiece of his Church his influence over
Helena might perhaps hare fallen short of its
mark. He, too, had fought, bled, and
triumphed. His voice trilled with feeling, but
it also inspired passionless resolve. He was an
enthusiast for his faith, and his words stirred her
to such a pitch of spiritual fervour that there
seemed but one compelling duty. Her mother's
letter, which had arrived that morning, strengthened
her fanaticism, and was perhaps the most
powerful weapon that could have been raised
against Warrender.

Mrs. Kilsyth, alarmed by Helena's frequent
mention of her new friend, suspecting that Sir
John encouraged the intimacy, not knowing her

daughter, and dreading the possible results of a
Protestant alliance, had written in a fervid
strain to Helena, warning her of the danger of
allowing her heart to be gained by one of
another creed, pointing out the obligations laid
upon her as the representative of a Catholic
family, adjuring her to place no further barrier
in the way of that reunion between mother and
daughter so earnestly desired, now so near at
hand. The letter had been penned in a flight of
enthusiasm, brought on more immediately by an
hour's prostration in the Chapel of Ste. Devote,
and indirectly by a run of bad luck at roulette,
and resentment after a fit of coldness on the part
of Madame Fanoo.

Poor Helena, blind and mistaken, yet leaning
with child-like trust upon the props her fmcy
had created I Were not faith and self-denial the
very watchwords of her belief ? Her confessor,
her mother, the traditions in which she had l)een
reared, and which had unconsciously moulded

K 2

her character, all commanded that she should
put away the love that had grown so simply and
mightily within her.

Warrender passed the hours in a state of
mental tumult of which he had never before
had any experience. He dined alone for the
first time for several days, and afterwards
smoked his cigar out of doors, shuddering inwardly
at the prospect of a solitary evening and
a wakeful night. Under other circumstances he
would have gone to the Abbey. The intimacy
had now become so great that formal invitations
were hardly ever sent to Branches, Sir
John declaring that he might take for granted
the fact that they were always delighted to
see him. There was a short cut through the
Chase which considerably shortened the distance
and let him into the grounds by a wicket
gate, so that he could gain the terrace easily,

and informally join the small party usually
assembled there. Sir John was always glad
of a little variation from his nightly game
of chess with Father Clifford, and liked lingering
in the open air, talking over horses, dogs,
and country matters with a congenial companion,
while Helena's music floated softly out through
the open window. What happy hours they had
been ! Warrender thought thus with a sigh and
a flutter of hope, bitterly regretting his rash
words of that morning. But for his impetuosity
he might have stolen another hour with
his beloved.

In the face of her implied prohibition this
was impossible. Some satisfaction might, however,
be gained from a visit to the haunts
which had become sacred to him for her sake.
Exercise was a relief ; and before many minutes
lie had reached the outskirts of the Chase.
There was a straight path through it, fenced
by iron railings, and here he lingered, enjoying

the fragrance of leaf and flower, and soothed
by the solitude and weariness of the place.
Leaving the wood, he crossed a part of the
park and, after skirting a belt of shrubbery,
found himself in the grounds below the terrace.
There was a bright moon shining, which lit up
the front of the house and silvered the feathery
clumps of pampas grass on the lawn. The
night was still, and for that time of year unusually
warm. Faint odours blended together ;
the air was like a bath of perfume. The
shadows seemed strange and unearthly. Scarcely
a leaf stirred. The whole scene was one of
luxurious calm.

No sound came from the drawing-room,
though the windows were wide open, letting a
flood of soft light stream upon the gravel.
To one side Warrender saw the outline of the
cloisters and of a solemn-looking archway, and
the old-fashioned garden against its sombre
background of yews. Suddenly he remembered

Helena's words, spoken the first time they had
met in the yew tree avenue, "I sit here sometimes
on moonlight nights. . . . You can't
think how beautiful it is then, such vivid
contrasts of deep shadow and silvery light."

Upon such an evening as this, in such a spot,
would it not be difficult to resist the pleadings
of love ? Was there not a probability that,
like himself, Helena had gone forth to court
the stillness of night % Instinct drew him
towards the avenue. He felt like a thief
stealing about the grounds, and was half
ashamed of the impulse which had brought him
hither. His feet fell almost noiselessly upon
the turf. Ashen he reached the pavilion he told
himself that Fate had directed his steps. Here
was the opportunity for which he had longed.
Through a rift in the foliage the moon shed her
rays full upon the shrine which Helena
decorated daily. At the feet of the placid-faced
image lay Helena's votive offering of

flowers  pure white carnations, such as that
one she had given him in the morning  and
before the shrine a white fio-ure knelt. It was
Helena. Her profile was towards him, the
eyes upraised, the lips parted, her golden hair
lying loose upon her neck. She was praying
in low, tremulous tones. He could not distinguish
any words, but he fancied once that a
sob choked her utterance. In a moment he
was beside the platform upon which she
kneeled.

Helena ! "

She rose to her feet, not in nervous haste
or confusion, but calmly as though a summons
which she expected had come, and stood
looking down upon him from the greater
height of her position. A heavenly radiance
encircled her form. She seemed to him, in
her white robes and with her pure, pale face,
a young priestess, whose soul had been raised
to a spiritual region remote from his grosser

longings. In truth, lie felt creeping over her
the sort of numbness which accompanies intense
resolve. Her passion was all spent, exhausted
in the wild supplications that had poured from
her lips, when upon her return from the
drive she had prostrated herself in the chapel
that ancient spot, sanctified by many
memories, where other hearts had weaned
themselves from love and life. She had eaten
nothing, and in her mood of exaltation was
scarcely conscious of bodily need or mental
pain. Warrender's appearance did not surprise
her. No occurrence could now have struck her
as out of the ordinary course. She was glad
that he had come. To-night she was strong.
To-morrow reaction would probably have set in.
Of this she was dimly aware, and wished to guard
herself against any possibility of recantation.

Her beauty and dignity awed him. Ho
hardly dared to speak ; but a little quivering
movement about her lips appealed to him, and

seemed to bring her to his human level. Words
came fast and brokenly.

1 am wrong to have come here to-night
after what you said this morning. But you
would forgive me if you understood the state
of suspense I have been in  if you knew how
I love you. It has come upon me so much
more strongly of late, perhaps because of your
going away, or because of a change in you, I
don't know how to account for that, or whether
it ought to make me fear or hope most.
Perhaps the knowledge of my feeling has
come to you suddenly, and you see only drawbacks
and difficulties, or perhaps you wish to
rebuke my presumption and are unwilling to
cause me pain. However that may be, I love
you with my whole heart, and even if it is
presumption the love is too strong in me to be
fought against or put clown. Why should
there be any question of putting it down ?
I know that I could make you happy if only

you cared for me ; everything depends upon
that. I have loved you ever since you were
a little girl, when I saw you first, lying in the
wood yonder and sobbing as if your heart were
broken. I wanted to comfort you then, and
to make your life less lonely . . . and
ever since I have fancied that there was a
sort of bond between us, something which drew
us together, and made it impossible to believe
that our lives could be lived quite separate

from each other "

He paused, and looked at her with eager
anxiety, waiting for her to say some word.
But she stood still and silent, like one in a
dream.

Of course, there are difficulties  discrepancies,"
he went on with gathering agitation. " You are
richer than I am, and you are expected to make
a marriage by which you will gain even greater
power and influence than are yours by right. I
can't offer you position, or wealth, or anything

worth your acceptance from a worldly point of
view. Then there's the difference in religion 
which to you I know woukl be the strongest bar.
But does it matter ? Do any of these things
matter so long as there's love,  that overleaps,
breaks down all obstacles ? If there's no love on
your side I am pleading to no purpose, and there's
an end put to everything. But even if it were
so, I should still have the feeling; that in a kind
of way you belonged to me  whether I married
another woman or not. You would live in my
heart as the little girl I longed so to comfort
and to cherish."

Helena drew a deep breath, and her eyes
opened wide, the lids quivering, as though she
were awakening to a sense of burden and of
sorrowful necessity for speech or action. She
looked at him for a moment with solemn sadness,
in which there was no shadow of doubt, then
withdrew her gaze, speaking hesitatingly and
without emotion, as if she feared to be borne

further than she wished, were she to give her
thoughts rein.

You must think of me always as I was then ;
for you will remember how ignorant I was, and
will perhaps forgive my blindness now, and the
pain I am causing you. You'll remember the
strong feeling I had then about my religion and
my mother, and you will not wonder that
those influences bind me now so strongly as to
make what you wish an impossibility, even if  "
She was going to say " even if I loved you,"
but the prevarication died upon lies* lips.

Oh, do not tell me that it is impossible till
you have heard me out," he urged, passionately.
'' I recollect your saying, even as long ago as
that, that you would marry no one but a
Catholic. But religion is more than the profession
of a particular creed. Dogmas are only
like garments that can be put on or off at will.
They don't touch the real heart and soul underneath.
Goodness, spirituality, love, must always

be the same, no matter in what sort of church
they are taught. But a man who would change
the creed he had been bred in for the sake of
winning the woman he loved, would be a mean-spirited,
time-serving creature. What right
would he have to be believed in ? Where
would there be any test for his sincerity of
motive ? That is what makes religion. Oh,
believe me, if you can love me and will trust
me, you will feel this as I do. If you only
love me," he went on with deep earnestness,
I will try to convince you that religion is nota
Molech, nor God an inhuman tyrant to be
propitiated by the sacrifice of all our dearest
wishes. Nature cannot be bound, and love is
a law of nature ; and it is not within our control
to say who we shall or shall not love. You
are no soulless automaton to be moved this
way or that by the direction of your priest.
You are a true and noble woman, made to bethe
crown and blessing of the man you love.

Helena, look at me, and if  oh, say if it is possible
for you to love me. Look at me, Helena."

But she kept her eyes bent on the ground.
"It is of no use," she said, drearily. " We only
give each other pain. You know that it hurts
me to make you unhappy. And you have been
so good to me always ! I can't bear it." . . .
Her voice broke, and she clasped her hands
tightly together. '' If I could have foreseen, I
would not have allowed you to be my friend.
It would have been better if we had never met
if I had never had your sympathy."

Oh, do not say that," he cried. " You too
have felt that something drew us together. You
have wanted me. . , . Oh, I hioiv that you
would never have reason to repent, if you would
only trust me for always. I would respect your
faith even in a greater degree than my own.
I would never utter one word which could cause
division. You should be free as air. Any
conditions might be made."

Oil, no, no ! " lie exclaimed, her voice rising
clear again from the extreme tension under
which her powers were straining. " Nothing
could make such a WTono right. How could
there be any oneness, any true happiness in a
marriage like that ? Let us part now, and 
and think of each other tenderly  as friends 
and try to sjoare each other pain. It is all
difficult. Life is very sad. I don't think we are
meant to have any lasting happiness except
what comes from coins what one believes to be
right. The right is not easy to see. And when
there are conflicting claims, we can but pray
and trust to those wiser for guidance. But when
it is clearly seen, as I see it now, the only
duty is to cling to it. Do not urge me anymore.
Talking will not make any difference
except to make us more unhappy. I can only
give one answer  What you wish is impossible."

It shall not be impossible  if you love me,"
said surrender, insistently. " That is the real

question  not any other. Say that you do not
love me, and I will leave you at once and vex
you no more."

Helena gazed at him with eyes full of despairing
appeal. '' Go then," she said. " Leave me.
Perhaps some day wee may be friends again,
till then, good-bye'' She held out her hands
to him, and let them lie clasped in his for a
moment, and her eyes clung to his face. Then,
when with a passionate gesture he seemed about
to plead once more, she loosed her hand and
turned abruptly away from him. " Good-bye,"
she repeated, as without another word or look
she glided swiftly down the avenue towards
the house.

* iC  4>

He did not go to the Abbey on the following
morning, nor did he write to her, or make any
further appeal. It was all over. Upon considering
the interview, and dispassionately
weighing her speech and manner, he convinced

VOL. I. L

himself that the emotion she had shown was
due entirely to regret at having caused him pain,
and at having unknowingly misled him. Her
last words, in which she had bidden him leave
her, were, he told himself, tantamount to an
admission that she did not love him. " I
deceived myself," he thought a little bitterly,
'though God knows it was not through vanity.
Her sweetness and kindness meant only friendship.
If she loved me she is too brave and
true not to have acknowledged it. If she had
loved me she would have treated me less like
a brother."

THE HOTEL DES ANGES.

Dinner had commenced when Warren der
entered the salle a manger at the Hotel des
Anges, and made his way to where General
Featherstone and his wife were sitting, and
where a place had been kept vacant for him

A table dliote at Monaco presents a still
more remarkable variety of the human species
than is to be seen in any other of the Eiviera
watering-places. Food for speculation and interest
was here not wanting. Warrender s eyes
sought Madame Fanoo but found her not, though
the sight of two unappropriated chairs near the
head of the table kept him in a state of expectation
till the meal was concluded.

L 2

The scene was one of glitter, gas, and noise,
inspiring sadness as well as amusement. Involuntarily
Warrender thought of Browning's
lines :

. . . . till in due time, one by one,
Some with lives that came to nothing, some with deeds as

well undone,
Death stepped tacitly and took them where they never

see the sun."

Opposite him was an English girl, with sad
prominent eyes, thin cheeks, and bright hectic
flush, so unconscious, and yet so unmistakably
doomed. Beside her, a fair American, with
that look of softness, brilliance, and artificiality,
so characteristic of her nation as represented
by her sex. She wore a fantastic arrangement
of crimson plush upon her shoulders, and priceless
diamonds at her neck, in her ears, and on
her round, white wrists. Lower down, a woman
in a black dress, cut after the pattern of Regent
Street, with a bunch of tea-roses at her throat.

Her deep-set eyes, bistre-shaded, the melancholy
expression of her rather coarsely cut lips,
her free false laugh, as she made herself
agreeable to the elderly, dissipated Looking
(gentleman who filled her glass with champagne,
told their own sorrowful story, and
renewed in Warrender the sense of pity and
repulsion.

He turned with faint relief to another of
these living vignettes  a portly man with a
large white collar, and a magnificent chain
meandering over an ample expanse of waistcoat,
who sat upon the other side of the
consumptive English girl. His fringe of white
hair, heard, and whiskers, stood out like a
nimbus from his red fleshy fiice and bald head.
He had a look of " got up " honesty, of
leering frankness and assumed suavity, inexpressibly
disagreeable. But, at least, h( was
not a woman !

These dear little lairds, these innoc went

little birds," lie was saying in unctuous tones.
It goes to my heart to eat them. Cruelty
to animal creation ! The martyrdom of
Nature ! In my youth I lived, from principle,
upon water biscuits and farinaceous food.
But who acts up to conviction at Monte
Carlo ? When I find an honest man here I
regard him as a gem, a phenomenon. As for
the ladies  " He shruofo:ed his shoulders 



passively. *' Now, sir," addressing a flashy,
bejewelled Englishman of the " 'Army " type,
"you are a gentleman of varied observation.
What is your opinion of the relative tendency
towards oamblino- of the two sexes ? "

"Oh, I back the ladies." And "carry"
leered unpleasantly in the direction of the
American, who returned the glance with a
cold stare. " I mean it as a compliment.
They gamble with themselves. Now, marriage,
you know  isn't a woman staking her life ? "

"Ah," chuckled the fat gentleman, "it's

said that marriages are made in heaven. But
you can't insure against Zero coming up sometimes.
Zero is the devil's chance. Gar f on,
Cortez Autre chose. I say, bring it back.
What's the Greek  I mean the French  for
sparrows ? I never exercise my brain when
I'm eating : it's bad for the digestion ; that
is one argument for marriage. One might
make one's wife do all the hard work."

A convenient combination of matter and
mind," observed " 'Army."

The white-haired gentleman leaned forward
and spoke to AVarrender in German.

'' I am English," coldly replied the latter.

Ah, pardon me. The conformation of your
head, the great width at the base of the forehead,
a sign, by the way, of superior intellect,
suggests the German origin. You have not
been long at Monte Carlo ; the place is hardly
full yet. Next week, there will be another
table, and you will see people eight deep

pitching money over each other's heads. Are
you interested in roulette, sir ? I myself have
had thirty years' experience of gaming-tables
and have worked out a system. It's a wonderful
game. Chess is a child to it, the mystery
of the number nine has never been satisfactorily
explored. I have devoted my life to its study.
I got as far as beinoj alle to tell the winnings
number seven times running, when I said to
myself, ' You can go no further.' But a friend
of mine has gone further. lie is a Pole. The
secret lies in the mystery of the nines. We
shall work it together, and we shall share the
profits ; of course we could break the bank, and
clean the whole things out. But we ain't such
fools as that. We shall content ourselves with
making our 20,000 a year. It's nothing buta
question of system, my dear sir. People who
lose are those who play recklessly. The dear
wife says, 'Oh, I think rouge will turn up.'
The husband stakes, and his louis are swept

away, whereas if he had calculated his chances,
he would have gone on noire

D-d-don't listen to him," confidentially
stuttered a little red-whiskered man upon
Waxrender's right. " He's a s-s-swindler.
Says he'll sell his Fj-s-system for five hundred
francs. You must look out here, or you'll be
cheated. D-d-don't you dine in the restaurant.
You'll be charged t-t-two francs for a mutton-chop.
My name is Bland, C-C-captain Bland.
I'm with a party. Let us go to the Casino
together. Let us all go in a b-b-body. Do
you get tired of travelling ? I do, you know.
I've got C-c- cook's tickets, you know. People
say they aren't a saving ; but just you
c-c-calculate the number of miles and the
fares, and you'll see. I'm just stopping hereto
look at the g-g-ambling. Eo palette is too
scientific. T rente et quarante  that's the thing,
you know. There's a lady here  she lives with
a c-c-count, and she plays all day. At night

she is generally a little snuffy ; but when she
is snuffy, she always wins. You follow her
lead and you'll win too."

Captain Bland beamed with benevolent smiles
under the ha23py conviction that he had armed
a helpless fellow-traveller against the assaults
of a set of thieves ; and turning to his party,
whom Warrender perceived to be Americans,
repeated emphatically, " Let us go in a b-b-body.
They can't do us much harm if we go in a
l)-b-body."

We are unfortunately placed this evening,"
remarked General Featherstoue with apologetic
stiffness. 'the people in the hotel usually
sit at the other table ; but we have been
spending a few days at San Eemo, and came
back to find our seats occupied. I wanted
to dine quietly in our salon, but my wife
likes variety, and, I really believe, prefers
this set to the other."

Mrs. Featherstoue, leaning across her

husband, had a good deal to say upon the
subject. Presently the meal came to an end,
and a move was made to the reading-room.
Three-quarters of an hour liter, just as Mrs.
Featherstone had begun to adjust her wraps,
the door of the reading-room opened, and
Mrs. Kilsyth and Madame Fanoo entered. The
former looked flushed and agitated, but
strikingly handsome, with a scarf of black
lace becomingly shrouding her silvery hair.
Madame Fanoo wore her bonnet, and carried
a mantle of crimson plush upon her arm.
She approached Mrs. Featherstone. '' May I
walk with you to the Casino ? My mother
is not going; down." A chorus of exclamations
greeted the announcement.

'' It is true," said Mrs. Kilsyth in a tone
of dejection. " I am cleaned out. Happily
the new year begins tomorrow. My luck is
gone. The fount is dried up : silver has no
effect ; a louis is useless ; it requires dirty,

crumpled notes to set the stream running,
and, alas ! there are none forthcoming. I am
going to stay here and play schist. Mr.
Braunstein will be my partner. We shall
play for that excellent thing which you
cannot see, but which you can feel, which is
without value to some, of inestimable worth
to others  thrown into a gutter, and sold
for the jewels of Golconda. They call it
love."

AVarrender was standing: in the background.
Mrs. Featherstone motioned him by a look
to her side, ere she addressed Madame Fanoo.

'ewe shall be delighted to take care of
you. But mays I introduce to you a friend of
mine, and a friend, too, if I mistake not, of
your sister ? Mr. "Warrender, madame Fanoo."

Varuna bowed. Then her eyes, meeting
those of Warrender, shot a startled gleam, and
the colour rose vividly to her elieek. She
held out her hand.

Of course, Mr. Warrender, your name is
familiar to me. I am very glad to make
your acquaintance. I did not know who you
were this afternoon. You brought me luck :

o

and I have not properly expressed my
gratitude."

On the contrary, I was fortunate in
merely enabling you to profit by a hajDpy
inspiration. But you did not continue
playing ? "

The tables were too crowded. And I
have my own code of signals which tells
me when to go on and when to stop. Thirteen
is not usually a favourable number to
me''

'' You are superstitious then, madame ? "

No, not in the common acceptation of
the word. But I believe that the unseen
universe, like the physical, is governed by
fixed laws, only it requires a sixth sense to
recognise them."

'' You consider that the chances of roulette
are regulated by the Higher Powers ? "

Madame Fanoo slightly elevated her eyebrows.
'Ah ! you speak ironically. What
are the Higher Powers ? We don't know.
But we know there are systems and laws."

"Well," said Mrs. Featlierstone, "my
husband will certainly not exercise his
musical sense with any satisfaction this
evening unless we start off at once. He is
particularly anxious to hear Borghini play
his solo on the violoncello in the first part
of the programme."

The night was clear and balmy  here in
the dimness of road and shrubbery, full of
tender shadows and soft whisperings of leaves
and insects. The air kissed wooingly, and
was laden with a strange fragrance, such as
might be exhaled by some deep-hearted
exotic flower. It was a night that stirred
the soul to sweet, fantastic tumult, and in

which the pulses throbbed in yearning, half
spiritual, half earthly.

Now the party emerged from a shady belt
of garden into the great place. At one
end rose the Casino, its domed roof outlined
against a moonlit sky, with carriages passing
to and fro before the portico, and misty
figures ascending and descending the broad
flight of steps. Innumerable gas lamps shone
like stars in the shadowy space, illuminating
dusky parterre, marble balustrades,
and fountains in play, while here and there,
deepening the surrounding obscurity, the
ghastly rays of an electric globe imparted
a touch of near tidiness to the scene. Stillness
and wild solitude blended curiously with
the fret and fever of human life. The grim
heights, majesties and time-worn, which
towered in the background, looked sullen
sentinels of this pleasure-ground of vice
and frivolity. Nature, serene and chaste,

seemed to rebuke silently the meretricious
devices of Art. Far to the south stretched
the sea, pallid and moon-tipped ; and in the
foreground, relieved by the white gleam of
marble terraces, rose dull groves of eucalyptus
and mimosa, and clumps of feathery
palms.

WHY DO YOU PLAY?

Both Warrencler and Madame Fanoo paused
involuntarily.

"Is it not Thomas Hardy," she said, " who
calls this place, ' a vast cosmopolitan playground,
like a conservatory with the sky for its dome ' ?
and another novelist says that it is ' the moral
sewer of Europe Oh, but one does see and
hear sickening sights and sounds ! I never
believed thoroughly in human degradation till
I beheld it here."

"Yet," exclaimed Warrender impulsively,
'you remain, and you play. Oh. why "

He paused, amazed at his own temerity.
She moved on without speaking, and for some

VOL. I M

moments he fancied lie had offended her. At
last she said abruptly, and with more energy
than she had yet shown :

You might as well ask me why I live 
why I have got the sort of temperament which
makes gambling a necessity to me."

"Perhaps," said Warrender, "the riddle is
not so hard as it seems."

"No," she replied, "I read it by a light of
my own. I saw in some book the other day a
comparison between human beings and stones
set rolling down a hill by an act of determination
over which the stone had certainly
no control. We don't come into the world
of our own accord ; we don't choose which
particular vices or virtues we shall inherit
from our ancestors. I didn't choose to be fond
of play. I am the result of a far reaching chain
of causes and effects, and for me to be different,
the whole world would have had to be different."
That is a depressing theory. I don't like it'*

"Yes it is depressing. I don't like it
either; but I feel its truth."

Then he continued, "There are living forces
with which we come daily into contact. Even
if humanity were composed of irresponsible
atoms there would be play for design in its
grouping. Madame Fanoo, are you one of
those feverish persons who make doubts out
of certainties, and certainties out of doubts ?
Isn't all life a great why ? We know not
whence we come or whither we go : and if
we did, the knowledge would not affect our
present condition. Of what use is it to question
that restless, longing, probing inner / which
laughs at itself, and pities itself? It strains
after pure heights that the body cannot reach,
and beholds with eyes which we cannot blindfold,
the pitiful contrasts and incongruities,
the grim horrors, the grotesque mockeries, the
bitterness, the sweetness, and the pathos, that
make life so tangled a skein ? It will never

M 2

give me a satisfying reply ; yet the very
realisation that there is this part of me, as
real and yet as ethereal as the scent of a
flower, which loves, joys, suffers, nay, even
sins, lifts me above the brute level ; and
the exquisite happiness it brings me, consoles
me also for the pain I endure because
of it."

He was looking at her earnestly. The lights
from the Casino flashed upon her face. The
lips seemed trembling, and parted in a flickering
smile.

I might remind you of Voltaire's comparison
between the immortality of the soul
and the song of a nightingale. But I am not
one of his disciples. And here we are at the
scene of contamination."

As she spoke a carriage drew up at the
entrance and deposited its occupants, a fresh
muscular young English nobleman, his handsome
wife, and the distinguished-looking masculine

attendant who is sometimes considered
a necessity by the woman of society.

The lady paused a moment to address
Madame Fanoo. As she ascended the flight
of steps, Varuna drew back and lingered in
the place.

That trio," she said, " comes here every year.
You should go to Lady Arniston, Mr. Warrender,
and ask her why she gambles. She has
no need of money, and yet I have seen her
clutch her winnings as greedily as the veriest
hag in the Casino. She professes unbounded
devotion to her husband  and also to her friend.
She has charming children, everything: in the
world to make her happy. I have no doubt
that she will chatter complacently about the
vice at Monte Carlo  the vice which she encourages
by her presence and example  and the
misery which she would not alleviate if lie
could. Life would be without zest were there
no tragedies. I know a great many Avoient

like her. There's your  friend Mrs. Feather-stone,
who finds it desirable to pick up the
Monte Carlo jargon which is talked glibly in
some circles. None of them have any sympathy
with the unfortunates, who, driven to
seek distraction from wretchedness, or urged
by a worse necessity, come here year after year
slaves, madwomen  in their sane moments,
loathing the chains they have not power to
break. Don't you know that there's a craving
for excitement as keen as that of the diplomatic
for alcohol ? Don't ask me again why I
remain here. And now let us go in, and you
shall make your own observations."

They entered, and mingled with the motley
throng pacing the vestibule, and breathing the
heavy odours of stale scent and cigarette smoke.
The rooms were even more thronged than in
the afternoon. Lord Bretland approached as
they stood watching the players at trente et
quarante, and spoke to Madame Fanoo with

an air of interest and deferential homage,
Avhicli surprised Warrender, and was in marked
contrast to his usual listless manner,

' I did what you wished and saw your
pensioner off by the rapide from Nice this
morning. She is, now at least, out of temptation's
reach. You may congratulate yourself
upon having rescued a fellow-creature from
something worse than suicide. But Madame
Fanoo," he added, turning to Warrender, " is
one of those persons who do good by stealth
and call it evil."

'' It is you rather who have cause for self-congratulation,"
replied she. " Without your
aid to-day, I should have been powerless.
Thank you. How are the tables going'' She
spoke abruptly, and as if she would have
avoided the subject.

Lord Bretland entered upon a technical
account of the proceedings, which was but half
intelligible to Warrender. At its conclusion.

Madame Fanoo handed the latter a little rouleau
of gold. " Please put it down for me wherever
you choose."

He protested that he was ignorant of the
game, and knew not how the chances were
running.

That is of no consequence. Stake at
haphazard on either red or black."

'* At least let me bank with you, and I shall
have the satisfaction of halving your losses."

No," she replied coldly. " I never bank
with any one."

He watched two or three rounds, then laid
the stake on black. It was doubled ; she
motioned to him to let it remain. The same
result followed again and again ; after the
fourth time, he gathered in, and gave her a
mass of glittering: coin.

Go on," she said. Her eyes were sparkling,
and she smiled at him in a way which set his
nerves tingling. He was so excited that his

fingers trembled as lie gathered up the gold.
There flashed through his mind the recollection
of Lord Bretland's words. Was she then the
victim of a vile enchantment, which he perhaps
might be destined to break ? Nay, were they
not both under a spell ? There was something
horrible in the clink of the gold, the relentless
swaying of the rakes, the impassive tones of
the croupiers. Again that cream-like feeling
overcame him. All the time he was winning
largely. At the first reverse, she stopped
him.

'' That will do. See how prudent I am this
evening. It is only when I stake myself
that I lose, and become desperate, and go on
doubling. Now I shall play no more. Presently,
1 want to talk to you about my sister
Helena. "

She was observing him closely, and noticed
that, as she uttered the name, he seemed to
130 awakened to new and painful consciousness.

His lip quivered, and there was a slight
nervous contraction of his heavy upper eyelid.

'' I know more about you than you perhaps
imagine" she said very softly. "I have the
sixth sense, and I don't think that my instinct
erred when it singled you out this afternoon.
And you have been winning. It
is only those in sympathy with me, who win
for me. You may, if you choose, be my
friend."

It was impossible to smile at the superstitious
credulity which her words betrayed. There
was in her manner a simplicity, an almost
childish appeal, which affected him curiously.
"I could desire no higher distinction," he
exclaimed with earnestness.

She shook her head very sadly.

At this moment General Featherstone interrupted
them. " Madame Fanoo, I know you are
fond of music. Adam's Overture to Gilds
is to be performed presently ; it is worth

hearing. My love," turning to his wife, " will
you not come ? "

* Oh, my dear Edward," cried Mrs., Feather-stone,
" how often must I tell you that I have
really no time for listening to music at Monte
Carlo ? One hears plenty of it in London.
Give me two hundred francs, darling, and meet
us at the restaurant in half-an-hour."

General Featherstone obediently furnished
the required sum, and departed alone, Madame
Fanoo, having excused herself from accompanying
him on the plea that the heat had given
her a headache.

Isn't it a mercy that my husband considers
himself a musical genius I " murmured Mrs.
Featherstone. " He would be bored to death
if he could not go to the concerts and crib
other people's ideas for his own compositions.
Now, Lord Bretland, there are quantities of
people here who have histories written on their
faces. I am told that Cora Pearl is in the

room. Point lier out to me. And who is that"
pale-faced, striking-looking woman in black lace,
with the wonderful eyes, and the diamond star
fastening her bonnet ? I am sure that I have
seen her photograph in the shop windows.
She is the sort of person who makes one
think of Mary Stuart, Cleopatra, and all the
rest of them, don't you know ? A dethroned
queen, for whose sake men would still dare
and die ! There is something about her, which,
if I were a man, would completely turn my
head. It is not only her beauty, but a sort
of recklessness, melancholy mystery  I don't
know what. Tell me her name."

"That, Mrs. Featherstone " Lord Bretland
put up his eyeglass and critically examined
the lady indicated. " That is the famous
Nadine Princess Titchakoff, the most intriguing:
woman in Europe ; still one of the most beautiful
; certainly one of the most fascinating ;
and perhaps, without exception, the most

wretched. Of course you have seen her photograph,
and of course you must have heard
of her in England. A queer story about her
once got into the society papers. But since
then she has made herself even more notorious.
Her house was the rendezvous of the Nihilists.
Prince Titchakoff was arrested and sent to
Siberia, and scandal whispers that she only
escaped sharing his exile through her influence
in political quarters. She arrived here two
days ago. A certain Grand Duke is in attendance.
It is said that the best part of
her life is spent in a morphine stupor. She
lives only when the sun begins to wane.
Unfortunate lady ! Morphine and Monte
Carlo, conspiracy and dynamite ! This is
what these dramatic creatures comes to. Ah,
Mrs. Featherstone, let me give you one word
of advice. Don't cultivate the more subtle
forms of emotion. They are blighting in their
effects."

Mrs. Featherstone was eagerly raking iu
her winnings, and did not appear to have
heard the conclusion of this softly uttered
tirade. Yaruna, who had been conversing
with a heavy moustached Eussian  a man
easily recognised among the motley crowd at
Monte Carlo  turned wearily to Warrender.

'' Will you take me somewhere for a breath
of cooler air ? "

IN THE GARDENS OF THE CASINO.

They walked on to the terrace. The soft
wind from the sea blew caressingly upon
Varuna's face as she leaned upon the balustrade.


Tell me now about Helena."

Warrender hesitated, overpowered by repugnance
to associate the sacred remembrance of
this girl who seemed to him now fjxr away
as one of Heaven's angels, with the varied impressions
and pungent, bewildering sensations
which his brief intercourse with her sister had
wrought in his being. Varuna appeared to
divine his mood.

I understand : you arc unwilling to describe

Helena by commonplaces ; and to clo so in any
other terms would seem  inappropriate. It
is so difficult for a man to speak of a woman
who interests him deeply to a relative of hers,
with whom he is hardly acquainted."

''I do feel this difficulty," answered
Warrender, constrained to frankness by her
searching gaze.

And especially," continued Varuna, " when
the questioner and her surroundings are out of
harmony with the subject of the conversation.
But, since you know my sister intimately, you
must be aware that she has an enthusiastic
attachment to her mother and to me."

It would be quite impossible not to admire
Miss Kilsyth's character," said "Warrender,
speaking with effort : '' her nature is full of
the purest womanly sentiment."

*yet," said Varuna, "from what I remember
of Sir John Kilsyth, there could have been
but little in him to draw this forth. I maybe

prejudiced. He disliked us intensely  my
mother and me  though, to do him justice, I
believe that he never tried to set Helena
against us, but simply ignored our existence.
A narrow-minded fox-hunting squire, to whom
the higher world of thought and imagination
was a closed book. Was it not so ? "

Yes," replied Warrender, thoughtfully.
Their natures were quite unsympathetic, and
I fancy that Miss Kilsyth's confessor, though
I believe him to be a sincere and well-meaning
man, acted as a sort of buffer to keep them
apart. Your sister's life has been barren of
affection. It is not surprising that she should
have lavished her warmest feelings upon her
religion and upon a mother and sister whom
she could only love from a distance."

There is something bitter in your tone,"
said Varuna questioningly. '' Her religion ! Yes,
my sister has a great deal of spiritual fervour ;
she has lived among English Protestants, and

VOL. I. N

has always considered herself cruelly ill-used
in having been separated from my mother,
whom as a fervent Catholic she regards also
as a martyr. You are thinking that her
enthusiasm has been wasted in a dream, and
that soon she will be cruelly awakened from
her illusions. But my mother has a singular
power of winning and retaining affection, and
Helena may not be disappointed. Of course
you know that she is coming to live with us
here."

''To live with you! At Monte Carlo!"
exclaimed Warrender.

*eat Monte Carlo, in our villa yonder. She
will lead our life, unless indeed she be so
independent of will and clear of intellect as
to choose her owen path. She will breathe the
atmosphere of the Casino which you already find
so corrupt ; she will be introduced to our
friends  if we have any friends. She will be
taught to play roulette. It is possible that in

her nature too may lie the seeds of that fatal
passion which has descended from parent to
child. Mr. Warrender, we seem always to get
back to the same point. There is no use in
trying to contend against inherited propensity."

"Oh no, no ! " he said impulsively, and
with real sorrow in his voice. *' Don't speak
in this way. Madame Fanoo, you have got some
morbid idea in your mind which I don't
follow. I wish that I could. I wish that I
could uproot it."

That would be impossible. I will try to
make you understand my bent. You see my
mother, you see me. You don't know the
circumstances of our lives, and these I cannot
tell you ; but I can take you further back.
My great-grandfather was a Frenchman. He
first played away his patrimony, then staked
his honour, and at last  having; nothing]: left
an hour before he was taken to the
guillotine, bartered in a jest his chance of

N 2

heaven. My grandfather, a child then, was

smuggled away to South America. He married

there, and came back. The seeds of gambling

were in him. It is not many years since he

might have been seen in the lowest Paris

cafes working out imaginary systems with

straws and peas, and wearing the word

revenge ' written on his cap. Well, what

can one expect ? Nature cannot be defied.

Mr. Warrender, I would have spared my sister

Helena this ordeal, had it been in my power.

I did make an effort  I offered to winter in

Eome in order that she mioiit be saved from

the contaminating influences of this place.

But it was of no use ; events  everything 

worked against the plan. And now I don't even

wish to go. When a thing is fated, it must

be. To struggle is only waste of energy''

I think you exaggerate the danger ; Miss
Kilsyth's temperament is more self-contained
than you imagine."

Possibly."

But wliy of no use ? " asked Warrender
eagerly, reverting to her former words.

This year, which begins tomorrow, will
be the most critical in my life. It would
be defying destiny were I to attempt to pass
it anywhere but in Monaco. Happiness, peace,
nay, existence itself, for me depend upon the
chances of the gaming-table. You smile at
me. But all the ridicule in the world
wouldn't alter the conviction which has grown
in me with the years. There are times when
one seems to have within one the power of
a prophet or a seer. Often when I am
standing at the roulette table, the feeling
comes over me  a sort of darkness and terror,
and then bright vision. It is as though I
had lived it all before, and it were coming
again surely and swiftly." She paused and
drew in her breath with a little gasp : then
laughed softly. " How strange it is my telling

you all this  but often a stranger makes the
best confessor."

At least," he said, " you may trust me ! "
She laughed again. " Oh ! such confidences
are not sacred. If you repeated them, the worst
people could say of me would be that I am a
little mad ; and probably they say that already.
Do you see my hand ? The moon is so bright
that you might almost read its lines. A longtime
ago in Venice my fate was partially foretold.
You know that the Venetians are adepts in
palmistry. Several of my sibyl's predictions have
been already fulfilled ; why not the rest ? But my
fifround for belief is firmer than that. Character
makes fate ; the sixth sense gives insight into
character. Mine is the true gambler's hand ;
my life the stake with which I play. After this
year I will never enter a gaming room again."

Madame Fanoo, you perplex me strangely,"
said Warrender, almost forgetting Helena in the
interest which her impulsive words excited.

'How?"

He paused before replying. " Your nature is
so noble. Though my knowledge of you can
hardly be measured by hours, I have seen
enough, in trivial incidents  words, gestures 
to assure me that you were created for high
purposes. And surely it is beneath you to
be influenced seriously by the prophecies of a
so-called soothsayer ! "

Ah, so far our minds may march together,
but there we diverge and become
inhabitants of different spheres. Let us leave
the subject. Do you remain long at Monte
Carlo?"

A few weeks perhaps. Possibly only a few
days. Amusement is a very indefinite object,
and it is my only one at present."

'* I had fancied from my sister Helena's
letters, in which she has mentioned you occasionally,
that your objects in life were very
definite."

I had one a short time ago upon which my
career turned. I wished to marry your sister.
Madame Fanoo. you compel candour."

*' I am glad of that  in this case at least. If
even mere acquaintances could sometimes stand
towards each other, * soul to soul, as hand to
hand the world might be a better and happier
place. Now will you admit that sympathy is
beyond what can be seen and touched and
reasoned upon ? I sympathise with you, Mr.
Warrender, though I have no right to do so,
for I have never loved."

She uttered the words, with her eyes turned
seaward, sadly, calmly, as though she were
merely stating a not supremely interesting
fact in her history.

And my sister Helena did not love you ? "
she added slowly.

No. At all events she refused to become
my wife. "

*' Perhaps at her confessor's command. You

are a Protestant, she is a Catholic, and she
is wealthy."

That has been my deep regret. Had we
stood upon the same level her heart might
have had freer play. For I was misguided
enough to fancy that she cared for me, and
that if there were any conflict in her mind,
love would prove victorious. I was entirely
mistaken. Her rejection was so cold and
passionless that I might have been suing at
the feet of one of the saints in her oratory."

'sand you accepted the refusal without
argument or entreaty ? "

A man does not entreat for love. It is
the irresistible impulse towards each other of
two souls  a union in which there is neither
conscious giving nor receiving."

I thought that only poets analysed love.
And you are not a poet ; you are a man of
science. So then, it is true that love transforms
every man into a poet  while the fever

lasts. Love is a fever, is it not  and most
dangerous when caught after first youth."

Varuna spoke dreamily. Her voice seemed
to go sighing to the night as she bent forward
with face upturned and melancholy eyes gazing
at the stars. He watched her, his mind rocked
upon uncertainty, in a vague manner feeling
himself at the mercy of some strange wind or
current which might bear him into unknown
seas. She looked at him suddenly : their eyes
met.

A fever," he repeated absently. " Yes,
perhaps."

I have always observed," said Varuna,
turning to him with her enigmatic smile, " that
men in love take the greatest pains to impress
upon one that love is a kind of spiritual essence
of the most refined quality, unknowable except
from experience, yet the most positive, perfect,
and glorious thing in or out of the world,
while all the time their manner unconsciously

conveys that it is, after all, a most perishable
article, of the earth earthy, and singularly
quick to evaporate."

You offered me your sympathy a few
moments ago," said "Warrender, piqued. " Now
you withdraw it, and make me a butt for
cynicism."

"Oh! am I cynical? I did not mean to be
so. My experience of men in love has been
unfortunate, I suppose. I must not, however,
let you think me quite world-worn. I have
a few illusions, a few faiths left. One is a
faint religious sentiment  I am a Catholic, you
know, though I don't often enter the confessional,
and am not, like my mother, in the
habit of offering up candles to invoke a blessing
upon my play. This would prompt me to
discountenance a marriage between you and my
sister ; but, on the other hand, though I scoff*,
I have a lurking belief in love : and then, has
not instinct pointed you out to me as a friend ?

A great French musician once assured me that
there were but three things in the world worth
living for  ' V amour, Vanities, et le travail.'
Love I know not. Friendship I understand asa
grateful possibility. And work  ah ! that
talisman to guard one against oneself can never
be possessed by me. But trust in my will to
be of service to you. And I have a kind of
right to be interested in your happiness." She
spoke in a different tone, and her voice softened
inexpressibly.

The strongest right " he began.

Oh no. You don't quite understand me. I
did not mean in the conventional sense. In that
I have none. But instinct establishes a kind of
claim. Sympathy, however, presupposes community
of experience. To feel another's sorrow
one must have suffered in like manner."

Then you, madame  have you been so
fortunate as not to know suffering ? "

"Oh, I have been wretched, most miserable

at times. But not in the way you have
suffered of late. You know I said that I had
never loved. If, as I suspect, Helena loves you,
and has been coerced in the matter by her priest,
you shall know the truth ; and I will help you
to be happy as far as lies in my power.
Come, let us join the others now."

She moved on ; while he, bewildered by the
rapid variations in her manner, was almost glad
to be spared the necessity for replying.

They found Mrs. Featherstone, her husband,
Lord Bretland and some others, who were to join
the New Year's Eve party, sipping iced drinks
outside the restaurant, and professing readiness
to return to the hotel.

ENTER COLONEL CAZALETTE.

The clock had struck half-past eleven when
they entered Mrs. Feathers one's drawing-room.
The room was decorated with flowers, the table
laid, and Mrs. Kilsyth and Mr. Braunstein,
assisted by a waiter, were engaged in the concoction
of punch. Mrs. Kilsyth asked eagerly
for news of the evening's proceedings.

*' A run on red," she cried, in her odd,
excitable manner, " and I was not there ! Alas !
alas ! my doll is stuffed with sawdust. I'll get
me to a nunnery  oh these difficulties of life
are hard to support ! Well," she added, making
a little grimace at her daughter, '' this naughty
child who was obliged to stay at home has won

a great deal of love and no money. I hope that
the stern mamma has been more fortunate."
Madame Fanoo, the play of whose features
was becoming to Warrender a source of the
deepest interest, smiled much as an indulgent
parent might smile upon an unreasonable
daughter, whose vagaries might be met with
amused toleration but were at the same time a
source of sorrow and perplexity. She placed
before her mother a little case containing a
rouleau of gold.

There is my New Year's ]present. You see
that I wish to make amends for my harshness
though I ought to say that it is Mr. Warrender
who deserves your thanks, for I owe my hick
to him."

Mrs. Kilsyth fingered the coins with the
enjoyment of a child to whom a new plaything
has been presented. '' Now, for a few hours at
least," she exclaimed, "I am independent of my
bankers. Money, as Buller says  General

Featherstone, I am quite aware that accuracy
in quotation is not my strong point ; but, like
your wife, I have a mind above small details 
Money is dower, love also ; for even gratitude
can be bought by money.' That was a man who
understood life and its requirements. And now
let us stir the punch."

Several other guests had dropped in, and the
room resounded with conversation and laughter.

De punch is ready ! " cried the German
gentleman, who had been assiduously flourishing
the ladle. '' It wants but one thing, and dat
i? drinking."

Madame Fanoo had moved apart and stood by
the open window, her thoughtful eyes gazing
into the moonlit garden.

The minute-hand pointed towards midnight.

"I see him; he is coming!" cried Mr.
Braunstein. "He is a beautiful beetle New
Year ! He is small and thin and lovely. Beetle
New Year, I drink your health ! and I ask you

to give us all the best of good things  health,
wealth and happiness ! "

A faint chime sounded in the distance, and
echoed through the salon. There was a momentary
pause. Then glass clinked prettily
against glass. Every face round the table smiled,
yet underlying the surface brightness there was
upon each a shade of pensiveness. Mrs.
Feather stone turned from Lord Bretland to
whisper softly in her husband's ear with a
sweetness which seemed to declare that an effete
civilisation had not robbed her heart of its
bloom. General Featherstone, standing erect
at the head of the table, gave forth the toast
with an air of old-fashioned solemnity, and ina
few appropriate words  ' To the New Year,
and may he bring to all who welcome him here,
health, happiness and prosperity."

No one observed while the toast was being
drunk, and the youngest born of Time ushered
into his kingdom, that Warrender and Madame

VOL. I.

Fanoo, half shrouded by the window drapery,
stood together lending no voice to the invocation.


There was silence between them. It was she
who first broke it. " We are outcasts. The
New Year has passed by us, and we have made
no effort to gain his favour. Mr. Warrender
I won't offer you the conventional greetings. I
won't venture to prophesy that you will win the
woman you love. My blessing might be ill-omened,
and carry only bitterness and
misfortune. "

The assurance of your goodwill, Madame
Fanoo, is worth more than prophecies. You said
a little while ago that I had brought you luck
to-day. At least, you will not think my words
meaningless if I say from my heart that I hope
this critical year may bring you happiness."

happiness," she repeated. "Not riches, not
prosperity, but the one impossible thing in all
the world  for me. It is a question of

temperament, Mr. Warrender. Only tranquil
people are happy, and my disposition is one
of unrest."

She moved towards the laughing circle. The
light of the chandelier fell upon her as she stood
sheathed in her crimson mantle, with the grave,
troubled look ageing and hardening her face.

Varuna," cried Mrs. Kilsyth, " neither you
nor Mr. Warrender have drunk to the New Year.
How can you expect to be fortunate in your
future undertakings ? Come, the punch is
excellent. Mr. Braunstein and I deserve to
be complimented upon our skill."

Madame Fanoo folded her arms and shook her
head.

Too late, mother. Mrs. Featherstone, I am
not an amiable guest, but you will forgive me
if I leave you ; my head still aches from the
heat of the Casino."

There was a universal remonstrance. "Not
yet, Madame Fanoo," said General Featherstone,

0*2

striking some familiar chords upon the piano.
My wife has a few sentimental regrets on the
score of her native land. Let us drink to the
health of absent friends, and you will lead us
in the solo of, ' Auld Lang Syne.' "

But I should not do so with any fervour.
Sentiment is a quality which I don't possess. I
have no native land, no pleasing associations
with the past, no absent friends to regret."

As the words passed her lips Warrender
observed that she lifted her eyes suddenly, and
started, growing visibly paler. An exclamation
half rose, and was checked. Following her look
he perceived the figure of a stranger in the
doorway, a tall man of foreign aspect, with
delicate aquiline nose, clear sallow face, close-cropped
Vandyke beard, and full, slightly prominent
grey eyes, which surveyed the group
with a smiling, benignant expression.

Colonel Cazalette ! " ejaculated Mrs.
Kilsyth, in a tone low, but sufficiently

audible to startle Warrender. She moved
abruptly from the table ; and, almost as if she
wished for the moment to avoid recognition,
took up her position slightly behind the
Englishman. He noticed that she appeared
discomposed, and placed a chair for her in
the embrasure of the window. Her hands
trembled. She appeared conscious that she
was betraying an unwarrantable excitement.

I have a weak heart," she murmured ;
any sudden arrival always upsets me. Mr.
Warrender," she went on, with that sudden
droop of her mouth and composing of her
features which he had before noticed, while she
spoke in an even rapid tone, her eyes fixed all
the time upon Colonel Cazalette. " I have not
as yet been able to ask you any questions. I
have heard of you from my daughter Helena.
You and Helena are interested in each other ! "

I am interested in Miss Kilsyth," corrected
Warrender.

'' And she in you. Oh yes, I assure you she
mentioned you frequently ; but a friendship of
that kind never outlasts the marriage of either
of the persons concerned. Now tell me, Mr.
Warrender, is there any likelihood of my
daughter's marriage ? "

"None that I know of, Mrs. Kilsyth. At
present it seems most improbable."

'' You are sure of that ? How you relieve me !
I dreaded the Protestant influence and  She has
perhaps said to you that she would only marry
a Catholic ? "

Miss Kilsyth has certainly expressed that
determination," said George stiffly.

Ah, the Cardinal will rejoice. Cardinal

you perhaps know him. He is here  a great friend
of Colonel Cazalette and of my own." Her tone
changed suddenly. " I thought Colonel Cazalette
was at Paris," she said, almost fiercely. " Lord
Bretland told me that he was not to be here for a
week yet. But I am very glad "  with a furtive

glance at Warrender  "very glad indeed. Do
you know Colonel Cazalette ? He is a delightful
person ! an old friend of ours, and so zealous 
the most perfect combination of the world and
the Church  not that he is in the Church  oh.
no, of course not ; but so devout  and such an
admirable photographer." She repeated the last
sentence with an intensity which strengthened
Warrender s doubts as to her sanity  " such
an admirable photographer ! "

Meanwhile the new comer had advanced,
bowing with the sweetest courtesy and self-possession.
" Ah, Madame Fanoo, I am grieved
to hear that cruel statement uttered by you.
But I am here to prove myself a present, and not
an absent friend. Mrs. Featherstone, accept my
apologies for this intrusion. I arrived only an
hour ago, and have ventured to claim the privileges
of our last year's acquaintanceship in
Paris that I might offer you my congratulations
and best wishes for the new year."

I must say," exclaimed Mrs. Featherstone,
delighted as I am to see you, Colonel Cazalette,
that your words are more soothing to the nerves
than your actions. There is something very
uncanny and Mephistopheles-like in this sudden
midnight apparition. Are we all acting in a
melodrama, and have we been going through an
appropriate New Year's Eve prologue ? First
of all, Mr. Warrender drops down from the
clouds. Secondly, Madame Fanoo, with his
assistance, makes an extraordinary coup.
Thirdly, at the close of the first act, enter
Colonel Cazalette : the hero of the piece. Here
we are. The principal personages occupy the
stage : a becomingly diversified chorus ranges
itself in the rear. Lord Bretland, you and I
are the nonentities, whose part in the drama is
to fill in gaps and furnish cues. Festive scene :
a faint suggestion of tragedy in the background.
Strike up, Edward. The chorus advances."
She placed herself in a theatrical attitude.

Lord Bretland followed suit. Mr. Braunstein
ladled out several glasses of punch, and with
comic gravity presented one to each of the
chorus. Madame Fanoo's stately greeting to
Colonel Cazalette was drowned by the ringing
notes of the drinking-song in Traviata, which,
led by Mrs. Featherstone, pealed through the
salon.

But the night had changed. A wind had
risen with apparent suddenness, and, sweeping
chilly through the open window, extinguished
one of the candles upon the supper-table. The
slight occurrence seemed to heated imaginations
ominous. Mrs. Kilsyth shuddered, and Mr.
Braunstein stepped back and closed the window.
The operatic music swelled louder. An element
of affectation and artificial mirth replaced the
former sweet, subdued gaiety. Shadows, moonlight,
vague sentiment, tender memories of the
dying year  all had vanished. The spirit of the
scene had assumed another shape, and it was

curious to reflect that Colonel Cazalette, with
his saint-like profile and courtly bearing, was the
magician to whose entrance the transformation
was clue. Varuna also appeared to have caught
the infection of the hour. Her welcome to
Cazalette had struck Warrender as cold and
constrained. Her air had been haughty and
listless. Now she took up her part in the scene,
and sang and acted the duet with Cazalette after
a fashion which would not have disgraced a
professional singer. Presently she turned
towards her mother, who still held herself in
the background, and with charming cordiality
indicated Cazalette's presence.

Mrs. Kilsyth rose, held out her hand, and
made two or three wandering remarks with a
forced sprightliness which was but a poor imitation
of her former vivacity. Her manner might
have passed currency with any less interested
observers than Varuna and AVarrender. As it
was she looked uneasy, and there passed through

his mind a startled sense of something amiss.
Cazalette with perfect tact, and with an air of
tender protectiveness that was intended to
appeal vicariously to Yaruna, drew Mrs. Kilsyth
slightly aside and discoursed upon agreeable
nothings till she had apparently quite recovered
her composure. The rest of the party had
gathered round the piano. Again Warrender
and Madame Fanoo stood apart.

''My mother is not quite herself to-night,"
remarked the latter in a disturbed tone. " We
have not seen Colonel Cazalette for some years ;
and he is connected with an event which shook
my mother's nerves sadly. I mean the death
of my husband."

As she spoke the last sentence without a sigh
or falter, Varuna turned her thoughtful gaze
full upon AVarrender as though she wished him
to learn from it the secret of her lonely,
troubled life.

NEW year's greetings.

Warrender slept badly that night.

The partitions in the Eiviera hotels are thin,
and he fancied that there came from the room
next that which he occupied a sound as of
suppressed weeping. The thought disturbed
him, and, after his first troubled doze, banished
slumber. When silence fell upon that part of
the house he was still restless, and full of
strange excitement.

It seemed to him that since three o'clock that
afternoon he had experienced sensations which
might give piquancy to a lifetime. He was
not prone to self-analysis. His tendencies lay
towards action rather than introduction ; but

to-night this very nature seemed unliingecl, and
woncleT at the rapid transformation from listless
despondency to vivid interest, which had taken
place in his being, forced him into a groove of
thought foreign to his character. Why the
change ? He knew not. Helena, the pivot
upon which a few weeks since existence had
appeared to turn, was not now more near to him
than when  pale, still, and without sign of
strong emotion  she had bidden him leave her.
They were parted for ever. She had never
loved him. Probably now she bestowed upon
him no tenderer thought than a passing regret
for the pain she had caused him. No, she
had never loved him. In his fit of reaction,
after the blind confidence which had
so misinterpreted her sweet friendliness and shy
consciousness of a peculiar link between them,
he had so dwelt upon this idea that it had
become a conviction. Yet Madame Fanoo's
insinuation of priestly coercion, though by no

means a new suggestion, took fresh shape in
his mind, and opened the door to torturing hopes
and bewildering fears. He stood again on the
borderland of pain and rapture. His memory
was a chaos of confused impressions, in which
past and present contradicted each other, and underlying
all was the feeling that some subtle and
extraordinary transformation had taken place in
himself. He seemed to be gazing at Helena
with regretful eyes across a gulf which ardent
longing hardly bridged. He had changed. But
how, and why ?

And she was coming to Monte Carlo. In a
short time, if he remained, he must be again
thrown closely into her society. Would it not
be the truest wisdom to accept his fate, and to
make a supreme effort to stifle vain regrets in
fresh and absorbing occupation ? The horizon of
life was not bounded by love, nor was he a
puling boy to be crushed by a first disappointment.
Granted that Helena Kilsyth was the

one woman in the world whom he would ever
call wife, the pursuit of science and exploration
still possessed charms, and at least friendship
remained to him for consolation.

The thought of friendship evoked Madame
Fanoo's image, if, indeed, during the long night
watches, it could be said to have ever faded
into indistinctness. There was in her attitude
towards him something of appeal which touched
all that was most chivalrous in his nature.
Apart from her irresistible fascination, she had
the claim of being Helena's sister ; the claim
of a woman helpless and dumbly seeking to be
rescued from herself ; that of a victim to an
inherited morbid tendency for which she could
hardly be held responsible.

His imagination dwelt upon Varuna's superstitious
belief that the new-born year would
for weal or woe decide her destiny, and upon
Mrs. Peatherstone's laughing suggestion of a
play in which each of them was to act a more

or less important part. Cazalette, too, stirred
his curiosity. Setting aside his presumable
connection with the fate of Mrs. Kilsyth and
her daughter, there was something in the very
appearance of the man  in his mediaeval face ;
in his sweet suavity  tinged also by mystery
and reserve ; in the subtle sense of intellect
and influence with which he impressed the most
casual observer  that made him seem a determining
power in the faintly outlined drama
which now thrilled Warrender's fancy.

No, he would not go  not yet. He would
remain at least till Helena's arrival.

Thus the dark hours passed on slowly.
Daylight found him sleepless and weary. He
threw the Venetians wide open. The sun was
rising upon the first day of the new year.
Mists were rolling away, and distant peaks
flushing a tender rose. Every breath smelt
sweetly. A myriad dew-drops sparkled on
every tree and shrub. The hills seemed to

have barely awakened from sleep  their crest
clear, but the shadows as of dreamland still
lingering upon the olive groves. Monaco lay
shrouded in a transparent veil of vapour. A
breeze ruffled the Mediterranean, and to the
west every wavelet was tipped with gold.

Warrender rose and dressed. Only drowsy
servants, and men going forth on early errands,
with holiday garments not yet donned, passed
him as he made his way along the corridor and
through the hotel garden. He wandered into
the grounds of the Casino and stood again upon
the terrace where Madame Fanoo had made her
strange confession the night before  "/ have
never loved'' He seemed to hear the words as
she had uttered them, calm, distinct, and
mournful. Spoken by another woman they
might have borne no deep significance. From
her lips they revealed a mental desert of drcnry
hopelessness which made him shudder. It was
pitiful to reflect that her pulses had never

VOL. 1. P

throbbed to any sweeter or diviner agitation
than the feverish excitement of gambling ; that
her holiest instincts and purest aspirations
should be smothered by this growth of baleful
thought which could surely only flourish in the
corrupt atmosphere she now breathed.

There was in Warrender's nature a certain
old-world simplicity and impulse towards
knightliness somewhat out of harmony with
the age in which he lived. For him, womanhood
had a peculiar sanctity ; and love, truth,
and purity were definite realities, often obscured
by modern shams, but still existing. It was
his theory that civilisation had tended to debase
rather than to elevate the weaker sex. All his
chivalry rose in defence or justification of the
falsity and frivolity with which women are
usually charged. Men and society were in
fault, not they, who under ideal conditions
should be neither more nor less than wives,
mothers, and saints. To reform the world he

would have begun by reforming women. At
present, the object of his yearning solicitude,
Madame Fanoo, seemed the one woman to be 
not reformed  but restored to her better self.

The gardens were deserted save for a bonne,
a group of black-eyed, fantastically dressed
children  French babies ; good heavens ! how
out of place would the clear-browed, frank-faced
English boy or girl appear amid these surroundings
!  and a sallow, haggard-eyed gambler of
the night before, who sat upon one, of the
benches in an attitude of dejection, and gave
the impression that he was reflecting upon
the most convenient mode of committing
suicide.

The sun was now considerably above the
horizon. The mountains had lost the ethereal
hues of early morning, and the sea was a
sheet of silver. Warrender strolled round by
the terraces, his senses drinking in the beauty
and fragrance on all sides of him, and presently

P 2

began to skirt the sea, walking along the
Condamine road and finally ascending the
steep hill which leads to the fortress of
Monaco.

He lingered in the quiet streets of the old
town, delighting in the contrast they presented
to the glittering quarter he had quitted. Now
he paused at the point of the promontory and
took a view of the narrow thoroughfare he had
traversed. His mind was still unconsciously
occupied by Madame Fanoo, and it was with
hardly a start of surprise that he beheld the lady
herself advancing from the opposite direction.

She did not see him. Her eyes were cast
down, her thoughts evidently preoccupied ; she
walked with a slow, undulating gait, which in
the crowded Casino he had had no opportunity
of admiring. In her hands she carried a basket
and a bouquet of flowers. When within a few
yards of him, she stopped at the closed door of
a baker's shop, where the brown twisted loaves

hung on nails on the wall, knocked, and after
a moment entered.

He waited in the hope of seeing her emerge,
but several minutes elapsed and there was no
sign of her reappearance. He turned, half
angry with himself for his curiosity *' Why
should T play the detective in this fashion ? "
he murmured, and walked resolutely away, past a
little thicket of umbrella dines, whence zig-zag
paths led downward from terrace to terrace,
each planted with flowering shrubs and beautiful
with the luxuriance of semi-tropical vegetation.
Here natural situation enhanced all that labour
could accomplish : palms waved their feathery
plumes, and the bright crimson of geraniums,
the blue-green of aloes, and pink of mesembryanthemum
stood out vividly against an intensely
Due sea. Two or three gnarled olive trees
and stone-pines, and an occasional glimpse ot
rough clockwork overgrown with weeds, gave
wildness to the scene and added to the sense

of solitude. Far away were the promontory
of Antibes and the distant range of the
Esteems ; and on the sea, white sails like gulls
were already scudding.

Warrender seated himself upon a semicircular
bench turned from the road, and, with a
curious feeling of distance and transference
of interest, bent his thoughts towards an
expedition he was planning in the future for
the purpose of studying the flora and fauna
of the Southern Archipelago.

He had not been meditating long when the
faint rustle of a dress upon the gravel near
brought him back to Monte Carlo. Madame
Fanoo was standing close beside him. She
looked surprised, but did not hold out her
hand as he rose and approached her.

So you have found out these gardens
already'' she said with a smile. "They area
favourite resort of mine, and are far more
beautiful than anything at the Casino. I know

every turn, almost every plant. But you
Lave not chosen your seat well. If you like, I
will show you my especial nook. It is on a
lower terrace and quite screened from the road."

She led the way down a rudely cut flight
of steps on to a narrow level, descending by
a steep wall straight to the sea, its only
parapet a hedge of mingled aloes and geraniums.
At one end a kind of grotto had been scooped
in the rock ; a tiny stream trickled through
it and watered banks of moss and fern. Here
was a bench upon which Madame Fanoo seated
herself. The cliff against which Warrender
leaned formed a sheltering background. At
its base were beds of violets in full bloom
scenting the air.

One might imagine oneself a long way
from Monte Carlo," said Warrender. "But
I did not expect that you would have risen
so early, Madame Fanoo, after your fatigue of
last night."

Oh, after a wakeful night, nothing refreshes
one so much as a stroll before the dew has
dried up. We must have left the hotel almost
together, Mr. Warrender. But I came by the
higher road, and I went into the church by
the ravine to offer up a new year's prayer
for my little girl."

I saw you a few minutes ago in the
street yonder."

At the hunchback baker's, who is quite
an interesting person in his way. I must
introduce you to him at some future time. I
have a weakness for the bread of the country,
and very often carry home one of the brown
sour twists ; and there is a little lame boy
there whom it would not do to forget on
New Year's day."

Madame Fanoo, I begin to see that Lord
Bretland was quite right in what he said of
you yesterday evening. You make a jest of
benevolence, yet you practise it largely."

She flushed slightly. " No, I do not jest
at benevolence ; it is too rare  that is, when
it is purely unselfish. My visit to the lame
boy does not deserve the name. I am very
fond of children. This is a pleasant spot,"
she added, as though wishing to change the
subject. " One can be as lonely as one pleases
here. So few of the crowd from Monte Carlo
visit these gardens. I often come to this seat
with my book, or with no companion but my
thoughts, and spend hours trying to reconcile
facts and fancies."

Successfully ? "

Need you ask ? Life is a strange problem,
Mr. Warrender. That remark is not original,
is it ? It has been made once or twice before ;
but the truth of it always stands out just as
forcibly as ever. One sees such a mass of
incongruous elements which cannot by art or
nature be made to blend or harmonise. Talk
of free will! There's no such things One

fancies sometimes that it would be so easy to
wrench oneself away from what is hurtful or
degrading or even simply disagreeable, and
lead just the kind of life which would develop
one's few good qualities ; but that is exactly
what is impossible."

"Oh, no, Madame Fanoo," said Warrender
earnestly. " It can never be impossible to
separate oneself from what is hurtful"

Yes,' it is quite impossible. I know of
what you are thinking. As I lay awake last
night I thought of your question to me,
why I stayed here and played. I wondered
what had made me talk to you as unreservedly
as I did. I don't remember ever
having spoken in the same way to any one
before."

Perhaps," said Warrender impetuously,
"you had a fancy that I might help you. I
beg your pardon," he added. " That was a
presumptuous sort of thing to say."

There was no rebuke in her look ; rather, a
faint gleam of satisfaction.

*'I am glad that you said it. If there
were any presumptuousness it would lie in
my having had such a fancy. Yet it was
just what I did feel. I am very candid, but
there is an answering candour about you, Mr.
Warrender, which makes me think that it
would be quite possible to apply to you if I
were in need."

I wish that you would act upon that
feeling ; and you would see " He paused.

"See what?"

I don't suppose that I could really help
you, but at least my best faculties would be
strained in the attempt."

She was silent for a moment, then she said
deliberately : '' But I am not in need  not,
that is, in any definite sense."

*' There is an indefinite kind of want which
is harder to bear than material trouble  the

need of sympathy and fellowship ; of faith in
oneself and in the goodness of others ; of
an object upon which to concentrate one's
thouo'lits and interests."

o

"You think that I have all these wants 
that I am unhappy ? "

*I have no right to judge, but your words
and looks make me fancy so."

She stooped and gathered a little bunch
of violets, with which she played while she
answered him.

"But I have an object in life  several.
In the first place, I am of use to my mother.
Nothing would induce her to leave Monte
Carlo ; and I am at least able to restrain her
from some extravagances. Then, to a certain
extent, I have inherited her temperament. I
am more self-controlled, more calculating, less
warm-hearted, but in essentials we are alike.
I have a passion for play. It's the same sort
of fascination as that which danger has for

some natures. You could not understand the
fever of excitement which took possession of
me last night when you were winning. I
don't know what made me stop you. But a
feeling came over me all in a moment  of
shame, hatred, and horror  horror of the
future."

She had been looking away from him, and
now, with a startled glance that seemed to
behold a phantom in his solicitude, met his
eyes, which were fastened upon her face in
sad inquiry. She laughed nervously.

My talk is very melodramatic  quite in
keeping with the moral atmosphere of Monte
Carlo."

*' Oh pray go on  if you will trust me.
Any trouble or dread of that kind is best
spoken of."

It is not an unreasonable dread, as you
would admit if you knew the whole history of
my family, and understood me as well as I

understand myself. Oh, no ; I am wrong to
say that. I do not understand myself. I think
self-analysis is my bane. If I could only live
in the present, if I hadn't a dreary and perpetual
sense of dissatisfaction with my life, I
might perhaps escape from the horror which
haunts me. I try to keep the spectre at bay,
but it looks out at me from my own face and
from the faces of my friends. I see myself as
I may be years hence  one of those horrible
hags whom you may have noticed at the tables
a more pitiable object than they  with the
curse of insanity upon me."

She rose abruptly and moved to the edge of
the terrace, where she stood with pale cheeks,
lips compressed, and brooding eyes fixed seaward.
He followed her, his face, too, white
from repressed excitement.

You must not say that ! " he exclaimed
agitatedly. " It is not true. You must not ;
it hurts me to hear you."

She turned towards him, and the eyes of
each seemed to be searching into the soul of
the other.

I see that you are in earnest ! " she said.
"You must love Helena very dearly to feel so
deep an interest in her half-sister  a woman
whom you have only known for a few hours."

Her words thrilled Warren der painfully. He
would have found it impossible to analyse the
sensation, had he tried to do so, but was quite
aware that it was a disagreeable one. An eager
disclaimer rose involuntarily to his lips, and
was checked by embarrassing consciousness.
Madame Fanoo seemed to guess at the cause of
his confusion, and said with a smile which was
also tinged with melancholy :

The obvious answer to that remark would
be, I suppose, that I am a person who must
under any circumstances inspire interest. But
do not, I beseech you, talk to me with that
conventional sort of gallantry which your sex

practises so largely. There are so many men
ready to swear away their lives at my feet 
absolutely not one whom I can call friend. My
sister's lover might fill a place which my own
lover could never fill. Your frankness last night
about your feeling for Helena seems to place
our relations towards each other upon such a
safe footing ; and notwithstanding all you may
have heard about me here, it is quite true that
I find great comfort in that certainty."

This speech, in which there was without doubt
no underlying emotion, grated curiously upon
Warrender. He answered hastily : *' You spoke
just now of the objects which you had in life.
It was absurd in me to fancy for a moment that
I could help you. I am weak too  if you are
weak  and tossed by every wave of feeling.
My position is more lonely than yours, and 1
stand at a disadvantage  a great one for a man.
I don't know much about society or the world
your world  or in what direction lies the

special need for sympathy, of the people who
live in it. I am adrift, with all my experience
to learn  and no friends. You have  acquaintances
shall we say  who at least wish to devote
themselves to you. You have your mother
and your child."

Is my experience of Life greater than
yours ? Yes, perhaps, of the evil of it, the
sort of evil that belongs to an unwholesome
moral atmosphere, and comes from gas, glitter,
strained emotions  everything that is false
and artificial. I long sometimes to rush away
and try to get into bracing air. That kind
of knowledge only saddens and embitters.
Don't let us compare our lives, Mr. AVarrender.
It is quite enough that they are both unsatisfactory
: mine from within ; yours from without.
But you will not be unhappy for long.
Even if you never get what you long for,
you have within yourself a stronghold against
badness and sorrow. The past and future

VOL. I. Q

are not horrors at which you dare not
glance. '

Her voice broke slightly. He saw her eyes
grow larger and softer with unshed tears. His
heart rose in struggling entreaty and protest.
At that moment a step sounded upon the
rocky stair. Both looked round. The shadow
thrown upon the cliff revealed the intruder
before he himself became visible. It was
Cazalette.

Madame Fanoo moved a few steps uncertainly,
as if in doubt whether to advance or retreat.
The softness died from her face. She flung
away the bunch of violets with which she had
been nervously toying, as though in the action
she would have thrown off" the mood which had
prompted her self-betraying words. Once more
she became the stately woman of the world,
cold, weary, inscrutable.

Cazalette stepped forward, his suave impassive
countenance giving no indication of surprise or

consciousness that lie had disturbed a private
conversation.

He bowed over the hand Madame Fanoo offered
him ; and in a few well-chosen words made
something more than the conventional speech
of New Year's congratulation. Varuna coldly
uttered her thanks and returned the greeting.

It is five years to-day, madame," continued
Cazalette, '' since u23on this very spot I had the
honour of wishing you happiness, prosperity, and
farewell. I did not expect the good fortune
of seeing you here this morning."

"For that you must thank Mr. Warrender,"
replied Varuna  " if it be a question of thanks.
I was going home, when I saw him, as I passed,
seated upon the most uncomfortable bench in the
gardens. He looked as though he wanted to
enjoy his thoughts in solitude ; it was an act of
charity to show him where he might do so
happily. Now, having earned his gratitude, I
will ask you, Colonel Cazalette, to call me a

Q 2

carriage if you can see one passing, for
I don't feel equal to the long walk in the
heat."

Willingly," said Cazalettc. '' ,l\\ Surrender,
shall I disturb your meditations if, after a short
stroll round the castle, I come back and smoke
a cigarette in your company ? In my American
wanderings I met one or two men who knew
you well ; and I was much interested in what I
heard of your discoveries. It won't bore you,
will it, to have a little chat presently ? "

Warrender felt an unreasonable desire to
excuse himself, but good breeding and a sense
of guilt forbade the inclination ; and he assured
Colonel Cazalette of the pleasure which he
should derive from his company.

You are wise to drive home," said Cazalette
turning to Madame Fanoo. " I have already
seen Mrs. Kilsyth, who begged me, if I met
you, to give you a reminder that there is to
be an excursion this afternoon ; in which," he

added, " I have been honoured by an invitation
to accompany you."

'' Ah ! " said Varuna ; " that recalls to my
mind a note for you, Mr. Warrender, which I
have in my j'ket, and which was to have
been given to the concierge this morning. It
is only to ask if you will join us in our
expedition. We are going to make gipsy tea
at Cape Martin. The Casino is closed to-day,
and we are people without an occupations

Warrender accepted the invitation with an
eagerness which he regretted dien he perceived
the curious expression which flitted
across Cazalette's face.

Good-bye then for the present," said Varuna.
"You will join us in our salon at three
o'clock  "

QUART POT TEA.

Madame Fanoo was alone in lier salon when
Warrender was announced. The room was
charming, and had an air of occupation and
long residence not common to the ordinary
hotel sitting-rooms. He made some remark to
this effect.

Yes, we brought a few things with us,
and have contrived to give it a homelike
look," she answered. " The drains at our via
are being overhauled, but I hope that we
shall be settled there again before my sister
arrives'

"When do you expect Miss Kilsyth ? "
asked Warrender.

"It is not quite certain. I think in about
ten days or a fortnight. Thus, Mr. Surrenders'
she added with an effort at playfulness,
if Cannes or Nice have any attractions for
you, I advise you to visit them at once and
return here later."

No," he replied. " In that case, I should
remain here for the next fortnight and then
go to Cannes or Nice."

I think you are wrong," she said gently.
*' But there is time enough for you to change
your mind."

You play and sing ? " he said, abruptly indicating
the open piano. " Of course  I heard
you last night."

Yes, but very seldom. My mother sings
charmingly, even still, and has been practising
this morning. But I can't be contented with a
thing done in amateur fashion ; and to do
anything else means consecrating one's life to
what perhaps is not worth it. I always want

the full taste of everything. I am afraid that
I have no capacity of getting interested ina
study or pursuit. And I cannot give expression
to the thoughts struggling within mein
music. I only lose myself, in that way,
when I am listening to the violin or to an
organ."

"You draw or paint, perhaps ?"

*' No ; I tried once  but it doesn't satisfy me."

"Then you read?"

What a catechism ! And I am obliged to
make the humiliating confession that books have
not a great charm for me. When I was a girl I
used to be very fond of reading, but as soon as I
began to live myself, the taste left me. Science
and positive facts seemed too immense to grapple
with. A human heartbreak is of more consequence
than the sun's component parts. You
don't think so ; well, it appears so to me. I'd
rather be helped by the honestly told experience
of one human soul, than by all the facts and

theories in the universe, and all the books that
were ever written."

She moved to the window and stood, drawing
on her long gloves, gazing out upon the western
sky. She wore a closely fitting mantle bordered
with sable. A little fur cap set upon her abundant
hair, and a cluster of tea roses fastened at
her throat, gave her a coquettish air quite at
variance with her morning's aspect.

The day has become overcast," she said. " It
is almost a relief after the overpowering glare.
I sometimes wish for the subdued tones and
grey skies which I remember in England. One
wearies of this vivid Riviera colouring."

You have not been in England for a longtime
? "

'' Not since my stepfather's death eleven years
ago. I was only seventeen when I left it.
There, Mr. Warrender, I have told you a secret
which most women would guard jealously. That
is a simple sum in addition, and the product

will give you my age. But there are social
philosophers who maintain that a woman is in
the zenith of her charms at thirty."

At any rate," said Mrs. Kilsyth, entering,
'' no woman ever gets beyond that age as long
as she has a shred of good looks remaining.
Haven't you observed that every frisky matron
one meets was married at sixteen ? Don't you
admire our flowers, Mr. AVarrender ? Two of
these bouquets arrived from Paris this morning."

And this one ? " asked Warren der, pointing
to a magnificent floral trophy that completely
covered the small table which supported it.

Oh, that ! From Nice, I imagine. It was
Colonel Cazalette's New Year's gift to me.
Those full-blown camellias are very appropriate
to my mature charms. Now there's a sentiment
about his little offering to Yaruna which suggests
quite a different idea."

She stretched her hand towards a quaintly-shaped
vase of old Venetian glass, in which

were loosely placed a mass of yellow roses
drooping upon their stems ; then, rebuked by
her daughter's glance, rattled on :

'' Come ; I hear the bells of Mrs. Feather-stone's
ponies jingling. There is the inevitable
Lord Bretland pursuing his system of education.
General Featherstone, tacked on to our' new
drawing-room prima-donna, Miss Violet Rochford,
and provided with a motif, is happily
bent upon self improvement also. Now we are
going to be truly arcadian  music and sentiment
; tea under the pines ; wild flowers,
singing birds, and all the rest of it ; only,
unfortunately, there are no birds hereabouts,
they've substituted Cupids instead."

Mrs. Kilsyth was in her most light-hearted
vein. When Colonel Cazalette appeared she
welcomed him with cordiality, greeting him in
an informal way, which suggested that they had
met before that day, and thanking him prettily
for his attention. There remained no trace of

the confusion, almost alarm, which she had
exhibited upon his arrival the night before. If
there had been any doubt in the mind of either
as to their attitude towards each other, they
had evidently arrived at an understanding, and
the only signs of anxiety which Mrs. Kilsyth
displayed were an occasional furtive glance
directed towards his face, and a nervous start
which she now and then gave when he addressed
her suddenly.

Conversation flowed freely as the open landau
in which these four where seated, bowled swiftly
along the pretty sea-girt road towards ]\Ientone.
Its burden was sustained chiefly by Cazalette,
who discoursed with the fluency of a travelled,
well educated man bent upon making himself
agreeable. Mrs. Kilsyth's questions were
numerous, and her chatter might have been
likened to that of an elderly, cultivated parrot ;
she seemed uneasy when a moment's silence fell
upon the group. Madame Fanoo spoke little,

and it must be owned that Warrender appeared
at first to no great advantage, yet even Ke,
stimulated by the elder man's tact in drawing
forth his resources, and by a faint gleam of
animation upon Varuna's face when he pointedly
addressed her, made amends towards the close
of the drive for his taciturnity at its
commencement.

It was perhaps natural that Warrender's
mind should have already begun to exercise
itself in speculations concerning Cazalette's
motives, antecedents, and possible interest in
Madame Fanoo. Cazalette's manner to her was at
once distant and deferential, and he addressed
her but seldom. Yet Warrender fancied that
he detected in sundry looks and gestures the
evidence of a warm regard.

No prejudice could declare Cazalette to bean
adventurer in the vulgar sense of the term.
His whole bearing; was that of a gentleman far
removed from vicious or Bohemian proclivities.

He trod upon undebateable ground. His careless
allusions to affairs and to persons of note,
living and deceased, showed familiarity with the
politics and social life of a somewhat earlier
date. He belonged to the world, yet seemed
apart from it. He did not play, yet had
apparently frequented the various gaming places
in Europe. Of his poverty he spoke without
affectation. His manner had something of the
cynicism and sadness of a recluse, and was faintly
tinged by sacerdotalism ; one involuntarily connected
him with the Catholic Church. Of art he
showed considerable knowledge ; he seemed well
read, and his speech was at times almost poetic.

As the carriage turned into the olive-shaded
road which led to the cape, Warrender pulled
his thoughts together and rebuked himself for
having indulged in romantic conjecture.

What a fool I am," he muttered, *' to imagine
the first well-mannered foreigner I meet, a
Jesuit in disguise."

It was at this point that he exerted himself
to join in the conversation, and succeeded
so far as to banish, for the present, sinister
insinuations.

A spirit of harmony seemed now to have crept
over the quartette. Mrs. Kilsyth's eyes no
longer wandered uneasily from Cazalette to her
daughter, and Madame Fanoo leaned back against
the cushions, her former erect attitude replaced
by one pliant and unconstrained, her face, if
pensive, full of sweetness. Warrender's vague
distrust and painful expectation of harrowing
discovery had melted into a dream-like sense of
well-being. But for that subtle elementwhich
Mrs. Featherstone had described as a suo:2:estion
of tragedy in the background, the drive would
have been to him a commonplace incident, and
his companions charming worldlings unswayed by
any more complex influences than the pastime
of the hour, and the ordinary interests of that
butterfly society of which they formed part.

The carriage drew up at the end of the
point. Here breakers were roaring against
a fringe of jagged white rocks which terminated
the cape. Foam dashed over the low
undergrowth of lentiscus and mettle. The sea
stretched grey and hazy to the horizon, and a
veiled sun shed a track of misty brightness
across the bay. Monte Carlo lay like a jewel
in the curve, the craggy heights behind it, and
the tower of La Turbie defined clearly against
the sky. To the east. Men tone and the promontories
of Italy lay slumberous. There was
brooding and faint melancholy in the air.
From the sea shore a rocky path led to a forest
of pines, wind-swept into fantastic shapes,
where the atmosphere was pungent with a
resinous odour, and the rosemary grcAv high.
Here, in a sheltered nook, the rest of the party
had already arranged themselves. A hamper
half unpacked lay upon the grass, and Mrs.
Featherstone, clad in a becoming tailor-made

costume, was on her knees coaxing a refractory
wood fire into a blaze.

"Now," lie exclaimed, rising, with her
pretty face all rosy after her exertions, "just
by way of contrast and as a sort of tribute
to those lanky gum-trees you all admire so
much, I'm going to relapse for a short time
into my original condition of barbarism. I
can't make a damper, Mr. Warrender, for I
don't suppose there is a sheet of bark handy ;
but for once in your lives you shall all drink
quart pot tea. The taste is, like other things,
indigenous to the soil, so I shall not expect
you to be enthusiastic in your appreciation.
Lord Bretland, you are out of office for the
present, but you may make yourself useful if
you please. Where are the implements ? "

Lord Bretland rummaged in the hamper and
produced a bright tin can, which he held at
arms-length.

I am instructed to inform the company

VOL. I. R

that this is a  hilly'' he observed in his
melancholy drawl.

No, indeed ! " energetically cried Mrs. Fear
; " no such thing. It is merely a
vulgar Birmingham imitation. A hilly should
be smoked black ; it should be saturated with
rank tea, battered, dented, and generally disreputable,
with an odour of grass-tree tops,
bandicoots, and black fellows, mingled with
the delicate aroma of store tobacco. Well " 
mournfully  *' one can't have everything in
this world. Fill it with water and put it
on the fire."

Lord Bretland obeyed, then brought forth
two utensils resembling half-quartern measures,
and a dozen tin mugs strung together by
the handles.

'* And these," he continued in the same
tone, " are quart pots and pannikins, commonly
used by the stockmen and aboriginal
in Australia: while this"  exhibition brown

cake substance which looked like burnt toffee
" is the nearest approach procurable in Monte
Carlo to what Mrs. Featherstone calls ration
sugaVy a commodity practically unknown in
this hemisphere."

I can't compliment you upon being a very
efficient assistant," retorted that lady with a
little grimace. " Evidently your sphere lies
yonder  in the gilded haunts of civilisation.
My word ! Lord Bretland  to fall back upon
the phraseology of my youth  Fd like to see
you bushed in a mallet scrub. There ! I will
have nothing more to do with you. Come,
Mr. Warrender, it isn't the first time you and
I have stood together by a camp fire. Be
ready to throw in the tea and sugar and to
stir up with a bit of stick as soon as the
water boils."

Warrender, lending himself to the humour of
the moment, did as he was bidden ; and all
stood round, intently gazing, while the operation

R 2

was conducted with a solemnity befitting the
incantations of a witch. The flame mounted,
the fir cones crackled ; the critical instant
arrived. Warrender added first the tea, then
the sugar, while Mrs. Featherstone stirred
vigorously with a crooked stick ; finally the
decoction was delivered to Lord Bretland, who
with great gravity poured it from one quart potto
another till commanded by Mrs. Featherstone
to desist. The beverage was then declared
ready for drinking and handed round in panni-king.
Each guest .drank, made a wry face, and
called variously for sherry and seltzer, and cream.

Oh, I say, Mrs. F-f-f-featherstone," stuttered
Captain Bland, who had attached himself to
the party, "isn't this all ch-ch-chaff'? You
don't mean that you d-d-drInk that stuff in
Australia "? "

'* Never anything else," rejoined she imperturbably.
" It is supposed to have an effect
upon the brain, Captain Bland. That's what

makes all us Australians so sharp. Now, you
may have some egg sandwiches, if you like, to
take the taste out of your mouth."

The gipsy tea was on the whole a success.
Mrs. Featherstone had at all events the knack
of putting every one on good terms with himself
or herself, and if she was audacious, it was a
pleasant audacity. Some one started singing
catches, and the voices sounded sweetly among
the pines and mingled with the monotonous
swash of the sea. Then Mr. Braunstein, appealing
to Miss Rochford, suggested a German part-song,
which was followed by the " Corelli" with
Heine's words.

Ah," murmured Mrs. Kilsyth, " I prefer the
Hans Breitmann version of ' Die Miidchen mit
noting on.' It harmonises better with the
company and the quart pot tea."

Like all such impromptu concerts, this one
descended by slow gradations to the music-hall
level.

There is a fascination in shrieking upon a
foreign shore a comic breakdown or 'seule
Britannia" which the typical cockney cannot
resist, certainly not Captain Bland, whose announcement
in a piping falsetto, that Britons
never, never, ne-ever would be slaves," was
effusively echoed by the more patriotic and
less highly cultivated of the little assemblage.

There's a good deal of freedom about that
chorus," observed Mrs. Kilsyth to Colonel
Cazalette. He had stationed himself beside her,
though his eyes were fixed upon Yaruna and
Warren der, who were standing together a little
distance apart from the rest. " Could any set
of people but the English make themselves so
supremely ridiculous ? ' Rule Britannia ' always
reminds me of a cock crowing; down a nightingale.
No ; Captain Bland, don't ask me to join
you. I'm not a Briton  I'm only a woman."

*' Only a ivomanj' murmured Mr. Braunstein
in a tone of deep meaning.

All nationalities are alike to me' continued
Mrs. Kilsyth. " I'm above prejudices. I'd even
go so far as to hail a chimpanzee as man
and brother. I hate your 'nice little, tight
little island ' cant ; the self-laudation and hypocrisy
; the straight walk along the narrow road,
elbows out, and no grace for a sinner, the breakfast
at nine, the luncheon at one, the dinner at
seven  ugh I .Am I hurting any one's sensibilities
? Isn't that Mrs. Livingstone, with the
association of wool workers from the Nationale
at Mentone, rounding the point ? To your tents,
oh, Israel ; the Philistines are upon us ! "

Come this way," whispered Colonel Cazalette
with gentle imperativeness. *' I want to talk to
you."

The appearance of Mrs. Livingstone and her
cohort was the signal for a general dispersion.
In such case the laws of natural attraction
decide the pairing of a company of both sexes.
Warrender and Varuna, forsaking the great pine

grove, bent their steps towards the wind-swept
cape. It was a rough way, and their hands
frequently touched as lie guided her over the
shingle. At last, she seated herself upon a
granite boulder, below which the water lay in
miniature pools, and tangled masses of seaweed
had gathered in mounds of shiny greenish
brown. The wind blew in, salt and exhilarating
but touched with chill. It stirred
Yaruna's furs and loosened the bunch of roses
at her throat ; they fell and were borne by the
breeze over the rocks. Warrender would have
rescued them, but she interposed :

*' Never mind; they have done their duty,
and I have more at home." After a pause she
asked, without looking towards her companion,
'' What do you think of Colonel Cazalette 1 "

Warrender hesitated. "It is a difficult question.
He is the sort of man about whom it
would be impossible to form an opinion after a
few hours' acquaintance."

'' I don't agree with you. He has a distinct
individuality. The only people worth thinking
about are those who affect one definitely at
first sight."

He certainly does that."

' And he impressed you last night 
disagreeably ? "

Since you insist upon frankness, my first
feeling was that I should be sorry to trust
him."

You were right," she replied gravely.
'don't trust him."

'yet you seem to have known Colonel
Cazalette intimately, Madame Fanoo."

I saw a great deal of him eve or six years
ago. He had a strong influence over my
mother and was a sort of lay confessor to her
when she was in one of her transition states
of belief I am not speaking heartlessly, Mr.
Warrender. You must sec that my mother is
impulsive, changeable  and lovable as a child.

As regards myself, Colonel Cazalette is associated
in my memory with painful . events. Now,"
she said in a different tone, "you will tell me
something more about my sister Helena. Is it a
pleasure to you, or the reverse, talking of her ? "

Warrender winced at the question. *' I am
glad to talk of her, Madame Fanoo, if you
are interested  but "

*eyes, I think that I understand. I have
fancied that the mention of her name jarred-upon
you. If I seem wanting in perception
you must recollect that I am reading an unfamiliar
language. I am sure that you are too
sincere and direct to shrink because of self-love
or wounded vanity. It seems to me that a true
man, having once loved a woman, must, whatever
happens, hold her in tender remembrance.
You would be surprised if you could know
how much I have been thinking of you and
Helena this afternoon."

You are deeply attached to your sister 1 "

That is perhaps putting it too strongly. I
know so little of her. She was a child when I
left England  a thin, quiet little thing with long
fair hair, earnest eyes, a solemn way with her,
and a most extraordinary faculty for adoration.
She was just the sort of child whom as a woman
one would expect to sacrifice herself for a creed,
an idea, a sentiment. I can't imagine her an
ordinary flesh-and-blood girl of the period.
There's a tone in her letters not of the earth,
earthy. I dare say that she is weak ; all
creatures of beliefs are so. Am I right ? '*

I had no reason to think her weak," replied
Warrender, a little bitterly ; "at all events,
she did not believe in me. What should you
like to know about her, Madame Fanoo ? She
is tall and slender now, with a sort of girlish
stateliness that is rather difficult to describe.
She has deep dark eyes, and is not much given
to laughter. I used to think that her views of
life were too serious, and that she thought too

much of others. But before long you will be
able to judge for yourself."

I have never known what it is to have a
woman friend," said Varuna as though excusing
her interest ; " and Helena is my half-sister
except my mother and my little girl, nearer
to me than any one in the world. Hers will
be a new influence in my life, perhaps a happy
one. If, as her letters seem to say, she believes
in me, loves me, thinks only good of me, there
would be a motive for sacrifice  for endeavour
She paused. Warrender did not immediately
reply. " You think me very self-absorbed
? " said Varuna, looking at him
directly. ' You are right ; egoism is the curse
of a nature like mine. My interest in Helena
merely takes the form of speculation as to how
she will affect me."

No," said Warrender nervously. " I haven't
thought much of such things ; but it seems tome
that finely strung natures must always be

more or less egoistic. It is a question of nerves,
and of the capability of receiving vivid impressions.
But why do you speak so drearily ?
You have surely the strongest motive to effort
in life  your child''

Madame Fanoo's face was darkened by an
expression of deep sadness, but a moment later
there passed over her features a curious gleam
of tenderness softening their fixity.

** That in which one's existence is bound
is not merely a motive," she answered in a low
voice. " Had you a fancy that I did not care
for my little girl ? Well, perhaps my manner
justified the thought. Mr. Warrender, I have
sometimes wished, prayed that my child might
die. The maimed speech, the cramped intelligence,
the dumb eyes, are living reproaches tome
for a wrong unconsciously committed 
reminders of an injury which I can never
forget or forgive. What right have people " 
her voice vibrated with passionate earnestness 

to weight other lives with all that is bad in
themselves  and worse  worse ? I can't explain
myself, and it is impossible for you to
understand."

"I do understand." His eyes bright with
indignant pity met hers. ' The suffering which
is brought upon the innocent is the saddest
problem in life."

It can t be altered or made better. There's
a sort of poison in such sorrow," she said.

No, it can't be altered, or healed quite, on
this side of the grave."

'' But you think," she said eagerly, '' that
there might be a way of escaping from the
hopelessness  the dreariness ? "

'' For you ? " he asked simply. '' Oh yes,
yes. You are so young still, Madame Fanoo 
too young to be crushed, too good and true
to become hard and cynical. Give up this false,
artificial life, and go and live with your child.
You don't know what there may be for you in

the future. There will be peace ; there may belove."


Varuna's face showed no hardness or indifference
now. She seemed to hang upon his words
as though they were prophetic. Her eyes were
clear and dilated ; her lips trembled. She
was quite silent for a minute ; then she said
falteringly :

But you don't know. You have not realised.
My little girl is almost an idiot. She
is deaf and dumb. They said  they said that
it was because I had been unhappy. I had
suffered  I can't speak of it. Don't ask
me any questions. You see that hope is
taken from me."

There was a painful pause ; and then 

You said," urged AVarrender gently, " that
after this year you would play no more."

I mean to give it up," she answered, '* if
the passion is not too strong for me. I don't
know if I can live without excitement of some

kind. I was quite in earnest about my
superstitious belief that this year will decide
my fate. And now you make me almost hope
that there may be brightness in store for me.
Mr. Warrender, you must not judge me by
the standard you would apply to a gently
brought up English girl. I have lived my
life. I am disillusioned, and the taste of ashes
is between my lips. Every woman who is
without the true sense of happiness craves
for a means of escape from the vapid flatness
of existence. Some women find it in dress,
gaiety, and flirtation. These have no charms
for me, and surely do not demoralise less than
roulette. And I have justified gambling to
myself. You know that I was poor, and that
my mother's income only lasts during her life.
I wished to win money so that I might be
independent, and thus provide for my little
girl's future. I have won nearly enough 
not quite. Come," she added, rising, "we

have talked a long time. Let us join the
rest."

You are not displeased with me," said
Warrender, in a beseeching tone. ** I know
that I have no right to speak to you in this
way."

Yes ; you have a certain right," she replied
with an air of forced playfulness. "You
are going some day to marry my sister.
That is a reason why we should be frank
with each other."

The red mounted to Warrender's brow.

I had rather," he said slowly, " that you
would leave your sister out of the question,
and give me the right on different grounds."

"How?" she asked.

*' It would be the greatest pleasure to me
to feel that you trusted me, and that I might
consider myself your friend apart from the
possibility of any nearer bond."

I do trust you. Concerning my friendship,

VOL. I. S

I think that, with an impulsiveness which is
not usual with me, I offered it to you the
first evening we met. As for the other
possibility, we will talk of it no more  till
Helena comes."

TRANSITION.

If thy heart, waking in the depths of night,

Quivers and sinks
As on thy lips thou feels a breath,

A breath of flame,
Know that unseen beside thee

'Tis I that breathe."

This conversation on the beach at Cape
Martin seemed to establish a crisis in the
relations of Warrender and Madame Fanoo. The
slight mutual embarrassment, impulsive appeal
on her part and earnestness of response on his,
marking their first approaches to intimacy,
were merged now in an unconstrained intercourse,
that allowed much to be taken for
granted, and in which it was difficult to draws

2

the line between what was actually said and
what was tacitly understood.

Both were deeply conscious of the influence
each exercised over the other, yet neither quite
ventured to analyse it. That dreamy sense of
definiteness and mental communion ; the vague
longings and unrest, half sweet, half sad ; the
involuntary turning of mind to mind, and the
constant desire to share a hundred poetic fancies
which haunted the imagination of botlr  sall
these indications of dawning regard were
recognised by Varuna, and, if framed in thought,
were attributed to the newly-forged chain of
sympathy that connected herself, Helena and
the new-comer. It is sometimes hard to
separate cause and effect ; and in this case
Varuna was at a loss to discover whether her
increased interest in Helena had been inspired
by the meeting with Warrender, or whether the
latter had gained importance in her eyes through
his relations with her half-sister.

She found herself frequently marvelling at
Helena's rejection of this man, who seemed to
her, of all she had ever met, the one to whom
a woman might in greatest security confide
herself An almost fierce desire seized her to
plead his cause, to tear away the spider-webs
of religious prejudice, which she felt convinced
fettered Helena's will. She longed that he
should be happy. Life was so troubled, the
desires of men so low, their fancies so brief,
it seemed cruel that the fervour of this heart
should spend itself and be wasted. Her own
heart throbbed in pity. Poor Varuna ! Love
had hitherto only exhibited himself to her in
shapes which had provoked her scorn, and had
almost made her exult in the suffering she
inflicted. She had fancied that this insensibility
arose from her own shallowness and falsity ;
now it came upon her like a revelation that she
alone had been true, and that it was the truth
in Warrender's soul, meeting hers, which forced

her into such passionate sympathy with his
deeper feelings. She had never before been
brought into contact with this large-souled ,
simple, chivalrous type. Here was no posing
for effect, no encouragement of morbid sentiment,
no paltry vanity lowering god-like
love to its own earthly level. Warrender's
mien expressed a quiet sadness which touched
Varuna more deeply than the most despairing
exhibition of melancholy.

Why should I be sorry ? " she asked herself
in her more cynical moods. " If he were my
lover, I should be as impatient of his love as
I am of their sighs and reproaches."

But he was not her lover, nor ever could
be, seeing that he loved her half-sister. This
fact she impressed upon her mind with unnecessary
force, possibly from the secret conviction
that in it lay her sense of safety, and
the justification of her impulsive reliance upon
him.

It may have been as Varuna asserted, that
she possessed an instinct transcending the
limitations of ordinary human intelligence, and
enabling her to catch dim glimpses of shadows
thrown by the future. Certain it was, that
Warren der's appearance upon the eve of that
year which had been foretold to her as fateful,
the link between him and Helena, and the
strange coincidence of the latter's expected
arrival at Monte Carlo, stirred her imagination,
chimed with her superstitious fancies,
and predisposed her to connect him with the
threads of her destiny. Her mental attitude
towards him was of a kind which she could
not have conceived it possible that she should
assume towards any man. She, in whom a
wretched marriage seemed to have dried up
every fount of feeling, who had scoffed at
herself as hard and mercenary, and to whom
coldness had been as a shield, alike against
insult and honestly proffered love, now resembled

a half awakened girl, in her impulsive
confidences, her strange fits of dreaminess, her
unhesitating trust in him, and the fearlessness
with which she accepted this new element in
her life, wondering only why, since friendship
was so sweet, so much eloquence should be expended
upon the intoxicating delights of love.
Another welcome change in her temperament
she attributed to his influence. She had hinted
to him of morbid terrors, mental horrors, a sense
of isolation, which made her at times fancy herself
an automaton, wound up to smile and act,
while the real disembodied spirit looked on as it
were in loathing of this travesty of life. These
feelings, which frequently overpowered her in
such a manner as almost to justify her dread of
losing self-control, and to which the only alterative
seemed to lie in the excitement of play, had,
since the new year began, almost entirely left
her. The sense of a burden lifted was inexpressibly
sweet : it was a foretaste of what

existence might be to the pure, untroubled, loved
to such a woman as Helena. At night when
she awoke, dreading the cold perspiration and
ghastly shrinking from unseen presences, which
had made the darkness a torment, she was
surprised to find herself composed and trustful,
as though a mother's hand clasped hers. She
would turn upon her pillow to meet in fancy
the gaze of Warrender's eyes, and then close
her owen again, her whole being pervaded by
a conviction of safety and peace.

Warrender was undergoing a somewhat similar
phase of experience. From his soul also a
trouble had been lifted ; for him, too, life now
held a new and absorbing interest. He would
have been shocked and revolted by the suggestion
that his love for Helena was in process of
transference to her sister : yet certain it was that
the largest share of his thoughts was given to
Varuna. What man could withstand the fascination
of her variable manner, the homage

conveyed by her reliance upon his opinions, the
frank submission of one so beautiful, so complex,
and to others so unapproachable. There was a
grand simplicity in Varuna's subservience, an
unconsciousness and innocence, at total variance
with the character she had acquired. No
coquette could have played the part without
loss of dignity, but her frankness compelled the
most absolute respect, and even Mrs. Feather-stone's
banter was silenced by the grave directness
of Madame Fanoo's reply, when challenged
as the heroine of that Monte Carlo drama upon
which the pretty Australian still laughingly
insisted.

I see no indications of a drama at present,
Mrs. Featherstone. Your imagination must
supply the harrowing complications and violent
emotions which one connects with the idea of
tragedy. Cast your play without me. I am
too indifferent to act the heroine."

'' Then," observed Mrs. Featherstone, " I shall

certainly practise indifference, since it succeeds
so well. There is nothing I adore more than
behoof talked about ! But for that, several things
are necessary. One must be tall, and one must
have a manner which piques curiosity."

Colonel Cazalette turned to Madame Fanoo.
They were loitering in the vestibule of the
Casino, waiting for the rest of the party.

Do you observe," he asked in a low tone,
that I make an effort to cultivate indifference
? "

You succeed very well," she replied.

I am a good actor. But you know me
well enough not to need assuring that I neither
change nor forget. For me, a passion once felt
is the passion of a lifetime."

I can hardly imagine that you are sincere,"
she answered pointedly. ** You seem to amuse
yourself very well."

As she spoke, her eyes turned significantly
towards a dark-eyed, slightly-rouged, and

extremely well-dressed woman  evidently one
of the fallen angels to whom Monte Carlo is a
pleasant abode ; and who, with her unfurled
crimson fan coquettishly shielding the lower
part of her face, was leaning against a pillar,
her audacious gaze fixed upon Cazalette.

He flushed slightly and drew Madame Fanoo
aside to a settee placed under the shelter of
a stand of ferns.

Sit here, and be merciful. You are right,
and your rebuke gives me more pleasure than
pain, for it tells me that you are not absolutely
indifferent. But you are a woman of the world,
and know -"

Oh yes, I know, I know," she interrupted.
I knew all this long ago. Do not suppose
that I made the allusion because of any deep
interest in you. Only, it is not worth while
trying to make me think you different to what
you are. You might perhaps impose upon
one more innocent. I am hardened and world-worn.

I can hardly believe in goodness, when
I see it."

Do you ever see it ? "

Varuna did not answer.

Whatever my faults," he exclaimed passionately,
*' you must at least be aware that I have
never loved  never can love any woman but

you."

The old story, and it is five years since
you last repeated it. I thought that after so
long a time it would have been forgotten."

That story will never be forgotten while I
have breath. Say that you believe this."

It does not matter what I think."

No ; it does not matter. I have given up
hope, and you cannot accuse me of having
troubled you, since my return, by any obtrusive
display of my feelings. I accepted my fate on
New Year s morning in the gardens at Monaco.
Your heart belongs to this Englishman. I saw
then that you were conquered  you  the

edelweiss, the most inaccessible of women, to
love . whom meant despair and ruin."

You are utterly mistaken ! " she exclaimed
vehemently, though in a voice hardly above a
whisper. " There is nothing of that kind between
Mr. Warrender and me. He wishes to
marry my sister''

A peculiar smile curved Cazalette's lips. " He

\
will not marry your sister."

At that moment Lord Bretland appeared. " A
thousand apologies, Madame Fanoo. You have
been waiting for your tickets. Here are the
wraps. Mrs. Kilsyth has had one of her inspirations,
happily while I was at hand to act as
agent and stake the napoleons. The number
came up and we all are considerably elated.
Warrender, I hear, has been winning heavily
for you. When is his luck going to turn ? It
is simply marvellous."

His luck will last just as long as Madame
Fanoo's indifference," said Mrs. Featherstone, who

had overheard the last remark. " That is the
philosophy of gambling and of life."

Thus the threads of destiny crossed and
recrossed, and life proceeded merrily in the
little principality.

Helena's journey had been delayed. Three
weeks had gone by and the Monte Carlo season
was at its height. Yachts with pennons flying
lay at anchor in the harbour. The terraces and
gambling-rooms were crowded with fashionable
English. Celebrities of all nations jostled each
other in the vestibule. Patti warbled in the
theatre. Two or three scions of royalty drove
over daily from Nice ; and the demi-monde
overflowed the Hotel de Paris, At the Hotel
des Anges every corner was occupied. General
Featherstone had departed with his violin and
his scores to complete his opera in the comparative
seclusion of San Eemo, and his pretty
wife was still exploring the mysteries of civilisation
under the superintendence of Lord

Bretland, and the immediate guidance of several
lately-arrived London admirers.

Cazalette remained in this first quarters, but
he was a constant visitor at the Villa Kilsyth.
He avoided Varuna, but daily his ascendency
over Mrs. Kilsyth became more marked. That
lady was not in her usual spirits. She looked
worn and ill at ease. Her eyes wandered nervously,
her lips were rarely closed ; and the
inconsequence of her speech, and her fits of
alternate excitement and depression, suggested
indulgence in morphia or in stimulant of another
kind. She went regularly to mass, talked of
dreams, auguries, indulged in a thousand superstitions,
offered up an unlimited number of
candles, and extended the mortification of her
gambling instincts to abstinence on Fridays
as well as on saints' days.

The most marked change was visible in
Varuna. Her face had softened ; a tremulous
sensibility showed itself on her lips and in her

eyes. Her manner was more gracious, more
unconstrained, at times it was almost joyous.
She took delight in the beauty around her.
Nature seemed to speak to her with a caressing
voice. Life presented more healthy interests.
It was as though a hideous spectre had been
removed from her gaze. She lent herself with
animation, too, to the various plans for amusement
 drives, fetes, and excursions  organised
by the new English visitors, for as the season
went on, acquaintances gathered thickly round
them.

Madame Fanoo was at this time one of the
most conspicuous figures at Monte Carlo. A
Eussian magnate was at her feet, and she was
surrounded by a throng of admirers. To stake
her coins at roulette was an eagerly coveted
privilege. This critical year had at all events
commenced favourably. Fortune smiled upon
her play. The superstitious followed her lead ;
report magnified her winnings ; and even the

VOL. I. T

impassive countenances of the croupiers relaxed
when she appeared at the tables. The dark,
stern-faced Englishman who was to be seen
constantly at her side, became an object of
comment. His good fortune was identified with
her favours. Outsiders, with a whimsical belief
in the superstition which had become attached
to her name, waited with curiosity till the
critical moment should arrive when luck should
turn and the Vampire's thirst be appeased. A
tragedy was confidently predicted by the ghouls
who scent disaster from afar. Warrender's infatuation
was much discussed, and Madame
Fanoo's apparent unconsciousness of the sinister
expectations which she excited, was only adduced
as a proof of her insensibility.

Cazalette held aloof, never playing at the
tables, taking no active part in the drama, but
watching Varuna closely. Not less was his
attention bestowed upon Warrender, whose
society he now assiduously cultivated. The

latter began to repent his first feeling of
aspersion. Apparently to no one could the
term adventurer be less justly applied than to
Cazalette. With the dignitaries of Church and
State, English and foreign, he seemed equally
at home. His circle of acquaintance was large
and ranged the social scale. A charm Id g ex-actress
had taken a villa near Villefranche, and
considered her informal entertainments failures
without his presence. The Princess Titchakoff
who oecujied a most luxurious suite of rooms
at the Grand Hotel, and divided the honours of
notoriety in Monaco with the prima donna,
Madame Fanoo, a London professional beauty,
and a female Communist lately returned from
New Caledonia  patronised and petted him,
and, it was said, sought to lure him into the
vortex of political intrigue. To be the friend
of Nadine was perhaps a doubtful distinction.
Yes ! but to be the associate of Pere Hyacinthe,
who was Iccturinoj at Nice, of Monseigneur, the

Cardinal who under the Papal benediction lead
established himself for health's sake at Mentone,
and of an English statesman, driven to seek
distraction and repose on the Riviera, was a
surer seal of respectability.

The faint suggestion of rivalship in their relations
with Madame Fanoo had completely faded
from Warrender's mind. Had he analysed his
feelings, this vague jealousy might have been a
revelation, but in a conversation at Cape Martin
she herself had removed the impression before
it had had time to assume definite shape.

Notwithstanding the gaieties that made calls
upon their time, there were many hours in
which AVarrender and Madame Fanoo found
themselves companions. She seemed to seek
rather than to avoid these opportunities, and
told him with the sweetest frankness that his
society did her good. Strange to say, as their
intimacy increased, their talk flowed in more
impersonal channels. It was not without motive

that he thus directed it. Reference to himself
usually led to the subject of Helena, and from
this, without knowing why, he shrank with
inexpressible repugnance. He winced at the
sound of her name upon Yaruna's lips, and
dreaded her appearance mid surroundings which
in the case of her sister did not shock his sensibilities.
For one of the strongest proofs of
Yaruna's witchery lay in her power to sway the
mood of the moment, in the minds of those with
whom she came in contact, and of identifying, as
it were, all outward incongruities with her own
charming personality ; so that though Warrender
yearned to rescue her from influences which he
felt to be contaminating, and associations incompatible
with his ideal of purest womanhood, she
yet inspired him with the firmest belief in her
capacity for all that is most high and noble.

END OF VOL, I.

3 0112 084218145

r

*m *-

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/zrostoryofmont02prae

Z02-.

A STORY OF MONTE CARLO.

BY

MRS. CAMPBELL Prayed,

AUTHOR OF "AN AUSTRALIAN HEROINE," "MOLOCH," " Nadir.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON : CHAPMAN AND HALL,

Limited.
1884.

All right t reserved.

R. Clay, Sons, and Taylor,

BREAD STREET HILL.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

"TO LOVE, OR NOT TO LOVE?" 1

CHAPTER II.

A LOVER DISMISSED 14

CHAPTER III.

EDELWEISS GATHERED 34

CHAPTER IV.

MISS KILSYTH ARRIVES

4f>

CHAPTER V.

PAGE

THE SISTERS 70

CHAPTER VI.

FAREWELL 96

CHAPTER VII.

CAZA.LETTE, A SUITOR 122

CHAPTER VIII.

AT ROQUEBRUNE . 146

CHAPTER IX.
mrs. kilsyth's confession . , 163

CHAPTER X.

HELENA YIELDS 184

CHAPTER XI.

PAGE

"WITHIN Twenty-four HOURS " 204

CHAPTER XII.

DESTINY 224

ZKO:

H Store of fonte Carlo.

Chapter I.

TO LOVE, OR NOT TO LOVE ? "

How say you 1 Let us, my dove,
Let us be unashamed of soul,
As earth lies bare to Heaven above

How is it under our control
To love or not to love 1 "

I wonder, " said Madame Fanoo suddenly,
after a dreamy pause during which her eyes had
been fixed vacantly upon the distant sea,
'whether science will ever enable us to understand
the laws of moral and spiritual attraction.

VOL. II. B

It is a fine thing, no doubt, to have discovered
the principle of gravitation ; but what a much
greater boon to mankind it would be if some
clever person succeeded in laying down a set of
rules, founded upon exact knowledge, which
should teach us why such and such a combination
of circumstances, sentiments, qualities, should
produce a given result upon the human organism
! There must be a law to govern such
combinations. Just as in chemistry particular
elements will or will not amalgamate, so certain
natures meeting are bound to do each
other either good or harm. One never discovers
which till too late. If one could be guided by
the laws which undoubtedly operate in the
invisible world, social intercourse would be
delightfully simple and uncomplicated. There
'would be no unhappy marriages, no false or
forced relationships, no need to grope by instinct
after enlightenment. We should avoid what w r e
knew to be antipathetic, and cling without fear

to those with whom our dispositions w T ere in
harmony."

Madame Fanoo uttered this long philosophical
speculation slowly and thoughtfully, and apparently
without any expectation of a reply.
She laughed softly as she concluded.

In relation to what ? " asked Warrender.

They were sitting together in the garden of
the Villa Kilsyth. The grounds were closed
in by olives and pines, which seemed a barrier
against the outer world. A soft breeze soughed
gently through the branches overhead. A little
thicket of orange-trees screened, them from the
house. These were at once in fruit and bloom,
and filled the air with fragrance. A mimosa
scattered its golden pollen at their feet. The
sun lay low on the horizon. The olives cast
mysterious shadows, and between their gnarled
trunks there shone a tender after-glow. Faint
echoes floated from the promenade, but here
all was dreamy and still.

B 2

Madame Fanoo leaned back in a cushioned
basket-chair, while beside her stood a little
table upon which fruit and tea were laid.
The scene had an air of homeliness and
domesticity, refreshing after the garish accessories
of an hotel. Varuna was pale, and there
was something of languor in her mien. She
complained of headache and fatigue. It washer
first appearance down stairs that day ; nevertheless,
when Warrender called, he had after
a little delay been ushered hither into her
presence. A volume of Browning was in his
hand. Seeing her listlessness, he had proposed
to read aloud ; and choosing the poem, " Two
in the Campagna," had watched her furtively
to discover how deeply she was affected by
it, A pause had followed the reading. Her
remark broke the silence.

In relation to you, I suppose. You don't
believe in the theory of spiritual correspondences,
and I feel too stupid at present to expound it.

Nevertheless, our  " there was the slightest
perceptible hesitation  " our friendship is an
exemplification of what I mean."

Warrender leaned eagerly forward. The
subtle passion of the poetry he had been reading
still thrilled his nerves. He had seen that
her lip trembled. There was a troubled moving
of the spirits of both ; each knew it ; .each felt
the inward agitation.

"Does this touch you?" he asked, glancing
down at the open page.

Yes  but why love  why in poems and
novels, always love ? I know ' the pain of
finite hearts which yearn.' I have felt at
times an almost maddening need of sympathy
when the darkness has closed suffocatingly
round me and I have longed for a handclasp
to assure me that I myself was not a ghost
not one of the evil spirits which seemed to
press me on all sides. But this was not
the mere womanish desire for supremacy or

affection. There was plenty of that sort of
thing in my life. It appeared to me only the
most horrible mockery. You know  I have
told you what I have suffered from that terrible
feeling of blank desolation, of separateness from
those who are talking and laughing around me.
It was after my husband's death that I felt it
most. I had impulses to torture  to kill.
Sometimes I wondered whether it were not I
who had caused his death. I dared not be
left alone with my child. There are things
now belononno; to that time which I have hidden
away  which I cannot bear to look at.
That was when I first became dependent upon
gambling. Play seemed the only means of
escape from myself  then, just before you
came, all those dreadful sensations came back.
I felt certain that in time I should go mad.
When I saw you, something within me made
me sure that you would help me. I was so
glad when you told me that you had wished

to marry Helena. I am a different person now
I feel calmed and soothed. Yon have made
me better  you have exorcised my demons."

Warrender rose and approached her chair,
standing over her. " Madame Fanoo ! " he exclaimed,
his voice vibrating with earnestness,
you humble me to the dust, and at the
same time you make me the proudest man in
the world. How is it possible that I can have
done this for you ? It is your own beautiful
soul which has spoken. There would be no
demons to exorcise if you were but true to
yourself."

Or to your belief in me," she answered
with a smile. " You put me on honour ;
perhaps there lies the secret of your influence."
Suddenly, as a step sounded upon the gravel
near, her tone changed to one of light
raillery.

Unfortunately with you, Mr. Warrender,
precept and example do not go hand in hand ;

you rebuke my gambling propensities, and yet
you encourage them by winning for me."

Colonel Cazalette appeared from behind
the orange-trees. He had overheard the last
words.

Ah, madame," he said when he had made
his greetings with his usual suave courtesy,
you worship chance after the fashion of
those tribes who sacrifice new-born infants
upon the altar of their god. And talking of
chance, have you heard that this morning the
Polish plunger committed suicide in his rooms
at the Grand Hotel ? I have just seen the
Princess Titchakoff. Report, which is so cruel,
of course, connects her with the catastrophe,
and the Directors of the Tripot encourage the
scandal. It is certain that rouleaux of gold
were found in the victim's pockets, and that
the Princess has given orders for her removal
to a villa close to Yillefranche. Already the
ghouls of the Casino have rifled the body ;

and I overheard a certain lady congratulating
herself upon having secured a lock of the
dead man's hair as a sure talisman against
ill-fortune."

Warrender uttered an exclamation of disgust.
" Are such tragedies as this, common
occurrences here ? "

Cazalette gathered a bunch of mimosa and
coolly inhaled its fragrance. " Wherever life
is at its highest pressure, there is bound to
be tragedy. Perhaps, considering the combination
of forces, one finds less here than
might reasonably be expected  or else one
does not hear of it. The newspapers are
bought. Even editors can be gagged with
bank-notes. Tragedies ! of course there are
tragedies. Where the carcass is, there the
eagles gather together. Pack humanity closely,
and you may predict the result. What about
your London Bridge suicides, and the revelations
of your police courts ? The stage is

larger, that is all. Where but here do you
see, in an area of a few square yards, all
the passions brought into play under such
varied and complex conditions ! I take the
world as I find it, Mr. 'Warrender, and make
the best of its resources. It seems to me
that certain safety-valves for what you maybe
pleased to term vice, are an absolute
necessity to the working of human machinery.
Sewers and cesspools may be foul in themselves,
but they tend to preserve the public
health. From that point of view I don't join
in the clamour for the suppression of Monte
Carlo. It's the vulgarity of an exhibition of
this kind that is revolting. Refined superstition
is not offensive  such as yours, Madame
Fanoo. Yet in the abstract ?  A dead man's
hair  a living man's heart ?  "

He paused, seeming to await Yaruna's reply.
His words might have been resented as
insolent, but his tone was dulcet, his air

deferential, and expressive of benevolent inquiry.
Warren der turned pale and would
have replied, but was checked by a look from
Varuna. Her eyes flashed, she rose from her
chair ; but the sight of Cazalette's imperturbable
face seemed to turn the edge of her
anger. She merely smiled in the slow, scornful
manner which had not been so habitual with
her of late, and sank back again.

Cazalette continued with bland indifference.

If all gamblers possessed, like Madame
Fanoo, the art of infusing poetry into roulette!
She is a queen who receives allegiance and
owes none."

In that case," rejoined Varuna, " I have
no hesitation in dismissing Mr. Warrender
before reverses test his fidelity. Our compact
of friendship holds good, but some one else
shall stake for me in future."

Warrender's eyes sought hers in a glance
of troubled appeal. At that instant a servant

approached bearing a telegram, which he
handed to Madame Fanoo. She opened it ;
her cheek flushed slightly ; and she looked up
with sparkling eyes, addressing Warrender.

This is good news  at last ! My sister
has left Paris. She w T ill arrive this evening."

She was startled by the change in his face.
The slow-gathering cloud of weeks had burst
suddenly. Like a flash of lightning, truth
illuminated his soul. He saw his passion in
all its bareness, realising at the same time
its depth and its shallowness, knowing that
it had displaced but had not banished his
abiding love for Helena. Nevertheless the
shock was horrible. It was as though he had
suddenly been denounced as a traitor. His
moral being seemed thrown from its balance,
and two powerful influences were waging war
against each other within him. He had a distinct
consciousness that one part of his nature clung
faithfully to the memory of Helena, and that,

compelling as was his infatuation for Varuna,
his will did not deliberately sanction it. He
had a longing to escape, to be in solitude.
He dared not look at Varuna, for instinctively
he felt that she had read his secret. He
stood dazed, at the moment, hardly aware
that she was speaking.

Mr. Warrender, I wonder if it would
trouble you to find my mother, and give her
this telegram. She is either in the Casino or
the Hotel des Anges, and it would be well
that she should hear of Helena's arrival before
committing herself to any arrangements for
the evening."

Warrender took the telegram, and in a
voice which he vainly strove to command,
declared his willingness to do Madame Fanoo's
bidding.

Varuna and Cazalette were left alone.

A LOVER DISMISSED.

Cazalette stood intently observing Madame
Fanoo, while she, with eyes drooped, remained
motionless, as though preoccupied with thought.
Presently he said with a tremor of tenderness
in his tone : "I am sorry to see you
looking so ill."

She glanced up, and their eyes met. Recalled
to the present, her composure vanished.
Her cheeks became flushed ; her voice faltered.

I  I am not very well. My head still
aches. There is thunder I think, in the air"'

"You will not go to the station to meet
your sister ? "

No."

You told me not long ago that Mr.
Warrender wished to marry Miss Kilsyth.
Are you still of the same opinion ? "

I have had no reason to change it," she
replied.

There was a pause. Cazalette seated himself
upon the chair which Warrender had occupied
a short time before.

Madame Fanoo," he said seriously, " we are
if you dislike the term old friends  at least
old acquaintances. Will you listen kindly tome
for a few moments ? "

His tone touched Varuna, or perhaps she
was hardly yet herself, for she answered with
a sweetness which was in marked contrast with
the stiffness of her usual manner to him.

That is a small favour ; surely I can readily
grant it in return for the kindnesses which
you have done me in former days."

"It gives me happiness to think that your
recollections of me are not entirely harsh.

How you have altered ! I don't know whether
the change has been greatest during the five
years of my absence, or in the three weeks
that have passed since my return."

Of course you find me altered. Before
you went away I had gone through so much ;
my health was broken. Now I am. quite welland
my life is comparatively free from care."

In spite of what you say, you do not look
well or happy. I thought the first night I saw
you again that you had grown very hard, and
I was not surprised. When we parted you had
endured a terrible shock. You were unnerved,
your spirits were shattered. For months afterwards
my heart ached when I thought of you.
It was pity for you which made me leave you.
Often I have felt that it would have been
kinder to us both had I remained. I am sure
of it now."

No," she interrupted haughtily, " I bade yon
go ; and you acted wisely in obeying me. Why

should you have wasted any more of your life
in fo] lowing a shadow ? "

The shadow might in time have become
reality. Your dislike to me was unreasonable.
I ought to have heeded it no more than
one heeds the anger of a child. I would have
been your devoted friend. I would have so
guarded and shielded you, that in the course
of years you would have become dependent
upon me. Tired, bruised, aching, your heart,
instead of rejecting all love, would at last
have turned to the one heart which remained
always faithful ! "

She shook her head.

You are not so cold or so strong as you
would have the world believe," continued Casas
" You have some womanly weaknesses.
Are they weaknesses ? It is they which make
you adorable. For five years you have done
nothing but inflict misery upon men ; and now
you yearn  yes, I see it in your eyes  you

VOL. II. c

yearn to give and receive happiness. Ah,
Varuna, am I so unworthy ? Have I not loved
you long enough and well enough ? Why is it
that I, who have always had so strong an
influence upon women, should have utterly
failed to move you ? "

"It is strange," said Varuna absently. " Perhaps
if at first you had taken pains to seem
sincere, I might have believed in you."

At least," exclaimed Cazalette bitterly,
you cannot accuse me of insincerity to you.
I am called a Jesuit. It is said of me that
I am all things to all men in order to serve
my own purposes. That may be in part true.
One despises one's fellow creatures, but it is
interesting to experimentalise upon them."

Varuna's eyes darkened and dilated. " And
you experimentally upon me, and found me
so far unlike many miserable wives, that though
my position laid me open to insult, I had too
much self-respect to submit to it."

Varuna, I swear that you wrong me. Had
I not loved you chivalrously and devotedly
from the time that you came a girl to Nice ?
Did I not treat you after your marriage with
the most scrupulous deference ? Was it not
my object to shield you from slights, and to
spare you suffering 1 "

"Yes," she answered slowly. "It is because
I remember those kindnesses that I am listening
now."

For ten years," he continued passionately,
you have been the pivot upon which my very
existence has turned. To say that I have sometimes
sunk to the level of low pleasures is to
say only that I am a man. The truest, best
side of my nature has always been turned to
you. My love has never insulted you. Even in
that hour of madness with which you reproach
me, I had no disloyal thoughts. Could I stand
by and see your wretchedness increasing daily,
and not long to snatch you from a life which

 C 2

degraded you ? There was no other way, and
I fancied that you, like myself, were above
conventional prudery. Great God ! what could
have induced you to marry that man % I confess
that you baffle me completely. You have always
been a mystery which I have tried in vain
to solve."

She shuddered. He saw his advantage, but
forbore to press it. After a short silence she
spoke in a hurried, agitated manner :

You say that I have always been a mystery
to you. I am a greater mystery to myself.
I don't know what made me marry. All sorts
of influences and moods which I can't explain.
It has seemed to me sometimes that malicious
fiends were leading me on, and mocking at
what I fancied my independence. I hated being
made love to  even then. There was something
in it against which my soul revolted.
I preferred being coerced. You are right  I
am not strong. I am pitiably, deplorably weak.

There are people who can make me do what
they choose. There are temptations which I
cannot resist. It is because I am afraid of
these powers that I try to be hard. Monsieur
Fanoo had a certain influence over me. I think
it possible that he may have magnetised me.
Such things are. Very soon my submission
turned to hatred, but at first I did as he pleased.
That is the only explanation I can give ; it is
all a mystery. I have often wondered that
you did not make me love you. That too is
a mystery. But it is true that from the first
you repelled me. I cannot account for it ; but I
liked, young as I was, to imagine myself clear-sighted,
and your manner to my mother made me
distrust you. I saw that you seemed what you
were not, in order to gain her to your interests.
You played upon her follies, and humoured her
superstition, till she became afraid of you. She
is afraid of you still ; but it is difficult to understand
what object you can now have in view."

Cazalette left his seat, and slowly paced the
lawn as though he were considering in what
manner he should reply. Varuna rose also.
Her vehemence had subsided, or only showed
itself in the rapidity with which she broke off
the downy balls of a plume of mimosa that
she held in her hand.

Presently Cazalette paused, and fixing his
eyes steadily on her, said sadly :

Since you are susceptible to such influences,
I wish that I had the power of magnetising
you. Other women have found my eyes mesmeric,
yours defy them. I would gladly, if I
could make you submit to me now, run the
risk of your hating me afterwards ; / know
that once you were my own, your heart would
be softened by my devotion. Varuna," and
his voice changed to one of ardent appeal,
"after ten years of patient servitude must I
go away unrewarded and desolate ? I have
poured out upon you all the love of which

human nature is capable : must I give you upto
a man who a few weeks ago swore undying
devotion to your sister ? "

Varuna flushed to the brow, but met his
gaze unflinchingly.

This is more than I will bear," she
exclaimed indignantly. " I won't pretend to
misunderstand you, but I must beg for the
last time that you will make no further
allusion of this kind to Mr. Warrender.
Think what you please. Time will prove that
there can be such a thing as friendship between
a woman and a man who is not her
Lover.

Surely your experience contradicts that
theory. Impossible in the case of such a woman
as yourself."

You asked me to hear what you had to
say," she replied coldly  " I have listened for
some time with patience. Nothing can be
gained by continuing this subject. You have

talked so wildly, Colonel Cazalette, that I hardly
know how to answer you. I ought to express
myself grateful for your regard, touched by
your constancy. I am grateful, and I am
deeply sorry that so much which another woman
might have valued and repaid, has been wasted
on me. During all these years I have never
had one warm impulse towards you. At times
I have shrunk from you with an unaccountable
dislike. This seems a hard thing to say now,
but I want you to understand that what you
wish is absolutely impossible. Put me out of
your life. You must have many interests apart
from this one. There are women in the world,
young, beautiful, and innocent, well worth the
winning. Go away from Monte Carlo and
forget this dream. Make a career for yourself
in which your talents will have full play.
Choose a wife whom you can mould to your
own fancy ; and leave us  my mother and me.
We have brought you no good, and you have

only done us harm. Let us go our different
ways; we act fatally upon each other."

There was a note of almost affectionate
appeal in Varuna's voice. Her whole face was
softened ; her gaze entreated wistfully. Casas
eyes grew larger with repressed tears ;
his firm lip twitched ; and he turned away so
that she might not see the struggle with which
he bade farewell to the hope that for ten years
had ruled his thoughts and actions.

Colonel Cazalette," continued Varuna with
the same gentleness, " if I seem cold and ungracious,
forgive me, and let us say good-bye
without ill-will. I have misjudged you, perhaps ;
forgive me this too, and try to remember that
any faith I once had in purity of heart and
sincerity of motive has been beaten out of me.
You know what a hard experience I have had.
Life seems to me at most times a sickening
farce, in which all are seeking after vanity, self-interest,
self-indulgence. My eyes are distorted,

and 1 see only what is bad. It may be that
there is little or no good : it may be that I
have not the power of discerning it. I don't
think that I'm so very much to blame. I am
what my own mistakes and the selfishness and
cruelty of other people have made me. Yes,
I believe that you cared for me honestly, and
if I could have struck a single spark of feeling
for you, I would have tried to nurse it into a
flame. But I wasn't stupid enough, or confiding
enough. At one time I was very nearly
writing to tell you that I'd marry you, out of
desperation and dread of what I might come
to be. But I could not be impressed by you ;
I could not even take you seriously." She
walked rapidly for a few paces, then turned,
and standing opposite him went on with an
impetuosity which was rare in her.

You know that weird story of George
Eliot's which I was reading the other day ?
I sometimes fancy that I have that fatal capacity

of inward vision  of second sight, to which all
coarse, mean, ignoble thoughts are laid hideously
bare. If it were otherwise, I might be more
responsive  more ready to believe in your
protestations. As it is, I must say the truth
that they do not touch me. I don't understand
the sort of feeling you have for me  or
perhaps I understand it, in a man of your
type, too well. There would have been the same
glamour about Mademoiselle  anything  had
she the supreme charm of being unattainable."

He interrupted her with a passionate
ejaculation.

I am hard  I am cynical  I am
unwomanly," rejoined Varuna. " Yes, yes.
I know and admit all this. Why should /
taunt you ? Why should I accuse you of
falsity, who am utterly false myself? But
these are all words, Colonel Cazalette, as empty
as air. Let us have done with the subject
of love ; it is hateful to me. If you would

do me a last kindness, leave Monte Carlo-your
presence here is a pain to me : it hasa
most baleful effect upon my mother. You
must have observed this ; others remark it
and wonder. What can I think but that
you have some hold over her to which I do
not possess the clue ? My poor mother is
nervous and excitable ; her mind is quite
unbalanced ; it is cowardly  it is cruel to
make her your tool. We are both weak and
defenceless. I know, as you do, the taint
which we have inherited, and which poisons
our lives. I trace it in her and in myself.
I am prepared to trace it in Helena. Your
influence is not likely to benefit any of us,
it does her positive harm. I don't want to
know your secrets and your schemes, but they
are surely objectless now. Leave us. What
attraction has this spot for you ? Y r ou don't
play. Would you not find Paris as amusing
as Monte Carlo ? "

Cazalette stood with face averted. A sound,
half imprecation, half groan, escaped his
lips ; but he made no other reply to Varuna's
appeal.

Will you go ? " she asked impatiently.

He turned towards her. The mask had
been reassumed ; his features exhibited no
trace of agitation. All softness had gone
from his eyes, and gleaming with a sort of
metallic glitter, they seemed to mock at her
earnestness.

Madame Fanoo," he said quietly, " you
are right, and I accept your dismissal. I have
wasted too many years in dreaming sweet
impossibilities. I see now that it needs fire
from heaven to melt an iceberg. I give up
the attempt to work a miracle ! "

"Then you will go!" she exclaimed, in
accents of relief.

"Are you quite wise," he asked, with a
curious smile, "to show your anxiety so

plainly'? It tells me that you have some
stronger feeling towards me than indifference.
To know that you fear me is a temptation
to revenge."

Fear ! Revenge ! " she repeated with disdain.
" We are not acting Mrs. Feather-stone's
melodrama. It is for the sake of my
mother's peace of mind that I beg you to
leave us."

"You ask a great deal of me, Madame Fanoo ;
more than I am prepared to grant. Tenacity of
purpose is one of my chief characteristics, I
think. I, too, have my superstitions concerning
time and place, omens, combinations of circumstances,
and so forth. It was not by accident
that I arrived here on New Year's Eve. I have
a conviction that this year will be fateful to meas
well as to you. I came with two plans of
action mapped in my mind, resolved, should one
fail, that I would carry out the other. To leave
Monte Carlo now would be to give up the

second project also ; and I should be stranded
upon the world without aim or hope."

He waited as if expecting some comment.
Madame Fanoo kept silence. He continued :

I am going to be frank with you. My first
object in coming here was to see you once more
to make one last effort to win you. I love
you so madly, that to gain you for my wife
upon any terms, is to me worth the sacrifice of
every other ambition. You have convinced me
of the uselessness of striving after the unattainable.
The supreme good is denied me. I must
patch up my life with the shreds of happiness
that are left. In these days a man cannot obtain
a bride by force ; and notwithstanding my
passion for you, I am philosopher enough to
make the best of my position. Dear Madame
Fanoo, your advice is good. I am not yet too
old to carve out a career ; but I want money
and an assured social position, by which to back
up the influence in certain high quarters that I

already possess. These I can gain most easily
by marriage with  say an English lady  a
Catholic, beautiful, rich, and well connected.
All these advantages are combined in the
person of Miss Kilsyth. You will understand
why I am unwilling to leave Monte Carlo
at present."

Varuna started violently, raising her arms
with a gesture of indignant scorn.

You must be mad," she exclaimed  " mad
to imagine such a scheme  and, if you have
the smallest hope of its success, still more mad
to tell it to me ! "

Why ? "

Because I would rather see my sister in
her grave than married to you. But I do
not fear you, Colonel Cazalette ; and if I were
inclined to dread your gaining an influence
over Helena, your candour, or shall I say your
vanity, has forearmed me."

Again you wrong me. I approach Miss

Kilsyth in the deepest humility, and my hope
of success is not based on confidence in my own
powers of attraction, but upon a supposition
which I shall soon be able to put to the test
Human motives are very complex, Madame
Fanoo, and love an uncertain force of which
the workings cannot be predicted."

So saying, and not trusting himself to utter
any conventional leave taking, Cazalette quitted
Madame Fanoo's presence and entered the villa.

VOL. II.

EDELWEISS GATHERED.

Mrs. Kilsyth stood before a Venetian
mirror that hung above the fireplace in the
hall, abstractedly gazing at her own image
She was in walking costume, and Cazalette
observed that she was dressed with exceptional
care. Her usual somewhat wild look was
subdued by an expression of tender expectancy
; and with that becoming drapery
of black lace crowning her smoothly braided
hair, and setting off the fine poise of her
head, she was a woman whom to remark could
only be to admire.

"I am waiting for you," she said. "How
have you left Yaruna % "

At the end of the third act, in a situation
which promises to be highly dramatic," he
rejoined with bitter hilarity. " Madame Fanoo
is in the garden. She is tired, unfit to
welcome her sister. I am going down with
you to the station. But the rapide is not
due for three-quarters of an hour yet."

Mrs. Kilsyth sank upon a lounge. Her
breast heaved. She showed symptoms of
agitation.

Oscar," she said, looking up at him in a
helpless, pathetic way, " you warned me
yesterday that I was in your power, and I
promised to obey you. You did not wish to
alarm me. It was only like nourishing the
whip before a high-spirited child. Yes, I
know that your motives are always excellent,
and you have educated my moral sense. I am
afraid that I was a little deficient in old
days. The road to heaven lies sometimes
through labyrinths ; and you have taught me

D 2

that there are crises, occasions upon which we
must shut our eyes, and strike  firm in the
faith that we are instruments of God. That
is the philosophical raison metre of impulsive
creatures like me. But neither for the Church,
nor for you, will I be an instrument for evil
to my children. There's a tigress spirit within
me that can be goaded to frenzy by a
blow aimed at the helpless. You will win
Helena's love, you say  I am ready to help
you ; but if I thought that you would ever
treat her as Fanoo treated my unfortunate

Varuna, I "

You would poison me," said Cazalette coldly.
"But amateur photography is not so fashionable
as it was a few years ago, and I am not in the
habit of taking night draughts. I think that I
may venture upon the risk. During the ten
years in which you have known me, have I given
you no opportunities of testing my goodness
of heart?"

Yes, yes, forgive me ; but I cannot understand
you."

"Do not try."

You once loved Yaruna ; and she is not a
woman to be forgotten."

Or to forget. Listen ; this is the situation.
Yaruna loves George Warrender, who is divided
between an old affection for Helena, and a newborn
infatuation for her sister. You have
mourned bitterly over Madame Fanoo's broken
life. Do you wish to make her happy ? "

Oh, my poor Yaruna ! " cried Mrs. Kilsyth,
the tears streaming from her eyes. " Would
I not for her sake sacrifice my own soul ? Tell
me what I can do V

Marry her to the man she loves. I suspect
Helena of a girlish fancy for this all-conquering
Englishman, which was rooted out at the command
of her confessor. It could not have struck
deep, or she would have been less pliable. Do
you not see that such a fane' reviving now, or

becoming known to its object, might jeopardise
Varuna's welfare ; whereas if Helena's heart,
caught on the rebound, can be transferred to my
keeping, the happiness of five people, yourself
included, is secured, and a great property is not
alienated from the Church ? Do I make myself
clear ? "

Mrs. Kilsyth started from her seat, her face
beaming. " Perfectly ! How could I ever have
mistrusted you ? And how right 1 was to warn
Helena against marrying a Protestant ! That
would indeed be a calamity, for we know that
however ardent in protestations men are before
marriage, they are not to be trusted afterwards.
What insight you have ! Ah," she added naively,
what then is to become of me ? I must turn
moral, virtuous, and domestic too ! It would
never do for me to stay here without Varuna to
keep me in check. I should be pawning the
remains of my jewellery, and starving in a
garret at the Hotel de Paris."

Cazalette smiled upon her as though she had
been a child. " I will take care of you. Come,
we have still half-an-hour to spare. Let us go
into the Casino, and see whether you are in
luck this evening ? "

But you must lend me a few hundred francs.
I am under orders. Varuna has locked up my
money. She has been reading me a lecture as
long as my arm. It chimed with my feelings,
however. I have been in very low spirits. I
hide beneath a mask of smiles the griefs that
gnaw me  and all for a few paltry louis ! "

I shall have great pleasure in supplying
them  a small item added to the large debt
which you will repay on the day that I become
your son-in-law."

Mrs. Kilsyth adjusted her bonnet, and again
looked at herself in the mirror.

"It is unnecessary," said Cazalette. "You
are handsome enough to win harder hearts
than that of a girl. Give up gambling, and

subcutaneous injections of morphia, and you
will wear as well as Ninon che l'Enclos."
They left the villa together.

The sun was setting. There was something
mysterious and fantastic in the mingling of
deep shadow and golden haze. In the east,
clouds lay heavily piled, violet blending with
rose, but to the westward, the Tete du Chien
frowned gloomily, with only a white gleam
striking the edge of its bald precipice.

Varuna had not yet left the garden. She sat,
her elbows resting upon the arm of her chair,
her face buried in her hands. The rapide
was steaming from Nice. This fact was
dominant in her consciousness ; her very heart
seemed to throb with the engine's pulsations.
Helena was speeding towards Monaco  Helena,
whom Warrendcr had sought for his wife.

For her too this was the hour of revelation.
She had seen and measured at less than its

value the struggling passion in Warrencler's
face. A strange tumult of scorn and ecstasy
filled her being. Was he then no stronger
than men whom she despised  slaves to the
intoxication of her beauty, and to the influences
of the hour ? And yet  to her, he
stood apart from all the world. He would
command, and she must obey. For the first
time in her life she knew that resistless
craving which can only be appeased by love.
The sense of loneliness and desolation deepened
till it became despair. Her dream of friendship,
the close, innocent intercourse of these short
weeks  ah, how long they seemed !  had faded
like a mirage, and she stood solitary and
thirsting in the desert. Tears gushed from
her eyes. Her frame shook with deep-drawn
sobs. " Holy Mother, help me ! " she murmured.
Then she raised her eyes, the lashes still
beaded ; and her lips quivered like those of
a child. Maidenly consciousness and wistful

yearning transfigured the pale face. "They
can never call me hard again," she whispered
brokenly to herself, " I can't say any more
that I don't know how to feel. Darling,"
and her voice lingered with ineffable tenderness
upon the word, '" you have taught me to love."

There was a footstep on the lawn, a rustle
among the mimosa branches, and Varuna half
rose, and sank back again, trembling and
confused. Warrender was beside her.

For some seconds he stood still ; and she said
not a word, nor did she dare lift her eyes
to his. But the magnetism of love drew their
souls together, and all the world seemed still
around them, save for the fast beating of the
hearts of each.

The evening glow glorified her beaut', and
his senses were stirred to passion pitch. The
impose of that fair saint still enshrined in the
sanctuary of his being, faded in the presence of
this near, breathing enchantress, whose cold

reserve none but he had ever broken. And she
was his own. Her deep blush, her veiled eyes,
her attitude of expectancy and abandon, told
more than words could have expressed. She
half bent, with head turned away. One arm
was thrown over the back of her chair, the
other uplifted, left displayed the rounded outlines
of her bust and waist. He could see her
bosom rise and fall with agitation beneath the
lace kerchief which was knotted round her
shoulders. Here was no shy girl fluttered by
the first thrill of love, but a woman whose
nature, matured and dignified by the experience
of suffering, was ready to yield without coyness
or protest the sweetness which no man had
ever tasted.

He knelt by her side. Gently, almost
reverentially, he touched her arm, and drawing
it down clasped her hand in his.

You know that I love you," he said very
low.

Varuna turned, and reed-like swayed towards
him. Their eyes met and clung to each other,
in each face, the heart speaking. Her eyes
beamed with a soft radiance such as Warrender
had never yet beheld in them. An imperious
voice within her seemed to cry, "Give, give."
This was the overmastering impulse  to lay at
his feet her crown of coldness and pride,
exulting in the consciousness that to no other
had it been proffered. Kneeling, he clasped
her to his breast, and they kissed as lovers to
whom this rapture of contact has with its
strangeness and newness a deep solemnity.
The faint sound of voices from the villa caused
Varuna to start guiltily from his embrace.

We have been dreaming' she said in
agitated tones. " All this must be forgotten."

Forgotten ! " he repeated. " It will be
remembered with joy to our dying day ! You
love me ; is not that blessed, glorious reality ? "

My sister has come. This  this is the

madness of an hour. To-morrow you will know
that you have deceived yourself."

He placed her hands against his breast. His
eyes glowed on hers, and there poured from his
lips a torrent of passionate entreaty, protestation,
vindication of inconstancy. He
loved but her. On this he would pledge his
soul.

MISS KILSYTH ARRIVES.

Cazalette and Mrs. Kilsyth proceeded to
the Casino, where she, .acting upon the inspiration
of the moment, staked, won, lost,
and finally left the gaming-room richer by a
few gold pieces and in correspondingly high
spirits.

They lingered for a few moments on the
terrace. Warrender passed them on his way
from the Condamine. He merely raised his
hat and went on in the direction of the Villa
Kilsyth.

He will find Varuna alone," remarked Mrs.
Kilsyth, "and the old tale will be told again.
Did you remark the sympathy there was today

between the tables ? One might make
that the basis of a system. Well," she added
sighing, "tomorrow is a saint's day  one
must have a holiday sometimes, and I will
work out a system at home."

The train steamed slowly into the station
shortly after they had descended the hill, and
began to disgorge its gambling complement
from Nice  equivocal English of the gentler
sex, and still more pronounced-looking Frenchwomen,
in large hats and ungracefully fashioned
garments for the most part, taw T drily fine, with
a profusion of paste ornaments or with dingy
gold pins confining ill-combed tresses. These
were all gesticulating and chattering as only
Frenchwomen and magpies can chatter; while
men of the black-browed, greasy-complexioned,
continental type, shabbily dressed, vulgar and
dirty ; old chevaliers dl Industrie with watery
eyes and tottering gait ; sensual-looking
Germans, unctuous Russians, and here and

there a sallow Pole, elbowed each other in
the general rush towards the flight of steps
which leads to the gardens of the Casino.

Mrs. Kilsyth walked eagerly along the line
of carriages. She was pale from excitement,
and could hardly control her agitation.
Cazalette, with more presence of mind, had
already opened the door of a coupe in the
rear, and was helping a tall young lady in
black, followed by an elderly maid, to alight.

Helena stood for a moment irresolutely
upon the platform. She looked tired and
bewildered, and there was a faint expression
of disgust upon her features as she surveyed
the crowd around her. Then, recognising her
mother, she advanced and was received in a
tender embrace.

Mother!" the young girl whispered
passionately.

The meeting was too momentous for many
words. " My darling ! " murmured the elder

woman. Then the two stood apart and surveyed
each other, their eyes shining through
tears of joy.

How beautiful you are, Helena ! " said
Mrs. Kilsyth.

My own mother. At last ! at last ! "
Helena's voice broke in a little sob of mingled
joy and yearning. She gazed at Mrs. Kilsyth
with grave adoring eyes which told so much,
and mutely asked so much more. The look
made Mrs. Kilsyth uneasy. It seemed to
indicate depths and heights which she could
neither probe nor reach. A mist rose before
her own sight. " Come away, my darling,"
she said. " I am a foolish old woman, and I
am afraid to give my feelings rein lest they
should get the better of me."

Helena started, and looked round in a
bewildered way. " Where is Varuna ? " she
asked, controlling herself by an effort.

"She is not quite well; wc shall be with
her at the Villa, in a few moments."

VOL. II. E

Is her chest delicate ? Do you live heir
on her account ? "

"No, my love, to both questions. I live
at Monte Carlo  simply because it is the
most amusing place in Europe ; and both
Varuna and I have gone through so much
that our systems require a certain amount of
stimulus. Helena my love, some people
come here to make a living ; others because
it is a much finer air than Cannes or Nice 
oh, ever so much  so the doctors say ; others
to hear the music. I don't give any of these
reasons for my choice of Monaco as an abode,"
continued Mrs. Kilsyth with wistful gravity.
It suits my temperament ; and you must not
judge that by the temperament of the phlegmatic
English people with idiom you have
lived. We are strangers, my dearest. They
have kept you apart from me, and I have
had nothing to do with the moulding of your
character. Perhaps it is best. You have
been brought up among the Philistines ; and I

well, I belong to the tribes of the wilderness.
You have been taught perhaps to think
ill of me. But say now that you believe in
my love for you, and in my wish to influence
you only for your own happiness."

Mother," replied the girl sadly, "you
have been cruelly treated. We have both
been dealt with unjustly. Neither father nor
guardian have a right to separate mother and
daughter. But all that is past. My home
is henceforth with you. Uncle John's death
was a great grief to me. I have always been
grateful to him for his kindness ; and I
tried to make him love me. But how can I
help thanking our Blessed Lady for giving me
back to you ? "

Mrs. Kilsyth kissed her daughter's hand with
one of those impulsive gestures which made
her still seem youthful. " You make me so
happy, dearest. But I warn you not to expect
too much of me. I am a foolish old mother,
and Yaruna is my tyrant. Now I shall have

e 2

UNIVERSITY

two masters instead of one. Come, she will
be impatient, unless," with a glance at Cazalette,
she has been too well engaged to hear the
arrival of the train. My love, this is Colonel
Cazalette, my best friend. You must like him
for my sake."

Helena thought, but had not sufficient self-possession
to say, that it would not be difficult
to like him for his own sake. His greeting
to her had been full of affectionate respect.
He had smiled upon her very sweetly. She
was much impressed by his manner, and decided
that he looked like a priest in lay
garments.

Villa Kilsyth was but a little distance
from the station, and it was Cazalette who
suggested that Helena would probably be less
tired by a short walk through the Casino
gardens than by the longer drive along a
dusty road.

She acceded to the proposition, and thanked
him with the touch of gravity which he had

already observed in all her words and actions
Mrs. Kilsyth linked her daughter's arm within
her own, and proceeded to ask questions concerning
the journey, while in her staccato
manner she pointed out the objects of interest,
and commented upon the various persons who
passed them, most of whom directed curious
glances at the beautiful English girl. Thus
she seemed to wish to hold her stronger
emotions at bay.

There goes a gentleman f unblemished
honour," she exclaimed, with her artificial
laugh. " There are a great many of those
immaculate beings here  says he has a system
which only requires a capital of one hundred
and fifty louis, and if any one is fool enough
to give him that, he promises thirty louis a
day and proposes to pocket the rest of the
winnings. He came to me. ' No, thank you,'
I said. ' I have had too much of systems, and
can lose my own money without giving it to
other people to lose for me.' '

Mother," said Helena, hesitating slightly,
do you play much ? "

My love, it is my one extravagance, the only
form of excitement necessary to my existence."

Helena sighed. The enthusiasm with which
she had so ardently looked forward to this
meeting had partly faded already, and was replaced
by a feeling of blankness. She could
have fancied that she was walking in a dream.
Even Cazalette's sympathetic glance, which
she encountered upon turning her head, did
not at once convince her that the dream was
reality.

The plunge into her new surroundings, from
the strictly conventional atmosphere in which
she had passed her life, was sudden, and
bewildered her faculties. Sir John Kilsyth,
from a scruple of loyalty, had refrained from
enlightening Helena as to her mother's peculiarities,
and she had merely gleaned that
Monte Carlo was a somewhat undesirable place
of residence, and Mrs. Kilsyth's love of gambling

a weakness to be deprecated. But the
motley crowd at the railway station, a stray
conversation which she had overheard in the
train, and something indefinable . in the associations
and moral air of the place, had produced
in her mind a sense of doubt and of vague
repulsion. And this was hardly now dispelled
by a fond whisper from her mother, as
they paused at the gate of the villa, to admire
the view of curving bay and rock-bound
promontory which spread itself before their
eyes.

How beautiful ! " exclaimed Helena.

You know the legend % " observed Cazalette,
pointing across the misty sea.

Ah ! " briskly said Mrs Kilsyth. " I wonder
how many out of the crowd here know anything
about the legend of Ste. Devote or care
an iota for the beauty of the scenery ? Helena
dearest, you must forget your copy-books and
primers, your platitudes and prejudices. The
deep undercurrent of education flows steadily

at Monte Carlo. I have been all over Europe.
I have seen cities, palaces, society ; but the
pulse of humanity beats strongest here."

She opened the little gate, and smiling, yet
tearful, stood under the shadow of a palm-tree
with arms outstretched to Helena.

Welcome, daughter of the Philistines."

Cazalette made a step in advance, then
stopped and raised his hat. " Good-bye, Miss
Kilsyth. I hope that you will rest well after
your journey."

You are not going ? " cried the elder lady.
No, I insist that you stay and dine with
us. Mrs. Featherstone and Lord Bretland have
promised to look in on their way to the Casino
to be introduced to Helena. See. what a
foolish mother I am ! I must needs exhibit
my beautiful daughter already ! Dearest, call
me a wretch ! I deserve it ! You have been
travelling for twenty-four hours ! If you wish
it, you shall remain in your room."

I am not tired," answered Helena. " I

slept through the night ; and  oh, mother,
let us go at once to Varuna."

They entered the drawing-room, Cazalette
following. It was silent and empty. Mrs.
Kilsyth softly called Madame Fanoo's name, but
there was no reply.

She must be in the library, and has
probably been listening for the sound of
carriage wheels," said Mrs. Kilsyth. " I will
go and find her."

But she paused at the door, returned, then
taking off Helena's hat and mantle, drew back
a few steps and gazed at the young girl with
eyes of fond admiration.

Eeleasecl from her wraps, Helena stood
forth, slender as a lily, but with a stateliness
of carriage which partly counteracted
the impression she gave of delicacy and
immaturity.

Cazalette also observed and mentally appraised
her.

Her beauty, of a different type, was as

undeniable as that of her sister. Here, he
decided, were no subtle and complex impulses
to be contended against. The grey eyes shone
clearly as those of a child ; the oval contour
of chin and cheek, and the soft full lips were
Madonna-like in their womanly sweetness.
For the rest, her appearance had all the
frank innocence and natural dignity blended
curiously with an air of fashion, which
distinguish a certain type of English girl.
Her golden hair was coiled smoothly at the
nape of her neck, a few tendrils curling upon
her forehead. Her smile had a tender gravity,
and her complexion was of the rose-leaf purity
which accompanies this particular shade of
hair. It was evident that her dress owed its
costly simplicity to the skill of an artist, and
all its accessories, to her long gloves and the
carved handle of her parasol, were dainty to
fineness.

There is nothing of the Bohemian element
here," said Mrs. Kilsyth in a tone of playful

regret, looking towards Cazalette as she spoke.
"Well, so much the better, her sorrows will
be the fewer. And now," she added with
an involuntary sigh, " I will seek my poor
Varuna."

She left the room. Cazalette threw open
the jalousies, which had been partially closed,
and addressed Helena :

You find yourself in a new world, Miss
Kilsyth."

Yes," replied Helena in an absent manner.
She looked up suddenly and scanned his face
with the inquiring, faintly beseeching gaze that
a dog might bestow upon a new master. " You
are my mother's friend," she said abruptly.
Why does she speak of my sister in so sad

a

way

Madame Fanoo is to be pitied. Her lot
has been unhappy. She made an unfortunate
marriage."

"But that is past. She is beautiful, admired,
loved. Her life may be sorrowful, but it should

now be painless. I ask because," Helena hesitated,
then continued in a tone of child-like
appeal, " I am a stranger here. I know nothing
about gambling. Is it  is this place so very
terrible ? I am confused  a little troubled.
Two ladies got into my carriage at Nice. They
began to speak of Monte Carlo, and then of
Madame Fanoo. Why do they call her the
Vampire ? "

What !  already gossip has found its way
to your ears ? Do not heed what the world
says, Miss Kilsyth; it is pitiless, jealous, and
eager to calumniate. Your sister is a beautiful
woman, and has the art of fascinating unconsciously.
Well, there is a saying in Monte
Carlo that to play for Madame Fanoo is fatal.
The man who does so is invariably lucky ; the
superstitious will double their stakes when a
new aspirant puts down her louis, but his doom,
in popular opinion, is sealed."

Helena gazed at him with bewildered eyes.

A vampire subsists upon the heart's blood

of its victims," said Cazalette. " Madame Fanoo,
however, charms without effort or motive. No
woman has had a greater number of lovers, yet
not one of those can boast of anything but
coldness in return for his devotion  in two
cases, his life."

Helena shuddered.

I frighten you by my stage talk. There's
a tendency towards melodrama in Monte Carlo,
as you may observe. Vampires don't exist in
real life, Miss Kilsyth, nor do men usually die
for love. Take my advice, think no more of
any disagreeable remarks you may have overheard.
Your mother has evidently not been
successful in her search. Perhaps I may be
more fortunate. I left Madame Fanoo seated
yonder, behind the orange trees. The evenings
so mild that she may be lingering there
still, ignorant of your arrival. Shall we surprise
her ?

He stepped over the threshold, and seemed
to wait for her to follow him. She hesitated

a moment, then walked by his side across the
lawn. Their footsteps fell noiselessly upon
the turf. By a premeditated turn Cazalette,
halting, placed Helena at an angle whence
unseen she might command a full view of the
leafy embrasure. He himself remained in the
rear and waited, while the girl softly murmuring
" Varuna," advanced with timid eagerness.
But her movement was suddenly arrested
by the discovery that Madame Fanoo was not
alone. Her heart stood still, the blood forsook
her lips and cheeks. If a short time ago she
had fancied herself in a dream, how much
more so now when her girlish faith seemed
shattered, and the foundations of the world
loosened. But this dream was a nightmare.
Neither her mother nor her sister had informed
her that Warren der was at Monte Carlo.
Only a few hours before, while half slumbering
in her corner of the railway carriage, her
imagination had pictured him in some wild
spot, striving in vain to banish her image by

the pursuit of research or adventure. She had
smiled in fancy at the futility of such effort,
so confident had she felt of his love. She had
rejected him, but then this unreasonable,
enthusiastic girl believed in constancy, in the
power of religion and the possibilities of the
future, and in secret had dreamed a sweet
dream  of happiness won, after years perhaps
of probation. . At this moment  but a few
short months since he had besought her love 
she beheld him, and he had Varuna's hands
clasped in his, and his eyes were fastened
upon Varuna's face  ah, surely she did not
look cold or disdainful now  his gaze, his
attitude, expressive of the most passionate
ardour, while words of devotion fell brokenly
from his lips.

Helena was brave. She uttered no cry, made
no gesture of anguish or dismay. For a moment
she stood as though petrified, then swiftly
turned and, white as death, faced Cazalcttc.

He had awaited with anxiety the result of

his manoeuvre. From it he expected to gain
some insight into her character, and instruction
as to the means he might best
employ for the end at which he aimed.

Something has startled you," he said ;
what is it ? These shadows are deceptive.
I was mistaken, Madame Fanoo has gone in."

"No, my sister is there." Helena was
shocked at the hollowness of her voice, and
made an effort to resume her usual tone.
But she is talking to a gentleman I know 
whom I did not expect to meet here. I will
not interrupt them now."

And passing him she re-entered the drawing-room.


Poor child ! " murmured Cazalette. " My
first estimate was an incorrect one. That
helpless face hides a brave spirit. She can
sacrifice herself to a chimera, and repress a
cry at finding the man she loves faithless. I
can feel for her to-day. Good God ! And
there are fools who sneer at heroism and love ! "

The irony of the position seemed to touch
his sense of humour. He laughed grimly,
took out a cigarette, and, as he lighted it,
softly hummed an air from the garden scene
in Faust.

His voice recalled the lovers to the world.
Varuna withdrew her hand from Warrender's
clasp.

"I will write, " she said agitatedly. "They
have come back. My sister is here ; we must
go in."

He hesitated.

Come," she repeated imperiously. Her
eyes searched his very soul. In a tone of the
deepest sadness she added, " Which of us is
it that you love ? Do you shrink from the
test already ? "

Varuna ! " he cried. But she turned away,
and with a selfossession at which he marvelled,
lightly caught up the refrain of Casas
song.

VOL. II. F

She acted well, but Cazalette excelled her.
He removed his cigarette as she approached,
and apologised for his reappearance, in a manner
admirably conventional.

The three, each inwardly torn, each taking-part
in the game of dissimulation, and tossing
the ball of commonplace from one to the other,
lingered for a few moments upon the lawn.
Within, new voices sounded. Lamps had been
brought in, though the jalousies remained
open, and the drawing-room presented a scene
of animation.

Mrs. Featherstone, charmingly dressed, and
attended by Lord Bretland and a rival adorer
blond, sunburnt, moustaches, of the type
which is involuntarily associated with a November
day and a damp covert side  was vivaciously
recounting her experiences at a reception from
which she had just returned. Mrs. Kilsyth,
one hand caressing that of Helena, listened
smiling and deeply interested, and apparently

oblivious for the moment of the existence of her
elder daughter. Lord Bretland was languidly
and ineffectively interrogating Helena upon the
weather in England, while the latter stood
against the mantelpiece, mute and almost as
motionless as a statue. Mrs. Featherstone's
attention was attracted by the group in the
garden.

Colonel Cazalette," she cried, " thanks to
you, I have spent the most amusing afternoon !
There's nothing I enjoy so much as meeting
celebrities, proper or improper. I can quite
understand that as you can have the privilege
of a tte--tte with Princess Titchakoff whenever
you please, her parties have very little charm
for you ; but I must say that I consider . you
behaved rather unchivalrously in deserting us
two innocents when we were in, to say the least
of it, equivocal society. Lord Bretland isn't
always equal to social emergencies. I don't
believe, our two selves excepted, that there was

F 2

a single person in the room whose morals could
be called unimpeachable. Divorces were in
the ascendant. People should not show themselves
before the decree nisi has been pronounced.
It's embarrassing, especially when
one has an unsophisticated country cousin to
chaperon." And she nodded at the good-looking
Englishman, who laughed a little fatuously, and
compared his cousin to Mrs. Bancroft in the
gambling scene in Cette, while he drew
back to make way for the entrance of Madame
Fanoo. Varuna advanced to her sister. War-render,
pale, conscious, stood in her rear. Fora
second, across the room, his eyes met those
of Miss Kilsyth. A thousand memories awoke,
and the scene in the avenue at Hallingford
when, standing before the shrine, she had
first bidden him leave her, and had then torn
herself away from the spot and from him.
rose vividly before his imagination. It was a
day of revelations. Helena's glance, though

instantly averted, caused a wild suspicion to
dart through his mind. But it was banished
almost as rapidly as it had been evoked.

Helena ! " said Varuna, extending her arms.

A shudder passed over the young girl's frame.
She started violently, then with an effort at self-command
tried to speak, and mechanically bent
forward to embrace her sister. But the lips
which met those of Varuna were as cold as
marble.

Helena ! " repeated Madame Fanoo in accents
of alarm. " You are ill. Mother, do you not
see that the journey and excitement have
exhausted her strength ? "

I  I am ill," faltered poor Helena, and
fainted in her sister's arms.

THE SISTERS.

All was silent at Villa Kilsyth. The fire
burned brightly in Helena's bedroom  that
pretty chamber which had been so lovingly
prepared by mother and sister for her occupancy,
and where the young girl now lay restless, and
too bewildered to realise yet what sudden
calamity had befallen her. The curtains were
drawn, and flames and night lamp shed a flickering
glow upon their crimson folds, upon the
draped bed and heavy oriental tapestry veiling
the doorway. There was a certain sombreness
in the furniture and adornments, out of keeping
with the brilliancy of Riviera colouring, which
reminded Helena of her own room at Marelands,

and heightened the impression that she was
acting in a vivid dream. Wherever her eyes
wandered they beheld something new yet
familiar. Shadows and spectres seemed to fill
the room. The brazen plaques above the
mantelpiece resembled menacing heads ; each
quaint piece of china upon the whatnots had
an eerie individuality. An altar-like cabinet
of Florentine manufacture, upon which was
reared a massive crucifix and simpering effigy
of the Virgin, was reflected grotesquely in a
convex mirror opposite. Above it hung a
portrait of her mother. Seen by this dim light
the face seemed to smile with the sweetness
of an angel ; while in curious contrast there
stood, upon a small table near, an enlarged
photograph of Madame Fanoo, which, distorted
by some uncertain ray, wore an expression of
coldness, almost of cruelty. The clock was
on the stroke of twelve.

It was not many minutes since Mrs. Kilsyth

had bidden her daughter good-night. Helena,
lulled for the time by a composing draught, had
lain passive and silent, while her mother
remained beside her bed. Mrs. Kilsyth held
her daughter's hand and babbled soft regrets
and phrases of endearment. With these she
mingled vague allusions to Warrender's
infatuation for Yaruna, confused theories upon
the luck at roulette which usually attended
Madame Fanoo's suitors, and irrelevant remarks
upon Colonel Cazalette's virtues. Helena
remembered that Cazalette had carried her
up stairs, and her first conscious impulse towards
him had been one of gratitude for thus promptly
rescuing her from the gaze of prying eyes
and the embarrassment of Warrender's presence.
Mid the crowd of impressions which
had thickened since her departure from England,
he stood out, a distinct and agreeable personality.

Now that she was alone, her former sensation

of numbness gave place to extraordinary mental
activity. Her brain whirled. Thoughts crowded
within her, and seemed to take shape in her
imagination. One by one, she strove to gather
up the links of experience. Each image
and incident  the faces of her travelling
companions, the conversation in the train and
Cazalette's jesting explanation ; the horrible
scene in the garden ; Varuna's greeting and
strange beauty, so much in accord with the
vampire simile ; the blending of enthusiasm,
chill, and sense of isolation on her own part,
which the meeting with her mother had
inspired ; then Mrs. Featherstone's free allusions,
and an impression of something repulsive and
to be shunned in the very air of the
principality  all thronged her mind and produced
in her a state of terror impossible to be
endured.

She started up in bed shuddering. Was
there none in this array of phantoms who

would stretch out to her, sympathetic arms ?
Misery overcame her. She covered her face
with her hands, and, rocking herself to and
fro, sobbed in a passion of grief.

Oh, I did love him," she whispered
between her gasps. " He might have known
that I loved him. He might have waited a
little longer."

The night lamp went out suddenly. Helena
lit the candle by her side. Rising, she put
on her dressing-gown and crept towards the fire.
A pitiful ghost she looked with her wan face,
her loose hair, and tear-stained eyes. Catching
sight of her image in a pier glass she said
aloud : " I am not to be compared to her. It
is no wonder that he has changed."

She sat down in an arm-chair before the
fire and mechanically stretched forth her limbs
to the warmth.

At this moment Cazalette's words recurred
to her  " We are told that vampires used to

subsist upon the heart's blood of their
victims."

They called a new fear into being. Again
she beheld the scene in the garden. Warrender
had appeared to be passionately pleading.
Was it possible that he had pleaded in vain, and
that Varuna, true to the character ascribed to
her,' had, after luring him to her feet, coldly
repulsed him ? Helena's heart beat wildly.
Oh, better far her own desolation, than that
he should suffer. She clenched her little
hands and paced the room in a tumult of
agitation. Presently, taking her rosary, she
knelt and prayed. After a little while she
rose calmer.

As she seated herself again, her glance fell
upon what appeared to be a journal, covered
in blue paper, lying upon a table near her chair.
Upon its outer page was a roughly executed
drawing of the landscape with which her eyes
had become acquainted that afternoon. Here

were the terrace with its marble balustrades,
the feathery palms, the curving bay, and
lowering mountain in the background. Above
the sketch was printed in large letters, " La
verite sur Monte Carlo."

Helena stretched forth her hand for the
paper. She remembered that it had been
bought at the Charing Cross Station by her
escort as far as Paris  an old friend of Sir
John's  and there laughingly bestowed upon
her, with a warning against alarm at its sensationalism.
She had thrust the paper into her
travelling bag and had forgotten it till this
moment. She now opened and read the
publication through from the first word to
the last. Hardly had she laid it down when
a soft knock sounded at the door ; and
without waiting for a reply Madame Fanoo
glided in.

She was wrapped in a white dressing-gown
bordered with swansdown, which intensified her

paleness. Her eyes too were heavy as though
she had been weeping.

She advanced to the fireplace and stood
facing Helena. The latter rose, but Varuna
motioned her back, and cast herself upon the
hearth rug at her feet.

No, no," she exclaimed abruptly, " let me
stay here. You are surprised to see me so
late. I hoped that I should find you asleep,
and I wanted to look at you quietly, and
to see how you had changed. You are
better now."

The charm of Varuna's voice, with its transitions
from harshness to pathos, struck Helena
for the first time, and affected her powerfully.

"You are very good," she answered. "I
am better now  only restless. Forgive me for
having made a scene. I was tired, and the 
the strangeness "

Heightened by Mrs. Featherstone's audacious
chatter! One marvels at the bad taste of

mere acquaintances who can thrust themselves
thus into critical family situations."

There seemed an underlying meaning in
Varuna's last words. Helena was conscious of
it, and inwardly trembled. A few moments
before she would have suffered tortures rather
than betray herself to her rival, for though
her mind had not recognised her sister as
such, feeling, more swift in its operations, had
kindled the spark of repulsion. Human nature
testifies indisputably that it is more bitter to
be supplanted by one near of kin than by a
stranger. Now she felt as though a will
stronger than her own had taken possession
of her, and would force her to reveal what it
chose. There was relief in the state of partial
quiescence. But silence became embarrassing.
Varuna broke it by taking up the pamphlet,
which lay at Helena's feet, and glancing
rapidly over its pages, said eagerly :

"You have been reading this."

Helena replied in the affirmative.

"Ah," the sound was something between a
sigh and a groan. "No doubt you have been
thinking that this is a strange den of iniquity
into which you have innocently fallen."

Is all that is written there true ? " Helena
interrogated firmly.

"As to facts, yes, I should suppose so.
There would be nothing gained by printing
lies ; and reality here is tragic enough."

Are there many such people at Monte
Carlo ? "

Such as ? "

Those whom that lady  Mrs. Featherstone
spoke of."

Divorces, &c. Mrs. Featherstone was
describing the society to be met at the
house of a Eussian princess of doubtful antecedents.
Do not be afraid, these women
shall never come near you. / will take care
of that."

But my mother  my mother's friends,"

began Helena impetuously, and checked
herself.

Say on," said Varuna laconically.

"These things are true," Helena passionately
indicated the pamphlet, " and my mother and
you  Catholics  women  remain here ! "

"Yes," answered Varuna gloomily, "we
remain  we are slaves to a passion which has
ruined thousands, and which is too strong for
us even to try and fight against it. The people
here like to sprinkle vice with patchouli and
rosewater, and they put forth a thousand
sophistries to justify the existence of the Tripot.
My mother cherishes a private theory that she
is under the protection of the saints, and is
encouraged in it by the priests, who are paid
by the Directors. As for me, I prefer to state
the unvarnished truth. If there be a devil,
assuredly his seat of government on earth is the
Casino of Monaco. My poor child, I shock your
sensibilities ; but better now than later. Speak
what is in your mind  it will do you good."

But Helena made no response to the appeal.

My pity may seem to you a mockery,"
continued Yaruna ; "but it is genuine. I would
have spared you this had it been possible."

Why should I be pitied ? It is not of myself
that I am thinking," said Helena, with a resentment
that was yet pathetic. She winced
under Yaruna s probing, every nerve of her
being was jarred. She longed to bid her sister
depart and leave her in peace, and all the time,
was unreasonably impatient with herself for
the failure of her efforts to appear warm.

It has been the dream of my life to be
with my mother," she continued, not looking
up, her manner mournful and abstracted, as
though she hardly knew what she was saying.
Young as I was when our home was broken
up, I never forgot her soft, pretty face, and gay,
loving ways. Often at night I used to wake up
and feel her arms round me, as when she bade me
good-bye. For years I was bitter and heartsore.

VOL. II. g

When I was no more than a child my uncle
and Father Clifford told me that she had become
an Atheist, and that it was for this my father
had separated us. Then there was an object
for prayer. Ah, how I fasted and prayed, till
God had brought her back again ! I knew by
the tone of her letters, by all that she told me,
that she was changed. Since then, she has
been my guardian angel. When I have been
tempted against my conscience, she has warned
me against selfishness, and has bidden me obey
the Church. If I pictured a saint, it was my
mother's face that I saw. I never dreamed of
purity, holiness, self-sacrifice, that I did not
think of her And through these years
she was in this place, among these people !
Were my visions false then ? Was it all fancy
my childish enthusiasm wasted ? "

"No," cried Varuna, her eyes glowing.
Enthusiasm and love are never wasted. Oh,
love, Helena, love always, and be true to your

heart's impulses when you may. Love is not
fanaticism ; it is religion."

Helena started. Varuna's words were the
echo of Surrenders passionate protest, uttered
so few months  and yet how long !  ago.
The latter went on :

Want of enthusiasm is the curse of narrow
natures like mine. Cling to your faith. I was
wrong, cruel, to speak so bluntly. Our mother
is the most impulsive, warm-hearted, and in
some ways, most child-like of women. We
have no right to judge her. If she has foibles
they have at least never weakened her affection
for her daughters. As for the contrast between
your ideal and the reality, don't dwell upon it.
Ideals are not meant to be realised
Helena ! " Varuna spoke very softly ; and
bending forward took her sister's hand within
her own. " I have something to say to you.
Helena, when you w r ere a child  when we were
at Halliiigford together  you loved me ? "

G 2

Yes  indeed yes  and ever since."

Till to-day. You will love me no more as
in old days. Your ideal of me has vanished too.
But if I seem to you cold and unwomanly,
and perhaps worse, think that I have been
brought up in a harsh school, and that I have
suffered deeply. People will tell you here that
I am heartless and mercenary. It is true ; but
there is something of the mother instinct in me
still. I have a little daughter. It would be
better for her if she were dead ; but if she were
like you, and exposed to danger as you are now,
would I not try to save her ? Because we are
sisters, and, Helena, for the sake of those old
days at the Abbey, I am going to ask a promise
from you."

Varuna paused for a moment, then continued
in a more matter-of-fact manner :

You asked me why we remained in this
place, and I told you that we were slaves to a
passion which would not let us go. AVe are not

wholly to blame. Philosophers are beginning to
discover that the laws of heredity rather stultify
the doctrine of free will. My mother and I, and
perhaps you also, have inherited the vice of
gambling. It is as fatal as a craving for drink, or
any other bad propensity. If we did not play we
should go mad. You cannot conceive what the
excitement of it is, till your stake is put down,
and you feel that a mysterious force is at work,
which you don't know and never can comprehend,
and that it rests on the laws of chance
whether your gold is raked away or doubled.
What does one care for sermons at a moment
when your blood is stirred and you feel yourself
living ? It's like wine to a thirsty drunkard or
blood to a wild creature. The test would be too
dangerous for you. I will save you from temptation
if I can. Swear to me that you will
never play at these or any other tables."

Is that all ? " said Helena with a mournful
wonder " See how readily I do what you ask.

She took up her rosary and kissed the crucifix as
she solemnly gave the promise Varuna had
demanded. " Will you not do so much for
yourself?" she said earnestly. "It makes
my heart ache for you, to hear you speak so
hopelessly. I am younger than you, and we
have been kept apart, so that I know nothing
of your life except that it has been unhappy.
But you who are so beautiful, and who have
the gift of making every one love you, why do
you despair ? Have pity upon my mother
and yourself. Free yourself from the tyranny
of this vice  if it be a vice. Let us all go
away from Monte Carlo. We will live in
some other place as beautiful  a place where
the people are not wicked. For my mother's
sake, Varuna ! "

"Too late," replied Madame Fanoo. "My
nature is formed. Character makes its own
destiny. I have found nothing in life but
weariness and nausea, and I crave for some

sort of stimulant. Gambling is that to me.
It has become a necessity, and why should
I give it up ? It injures no one, and can
make me neither better nor worse than I am.
But with you everything is different. You
are young, unspoiled. Your future is before
you. You will love and marry. Your home
will be in England ; and you must take my
mother away from this feverish, injurious mode
of existence, and give her a new starting-point
with healthful interests and occupations. As
for me, it matters very little what becomes of
me. . . . No," arresting Helena's impetuous
protest. " There is no use in arguing. You
must not pay any attention to my gloomy
words. Don't think of me. Think only of
yourself. I am not well this evening. I amin
low spirits. To-morrow you will see that I
am another person. To start a new subject 
how are you impressed by Colonel ( Jazalette ? "
Oh, why discuss such an utter stranger ?

Ee is so, to me at least. He seems kind and
pleasant ; but I have not thought of him."

." He is a person who obliges every one to
think of him. They say that the surest way
to prepossess a woman in favour of a man you
wish her to dislike is to warn her against him.
Nevertheless I will run the risk, and put you
on your guard now against believing too much
in Colonel Cazalette. He will try to make
love to you."

Helena smiled in sad scorn.

That would be to very little purpose. You
have a wrong impression about me, Varuna.
I shall never marry."

"What! so young  only nineteen; and the
life's drama played already ! Do you know
that I am something of a fortune-teller ? Let
me see your hand."

Helena tendered the pink palm. Varuna
scrutinised it for some moments in silence.

Your lines tell me a story. Not long ago

the man you love, asked you to be his wife ;
and you refused from a mistaken idea of duty.
You were wrong. Man and woman existed
before creeds. Love is the only lasting religion.
Faiths and formulas are empty shadows. Be
true to your own heart, and that shall bring
you peace. Oh, I can't act to-night. Why
keep up the farce ? I know what you saw in
the garden. There ! " She released Helena's
hand, and rising, looked down upon the
trembling girl. Feared to her full stature,
her white robes clinging round her form, her
dark eyes dilated, she might have represented
a prophetess or sibyl. " Helena," she went
on, " a man does not love and forget so easily.
He may be led away by a temporary infatuation,
but the true heart will never wander for long.
George Warrender was yours before he became
mine. I give him back to you."

You are generous," replied Helena with a
sarcasm foreign to her nature ; " but granting

that I was mistaken and miscalculated my
strength, I have some pride, and he can
hardly he tossed backwards and forwards like
a child's plaything. I had no right to suppose
that he would remain constant to a
dream. I sent him away, and my reason for
doing so exists still."

What ! in the face of your knowledge that
you love him ? Great heavens ! I do not
understand such reasoning. What do you
know of the misery of a loveless marriage 
the shame of it  the wickedness of it ? If
you knew, you would die rather than castaway,
for the sake of a chimera, the highest
good which can be given to a woman. Perish
priests and the confessional ! Live love and
truth ! Oh, my God ! if at seventeen I had
had such a chance of happiness ! "

Varuna's passionate words carried her beyond
the power of self-control. She buried
her face in her hands, and wept unrestrainedly.

Helena sat dumb with inward anguish.
Varuna's paroxysm did not last long. Gradually
her sobs subsided, and she stood silent,
knowing that she had betrayed her true feeling
for Warrender, and uncertain as to the
effect which her outburst would have upon
Helena.

A thousand impulses warred in the breast
of each. They were sisters ; their cause of
trouble was the same. In a manner their
hearts yearned towards each other, and yet
between them there seemed to have arisen an
impassable spiritual barrier, barring any approach
to sympathy. The mutual consciousness
was too painful. Helena made a movement
towards her sister, but a wave of
Varuna's hand arrested her. At last she
spoke brokenly :

You are nobler than T. . . . I admire and
honour you  but, oh, forgive me if I seem
irresponsive. What can I say ? The position

is unnatural. It is you whom he loves ;
how could it be otherwise ? I have no cause
for regret or bitterness. I bade him forget
me, and he has done so. There cannot be
any question of sacrifice on either side."

Aran a looked steadfastly at her sister.
"You must answer me one question truthfully.
I think that I have the right to ask it. If
the last year could be lived over again, would
you still bid him leave you ? "

Helena blushed deeply "Oh, I cannot tell,"
she faltered, clasping her hands in agitation.
Everything has changed ; I am weak, bewildered.
I have been visionary ; I see it
now. Perhaps my judgment was entirely
wrong. My mother's presence was a sort of
spiritual companionship to me, I felt that
she would disapprove of my marrying a Protestant,
and that we should be separated
further. . . . And then, I did not think  1
know now that unconsciously to myself I did

not mean the decision to be final. Don't ask
me any more questions ; they only pain me ;
talking does no good. God did not intend
that I should be happy in that way ; nothing
can alter the position."

You are right," answered Yaruna. " The
position is an unnatural one. The sight of
me must be grievous to you, and my mad
impulse in speaking out to-night has done no
good."

"Yes, it has shown me what a noble woman
you are. You make me hate myself; but at
least I am thankful that all is open between
us. See, I confess that I am bitter and
jealous. Only a little while ago I wronged
you in my thoughts. I have heard already 
or I have fancied  horrible things. It is as
though there were a spell about you, or about
this place. What is it ? This is what I heard
in the train to-day between Nice and Monte
Carlo  that you fascinate men, and make them

play for you, because those who love you always
win at first. "When the luck changes you
turn them away, and sometimes they kill
themselves in despair. Is it true ? Is this
how you have earned your name of the
Vampire ? "

Varuna uttered a hysterical laugh. " And
people say that the nineteenth century is a
prosaic age ! " she exclaimed. " I suppose that
there is a sort of evil enchantment about me,
for I bring no one any good. I do not try to
fascinate men, but I have the misfortune to
attract them. It is my coldness which makes
them spread evil stories about me. If I were
one of those women who are to be seen at the
Casino there would be no scandal, for I
should be assigned to my proper level. As
for roulette, I seldom stake for myself,
because if I do I invariably lose. Experience
has made me superstitious on the subject : I
had better own at once that I am morbidly

superstitious. It is true that men who love

me usually win Come, we must not

talk any more. If you begin to imagine
that you are in a land of spells and
sorceries you will never get to sleep tonight,
and you must be in sore need of rest.
Good-night, Helena. Do you believe that I
am honest, and, after my fashion, loyal ? "
She held forth her hands wistfully.

Yes, I do believe in you." Helena clasped
the outstretched hands.

And that I love you ? Perhaps I too
have cherished illusions, and am now watching
them fade. Because we are women, do not
let us forget that w T e are sisters. Now each of
us knows the other's heart. To-morrow we
will take up our roles, and play our parts
bravely. Good-night."

She kissed the pale, wondering girl, and
then silently left the room.

Farewell.

Early the following morning Warren der
received a note from Madame Fanoo. It-was
very short.

I beg that you will look upon what took
place yesterday as a dream  nothing mere
Let our next meeting be upon the first footing
of friendship, and till I give you permission,
speak no further word of love. In the
meantime, will you do me the greatest
kindness in your power, and go away from
Monte Carlo for a short time ? I have strong
reasons for making this request, and I know
you well enough to feel assured that you will

grant the favour for which I most earnestly

beg.

V. F."

Warrender's first impulse was to protest
against this dismissal and to insist upon his
rio-ht to an answer after his declaration of
the previous day. At least, he felt himself
justified in imploring for another interview.
Upon reflection, however, he decided that at
present the truest proof of devotion would
be literal compliance with Varuna's wishes.
He wrote more formally than she had done.

"My dear Madame Fanoo,

I will do what you require, and will
leave Monte Carlo this evening. To obey
you is hard indeed ; but I think that by
thus placing myself at your disposal, I can
best convince you that I am yours heart
and soul.

I find it difficult to understand your

VOL. II. H

motive in sending me away, and in forbidding
me to speak of what is uppermost in my
thoughts. It may be that you fancy there
is some reason to doubt the stability of my
feelings. I fear that it may be months before
you have entire faith in my unchangeable
love for you, but I know that the time will
come in which you will trust me, as I now
trust you.

"Yours always devotedly,

George Warrender."

In writing the last words, Warrender had
no underlying intention of impressing upon
Madame Fanoo the fact that she had
committed herself in a manner which should
mean everything to a woman. He simply
accepted that passionate kiss of yesterday asa
proof that she loved him. Her reply as to
whether she would or would not become his
wife could not alter his conviction on this
point. To doubt would be to insult her in

his thoughts. But when Varuna read the
the letter, her cheeks burned, and she shrank
in shame from the recollection it invoked.
She determined that should he call before
his departure, she would not see him.

His kiss still lingered upon her lips, and she
felt that they were consecrated for ever. Few
men possess this refined sentiment. For them
such love passages have not the deep significance
which they present to women. To a woman
the first caress of reciprocated passion is the
ceremony of initiation into holy mysteries.
Marriage has both its exoteric and esoteric
meanings. The wife and mother may fulfil
her material obligations to the letter, and yet
be wedded in soul to another. Faithlessness
to this bond would, be treason to the noblest
instincts of her womanhood.

There is a more binding fealty than that
sworn at the altar.

u

When Warrencler called that afternoon at
the Villa Kilsyth, he was shown into the
garden, where he found only Mrs. Kilsyth and
Helena. The former apologised for Madame
Fanoo's absence, giving as a reason that she had
gone to visit her lame pensioner at Monaco.

Helena was composed, and met her late
lover's eyes without blenching. The night,
or rather the morning, watches had brought
her counsel ; and she had the pleasing
consciousness that she was comporting herself
with dignity. She talked to Warrender of
Hallingford, of the proceedings of his friends
in the county, and of general topics, which
they would have discussed a year before. If
there were an occasional tremble in her voice,
it might naturally have been ascribed to emotion
at the sight of one whom she had last met
during her uncle's lifetime.

Warrender's announcement of his intended
departure from Monte Carlo was received by

Helena in silent gratitude, by Mrs. Kilsyth
with frank ejaculations of sorrow. Cazalette,
who at that moment joined the group, was
puzzled to account for a move, inspired he
felt certain by Varuna, and obviously to his
own advantage.

Mrs. Kilsyth's brain was not equal to analysis
of motive. Cazalette's happy adjustment
of the difficulties of the situation had
completely set her mind at rest concerning the
respective futures of her daughters. It was
not difficult to conceive Helena romantically
attached to Cazalette ; and her imagination
revelled in the picture of Varuna melted at last,
and secure in a bliss which should atone for
all past sorrows. Love was even still a magic
word to Mrs. Kilsyth. She had bewailed
Varuna' s insensibility, and had sighed hitherto
in vain for the coming of the prince. Yesterday
her bosom had glowed with satisfaction. To-day
her hopes sank. It appeared evident that

Varuna remained unconquered, and that
Warrender was sharing the fate of previous
suitors.

She was too outspoken to conceal her dismay.

Does Varuna know that you are going
to leave us ? " she asked abruptly.

Warrender hesitated, and replied evasively,
I had hoped to see Madame Fanoo this
afternoon."

"And the Carnival!" cried Mrs. Kilsyth,
you were to have joined our party."

I hope to return before the Carnival ; if
not, we shall meet at Nice."

Mrs. Kilsyth's face brightened. Upon finding
that Cannes was his destination, she
produced the Liste des Strangers, and ran
over the names of the visitors at that place.
She had a caustic observation to make upon
each of the notabilities he might meet, and a
solemn warning to deliver against a certain
hotel, frequented by a set of patriarchal

Philistines whom she held in abhorrence ;
finally, a long list of commissions which she
desired that he would execute in Nice.
Warrender was upon thorns. He had ascertained
that Madame Fanoo was driving ; and
his only hope of an interview rested upon the
chance of his intercepting her at Monaco.

Cazalette conversed aside with Helena ; but
his eye was upon "Warrender, and it was
through a clever diversion on his part that
the latter was at last enabled to detach himself
from Mrs. Kilsyth and take his leave.

Helena was approached last. She had
moved a little apart, and now stood, with
dreamy eyes looking larger from suppressed tears,
and hands folded nervously upon each other,
waiting for the ordeal of Warrender's farewell.

He was struck by her exceeding paleness.
It aroused in his mind a feeling of mingled
pity and alarm, and again that guilty uneasiness.
A wave of tenderness, fraternal now rather than

lover-like, suffused his heart. This was the Helena
whom as a child he had caressed and sympathised
with. Old memories murmured sweetly. He
gently pressed the hand which she placed in his.

I have had no opportunity," he said ina
low voice, " of offering you my condolences ;
but I am sure you know that I have felt deeply
for you in your trouble. The sorrow has,
however, one compensation, has it not % I
know well what the dearest w T wish of your heart
has been for years. At last it is gratified,
and you are with your mother and sister.
That must be a happiness to you. Helena 
I may still call you so, may I not ? "

A moment later he reproached himself
bitterly for having uttered the words. Of old
at the mention of her mother, a look of sweet
enthusiasm had been wont to illumine her face,
Now there was no brightening smile. Her
lips quivered ; she remained sadly silent and
with eyes downcast.

I think you must know," she at length
began impulsively, and checked herself.

Did lie not know ? He remembered at
this moment, with a feeling akin to remorse,
the sense of profanation with which he had at
first pictured Helena surrounded by the meretricious
accessories of the gambling-rooms.
Then he thought of her girlish day-dreams 
her romantic devotion to her scarcely known
mother and sister  all the visionary hopes by
which she had connected them with her future.
Her eyes seemed to be mutely reproaching him ;
they said so plainly 

My idols are shattered ; my temple i s
empty ; and your presence adds poignancy to
my disappointment."

Helena ! " he exclaimed, in a tone of such
deep pity that the poor girl's heart throbbed
wildly as she listened  "forgive me. I can't
be conventional when I am reminded of old
times, and of what friends we used to be. I do

know ; I understand, and T am sorry for you
more than I can express. This is not what you
expected. But don't be cast down. Take comfort
in thinking of the good you may do your mother.
There will come a better time  for us all."

He paused as though wishing to convey
more than his words would naturally imply.
Helena grasped his meaning and winced
inwardly. There ensued a painful silence.

Good-bye then  for a few weeks only."
Warrender said in a more matter-of-fact manner.
"I hope that when I come back again you maybe
looking stronger. And if I can be of any
use, you will let me know at the Central
Hotel, Cannes. Miss Kilsyth, I may still
count upon your friendship, may I not ? Will
you tell me that I have your good wishes ? "

I wish you well, with my whole heart,"
she replied earnestly. " Good-bye ! "

They shook hands again. Mrs. Kilsyth's
cheerful valediction sounded in his ears ashe

left the villa and made his way towards
the peninsula of Monaco.

As he mounted the hill which leads towards
the fortress Lord Bretland accosted him.

Ha ! my dear fellow, what is this I hear
about your sudden flight ? "

Only," answered Warrender, affecting an
air of cheerful unconcern, " that the Casino
bores me, and I am going to try the dull
respectability of Cannes by way of variety."

But Lord Bretland pursed up his mouth so
comically that Warrender was obliged to laugh,
and thus assured himself that, notwithstanding
Madame Fanoo's cruelty, he was far from feeling
miserable.

Ha ! I shouldn't have thought it. Talking of
boredom, there's that lachrymose septuagenarian
Philpotts taking the air yonder in a bath-chair,
and watching the gigantic manoeuvres of
the Monegasque army. He began just now
whining over the flatness of life, and said he

missed his friends. I asked him what had
become of his friends ; for Monte Carlo is not
exactly a desert, you know. ' Become of them ! '
he shouted, glaring at me as if I had insulted
him. ' Why, d  n them, they're all dead ! '
Funny, wasn't it ? Do you know who I have
just been talking to, and questioning about
your movements  of which, by the way, she
professed an ignorance, incompatible, my dear
fellow, with the aspect of affairs of late ? "

Mrs. Featherstone ? "

Nonsense ! Madame Fanoo. I sallied forth
to the Monaco gardens this morning in search
of inspiration, with the idea of composing my
poem upon The Magician, the Prince, and the
Vampire. Do you remember our little talk
the day of your arrival here ? Is the riddle
too hard ; or is it a case of complications ? I
think that Cazalette and I between us might
engage to square that sweet saint Helena "

Excuse me," interrupted Warrender, " but

I should be glace to say good-bye to Madame
Fanoo, if you can tell me where to find her."

Lord Bretland waved his hand in the direction
of the point, and Warrender proceeded
hastily thither.

Mrs. Kilsyth's pretty pony-carriage, with its
jingling bells and smartly-got-up groom, was
waiting at the curve, and was an indication of
Madame Fanoo's whereabouts. Warrender sought
her on that fairy-like terrace to which she had
introduced him on the morning of the New
Year. She was alone  restlessly pacing the
narrow platform. Now she paused and appeared
lost in thought. Her veil was raised,
and he beheld her pale profile clear against the
smalt blue of sea and sky. From his vantage
point above, he could perceive that the night
had worked ravages. Her features seemed
sharpened, and dark orbits had been hollowed
round her eyes.

Certain vague forebodings, which during his

vigils had alternated with tumultuous joy,
deepened into a defined dread. He knew that
she had been wrestling with the passion which
yesterday had mastered her, and that she
repented having given him the assurance of
her love. Yet he felt that in her nature was
a grand generosity which would prompt her to
give wholly or to withhold absolutely. Whatever
reason she might have for avoiding him,
its root did not lie in coquetry.

His own feelings were so mixed that of none
could he be certain, save of his passionate
longing to make her his own. Melancholy
succeeded exultation. That weird suggestion
rising in his mind as he gazed at her  that
he might have become the victim of an unholy
enchantment  made him smile grimly and withdraw
his eyes. His over-excited imagination
wrought strange vagaries. The very scene
became unreal, and far on the southern
horizon the fleecy touts seemed to shape

themselves fantastically into serpentine Melusina-
like forms.

A start, a mental leap backward to reality.
Yet, impossible to subdue that faint sense of
guilt, or to banish regretful memories which had
been steeped in the intoxication of late weeks.

But the mere anticipation of touching
Varuna's hand thrilled his nerves, and life
seemed narrowed to the sensation of the
moment.

He approached her.

She looked up as his step sounded upon
the rock. A world of unspoken thought lay
between them ; and she stood, shy, full of
troubled consciousness, avoiding his ardent
gaze. He had clasped both her hands in his,
but she gently withdrew them.

I have been to the villa," he said reproachfully,
"And you knew that I should
be there, and yet would not give me the joy
of seeing you ! But I have found you ; and

it is better to bid you farewell here. What have
I done that I should be treated so harshly ? "

You insist then upon saying good-bye !
It is foolish of you. Good-byes are so cruel 
like looking upon the face of the dead. Last
impressions are those which linger longest.
Why carry away one that must be painful
? Now all the time that you are absent,
you will think of me as I look to-day 
at my worst instead of at my best and
brightest."

His heart bounded. Her words were a confession
; and yet she spoke in the deepest
sadness.

I am glad ! I am glad ! " he exclaimed.
Though you send me away, there is comfort
in feeling that you are sorry. You are sorry
are you not ? "

"Yes, I am sorry," she answered gently.

I w r ant no other picture of you than this,"
he continued. " This is the one which I shall

keep in my memory. There's a different expression
on your face to-day to any I have
ever seen it wear."

I have changed then ? "

Oh yes," and he added with audacious
tenderness  " greatly since yesterday."

Madame Fanoo blushed deeply. "It is
ungenerous of you to remind me of what I
wish forgotten. Remember, there is one
forbidden subject And you are really
going away this evening ? Thank you for
doing so readily what I ask."

How long must I remain away from you ? "
said Warrender eagerly. " I want to show you
that I am entirely yours to be disposed of
as you please. Whatever I may think of your
reasons I will respect them. But I beseech you
do not be harder upon me than is necessary."

You acknowledge then that you deserve
a little severity ? " she answered wistfully.
I did not want to see you, because I was

VOL. II. I

afraid that you would ask for explanations,
and I can give you none now'

*you wish to gain time for thought?"

She bowed her head.

"Tell me. Is it of yourself that you are
uncertain, or of me ? "

Of both perhaps  but do not question me'

I will be silent, I will patiently endure
my exile  submit to any conditions you impose.
But don't condemn me to suffer tortures of
doubt. I would serve for you as Jacob served
for Rachel, if I might but hear from your lips
that you loved me,"

You mistake the position," said Varuna
coldly. " I exact nothing. Forget only what
you said to me yesterday. Since it is a sacrifice
to leave Monte Carlo, I withdraw my request."

Ah ! " he cried vehemently, " you are
disingenuous, and I believed that from you I
might always count upon perfect sincerity."

She looked deeply pained.

I have the right to a reply," he continued,
pressing his advantage. "It is not in my
power nor do I wish to forget what was uttered
out of the fulness of my heart."

Very well then," she answered impulsively.
Since you exact perfect sincerity, I will
confess that you are dearer to me than I
was at first willing to allow."
My darling ! " he exclaimed.
No. You must not speak like that. You
must not say another word of love to me. You
must, when you come back, if you cannot
forget, at least ignore, all that wild talk of
yesterday."

Are you trying to put my love to the test ? ',
he asked. " If so, I warn you that it is waste
of time. Or are you so proud that you do
not value a heart which was once offered to your
sister and rejected ? "

"Not very long ago," said Madame Fanoo
calmly, "I pledged myself to help you to be

I 2

happy as far as lay in my power ; I mean to
fulfil that pledge  but in my own way, not
in yours."

Which means "

"That I am not acting from vanity or
from any petty y selfish motives. You will
believe this. If I keep you in suspense, I amin
suspense also. I am troubled and perplexed.
When you have gone, I shall be able to judge
more clearly between conflicting claims."

"Oh, what has reason to do with the matter,
or duty either ? Can there be any claim
stronger than that of love ? Our hearts spoke
yesterday."

We were carried away by the feeling of
the moment. I was ill, unnerved ; and you 
you were so impulsive. . I grow hot dien
I think of it all. I, who so prided myself
upon my dignity ! And now there is one man
in the world who has a right to think cheaply
of me."

God knows ! " he answered earnestly,
that in my love for you there is no tinge of
disrespect, I bring you the worship and
reverence of my soul."

You think so  now. There's a kind of
love which burns up suddenly like a spirit
flame ; and then, simply goes out. And
there's another sort which may lie smouldering
during a lifetime, but can never be extinguished.
It is my misfortune to inspire, in most cases,
desperate but short-lived attachments. Mr.
Warrender, our relations with each other have
been quite unconventional from the first. I
have allowed myself to be so dependent upon
you that the position has become strained and
unnatural. The only way in which we can
get back to frank and friendly intercourse is by
being apart for a time. After your return,
I insist upon your treating me merely as an
acquaintance  or friend, if you like that word
better  at least till my mind is fully made up."

"That is impossible. I will regulate my
manner according to your directions ; but my
thoughts  you might as well order me not to
breathe as order me to think of you in any
but one way. You are my life. You make
my world. Night and day I long for you.
Ah, Varuna, they say truly that you are cold
as ice. Oh, how I wish that you were more
impulsive ! "

Do you not see that I am torn in two,"
said Varuna impetuously. " If I were to act
upon impulse I would decide the question this
moment and would tell you that what you
wish is quite impossible. But I want to be
just to you and to myself; and so I temporise.
I have seen the harm which has come from
ill-considered self-sacrifice. . . . Now I have
said too much. You see that I am quite unfit
to talk to you. Be good to me  you have
been more than good hitherto  and leave me
for the present."

The appeal stirred every chivalrous feeling
in Warrencler's breast.

I will go. But you will forgive me if I put
forth one more plea. It does not need any
reply. You spoke of ill-considered self-sacrifice.
I cannot guess in the least what is in your
mind  unless you have some wild notion that

your sister But that is impossible. She

herself settled that question long ago. Varuna,
I implore you, don't let any false ideas of duty
wreck our lives. Your sorrows have unhinged
your imagination, and have let loose a crowd
of morbid fancies. You have told me that
my influence has done you good. If this be
so, think how much sweeter your life might
be, with my devoted love to shield you from
everything hurtful."

She raised her hands imploringly. " I know
ah, do I not know ! Whatever happens,
you will have made me a better woman. God
bless and keep you ! And now good-bye."

"As you will. One more moment. You
have not yet told me how long my exile must
last."

She appeared to consider. li Till after the
Carnival. Come back when that is over. You
will find us still here."

You will write to me ? "

Oh no. What good would that do ? "

"Friends write to each other," he pleaded.

Our position is anomalous. We are neither
friends nor lovers."

And there is nothing I may take with meno
pledge  no word of tenderness ? "

It is best not." Suddenly she raised his
hand and pressed it to her lips.

Your happiness is very dear to me,
she said falteringly. " Always remember that.
Farewell."

Motioning him to remain on the terrace, she
quitted his side, and ascended the stone staircase.
He disobeyed the mute command, and

followed her slowly to the upper platform.
Thence, he watched her get into her carriage
and drive down the Condamine incline towards
Monte Carlo.

CAZALETTE, A SUITOR.

The cause of agitation removed, life at Villa
Kilsyth proceeded with comparative evenness,
'taking into consideration the exciting elements
which compose the moral atmosphere of Monaco.

Madame Fanoo presented to the world her
usual indifferent, enigmatic demeanour, and if
she suffered in secret, the evidence of wakeful
nights and silent tears was only to be detected
in the worn look her face assumed when in
repose, in her more frequent fits of abstraction,
and the greater show of recklessness with
which she plunged into the feverish dissipation
of the place.

It was a curious fact that, since Warrender's

departure, luck had gone steadily against her.
Adorers staked in vain. She herself laid down
notes wildly, and lost large sums. Mrs. Kilsyth
lamented adverse influences, and redoubled her
religious exercises. The croupiers smiled significantly
when the enchantress left the tables
with an empty purse. It appeared that the
spell was broken at last.

Helena Kilsyth lived in a world of her own,
far removed from these perturbing interests.*
Her inner life flowed in a current unobservable
by spectators. She occupied herself with books,
music, and painting, attended regularly the
services of her Church, and made long excursions
into the neighbouring country, accompanied
by her maid, or by her mother and Colonel]
Cazalette, when the former was able to tear
herself from the baleful attractions of the Casino.

In Colonel Cazalette's society she always
found pleasure. The tinge of mysticism which
coloured his conversation exercised a charm

upon the enthusiastic girl, and he affected all
that devotional sentimentality which lends so
much glamour to the practice of Woman Catholicism.
He was old enough, and his prestige
was sufficient, to inspire her with respect, and
to pique her curiosity, while his subtly conveyed
admiration flattered the innocent vanity of
which no young girl, however unworldly, is
entirely destitute. His abstinence from play,
and the fact, upon which Mrs. Kilsyth dwelt
eloquently, of his having brought back her
straying feet into the paths of religion, caused
Helena to regard him as her mother's good
genius, if not her saviour. In their confidential
talks, and these of late had become numerous,
he would touch delicately upon Mrs. Kilsyth's
passion for play, and upon the desirability of
removing her from Monaco. He alluded, with
a self-command which did him credit, to the
attachment of Yaruna and Warrender, giving
Helena to understand that he was aware of

her rejection of the latter ; and thus smilingly
ignoring any pain which his words might inflict.
Helena writhed inwardly, and yet felt grateful
for the covert sympathy which Cazalette contrived
to infuse into his manner  sympathy
which he was careful should appear grounded
upon the delicate complications of the situation,
and not upon any suspicion of partiality upon
her side towards the Englishman.

Poor Helena was troubled and bewildered.
She felt certain that Varuna had sent her lover
away in an impulse of heroic self-sacrifice, and all
her pride and unselfishness revolted against the
position in which she was thus placed. Between
herself and her sister, though outwardly their
relations appeared affectionate and unembarrassed,
there had arisen a wall of reserve.
Either would have scorned the idea of jealousy.
The heart of each one yearned towards the other,
and yet bitterness and repulsion, stronger
perhaps because unacknowledged, held them

apart. Helena knew not, that often during the
dark hours Varuna would listen at her door, and
then hurry away, shuddering at the sound of
suppressed sobs ; and Varuna, in her turn, was
unconscious that her sister's eyes noted the darker
shades beneath her own, and that every
mournful look, every reckless speech, was a
dagger thrust in Helena's heart.

The confessions which had been made in
Helena's room the night of the latter's arrival,
were by tacit understanding absolutely ignored ;
and Warrender's name was never now mentioned
except in the most casual manner.

As regards Cazalette, Madame Fanoo seemed to
have forgotten her warning, or was unaware of
the frequency of his visits. This was most
probable, for his calls w T ere timed at the hours
when Varuna frequented the Casino, or was
absent upon her solitary expeditions to her
pensioners at Monaco and Boquebrune.

Nothing could have been managed with more

admirable tact. Mrs. Kilsyth had her cue ; and
if ever a doubt crossed her mind, it was dispelled
by the remembrance of a late large loan which
Cazalette had made her, and which had staved
off certain pressing creditors.

Thus the weeks glided on. Spring had come.
Sea and sky reflected each other. Sunbeams
leaped up like diamonds from the waves. The
willows had put forth shoots. Grey walls were
ablaze with mesembryanthemum. The black
shadows beneath the olives were anemone-spangled.
Jonquils and narcissus filled the air
with fragrance, and the tea-roses were in glorious
bloom. King Carnival was about to commence
his brief reign. But upon the very day of his
inauguration, as Mrs. Kilsyth and Madame Fanoo
were upon the point of starting for Nice, a
telegram arrived for the latter from the principal
of the establishment where her child was
placed, announcing that the little girl was
dangerously ill.

The rush of maternal impulse swept away
all other considerations. Varuna dropped her
domino ; threw aside her bouquets of violets ;
stifled the wild joy which she had felt at
the mere thought of perhaps catching a
glimpse of Warrender among the crowd at
Nice ; and set off by the next train for

Italy.

*****

There are few more effectual anodynes to
gnawing regret than the air of a spring day
upon the Eiviera !

It is apt to affect in a peculiar fashion,
temperaments of the fervid, melancholic type.
In them it produces a curious combination
of dreaminess and exhilaration  a condition
in which all that is said and thought has an
irresistible tendency to become arabesque ;
feelings, images, and ideas gliding into each
other, leaving a vague sensation of well-being
tempered by a not disagreeable sadness.

Thus with, Helena upon a certain morning
late in February.

A small expedition had been organised to
Nice by way of La Turbie. Colonel Cazalette
and Mrs. Kilsyth had private reasons for
proposing the excursion. Mrs. Featherstone
was perfectly well aware of its object, but
was understood to be interested in some diamond
and emerald trinkets of a new and
startling design that were being exhibited in
the Eue Masses, Her suspicions on the subject
of Warrender's attentions to Madame Fanoo,
his sudden flight, and its coincidence with
Helena's arrival, strengthened by what she
had gleaned as to his former intimacy at
Hallingford Abbey, stimulated her curiosity
and made her anxious to assist at the
denouement which she foresaw was imminent.
Helena had expressed a desire to see the
Trophy of Augustus and the view from the
heights, while Lord Bretland and Mr. Seeker,

VOL. II. K

the innocent young Englishman, were naturally
in attendance, and completed the party.

General Featherstone was still seeking musical

inspiration at San Eemo. In one of his

late letters to his wife he had mentioned

having found a congenial companion in

George "Warrender. The latter had returned

to Monte Carlo at the close of the Carnival

week ; and after calling at the Villa Kilsyth

had the next day proceeded, ostensibly along

the Italian coast. In fact he had branched off,

and in the hope of seeing Madame Fanoo had

followed her to Milan. His absence favoured

Cazalette's designs, and was a relief to Helena.

The girl was doing her best to conquer

sorrow, and submit to circumstances which she

could not but acknowledge had been brought

about by her own course of action. Her

refusal of Warrender was irrevocable. She

did not wish to recall it. Did not the same

motives actuate her now as then ? She was

angry with herself for having cherished any
vague hope of his constancy ; yet it was not
till now that she realised what balm that
hope had been to her in her misery. For she
had suffered deeply. The reaction after
her heroic resolve had been terrible. At
times her longing and anguish had seemed
intolerable. She sometimes felt them so even
still. But to-day, sunshine and balmy breezes
assuaged her yearning, and her being expanded
in the atmosphere of geniality and affection
by which she was encompassed. Her mother
was unusually placid and caressing. Cazalette's
manner was at once protective and reverential
; even the languid, semi-paternal jocularity
of Lord Bretland, who occupied the
fourth seat in the landau, exercised a soothing
effect upon her nerves.

The carriage bowled along the lovely Cornice
road, so unique in its contrasts of carefully
tended beauty and desolation.

K 2

On one side were the seamed, barren heights,
cairns of volcanic-looking stones, huge tawny
boulders, steep cliffs, indented and streaked
with long black lines, or stretches of lichen-grown,
lentiscus-studded wilderness, with here
and there a stunted pine or dwarfed carruba-
tree casting its dark shadow upon the grey
ground. On the other, a sloping prospect of
orange groves, vineyards, villas and gardens,
Monte Carlo gleaming gem-like below ; wind
and sunlight silvering the quivering olive leaves ;
green of ilex, blending with more sombre green
of firs ; and stretching far to the horizon the
white-crested sea flecked with sails, like the
wings of birds in flight. Farther, the isolated
crag and human eyrie of Eza, rising needle-like
in the hollow of surrounding hills ; and away
north-westward, ranee after range of mountains,
those near brown and bare ; the more distant
ones hazy purple, till, far off, the dazzling

snow clad summits of the Alpes Maritimes
closed in the landscape.

They had left La Turbie, and conversation
had become rather tentative than sustained
or brilliant. It glided from the present to
the past.

If one could only leap back eighteen
hundred years or so," said Lord Bretland
slowly, removing his cigarette as he spoke,
and enlighten the ancient Gauls and Britons
about the wonders of the present day ! Those
old Romans, practical wall-making and bridge-building
fellows, would be worth talking to.
Just imagine the interest Julius Caesar, with
his fondness for making roads, would have
taken in the construction of the Great Western
Railway for instance, to say nothing of the
Mont Cenis or the Channel Tunnel. There
must have been considerably more zest in life
in those days. It always strikes me that
our vaunted progress in bringing us to the

fag end of sensation. The organ of wonder will
soon have become extinct except in the race
of 'Armies, which mobs royalty and stares down
professional beauties. Ye-es, don't you think
so ? " he concluded with his languid formula.

Oh ! " replied Cazalette. " We measure the
past far too rapidly. One is apt to mark time by
its wars, its grand convulsions, and crises, and to
forget the days of dull inaction. We don't realise
how bored we should have felt when communication
was limited and locomotion difficult."

Tell me what age you would choose if you
had to live in the past ? " asked Helena.

"What should you say to the time of
Leonardo da Vinci, when Italian art was at
its zenith ? " he answered with his gentle smile.

Doesn't your first remark apply to art
also ? " said Lord Bretland, taking a long whiff
with eyes half unclosed. " We gauge the
capacities of an age by the masterpieces which
have floated, and forget the number of wrecks

that would have sunk had art been a fashion
then as now. There's too much of it in this
century : one wearies of the jargon. Then, a man
painted because genius or inspiration prompted,
now, because it pays. But even the excellence of
the past is overrated. People are in the habit of
comparing one year's exhibition of the Royal
Academy with the collections of Borne and
Florence or Dresden ; naturally they decide that
the old masters are superior to the modern ones.
But let us choose five of the best pictures out
of the Academy for say a hundred years, and
then make the comparison. I believe the
advantage would be upon our side. What
do you say, Miss Helena ? "

No," replied Helena. "It is not a mere
question of skill, but one of devotional fervour.
The spirit of religion was more with men in
the middle ages than now. They did not paint
for fame or money, but to do honour to God."

A company of mounted soldiers in their blue

braided uniforms and cocked hats rode by, and
stopped to drink at a red-tiled cabaret perched
upon the side of the hill. Sallow children
with great black eyes ran by the carriage,
holding up bouquets of roses and anemones.
The Pavillon wound zig-zag clown to the sea,
its sandy bed a mosaic of garments set forth
to dry, while the washerwomen with their
blue skirts and crimson kerchiefs imparted a
human picturesqueness to the scene. They
were approaching Nice.

Then followed breakfast at the Reserve, and
some desultory wandering along the Promenade
des Anglais, enlivened by shopping on the part
of Mrs. Featherstone and Mrs. Kilsyth. As
they loitered in the gardens listening to the
band, the former drew Helena aside.

Pray tell me," she said, " does Mr. Warrender
intend to waylay Madame Fanoo at San Eemo,
or is it you who have driven him away from
Monte Carlo \ Ah, Miss Kilsyth, there is no

use in trying to look unconscious ; we all
know that a man's heart is most easily caught
on the rebound. Forgive me," she added
with a look of frank appeal which could not
be resented. " Of course I'm impertinent ; but
I feel certain there is a little complication here
which might be smoothed out. I should just
like to tell you the story of my own marriage.
Perhaps you would not suspect that I love
my old General dearly; but it's true, though
I do amuse myself after my own fashion. The
fact is, that he was first of all engaged to my
sister. I went in for politics in those days,
and had gone off to Sydney with my father,
who was delegate at an Intercolonial Conference
there. As soon as ever I came home
and appeared on the scene, General Feather-stone
and I fell in love with each other. He
had made a mistake. People do sometimes
in the first instance, never in the second.
Everybody was so high-souled and heroic, that

through sheer misunderstanding and perversity
we were all three nearly vowing ourselves to
celibacy and perpetual misery. A dear old
uncle of mine solved the difficulty by getting
Edward and me up to his station and sending
for the parson. We went back married, and
not such a long time afterwards my sister
settled down quite comfortably and happily
with a squatter in the Riverina district. There's
the moral of my story. There are women
who can console themselves, and there
are others who can't. Now I'm pretty
positive that Madame Fanoo is one of the
last kind."

Helena made no reply. Somewhat abashed
by her serious dignity, the little Australian
created a happy diversion.

Colonel Cazalette," she cried. " The ponies
are just a trifle more than I can manage comfortably.
I wish, if Miss Kilsyth is willing,
that you would drive her home in my carriage

and give us your places in the landau.
Remember, we are to halt at Koquebrune."

This proposal being seconded by Mrs.
Kilsyth, the change was made. Mrs.
Featherstone's ponies were spirited and fleet ;
thus on the homeward drive, Cazalette and
Helena found themselves some distance
in advance of their companions.

She leaned back thoughtful and unhappy.
Mrs. Featherstone's words had set painful
chords vibrating. He respected her mood,
and except for an occasional disjointed remark
upon the scenery, there was silence
between them till they had almost reached
Koquebrune.

At last he said :

"Miss Kilsyth, I am sure that you are
meditating some difficult question. It pains
me so to see you troubled. You are too
young to be weighted with life's burdens.
Perhaps I understand your position better

than you think. Is there no way in which
I could help you ? "

"I have been wondering' she answered
slowly, "if it would be possible for me to
go away for a time."

"To leave Monte Carlo! Well, I am not
surprised at your wish. But in that case,
your mother and Madame Fanoo would
naturally accompany you."

I want to go alone," said Helena impulsively.
" If it were possible I would return
to England. But strange as it may seem,
I have few intimate friends there, not one
whom I would willingly ask to receive me."

Yes, that does appear wonderful ; but
the cause is easy to guess. You were brought
up a Catholic among Protestants."

It is my lot," said Helena mournfully,
to be out of harmony with my surroundings,
and a source of sorrow and division onions
those who love me."

'" No," answered Cazalette, looking at her
earnestly. " You don't know what lies in
your power; and the blessings you may confer
upon those to whom you are dearest. I ama
close observer, Miss Kilsyth, and I am in
Madame Fanoo's confidence. This may surprise
you ; and it is fair to add that circumstances
rather than her own impulse forced her to be
unreserved. I can enter into your doubts,
your difficulties and your uncertainty as
regards your feelings, which towards your
sister for instance must be strangely contradictory."


The strongest feeling I have towards my
sister is admiration for her nobility of mind."

You are right. It is a grand nature
warped by evil influences. But you would
not be outdone in self-sacrifice."

There is no question of sacrifice  on my
part  but of necessity," replied Helena.
faltering painfully.

Nevertheless you feel yourself, with or
without reason, a stumbling-block in Madame
Fanoo's path. Some strained notion of honour
or generosity forbids her to accept a joy at 
she fancies  a cost to you. You cannot mend
matters by leaving this place for a time. The
struggle would at best only be protracted.
But, if I could show you a means by which
all Madame Fanoo's scruples would be removed,
and the happiness of several people  I trust
also, nay, I am certain, your own,
assured "

"How? Tell me in what way I might
do all this?" exclaimed Helena with an
incredulous smile.

Cazalette checked the ponies.

See, we are at Koquebrune already. The
others are still far behind. Let me take you to
the old fortress. There we shall find a quiet
nook where we can sit down and talk."

The carriage had drawn up at the quaint

little place, where, under the budding trees,
a pair of withered crones sat winding hemp
at a wheel, and a group of tall, dark-eyed
women, their sleek heads picturesquely tired
with gold pins, were playing with their
children in the sunshine.

Cazalette helped Helena to alight, gave the
horses into the groom's charge, and after
addressing some remarks in patois to the women,
and tossing a few centimes to the children,
led his companion through the dark, narrow
streets of the little town.

It was scarcely more than a human rabbit
warren, yet with all the picturesqueness of a
mediaeval town. Rude steps cut in the rock
mounted upwards, and labyrinthine passages
were lost in shadows and darkness. Here were
queer winding staircases, and grotesque gables
and foundations dating back to Saracenic times.
The tiny windows seemed bored in the stone,
and every now and then they came upon a niche

in the old grey wall in which stood a defaced
image of the Virgin  flower decorated, and
before which burned a flickering light.

The church doors were open ; a bell was
softly tinkling, and from under the archway
of a house near, came the subdued sound of
chanting. A line of peasants had drawn upon
each side of the narrow by-way, and all were
waiting on their knees while the procession
of the Host filed by. At its head walked a
white-haired priest. He smiled kindly upon
Cazalette and the English girl, as they kneeled
at his approach. The scene was quaint and
solemnising. The procession entered the church.
The peasants rose, and the street became again
empty. Cazalette and Helena passed on.

He dismissed with a present of money the
little girls who, in a patois of mingled French
and Italian, pressed upon him their services as
guides. Leading Helena over the stones, he
made his way to the ruined tower, whence they

looked down upon the quaintly tiled roof-tops,
the shelving hill-side with its changing foliage
of olives and vines, and far across the sea,
towards the distant Corsican coast.

Helena seated herself upon a stone projecting
from the broken wall, while Cazalette, his elbows
resting upon the parapet, stood for several
moments silently watching her. There was
melancholy, resolve, something of faint inquiry
in the expression of his face. She, glancing up,
felt that a crisis was imminent. For the first
time a suspicion of his intentions dawned upon
her mind, and she quailed beneath his gaze.

VOL. II.

AT EOQUEBRUNE.

At last Cazalette spoke. "Helena."

She started, but did not look up.

Has it ever occurred to you that your own
marriage would solve all the difficulties of
your present position ? "

Helena shook her head. " That is impossible."


Why impossible ? "

She kept silence, but he saw that she was
trembling.

My poor child," he said, speech and look
expressing all the tenderness he had at command,
I know your secret. I know what took
place at Hallingford half a year ago. God

gave you force, at that time, to resist temptation.
He is again testing your strength
by an even more painful ordeal. But though
a weak woman, you are brave and will conquer.
The courage which enabled you then to lay
down your affections at the Blessed Mary's
shrine will sustain you now. Peace and joy
will follow suffering, as day succeeds night.
You have nobly recognised the fact that your
position is not that of a girl without definite
responsibilities or high aspirations, who has but
to consult the inclination of her heart. You
owe a duty to your mother, to your sister, to
yourself, and above all to your Church."

Helena uttered a faint cry ; and rising stood
before him. His words had struck home to
her innermost being. Awe and repulsion
struggled within her.

You are the heiress of a great property,"
continued Cazalette in the same soft wooing
tones  " a property which your father restored

L 2

to the sway of the Church, and which you
have no right to alienate from it by your
union with a Protestant. The same reasoning
does not apply to your sister. She is lukewarm
in her profession of faith. Her life has been
wrecked. The passion for play has eaten into her
soul. In love lies her only hope of redemption.
Let her taste the bliss for which she yearns, and
leave it for God to determine whether it shall
bring; a blessing or a curse, "

His voice broke with concentrated emotion.
There was in his accent a bitterness, even
malignancy, from which Helena inwardly shrank.
It was a revelation of his secret self which
he had never yet made to her. She moved a
pace distant, and turned towards him a frightened
glance. He was looking outward. His
eyes seemed fathomless. His clear, saintlike
profile corrected the impression he had involuntarily
made by his words.

After a moment's pause he resumed :

I would not , have you choose a young
man who would exact from you that which
you could not now give. You have once loved,
as women interpret the phrase ; and passion,
you feel, is dead within you. Perhaps so. But
you are very young, and there are different
degrees of love. Helena, it is not passion
that you require to make your life happy ;
but deep affection, community of taste and
interest ; a faith, perhaps even more unswerving
than your own ; a heart to which you might
confide every grief and joy, every difficulty
and triumph ; a loyal devotion and earnest
sympathy upon which you might rely as long
as life should last "

All this would be hard to find," murmured
Helena ; " and for me such a marriage is
impossible."

Why ? " he asked again.

I cannot tell you."

Ah ! the reason is not hard to guess. But

will you not open your mind to me ? If
friendship can be measured by deep interest,
I am something more than a friend. May I
not put forth this claim to confidence ? "

"There are confidences," said Helena, in an
embarrassed manner, as she nervously broke
off some twigs from a shrub of myrtle which
grew in an earth-filled crevice of the wall,
which are only given under seal of the
confessional."

Cazalette regarded her thoughtfully before
replying.

"If I were a priest," he said softly, " you
would bare your soul to me ; and I should
have the right to offer you advice and consolation.
But I am not a priest. I am only
a man with keen insight and strong feelings
to whom the welfare of your mother and
sister is dear, for old friendship's sake ; and
to whom your welfare is more than dear 
for another reason."

"For what reason?" asked Helena in an
impulse of desperation.

Because I love you ; and it is the desire
of my heart to make you my wife."

He advanced : but she shrank back, holding
her arms out before her.

No, no J " she cried. " You must not say
that ; it is unnatural, horrible'

Unnatural, that I should love you j
Horrible, that I should see you in trouble,
and, knowing that I had the power to help
you, refrain from using it ! If you would
commit yourself to me, all your doubts would
melt away. I ask nothing from you for the
present but the right to guide and shield you."
You do not love me," exclaimed the young
girl with a decision which only strong revulsion of
feeling could have produced. " You love my sister."

Cazalette was for the moment abashed
by the accusation. A slight flush tinged his
olive cheek. He hesitated.

Madame Fanoo has a great power of attraction,"
he said. " I admit that she attracted me.
But that is a story of five years ago. The
dream was over long before I met you. You
must have seen that since your arrival I have had
no thought but for you. Do you believe me ? "

Oh, I do not know what to believe or think,"
cried poor Helena. " I have looked upon you
as one quite apart from such thoughts  as a
counsellor, almost a spiritual adviser ; grave,
learned, and far wiser than myself. I fancied
that you were my mother's friend."

I am your mother's friend. Are the two
things incompatible ? Once I had a great
influence over her, which I tried to exert for
her good ; but it has been counteracted by
that of roulette. There is no stimulus so fatal
as that of gambling. Now the evil is too
deeply rooted ; and without resorting to
desperate measures, my efforts would be of
little avail. I want to save your mother from

the ruin of both, body and mind. No one
knows her danger as I do. Perhaps you are
not aware that she is in the habit of winding
herself up to the required pitch of excitement
by means of opium. Morphine is suicide to the
gambler. She is killing herself by inches.
This life is her destruction. I have built strong
hopes upon you ; and so unconsciously has she
herself. In part she realises her peril, but has
not the will or the power to break her chains.
She herself is most anxious for your marriage
with me ; and would consent to leave this
place and make her home with us. Then, to
wean her from this deadly infatuation would
be a labour of love. Would any man but myself
work with you in this ? Even if it were a
sacrifice  Helena, it would be my aim to make
you happy; to fill your life with abstract
interests and. nobler occupations than those of
the common herd. A husband should be something
more than a lover. You have already

begun to look upon me as a friend, a not disagreeable
companion. AYould it be too great
violence to your feelings to consider me in a
nearer relation ? Well, even were it so, the
duty to a parent must be of weight. Did they
of old who were called by God shrink when a
sacrifice was demanded of them ? Think of
St. Marina, St. Lucy !"

Helena shuddered. She leaned upon the
parapet and covered her face with her hands.
Cazalette's words fell like drops of burning
lead, searing her heart. Then followed a strange
scene of far-awayness. The scene became
dreamlike. For a moment the old spirit of
exaltation rose in her breast, and carried her in
imagination to her oratory at Hallingford. She
felt again the girlish enthusiasm which would
have spurred her to self-immolation for her
creed or for the sake of those she loved. She
beheld the image above the altar of Mary,
holy, pitying, which from childhood she had,

in some dim way, connected with the fancy
that her mother, like a guardian angel, was
watching over her. A movement of her companion
dispelled the illusion. The instinct of
womanhood leaped up mighty in her bosom.
'' I cannot, I cannot," she murmured.

"Arid your sister," continued Cazalette, " she
also may be rescued, and through you. For
myself "  and again Helena remarked in his
voice that strange tremor, conquered in a
second  " if I loved her still, should I be anxious
for her union with another ? Would I not rather
do my utmost to separate her from my rival ? "

Ah no," said Helena raising her face ;
"for she loves him."

The manner in which she uttered these words
betrayed too surely the anguish she was enduring.
Even Cazalette was moved.
Helena," he said taking her hands in his,
"do you think I don't feel for you? Ah,
if you but knew ! It is my sympathy which

justifies me in urging you against yourself.
You love this man. Now that he is gone
from you, past recall, you regret having sent
him away. The strength which enabled you
to resist him at first, when you believed his
heart wholly yours, and there seemed a glimmer
of hope in the future, fails you now that the
matter is beyond your choice. Your weakness
is natural, womanlike, but it is not duty, it is
not heroism  it is hardly reason."

I beseech you, do not say another word
in this strain," exclaimed Helena passionately.
You humiliate me past endurance. I know
well that the matter is beyond my choice. I
know well that I am a backslider, and a
hindrance to the happiness of others. I know
that I am weak, miserable, incapable of heroism.
Duty ! Heroism ! After all, they may be in my
case no more than fine sounding words, 
to lead me to destruction. There is
one sacrifice which can never be a woman's duty.

I will not make if. To marry without love is
a crime  it is worse, it is a degradation."

As she spoke Mrs. Featherstone's laugh floated
up from the street below. The rest of the
party had arrived, and were scaling the height.

Is this my answer ? " asked Cazalette.

His composure quelled her vehemence. She
blushed deeply and faltered, " Forgive me, I
was carried away / by my feeling of repugnance.
My answer is that I am grateful to you for your
kindness, that I am ready to believe in the
purity of your motives and in your affectionate
regard for me ; but that I can never, never be
your wife. . . . Colonel Cazalette, you will
forget this. "We cannot go back quite at once to
the old footing, but we can try to be still friends."
She spoke with a grace and dignity which impelled
his admiration, and at that moment he was perhaps
nearer loving her than ever before. She would
have left him, but he prevented her by an abrupt
movement which barred the narrow passage.

"Miss Kilsyth, I clo not accept your dismissal.
I am not a man to waver in a purpose
deliberately formed. There are yet other
arguments which I have hesitated to employ.
You will listen to them, and you will yield."

You can use no other argument, sir, except
force, and that is hardly possible in this
century," replied Helena proudly. " I should
like to join my mother. Will you be so good
as to let me pass ? "

Cazalette looked at her with one of his
enigmatic smiles, but did not stir. A deprecatory
gesture excused the discourtesy.

"It is a curious little drama, and I seem
destined to play in it the part of conventional
villain. I must confess that my sympathies
have always been in favour of this gentleman
as represented upon the stage. He is as
necessary to the development of the plot as
the devil to popular theology. It is his metier
to be put to confusion. No situation is for

him too unbecoming or too revolting. His love
is held up to contempt, and no one takes the
trouble to consider whether he is a mere
puppet, or whether his actions are not capable
of a deeper interpretation than appears patent
to the audience. It is not a role which suits
me, but I shall do my best to elevate it.
Sweetness, suavity and tenderness agree better
with my natural disposition. But when one is
merely an instrument, motive is not taken into
account. The Jesuits are the master-minds of
our religion. There is a tenet ascribed to them
which maintains that a worthy end justifies
unworthy means. You are too young to
appreciate the value of this principle, but I
beg you to try and reason upon it, when you
misjudge me, as you will shortly do. You will
condemn me, perhaps hate me for a time, but
you will yield. Yes  you will yield."

The words seemed a menace, but they fell
soft as honey from his lips. A strange

bewilderment seized Helena. The ruined fortress,
the mediaeval town, the unfamiliar sights and
sounds, the relics of old-world life around her ;
and above all, the man before her, with his odd
mixture of cynicism, unscrupulousness and
earnestness, his impassive bearing and melodramatic
utterances, all impressed her imagination
with an overpowering sense of unreality. It was
a relief greater than she could have expressed
to hear Mrs. Featherstone's rippling gabble, Lord
Bretland's languid nineteenth-century tones, and
her mother's voice calling "Helena, Helena."

With a bend of his head, as though to
emphasise his permission, Cazalette moved
aside for her to pass. She darted forward, in
her eagerness almost falling over the loose
stones ; but he with suave courtesy offered a
helping hand, which she could not refuse.

Pray take care, Miss Kilsyth, these descents
are dangerous, and a slip may mean a
sprained ankle, or worse."

Mrs. Featherstone's keen eyes alertly roved
from one to the other, but her curiosity found
no satisfaction in Cazalette's demeanour, which
was as cool and unembarrassed as it had been
a short time previously at La Turbie and
Nice. He talked guide-book lore with the
knowledge of the scholar and easy wit of the
man of the world, and succeeded so well in
amusing the party that, when the place was
again reached, Mrs. Featherstone regretted
vehemently that the afternoon was waning,
and that many of the dark crannies of Eques
remained yet to be explored,

Helena drew Mrs. Kilsyth apart.

"Mother," she said with decision, "some
other arrangement must be made for the homeward
drive ; I will not sit in the same
carriage with Colonel Cazalette. You must
take my place."

Mrs. Kilsyth turned pale as ashes. She
asked no question, but it was evident that

VOL. II. M

she divined what had happened. Her eyes
quailed before those of her daughter, and she
knew that her hour had come.

Helena took her seat in the landau beside
Mrs. Featherstone, and Mrs. Kilsyth drove
home in the smaller carriage with Cazalette
as her charioteer.

The ponies flew down the zig-zag incline.
Cazalette and his companion appeared to be
talking earnestly, and then became lost to
view. When the landau drew up at the gate
of Villa Kilsyth, and its occupants entered
for a moment ere dispersing, the mistress of
the house was standing alone in the hall.
All observed that her manner was forced and
strange. She was trembling, apparently from
nervousness, and her face showed signs of
weeping. She bade them a confused goodnight,
then, without making any remark to
her daughter, retreated to her own chamber.

mrs. kilsyth's confession

Neither Helena nor her mother appeared at
dinner that evening. Almost simultaneously,
a message was sent from each one to the other
excusing herself on the plea of fatigue.

Helena passed the hours in revolving wild
plans for the future. At one moment she
determined to appeal to her mother, to implore
that the latter would take her away from
Monte Carlo ; and having once persuaded Mrs.
Kilsyth to forsake the fascinations of the
gaming-table, Helena calculated upon her own
powers of persuasion to prolong the banishment.
Then, again, she debated upon a
possible refuge in England till Varuna's fate

M 2

should be decided, and had seated herself to
write to the Lady-Superior of a Sisterhood in
London, with whom she was acquainted, when
the door opened and her mother entered.

She stood as if uncertain whether to advance
or retreat. Her face was flushed at one moment,
then became dull and pale. Her eyes wandered
round the room in a restless gaze, and the
contracted pupils added wildness to their expression.
Helena, alarmed, questioned mutely
by her glance ; but Mrs. Kilsyth gave no
explanation of her discomposure. She approached
the fireplace, and placed herself in a chair
opposite the davenport at which her daughter
was seated.

To whom are you writing, Helena ? " she
asked abruptly.

The girl hesitated, then replied : " To
the Lady Superior of the Convent of the
Ursulines."

In England. So you already wish to

return. We are all too wicked here for one
so holy.

' Thou art too heavenly pure
To commerce with such grossness as mine.'

How do the lines go ? I have forgotten them.
You want to get back to your regular hours
and family prayers, and ' prunes and prism '
respectability. You see now that your father
was right in separating us. Is it not so % "

Oh, mother, you mistake me. I don't
want to leave you. If you would only come
away with me, how glad I should be ! I would
almost rather go anywhere than to England ;
but I know of no other refuge. Mother, will
you take me home ? "

"No," abruptly answered Mrs. Kilsyth. "It
is impossible now. Under other circumstances
you might lead me like a lamb. You talk of
a refuge. From what ? The contaminating
influences which surround you here ? Well, fly

from them. I make no objection. Go home
and join the chorus of the Pharisees. I will
admit that this is a wicked place  the resort
of all the sinners in Europe. Well, it suits
my temperament."

Mother," cried Helena, " you do yourself
injustice. You have gradually become accustomed
to  to what repels me. You have been
unhappy  poor mother !  and have felt the need
of excitement. If your life had been different
you would not have cared about gambling."

Yes, yes," said Mrs. Kilsyth, eagerly. " I
am not responsible for myself. Wickedness,
my Helena, depends greatly upon three things
climate, circumstances, and hereditary influences.
It is a great mistake to suppose that
virtue is a question of free will. There's no
such thing as free will. We are all more or
less what our great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers
have made us. You are fortunate
in that respect  more fortunate than your sister.

The Kilsyths were always models of propriety
till your father married me. I came an alien
to the fold, a hybrid into a flock of bleating
goats. You have never been given any particulars
of your mother's parentage. You were
not told that I am South American by birth,
and that you have a thin current of Aztec
blood running in your veins. A child of the
sun ! There is something in the idea incompatible
with Hallingford Abbey and the county
families." And she laughed in a hard, joyless
fashion.

I have never been told anything about your
history," said Helena, watching her mother with
vague uneasiness ; " we have been kept so much
apart, mother."

That was your father's work. He never
trusted me, though when we first married I
could do with him almost what I pleased. I
had the power of fascination, child; Yaruna has
inherited it from me. But it does not do to

mix races. The south should keep to the south,
the north to the north. Mingle them, and
there's no telling what the result may be 
misery, disaster, the ruin of body and brain.
. . . I often think, Helena"  touching her
forehead in a helpless way  "that there's
something strange about me  here."

Mother ! " cried Helena in alarm. She left
her chair, and kneeling by Mrs. Kilsyth's side
took her hand, and gently fondled and kissed
it. " You are not well this evening ; let me
take you to your room and stay with you till
you are asleep. Something has disturbed you.
Tell me what it is. Tell me, dear mother."

I have been  I am  a little unnerved."
said Mrs. Kilsyth slowly. " I shall be better
after a short time. No, I cannot go to bed
yet, T am in a fever. Don't mind me if I speak
a little oddly. Just let me go on in my own
way. I came in here to talk to you. It does
me good to look at your calm, sweet face.

Ah, my Helena," she went on with passionate
tenderness, " I have dreamed of it at nights
during the years we have been separated. J
have clung to the thought of your love as
to a saving influence. Is it to fail me
now s

Never, mother, never, never ! It has been
so. with me also. I have always felt that there
was a . kind of spiritual oneness between us,
though we have been far apart ; and when I
have been lonely or misunderstood, I have
turned in thought to you."

Why do you want to go away ? Have
you discovered so soon that I am unworthy
of your affection ? "

Oh, mother," said Helena, almost weeping,
"it is not that. But I am unhappy here.
There are reasons that I cannot explain  you
must not question me ; you must take my
word that they are strong, good reasons 
which make me wish to go back to England

for a time." . . . She faltered ; then, in answer
to a gesture from her mother, went on :
You must trust me. If I could confide
in you I would do so ; but it is impossible.
And why should I vex you with a trouble
which nothing can mend or make different ?
It has only to be lived down. Ah, mother,
I love you with my whole heart. I could be
contented to remain with you in any place 
except perhaps this one. It is vile. It is
hateful. The very air is corrupt ; it is killing
all that is best in you. Let us leave it, and
never return again. I will find you, another
home. We will live in England by and by ;
or, if you dislike it, in any other country you
please ; and you shall see how happy I will
make you."

You are very eloquent, Helena. Have you
been learning morality from the English society
papers ? It is the fashion just now to thunder
forth denunciations of Monte Carlo : no man

is honest here ; no woman is virtuous. Are
all your men at home without reproach ; all
your women stainless ; are there no plague-spots
in the great world of London ? Oh, my
love, don't be deceived by cant. The English
are a nation of whitewashed hypocrites, dry
bones, mummies, and animated waxwork. I
hate them. At least we southerners live and
feel. . . . Well ! " she added in a different
tone, " as I said before, let us admit that
wickedness abounds in this beautiful little
principality. There's sin in all places  more or
less ; only in some it is dull and dank as
ditch-water ; in others, sparkling as champagne.
I prefer champagne to ditch-water. Why,
good heavens, child ! if it had not been for
roulette I should have gone mad long ago."

"Oh, if you would but see  if you could
but realise that this life is degrading to you ! "
cried Helena. "If it were for money ! That
would be horrible enough ; but for the mere

love of excitement I think, after all,

that is more terrible still. Mother, mother ! "
Helena clenched her hands in her eagerness
till the nails hurt her flesh, and bending
forward gazed with intensity of appeal into
Mrs. Kilsyth's face, from which the fire had
died out, and which was now haggard, moody,
and wretched. " Is there anything  anything
in the world I can do to make you give up
gambling ? "

Mrs. Kilsyth was deeply moved. The tears
rolled down her cheeks. In an access of
maternal tenderness she pressed her daughter's
head against her bosom, and stroked the
silky hair.

Poor child ! " she murmured ; " poor darling !
my baby ! whom I have always loved so
dearly."

Thus they remained for some minutes, neither
uttering any further word ; only faint cooing
and inarticulate murmurs of endearment falling

from the lips of each. . . . Can there be a wall
of misconception, or sea of guilt so high or
so deep, as to divide absolutely the hearts
of mother and child ?

Folded in this clinging embrace, the sweet,
broken sounds dropping balm-like upon her
soul, Helena was for the moment almost happy.
This was in part the realisation of her girlish
dreams. This was the divine mother-love
which she had fancied would satisfy alike her
religious and human cravings.

They were both weeping, mingling their
tears together; yet neither spoke, or asked
any explanation of the cause of sorrow. Then
followed a long silence, in which only the
hissing of the fire and ticking of the clock
were heard. At last Mrs. Kilsyth half rose
and put her daughter from her. She was
quite calm now.

c; Helena," she said, " you ask me if there
is anything you can do which will induce me

to give up gambling. Sometimes, when one
is on the very edge of the precipice, there
remains still the courage to draw back and
give oneself up to be chained and bound
against one's own mad desire. I give you
leave to bind the evil spirit in me  upon one
condition. It will rend me, perhaps to death,
but you will be satisfied."

The condition ! " cried Helena.

That you become Cazalette's wife. No,
hear me," as Helena started to her feet with
a violent gesture of refusal. " My peace, my
safety, my whole future life depend upon
your decision. You may make or mar me
for ever."

"Mother!" exclaimed Helena, standing with
dilated eyes, and countenance white with
anxiety, before the miserable woman who sat
gazing fixedly into vacancy, with hands
twitching nervously, and one foot spasmodically
beating the floor, as though tension of

mind made bodily movement of some sort a
necessity. "Tell me the meaning of all this.
Who is Colonel Cazalette that he looks upon
us as slaves to be disposed of in the way he
thinks fit ? What is his power over you that
you talk in this wild way of the consequences
of thwarting him % "

"Why will you not marry him?" asked
Mrs. Kilsyth, evading the question by one of
those abrupt transitions from melodramatic to
querulous utterance, which was a peculiarity
of her manner. "He is handsome, cultivated,
agreeable ; he is of the same religion.

Cardinal is his friend. He has influence,

prestige, everything which one could desire
in a husband. You have always appeared to
take pleasure in his society. This morning 
I watched your face ; it brightened whenever
he spoke to you."

"Oh, mother!" said Helena, "that was
quite different. Surely you who have been

married, and have loved, can understand the
the horror  the repulsion. To-day, till he
spoke to me at Koquebrune, I felt towards
him as a girl might well feel towards one
whom she fancied older, wiser, better than
herself  as to a friend  almost a priest, if it
were not sacrilegious to make the comparison.
But in a moment all was changed 
and now I  I hate him ; but I do not fear
him."

You are wrong, Helena. He is all that you
described just now  a good man on the Jesuitical
model. He has been my friend for eleven years,
and during that time I have never seen him
otherwise than charitable, gentle, and humane.
If I have been a little afraid of him, it is not
because he has ever offered me a discourteous
word ; but because he has made me feel that
his will is inflexible, and that he would consider
any means justifiable in order to attain an end
which he believed to be righteous. But that

end gained, he would be all tenderness. I know
that he would make the happiness of his wife
his dearest study. . . . Good God ! If I were
not sure of this I would die before I urged you
to accept him. Helena, my darling, I implore
you  on my knees I pray you to be guided
by him and me."

She sank upon the ground at her daughter's
feet. Helena raised her, and hung upon her,
trying to caress and soothe her, all the while
redoubling; her entreaties to be told the meaning
of this extraordinary agitation.

For Yaruna's sake," pleaded Mrs. Kilsyth.
If you but knew  doubly for her sake. Her
youth has been so blighted ; her hopes all cast

to the ground Would you have her live

on here to become like me, or worse ? And has
she not already sacrificed herself for you ? Has
she not sent George Warrender away from Jin-.
because she would not purchase happiness at the
cost of your pain ? Ah, Helena, is it not a

VOL. II. N

light thing to trample down a love unreturned,
compared to the giving up of one all your own ? "

The poor girl winced as though a knife had
pierced her flesh.

"Have pity on me. This is more than
I can bear. There is no use in saying
another word. Every argument has been
put before me, and I have withstood all.
Mother, you break my heart, but I have
only one answer to give you. It would be a
sin to marry the man I do not love ; and I
will not commit it."

A sin ! " repeated Mrs. Kilsyth wildly.
But if I were to show you that it is a duty !
and love counts for so little when one is
young. You are romantic, exalted. Your judgment
is distorted. It is nothing to conquer a
girlish fancy  a needle-thrust, a short ache,
and then forgetfulness. I do not speak from
ignorance. I have gone through it all. Ah,
Helena, the sacrifice I ask from you is not

so terrible. Think of others  remember St.
Marina, St. Rose, St. Lucy ! "

You have learned your lesson well, mother,"
rejoined Helena, with an hysterical laugh.
These examples have been already pointed out
to me. I see no similarity between their cases
and my own. . . . Dear mother, your judgment
is distorted. You are excited and agitated tonight.
To-morrow the position will seem to
you very different. You will see that your
reasoning is strained and false, that this sacrifice
is not necessary for your own or for Aaruna's
happiness, but merely to satisfy the fancy of a
man who is nothing to us. Let us break from
him and defy him. If you are weak, / am
not afraid of shadows."

Mrs. Kilsyth rose and faced her daughter.
"Helena," she said, " these are not shadows,
but terrible realities. When I said that my
safety and peace depended upon you, I told you
only the bald truth. I am a desperate woman.

N 2

It is impossible for me to break with this man 
impossible for me to defy him. I am utterly
in his power."

In what way ? " asked Helena firmly, her
slight form held erect, with an air of unconscious
command. " Mother, you must tell
me everything."

"There are secrets which it is better you
should not know. Will you not accept my
assurance ? Is it not earnest enough ? Lookin
my face. Do you doubt that I am in deep
trouble  almost in despair ?

"I do not doubt you. I see that you are
most miserable. Mother, I yearn to help you,
but I must know the whole truth."

Mrs. Kilsyth hesitated. Her eyes moved
fearfully round the room, then were lowered.
She began again to beat her foot upon the floor.
Leaning one arm upon the mantelshelf, she
rested her forehead upon it, and gazed downward
into the fire.

"In what way are you in his power?"
repeated Helena.

"I owe him money."

Money ! " echoed the girl in accents of
intense relief. " Is that all ? "

It is a large sum  an immense sum, borrowed
at different times through him  for which he
holds securities that will be cancelled upon
the day he marries you."

And you would give me to a Jew, a usurer ! "
exclaimed Helena with reproachful scorn.
Make your mind easy, mother. I shall be
rich enough in a few years to pay all your
debts  till then, the matter can be easily
arranged. Come, don't look wretched anymore.
Lie down to sleep with a heart at rest.
Dearest mother, to think that we should have
been made so unhappy for this ! Was I not
right in saying that you exaggerated the position
? If all clouds could be scattered as
easily as this one ! "

She approached Mrs. Kilsyth with joy-lit face,
and would have embraced her with playful
rebuking, but the latter waved her back.

Helena, you do not know all. There is
more to tell."

Say on. I am not afraid now."

He has letters of mine  letters which would
compromise me fatally."

The girl looked at her mother with wide-open
uncomprehending eyes.

Well  they can be bought."

There is more  something far worse. He
has  secrets  a secret  a confession  which not
many weeks ago he forced from me."

It can be bought," said Helena again.

No, it cannot be bought. I have told you
that he is inflexible, He threatens to expose
me. There is but one condition upon which
he will keep silence. . . . And this  this is no
ordinary secret. It involves shame  disgrace "

What is it ? "

Silence.

"Mother, answer me; I must know!"

Again Helena repeated her entreaty.

Still hiding her face, Mrs. Kilsyth spoke :
It is  the secret of a crime''

A crime ! What crime ? Oh my Godmother,
don't keep me any longer in
suspense ! "

Helena clutched her mother's arm, and forced
the panic-stricken face upward. But in a
second it was hidden, there came a whisper,
wrung, as it were, from a soul in the direst
anguish :

Emmanuel Fanoo was poisoned. It was I
who killed him"

Then the wretched woman again sank downward,
grovelling at her daughter's feet.

HELENA YIELDS.

Helena's pallor intensified to the hue of
death. Her lips worked in ghastly fashion,
but brought forth no sound. Her features
were sharpened into mocking semblance of the
sweet girlish contours of her face. Horror had
paralysed sensation, and for a moment she
seemed turned to stone.

But love conquered repulsion. She kneeled
and raised the form which appeared to have
become suddenly old and withered. She folded
her arms around it, and pressed it to her young-bosom.
Her eyes shone with heavenly
tenderness.

Mother," she whispered, " tell . me everything.
Say out all that is in your heart.
It must be best, it must be a comfort to you.
Oh, my poor mother ! Don't shrink from me.
See, I am holding you close  I will never let
you go. I'm not a judge  I am your child,
your own. I will never forsake you, never
turn against you. It does not make any
difference what you have done. The very
worst crime could not change me. . . . Oh,
mother, think of our Blessed Lady. Think
of the pity and love of God  and should /
be harsh ? Should I be cold ? . . . You
have confessed, mother ; you have received
absolution."

No," murmured the poor woman, " I have
never told God ; I have never confessed to a
priest. My secret has been hidden from all
in the world but Cazalette."

Think, mother," continued Helena, her voice
like that of au angel comforting  "think of

giving up your burden to God. Think of the
joy of penitence and absolution. Think of the
new life unweighted by the guilt and misery
of the past."

I  I am not penitent, Helena. For a longtime
I was glad ; it was only at night that I
trembled, when the lost spirits came round my
bed, and gibed and pointed, and said  so low
that they never woke Sophie, whom I made
sleep in my room  but so that only I could hear :
You are one of us, you are a murderess.' '

It was strength not human which repressed
the shuddering recoil, and drew Helena's arms
tighter round the poor sinner who made her
broken confession.

But there was morphine. . . . And when
my brain grew clear, I knew that they were
not accusers from heaven, but cursed, lying
fiends. Power came to me, and I answered :
Did Jael murder when she slew Sisera, or
Jehu the avenger of Naboth ? Is it not written,

"An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth " ? '
Did not God implant the instinct of the lioness,
who will turn and rend the slayer of her whelps ?
And what was I ? A mother forced to look on ?
powerless, while her child, her best beloved, was
humiliated, outraged, tortured. . ."

Oh mother," whispered Helena, her heart
bleeding with pity. "It was hard, it was
bitter."

My Varuna ! " Mrs. Kilsyth went on in
tremulous accents. " My beautiful darling, at
whose feet princes have sued, bleeding inwardly
but too proud to complain. I knew her spirit ;
it would break but never bend. . The
child came  fruit of misery and pain  and I
said, ' Is it meet that these things should
be, and that the innocent should suffer for
the guilty'"

While she spoke, a change of mood had crept
over Mrs. Kilsyth. As in mental sequence,
memory reproduced the feelings and impulses

which had swayed her in former time, remorse
and shame died. She was no longer the
criminal, abject and fear-stricken ; but the
wounded mother at bay facing her enemies in
defence of her offspring. No need now for
any goad to confession. She withdrew herself
from her daughter's embrace, rose, and with
head erect made several strides to and fro in
the chamber, then returned, and again seated
herself. Helena was watching her with anxiety
so intense that to breathe seemed pain. There
was a long pause. Mrs. Kilsyth's gaze was
fixed in vacancy. It was wild and terrible, as
though she saw backward through vistas of
sorrow. A sound, half sob, half gasp, escaping
from Helena, recalled her to the present. She
said harshly, abruptly :

When Cazalette found the cyanide of potassium
missing, I believe that he knew for what
purpose it had been taken. I believe that he
gave me the key of his cabinet because he

knew that I meant to poison Fanoo, and he
wished to marry Varuna. I did not know it
then, but I believe it now."

"Mother !" Helena almost shrieked.

Why not ? If she had loved him, the end
would have been good. To release her was
a righteous act. . . . And it was so simple."

There are crises in life when the soul roves
as it were, rudderless in space, and the foundations
of honour, faith  nay, even of existence
seem sapped. Such an experience was now
Helena's portion. She had no strength to
reason  scarcely strength to feel. For the
moment her mind hardly revolted from this
daring perversion of morality. It appeared
almost natural  just  that Fanoo's murder should
have been thus deliberately planned and executed.
Her dazed intelligence was incapable
of grasping details, and yet, with a sort of
sickening curiosity, she waited for her mother
to continue.

Memory worked fitfully, at first evoking
only fragmentary images. Mrs. Kilsyth's voice
dropped almost to a whisper ; and Helena was
forced to bend forward in order to catch the
muffled sounds. Then she observed that her
mother started at intervals, and every now and
then glanced uneasily round, as though there
were in the room a third listener of whom she
was afraid ; and whom at times she appeared
to be addressing.

Such a wild night ! The stars hidden by
driving clouds  a moon, all watery, gleaming
through the rifts like a sorrowful accusing eye ;
the mistral moaning down the hills, and through
the fir-trees ; the surf beating against the sea-wall.
. . . There was a window open. A datura
shrub, growing near, threw its dark shadow upon
the pane ; its great waxen bells like faces leering
in . . Oh, how I loathe the sickly scent ! . . . .

She was asleep. She lay in the next room,
her baby by her side. One beautiful arm was

bared ; it was all red and swollen. Upon her
marble shoulder there was a great black bruise.
Then a voice rose up within me, crying :
1 No mercy  none, none ! ' and I turned, as
Jael turned at the door of the tent when she
went softly unto Sisera."

Convulsively the poor woman grasped
Helena's hand, and cowered, shivering. It
was as if she were again undergoing the
sensations of that terrible night, of which the
recollection was burned into her brain. The
young girl could only mutely caress. Words
were impossible. Mrs. Kilsyth proceeded :

"You don't know what it is to have nerves
unhinged. It bean when I first came here
that trouble of my mind. I did not
believe in anything. I had no God, no
religion. I was wild with grief and anger
at being torn from my little one. It was
then I first began to be afraid  afraid of
something, some one outside myself, and yet

within me. It is not an uncommon experience ;
it does not in the least denote any disease of
mind. Socrates had his familiar. Mahomet
saw visions. Swedenborg conversed with spirits.
And they were not mad. But my familiar
never brought me glad thoughts  always
grotesque, weird fancies. Did you ever look
through a microscope at a drop of water ?
That's how the world appeared to me  grinning
monsters chasing their weaker brethren 
furious monsters writhing in anger  dignified
monsters moving in a circle * towards an
imaginary goal  sanctimonious monsters making
obeisance and inflexions to nothing, 

o o o

nothing but water. . . . And oh, the ghastly
solemnity of it ! The unspeakable idiocy of
it ! And to think that a knife-thrust, a few
drops of deadly liquid, a pair of strangling
hands would for each turn the human farce
into blankness for ever. . . ."

Again a shuddering pause. Again the

quavering voice rose swelling to loudness as
she went on : " Cazalettc drove away my
familiar for a time. He took me to church
and made me pray. The Aves and Paters
became something better than senseless mockery.
Sometimes I confessed my horrible thoughts
to him  sometimes to a priest. . But Fanoo
turned me into a tiger again. When I
watched my darling quail at his approach,
and thus learned that he struck her in secret,
I could have sprung upon him  I could have
torn his flesh  I could have killed him  had
I been but a wild beast or a man, instead
of a woman. . . . Then the voice within me
began to whisper  softly at first, and, as I
listened, louder and louder, 'Craft and poison
are a woman's weapons. You may free her
if you choose.' . . . Cazalette was always
photographing. It was an excuse for being
about the house. Tell him to show you his
portfolio ; it is worth looking at. You will
vol. n. o

see Varuna in every attitude. He guarded
her as though he had been her brother. Fanoo
was afraid of him ; and many a time he stood
between her and violence. You will see that
scowling handsome brute Fanoo himself. You
will see me, with perhaps that other peering
over my shoulder, and pointing to the box
of chemicals. I can hear the voice whispering
the voice of my familiar, ' There lies your
weapon.' . . . One day Cazalette held up a
bottle of colourless liquid, and told me that
I had only need to be a photographer to possess
the means of ridding myself of all my
enemies. A few drops in a sleeping draught 
no trace left ; no troublesome questions asked 
no inquest held  the directors of the Tripoli
would take care of that. . . . That night I
heard Varuna shriek ; it was his death-knell.
But I was cunning, and waited. I knew that
Cazalette always locked up his chemicals. I
asked him for the key. He looked at me

strangely, and refused. ' I am afraid,' he
said, ' lest in one of your desperate moods
you might have an impulse to kill yourself

'Ah ! ' " (with a laugh and affected imitation
of unconcern, as though she were dramatically
rehearsing the scene) " ' why should I want
your poison ivhen I might at any time send,
myself into a dreamless sleep ivith an overdose
of morphine f '

' It hould take a great many overdose of
morphine,' he answered, ' to make a "person
habituated to opium sleep for ever.' "

She broke off, and for the first time since
she had begun her story her eyes met those
of Helena.

What was I saying ? " she asked in a baffled
way as if she w r ere mentally groping for some lost
clue. . . . "To sleep for ever ! No more
leaden hours, haunted by terrible spectres ! No
more wild tossing, or drug-purchased stupor. No
more throbs of longing and heaviness of dish

2

appointment ! No more aching misery intensified
by the memory of past joy ! All over ! The heart
at peace ! It is not so awful a doom, Helena ! "

Mother ! " exclaimed the poor girl, every
nerve vibrating with eagerness to reach the end
of this ghastly tale. " Try to recollect yourself.
You have more to tell me  the key ? "

He gave it to me  afterwards. He was
going away, and bade me take care of it till
his return. When he came back he received
it again, asking no questions. . . . One
bottle was missing ; but he asked no questions.
. It w r as all over  and I was
glad. She was free ! "

The note of exultation turned to a wail as
Mrs. Kilsyth sank back again in gloomy
silence. Helena covered her face with her hands
and remained for some moments motionless.
Whether she were weeping or silently praying
her mother could not tell.
I Upon this night too, the wind had risen and

swept the house in long sighing gusts. A clock
without pealed eleven strokes. Borne upon
the breeze, there floated up from the railway
station the whistle of a departing train.

At last Mrs. Kilsyth spoke in accents of
the deepest sadness :

Helena, this is not what you expected.
You came seeking a guardian angel, and you
have found a fiend."

I have found what I sought," answered
Helena very low. " I have found my mother."
Her face was set in despairing resolution ; yet
there beamed from it love and pity more
divine than human. During these moments
of silent self-communion she had consecrated
her life to her mother's need. In a few short
hours she had sped from innocent girlhood to
regions of tragic guilt, whence the sweet
possibilities of womanhood were banished forever.
Martyrdom must be her portion. It
should be accepted without a groan.

Fervid exaltation bore her up as upon
wings. Again the two hearts were beating
together, and the mother's head was bowed
upon her child's bosom. " Helena," she
whispered, pleading piteously, " I am in his
power. He has threatened me. He will publish
my secret to the world. He will make it
known to Varuna. For the world I care
little. Disgrace, even punishment, would be
lesser woes  but Yaruna ! She would never
look in my face again. She would hate me
and curse me. The freedom which has been
so dearly purchased would be worse than
valueless. She would go mad with shame and
horror. Her life would be blasted for ever.
And now  now when there is a promise of
better things ! . . Oh my God ! it would
kill us both. Helena, my child, my darling !
Have pity upon your sister, have pity
upon the man you love. Save her, save me!"
"Mother, I will."

Helena  you will not forsake me \ "

Think ! " said Helena. " If you were
struggling in deep waters and clinging to me
for dear hope of life ! Could I forsake you
then ? Oh mother, do not fear ! You have
sinned for love of your children. Should they
be less pitiful than God ? I will protect you.
The Church shall absolve you. If your future
must be sad, my devoted care shall lighten
your sorrow. Your life shall at least be pure
and peaceful."

You yield, Helena  you consent ? "

I yield. See. It shall be done
to-night."

She moved to the davenport, and wrote
rapidly for a few minutes ; then enclosed,
sealed, and directed the letter.

"It is done, mother. I have bidden Colonel
Cazalette come when he pleases to claim his
wife."

Hark I " exclaimed Mrs. Kilsyth, starting

from her seat. " What is that % Listen. . . .
Varuna has arrived."

They heard the crunch of wheels. The
bell pealed. Then followed the sound of
talking, and of steps in the hall and upon
the stairs. Madame Fanoo's voice at the door
inquired, " May I come in ? Are you still
awake ? " and she herself, dressed in deep
mourning, thin, pallid, and travel-worD, entered
the chamber.

She beheld her mother, trembling, agitated,
her cheeks tear-stained, her in coherent greeting
uttered falteringly. She saw Helena, white,
rigid, with head erect, eyes gleaming, lips
drawn tightly ; the sealed letter in her hand.
Lightning-like there rushed into Yaruna's mind
the conviction that some momentous decision
had just been arrived at  some fearful crisis
passed through.

She looked in a bewildered manner from
one to the other, but did not speak.

"Varuna," said Mrs. Kilsyth, "you have
come suddenly  without warning. . . . And
this," touching the black dress, "what does it
mean ? The child ? "

My child is dead ! " replied Madame Fanoo,
with forced composure.

In an impulse of sympathy, Helena
moved with outstretched arms towards her
sister, but Varuna waved her back. "Don't
pity me. I  I can't bear it." Her voice
broke. " I am deeply thankful. This is
best. God has taken the maimed life to Himself.
He has answered my prayers. The
past may be buried now. It is the present
which is of importance  the present and the
future. Something has happened. What is
it ? Mother  Helena ! To whom is that
letter addressed ? "

Neither replied. Varuna waited, determination
to learn the truth imprinted upon every line
of her countenance. The silence was fateful.

Helena broke it. "This letter is to Colonel
Gazette. He lias asked me to be his wife
an d I "

Helena ! " passionately implored Mrs.
Kilsyth, "not now  oh, not to-night!"

Yes, to-night," said Helena, her clear
tones ringing through the room. " My sister
must know at once  for her own sake
as well as for mine. He has asked me
to be his wife, and in this letter I have
consented."

Oh, this is too much ! " cried Yaruna.
This is too great a sacrifice. Are you both
mad? Mother, have all my injunctions then
been disregarded ? Did I not warn you before
I went away ? Is this how you take care of
your child ? But I have come in time. The
letter shall not be sent."

It must go to-night," said Helena, " I
act of my own free will. I have chosen the
fate which will bring me most happiness. . . .

You have been mistaken. I have mistaken
myself. I have changed. . I am going to
marry Colonel Cazalette, and nothing"  the
words rang flute-like  " nothing can alter my
determination."

WITHIN Twenty-four Hours."

The messenger who bore Helena's missive to
Cazalette was followed by one from Madame
Fanoo, imperiously summoning him to her
presence upon the following morning.

He prepared to obey her command. As he
crossed the great square of the Casino on
his way to Villa Kilsyth he saw George
Warrender approaching from the direction of
the railway station.

"The threads are becoming well knotted,"

he murmured. " We ouo;ht to be nearing* the

 

denouement He diverged to meet the Englishman,
and accosted him with effusion.

This is a delightful surprise. We were
afraid that you intended to desert Monte Carlo.
You have just returned from San Eemo ? "

"A few moments ago. You can tell me
whether there is a likelihood of my finding
accommodation at the Hotel des Anges."

Oh, undoubtedly. As Lent goes on the
rush lessens, though during the last clay or
two there has been an influx of loyal
pleasure-seekers, who have followed the Prince
of ."

He is here, then ? "

Yes ; and in his wake two of the greatest
statesmen in Europe. Who knows that t rente
et quarante may not make history ! Imagine
the display of beauty and diamonds in the
Casino this evening ! You will be there with
the rest of our friends ? Madame Fanoo returned
last night."

I fear that she is in trouble ; she has lost
her child."

Cazalette ; s eyebrows went up after a way
he had.

Is that a great calamity ? I am now on
my way to the Villa Kilsyth. Ah, Mr. War-render,
I have known Madame Fanoo longer
than you, and I prophecy that the bank will
be so much the richer or poorer for her play
this evening."

They parted.

Cazalette was ushered into Madame Fano'a
boudoir. She said a few words in Italian to
the servant by whom he was announced. The
door was closed behind him. She was alone.
It was evident that preparations had been made
for a private interview. Sheathed in black,
stately and severe, she might have represented
the muse of Tragedy. Her greeting was of
the slightest. Apparently she intended to
waste no words in idle courtesy.

I am sorry to see you looking so ill," he
began. " I am afraid that you have had an

unhappy time at Milan. It is not necessary
to assure you that you have my deepest
sympathy."

With a gesture she waived his condolences.
Quite unnecessary," she answered. " Such
words between us are very meaningless. I have
sent for you as an enemy, not as a friend. You
have fought unfairly, and have taken advantage
of my absence. You have coerced my mother ;
and have induced my sister, by what means T
know not, to consent to become your wife."

He bowed. " You put the position very
plainly, Madame Fanoo. These are the facts of
the case."

Colonel Cazalette, you must release my
sister."

"Why?"

There is no need to bring forward reasons.
You know them sufficiently well. The strongest
are that you do not love her ; and that such
a marriage would be utterly unsuitable."

Madame Fanoo, you make broad statements,
one of which it would be difficult even for you
to verify ; and the other is at least open to
argument. Without vanity, I think I can
maintain that there would be no unsuitability
in my marriage with Miss Kilsyth."

It shall never be," said Yaruna impetuously ;
I will prevent it."

How ? " coldly asked Cazalette. " Surely we
need not fence. I made my intentions clear to
you some weeks ago. Fortune has favoured me,
and my hopes have been realised even sooner
than I anticipated. Madame Fanoo, I am master
of the situation  at present. You did not send
for me this morning before trying other expedients.
You have already appealed to your
mother and sister  in vain."

Yaruna remained silent for a minute, her eyes
fixed keenly upon him, as though she would give
worlds for the power of probing his thoughts.
She hazarded a thrust.

Your influence pitted against mine must
certainly fall to the ground."

No. I will be frank with you. Your
weapons may be powerful, but I possess one
against which they are absolutely without avail.
I have a hold over your mother and sister of
which you know nothing."

You can shamelessly admit this ? "
I see no cause for shame. Let us grant that
I have an important object to gain ; a means for
accomplishing my end has been placed in my
power. Would it not be the height of folly
to refrain from making use of this ? "

Are you sure that I am ignorant of the
secret of your influence 1 " said Varuna. " My
mother has confessed to me that she owes
you a large sum of money. Well, it shall be
paid. We can then defy you."

Suppose that I were to give you twenty-four
hours in which to raise the money.
Could you do it unaided ? You are too

VOL. II. P

proud to seek help from a man who loves
you."

In these days women are not imprisoned
for debts of honour," answered Yaruna contemptuously.


Madame Fanoo," said Cazalette, " my secret
has . no concern with money. The debt is
a separate affair. It would not be for your
happiness, and it would defeat my purpose,
were I to reveal the secret to you. I don't
intend to do so, but you must be aware that
it is all-compelling. You cannot defy me."

There was a pause. Yaruna moved to the
window. She threw it open as though fresh
air were a necessity, and stood with moveless
eyes fixed on the sunlit garden. The scent
of roses and orange blossoms floated in from
without. There was a gentle sighing of wind
among the pine and olive branches. Every
blade of grass appeared astir. A great palm
frond close by seemed to sway in rhythm with

the wild pulsations of her heart. So intense
was the concentration of her mind that she
received mechanically the impression of every
minute object in the scene, noting points
hitherto unobserved, while to her inward eye
the earth was blankness.

Suddenly she started violently, and raised
her hand to her forehead, uttering a faint cry ;
one of those fleeting sensations, or rather
intuitions, experienced by certain finely-strung
temperaments, seized her being, filling it with
sickening dread. Sun and sky, scents and
flowers became in a second appallingly vivid,
real, and beautiful. As it were, in the flash
of light which precedes dissolution, her straining
senses recognised the goodness and glory
of the world. Her soul seemed to yearn
impotently for life  for happiness  as it floated
forth upon the measureless sea of the unknown.
. . . What did this mean ? Was it a
prevision of death  of some dire impending

P 2

fate ? A frenzied calm held her bound. Scroll-like
the Venetian sibyl's prediction unfolded
itself in air. This was the fateful year. She
was powerless. . . . And yonder, where the
dome of the Casino stood forth against the
blue, whirled the wheel of chance which should
decide her destiny.

Alarmed by her cry, and the strange rapt
expression in her eyes, Cazalette approached
her side. He gazed at her in beseeching anxiety.
He was no longer composed. His face was
ashen, and his lips quivered. She saw that,
struggle though he might, her beauty still
held him in thrall, and that the flood of his
passion was only restrained by force of will.
She recovered herself by an effort, a train
of new suggestions set in motion. Her look
of cold defiance changed to one more daemons,
if also more womanly. She answered his
frightened inquiry.

"It is nothing  only a thought, Colonel

Cazalette, what if I acknowledge myself the
weaker ? My sister's freedom cannot, it seems,
be purchased by money. Name your terms."

They are simple. Varuna, you tempt me
too far. Do you know that you are dealing
with a man mad for love of you ? To win you
for my own I would sell my soul. What do
you suppose has been my strongest motive in
wishing to marry your sister ? It was not
her money, her beauty, or her position, which
tempted me. But I reason thus. As her
husband, I shall have gained the right to be
near you. We shall meet upon the common
ground of kinship. I shall see your face, touch
your hand, hear your voice. Though such
intercourse must be maddening, it would still
be bliss compared to the life of torture which
I lead apart from you. The heart hunger which
I feel, can never be appeased but by possession.
If food be denied me I must snatch at husks.
Who can tell that your second marriage may not

bring you misery ; and if so, I shall be at your
side to shield you with a devotion which can
never tire or fade. . . . But now in the
presence of a great possibility, - all these unsatisfying
dreams melt away. I love you. I love
you. For ten years you have been my life 
my world. Better the bitter-sweetness of death
with my arms around you, my lips pressed to
yours, than the most prosperous existence spent
with another. You ask me my terms They are
yourself."

You will yield upon no other conditions ? "

Upon none."

She turned away. She had reached the
door ; and with the faintest inclination of her
head was bidding him farewell.

Stay," he cried passionately. " I am weary
of this struggle ; it is wearing out body and
spirit. I give you one alternative. Pay me
your mother's debt within twenty-four hours,
and I will leave you for ever."

I accept your terms," she replied, and
passed from the room.

*****

The Casino was thronged that evening.

Men and women of every nationality in
Europe jostled each other in the vestibule.
The great stands of flowers were seen dimly
through the clouds of smoke which weighted
the atmosphere. There was frou-frou of silk
and ripple of laughter. Diamonds gleamed,
vying with the artificially brightened eyes of
their wearers. As the dividing doors swung
noiselessly to and fro, the chink of money, the
whirling of the ball and the automatic calls of
the croupiers, sounded from the salle de jeu ;
while from the other side, through the veiled
entrance to the theatre, floated faint strains
of music, now rising fitfully in fantastic
merriment ; now trolling solemn and doomful ;
now closing some weird cadence by a groaning
discord ; now dying in a Satanic wail.

The orchestra was performing La Danse
Macabre.

As upon a former occasion, the wild, grotesque
harmonies thrilled through Warrender's being,
arousing a variety of abnormal sensations,
predominant among which, were the feelings of
spiritual alertness and vague terror of something
unseen and unknown.

He had seated himself upon a settee in the
vestibule, and was abstractedly following with
his eyes the movements and combinations of
the human kaleidoscope before him. Every
now and then his gaze turned with wistful
eagerness towards the entrance door. She
whom he sought had not yet made her appearance.
Alas ! the region of beauty might have
been desert, and the men and women shadows.
He was living in a dream which one presence
alone could invest with reality. Time and
absence had done nothing towards impairing
the strength of Varuna's magnetic influence ;

it was even more potent than when he had
bidden her farewell in the Gardens of Monaco.
He grew hot and cold by turns ; his pulses
throbbed with wild longing. Would she come ?
Would her face be sad or smiling  coldly
inscrutable, or sweetly inviting ? Would she
welcome or repulse him ?

He waited on. She was late. The concert
was almost over. A figure which he recognised
as that of Cazalette glided past him into the
theatre. The incident called forth in him a
listless regard for his surroundings.

Preoccupied though he was, the scene was
far from being barren of interest to his
mind.

Here, conspicuous among the crowd of adventurers,
demi-mondaines and respectable if idle
seekers after pleasure, were many well-known
figures and faces of graver type, more pronounced
style, or severer beauty  those of
Fashion's votaries, or political schemers, followers

in the wake of certain European potentates
whom the fascinations of the Tripot had lured
hither to-night. There, in one of the diverse
groups which flitted by, might be seen some
unfamiliar countenance, awakening sinister
suggestions of mystery and intrigue \ and there
again, conversing earnestly with a crafty-looking
Pole or swarthy Italian, the typical
feminine conspirator of snake-like physiognomy
and engaging smile, one of those fascinating
and dangerous adventuresses who are of equal
importance in fiction and in real life.

In this diversified assemblage, did the
spectator but possess the power of diving
below the surface of frivolity, might be found
the materials for many an exciting drama.
Was it the effect of Warrender's excited
imagination, or did he indeed discern upon the
faces of several of those who passed, a look of
suppressed anxiety and veiled expectancy ?

Suddenly the blood seemed to forsake his

heart ; and all sights and sounds were merged
in one supreme consciousness. A group of
four persons was approaching from the entrance
door. It consisted of Mrs. Kilsyth, Lord
Bretland, Madame Fanoo, and her sister.

Unexpected as was the sight of Helena ina
place which till now she had sedulously
avoided, Warrender was still more shocked by
the change which had been wrought in her
appearance. Pale as a ghost, with dilated eyes
fixed in wonder and repulsion upon the gaudy
scene which for the first time presented itself
to her regard, he fancied that she resembled
a disembodied spirit rather than a living
woman, breathing the corrupt air of this
magnificent Pandemonium.

But a moment later his disquietude was
swallowed up by the fiercer anxiety which filled
his soul when his gaze became fastened upon
Varuna. She had paused before the cloak-room
to divest herself of the lone ruby-coloured

mantle she wore, and was waiting till the way
should have become clearer for Lord Bretland
to deposit it with the custodian. Her face
was turned towards him though she saw him
not. All the old indifference and disdain had
vanished. Worn, rigid, tragic in its intensity,
it was indeed that of a victim driven by
fate.

What Medusa-like horror had transformed
her thus ? Why the look of stony resolve upon
her set lips ? Whence the concentrated passion
in her despairing eyes ?

He had scarcely asked himself these questions
when Madame Fanoo's name, uttered in a low
voice by some one at his elbow, attracted his
attention.

The speaker was Princess Titchakoff, that
semi-English celebrated beauty and still noted
intricate, in the pretty salon of whose villa
at Villefranche dark secrets were discussed 
whence also, it was whispered, was to go

forth the signal which should determine the
overthrow of a dynasty.

Is Madame Fanoo rehearsing the part of
Judith ? That little portemonnaie which she
holds clenched in her hand should be a dagger
at the least. There is tragedy enough in her
face to mark her as one of us to-night."

Princess ! " murmured her companion, who
was no other than Cazalette. " Be prudent.
There are many ears open here." He spoke
the modern Greek, a language with which
Warrender was acquainted.

Prudent ! " echoed the princess in the same
tongue. "I was never that. Even in the old,
old days when life seemed worth living, it
required a vast excitement to speed the flabby
current of my blood. Prudent ! " she repeated
with an accent of bitter sadness. "It is
only when we women are terrified by the bogie
loss of reputation that we can nerve ourselves
by an almost superhuman effort to hold the

door closed between our secrets and the world.
My pulse is perfectly calm this evening. It
beats more regularly, I dare say, than your
own." She lightly touched his wrist. " Explain
this agitation ; I thought you were adamant.
Ah, I know these signs. They mean, not
intrigue, but love."

My fate, princess, will be decided to-night."
Then I read the riddle of Varuna's
countenance. Plot and passion combined,
monsieur ! That is a mistake. Emotion is a
luxury you should economise. Go and prosper.
See, Wrentzel is at hand  he will pilot me to
the roulette room. And now to lay siege to
my prince, who is so well shepherded by his
prime minister."

Princess Titchakoff laughed in those silvery
tones of which time could never impair the
sweetness. Withdrawing her arm from that
of Cazalette she fixed her eyes upon him
steadily for an instant, uttered in a meaning

manner the words, " Remember, the stroke of
eleven ; " then glided away and was lost in
the throng. Cazalette turned again towards
the concert-room.

DESTINY.

"Mr. Warrender."

He turned, in a dazed manner, to meet
Helena Kilsyth's sweet eyes, less unearthly,
but hardly less piteous than they had appeared
to him upon her entrance. Her pure beauty
and Madonna-like dignity struck him anew 
more forcibly from the contrast it presented
to the bedizened figures, the painted cheeks,
and bistre-shaded eyes of the women passing
by, the touch of whose garments seemed contamination.
He longed to take her in his arms
and bear her away, as he might have borne a
child from a den of thieves and murderers. A

horrible fear smote him that perhaps upon her,
too, the family curse had fallen.

"Helena," he exclaimed, "what are you
doing here ? "

He saw that she shuddered. Her eyes
drooped. To look at him would have been
self-betrayal.

Helena," he repeated. " You are suffering.
I see it in your face. Your dream is over.
You have awakened and are alone in black
night. You were happier in the old days.
Better go back to Hallingford. There, though
we were Protestants, though we were frivolous
and unsympathetic, we did not take you to
such places as this."

The old days ! " she murmured involuntarily.
There was in her tone such yearning
sadness, such deep regret, that he was startled
out of self-command. A new light breaking
upon him, he uttered her name again, in accents
of such sharp entreaty that they forced her to look

VOL. ii. q

upwards. That gaze told him the truth. She
loved him. She had always loved him. And
then, there floated before his mind's eye a
vision of what might have been  of what
might yet be.

Had he, like Varuna, become clairvoyant ; and
did he indeed see beyond the mists of doubt
and the horror of impending calamity, a future
bright and untroubled, with Helena the object
of his first, his lasting love, by his side.

A sharp pang of sorrow over the irrevocable
pierced his soul. The knell, " too late," rang
above the grave of once cherished hopes. He
said very gently, " Helena, let me take you
home."

"No," she answered. " I can bear it. This
is the first time. I hope it may be the last.
I came with my mother. Mr. Warrender, will
you take care of my sister to-night ? I don't
think she is quite well."

At that moment Mrs. Kilsyth advanced and

laid her hand upon her daughter's arm. She
too struck Warrender as looking unlike herself.
She scarcely noticed his greeting ; and did not
seem to realise the fact that he had been absent
from Monte Carlo.

Come, Helena," she said. " You mustn't leave
me. Varuna has gone into the roulette room.
If I'm to take my farewell of the devil to-night,
you must be at my side. Tis hard to break
the chains which Time has forged. Mr. War-render,
do you remember the day we first met
the day on which Yaruna made her lucky
coup on numero treize ? I remarked then the
extraordinary sympathy there was between the
tables. You haven't studied the theory of
coincidences' she went on in her most fitful
manner. " Guitar, the Spanish fatalist, said
to me as I came in this evening, ' The tables
are bewitched ; time after time, at each one,
Zero has come up  not one high number in
thirty coups. Something will happen to-night.

Q 2

Those were his very words. I have brought
my little all this evening  the last orgie before
fulfilling a vow of eternal abstinence  I shall

stake en plein on Zero " Her eyes wandered

vacantly around. " How strange the people
look ! or is it that the lights flicker ? It all
seems to me as unreal as a scene in a theatre
tragedy with an appropriate orchestral accompaniment.
I hear that the band has played the
Danse Macabre superbly. Another curious
combination ! a sign from the unseen powers !
Every time that piece has been performed here
it has meant  for me  doom. Well, well !
In Monaco life is not much better than a
dance of death. We shall end it soon."

Alarmed by her incoherent talk, Warren der
glanced appealingly towards Helena in the
vague hope that she might join her persuasions
to his and induce her mother to leave the
Casino. But she held her eyes averted and
made no sign. He offered his arm to Mrs.

Kilsyth and said, " Let me take you to the
roulette room."

They passed into the second sate, where the
crowd was most dense, and the play at its
height. Conspicuous, by reason of her carefully
preserved beauty, her beautiful hair
surmounted by the black lace drapery and
diamond stars which she usually wore, and by
something subtle and commanding in her air
which marked her out as a queen of men,
stood the Princess Titchakoff.

She was engaged in conversation with the
heir to a throne, at this time the most noteworthy
personage in Monte Carlo. Many
looks were turned upon the pair, some in
disapproval, others in sickening anxiety ; others
with mere vulgar curiosity. Could it be that
the fate of a dynasty rested upon the potency
of Nadine's fascinations? The Prince was
talking earnestly, Nadine smiled upon him
with a sort of scornful allurement. An

understanding of some kind had been arrived
at. They drew apart, Machine mingled with
the throng and the Prince turned to the
roulette table.

Still oppressed by the feeling of mystery
and of coming misfortune, Warrender quitted
Mrs. Kilsyth and her younger daughter, and
sought Varuna in the serried throng which
flocked round the different tables.

So closely packed was the space, that some
minutes elapsed before he discovered Madame
Fanoo, and even then it was impossible to
accost her.

Through a rift in the human mass her
profile became every now and then visible
to him, as she turned to address a handsome
young Austrian nobleman who was laying
down her stakes. She appeared to be playing
recklessly. Each time, gold and notes were
passed over the heads of those sitting, and
were swept away with merciless rapidity.

It was evident that fortune had no favour for
her that evening. He watched her with
sickening anxiety. The more frequently she
lost, the harder and more despairing grew
her expression. The Austrian became grave,
and at last seemed to be expostulating. She
smiled ironically and left the table.

It was at this moment that she found
herself confronting Warrender. The change
which passed over her features resembled the
sunset illumination of snow. It was as though
she beheld in him a possible saviour. He saw
by the start of surprise and look of wondering
joy that she must have been unaware of his
return to Monaco. Inwardly he blessed the
feeling of reluctance which had hindered him
from calling at Villa Kilsyth that afternoon.
His sudden appearance at this juncture had
called forth a confession more eloquent than
words. . . . There had been no cause for
doubt or dread. She was his own. He had

but to claim her, and should she put forth
her feeble protests, he would answer her by
challenging her with her love. Oh sweet
conflict, in which there was no sting of
uncertainty !

Their hands clasped, their eyes drank intoxicating
draughts of love. Neither spoke fora
moment. Lights seemed to pale, forms and
faces to vanish. They two were alone in a
universe of their own creating.

Suddenly, she shook herself, .as it were,
free of illusion. Again her eyes gleamed
wildly, and her look was full of terror and
perplexity.

Oh that I had waited," she said in deep
sadness. " Why did you not come to me
sooner 1 ? . . . Now I have lost so much."

Are you in trouble ? Tell me what has
happened. What can I do 1 Come with me
to the terrace, let us talk there. Ah ! I have
so much to say to you."

"And I to you. But not yet. There is
something else to be clone first."

Suddenly she glanced athwart the table, and
a shiver shook her frame.

You are ill," he said with anxious solicitude.
" Let us come away."

No, but yonder watching us are the evil
eyes of Colonel Cazalette and Princess Titcha-
off. Let us move a little aside  so  you
know how superstitious I am ! Do you remember
what I said to you upon the last
evening of the old year \ The lines of my
palm foretold the truth. This will have been
the most critical year of my life, for in it I
shall have known you. . . . You are still
waiting for your answer. I will give it you
in an hour's time."

I have already read it," triumphantly replied
Warrender, " in your face."

If that is so," she answered sadly, " be
happy for a little while. You have not

changed ? You love me  wholly, faithfully?"


You know that I love you with my whole
heart and soul."

They call me the Vampire of Monte Carlo.
They say that while men win gold for me, I
draw from them their hearts' blood ; and that
fortune favours only those who love me blindly
with passion. I have a weird superstition
that love, life, destiny  for me  are all in
some mysterious way connected with the whirling
of that ivory ball. Rien ne va plus will
be the knell of my fate. . . . Since you left
Monte Carlo, I have lost, lost, lost. After
to-night I will never play again. To-day I
drew out every franc that I possess in the
world  the gains of years pitifully lessened
during the last weeks. I have been staking
high ever since I came into the room, and
have never once won. In less than half
an hour my capital has dwindled almost to

nothing. Take what remains and stake it boldly.
I have need of a large sum which must be won
to-night. No, don't say what is on your lips.
I would die rather than take money from you
die ! Oh, worse ! far worse ! But you can
help me  in one way only. A few moments
ago I was in despair ; then I saw you, and
you seemed to me the saving angel sent at
the eleventh hour to my aid. Don't ask meany
questions. Think me crazed if you choose,
but humour my whim. Here is all that I
have. Play en plein  each time upon a single
number  just as the inspiration dictates  each
round, the maximum. Don't speak to me or
look at me. Go ! The centre table. Do you
not recollect treizef It was an omen."

She emptied her purse ; placed in his
hand a small heap of gold and notes ; silenced
by a passionate gesture his half-uttered protest,
and resolutely turned away.

Statue - like, with marble hands tightly

clenched, and lips bloodless as stone, she stood
waiting. The murmur of voices seemed to
deepen, and echoed like a roaring sea in her
ears. She heard nothing else. It drowned
the croupier's calls, the whirring of the wheel,
the rattle of the gold, as the rakes swept the
cloth.

She did not hear Cazalette speak. She only
knew that he was beside her.

Minutes ! Hours ! Years !

The strain had become unendurable. She
moved back again to the table. As if by
consent the crowd parted at her approach.
She stood behind Warrender. Had he won or
lost ? She would not bend an inch to the
right or to the left, so that she might see his
face. But  oh, if only her heart would be
still ! If only the piston-throbbing would
cease !

At the invocation, "Messieurs, fakes votre
jeu" she saw him reach over the sitters and

place a rouleau of gold before the croupier.
Zero," he said.

Zero," repeated the indifferent voice ; and
the louis were pushed on.

The cylinder revolved. The ball whizzed,
then clinked against a barrier.

Le jeu est fait . . . rien ne va plus. . ."

Trente-deux ; Rouge. Pair et Passe. . ."

Once more.

Again the fatal wheel was set in motion.
At the last moment Warrender bent forward.
This time he deposited the stake with his own
hand. In the action, his arm was rudely shaken
by a pressing outsider. The louis rattled and
were a blur of gold between two compartments.

Trente-cinq, ou has de colonne, monsieur?"
demanded the croupier.

Warrender hesitated.

Le jeu est fait" said the voice of destiny.

T rente-six en plein" cried Warrender.

"Rien ne va plus" said destiny.

"Ztfuo."

*****

She saw him draw abruptly back. The
ranks closed again. The game proceeded. He
faced her.

"It is all gone," he said. "The spell is
broken."

Exultation faintly thrilled his tone. Her
wild utterances had plunged him into a world
of fantasy. He was the instrument of fate.
He had released her from the enchantment
which bound her. He had not grasped the
possibility that this issue might be for her, ina
material sense, deeply momentous. If money
were all she needed, had not he more than
sufficient? Oh, the joy of knowing that these
hateful gains had been flung back to their
source  that tomorrow she would step forth
upon her new life, clad as it were in white,
unsullied by sordid stain !

Gone ! " she repeated with the composure

of utter despair. "It is all over then. Come
away."

She placed her hand within his arm ; and
added in the same dazed, unnaturally still
manner, " We will go to the garden."

Madame Fanoo," said Cazelette from behind,
m a voice of peremptory entreaty. "Remain
where you are, I beg of you. Do not go
out of doors. The air of Monaco is sometimes
pestilential after nightfall. There is
a miasma this evening which might prove
dangerous."

Miasma ! " she repeated scornfully. " Upon
the terrace ! "

Stay ! I beseech, I implore you ! " he
continued with gathering agitation.

Colonel Cazalette," said Varuna with bitter
disdain ; " you have not yet gained the right
to govern my actions."

I entreat you, at least, to remain upon the
terrace. Do not venture where the foliage

is thick  for example, under the eucalyptus
trees."

Madame Fanoo," said Warrender burning
with indignation, " you may trust yourself in
confidence to my care. Let me get your cloak."

She permitted him to lead her away. As
she waited while he obtained her mantle, the
Princess Titchakoff glided by. Nadine paused
just long enough to whisper in her ear : " Avoid
the pavilion by the eucalyptus trees."

Ere Warrender reappeared Princess Titchakoff
had vanished.

The swing doors closed behind Varuna and
her companion. They went out into the 'place,
gleaming with its many lights, which made
the dusk around more mysterious. An electric
globe intensified by its unearthly radiance the
gloom of sombre sky and rugged hills. No
moon was visible. The stars shone fitfully.
The breeze blew fresh with a touch of mistral
in its breath. After the fetid atmosphere she

had quitted, it bore to Varuna a mad sense
of irresponsibility, and filled her with the
excitement of desperation.

She threw her head backward, bathing lips
and brow.

This air pestilential ! " she cried. "
heavens ! if it were so I could breathe it till it
killed me ! " She paused. " I may be leading
you into danger. I am full of strange presentiments
; and you remember what I said
to you about my sixth sense. It is unerring
at times. Go and leave me if you
will. There is some plot  some mystery
afloat. I was warned again before leaving
the Casino. For myself, I am in a reckless
mood. I care not what happens. You used
to be fond of reading Browning to me. I
never cared much for poetry till you taught
me to like his. Don't you know that weird
thing, Tie Last Ride ? That's just how I feel.
Who knows that the world may end to-night f ' "

VOL. II. jr

They had reached the terrace. Before them
stretched the sea ; its " numerous moan "
swelling dirge-like. Afar on the Italian headlands,
a pallid light glimmered like some
flickering star of hope. The aloes' jagged
spikes, the feathery palm branches, and the
faintly stirring foliage of taller trees, blended
imperceptibly with the shadowy obscurity behind,
broken only by the rays of gas-lamps
placed at intervals along the paths.

They were alone. There was neither sound
nor breath, save that of Nature. Something
of the same spirit of self-abandonment which
had leaped in her bosom, heated his blood to
passion's fervour. He wound his arms round

her, and held her tightly locked ; and their

lips were as of one.

She yielded herself to the moment's delirium

the second in a lifetime ; then quietly took

his hands and unfolded them from her form.
God ! " she murmured, so low that the

words of her petition were inaudible to him.
Oh ! Holy Mother of Jesus ! if thou hast
ever known human love, have mercy and let
me die to-night."

Varuna ! " cried Warrender in agonised
tenderness. " My love ! my heart's darling !
what is it ? "

She walked on silently, away from the
embankment to a spot where the trees grew
close overhead, and where a little distance off,
almost hidden by the overhanging branches,
there stood a small marble pavilion. One
lamp at the entrance of the shrubbery feebly
illuminated the scene. Here Varuna halted.
He would have clasped her to his heart again,
but she waved him from her.

Varuna," he implored. " Why do you
look so wretched ? "What is the meaning of
your wild manner ? "

She laughed hysterically. " The meaning,"
she repeated. "It is quickly told. I have

played with the devil for my soul, and have
lost. To-morrow the debt must be paid."

No, no ; " cried Warrender passionately.
To-morrow will see the dawn of a new life
the life of happiness and love."

Leave me," said Varuna faintly. " I
said that I would give you my answer, but
I cannot do it now. I must be alone for a
little while. I will write in the morning."

Leave you  here  alone ? Impossible ! "

As he spoke Cazalette stepped down from
the pavilion. " Mr. Warrender, Madame Fanoo
is right. Leave her for the present."

Do you wish me to obey you ? " asked
Warrender.

Yes," she replied firmly. " Go ! "

He said no more but did her bidding.

Varuna turned haughtily to Cazalette.

"Have you come here to play the spy?"

No, I came to shield you from danger.
Did I not warn you not to venture near

this spot ? " He seized her hand, " Come
away ! "

Are there assassins lurking among the
eucalyptus trees ? So much the better. Let
them come forth and murder us both. The
world would be rid of a bad man and of a
reckless, miserable woman."

Varuna, this is madness. Come ! "

At that moment a step sounded upon the
gravel, close to the pavilion. The lamp's rays
fell upon an advancing figure. It was that of
the Crown Prince. Cazalette uttered a deep,
shuddering sigh. His grip upon Varuna's
fingers relaxed. She moved slightly forward.
The Prince saw only a woman's form.

Madame," he began. " My impatience has
brought me here a few minutes before the hour.
Nadinc has but to command. You see that I
would have awaited you."

Sir," said Varuna, " I am not the Princess
Titchakoff, but Providence has sent me hereto

warn you. Go ! Do not stay one moment.
There is treachery in the air. You are in
danger."

The Prince started as she addressed him.
If that be true, neither are you safe. Let
me escort you to the Casino, unless you also
are expecting a companion."

My companion is here, sir, and / need
not fear hidden perils. I beseech you goat
once."

The Prince bowed. " I have no choice but
to obey you, madame, since the place of
rendezvous is already appropriated," he said,
half ironically, and retired.

Cazalette rushed towards Varuna, who had
stationed herself against one of the pillars of
the pavilion.

Come  for God's sake come ! " he cried in
agony.

There is time yet," she answered with a
smile. " You are in the secrets of the

conspirators. Eleven is the appointed hour, is
it not ? Do you give the signal for assassination
? Have you so little control over your
hirelings that you are afraid they will stab
the woman who has baulked them of their
prey ! "

He seized her in his arms. The earth shook
beneath them ; her shriek ran out into the
night, drowned in a mighty roar. There was
a sharp, deafening concussion, a crash of
loosened earth and falling stone, and then
silence.

* * * 

Ere morning broke, intelligence had been
flashed through Europe of the dynamite explosion
at Monte Carlo, of the miraculous escape
of the heir to a throne, and of the traffic fate
of Colonel Cazalette and Varuna Fanoo.

