CHAPTER I.

Starts ' AND ITS MASTER.

It is a good many years now. tliougli there
are people lining in the old Avert-country
town who recollect it still, since the time
when a prominent figure in their midst
was John Ahv}'n, magistrate, counsellor
of the borough, counsel-man on matters
pecuniary, personal, domestic, or civic, to
numberless fellow-burghers ; last surviving
representative of a high-class legal firm,
that through three generations had held
honourable rank in the county, and fore-vol.

I. B

most place in the society of Stillcote-
Upton.

He was a tall, fine man, this lawyer,
bearing his more than half century of life
with the ease of one who has always owned
perfect health, few cares, and a full purse ;
liberal-minded, as cordial intercourse with
every grade betokened ; trusted and trustworthy
; heartily respected by his ide
circle of acquaintance, heartily liked by a
smaller circle of intimates.

That this need not have been small goes
Without saying, for not a house in Stillcote-
Upton but would gladly have welcomed
Mr. Alwyn for its guest  not a family
but would have been delighted to visit at
his red-bricked dwelling, ' Stuartss,' as it
had been named long ago, when for an
hour it sheltered a royal fugitive from a
fatal field ; and which, with front first-floor
dedicated to clerks and offices, stood at the

main entrance of the town, faced by an
iron palisade enclosure of smooth-shaven
lawn, through which curved a crescent
drive, beginning and ending nth tall
gates flanked by sturdy brick pillars, each
wearing as its crown a huge lichen-tinted
stone ball ; but the burden of general visiting
the master of his mansion had never
cared to incur. As a bachelor he had not
been expected to cultivate the art of entertaining.
There were dozens of ways by
which he could  and did  requite such
hospitality as he received of other folks.
For the rest, he liked nothing better than
to keep his house as it had been in his
father s time before him, solid and handsome
in all its equipments, unchanged by
fluctuating fashions of the day, and to
spend his evenings mostly in the solitude
to him never wearisome  of a well stocked
library.

b2

But this rule of life knew one exception.
Once every week post-prandial seclusion
gave place to another arrangement, which
might almost be called an institution.

On every Wednesday the leather-covered
table of the study retired to a bay-window
overlooking a long garden ; four stands,
which resided elsetime up four corners of
the room, were brought forth and set in
unvarying array before four chairs, which
would be presently tenanted by the host
and a trio as devoted to the intricacies of
classical instrumentation as he was himself.

Never had Beethoven a more devout
worshipper than the leader of this weekly
quartette, and never, perhaps, was his life to
know happier moments than those spent in
affectionate interpretation of some unspeakably
lovely adagio, some minuet as graceful
as the scent of a new-bloAvn rose is
sweet, or some rondo so crisp and fresh as to

put the long-drawn discords of latter-day
harmony to shame.

For three hours these coadjutors would
ply their bows, and then would follow
supper  plain, but excellent as epicure
could Lavish ; and then, as the timepiece
between the windows rang forth '' Auld
Lang Syne ' and struck eleven, the party
would break up. Second violin and 'cello 
one the widower rector of the chief church
St. Clement's, the other a physician of
ample means and leisure  would go off
arm-in-arm towards the West-end of the
little town while the viola would turn
down High Street to a more modest abode.

Socially he was somewhat less than
the others ; by name Jacob Cheese,
chief of the copying and what may be
called ' general drudgery ' department in
Mr. Alwyn's office  a man of great devotion
to his employer, but of perhaps, except

in one direction, no particular ability,
since lie gained no upward step in his
employment from youth to age, save that to
which long plodding service entitled him.
People were amused at the lawyer's patronage
of his subordinate when it began
years before, and thought he might have
chosen, as sharer of his tastes and companion
of his tAVO daily walks, some one more
suitable than an inferior employe. But Mr.
Alwyn had a habit of following his own
prejudices. Possibly he may have had
other reasons for taking to Jacob Cheese,
over and above their mutual love of one
harmonious mistress ; but, at any rate, his
kindly notice of the quiet, shy man never
slackened. By now the clerk's place in
the quartette was as well established as his
master's ; while year in and year out, as
half-past nine chimed from St. Clement's
Tower, the lawyer would emerge from hi

door, and bend his steps east-ward as far
as Mr. Cheene's domicile ; then the two
would return, reaching the office invariably
at ten, reappearing to make precisely the
same journey at four o'clock to the minute.

Their dominant o-oino was as 'natural
now as the sound of the church-bells themselves.
Shopkeepers, postmen, policemen,
and habitues of the thoroughfare would
have felt any day begin awkwardly which
had not brought the pair by to receive the
well-differentiated bow and nod of greeting ;
and, if the custom ever evoked question
or smile, it was gravely explained as
'just one of Mr. Alwyn's pleasant bachelor
ways,' with which, of course, no fault could
possibly be found.

Indeed, no one ever found fault nth any
of the worthy gentleman's ways, except
that they lore bachelor ; and this fact had
been a thorn in the flesh to, and somewhat

of a stigma on, the ladies of those parts for
the last thirty years.

That a man so eligible, so wealthy, and
so evidently born for domesticity, should
have escaped the snares of matrimony laid
incessantly with more or less craftiness in
his path was an enigma provoking to spinster
minds  a standing vexation to many
a would-be matron ! But the gentleman
was apparently invulnerable to female
charms. By now, all hopes of his changing
his condition were given up. ' Confirmed
old bachelor !' was the title freely applied
to him ; and people were beginning to wonder
who, in the absence of near relatives,
would be his heir, when at the precise
juncture he  or fate for him  upset everybody's
calculation in the most extraordinary
manner. In plain English, he got married.

The precise steps of this rash and marvellous
act were as follows : 

It has been said Mr. Abvyn never entertained
; but one solemn annual festivity
was the exception which proved this rule.

In late June or early July, when the
long, splendidly-kept rows of strawberry-beds
in his big south sloping garden were
in full luscious bearing, when after much
netting and tending, and watching from
early dawn, to ' keep they brutes of blackbirds
ois,' Bond, their guardian, would
pronounce them fit, and bid his master ' lev
'em eat !' then short-notice invitations went
forth, scarcely ever to meet refusal, for
every one was on the look-out for them.
Mr. Alwyn's four old servants awoke into
unusual activity. The large, rarely used
dining and drawing-rooms were set in company
order, brocaded curtains were shaken
out, dragon china was brought forth, such
silver Alas so polished that the tables looked
like an entanglement of sunbeams : and

some four or five score guests made the
most of their host's rare hospitality, ate his
fruit, strolled about his broad paths flanked
by great bushes, guelder roses, and
such out-of-date flower-belles, and wished
that their chance of such a treat came
oftener.

It was at one of these strawberry gatherings
that a stranger appeared. * An old
schoolfellow of mine whom I'd not seen for
years  not since she lost her husband; and
she is only \ith me for a short time, so I
ventured to bring her,' explained Mrs.
Morton, wife of the musical doctor ; upon
which Mrs. Yilliers, a most distinctly handsome
woman of perhaps five-and-thirty.
drew near, made a very graceful bow containing
just enough timidity to be appealing,
and ' did so hoje she was not intruding
!' and John Alwyn, in his courtliest
manner, hastened to assure her he was

only too much lionoiirecl. and  two years
short of sixty though he might be  certain
is it that for the first time in his existence
his fancy was caught, the heart that had
resisted every species of maiden blandishment
succumbed to the widow I

What the had knew of him and his
position before her visit could not have
been much, but she skilfully made the
most of it on that June afternoon.

 Had Mr. Alwyn always lived here ?' she
asked, as he gallantly accompanied the
stranger of the party along the lime-tree
walk.  Oh. what a pleasure to feel rooted
to such a charming spot !' looking round
vdxh dark liquid \t>. ' Xow. she had to
live in London. Ah !" with a shrug of her
very handsome shoulders. ' the dust, the
noise, the unrest were frightful. But.'
with quite a touching sigh.  she supposed
she was doomed to it. Poor people, such

as herself, had no choice. And were those
trees actually planted just when Mr. Alwyn
was born ?' as her host pointed out the
beauties of  Stuartss.' ' Why, how fast
they must have grown, then! To a smoke-dried
mortal like her'  with a becoming
blush at the self-uttered slander, for her
complexion was still brilliantly clear  ' the
place seemed a perfect paradise. But Mr.
Alwyn was a very naughty, naughty man.
' Why ?' ' Why, because,' indicating the
gay groups upon the lawn, ' among so
many charming friends he had chosen no
Eve!'

Perchance the bright audacity of the
lady's manner took the lawyer a little off
his head. He straightened himself up at
that suggestion about Eve, and began to
wonder within himself whether fifty-eight
could be called exactly ' old.' He looked
at his reflection in a deep-framed concave

mirror over the sideboard when he took
his fair guest in for refreshment, and
flattered himself his diminished figure had
a decidedly juvenile air. Mrs. Villiers
was charmed with the cream, with the
china, with the spoons, with the room,
with everything ; and the more she admired
his possessions the more he admired her
taste. She caught sight of musical
paraphernalia through the open door of
the library, and must needs inspect his
Cremona : ' The only instrument on earth
worth studying!' she declared, admitting,
quite apologetically, that she could only
play upon those wretched things, pianos,
and sing  a little. ' Ah !' turning over a
well-used score, 'here was that delicious
thing of Beethoven's. How she loved the
motif!" ' And with a voice rich and well-trained
she sol-feed forth the melody.
*But, oh, if Mr. Alwyn would play it!

Where were the rest of the quartette?
Not all here ! Ah ! then she couldn't hear
it, and she was so sorry !'

But then and there her infatuated host
remedied the disappointment.

If Mrs. Villiers were remaining over
Wednesday, and with Mrs. Morton would
dine with him, he and his fellow-performers
would proudly do their best to please her.'
And the following week positively witnessed
a stately dinner in the fascinating lady's
behalf, to the amazement and disgust of
the old servants, who saw in it only too
clearly the beginning of the end.

And such it was.

Mrs. Villiers, graciousness itself to every
individual of the quartette, preserved an
attitude of extreme interest through three
sonatas, and moved about the stately
drawing-room in the intervals, so charmed
with every piece of quaint old bijouterie,

looking herself so bewitching, in a long
gracefully-sweeping robe of soft dark satin,
that when she left, and her host returned
to the vacant room, it seemed as though
she alone, to the extinction of others'
presence, had been adorning it ; her single
absence left it desolate.

It was only a few days after that evening
that Stillcote-Upton was electrified by the
news that Mr. Alwyn was to be married,
and at once !

The widow may have felt that all delays
are dangerous, and so prudently avoided
any when once her suitor was fairly at her
feet. A brother from the South of England
appeared upon the scene to attend to the
matter of settlements  ' for, please, don't
speak to me about them,' begged the lady,
'I'm such a baby about business !' but, asher
relative was quite the reverse, a very
handsome arrangement was made for the

bride-elect, whose first husband, from his
Civil Service income, had left her but
slenderly provided for.

Now twelve thousand pounds were to be
hers and her one child's, Leonora Yilliers,
a little demoiselle of five : the interest, the
mother's solely as an independent income.
Six thousand more were placed with the
same trustees as part portion for any future
offspring, the interest to be the wife's only
till any such came of age. Further fortune
for the same would, of course, be provided
by will. And these deeds were
accomplished, the fair widow had returned
to town, Mr. Alwyn had followed her
there, and the wedding was a fact established
before people in general had left off
saying the whole report must be a preposterous
hoax.

But an early August announcement in
the ever-veracious Chronicle dispelled that

notion. Mr. Alwyn was indisputably married
; and, though there was not a soul
in the place but wished him personally
well, equally was there no single townsman
but expressed his opinion, more or less
bluntly, that there was no fool like an old
fool, and hoped, with foreboding shakes of
the head, that this autumnal wooing and
wedding might not turn out a tremendous
blunder.

It showed no signs of doing so just at
first.

Bride and bridegroom returned from
their honey-moon looking very handsome
and very self-satisfied : and, for a brief
season, the change effected seemed for the
better.

Hospitality opened the doors of the
old mansion oftener. Mr. Alwyn's many
friends gave receptions in his honour.
These were worthily returned, and the wife

VOL. I. c

appeared indefatigable in endeavours to
please everywhere. For a few weeks the
lady's unvarying graciousness secured
universal applause, and Stillcote-Upton
considered the lawyer's matrimonial venture
a veritable success.

But gradually this feeling changed.

As a matter of course the old habits of
a quarter of a century had early to be discarded.
There could be no morning
traversing of the High Street now with
Jacob Cheene for Mr. Alwyn, when the
mistress of his table had hardly put in an
appearance for breakfast at the hour he had
been wont to start out, and all his afternoons
had to be devoted to the strange
arts of giving and receiving calls. And
the Wednesday evenings, which Mrs. Alwyn
had smilingly declared ' were never to be
disturbed  oh, never !' made but a brief
pretence of prolonging their existence.

They were attempted, truly, but at the first
the lady, less humble than of yore, desired
a share in the performance, and essayed an
accompaniment on a fine 'grand,' purchased
as soon as she came home, and the
time under her guidance got into perplexities,
and an ' allegro finale ' stranded
them all in despairing confusion, and the
next week Mrs. Alwyn had a headache and
kept to her own room. A dinner-party
postponed the third. Then the clerical
second violin undertook some evening
services for a friend, the 'cello began to
fancy the night air bad for his bronchitis
(an ailment newly developed), and the
viola saw his once greatest delight melting
away with something of relief. The sensitiveness
of his lowlier sphere had early discovered
and winced under one quality of
the bride which the whole town found out
later on. The wife of the rich lawyer  his

master  patronised her husband's clerk
with a condescension that would have poisoned
the greatest kindness upon earth.
And so the quartette broke up, 'to meet
by special arrangement as often as we can,
you know,' said the leader, rather ruefully ;
but the meetings somehow never managed
to arrange themselves that first winter,
and by the second they were still more
impracticable.

For by then Mrs. Alwyn, having Yith.
much cordiality inspected the society of
Stillcote-Upton, had come to the conclusion
that it was not on the whole worth her maintaining
an amiable front to please. So she
took no pains to prolong her short-lived
popularity ; began to have serious doubts
as to whether the town suited her health,
grew quite certain that the south end of it
did 7iofj and between pretty persuasions,
which she still exercised over her elderly

husband, and persistent complaints,
at length induced Mr. Ahvyn to leave
 Stuartss,' the old home of three generations,
and rent some three miles countryman a
larger and far more pretentious dwelling,
known as Guysmck Hall.

Here the lady soared into high society,
and devised entertainments that included
few townspeople. The closer county circle
was her ambition, and into this, by dint of
some ability and good looks, plus her husband's
money and acknowledged standing,
she contrived to effect an entrance.

Under his wife's rule, which he never
combated till it grew past his control, the
lawyer had soon a marvellously fine
establishment, with horses, servants, equipages
such as he had never felt the want
of before, though he was now given to understand
they were the merest necessaries
of life. Each day a smart groom drove

him to his office at the old deserted house
(whose blank windows gazed at him so reproachfully,
he knew no rest till he had
settled a chief clerk in residence, much to
Mrs. Alwyn*s annoyance   As if we could
not afford to let it stand empty !' she said),
and every afternoon his wife's brougham,
with or Without herself, would fetch him
out. Of his four old servants all were
soon gone, to be replaced by double the
number of new faces. Of his old friends
he scarcely got a glimpse, except as business
brought them together. So much
change, much grandeur, much show of enjoyment,
and assuredly much use of riches
were imported into his life. Whether they
brought With them much comfort or much
happiness, was a point on which outsiders
indulged in stronger opinions than he permitted
himself.

But one thing the second year of his

married life brought him which was a j oy
unquestionable  something to be wondered
at, admired, gloried in  in other words a
little daughter.

CHAPTER II.

life's FEBRUARY.

Now the advent of this little one was regarded
by the father and mother in very
different lights.

To Mrs. Ahvyn it represented a certain
amount of care, which she minimised by
giving the child over chiefly to the tending
of servants : a temporary check to her gay
life which, however, she recovered as rapidly
as possible : and, gravest annoyance of
all, a claimant to a third of her marriage
settlement, which she had fondly horsed to
keep intact in her own hands, an heiress
probably to a much larger sum which
otherwise might have become hers.

So a dreadful disappointment the arrival
of this small mortal was to the fashionable
and far-calculating parent, who, in some
sort, though maybe without premeditated
unkindness, always seemed to bear her
younger offspring a grudge for having presumed
to enter into existence, and gave
her only a chill, perfunctory affection, very
different from the devotion which she
lavished on little Leonora, child of her
first, more hopeful marriage.

Only in one respect did the mother treat
her children alike  in the matter of their
outward adornment. The spending of
money was a luxury neither her youth nor
her first matrimonial position had granted
her ; now she revelled in it, and the baby's
toilettes matched her step-sister's elaborate
costumes, receiving from her christening
appearance in white satin and swansdown,
through every stage of infant decoration,

more maternal attention than all other
requirements put together.

This done, Mrs. Alwyn felt contentedly
that nothing more could be demanded of
her, and with Leonora for constant companion
troubled herself but little with
the unwelcome presence of her last-born.

JSTot so the father. He, poor man, had
found out well enough by now that he had
made an irremediable blunder, that he
himself had been a very secondary attraction
to the lady who had accepted his name
for the sake of his purse.

But he bore his disappointment with
quiet stoicism, wisely resolving not to make
himself a further laughing-stock by complaining
of what could never be cured, and
the birth of his child seemed to him an
absolute recompense for all domestic
failures.

She was to him the most marvellous and

delightful piece of creation upon earth.
Early morning, late night, found him with
his oiFerinej of orowino love at the cradle-side
of this dimpled, solemn-eyed miracle.
A whole vista of new joys opened upon
him with the first stammering utterance of
her baby tongue, and his only pang concerning
her was that life, which gave him
this treasure so late, would be closing for
him while her days were yet in their
spring-time.

His friends of bachelor years might have
inclined towards ridiculing the pride of
this first-time father of three-score, but it
was too genuine, and, counting the great
gap of age between sire and child, too
pathetic to be lightly jested at. So Mr.
Alwyn's baby-girl was accepted unreservedly
into the circle of all who would stand
well with her wealthy parent. Clients made
a point of inquiring as to her progress

on the world's first stage. Clerks, married
ones, were deeply interested when her
little pearly bits of teeth came through ;
sino-le ones were elated when she could run
alone. Xow and then the marvellous little
maiden would be brought to ' Stuartss ' and
exhibited in a sort of triumphal progress,
first to Mrs. Greaves, the manager's wife,
who, with many of her own, had still a
stock of enthusiastic admiration for this
one ; then to the old gardener, still retained,
who ' blessed her pretty eyes, and never
shouldn't have thowt to see such a sight as
she was, never !' and then to Jacob Cheene,
for whose grave, plain countenance the
little one soon showed a discerning affection,
and would close one of her small, soft
hands round his long forefingers, and so
lead him about the place in a state of embarrassed
pleasure, at which Mr. Alwyn
would chuckle with amusement.

Little Syd makes her choice early,' be
would say.  She takes the full responsibilities
of iDeirig the only young Alwyn,
and means to be true to old friends, like
her grandfather and great-grandfather !'

'Ay, and like her father,' would Mr.
Cheene answer, ' as there'll be plenty to
tell her, myself soonest if I live long
enough.'

At which his employer would reach over
his little one's head a remonstrating hand
on the speaker's stooping shoulders, with 

Chut, chut, Jacob ! don't be personal '
(the lawyer was proud of the esteem
attaching to his family, but never greedy
of compliment for himself) ; ' you teach
her her scales when she's big enough, that
will be undertaking: enough for you. I'll
buy her a violin as soon as she can hold it,
and we'll see if we can't play some trios to
our satisfaction yet !'

And the two grey-haired men would
laugh, almost forgetting the burden of
their years as they mapped out Sydney's
musical future, leading her uncertain steps
the while along the lime-tree walk, little
divining what chords, harmonious or discordant,
their three lives would strike out
and sound upon men's ears in the unknown
by-and-by.

Meanwhile, while Sydney  or to give
the full baptismal title, bestowed in
remembrance of her father's mother,
Sydney Grey '  Alwyn was growing out
of the vagueness of infancy into the more
definite shape of six or seven years old,
the home life of Guysmck Hall, if altered
in any respect, had altered for the worse.
Master and mistress were wide as the poles
asunder in their tastes. Practically, as
well as metaphorically, Beethoven was
shelved, and OiFenbach ruled in his place.

Mrs. Alwyn's brilliant little dinners, or
gay evening assemblies, were arranged
without regard to her husband's wishes or
engagements. If he appeared at them, so
much the better for the look of the think;.
If he kept away, she had always some
ready excuse for his absence, and, shining
most herself when he was not by, so
exercised her powers of entertainment that
the elderly host was very little missed.

Splendidly dressed, lavish at all points,
patroness of every amusement in the neighbourhood,
quite clear now of the common
professional set to which her marriage had
first introduced her, the lady made a
point of enjoying life most thoroughly.
Her ponies, her brougham, her lace and
her furs, her orchids and ferns, her pug
dogs, and fifty other fancies, were food for
gossiping amusement to half the countryside,
and the only share her husband had

in these increasing luxuries was to find
the funds for their purchase.

Over this part of the business he had of
Late demurred more than once, the last
time with serious vexation, but with no
better success than to bring down upon
himself a prolonged dose of sullen indignation
and a heavy purchase of costly
Satsuma for the drawing-room shelves.
And possibly this state of things troubled
the lawyer more than he cared to confessor
in fact had any one to confess to. But
it seems to Sydney that, just at this time
when recollection of her father begins, he
grew older and graver very fast indeed.

Other people were of the same opinion.

'You're not looking yourself, Alwyn,'
the rector of St. Clement's said, advancing
from his garden-gate one morning as the
lawyer drove by to his office, Sydney
perched by his side according to frequent

custom. ' I don't believe, after all,
Guysmck suits you half as well as " Stuartss"
did.'

'Half! no, not a hundredth, part
answered John Alwjn, hastily ; ' though,'
pulling himself up short, too proud to
parade his troubles, ' the place is well
enough in its way. Why don't you come
and see it oftener?'

Oh, you know,' evasively returned the
clergyman, ' I'm busy. My boy is back
from Oxford. I'm coaching him through
the " long." But I do want a chat nth you
about '  dropping his voice and leaning
forward  'that investment of mine. I'll
come round to your office soon. This
week, if it will suit you.'

Next will do better,' said the lawyer,
gathering up the slackened reins, his forehead
contracting, though he was not given
to signs of impatience.

VOL. I. D

Then next be it. And well, little maid,'
smiling at Sydney's gravely attentive face,
what did you mean by not being a boy,
eh ? A lad could have been helping his
father by now, couldn't he?'

So can a girl ! So can I ; so I loillf
returned Sydney, her great dark eyes,
sometimes hazel, sometimes deepest blue,
dilating with a most childlike anxiety.
(' Why did everyone keep telling her father
he looked ill ?') ' Papa, may I stay with
you to-day, and sit by you and stamp your
letters? You like that sometimes, don't
you?'

Little goose,' he answered, fondly,
don't I like it always ? We'll indulge in
that treat soon, when we're not so full of
work.'

Nor so fall of cares,' thought the rector,
as he stepped back and let them drive on.
It strikes me, John Alwyn, that marriage

of yours was about the worst venture you
ever made in your life !'

Which was nearly, but unfortunately not
quite the truth !

Two scenes of that the first summer
registered in Sydney's memory abide with
her, never to be effaced.

One is of a June evening, herself led to
a much-decorated dressing-room to say
formal good-night to her mother, who, very
dazzling and superb, is arrayed for some
evening visit. Her father stands by the
window.

It is the third time,' Mrs. Alwyn says,
in tones of annoyance that she does not
soften as the child enters, ' the third time
I have accepted for you to the Wynne,
and you have always called off going. It
is most ungracious and provoking of you.
They may take offence. Lady Wynne
always looks incredulous when I say

D 

you are unwell, or something of the sort.'

She need not be incredulous to-night,'
returns Mr. Alwyn, wearily ; ' there will
be no pretence about your apology for
once.'

Mrs. Alwyn flashes at him a doubting
glance.

 If you are not well, why did you stay
at your office so late?'

expecting letters.'

And never gave a thought, of course
to my convenience ! You knew I should
wait till you came back, to see whether you
were going with me or not,'

I assured you I should not, before I left

this morning. They are people out of our

' . range. The effort of an evening there, now

when I'm harassed in all directions, would

have crazed me.'

His tone is so broken, so dejected, that
Sydney's eyes fill suddenly nth tears as,

yiih a furtive side-look at her mother, she
steals behind the dressing-table to lier
father's elbow. But Mrs. Alwyn's pity is
reserved for her oayu grievance. The
Wynne are particular as to the proprieties,
and she is bent on dragging her
husband to their dinner.

 It is not at all agreeable for me to go
again alone. There may be busybodies who
will make impertinent remarks . You really
must exert yourself, Mr. Alwyn, and accompany
me sometimes, or '

Or,' he interrupts, looking with a faint
gleam of his old admiration at his wife,
handsome still  ' a splendid woman ' some
people yet called her  ' or else you must
give up some of your engagements and
stay at home With the old man you've tied
yourself to! Well, is that such a hard
fate ! Helen '  he uses the name so seldom,
she starts to hear it, and draws a

little back as he advances  ' I'm worried
now, and  and anxious. Could you not
forego this dinner ? Could you not stay
with me this evening ?'

She gathers up the long train of her
beautiful gleaming dress with a gesture
of irritation at such an inconsiderate
suggestion.

You now the St. Helpers are to be
there !' she says, with an emphasis which
seems to express that such society would
draw her from any duty on earth ; ' I am
alive to the compliment of being asked to
meet them, Mr. Alwyn, if you are not !
Don't come down with me if you are not
well. Lettuce will put my cloak on, thank
you. Good-night. And, Sydney,' just
stopping to let the child touch her cheek,
you may well be pale. You ought to be
in bed !'

The carriage wheels sound down the

sweep and past the chestnut drive, by the
curtseying women at the lodge ; and, quite
sure now that the house-mistress is gone,
Sydney caresses her father's listless hand
as he sighs heavily, and asks,

Shall we go down, papa, to your dinner ?
And need I go to bed?'

He wants no dinner, he says, and she may
stay with him a little while ; so they
descend too-ether to a small, west-fronting:
room, opening on a delicious piece of lawn
spangled sith beds of blue forget-me-nots,
sheltered from the setting sun by wide
boughs of a glorious emerald-tinted beech.

The red light flickers through the leaves,
and sets the shadows dancing on the walls.
Chaffinches by dozens kept 
outside. Sydney tells her father
the doings of the day : how her white rose
is out at last ; he is to have the first bud
for his button-hole tomorrow  and how

she can ride round the croft viitliout a
guiding-rein, and Havens, her coachman-tutor,
says she will be a credit to him.
Mr. Alwyn listens very silently, ready with
a smile when Sydney looks at him, not
smiling when released from her gaze. She
sees his thoughts are far away, and presently
ceases talking.

The shadows from the beech are gone
now. Twilight fills the room as they still
sit on, and Leonora's evening practice
jingles on upstairs unceasingly. The child
is half asleep when a strange step on the
gravel sets the dogs barking, then the
butler brings in a lamp and something ina
pink envelope.

Sydney thinks she has tired her father,
leaning so long upon his arm, for his hand
trembles as he opens his missive. She
would read it too, but he puts her aside,

kisses her slowly once  twice  and bids
her go to bed.

Then he comes up for another goodnight,
with a leather bag in his hand,
another coat upon his arm, and Sydney, ina
spasm of wakefulness, stifles her lamentations
over his going a journey because he
looks so troubled, bids him be quick back,
and follows, a little, barefooted white-nightgown
figure, to watch over the bannisters
for the last glimpse of him as he leaves
thus, in unexplained haste, his splendid
home at Ryswick.

CHAPTER III.

A SHADOW OF THE FUTURE.

And this is the other scene which, misty
of detail, will haunt Sydney to the end of
time.

A pretty hamlet at a little distance from
Giiyswick. A grey old church looming up
across a rustic road, near by the fruit-trees
of a cottage-garden. A warm, sunny
afternoon, with a great humming of bees
and scent of stocks and wall-flowers in the
air. The constant sound of a busy hoe at
work, not far off, and the crooning of some
minor-keyed ditty by an old figure, dressed
quaintly in dark-coloured stuff, with

snow-white cap and kerchief pinned in
front, knitting diligently under shade of a
yellow laburnum.

This is ' Taffy,' or ' Mrs. Taverner,' affectionately
abbreviated, the nurse whose last
piece of official work was presiding over
Sydney's very earliest days, and who now,
with well-earned savings, takes the rest of
threescore years and ten. Her home is
with a daughter, once a servant at ' Stuartss,'
whose husband married from his post of
second gardener there to the dignity of a,
cottage and 'marketing' for Stillcote-Upton
on his own account. He is clerk of the
church close by ; a thrifty, hard-working
soul, plodding contentedly on from morn
till night, putting his few pounds by year
after year against a rainy day, or maybe
for a legacy to his good ' missus,' or a fortune
for the lasses who are now doing for
themselves in honest service.

They are steady, sterling people all in
their way, and the elder dame is a prodigious
favourite with all her children, as she
calls a goodly list, beginning with men
long since out of their teens, ending with
Sydney Alwyn. Her duties with the
brood whose first cries she hushed have not
finished with the nursery, as many of her
grown-up babies testify, for hopes and fears,
troubles and joys, loves and hates, find
their way to Taffy's sympathetic confidence
often before the household they
belong to half suspect them, and rarely a
week goes by without bringing a visitor
out of her old working circle to nurse's
cottage.

There Sydney, to her unfailing delight,
is sometimes allowed a sojourn.

When her mother takes Leonora to the
sea, when any epidemic is reported at
guys wick, or if any jar domestic lessens

the establishment for a time, the child is
sent for a few days to Nurse. There her
father comes round morning or evening; to
see her. There she revels in the freedom
of her oldest frocks, and learns the letters
and syllables so difficult to attain in the
school-room at home quite easily off the
tombstones in the churchyard under Taffy's
spectacled instructions.

Naturally, they make much of the little
lady at the cottage, for, over and above
their genuine fondness for her, the visits
of the rich man's child are pleasant little
windfalls to these frugal folk. So they
keep a tiny cupboard-like apartment, with
a diamond-paned casement that tiger-lilies
peep in at and monthly roses are always
blooming round, for her very own. They
mostly hind some infant chicks or downy
rabbits for her playmates. They fix a
swing for her in the big russet apple-tree

and pluck for her any flowers her fancy-fixes
on.

She has a chain of double daisies round
her now, as with arms upward clinging to
the ropes she sits slowly swaying backwards
and forwards in the chequered light
under the apple boughs, and her old guardian,
stopping the clicking of her bright
pins to watch her, thinks this last of her
foster flock is the fairest of them all, and
wonders what makes her changeling look
so very grave.

Presently Sydney calls to her 
'Taffy, when did I come here?'

On Tuesday, my pretty.'
'And what's to-day?'

Friday.'

And papa hasn't been to see me !'
Maybe he's not back yet, missy.'

 No, perhaps not,' says the child, slowly,

for,' brightening, ' he mil be sure to come
when he gets home.'

Sure,' repeats the old woman, confidently
; and then adds, ' Was your mamma
gone out too. Miss Sydney ? Havens
didn't say.'

sand  I don't know,' answers Sydney,
her voice dropping, as it always does when
she speaks of her mother, who never gives
the younger born more place in her pursuits
than she does in her heart. Then,
still swinging softly, she thinks profoundly
a minute or two, and the outcome of her
meditation is,

'I wish, TaiFy, I always lived with you, if
papa came every day to see me.'

Which says more than she intends, for
nurse looks sorry as she answers 

Nay, my pretty. Mr. Alwyn couldn't
afford that noways !'

Not afford it ! Do I cost so much to
keep?'

Nurse is glad of something to laugh at.

Why, afford to spare you, Miss Sydney,
I mean. Your cost ain't much ! We
wouldn't mind keeping you for nothing.'

Oh, then,' says the child, ' if I ' but

she breaks off abruptly, disturbed by the
sound of an approaching step.

The little gate at the end of the garden
path is unlatched, and, striding between
sweet-williams and Canterbury bells, up
comes a tall, big-framed lad, with reddish-brown
curly hair and eyes, over which he
draws his darker brows as if to keep the
glare of sunshine off.

Sydney ceases swinging to watch, a trifle
jealously, as Taffy gets up and joyfully
greets this new-comer with,

Why, Master Bertie, back again from
school I Oh, I ask pardon, my old head

can't keep up with such a lot of new
names ; anyhow, back, and not grown
too proud to come and see me, I declare !'

'Back!' repeats the youth, as he gives
her welcoming hands a hearty shake.
Yes, and likely to keep back. But
proud !'  flinging himself on the end of the
bench under the laburnum  ' It's a little
too late in the day for me to set up in that
line, I promise you. For, oh, TaiFy, do
you know we are in a muddle, and no
mistake !'

Then he leans forward till he brings his
face, with the square-cut chin resting in
his large, nervous hand, close to Nurse
Taverner's shoulder, and plunges into the
story of whatever escapade or veritable
trouble he has just hinted at.

Sydney hears nothing of it all, for, when
assured that he is a stranger to her, or
nearly so (she has just a glimmering notion

VOL. I. E

she has seen him somewhere, in the town
perhaps), and that nurse and he want to
talk together, she intuitively turns her
back upon the pair, and gives her undivided
attention to a couple of black-caps
<ihasino; each other in and out anion o; the
apple leaves. But presently a startled
Good sakes alive !' from the old woman
attracts her attention, and she looks round
while TaiFy says something else, of her
apparently, for most certainly it is at her
the boy's deep-set eyes flash the wrathful
glance she is just in time to catch, as he
exclaims, passionately,

An imp of evil ! I hate her !'
soh, Master Bertie, do hush!' The
child's senses, on the alert now, hear her
old friend plead, and then she jumps down
from her swing, runs off past Mr. Lewis
hoeing French beans in his shirt-sleeves,
and hides herself and a babyish disposition

to cry in a grove of currant bushes
at the furthermost corner of the garden.

Somebody says he hates her, and she
has never hurt that some one ! Why
does he hate her  hers when she does so
love to be loved ? He has called her a
dreadful sort of name which she is positive
she cannot deserve. Will many people treat
her like this as she grows older ? A fright
of the future overtakes her. A great
qualm of aggrieved injustice sets sobs rising
and falling under her fading daisy
chain, and her sensitive little soul, inured
by now to cold neglect, frets sorely at the
notion of active unmerited dislike.

In the midst of her distress the intruding
origin of it, his conference with Taffy
at an end, stalks homeward bound along
the lane outside, and Sydney, no coward
howsoe'er soft-hearted, dries up her tears,
peeps at him over the hedge, and arrests

 ILUNOIi.

his steps before he has passed the bounds
of Mr. Lewis's tidy plots.

He is not by any means a grown-up man,
she thinks, manhood being identical, in her
mind, with grey hairs such as her father
has, so she has to choose a form of address
for him as she climbs over a. separating
stile ; which point settled she confronts
him and demands, with an odd mixture of
the imperious and the pleading,

Boy, why do you hate me ? Stop and
tell me, please.'

The lad colours awkwardly, and begins
to frown again, but looking from his great
height on the exceedingly anxious little
face upturned to him he relents and tries
to stave the matter off as a species of
joke.

'- Oh, that was nothing, little one ! Only
some of my  my nonsense. Don't you
trouble about anything you heard.'

But I must trouble,' Sydney persists ;
 I didn't like it at all. You said I was a 
a  nymph of evil. Why T

The lad, hard pressed, catches at her
blunder.

I never said you were a " nymph " of
anything!'

'Well, something of that sort, you did
indeed; something  unkind !' the great,
sad eyes filling again with tears.

But I really never meant to be unkind
to you, honour bright I didn't,' cries the
lad, blinking down at her with very uncertain
gaze  truth to tell he would not be
-sorry to descend to her level, and, for all his
\Q feet ten inches, to let loose some of his
private vexations in a hearty good howl 
 but I am awfully bothered, and I  I was
angry with some one else, and I didn't
think of what I said. That is the truth.
So just you forget all you heard.'

Sydney sighs, relieved, but not fully
satisfied.

'Then you don't hate me ?'

Xo, no, nonsense ! Certainly not.'

A great breath of growing contentment.


I am glad !' emphatically ; ' and you
won't be cross with me ever any more ?'

'Why should I?'

But you won't?'

Well, I won't then.'

Thank you. Now you may go away,
boy. Good-bye !'

She slips her threepenny-bit of a hand
into one of his huge ones, and makes her
farewell with such a gladdened altered
countenance that he is smitten with remorse
for having vexed such a small
innocent thing. So he stoops down and
gives her a kiss, with a furtive glance
about as if afraid lest a bird on the wing

should catch sight of the harmless peace-offering.


There, run off,' he says, lifting her clean
over the stile with one sweep of his great
strong arms ; ' go back to Taffy. Or no,
look here,' his brows knitting again, ' play
about first a few minutes. And, I say,'
holding her still by a great bunch of
holland frock and red sash, ' never you
mind if people are cross now and then.
Take my advice and don't care about it.
Good-bye !'

He stops to see her safely traverse Levis's
long garden, and when he has started turns
back once more to watch the dark-haired
child passing on through the orchard.

Poor little thing !' he mutters, though
his tone of pity is at variance with the
scowl that gathers on his face again ;
 poor little thing !' and for all the wrath
he may be nursing carries away vdih him a

kindly recollection of the 
maid, whom, spite of all he
was to owe her, he was never in this world
to see again.

CHAPTER lY.

MORE FAREWELLS THAN ONE.

Memory has a trick of placing her peo;s so
irregularly, especially in the brains of the
young, and hanging upon them incidents
so detached from their surroundings that,
while the afternoon recorded still stands
vividly in the foreground of Sydney's young-days,
its sequence of events faded clean out
of mind ; perhaps because changes came
thick and fast just then.

In point of fact, however, when the child
had strayed among the fruit-trees long
enough, according to her calculations, to
dry off the traces of tears upon her cheeks,

and hide these signs of woe from Taffy's
sharp eyes ; and when she returned through
the back door of the cottage, between the
wash-tubs on their settles and the wheelbarrow
poised for the night on what she
called its ' hind legs,' to the flag-floored
room where tea was mostly ready by this
hour, she found, indeed, the meal prepared,
but, for a wonder, left unguarded, while,
taking joyful advantage of this negligence,
a marauding puss from a neighbouring
establishment was seated on the table,
alternately paying its respects to Mr.
Lewis's private dish of bacon, and dipping
her greasy whiskers in the milk-jug, and
the natural guardians of these viands were
standing far doAvn the path by the gate,
talking to no other than Havens, the Guys-wick
coachman.

Papa ! Where's papa ?' cried Sydney,
running forward. ' Is he come for me ?'

An instant silence fell upon the group.
Then nurse, shaking her head at the others,
came forward, explaining that Mr. Alwyn
hadn't come, but her little miss had got
to go home.'

So come along and let you an' me get
your things packed up, my deary,' said the
old woman, in rather a quavering voice
(nurse doesn't like my going,' thought
the child, and coaxed the old, wrinkled
hand caressingly) ; and together the two
speedily collected the small wardrobe,
though TaiFy was so absent-minded she
had to open the bag half-a-dozen times for
articles well-nigh forgotten.

Then she hugged Sydney wonderfully
tight, with sundry little half whispered,
tender ejaculations, and kept close, though
somewhat trembling, hold of the child as
they left the tiny, white-walled sleeping-room,
not loosing her till she was safe

bestowed in her nook by Havens' side, and
ready to start.

John Lewis and his wife talked, low-voiced,
to the man to the last moment.
Maybe they never noticed a small hand
stretched out, anxious for farewell, for
with puzzled aspect, they only drew back,
nodding to her as the pony trotted off, and
for the first time she left them without a
posy in her lap, or a cheery ' Mind you
come and see us soon again, Miss Sydney,
dear.' But nurse seemed crying, and this
tribute of love supplied all other omissions.

I'll tell papa you say I cost nothing to
keep, so he'll let me come back, Taffy
darling!' cried Sydney, and did just wonder,
with ever so brief a pang, when, instead
of the hearty responding ' Ay, that's right,
do !' they only signed a last good-bye, and
all turned slowly towards the cottage, talking
so intently they never saw the smile she

twisted round to spend on them while their
three forms were visible.

But the getting home and the next few
weeks were altogether so strange that these
first signs of something unusual afloat were
blotted out, and so failed to furnish warning
of what came later on as most unwelcome
knowledge.

For her father, Havens said, was away
still ; and he was very ill, so Miss Foster,.
Leonora's governess, further informed her
as soon as she reached home. And Mrs.
Alwyn was away. 'Gone to him?' Miss
Foster was not sure. She supposed so ; very
likely they would hear tomorrow. And
tomorrow, from somewhere, came orders
for the children to travel to London, the
governess nth them.

Long did Sydney remember that journey
principally by reason of the overpowering
hunger she suffered through its tedious

length, and the disappointment that met
her at its end. For cook, for some unexplained
cause, declined to send up a schoolroom
dinner before they started (she said
she ' hadn't time,' though that was clearly an
unkind invention, since, as the carriage
bore the children from Guyswick, the recalcitrant
domestic was plainly visible in
company with two housemaids, a groom,
and a gardener, unblushingly feasting oiF
the early strawberries, to all seeming
jauntily enjoying unlimited leisure and
liberty !), and Miss Foster coldly turned a
deaf ear to suggestions of biscuits by
Leonora ; and at the end of all those weary
miles there was yet no father !

Instead of his presence ensued a most
uncomfortable, dreary month at lodgings,
the governess still in not very amiable
or willing charge  Mrs. Alwyn sometimes
with them, oftener away, always in a mood

varpng between hysteria and ill-temper.
Then, after the transacting, apparently, of
much business  for backwards and forwards
to Yere Street came constantly a
Mr. Russel, brother to Mrs. Alwyn, and a
Colonel Yilliers, similarly related to her
first husband  a move was made in another
direction.

'Are we going home to Guyswick?'
Sydney asked, and was answered by her
mother, wearing the aggrieved air habitual
in these last few weeks, 'Home, child, but
not to Guyswick.'

Then where to ?'

A different house : in Suffolk ; it belongs
to your Uncle Russell.*

And papa will be there ?' kindling into
delighted expectancy.

Of course,' coldly ; ' but  ' hesitating,
looking dubiously at Sydney's eager,
radiant face, and then coming to some conclusion

; ' but listen to me. You must recollect,'
very emphatically, ' he has been
very ill. You must never worry him.
Above all, Sydney, you are not to pester
him with questions about leaving Guys-wick.
You will make him worse, if you
do. Remember that ;' and the child faithfully
promising obedience, never broke her
word, understanding all too soon her need
to kept it.

For when, soon after his wife, Mr.
Alwyn reached St. Clairs it was but the
shadow of himself that appeared  an old
white-haired man, with the icy-touch of
paralysis upon him ; a living encumbrance
that shrank willingly into the background
of the new menage ; a father whom Sydney
could still cling to, most dearly love, most
lovingly tend, but never, never vex by
reference to that recent past which seemed
so sorely to have tried him.

 My poor husband is a mere wreck,'
was Mrs. Alwyn's formula concerning him
to the people who gradually proffered intimacy
with them; first the few professional
families round about the rambling,
town-like village, the vicar at their head ;
next the lesser, but more cautious county
folks.  It is the penalty, I suppose, of
strong constitutions which never know an
ache or a pain all their lives through.
They break up all at once. It's extremely
distressing to be in the way of such cases,
especially when one knows, unfortunately,
nothing can be done to improve them.'

True enough, perhaps; but most certainly
with Mr. Alwyn nothing was attempted.

In a few short weeks he appeared to
have sunk from an important social factor
into a mere nonentity. To be sure he had
his food, his room, his clothing, and as
feebleness increased upon him a decent

VOL. 1. F

body, mother of the young gardener at
 The Dale,' came daily to and fro as a
partial nurse. But Mrs. Alwyn never
altered one single line of her new life to
cheer or console the waning hours of her
husband's. The appliances his ever-failing
state demanded were allowed so
grudgingly as to turn their bestowal into
perfect pain, and the sole bit of brightness
yet spared to the old lawyer's existence
was his child.

That, as he unweariedly thanked Heaven,
never failed him. Whatever slights misfortune
put upon him, her young presence
softened their keenest edge. With her
happy unsuspicious nature by to lean on 
lean on ! it had come to that !  he could
rouse out of his clouded retrospect of pain
into almost cheerfulness, and could bear the
chill indifference of others with full
patience.

With too much patience it seemed to
Sydney, who, during the months they were
getting settled at The Dale, pondered over
and grew utterly puzzled by this state of
things.

Why was her father so little considered
now in the household, so all but deserted,
while her mother glided by degrees into
a circle of acquaintances and occasional
visits, and Leonora's fancies were humoured
to the full ? Why was their house,
smaller by far, but just as well arranged as
Guyswick, furnished, as time went on,
nth continually fresh bits of luxurious
prettiness, while that cheerless north room
upstairs, which Mr. Alwyn rarely quitted,
had such a meagre allowance of even comforts?
And why, again, later on, was the
basket-carriage, purchased in their third
summer at St. Clairs, appropriated solely
to Mrs. Alwyn's daily drives and calls,

f2

never to her father's more obvious needs ?

These and such things past count struck
Sydney's childish judgment as marked injustices,
and once upon a time, when she
had borne with and meditated long upon
them, out of the rebellious fulness of her
heart she ventured to speak.

Mamma, may papa and I change
rooms ?'

'What for, Sydney?'

So that he may sit by the endow and
look over the garden into the fields,
mamma. Now he can only see just the
bank of laurels and the wooden fence.'

I don't imagine your father would care
for gazing out of the window at any view,
Sydney. He is best quite quiet, and in the
room I chose for him.'

But Mr. Dacie ' (the village doctor, who
paid, not oftener than once a month, a
formal call) ' said yesterday he might be

better if lie had a cheerful look-out,
mamma.'

You had no right to be upstairs when
Mr. Dacie called,' said Sydney's mother,
sharply ; * why were you not at lessons ?'

Because Miss Stevens ' (Miss Foster's
less costly successor) 'said she had no time
to hear me yesterday, she was so busy with
Leonora. But may papa have my room,
mamma?'

Honestly, there was no reason why he
should not. But Mrs. Alwyn's nature was
hard to cruelty. Not even helplessness,
that stirs the depths of most true womanhood,
touched her. In a fit of bitter, petty
retaliation on her husband for certain ills
she was compelled to share with him, she
had located him in the dreary north room,
and no softening of mood prompted her to
permit a change.

I would rather you both stayed as you

are, Sydney,' she answered; faltering
put me to some trouble, and  and,'
under her little daughter's clear, astonished
glance the lame excuse halted in utterance,
to a  to an  well,' impatiently, ' to some
expense.'

but, mamma,' with eyes opening extremely
wide, ' would a little money be of
any consequence ? I always thought papa
had  oh, plenty !'

'Had, Sydney, but not has,' was the
emphatic reply, 'for  shut the door and
then come here by me ;' and this being done ;
for, now you are clever and old enough to
understand things, I may as well tell you
why we left Guys wick. Your father had the
fo ' Mrs. Alwyn stopped and substituted
a second word for the one half spoken 
the misfortune to lose all his money, and
now he has actually nothing whatever of
his own.'

Oh, mamma !'

Nothing ! So now you comprehend why
I have to be careful of expenses.'

This was odd news to the child  at first
bewildering. It came like a chill wind on
her hopeful design, and for a minute she
lost heart. Presently a side eddy, an
up-wafting of observant common-sense,
brought consolation.

But, mamma, we must have some
money,' she urged ;  rather a good deal
too ; for our house is so pretty  the
prettiest in St. Clairs, Mr. Dacie said yesterday;
and everything is just as nice here
as it used to be at Guyswick.'

Nonsense, child, you can't remember.
That was ten times the place this is. We
had a dozen servants there, and only three
here !'

But we must have some money to keep
three, mamma ! And isn't it papa's ?'

I have told you rio, Sydney. All that
we have to live on  and it's little enough,'
(the lady spoke conscientiously, for seven
hundred a year  after her delicious experience
of as many thousands  seemed a
dismal downfall)  'is, for the present, mine''
The word shot out like a bolt to its
socket. Somehow Sydney did not require
the reasoning even of her eleven years to
point out that the syllable cut off all prospect
of outlay for her father's benefit.
Instinct told her that. And instinct, which
after this revelation bound her still more

closely to his side, made her now say very

wistfully,

Then he and I,' curious conjunction, as

if both were alien to her mother, ' have to

live off your money and Leonora's ! So,

of course  I see  we ought not to use it.

Did Leonora's father give it all to you,

mamma ?'

Here was a home thrust, uttered in all
innocence, as keen as any age or ability
could have contrived. Mrs. Alwyn coloured
under the steady, waiting gaze, and
was angry with herself for so doing 
angry with Sydney for causing her confusion.


But, however oblique her notions of
honour, she was not going to commit herself
to a direct falsehood ; one, moreover,
which would infallibly be found out by-and-by.
So she answered shortly,

 No ; Mr. Villiers did not give it to me.
I had it from your father when I married
him  entirely for myself, though : to use
as I pleased. Now, instead of that, I have
to keep the whole of you, house and everything,
oiF it. And that is all you need
know or I shall tell you, Sydney. Remember
you are to repeat nothing of all this to
anyone. Never mention your father losing

this property. It is no concern of anyone
but ourselves. Run away now, to your
father, if you like ; Miss Stevens is driving
Leonora to Hedyngham for her painting
lesson.'

But Sydney was tenacious of purpose.
Instead of going, she stood, tracing the
pattern of the table-cover with one forefinger,
revolving all this information, not
seeing her way past it ; till suddenly a
happy thought flashed out of the confusion.


' Mamma !' excitedly.

Well ?' impatiently.

'In the desk that I have had since I
was quite little there is some money. I
don't know who gave it to me, but it's
my own. May I change papa's room with
it?'

You are obstinate, Sydney,' said Mrs.
Alwyn, frigidly.

but may I ? Then papa will get the
last of the sunshine always. Oh, mother,
do say yes !'

Something in the imploring tone, the
anxious expectancy of attitude, atip-toe
with two hands half-opened, waiting to
seize consent, caught Mrs. Alwyn's fancy.
It is hard to rebuff a young voice that
says, ' Oh, mother !' as Sydney said it.
A most rare weakness overcome her, and,
as much to her surprise as Sydney's, she
yielded.

 As you like, then,' she said ; and the contest
was closed by the victor's ruffling the
pleated lace upon her mother's neck with a
fervent, impulsive kiss.

So upstairs the alteration was effected,
swiftly and cheerily. It needed no vast
douceur from Sydney's slender fund to
secure the co-operation of Mr. Alwyn's
attendant, now with him every day ; and

Maria, an active housemaid, entered zealously
into the few hours' extra work, for
the house mistress was no favourite with
her servants ; ' and,' said this one to
her kitchen confidants, 'I'm right, right
glad Miss Sydney's got her way, that I am.
I heard 'em arguing about it till madam
bid her shut-to the door, and I was mortal
afraid she'd only get herself sat on, like
the rest of us. Her ma seems to think she
can harrow rough-shod over everyone's
head, like she do over the poor old gentleman's,
and it's time she was learned different,
1 says.'

By a wide, west, rose-shadowed window
the old lawyer sat now, day after day,
delighting childishly in the change ; and, as
kind Dr. Dacie commented approvingly,
The plan was capital.' Sydney had made
his evenings brighter by half than they
used to be.

Type of herself, sir, of herself,' said the
father, his hand fondly upon her head, and
the Avoids emerged long after from memory,
helping her along a path by no means
smooth.

There was one other episode that
summer wherein her mother's will and
Sydney's had a smart tussle, and again the
child scored a victory.

People began coming to The Dale for
afternoons of tennis, or of music, for
Leonora was eighteen now, and variety was
as the very salt of the young lady's existence.
The mirth of many voices would
often float upwards to the west window,
where Sydney was mostly with her father,
and, though he rarely asked about these
gatherings, they always seemed to bring
an extra sadness to his deeply-lined face.
With so many to and fro, perchance the
neglect came home to him that the throng

never spared him a half-hour's guest. So
Sydney interpreted his sigh one day, and,
with her little warm hand stroking his
white hair, asked 

Isn't there anyone, papa, you would like
to have come and see you some day ? Anyone,
I mean, you used to care for before
we came here ?'

She had hit on the very theme of her
father's thoughts. He answered instantly,
though slowly, for speech was difficult to
him now, and indistinct when hurried.

Yes, there is some one who would come
if I could ask him. I msh I could.'

'Who, papa?'

'You knew him. Do you remember him,
Sydney? Jacob  Jacob Cheene.'

Remember him ! Why, yes, papa. He
used to carry me about at " Stuartss," and
keep sweeties for me in his desk ! I am so
glad you want him. We'll get him here !'

And despite Mr. Alwyn's nervous, ' No,
no, child ; your mother wouldn't have
him !' Sydney lay in wait for the first
opportunity of petitioning for this visitor,
only, however, to be met by most positive
refusal.

It would be no pleasure to your father,
I assure you, Sydney. He can't possibly
desire to see this man. He is not fit to
receive anyone.'

But he said he did really wish for Mr.
Cheene, mamma; and,' piteously, ' he never
has anyone at all !'

You know perfectly well he is ordered
to be kept quiet. You have heard Dr.
Dacie say so over and over again !'

But Dr. Dacie says an old friend's
coming would not hurt him. I saw him
this morning, going past, mamma, and ran
out to ask him.'

You take too much upon yourself,

Sydney,' rebuked her mother, frowning.
Now, if this  old friend ' were not invited,
it would look as if she had negatived the
scheme. The Dacier' ' poor Mr. 7ilwyn '
had had a ring in it she had not liked of
late. There was little love lost between
herself and the warm-hearted doctor, or his
family.

 You had no right to speak of anyone's
coming till you had named it first to me,'
she pursued, irritably ; ' I have no room
for such a visitor. He was only a clerk.
I couldn't have him at my own table, and I
certainly couldn't have him gossiping with
the servants !'

Gossiping nth the servants ! Not fit for
her mother's table ! Her father's one much-desired
friend !

Sydney's temper rose with a vehement
gust. A rush of angry tears filled her
eyes ; by nature she had every generous

impulse that in former times had made
John selwyn such a universal favourite.
Now she could have flashed out at her
mother, said all manner of things more
pertinent than pleasant, and ended, probably,
with a burst of weeping and a dismissal
to bed at the early hour of six p.m.
But she recollected the old man upstairs,
who, she had pledged her childish word,
should have this one pleasure he seemed to
covet, and the restraint of tAvice twelve
years came over her. She swallowed a
great choking and urged bravely on :

 If Mr. Cheene may come, he can have
my room, and I will sleep With the
servants. If Maria may set his dinner
and whatever he wants in the school-room,
I'll wait on him myself. Papa wishes
for such a few things ; may he not have
this ?'

Mrs. Alwyn hated to be persuaded

VOL. I. G

against her inclination ; another more decided
negative was on her lips when 

May he not, mother?' said Sydney.

The word, so seldom used, dominated
her spite of herself. She wavered with a
gesture of annoyed perplexity, and Sydney
went on, sadly :

Hills said, when I told her I was going
to ask you, it would be a pity for papa not
to have just this pleasure, for he didn't
get much 1'

It was naive addenda but it gained her
cause. Mrs. Alwyn could have boxed her
young daughter s ears for putting the onus
of refusal so publicly upon her. No
woman of any age lets go willingly her
mantle of amiability, fit it never so
uneasily.

Oh, the man must come, I suppose, if
you are all so persistent about it,' she said,
testily ;  and, pray, Sydney, don't go leading

people to suppose I msh. to stop your
father's pleasures.'

So, to the indescribable satisfaction of
the trusty old clerk, an invitation in Sydney's
unformed penmanship soon reached
him ; and he needed no reiteration of her
Do come, please, for papa wants you,' to
bring him quickly to St. Clairs.

Arriving on foot from Hedyngham, he
was received by Mrs. Alwyn with a
dignified,

You are very good, Mr. Cheene, to
travel across the country for such a doubtful
pleasure as meeting poor Mr. Alwyn.
A mere wreck you will find him. Kindly
excuse my having many engagements ; I
am taking my daughter out both to-day
and tomorrow. Sydney, I hope, will
attend to you.'

Then the lady bowed herself away, no
whit less patronising than of yore, and

g2

Jacob Cheene, his young hostess hovering
about him in shy delight, was taken upstairs
to meet once more the old employer
from whom he had been parted by such
ill hap.

It was a curious re-union, fraught at
first with speechless pain, when the master,
fallen from his high estate of wealth, mute
now With struggling emotion, clasped
hands with his old clerk, and looked at
him with eyes that seemed to have forgotten
how to be glad I Curious and
grievous. For Jacob Cheene, the once
shy dependent, had to keep calm and lead
the way to cheerfulness, when for thoughts
of the old placid past, and sight of the
shattered life before him, he could have sat
down and cried like any baby !

But that was only for a little while, and
later on it was good to see them both, when
the ailing man's state was recognised by

bis guest ; for then all that was bright and
welcome did the clerk recall and recount,
speaking more and more freely as he found,
with relief, that the lawyer's memory was
a mere blank on some points. So he spoke
of ' Stuartss,' telling how well the house
looked with its rich new tenants, and related
much news, always pleasant, of old townsfolk
; and if a question were put, with a
touch of half-frightened recollection about
some unsafe names, why, those, it so happened,
Jacob Cheene had quite forgotten,
or knew nothing of but so-and so  and
then he led his listener on safer ground
again !

Thus talked the two old men  the
feebleness of one making the other seem
almost youthful  till they must needs
revive old stories of the wondrous music
evenings ; and Sydney saw her father's face
light up, his lingers, white, wasted, nerveless,

stirring to the touch of invisible
strings as Jacob Cheene described that
great finale wherein the first violin had led
such a glorious presto as left them all exultant,
breathless, fit for never another chord
that night !

That was the safest theme they found.
Pleased as a child, the host kept harping
on it, and the next day of Jacob's visit
Sydney found her father's violin (' It
must have been left behind, for some one
sent it to papa months after we got here,'
she explained. 'Wasn't it strange ?' and
Mr. Cheene said it was, very !), and the
much-loved instrument was tenderly laid
upon its master's knees, just, as it were,
for recognition, and leave to be touched by
another, and then the loose strings were
attuned, and the clerk played most reverently
a theme well known  so beautiful it
might have been some saintly funeral song.

But the delight was too vivid. It set
one hearer trembling past restraint. So
the notes, strange at The Dale, were
silenced. Only in cautiously chosen converse
of old times the rest of that day was
passed, and with the morrow Jacob
Cheene bade his master farewell.

Sydney, most constant and attentive
little handmaid to her father's friend, went
with him to the station at Hedyngham,
having secured the pony carriage by a
stroke of genius (brushing Leonora's hair
overnight for an hour, and getting her to
ask their mother its loan !) and together
they talked as he waited for his train.

If ever chance brings you my way,
Miss Sydney, though it doesn't seem likely
to now, you'll be sure to come and see me.*

She promised  Yes; that she would.'

And you'll write to me and tell me
about your father?'

Again ' Yes most willingly.

For,' stopping as they paced the platform
to take one more long look at John
Alwyn's child, with something of a haze
about his own sight  ' for there never was
a kinder, truer, better friend than he was
to me !'

Yes, he is good, isn't he, Mr. Cheene ?'
Sydney breaks in, her lips trembling at this
praise  very sweet, though, alas ! almost
unheard nowadays by her jealous ears ; ' he
is so gentle ; you don't half know how
gentle and uncomplaining he is ! and he
was always  when he was well  good to
everyone, wasn't he, Mr. Cheene ?'

Ah ! that he always meant to be, I'll
stake my life,' returns her companion ; and
more he cannot say, for the train comes
shrieking up, he keeps shaking the little
child's hand till the guard hustles him into
his carriage, and in another minute he

is out of sight and out of questioning.

But that flying visit was a wondrous
pleasure to Sydney's father. He talks of it
morning, noon, and night for days after,
always with delight.

Always but once. An evening when
some fortnight had gone by, and Leonora
and her mother absent in the next village
at some festivity, the two at home sat together
silently watching the sunset, a great
piled-up splendour of golden clouds above
a most peaceful sea of tender-tinted blue.

The old man had been happier, if more
strengthless, than for weeks that day.
But now he suddenly grew restless.
Pointing with shaking hand towards the
brillajit west: 'How shall I  reach it?'
he asked, looking straight forward with a
great anxious yearning ; * won't they 
stop me ?'

Who stop you, father?' cried Sydney,

springing to her feet, to draw his whitehead
tenderly upon her shoulder.

Why, they !' he answered, gazing forward,
though the clear space was only
peopled by phantoms of his disturbed
brain ; * they will ! Oh, how I wronged
them ! But Sydney,' bringing his shaking
hands together with a piteous burst of
grief, ' I never meant to ! Jacob will tell
you  why didn't he tell you when he
came ?  God  God  knows I never meant
to!'

She held him to her most fondly, poor
child, frightened herself, but hushing,
soothing, quieting him ; saying he had
wakened up ; he had been dreaming, and
there, there  he would be better now,
kissing the troubled face into peace again.

But I wronged them,' he kept half
whispering, the dream haunting him still.

Then I'll make it all right, papa,' said

Sydney, ' never fear ! You are only tired.
I have talked to you too much to-day, that's
what's amiss.'

You'll make it right ?' he echoed, looking
up at the child with most touching
wonder and trust.

Yes, that I will, father.'

Dearest and best ! You'll make it
right. My little girl. My only one.
Now God be praised. Help her to  to
make it  right !'

He murmured that again and again, with
interest satisfaction, as he let his head slip
from her shoulder to the chair, and, still
with his face turned westward, fell into
restful slumber.

Sydney sat at his feet, holding his hand
that shivered twice or thrice, till it grew
dusk and towards the time for Mrs. Hill to
return for the night.

The woman for once was late. When

she stole softly in at nine, she found the
young watcher sleeping beside her charge,
and, with an exclamation at her own
tardiness, essayed to wake them both.
One quickly roused out of the land of
dream. The other was beyond that land
gone calmly to a region that mortality
kens nothing of.

CHAPTER y.

A HOME UNHOMELIKE.

With but few beats of his wide season
wing, Time carried Sydney far past that
summer-tide of loss and sadness into a
girlhood lighter if lonelier, freer if less
gladdened with willing duties, than could
have been her fate if her father had lived.
Left now with his memory only, that
she cherished long and truly. Tender
recollection softened his patient, fading life
into something sacred, and the flawless love
between them set an ineffaceable mark on
her succeeding days.

Years that transformed her from child
to woman in no way altered the position
between her mother and herself The fact
of her being; fatherless kindled no fresh
spark of love maternal. She had her place
in the household ; studies strictly prescribed.
For so many hours a day she inhabited
the school-room, the books Leonora had
thumbed and discarded before her, and
from these she was bidden to extract the
wherewithal for her education. An impression
was vaguely circulated that Mrs.
Alwyn and her elder daughter superintended
these studies, and for some few minutes
each morning these ladies would indeed
look in upon the child stumbling along this
discursive road to learning; but as the
elder came always burdened with letters or
domestic accounts, and the younger
occupied the half-hour she was supposed to
be listening to Lectures Franchises in

pencilling enchanting fashions down the
margins of the pupil's themes why, Sydney
could hardly be said to profit much by
their company.

Circumstances truly offered her during
those years ample opportunity for growing
up splendidly illiterate ; list such fate was
averted by the appetite she had inherited
with her name. The meals her scant
library provided she attacked hath. unappeasable
vigour. Her dullest lessons she
invested with a species of romance  threw
into her untrained labours all the enthusiasm
which had no other vent, and
determined not to let a power within her
rust ; but as her father would have desired
to see her, so, and none other, to be.

At which point, however, Mrs. Alwyn's
programme came into collision with her
daughter's, and, widening the gap between
them, earned for the girl that unenviable

adjective wliicli to lier mother's mind marked
her strongest characteristic.

It Alas the summer when Sydney was
sixteen that this noticeable difference of
opinion arose.

She was a lithcj dark-eyed lassie then,
with long, broadly-rippling hair it was a
slander to call black, so many shades of
light lurked among the abundant locks ;
clear-cut features, scarcely pretty as yet,
and a mouth too grave and firm for her
years but ready on occasion to curve into
smiles that lighted the face like sunshine.

Mamma,' she asked one morning, looking
beseechingly across a pile of well-worn
volumes at Mrs. Alwyn checking her
baker's bill, ' what am I to do now I have
finished these? Will you get me fresh
books to learn from, please ?'

Mrs. Alwyn paused, her forefinger on the
last checked item.

sone peck, one and ten, June the 29tli."
What do you want, Sydney? I wish you
would avoid interrupting me. A girl of
your age should surely be able to study
alone.'

So I will,' returned Sydney, promptly,
if I have anything to study. But I really
do know all these books by heart. Or I
mean,' for she was strictly veracious, ' I
know all I can learn in them without a
regular teacher. And it's not much use
my going over them again if I can get no
more out of them; is it, mamma?'

Not much ; you are right there.'
Sydney's hopes rose. ' But, if you have
mastered these, why want more ? Where
Leonora left oiFyou can do the same !'

Oh ! down, down to despairing went
Sydney's hopes ; for well she knew how
grudgingly her mother's purse-strings
opened to any but channels of her own

VOL. I. H

choosing. Her face fell ; her lips grew
pale and rigid with the effort to keep them
from twitching, like a disappointed baby's.

"Two quarterns, sentence. Rolls, sixpence,"
' pursued her mother, settling her
gold eye-glasses firmly on her rather
prominent nose, and resuming accounts as
though this interlude were ended.

In desperate rejection of such fiat,
Sydney slowly mustered courage and
spoke again.

Mamma,' appealingly,  you don't know
how ignorant I am !'

You said just now you had mastered
Leonora's books,' chided Mrs. Alwyn. ' If
1 consider that enough, you should be

d">

you

content. You are sixteen now, so put
aside childish lessons. It will leave you
more time for other things. You play
atrociously compared with Leonora.'

'I am not so clever as Leonora at music,
mamma,' murmured Sydney.

Perhaps not ; but industry improves all
things. Practice on this old piano three
or four hours a day. The bass is nearly
dumb, but that doesn't signify. You may
have a voice in a year or two, then you
can take up exercises. Meanwhile '

'Yes, meanwhile, mamma!' said poor,
disappointed Sydney, most dejectedly.

'Well, amuse yourself somehow. Getup
your own lace, as Leonora does. Cuffs
and collars give you a housemaid look ;
come and talk to callers ; that is an essential
part of a girl's education. Next spring I
can take you out when I pay visits ;
Leonora does not always care to go.
When you are seventeen there will be
garden-parties for you, and so forth.'

At each unfolding of this prospect
Sydney's heart sank lower.

h2

Longliad she been in the background of
this routine. Well sbe comprehended the
frets and galls engendered by an invitation
more or less ; a fancied slight, a two-edged
compliment, one country dame's condescension,
another's hauteur ; silently,
but with the quickness of new-springing
girlish instinct, had she watched the yet
unavailing efforts made to launch her
handsome step-sister on matrimonial seas.
Now she was to put the first step on this
same unsatisfying treadmill ! Alas ! she
had asked bread and been offered a stone !
If Mrs. Alwyn had had tact and tenderness
enough to say, ' I want you by me !'  if
she could have drawn her child's face to
her, crying,  I'm jealous of your books !*
and, with a kiss, perhaps, called her
darling,' why, Sydney's plans would have
remoulded under her will, the coveted

studies played second right joyfully to her
mother's wishes.

But no such note of sweetness summoned
Sydney to surrender. An unquenched
spirit of revolt forced out further petition.

Mamma, I'm not fit for calling and going
out with you '

You Avill be soon, Sydney !' impatiently.


* And I should hate it !'

A shake of the head and an incredulous
smile.

 But, if you do not care to buy me
books, may I borrow them ? The Dacier
will lend me plenty. I've not complained to

them ' hurriedly staying an angry

exclamation; 'but I was just saying I
envied them so many I remembered papa
speaking of; and Mary said I could have
them over or read them with her. And
dashing bravely on  ' Mr. Vaughan was

there,' (the rector at St. Clairs), ' and, when
I said some names wrong, he asked if I
would be too proud to learn with his little
nephews, who have come to live with him.
Would I, indeed ! Oh, mother, let me.
I know papa '  with an unconquerable sob
' would have liked me to get on ; so,'  a
couple of anxious tears splashing on a well-worn
' Markham '  ' so I must !'

'Singularly like "I will'" said Mrs.
Alwyn, focussing the girl with chill disapprobation.
' Well, you have taken your
affairs so pronounced into your own
hands, I can only trust they may prosper
as you seem to expect. My own fear is
they will make you as conceited as
wilful 1'

Thereupon the field was left to the
victor. With this hardly-extorted consent
Sydney sought the offered tutelage of Mary
Dacie and the rector, gaining  plus a wider

ranee of work congenial  two friends than
whom no girl could have desired better,
though, as she saw with covert pain,
neither found favour in her mother's
sight.

For the Dacier, to take them first, though
as simple, kindly a family as all Suffolk
contained, were unpretending and straightforward
to a degree that stamped them
antagonistic to Mrs. Alwyn.

The Dales' new tenants had just arrived
when Dr. Dacie's promising career was checked
by an accident that left him lamed and
unfit thenceforth for any but a most limited
circle of patients, and hereon had ensued
curtailment of income, a lowering of expenses,
a vast change of family prospects.

But,' said the doctor's boys, ' so long
as the dear old governor is all right we
won't mind !' And Mary Dacie had come
back from the costly school to share first

months of nursing, then the labours of the
one Phyllis they could now afford. And
Mrs. Dacie, the load of suspense off her
mind, her husband about again, promising
' the creaking gate hangs longest
on its hinges !' thanked God unweariedly
they were all left to each other still,
and never let a care for wealth that
might have been rankle in her grateful
mind, or plant a wrinkle on her comely
brow. So long as her good man had his
Norfolk cart and steady cob to trundle him
from one patient to another, the wife went
willingly afoot ; and if among her wide
range of cottage calls she outwalked herself,
why, then she would beg a lift, come
smiling home in a tax-cart (' she bowed tome
from the top of a truss of hay !' . said
Mrs. Alwyn once, with hugest scorn), with
air as serene as if in her own victoria, behind
a thoroughbred !

From the first of the Alwyns' residence
at St. Clairs this kind woman had taken to
the youngest of the new comers  the ailing
father's faithful shadow. She was
ready enough to be friendly to all, but
Mrs. Ahvyn kept her steadily at a distance.
A woman of her stamp might penetrate
to the seclusion of the invalid. ' Men in
Mr. Alwyn's state are given to indiscreet
confidences thought his wife, and determined
he should be allowed no opportunity
for such ! So as the lady never
advanced beyond distant civility, and
Leonora was ready to ignore the existence
of people who wore the same bonnet summer
and winter, Sydney was the only one
who grew intimate with the doctor's
family.

When she was still small, she strayed
one day into the big parish church and
stood, inquisitive, before a fine tomb of

lord and lady, with effigies of children
carved on the panel beneath their recumbent
figures, one little maid in quaint
garb bearing a skull in her outspread
palms.

What does sie mean ?' asked Sydney of
Mrs. Dacie,' busy close by with harvest
decorations, and was answered,

It means that child died young, my
dear : underneath it says in Latin, " She
was a daughter most sweet, most dear,
whom to lose was to the father mortal pain,
to the mother as a foretaste of Death's dart
in her own breast." So,' wound up practical
Mrs. Dacie,  don't go home by the lower
houses, my dear. There's scarlet fever
there. If you caught it we might have
you ending just like that little lady with
the skull, you know.'

Sydney pondered gravely a minute, then
turned away.

Except that my mother wouldn't so
much mind !' she said. And the naive
confession planted the little half-shorn
straying firmly in Mrs. Dacie's pitying
regard.

Concerning her other tutor, Sydney
retains of him, from then till now, her first
impression as of some one saintly. A man
he was who, having lived to past his fifth
decade in a sphere of study he passionately
loved, felt then impelled to change this
peaceable retreat for the labours of an
obscure country parish. No rich living was
it Robert Vaughan took, but one poorly
endorsed, with scarce a being for miles
round on his own intellectual level. But
here a grand humility bridged what might
have proved an abyss of difficulty to some.
Regretting solely that his powers were such
a feeble lever wherewith to raise his lowly
flock, he put his soul into his new task 

fell at first into a sea of blunders ; preached
far and away over this people's heads ;
became the prey of the hypocritical, the
laughing-stock of the impudent in his
congregation ; then, after painful labour,
emerged from initial difficulties a parish
pastor, so whole hearted in devotion to the
power he served that St. Clairs ceased its
broad jokes at his high learning, thronged
his church, and vowed if every parson Averse
like theirs, chapels might keep their bolts
across their doors from year to year, they
might !

Him, then, Sydney had to thank for
light in worlds of lore about whose very
entrance she could but have groped unaided
and cheered ; and never did she
leave the rectory without a deepening
reverence for the master whom her mother
and sister rated only poorly. For Mr.
Vaughan's broadcloth was often very

threadbare, and his tact so sadly at fault
that he treated any honest woman in the
parish with the same courtesy he accorded
Mrs. Alwyn's self!

Thus, when Sydney was twenty, her
pursuits had shaped out another barrier
between herself and the other members of
her home. Leonora treated them with
raillery ; her mother as subjects in which
she took no interest. And the sirl nrew
daily, under her own roof, shyer, more
reserved  or, as Mrs. Alwyn put it, more
sullen.

But there was no sullenness in the wistful
curve of a mouth beautifying in womanly
fulness, nor in the glowing depths of those
dark eyes ! Xo sullenness. Rather a
mute yearning after the something lacking
yet in her existence  a silent gathering
force of unused love, fed secretly by
Nature, waiting viih. hidden wealth to

gladden the soul of some 
fellow wayfarer.

The first stir of this something indefinable
may have lent a new charm to the
young face, for just now people found out
how decidedly attractive was Mrs. Alwyn's
second daughter, and the jealous
security which Miss Villiers had hitherto
dwelt in was unpleasantly assailed.

Therefore was it that, after a huge parish
gathering, whither the rector had bidden
nigh the whole village come and keep his
sixtieth birthday, and when Sydney had
been his aide-de-canip from morn till night,
Leonora took her anxieties to her mother
and claimed help.

 Sydney was very active, mamma, yesterday.'


Very.'

And was a great deal noticed.'

'Naturally, Nora dearest, being always

by Mr. Vaughan. Did you observe his
bat? It was a perfect scarecrow!'

Xo, I did not, mamma. Mr. Bruce ' 
a neighbouring vicar  ' asked me who the
charming girl in white was  meaning Sydney.
And the Countess said she had the
prettiest, most natural figure she had seen
for a long time.'

Very polite of the Countess,' coldly.

*And Mr. Duvesne watched Sydney all
the time she played with the school-children
at that idiotic " gathering nuts in
May !" After you brought him to me, he
hardly spoke. I don't think he Hastened
when I talked. I said I was tired, and
would he get me some tea? And,' finished
Leonora, shaking her elegantly-shaped
head very gravely, ' he went quite briskly.
But he never came back ! Instead, he
followed Sydney for an hour with a dish
of heavy cake !'

This was serious.

Mrs. Alwyn seated herself for meditation
surveying the situation uneasily. Mr.
Duvesne, an honourable and reverend scion
of the great Comyngham family, was the
man whom she was ready to move heaven
and earth to gain for a son-in-law  a
husband for Leonora. But it was on the
cards that John Alwyn's daughter might
come most undesirable to the front, and,
once there, hold her own in any company.
The thought that the child, unwelcome
from her first breath, should oust the darling
offspring of her first marriage was
intolerable. The mother, weighted with
uneven burden, puckered her brows, and
bit her lips, and sighed, but saw no light
through her difficulties  quick though she
mostly was at finding the straightest road
to her own advantage.

For once Leonora's unimajOinative

self opened the way out of perplexity.

*It would be awkward, mamma she
said, plaintively,  if this sort of thing
always went on. I should dislike Sydney
and I've no desire to do so. I can only
think of one plan to set things comfortable.'


'Ah!' Her mother looked up, anxious,
not hopeful.

And perhaps that isn't possible. But
would it not be very nice if we could get
Sydney pleasantly away ? Get her  married,
or going to be, so she wouldn't interfere
at all ? Could it be done ?'

Mrs. Alwyn got up and kissed her
daughter rapturously.

Done ! It's the very thing ! An admirably
unselfish thought ! I fancy I see
my way. I believe I know the very man.
I won't lose a day, my love, in attending
to it.'

VOL. I. I

And, surely enough, that same afternoon's
post bore forth the first move in
this newly-suggested family game.

CHAPTER VI.

DELICATE ARRANGEMENTS AFOOT.

The missive calculated to intermeddle with
our heroine's fortunes was compiled with
much thought and care, addressed in her
mother's faultlessly correct handwriting to
one ' Major Villiers, Petersham and ran
thus :

The Dale, St. Clairs,
June 20th.

My dear Alfred,

It was only an hour ago,
when talking nth Leonora, that it occurred
to me your visit to us, postponed these
last two summers, ought surely to take

i2

place this present one. Pardon me for
not writing and pressing this before, but,
as you know, with all the weight of domestic
minutiae, and the cares inseparable from
the charge of two unmarried girls, my mind
is always on the stretch, and I fear I am
sometimes remiss where I ought to be the
very reverse. Your niece and I both hope,
however, that you will show you are not
offended, by coming to us as quickly as
possible. We shall be so glad to receive
you any time you may fix. I may add, if
you need further persuasion, that I have
much to consult you about, much to speak
of, whereon I feel that your advice will be

invaluable '

snow that must mean,' quoth the Major
to himself, taking his cigar from his lips
and meditatively expelling rings of smoke
as he lounged, letter in hand, upon his
balcony, overlooking the calm beauty of the

Thames valley' that certainly must mean
my clever sister-in-law wants to get something
or other out of me. Let me see, the
last time she requested my counsel it turned
out she wanted to stay at my Cousin
Sarah's in Piccadilly, and to get an invitation
for Miss Leonora to the Artillery
Ball. The time before it was Henley

Regatta : and before that Well,' with

a great puff, ' I can't recollect ; but the
good lady's affection isn't disinterested as a
rule. However, I needn't cry out before I'm
hmt. We'll see what's on the carpet now
"Advice "  hem, hem !  " invaluable,"  oh!
here's the place !'

Perhaps it may be as well to name the
point that disturbs me now before we meet.
Candidly, then, it's about Sydney ; and
though she is no real relation to you, yet
as you are associated vdih my own brother
in the trusteeship of her little property

(which charge will end next year, for she
is twenty now), I am sure you will not mind
my troubling you with what concerns
her '

twenty! Is she really?' pondered
Major Villiers, with another pause. ' How
time flies, to be sure ! And what's the
young lady up to, I wonder! Got into
some love-scrape, I'll be bound, as all girls
do. Except my niece Leonora, by the way.
She doesn't seem to hurry herself. Now,
Miss Sydney. At your service !'

 It is really quite a misfortune that all
my younger daughter's strongest characteristics
are at variance with her sister's;
but such being the case, more pronounced
so every year, you can conceive
the difficulty it is to me to do justice to
them both, especially as Sydney has not
that delightful pliability of disposition which
Leonora inherits from her dear father '

" Delightful pliability !" ' [muttered the
Major, his grey eyebrows comically raised.
swell, well, the dead know no wrong, but
poor Hal used to be dubbed as weak as
ditch-water when he was alive. I suppose
this is the same fact put politely.'

I find no fault with her. Pray don't
think I complain of her. She has qualities
which make her much liked by some. I
merely confide to you that I foresee many
embarrassments arising from my two
families, though each so small, especially
when another year makes Sydney mistress
of her six thousand pounds, and leaves me
so much the poorer '

soh, ho! The ladies don't hit it off,
that's it in plain English,' said the Major,
with a superior masculine chuckle ; ' but,
if my sister-in-law thinks I'm going to put
my finger into that description of family
pie, she's very much mistaken. Never was

able to argue with a woman in my life.
They trip you up with the deuce and all of a
smile, or half-a-dozen tears, and then what's
a fellow to do ?'

 I am so anxious for my children's welfare
that perhaps I harass myself unnecessarily;
but, looking to the future, I can see
my little home peaceful with your brother's
child alone, not (alas !) peaceful with her
and Sydney. Under these circumstances,
I am sure you will quickly see in what I
am trusting as a remedy '

'No, that I'll be hanged if 1 can!'
muttered the Major, but was quickly
enlightened.

In marriage '

Oh !' groaned the gallant officer ; ' what
schemers these women are !'

And here I think you and I may
possibly arrange something to our mutual
satisfaction '

Why,' stammered the lady's confidant,
colouring up to the roots of his grey hair,
she doesn't mean to offer her daughter tome,
does she ?'

 For if your son Rupert ' ('  h !') ' is
still free and feeling any inclination to
settle in life, I frankly tell you he would
be a most acceptable son-in-law '

The Major heaved a sigh of relief, looked
grave, and read on very seriously after
this.

'You, and he through you, knowing
every circumstance connected with our
family affairs, would require no explanation
of past events, which in itself would
be a great relief to me. Sydney, if the
marriage were arranged, would, I trust,
settle happily into a suburban life. There
would be little likelihood of her returning
to her unfortunate father's neighbourhood,
which I have always felt most undesirable.

Such a terrible collapse as his may even
yet be remembered there. And, lastly,
Mr. Rupert would secure a wife and an
immediate dower, neither of which, I think
is inferior to what he may have the choice
of in general society. Think this all over,
my dear Major, and if your judgment
agrees with mine, that the match is one to
be wished, come down and talk it over
with me. With 7??. only, of course. With
Sydney's temperament it would be quite
unwise to let her have any suspicion of
our plan. She has a great tendency to
independence of action, but perhaps you
gentlemen might like her none the worse
for that. Looking impatiently for your
reply, with Leonora's kind love and my
own,

Ever, dear Alfred,
Yours very truly,
 Helen Alwyn.*

 " The truth, the whole truth, nothing
but the truth !" Now I wonder if this is
any or all of that,' mused the Major, treating
himself to the unusual luxury of a
second cigar, to assist his cogitations.
'The worst of women is, they're so confoundedly
crafty.'

Then he began his letter again, hummed
and hated over the commencement, underlined
with his massive gold pencil the fact
that Sydney's mother had no fault to find
with her, put a double mark under the
sum mentioned as coming into the girl's
control so speedily, emphatically scored
the admission of what would be a great
relief to Mrs. Alwyn, with rather a grim
smile, and ' No question she means that !
But I don't know if we ought to blame
her. At any rate, it's all done with long
ago !' and finally, with head well back, and
steadfastly sky-gazing, he ruminated long

over ' if Rupert is still free and feeling an
inclination to settle in life.'

Rupert, the one son the Majors brief
married life in India had bequeathed him,
was still free  rather more free, in fact,
than his father desired. Settling in life
would be a capital thing for him ; the
most admirable check that could be devised
on certain tendencies the young man
was exhibiting for going a faster pace than
his means could afford. The salary of a
clerk in the War Office (Mr. Villiers' vocation,
for years before he had entirely refused
to follow his father's ; ' going out to be
shot at wasn't in his line,' he said) was not
calculated to keep up fashionable bachelor
apartments, membership of a select club,
a growing circle of town friends, and a
taste for amusements, desirable or otherwise.
If the allurement of a young wife,
a home, somewhere out this way,' thought

the Major, who was fond of his riverside
lodgings, and had vainly endeavoured to
entice his son into sharing them  if these
could attract him into the bondage of
domesticity, why, then good luck attend
the business, and bring it to a speedy conclusion.


It would finely ease my mind, I know,'
thought the father, a vision of such another
sheaf of bills as he had lately paid off for
his son floating ominously before him.
And the boy has got his own income : not
large, but I'd double his allowance  put a
little on besides, perhaps; he  they  might
as well have it now as wait till I'm dead
and buried. And then this child, Sydney,
will have  have  ' (mentally doing a sum
in division) ' somewhere between two and
three hundred a year. Oh !' with a profound
shake of the head that seemed to
clench the matter, ' Rupert might indeed

go farther and fare worse. I'll take the
11.40 up and have a talk with him.'

Which conclusion reached, the Major
stepped in-doors, changed his matutinal
alpaca for the soberest of well-cut tweeds,
informed his landlady, widow of an old
Scotch sergeant, that he should lunch in
town, sauntered by the waterside to Richmond,
over the bridge, and off via Victoria
to the club where he was likely to find his
son discussing chops and bitter ale at one
o'clock.

And, there, sure enough at his usual
table in the corner of the handsome
 Junior Midlands ' apartment, sat Mr.
Rupert Villiers, but seemingly not in the
best of humours.

His meal, only half finished, was pushed
aside. His first pint of AUsopp already
consumed, a second was being uncorked
by a waiter as the Major drew near. So

pre-occupied was he in twirling the end of
his long brown moustache, and staring at
rather than studying the Twines supplement,
that his father approached unnoticed,
and hadst down in front of him
before he recognised with a start who was

nigh,

Why, you want a whiff of fresh air, my
lad,' said the Major kindly, reaching over
the table to shake hands. ' London in
this hot weather is a tease. Why don't
you run down and dine with me oftener ?
Eh?

Perhaps a perfectly candid answer to
this would have been awkward, or, so
suddenly questioned, Mr. Rupert had no
satisfactory excuse ready. Anyhow, he
returned only an uneasy laugh, and a disjointed
assurance that he was all right 
didn't feel the heat ; only happened to have
a plague of the headache this morning.'

Then that won't cure it said the Major
pushing aside the ale. No, thanks; I
won't take it myself. I stick to my rule.
Nothing before dinner, very little after. I
learnt dietetics in India, you know, and
advise you to profit by my experience.
But you look out of sorts '  anxiously, for
the old officer was very fond of his one son.
Are you getting late hours ? Is there
extra work on at the office ?'

Oh, no ! nothing particular doing
there,' returned Mr. Rupert, pulling himself
together under his father's scrutiny, and
judiciously answering the last clause of
his question. ' And I'm all right, I assure
you. What brings you up to-day ?'

Now the Major, like many a brave man,
was no social tactician. He had a trick
of going straight at his mark, which sometimes
discomposed his son amazingly  the
present occasion to wit. Taking Mrs.

Alwyn's letter from his pocket, he tapped
it, address downwards, with some solemnity,
and pushing aside cruets and covers,
leant forward with 

Here's what brought me. Something
rather serious I want a few words with
you over. The sooner the better.'

At these portentous sentences Mr.
Rupert Yilliers changed colour. More than
one spectral bill not included in the last
over-heavy schedule he had submitted to
his father reproached his memory. A
horrible dread stirred within him that a
certain florist's account might have got
round to the Major, for he had been ass
enough that season to beleaguer with
bouquets a fair cantatrice who never so
much as wasted a thought on where her
Mareschal Niels and lilies and ferns came
from so regularly, nor had ever repaid his
costly offerings with a single special smile.

VOL. I. K

A fear shot through him that a transaction
involving an I U to one young Tufted
a friend the Major cared little for 
might have reached paternal ears ; and a
guilty recollection overcame him that he
had as good as given his word never again
to meddle with a fascinating game called
snap.'

All these and many another qualm gave
the young man a bad sixty seconds, and
when the letter was passed over to him,
with a low but emphatic, ' Just read that
and let me hear what you have to say
about it,' the fingers with which he opened
Mrs. Alwyn's epistle positively shook
with apprehension. But the writing and a
rapid glance at the signature relieved him
unspeakably. The whole quickly scanned,
he breathed freely again, though a new
species of dilemma was now upon him. The
careless laxity of his life en gar con so unexpectedly

stormed, all the charms of that
unfettered condition shone forth bewitchingly.
All the entanglements he had just
now quaked at modestly betook themselves
to the background. He felt, if not
opposed to the project, in no way enthusiastic
over it, and showed as much by the
shrug with which he refolded and returned
the letter to his father.

I've only a quart er-of-an-hour,' he said
taking out his watch. ' Suppose you
walk my way with me, sir;' and arm in
arm, the two descended the club steps and
betook themselves towards Pall Mall.

Well ?' said the elder man, impatiently,
before they had gone many paces  his
son's coolness nettled him. The matter
had appeared to him so supremely important,
he shouldn't have taken the offer of
a pretty girl and six thousand pounds
so calmly in his young days ! ' Well,

k2

Rupert, what do you think of it all T

I think, sir, it is very kind and complimentary
of my aunt to wish to bestow
on me the daughter she evidently Lavishes
be rid of!'

 Now, my boy, no joking ! The letter
is frank enough, and we'll treat it courteously,
if you please. I've no doubt the
situation is awkward. Second marriages
always lead to something of the sort.
But do you feel any inclination to assist in
altering it? That's the question.'

*Well, you see, sir,' demurred Mr.
Rupert, ' I knoAV literally nothing of this
little Sydney. I daresay she mayn't belittle
now, but she was when I was at St.
Clairs for a couple of days five years ago.
Just a slip of a girl, no particular beauty,
especially beside Leonora. Rather awkward,
and very shy !'

Oh, she'll be altered, she'll be altered I*

interposed the Major, who had pondered
himself into vehemently desiring the
match ; ' I shall see her before you make
the least sign, you know, and I promise
you 1 won't send you a- wooing unless I
like the look of the fair lady. Her father
was a handsome man, perhaps she has
orown like him. And then there's the
money to consider. Of course we must
tie it to herself, but a wife with an income
of her own is an excellent thing for a
young man, let me tell you. You'd best
not turn your back on a chance you may
never get again. Master Rupert. It
appears to me you treat this proposal too
oiF-handedly?'

'And it appears to me,' returned his
son, laughing outright at the elder man's
evident eagerness, ' that you are determined,
my dear sir, on this young person and
myself becoming husband and wife ! May

I ask if you've definitely determined on our
wedding-day ?'

Now, nonsense, nonsense, lad,' said the
father. * I'm neither such a donkey nor
despot ! I'm only putting the matter
before you as it's my duty to do. Why,
Sydney is only twenty. If you see her
and take a fancy to her, you'd have a year
to go love-making, off and on at your
leisure ; and I should think,' with a proud,
paternal look at the young man, who was
certainly good-looking, though the general
effect of his appearance might owe a good
deal to his tailor  ' I should think you
could get her to say ' yes ' in that time.
Then we could have the marrying, take a
little house up Richmond way, and I've
got a few pounds I could square your last
bachelor bills with, and you'd have as good
a prospect in life as I ought to expect, or
you ought to desire. So what shall it be ?

Shall I-write back and chime in with your
aunt's idea, or shall I give the whole concern
the cold shoulder T

The Major had put the advantage of the
position very neatly. A glimpse in a
corner flower shop of a ravishing arrangement
of ferns and gardenias ordered by
himself the day before, and a significant
salutation wafted to him by his friend '
Tufter, who just then whisked by in a
hansom, recalled sundry very present
and irksome obligations to Mr. Rupert.
The governor was a good old liberal soul,
he thought, vith some compunction. And
a sear, if he drew in directly, would give
him time to get quit of some of his
least mentionable debts out of his own income.
He'd better make a virtue of
necessity, then !

You and my aunt are a pair of conspirators,'
he said, nth an air of  Well, to

please you, I'll give in !' ' So go on your
visit of inspection, sir, by all means. But,
whatever you do, commit me to nothing
yet by so much as the shadows of a
hint. If you drop a line when you're
coming back I'll meet you and hear
your report. There's the workshop. This
is my door, good-bye, sir.'

And the Major, well pleased with this
first step of the negotiations, went back to
Petersham and wrote oiF to his sister-in-law,
fixing Monday in the following week
for his visit to St. Clairs.

CHAPTER VII.

IN THE Domestic CAMP.

Following Iiis letter in due course, the
Major arrived at The Dale on what he
termed his reconnoitering expedition, and
being in most matters appertaining to the
opposite sex no more than what his son,
With the advanced Wisdom of a younger
generation, would have called ' an amiable
old muddle-head!' he failed at first to discover
where lay the pressing need to alter
the household by marrying or any other
change.

But that was only in the earliest hours

of his reception, at the very onset, when
Mrs. Alwyn was all graciousness, tempered
with a slightly nervous anxiety as to how
her overtures would be received and would
prosper ; when Leonora was posing as justa
slightly ill-used damsel, much tried,
but far too truly sweet to turn ill-tempered
on any provocation whatever ; and when
Sydney lingered more than ever in the
back-ground, with a proud and withal sad
reserve, begotten of her mother's injunction
just as their guest was coming  ' Remember
Major Villiers is no relation of yours,
my dear. He is a kind-hearted man, and
would very likely be inclined to make no
difference between you and Leonora ; but
recollect he is her father's brother, not
yours.'

A very few days, however, under the
same roof somewhat lowered this stilted
style of intercourse. Li that time Major

Yilliers took observations very diplomatically
; made mental note of a bright,
eager-eyed intelligence that never missed a
single point in the old campaign stories lie
delighted in telling, though his own young
relative, pleating her pretty fineries, or
twisting her many rings about, would put
in her ' how horrid !' or ' how charming !'
at exasperatingly wrong intervals ; brought
to bear upon the case a theory of his own
concerning the impossibility of perfect
amity existing between Celt and Saxon ;.
setting Sydney down as the type of one,
Leonora of the other, and secretly bestowing
his preference on the first ; and decided
to his own complete satisfaction that the
assumed element of discord in this household
would become a tuneful enough keynote
in that other new home he had set his
mind on rearing.

At which point he offered to Mrs.

Alwyn the opinion she had been awaiting
with profound impatience.

They were sitting, these two, discussing
-afternoon tea under the shade of a splendid
lime upon the square of lawn which,
bordered by a tall hedge of yew, parted
The Dale from the dusty high road. With
judicial gravity, and a silence betokening
-something important at hand, the Major
had stirred his beverage, melted an extra
lump of sugar, watched the small seething
collection of bubbles thereupon gather and
disperse, and imbibed the contents of his
cup ; after which, setting it down, folding
his arms, and crossing his legs, he said
very deliberately  for hasty speech or
manner would, he conceived, be derogatory
to Rupert and himself, ' Well, Helen,
do you know, on the whole, I'm inclined to
think that arrangement you mentioned in
your letter to me a very sensible one?

Taking one thing vdih another, I might
almost say a desirable one. If the young
folks find it to their mind, I really mayas
well say at once I shan't stand in their
way.'

Mrs. Alwyn felt as though, this first
step gained, the rest would surely follow in
its train. With a smile intended to convey
the gratification of a mother and the
gratitude of a sister-in-law, she answered,

Now, how very good that is of you,
Alfred. But I knew that though even
you cannot tell the wear and tear of nerves
brought about by constantly dwelling on
two daughters' futures, yet I was sure you
would enter into my cares. I was positive
you would see no indiscretion in my writing
as I did ; that you would help me if
you could. Thank you,' laying her hand
effusively upon his arm. ' Oh, thank you
so very much !'

'swell, there,' said the gallant Major
scarcely at ease under such a gush of
affectionate eloquence ; ' let's wait and see
what you have to be thankful for first.
You must bear in mind I can't force
Rupert's inclinations any more than you
can force Miss Sydney's.'

'And that would be quite impossible!'
put in Miss Sydney's mother, with emphasis.


And right enough it should be so, I've
no doubt,' returned the old officer. ' I've
often heard that any halter's sure to hurt
if you don't slip your head through of your
own free will ! Still, I must say fairly that I
like this youngest girl of yours well enough
to wish for her for Rupert. Perhaps as
I've told you this without mincing matters
you won't mind explaining how it
is she gets over the traces here at home ?
How she and Leonora contrive to fall out ?

Forewarned forearmed. Eh ? She doesn't
look to me an unmanageable lass.'

Unmanageable ! oh, dear no !' answered
Mrs. Alwyn, hastily  that term repeated
might scare Mr. Rupert. 'Pray, don't
think I ever intended to convey such a
thing. She is simply the complete opposite
of Leonora and myself To put it as
briefly and expressively as possible, a
thorough Alwyn. All our differences, all
our difficulties lie in that. Nothing: short
of living with us would open your eyes to
what that means. But, of course, I naturally
strive after Sydney's happiness, and I
confess I see it most directly, most clearly
in a suitable marriage.'

And you're not anxious to make Miss
Leonora happy in the same way ?' said the
Major bluntly, but a trifle puzzled. The
same end attained by the absence of either
daughter he couldn't understand why

seniority should not have priority in
matrimonial honours. ' There's no question
about 'my niece being uncommonly handsome.
You don't intend her for an old
maid, do you ?'

The gentleman was nearer the root of
the matter than he suspected. Mrs.
Alwyn coloured and mounted her gold eyeglasses,
as she had a trick of always doing
if confused.

An old maid ! Oh, dear no !' she returned,
looking down and flicking bits of
lime blossom oiF her skirts.  There is no
likelihood of that, indeed. Leonora has
had more than offer from  or, well, as she
declined them, I need not say from whom.'
Thus the lady sailed away from explanation
of these suitors' ineligibility. ' And
now,' lowering her voice as Leonora
appeared in the distance, ' just at this time
there appears a great probability of her

having a proposal which I think would
fulfil my best expectations for her. You
have heard me mention the Coming


'What, the people at Oakleigh Place?
The Earl's family you were speaking about
yesterday? You surely don't mean my
niece is going to marry one of them ?'

Gently, my dear Major. We must not
think, or even speak positively about it.
Only I felt I must admit you to my confidence
thus far. It's the second son : the
Honourable Edward Duvesne  Honourable
and Reverend, for he is rector of Oakleigh
too. It's the family living  eight
hundred a year. So no doubt he was put
in the church on purpose to get it.'

I shouldn't have thought an earl's
second son would have needed that,' commented
the Major. ' I thought the 
were a wealthy family.'

VOL. I. L

Are, but not were,' explained Mrs.
Alwjm. ' This earl has only just got the
title, you know. The late one was his
cousin, and was expected to marry some
day, quite up to the time of his sudden
death. So these people  they used simply
to be the Demesnes, ' Mr. and Mrs,' not
even honourable  were really, considering
their birth, not at all rich, and were glad
enough to secure eight hundred a year
for their son. The old rector died just
after the late earl, most conveniently,
and Edward Duvesne read himself in at
Oakleigh a few Sundays before his father
came down to the place last spring.'

And you say this gentleman is making
up to Leonora?'

He certainly seems very much attracted.
We have attended his little church
lately  Leonora and L Sydney always
finds something to keep her to this place.

Oakleigh is less than a mile off, the quaintest
little place, and so comfortable ; not
half so draughty as our larger, rambling
building, where I get neuralgia dreadfully.
Mr. Duvesne sent us hymn-books by the
clerk. He has called on us two or three
times, and often walks half-way home by
Leonora. Of course, I have called at the
Place, and the Countess has left cards
here. If nothing  if no one interferes, I
believe it will end in my dear child entering;
the Coming-ham circle. I think that
would be a marriage we should have every
reason to congratulate her and ourselves
on. Lord Comyngham is the seventh earl,
and his eldest son is single-oX!

Mrs. Alwyn dropped her glasses and
drew up her still handsome figure, all her
passion for position, once so grievously
humiliated, ringing out in her last words :
such a dazzling vista opening out for her

l2

beautiful daughter, no wonder she undertook
to rough-hew from the path any
obstacle between her and the brilliant
goal.

Brilliant, indeed ! To the Major it
seemed rather impossibly so ; but it was
not his place to damp her by doubts, so
threading his Away back through these
enchanting prospects to the point whence
he had started, he rather provoked his
sister-in-law by asking calmly 

Will you excuse me for being very
stupid, but for the life of me I can't see
why you shouldn't settle off Leonora and
her ' honourable and reverend ' before
troubling yourself about little Sydney.
She doesn't interfere nth the illustrious
suitor, does she ?'

Mrs. Ahvyn bit her lip and tapped her
foot upon the grass impatiently. These
elderly men were frightfully dense  what

the natives of St. Clairs would call 
!

To admit Leonora the least fraction
jealous was not to be thought of; so with
the self-abnegation demanded occasionally
of maternal schemers she took the weak
point over as a private grievance and
answered accordingly.

Of course, Sydney doesn't wish to interfere.
I quite acquit her of any such
design. But you can see she is liable to
be present whenever this gentleman calls.
Is apt to be put forward by injudicious
friends of her own, as she was only the
other day by those people named Dacie,
and the Rector, at a sort of village feast.
I can tell you how presently. And
excuse me for sapngit, dear Major Villiers,
but a woman like myself, who has seen
much of the world, knoAVS how soon a
man's fancy is distracted, what trifles

sometimes upset the chances of life-long
happiness. I felt I should never forgive
myself if I didn't smooth our Leonora's
way as much as possible ; and I felt, too,
that I was more than justified when at
the same time I was doing my best to promote
Sydney's welfare. Oh ! I'm afraid
this all seems very perplexing to you, a
man ; but I do hope you believe and
trust me to be doing my best as  a
mother.'

It was rather perplexing, certainly ; but
while the lady was explaining and counter-explaining
herself out of the maze, and
rather obviously getting her guiding
threads into confusion, the Major had
mentally made an honest short cut, and
reached what happened to be precisely the
right conclusion.

Fact is,' he thought, ' she makes fish of
one and fowl of the other, as old Blister

would have said. That's about the long and
the short of it ;' and, metaphorically giving
himself a pat on the back for his acumen
in finding this out, he got up to close the
conference with a polite speech.

'Oh, yes, yes! Naturally you do your
best all round, Helen, and certainly I msh
both your young folks good luck. And I
won't quarrel with the part of your plan
which offers one of them to my boy. Let
me see. Rupert is pretty well tied to the
desk, but he will have two or three clear
days in August May I tell him to run
down then?'

Certainly ! Before if he like. From
the Saturday evening to Monday morning.
We will send to meet him, and have him
driven back for the seven o'clock train from
Hemynford.'

I'll tell him, then, and you'll soon have
him over. And I'm not to give a hint of

what lie comes for to my dark-haired friend
yonder?' nodding towards Sydney, who
had just entered the garden from the
village.

 Xot for a moment. Xot a word,
please.'

So be it. This is a pretty place, this
Dale,' looking at the white-gabled house,
ivy up the front, clematis over the porch,
panelled doorway, and mullions windows ;
how came your brother to own it ? It
looks as though it should belong to some
squire of these parts rather than be a
loose bit of property to a man from
another county.'

It was once one of the Comyngham
residences,' explained ]airs. Alwyn : ' a
Duvesne lived here for generations, I
believe. But the last earl's grandfather
lost heavily at cards, and I've been told
that The Dale changed hands one night

over the whist table. Then it had two or
three different owners, and came into
the market when Wilhani was living at
St. Edmund's : so as he got it cheap he
bought it. You know he is always ready
for a bargain by road, river, or rail.'

And mostly makes a good thing of it, I'll
warrant,' said the Major ; ' well, it came in
handily for you. Suits you admirably.
It's lucky Mr. Russell has not been tempted
by a good offer to sell it over your
head, for you would hardly like to leave it
now.'

Xot under present circumstances,' replied
Mrs. Alwyn, with a glance at Leonora
among the flower-beds ; ' things have
been too depressed about here for WilHani
to sell profitably. But I've made him an
offer for The Dale myself, and I hope he's
likely to close with it. Of course it will
lessen the few thousands I shall have left

to live on when Sydney takes her own. But
I think it a desirable investment for me and
Leonora.' Then after about ten seconds'
pause, ' The Comynghams, I believe, are
anxious for it.'

And you mean they may have it with
the young lady ; if not, go without it !
Well devised,' laughed the Major ; but Mrs.
Alwyn, vexed with herself for shoAdng her
cards so plainly in a boastful moment,
hurriedly changed the subject.

 Say nothing to Sydney of her little
fortune at present, please. There is no
need to explain till she is nearer of age ; if
on the eve of marrying, so much the
better. I have thought it over, and I am
sure this is best for all of us, Mr. Rupert
included.'

The Major could only bow acquiescence.
For his own part he would have
preferred the girl to know her pecuniary

value before he sent his son a-courting.
But women ought to understand each
other best ; they had a circumlocutory way
of oroino; to work over trifles he couldn't
pretend to understand, and therefore had
best not interfere nth. So contented,
on the whole, with his confabulation, he
joined the young people, while Mrs. Alwyn
with a satisfied smile went in to dress for
dinner.

Much of gardeners, either of you ?' he
questioned, noticing, as he neared them, the
great delight on Sydney's mobile face, as
she bent over a lovely half-opened rose,
bent till it met her cheek in what seemed a
mutual caress ; ' it's fine exercise for those
that like it.'

Oh, will you persuade mamma so ?'
cried Sydney. ' I think it's work that
people in the country ought to be allowed,
don't you. Major Yilliers ? Somehow one

feels the better for the very touch of a
flower,' and again she stroked the exquisite
petals which she had watched day by
day from their first unfolding.

' And are you of the same way of thinking
?' the Major asked his niece, who
answered, gracefully sheltering her face
from the sun's slanting raysmth a big straw
fan,  Oh, yes, I constantly feel a great
deal the better for them, uncle, especially
when they match one's dress so deliciously
as this darling does !' and stooping, her
taper fingers dexterously broke off the last
lovely ' La France,' and transferred it to
the folds of lace meandering down her
delicate pink robe.

Sydney almost visibly winced, crimsoned,
and without a word turned off to the
house. Leonora looked after her with an
amused smile and a little shrug.

Now 1 suppose this was one of her

pets, SO I've offended her,' she exclaimed.
She is so odd. I do wish Sydney could be
more like us !'

The same song her mother sings'"
thought the Major, and whether by
accident or by design of Mrs. Alwyn to
demonstrate the difficulties she had complained
of, he heard during the next few
days a great deal more in the same strain.

May I appeal to you, dear Major
Villiers,' begged his hostess, as soon as he
appeared at the breakfast table next
morning,  as quite one of ourselves, will
you say whether her sister's wishes, or, I
may add, the wants of the household, or an
engagement of her own making, a fulfilment
of her own whim, should take precedence
with Sydney. Perhaps she Aill
pay your verdict the compliment of attending
to it.'

Well, all depends on what the disband

the want, and the whim may be,' returned
the Major, rubbing his hands and
endeavouring to give the matter a jocular
turn, with a genial good-morning all round.
Details, if you please, ladies !'

Leonora particularly wants something
from Hemyngford. / ask Sydney to drive
in for it. Site prefers staying at home to
practise a so-called singing-class at the
church at noon.'

'Well, with a little accommodation
couldn't all be managed?' said the Major ;
the man of war was a most thorough-going
man of peace.  Couldn't the singing-class
be put off, or the drive take place in the
afternoon ? One or the other, surely.'

I require my commission executed
before luncheon,' said Mrs. Alwyn, very
positively, ' I should think the class can
be put ois, if Sydney chooses.'

Mamma,' said the girl, speaking as if

distressed at the altercation she was driven
to, 'you know Mr. Vaughan fixed noontime,
it is too late for me to alter, if I
wished.'

Then send and ask Mary Dacie to take

it;

Her father is not so well. She has her
hands so full. I should be so glad if I
might ease her.'

At my expense ?' said Mrs. Alwyn, in
deeply aggrieved tones. 'Very well,
Sydney; if you will not alter your mind to
oblige me I cannot compel you. Tell Hills'
to the servant just entering with the postbag
 ' the pony will not be wanted this
morning. Leonora, darling, give your
uncle a cutlet. Sydney, if it is not too
much trouble, vnll you pass Major Villiers
the toast ? You will excuse my opening
this, Avill you not?'

And the ruffled hostess proceeded to

disinter the correspondence of The Dale
from its leathern receptacle ; turning out,
as luck would have it, among papers, circulars,
and post-cards, one communication
that proved a fresh bone of contention.

from that old man again,' Mrs.
Alwyn exclaimed, tossing a letter over to
her younger daughter. ' My dear, dear
Sidney, will you never oblige me by letting
that correspondence drop?' (Sydney
stooped over her coffee, answering nothing,
her letter held tight beneath the table) ,-
Can you not, knowing my distinct desire,
leave this unanswered, and so put an end
to what I disapprove ?'

Sydney's head drooped lower, and the
painful colour deepened on her cheeks.

No, mamma, I cannot,' she said, her
voice low, but quite clear, and then after a
feint of swallowing her food, she got up,
with a little apologetic gesture, and left the

room before the tears, gathering in her
eyes, had time to fall.

The sort of thing I constantly have to
contend with !' said Mrs. Alwyn, plaintively.
 But don't let it spoil your breakfast.
Major. Take an egg''

Uneasy at all this electricity in the
domestic atmosphere, Major Villiers essayed
to carry off some of the over-charge by
a quiet talk with the rebel, and to that
intent, catching sight of her an hour
after at the furthermost end of the laurel
hedge, wiring a roving honeysuckle to a
rustic arch, he followed her there, and
with a fatherly pat on the shoulder, and
just a touch of reproach in his manner,
asked 

Well, now, young maiden mine, and why
couldn't you manage to put off other
friends and please that mamma of yours
this morning ? You'll forgive an old man

VOL. I. M

for lecturing, won't you, but people of one
house should try to be of one mind, my
child?'

At the kindly expostulation, the gentle
tone, Sydney dropped her coil of-wire and
turned impetuously round.

I do wish to. Major Yilliers, and I do

try. But somehow nothing seems to

answer ! I seem born to worry mamma.

Ever since I was quite little it has been

the same. Leonora has been her delight,

her comfort. I, her annoyance, her

trouble. Just as Leonora is so beautiful

and I am not,' (her listener turned his

glance full on the supple young form,

the flashing hazel-grey eyes, the red

sensitive lips, the well-poised head nth

coil after coil of dark locks twisted round ;

and quoth he to himself,  you're not sofar

off that to my mind, my dear') 'so

Leonora has naturally known how to

please in everything. I,' she let fall her
hands, extended in sorrowful eloquence,
in nothing !'

The soft-hearted Major felt very uncomfortable.


 Oh, come,' said he, soothingly, ' you
are only feeling sore and unhappy now.
Miss Sydney '

I msh you would call me Sydney,' she
interrupted.

Well, Sydney, then ; so you see things a
little crookedly perhaps. If you could
have yielded this morning, matters might
not have looked so gloomy. Xow, would it
not have been better to neglect outsiders
even, and done those commissions for your
mother ? Particular ones perhaps, as she
appeared to want them so much.'

Particular !' Sydney stopped as they
paced out of sight of the house now down
the shrubbery. And her look of distress

u 2

vanished in a gust of sudden laughter.
Particular ! oh, very indeed ! I should
have saved '  calculating on her fingertips
 ' on sugar, seven farthings ; on buttons
 let me see, pearl  one dozen, I should
think three halfpence ! Yes, threepence farthing
would have been the valuable result
of my drive. Now, to spare mamma's and
Leonora's pockets to that huge extent, do
you say T ought to have run off from what
I had promised to do, and left my best
friends in the lurch ?'

The Major evaded the question, preferring
to ask who those best friends were,
and Sydney, going, gave him an
account of all the Dacier', all the Rector's
goodness to her, ending with, ' If it were
not for them I should be fifty times more
ill-tempered and incorrigible ! Knowing
what I am, think what that means, and
just consider whether I ought not to work

for them even at the appalling loss of
threepence farthing !'

The Major was old-fashioned enough to
be clear-headed on some points.

I do think, my dear,' he said, simply,
' there's one thing you plainly ought not
to do. That is, show up your mother's or
Leonora's small economies, which I suppose
they feel bound to make, for the sake of
ridiculing them.'

All Sydney's nerves slackened under the
altered tone. Reddening \ith shame,
tears gathered thickly on her long black
lashes. She moved on very slowly.
Then

I beg your pardon,' she said, quite
humbly. ' I know I ought not to have

done it. But  but ' shaking off the

twinkling drops, and clasping her hands
very tight behind her. ' I do get so beside
myself, so weary of it all ; for this morning

is only just like most mornings. I am
always clumsy, always unlucky  at home.
Whatever I arrange interferes with something.
Not a single taste have I that
mamma approves of. Where she is lavish
I should never spend. Where she is 
careful, I am  not ! If I could ever please
her really, ever make her fond of me, I
would try and try and never tire. But I
can't, so I suppose I seem to give up,
though I don't intend to do so. But
please  ' lifting a sad pair of eyes so
appealingly, the poor Major felt quite a
sympathetic haze over his own, ' will you
forgive me for saying all this ? I know
it's wrong to have complained. It's
horrible bad taste and very idiotic of me,
for it can't improve matters. But I never
said one syllable about it before to anyone
not even Mary Dacie, and I never will
again. If you can forget my grumbling I

shall be most grateful. It's eased me ever
so much, and perhaps  ' straightening
herself with rather a poor attempt at a
smile,  perhaps I shall behave better after

it;

The Major took her hand, and, with a
kindly little pressure, drew it within his
arm.

I'm sure you mil, if there's need of it,'
he said, soothingly. ' I daresay there are
awkwardness for you all. But do your
best, my dear, and you'll get into smoother
waters before long. You'll not be always
here, you know. It's not to be expected
you should.' (The nearest hint of married
freedom he dared permit himself) ' But
as long as you live together sail as close to
your mother's wishes as you can. If you
have to vex her nth one thing, Why,
please her with another. Now, that letter
business. I don't want to know whom it

was from, of course ; but couldn't you give
in to her there ?'

No !' cried Sydney, with a jerk of the
Major's gouty arm, that made him jump.
I do want you to know who wrote it. It
was Jacob Cheene. My  my  father's
one old true friend ! The only person hereat
St. C lairs I ever knew or ever saw who
spoke kindly of my father to me. He
came here eight years ago, just before 
before  that June. And his coming was
such a pleasure to papa. He was only a
clerk, but they had known, and trusted,
and cared for each other for years and
years. He asked me when he went away
to write to him, and I said I would. I
told papa I was going to, and it pleased
him. I know,' cried Sydney, gazing with
strangely flashing eyes into the blue sky
far away, as if somewhere there a visible
presence were animating her,  I know

papa would never have me give up Jacob,
so I  won't! I know he would always
have me keep true to his old companion,
so I  will ! Please, Major Villiers,' with a
swift turn, and sudden pleading, ' don't
be angry nth me, but papa and I must
have our way in this !'

Then she picked up her trailing coil of
wire, smiled a half defiant, half-beseeching
April smile, and ran off without biding
response or remonstrance, leaving her
would-be Mentor rather inclined to put
his sympathies in the same scale nth her
rebellious decision, and meditating, as he
strolled some half-hour among espaliers
and raspberry-canes, how this high, much-hampered
spirit could be toned down
admirably under tender influence, and
make a wife out of a thousand for his son
Rupert.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE COUNTESS RECEIVES.

That morning's storm seemed to clear the
air. Possibly suspecting, and desiring no
repetition of it, Mrs. Alwyn avoided dangerous
topics, while amply contented with
the opinion he had formed, Major Yilliers
attempted no more interference between
his sister-in-law and her daughters. By-and-by,
when the girls were married and
away, the frets and jars of daily contact
all removed, the mother would perchance
deal out more kindly justice to her
younger child. If not  well, Sydney

would be out of the way of any carping
criticism, sunning herself in more congenial
atmosphere !

So, on the principle of by all means
letting the sleeping dog lie, the Major
shirked any more tete-a-tetes for the remainder
of his visit. Steered clear of
aught but very general conversation. Led
warily from the heat in India to the heat
in town, and the advisability of his son
getting out of it, and inhaling the cool
breezes of St. Clairs now and again. Listened
attentively to Leonora's bravura singing,
resonant and metallic as machine-made
clockwork, and scarcely seemed to hear
the accompanying complaint. ' Sydney
had no patience to cultivate her voice like
this. She rarely attempts any but church
music, to please Mr. Yaughan, I suppose ;
but it is ruinous to good style !' Admired
Leonora amazingly in a great variety of

becoming costumes, mightily gratifying
Mrs. Alwyn with a whisper behind his
newspaper, a propos to a beautiful toilet in
pale blue and creamy lace, that his niece
would grace a courtship if ever called
to that high estate ; and quietly observant
the while of Sydney, he marked with
satisfaction that such modest gifts as
usefulness and intuitive leaning to the
womanly labours of a home had not with
her, as with indolent Miss Leonora, yet
died a natural death ; but, thanks to
training outside The Dale, were all lying
in wait to supplement her fortune in hard
cash.

So the days went smoothly enough till
the last of the Major's visit was reached.
Then the calm which Sydney, from a certain
proud penitence at having opened her
heart to a stranger, and Mrs. Alwyn from
a politic desire to preserve appearances, had

set themselves to keep, was threatened with
another upset.

It was the morning of a grand gathering
at Oakleigh Place, for which the Major
had been especially persuaded to prolong
his visit. An officer, pronounced a gentleman,
and a good-looking man, was a most
desirable escort. So his journey to town
was postponed till the evening train, and
arrangements made to suit his departure
then.

If you will excuse it said his hostess,
you shall have a sort of cold dinner
that can be ready the moment we are
back from Oakleigh. You will be sure,
Sydney, to see that we are not kept waiting.
A new parlour-maid is a great
worry, Major, which you are fortunate not
to realise.'

Sydney looked up perplexed and
reddening.

'/ am to see about the servants,
mamma?'

Yes. If you've no objection.'

'But I thought I was going to Oakleigh
?'

And I thought returned Mrs. Alwyn,
that as you generally care so little for
these afternoon parties, and always prefer
getting off them, you would positively be
glad to stay at home

So I should,' answered the girl, frankly,
if it were anywhere else ; but the Dacier
say the gardens here are glorious in July,
and I had been so looking forward to seeing
them, mamma, as they invited me too,
that I '

*Let Sydney go instead of me,' interrupted
the Major,  I don't care a straw
for the gardens. That's an excellent
amendment.'

Not to be thought of for a moment,'
said his hostess peremptorily. ' If Sydney
cannot possibly attend to my wish and your
comfort, of course she goes with us.' But
baffled in her project of letting Leonora
shine sola at Oakleigh, and warding off comparison
between the ripened beauty of her
elder child, and the far fresher attractiveness
of the younger, Mrs. Alwyn assumed
the heavy air of chronic dissatisfaction
Sydney knew so well and ached under.

Indeed, mamma,' she said now, desperately
anxious their kind guest should
not think her always an evil-disposition
marplot, ' I will show Philips anything I
can before we go, and help her if you will
tell me how 1 may. But I was wanting to
say that I almost must go to Oakleigh, for
I met Lady Comyngham yesterday, and she
stopped her ponies and said she hoped I

would certainly be there. And I said
*' Oh yes," for I never imagined you didn't
want me to '

 I must beg of you, Sydney, not to misinterpret
me in that manner !' put in Mrs.
Alwyn, irritably, more out of sorts than
ever at this pointed politeness from the
Countess, ' go by all means ! Pray go !
I'm only afraid, Major Villiers, you will find
it awkward driving with four in the
carriage.'

Not the least in the world,' protested
the gentleman, willingly. ' I prefer the
quartette, I assure you. Shouldn't half
enjoy myself if one were left out in the
colds you know,' with a good-humoured
smile at Sydney who, on the verge at
answering, was stopped by Leonora, her
mouth slightly sullen, her cheeks tinged
with vexation.

 Mamma, we shall be intolerably crushed

two on the back seat. My skirt certainly
won't look fit to lie seen. I think T had
better stay at home.'

My dearest ' began Mrs. Alwyn,

but for once Sydney broke in vehemently.

 No, no, no, iN'orah ; you know that
couldn't be anyhow ! And there is no
need, for, mamma  I wanted to tell you
last night, only Leonora was singing, and I
couldn't speak  Dr. Dacie is not able to
go, he doesn't get a bit better, and his
wife will not leave him, of course ; but
they both so wish poor Mary to have the
pleasure, for she has not been out all the
summer. So I said I would ask if you
would let her drive me, and then she could
go in with our party. And may she ?'

Just another of those frequent cases
where I do wish you would think before
you speak, Sydney,' answered Mrs. Alwyn,
slowly ; she was mentally balancing pros

VOL. I. N

and CODS. Chaperoning Mary Dacie, in a
well-worn Sunday gown, was repugnant
to her, but the plan would give Leonora
space. Best agree to it then. So she
ended:  you have made it impossible forme
to say "no," however much I may
dislike your arrangement.'

Then I may say "yes"' mamma, and go
and tell Mary?'

If you think she requires any telling,'
said Mrs. Alwyn, rather sarcastically, and
with a sigh indicating she had much to
put up with. Which reluctant affirmative
gained, Sydney escaped to the Dacier, and
later in the day, from the doctor's house
and from The Dale, their respective
vehicles set forth to traverse the three
miles of lane and road that led to Oakleigh
Place.

Thither on that afternoon converged
such a stream of equipages as had not

waked up the rustics thereabouts to watching
wonder for many a long year. For, as
Mrs. Alwyn had explained to her guest,
this Earl and this Countess were new to
titles and possessions, and over and above
a natural desire to shine in these strange
parts, they just now had double reason for
desiring good opinions in the expected
candidature of their elder son for the
southern division of the county.

Except as a name of long nobility and
ownership, the present generation of
Comyngham was little known near St.
Clairs. The late Earl had hated the tame
scenery of East Anglia ; had shut up Oakleigh
Place for years, living mostly abroad,
or, when in England, on a more favourite
estate in Hampshire, and had scarcely been
seen personally by either tenants or neighbours.


But the incomers meant to reverse all this.

n2

With a large family and the prudence
engendered of long limited means, they
elected to keep up but one country house.
Their choice fell upon Oakleigh, and here
they determined upon making, in this first
festive meeting, a thoroughly favourable
shut in rural society.

So the gardens, kept up through all
vicissitudes, were now set forth in July
perfection. The house, a stiff Georgian
building, with suites of stately, panelled
apartments, painted, mirrored, portrait-hung,
after the varying fashions of two
centuries, was open from end to end.
Every possible preparation was made to
ensure the day passing off well.

The Earl, schooled to phlegmatic calm
by serving iu a permanent Government
post under half-a-dozen different administrations,
took the approaching reception
very coolly, but the Countess's feminine

nerves appreciated the complexities of
the situation, and were most actively on
the alert to prevent the slightest flaw in
her fete.

As four o'clock approached she summoned
sons and daughters about her in
the first reception-room, and favoured
them with final instructions, assisted by a
farewell peep at her visiting list.

'Francis,' severely dragging her husband's
attention from ' Harvest forecasts '
in the Standard, 'you know Gerald summarised
that for you this morning.
' Wheat promising on the whole. Oats
light. Barley partial. Rain wanted
everywhere." Now just put the paper
down and attend to me. "When you've
said, 'how d'ye do?" to all the people,
mind and hunt up the Epigrams, and be
particularly civil. He's very crotchety, I
hear, but his tenants are quite extraordinarily

attached to him, and wouldn't vote
against him on any account ; so, Gerald,
try and be in the way and give your arm
to the Dowager Mrs. Erpingham when
they leave. And then, Francis, look here '
indicating sundry dots and stars down
her lengthy catalogue  Mt's really quite
providential, as one may say, all the principal
people whose names begin with E and
L are Radicals or Liberals. Hermits, Ransome,
Radcliffe, and so on, you see ?
And the C's and T's are mostly Tories
and Conservatives, low recollect that.
It's a great help, though even then you'll
have to be guarded. Crops and stock and
partridges are really safest. Gerald, don't
let the band be lazy. Tell the leader
supper will be served for them in the
steward's room before they go. And mind
you contrive to shake hands with the men
of each party as they arrive, and say you

particularly want to call on them before
shooting begins. Avena, my love'  to a
married daughter from Staffordshire,
hitherto more blessed with offspring than
income  * don't over-exert yourself. Keep
on the upper terrace, and tell the elder
ladies where to find refreshments. Edward
and Gertrude will look after the
young ones. But mind now, Edward, no
flirting. None whatever, or you'll scandalise
the rest of your cloth. Margaret,
you and Rex must attend to the tennis.
And all of you talk to everyone. Choose
suitable subjects of course for different
folks. You'll know the clergy by their
coats and collars, and their wives always
keep close against them. If they are old,
ask about their schools and clubs ; if they
are young, inquire after the babies. Be
very civil to the Rector of St. Clairs. He's
a most estimable man, though he looks

shabby. And now 1 donec think there's
anything else, is there?' running an
anxious eye up her list. ' D. C. B. A. 
oh, A  Alwyn. Yes, Edward, be careful
nob to show more attention to either of
those good-looking girls than you do to
other people. It might be noticed, and it's
not advisable. Avena, the mother shall be
introduced to you. I have no idea who
they are, but they live at The Dale (which
you ought to get back, Francis, it was in
the family two hundred years), and seem
to be people of some standing. Mrs.
Alwyn undoubtedly enjoys the art of
dressing well, so you will find conversation
with her easy, Avena. Now, my dears,
there's the first ring. Do pray put plenty
of spirit into the next three hours, and as
we've undertaken this 'thing" let it be a
success !

And a success it assuredly was, from the

arrival of the first carriage freight to the
departure of the last. A meeting that
well earned Oakleigh Place a character for
hospitality, and marked an era for more
than one of its guests.

For a long hour the roll of wheels
sounded unceasingly up the lime avenue.
From the yellow-bodied landau of the
Epigrams, their many-quartered shield
upon its doors, to the roughest of country
roundabouts, did gaily robed figures
debouch under the wide north portico. A
radius of twenty miles supplied the throng.
Squires, successes, squireens, professional
people few and well selected, parsons innumerable
 rectors, vicars, curates  but
there the line was drawn. My lady said
they must stop somewhere, so they stayed
their bidding at curates. An occupier of
one of the largest neighbouring farms, who
by virtue of eminent respectability, and a

good balance at his bankers, had ventured
once upon a time to lift his eyes to Leonora
Villiers, drove by the Comynhams's gate
as Mrs. Alwyn turned in at the same, and
this practical exposition of her superiority
made her pulses beat all exultant, revived
the glories of her Guyswick reign, and by
a hundredfold increased the moment's

proud delight. If Leonora ! Ah 1 on

the wings of that 'if Mrs. Alwyn's
imagination took flight, and sent her in so
radiant, so dignified, that as she failed not
to note, eyes and lips were questioning
who she was the whole afternoon through.
Thoroughly delicious was the sweet July
air. A west wind softly swayed the full
foliage of giant oaks and beeches, without
waking one note of that foreboding rustle
which tells of autumn near. The old fountains
played upon the lower terrace, crowds
watching the fabulously ancient fishes that

swam, glittering, within their basins.
Through the splendid orangeries Oakleigh
was famous for, the most courtly of head
gardeners escorted admiring throngs,
exhibiting proudly his masses of bridal
bloom. From a grove of birch and ilex
gleamed the scarlet coats and sounded the
excellent music of the Fifty-first. So well
did the honourable sons and lady daughters
of the house obey maternal behests, that
four tennis sets were always on the way,
players faring luxuriously with plush-breeches
footmen at one court, gardeners
at another, grooms and stable-boys in
Sunday best at others, to ' field ' for errant
balls ; while lookers-on had seats of all
sizes, {' never let your people stand,' said
my lady, ' it makes them tired and cross !')
ices ad libitum, a discriminating share of
attention from one or other of the family,,
and all went merry as a marriage bell.

As to the individuals we are bound
most to follow, Sydney, willingly released
by Mrs. Alwyn, found her way with Mary
Dacie among the wide south stretch of
flower parterres, and through the domed
conservatories, fragrant with waxen Stephanotis,
so completely charmed with the
novel scene, her face so full of bright
enjoyment, and her graceful young figure
so perfectly at ease, in, perhaps, the simplest
toilette present, that a battery of
admiring, approving glances followed
wherever she went, to her companion's
excessive satisfaction. ('I declare, mother,
her eyes were as blue as sapphires !' Mary
Dacie reported at home, ' I do wish you
could have seen her ! People kept wanting
to wile her away from me, but the
foolish child wouldn't leave me once !')

The Rector of St. Glairs was standing at
the edge of Lady Comyngham's circle ; he

had just made his bow, apologising for
having brought with him a friend, a guest
of two days only, whom the Countess had
most cordially welcomed. Now, both men
leant on the grey terrace wall, watching
the moving, many-coloured throng.

'A sight worth looking at,' said the
stranger, 'and people too. Who are
those?' as a pair of figures approached
across the grass. ' A lady in a blue gown,
who smiles as if she didn't know what ill-temper
meant; and one in white, much
younger, uncommonly good-looking, but
totally different mettle.'

The rector laughed as he followed his
friend's glance.

Much travelling sharpens one's skill in
observation I suppose, Drayton,' he said
for you are very right about those two.
The elder is our doctor's only daughter,
and a good one she is ; so good, I always

wonder she's not been stolen away long
before now. The other  well, I call her
child, but she's that no longer, though she
brings me her Latin exercises twice a
week still !  she's a young lady now, I
suppose, and I confess a marvellous
favourite of mine. If I'm not mistaken,
there's stay and spirit in her for more
than the likely possibilities of life.'

Well, she's out of the way of unlikely
ones down here,' returned Mr. Drayton
(which showed him less a philosopher
than observer) ;  but if looks make one's
fortune she ought to secure a good one.'

'Then we'll wish her a safer road to
prosperity,' said the Rector, half jocose,
half grave, 'for her step-sister has not
achieved any grand coup at present, though
she is years older, and, most people say, far
handsomer.'

And is this last beauty present ?'

Come this way, and I'll introduce
you.'

And moving on a few yards, the Rector
made known to Mrs. Alwyn and Miss
Yilliers,

Mr. Eichard Drayton, an old pupil of
mine, though  ' with a gleam of sedate
mischief  ' no credit to me.' And then he
had to break off his friendly slanders, to
shake hands, and talk the regulation two
minutes with the Earl.

'Quite unfair of Mr. Vaughan, I protest,
to take away your reputation among
strangers !' said Mrs. Alwyn, amiably. No
other gentleman was in attendance on
Leonora and herself just then. Major
Villiers having found in the senior officer
of the Fifty-first an old comrade, with whom
he was recalling Madras experiences. ' I
really consider such a slur demands explanation
!'

Which is easy enough, luckily. It
merely means that having head for neither
classics nor mathematics, I bade Oxford
good-bye in my first year, and took
myself out to find a fortune in foreign
parts.'

Abroad ? Oh, really !' (' Which accounts,'
thought the lady, ' for your just a
little unkempt, un-english look, sir') 'And
may I ask in what quarter of the world
you have been ?'

South America. Chiefly Brazil.'

Most interesting. I am sure the
superb trees and plants here make anyone
long for the Flora of the Equator I
Leonora, dear, Mr. Drayton has actually
been fortune-hunting, as he says, in the
land of humming-birds !'

Leonora had taken the gentleman's
introduction with rather too obvious indifference.
A badly-clad, middle-aged

man, was scarcely a desirable cavalier even
for a few minutes. Now, however, her
mother's tone warned her to be gracious.
So she donned an ever-ready smile, of
which an inexhaustible stock, as even and
expressive as a row of steel buttons, was
always in reserve, and repeated,

In the land of humming-birds ! How
most sweet ! And did you find it?'

'Find  er  oh, I see! The fortune.
Not I !' Leonora's gleam of liveliness
died out instantly. *No, I came back,
after fifteen years, rich ia experience, but
very little else. Luckily a nest was provided
for me here in the old country, or I
might have had to go on knocking about
to the end of my days.'

'A nest? You mean a home?' asked
Mrs. Alwyn, while Leonora yawned behind
her sunshade.

'Exactly so. A little property down in

VOL. I.

Dorsetshire. Nothing grand, but more
than I ever expected from an old uncle.
At a place called Granfylde. Do you
know it ?'

A shadow of some disturbance passed
over the lady's countenance ; but she hastened
to answer,

Not the least. I never was near such
a place that I'm aware of. You intend to
live there ?'

Perhaps  or sell it. I've come down
to consult my old tutor. He's always
ready to help his men through any problem.
There never was a kinder, wiser
head than Robert Yaughan's.'

undoubtedly. Just so,' murmured
Mrs. Alwyn ; but her attention was all
astray. The next moment she rose, and
swept down, all a sparkle in satin and jet,
on a gentleman just passing. ' Oh, Mr.
Duvesne, can you tell us is that exquisite

tree yonder a Cryptogamia Japonica ? You
don t know ? Oh, but you can see by the
little cones. My daughter does admire it
so. I have been wanting her to go down
and examine it closely, but my foot is a
trifle sprained, and I have to spare it.*

Then will Miss Villiers go botanising
with me ?' said the handsome young
divine, and with a satisfied blush, and a
shake of her delicate grenadine plumage,
the young lady stepped daintily off beside
him, over the complete stretch of lawn,
vastly envied by most female observers.

Afraid of exhibiting her triumph in this
manoeuvre by too long gazing, Mrs. Al-gwyn
turned to swell the group of matrons
about Lady Avena Massey's chair, thinking
placidly, ' One is best quietly rid of that
Mr. Drayton ' (an opinion she lived to
repent), while this gentleman, deserted,
after watching what he privately dubbed,

Heat extraordinarily elegant pink and
white piece of empty-headdress took a
couple of steps backwards, and was within
an ace of knocking Miss Mary Dacie
down the terrace slope.

Ten thousand pardons !' he exclaimed,
bat in hand. * What a dolt I was not to
look where I was going. I do hope you'll
forgive me !'

Quite easily,' replied Mary Dacie, her
balance restored, her good-humour never
ruffled, ' all the more so because I think
you are our Rector's friend. Here he
comes.'

And Mr. Yaughan joining them, they
all fell talking together, and presently,
with peals of mirth floating by, Mary
made the very original remark that it was
hard to remember, in such festivities as
this, there was such a thing as trouble in
,the world.

*]S[ow don't say that, Miss Dacie,' begged
Richard Drayton. ' It makes me feel
what a selfish brute I am for enjoying
myself, when an old chum of my young
days is in a most confounded plight. I've
been doggedly keeping the notion at arm's
length all the afternoon. Now you've
brought it to the front again. Our friend
here,' signifying Mr. Yaughan, ' knows all
about it. It's one of his old Greek class,
like me.'

'But he has lighted on worse times
than you, poor fellow !' said the old tutor,
sadly, ' It's desperately hard to be sure,
in the very prime of life, to be stranded
well-nigh helpless and hopeless. How
utterly impossible it is for us to fathom
the why and wherefore of such things !'

Helpless ! Hopeless 1' said Sydney,
softly, to Mr. Drayton ; a very tender,
womanly pity darkening her eyes and

trembling on ber parted lips. ' Is your
friend's trouble so very heavy ? Cannot
anyone ease bim or bear it for bim?'

Richard Drayton looked kindly on the
young questioner. ' If I were ten years
younger Td fall in love with this girl !'
be said to himself ; but aloud,

'No, I'm afraid even time can't mend
this matter. As be used to say in our
old school-days, *'be's in a muddle now,
and no mistake !" But we need not worry
you with the tale, Miss Alwyn, for you
cannot help me any more than ourselves.'


I wish I could,' sbe repeated, wistfully.
And wbafc  what chord of memory bad
been touched ? Tbe band was playing
Auld Lang Syne,' ber father's old song
that be never wearied of baying ber sing
to bim in the twilight; but it was not
that, or not altogether rather a something

very dim, a sound out of a long,
long ago past, a ghost of some pain that
flitted by and made her turn aside to
hide the wave of inexplicable sadness
passing over her. The next moment
it had to be dispersed. Up came Major
Yilliers.

Now, Miss Sydney, I'm commissioned
to fetch you. Miss Dacie, are you ready ?
Mrs. Alwyn is leaving,' and, with hand*
shaking and farewells, they separated,
Richard Drayton muttering as they left,
Alwyn, Alwyn ! I know I've seen that
name somewhere lately. "Where can it
be?'

A tide of adieux followed. In another
hour Lady Comyngham was resting from
her labours with,

Heaven be praised, the thing is over !
I do trust we've contented everyone !' And
the memorable day was done.

CHAPTER IX.

SHADOWS BEFOREHAND.

Done but not by any means done with !

Curious is it that now and then in one's
history a certain hour stands forth distinct,
as gleaming crystal on some common
earthy track, and in it lie the germs of likings,
loves or plans that are to guide us
for good or ill to ends, as yet, undreamt
of. But Lady Comyugham's 'at home'
was ordained to be one of these bright
particular spots, little as such was suspected
by Eichard Drayton, who returned
to St. Clair's rectory prodigiously amused
by this, his first renewal of English

society ; by Mary Dacie, who, aparfc from
enjoyment of the pretty sight, was not
sorry to get away from a crowd where she
had felt herself a veritable Jenny Wren ;
by Sydney, though an undertone of presage
ran through that constantly-recurring
 hopeless and helpless !' or last, not least,
by Mrs. Alwyn, who left Oakleigh Place
most opportunely supplied with fresh
means of attachment to the family she so
keenly desired an alliance with.

It was the morning after the fete. To
her surprise Sydney found herself alone
at the breakfast-table. ' Miss Leonora
had a headache,' Phillips said, ' a tray was
to be sent up to her and mistress in the
boudoir.' So the tray was duly dispatched,
and Sydney unceremoniously made her
own meal by the open window with no
voices about her save those of feathered
songsters.

But for some altogether intangible
reason, even their long, clear calls, and
sweet, responsive love-notes missed something
of their usual hopefulness that morning.
Their warbling seemed all pitched ina
mournful key. ' Hope  Hope  H-o-p-e-
less !' piped forth a great, well-to-do blackbird
in resonant, interrogative fifths ; and
H-o-p-e-less !' trilled back his hidden mate
from the laurel-hesse. The creatures
were out of tune to-day, or Sydney was.
The room to herself, so often a luxury,
seemed now disheartening, oppressive.
The west-wind in the tree-tops made her
shudder. She had an odd feeling of being
so badly wanted somewhere, by someone !
'Hopeless! Helpless!' How those inarticulate
syllables tormented her. Off at a
tangent from them her thoughts strayed
to problems of suffering, of pain such as
never had and never might darken her

own days, though their sting was felt by
thousands beside that one unknown, whose
mere mention yesterday had left her so
unreasonably sad.

But while, watching the fleecy cloudlets
speeding over the blue sky, she speculated
thus on questions insolvable and the great
mysteries of an ever-vanishing by-and-by,
minutes were fleeting. Phillips came in,
saying, * Please if Miss Sydney had finished
would she go upstairs, her mamma
wanted her;' and, hastily finishing her cold
coffee, she obeyed the summons.

It was a small, south-east room which
Mrs. Alwyn had honoured by selection
for her boudoir ; one of the quaintest, quite-the
prettiest in the old-fashioned house.
Part of it, with a deep bay window, was
over the porch. Another window looked
over the rich swaying crops of the Suffolk
acres to the billowy green of Oakleigh

Woods beyond. Each way the view was
charming, and all within matched everything
without.

On the walls hung a few choice paintings,
oval framed, small but excellent ; on
the china-tiled hearth stood a great pink
flowering pelargonium that reached its
blossoms up the satin draperies of the
mantel-piece above. There rested a dainty
time-piece, with a Puck-faced Cupid swinging
for a pendulum, and over the glass
which shaded this smiling love-god at his
labour, a shepherd and shepherdess in
purest Dresden politely offered to each
other fruits and garlands. There were
Sevres cups too, and choice bits of Benares
brass upon the shelf. Mirrors, whose
deep-cut edges gleamed and scintillated
like gems in the morning light, with
flowers cunningly arranged to admire their
beautiful selves therein. A soft square of

deepest crimson Axminster on the polished
floor, a rug of restless, rich-tinted ostrich
feathers in the bay, just meeting one small
couch, which, with three most languor-begetting
easy-chairs, formed the only
seats the small apartment could well contain.
There was no article, no ornament
which was not choice of its kind, for the
entire establishment, as Mrs. Alwyn was
fully aware, owed much of its prestige to
this boudoir of hers, a feminine sanctum
as entirely different from the slipper-strewn
dressing-rooms of well-to-do halls
and manors round about, as it was from
the stiff, much' antimacassared ' state of
the ordinary rural drawing-room.

To this elegant and inner privacy of
The Dale most of its mistress's circle had,
on one pretext or other, been introduced,
and had gone away more or less impressed
with the importance of a lady who counted

such a room among her daily needs. Here,
this morning, some visitor was evidently
expected, for Leonora, not in the usual
cambric wrapper of her first uprising, butin
a long dressing-gown of blue cashmere
and cru trimmings, was lying, hen arranged
like some lazy young queen, upon the
sofa ; her mother in an admirably careful
neglig of claret silk and serge, was putting
some finishing sprays of acacia in the wall
baskets, and on the octagon table, all
gilt and ebony, the breakfast equipage was
replaced by sundry cedar boxes containing
coil after coil of lace.

The morning sun athwart the room set
every vantage point a-sparkling. A soft
breeze just swayed the curtains, bearing up
a breath of mignonette and jasmine from
below. Often as Sydney had entered the
room at the same hour, it struck her now
in contrast perchance to her late fit of

musing  with a sense of its abundant ease,
and with her foot upon the threshold, she
stopped, saying frankly,

Mamma, how pretty ! Your boudoir
grows always nicer and nicer !'

If you hold the door open and let the
wind blow half the brackets down, Sydney,
I fear it will not improve very fast?'
returned Mrs. Alwyn, never ready to be
pleased by Sydney, even with a compliment.
But now,' mollifying, as her daughter
promptly amending the momentary neglect,
came forward, appreciation in each glance
hither and thither, * I want you, my dear,
to help me with something for a very few
minutes, z/ you are not too much engaged.'

Sydney blushed furiously. Oh, could
her mother only have let old wounds heal,
how much more easily they could have
jogged on together !

1 am free enough to do anything you

want till nooD/ lie said, * and after then
if you will only say you want me, mamma

Which I shall not, thank you. All you
have to do now is just to look through that
box of lace. Carefully, please ; the more
valuable the more fragile it is. I want some
Mechlin which I am certain is there somewhere.
Leonora thinks in the square box.
She would have hunted it up, but the sun
made her eyes ache yesterday, so she is
better resting.'

Poor Norah !' commiserated Sydney,
smiling sympathetically at her sister, who,
for all her malady, looked very well at
ease in her becoming deshabille :  I'll do it
instead of her, but I don't know half so
much about lace as she does. Tm not
very positive about Mechlin.'

Then take this for your guide,' and
Mrs. Alwyn spread on the black table a
splendid handkerchief, 'but the piece I

want is not nearly so deep as this. Still,
I fancy Lady Avena Massey is not furnished
with too much even of that, if one may
judge by her chagrin yesterday.'

Lady Avena ? What has she to do
with it, mamma?' cried Sydney, searching
diligently on among pieces of all lengths
and breadths, from ' baby ' Valenciennes
to Brussels point a duchess might have
envied.

Only what you would have heard if you
had not hurried off from the dinner-table
last evening to go and gather strawberries
for those Dacier !' (rit rained in the night
though, mamma, as I expected, and the
fruit would have all been spoiled,' apologised
Sydney.) 'Merely that Lady Avena
was rising from her chair, where she had
been talking most agreeably with me, and
a wretched clumsy young woman's sunshade
on the other side caught the lace on

VOL. I. p

that beautiful little fichu (cue her mother
gave her, I've no doubt,) aud not tore, but
absolutely jagged it off for fully a yard.
Poor Lady Avena looked so vexed, and
the young woman all but cried. Of course.
Lady Avena got round in a minute, and
declared it was no consequence ; but, as
she said ruefully to me as she and I walked
away, ' JVe know that old Mechlin is
not to be had every day, do we not, Mrs.
Alwyn?* So then of course I made haste
to tell I had absolutely plenty of it, and I
believed exactly the same pattern, and she
must permit me the great pleasure of
repairing this damage. She wouldn't hear
of it at first, not till she saw I should be
hurt at refusal ; then she yielded, and her
maid brings the torn piece this morning
for us to match ; Lady Avena would have
come herself but she leaves to-day.'

Here was the mainspring, then, of her

mother's great complacency this morning.
Here the cause of the projected audience
in the boudoir. Not beings admitted to
her mother's confidence, Sydney could only
dimly suspect the reason of her great
anxiety to promote their intimacy with the
Comynghams, but she could easily see how
this courtesy  this really valuable gift 
could be made helpful to such an end.
Whether the game were worth the candle
was not for her to calculate. Upon herself
it seemed to have no more direct bearing
than the temporarily pleasant one of
putting Mrs. Alwyn in excellent humour,
a mood she further promoted by genuine,
if indiscriminate, praise of the beautiful
fabrics she was fingering.

How lovely this Valenciennes is,
mamma ! It looks so innocent with the
little dots all over it. It's as fine as cobwebs.
I should be afraid to wear it. I

r2

like it better than this '  unfolding a
superb stretch of different make. ' This is
not Mechlin, is it ?'

No  gently, child ; it is Alenon point.
I don't imagine the Countess herself could
match it. Be careful.'

If it is so tender, mamma ; I had best
put that which we don't want straight back
into the boxes, had I not?' questioned
Sydney, prudently anxious to put these
treasures safe out of reach of pins and
buttons ; but,

*No; just lay them across that chairs
her mother answered ; ' I can replace
them afterwards. If we are not quick
the maid will be here before we are ready.'

So squares and flounces, collars and kerchiefs,
Averse spread in fine array over the
satin cushions. A filmy heap of Mechlin
was collected, the pieces likeliest to match
laid aside on Leonora's dark robe ; and.

What a quantity !' cried Sydney. ' I
never saw it all out before. Why, mamma,
it must be worth tens or scores of
pounds.'

If you said hundreds returned her
mother, suavely, *you would be more
correct. Lace was a weakness of mine
when I could afford to have weaknesses,
Sydney, which, however, is not since you
can remember. These are relics of times
when I was not doomed to think twice over
every pound I spent.'

This was a dangerous reminiscence.
Sydney became confusedly silent. Her
mother sighed. The moment's retrospect
pained both, though differently. A tap at
the door was welcomed with relief ; and
Phillips entering to announce that Lady
Avena Massey's maid was below with a
note, drove the impending gloom from her
mistress's countenance.

With her blandest aspect to the fore
again :

She may come up here,' said Mrs.
Alwyn.

Then ensconcing herself in the yielding
depths of the very easiest chair, she
mounted her eye-glasses, cast a rapid and
thoroughly satisfied glance around, saw
that the coming scene was ' mounted ' to
perfection, and hastened to be rid of just
the one figure which she intuitively felt
might prove de trop

Sydney, while I see this person will you
write out the list for Muche's ? The catalogue
is on my dressing-table.' And asher
daughter disappeared by one door,
the stranger-servant entered at another.

If Mrs. Alwyn had calculated on the
graceful picture exciting the admiration of
her aristocratic friend's messenger, she
was not disappointed.

The woman, despite the stolidity of
aspect good training is supposed to impart
to her class, fairly stared open-mouthed
at the dainty elegancies of the tiny
room. Her gaze first falling on the piles
of all but priceless finery, next on Mrs.
Alwyn, next on Leonora, she uttered an all
but audible * Oh !' before she so far remembered
herself as to make the regulation
greetings of respect.

This was delightful. Mrs. Alwyn well
knew the influence of the back stairs, and
felt assured such a report of her surroundings
would return to Lady Avena
as would satisfy her that her reverend
brother would take a wife nurtured to
delicacies equal to any his circle could
afford if he chose Miss Villiers.

With most dignified condescension the
young lady's mother stretched forth her
hand for Lady Avena's note, and prolonged

its reading that the bearer might have
more time to satisfy her evident capacious
curiosity.

'Feel so greatly indebted murmured
Mrs. Alwyn, scanning her missive half-aloud
for Leonora's benefit. " So ashamed
to trespass on your kindness. Trust you
will on no consideration rob yourself.
Very best thanks. Remembrances of our
united circle. Yours most truly, Avena
Massey." Sweet name Avena. Now,'
laying aside the note, and motioning the
servant to the table, ' if you have the
pattern I think we can match it here.
Your mistress is afraid I should rob myself,
but I do not think there is much risk
of my doing so.'

I don't think there is, indeed, ma'am
said the maid, with emphasis. Then she
brought forth the torn fichte, and with
some nervousness  for certainly her fingers

trembled  began to compare it with
piece after piece, scarcely able to stifle
an exclamation when now and then something
especially rare was shaken out.

Mrs. Alwjm was supremely gratified.

You are a judge of these things, no
doubt. Of course, your mistress has
much superior to this, though.'

Oh ! no, ma'am. Nothing to compare
with it. Her ladyship mostly dresses
very plain.'

Exactly my own taste !' agreed Mrs.
Alwyn, better pleased than ever. ' Buried
here in the country, I rarely use any
of this,' tossing a heap of ' Brussels ' carelessly
aside, 'they lie away useless and
half-forgotten ; but, perhaps,' with a
visibly-suppressed smile and glance towards
her daughter, ' others may care for
them. They may be wanted and worn
again some day.'

If your young lady has to have a 
soon,' said the woman, taking
the hint instantly, 'you can give her as
good as a princess's without going far to
fetch it, ma'am.'

(' She has certainly heard some gossip
in the servants' hall,' thought Mrs. Alwyn
elated, * family affairs are always known
there sooner than anywhere V) * "Well,
whenever it may be required she said
aloud, very graciously, 'one important item
of Miss Yilliers' trousseau will be ready.'

And leave plenty for Miss Sydney too
ma'am !' said the woman. At whose
mention Mrs. Alwyn bethought herself of
rather a clever stroke. Things looked so
promising for that secondary scheme, she
might advantageously send forth a hint of
it ; then any incipient fancy of the Honourable
and Reverend Edward's would be
nipped in the bud. So,

Miss Alwyn can easily be spared
sufficient she said, * and indeed,' significantly,
'I don't know that I shall do
amiss by selecting some to-deny, as it is
likely to be wanted before very long.'

The woman looked up from her search
interested, but Mrs. Alwyn was not going
to commit herself to particulars. So she
adroitly quitted the subject.

'Leonora, love, will you look at the
Mechlin I laid out by you. Has not the
longest strip a double thread round the
edge, with little loops and sort of trefoils
in the scallop ?'

Yes Leonora, dropping Le Follet to
examine, thought it had, and, holding it
languidly up, * would this length be
sufficient ?'

Her mother and Lady Avena's maid
drew near to pronounce the match on close
inspection perfect, and the servant, despite

an intimacy with the jewel case of an eats
daughter, bestowed what Mrs. Alwyn took
for keenly appreciative glances on the four
splendid hoops, pearl, diamond, sapphire,
ruby, which adorned the young lady's white
hands.

The quest ended, nothing remained but
to fold up the parcel, but even this last
minute Mrs. Alwyn utilised to her own
purpose.

Lie down again, dear Leonora. My
daughter felt the heat so much yesterday.
You will tell Lady Avena we are all well
with this exception. (Then someone must
call to inquire for her,' she meditated
rapidly, ' Mr. Duvesne most likely !) Take
some eau-de-cologne, darling,' pouring it
freely on hands and handkerchief from an
immense gold-stoppered bottle. ' If Miss
Villiers should depart with all these,' sweeping
up the festoons of lace from the satin-backed

chair, and referring with motherly
benignity to the maid's former speech, ' I
must see that she goes where she will be
well taken care of. Anything less than
what she leaves would be quite impossible
for her.'

I haven't a doubt of it, ma'am,' was
the reply, the speaker bending to tie her
parcel.

You are ready now ? Assure Lady
Avena I shall not even miss what I send
her. And  oh ! mind, mind my Chelsea
boy !' as an abrupt turn jeopardised a
piece of eighteenth century ware, 'I
couldn't replace it for fifty guineas ! It's
safe now. You will go down into the
hall, please. Phillips will show you out.
Good-morning.'

Sydney was just coming from her own
room as this early visitor quitted the
boudoir. Not particularly wanting to meet

the stranger she drew back, and, herself
unseen, was witness of a most inexplicable
pantomime. For the stereotyped respectful
aspect of the woman changed as she closed
the door behind her. With a fierce
scowl of bitterest anger she clenched her
hand, and, her teeth hard set, seemed
furiously to menace the room she had
just left. Catching her breath she
seemed barely able to restrain vituperation
or sobs. One foot raised, as if she could
have stamped for very passion, was only
brought silently down by an effort that set
her trembling from head to foot. But a
sound in the hall below seemed to recall her
to her senses. With one great, quivering
breath she steadied herself, swept the back
of her gloved hand quickly over her eyes,
and, rapidly descending, left the house.

I wonder, mamma,' Leonora was saying
as her step-sister entered, ' how that

servant knew Sydney's name. Did you
notice it ?'

Picked it up from fellow-servants, of
course was the quick rejoinder. ' Now
rest quietly, my dear, while I make haste
to Hemyngford. Leonora had best not be
disturbed, Sydney, till I come back

So Sydney was left with only her own
counsel to consult over that curious interlude
on the landing, and, since she could
not possibly either fathom or amend the
woman's singular excitement, she did her
best to put it from her mind. It might
have been illness, she thought. It could
have nothing to do with any of them at
The Dale.

But it had !

CHAPTER X.

BRINGS A WOOER TO ST. OLAIRS.

Mr. Richard Drayton's two days at St.
Clairs lengthened under hospitable pressure
into a week, and in that time it naturally
fell out that he saw something of what
Mr. Vaughan called his  lay-vicars.'

A multitude of small works mostly go to
the women of such homes as mine, Drayton,'
said the grey-haired rector to his quondam
pupil, the morning after the gathering
at Oakleigh Place ; ' and I give them
over to those two you talked with yesterday.
They can help a man of my years,
you know, without being suspected of

wanting to marry him ! That Sydney
Alwyn's adaptability is most amazing ;
give her anything to do for anyone she
likes, and she draws to the task like a
needle to a manet. And the other is an
invaluable girl  well, not girl exactly, for
she is ten years Sydney's senior '

'And how old may V be?' interposed
Mr. Drayton.

Twenty or thereabouts. So I'm rarely
fortunate to have such assistants.' (The
last thing to enter the rector's head would
have been any explanation of how his own
deeds had earned him these willing services.
That Mr. Drayton might find out !) ' But
mind you, every man hasn't such luck,
and recollect when you map out your home,
Drayton, you're not so fond of letter-lore
as your old tutor, so furnish yourself with
something that will brighten all your
evening-tides.'

VOL. I. Q

Meaning a wife ?'

Right. And when you're determined
to take one, come here '

To find her !' Mr. Drayton's brown
face reddened.

No !' laughing. *But to hear the rest
of a bachelor's homily on married life !
Who's there?'  a soft tap sounding on
the study door  ' Come in. What, you !'
as Sydney Alwyn entered, a basket of big
strawberries in one hand, a bunch of
honeysuckle in the other. ' Surely now
you are not come up in this heat just to
bring me those !'

Not that alone,' Sydney answered, setting
down her freight to shake hands with
Mr. Drayton, ' for I promised Harry and
Ben to come and help them with their
Euclid. At least blushing, ' to do it with
them. They expected to be at lessons
again to-day.'

Instead of which I've stopped their
industry,' said Mr. Drayton ; ' a drone in
the hive, I ought to be off.'

Nonsense V cried the rector, * they area
pair of lazy little rascals. I set them
their work hours ago. They ought to have
stuck to it without me. But I suppose,'
to Sydney, ' they haven't ?'

In honesty she had to shake her head.

Playing !' with a groan, ' as if there
were no examination coming on in September.'
Scholarships for these two orphan
lads lay heavy on the rector's mind just
then, and he looked vexed. Sydney as
little liked to see him troubled as to seethe
lads, her very good comrades of four
years, in disgrace, so she hastened to
bespeak their pardon with a lurking
smile.

Harry has been the soul of industry,' she
said, * in drawing cats ! He's sketched

q2

the tortoiseshell in fifty attitudes ; Ben
has written a poetical pendant to the picture,
praising pussy's extraordinary mouse-catching
powers !'

Hereat her hearers broke out laughing,
and Sydney went bravely on.

So they are to be forgiven, please.
They are to make up for lost time next
week. And as Mr. Drayton will be here,
and of course you must be with him, may
I come down and be with the boys each
morning? They say they want me.'

The rector oavc a covert olauce at his
friend. (' Just a device of that deep young
person's to set me free,' he explained afterwards,
* the lads work like Trojans if she's
present !) Oh, come by all means,' he
agreed, ' and I'll luxuriate in gossip with
this man. But stay'  as with this permission
Sydney would have left  'are you
going by the Dacier' ? Then will you take

The Standard aud these club papers ?' (It
was a poor folks' club, mainly kept afoot
from the rector's pocket, one of the few
certain props of the doctor's lessening income.)
' They've come to me in a muddle,
but I'll look in on Monday and set them
straight.'

That's how you are going to luxuriate,
is it?' laughed Sydney. Then setting the
honeysuckle in a plump brown jug, always
ready for the flowers she so often brought,
and bidding him be sure and eat his strawberries
 for he had a great trick of forgetting
his food or giving it away  she was
renewing her good-byes when Mr. Drayton
was seized with politeness, and insisted on
carrying the account-books as far as the
Gate House ; he had seen Dr. Dacie once,
and promised to call to-day, so off the two
went together.

The gentleman opened the conversation

quite cleverly as soon as the Rectory door
was closed.

Mr. Vaughan,' said he, ' seems to find
plenty to occupy him even in this sleepy
little place ;' and Sydney, her lips
easily unlocked on such a theme, waxed
eloquent over the wide labours of their
mutual friend ; telling of his goodness to
the lads under his roof, and to herself, with
an animated warmth which was  so Richard
Drayton thought  extremely girlish and
extremely pretty. He brought her to a
check, though, by saying Mr. Vaughan had
boasted of having her to help him.

*Me!' cried Sydney, with a strong
suspicion she was being made fun of  her
home experience had ingrained in her
nature mistrust of her own powers  ' Me,
indeed ! I am afraid,' furtively eyeing this
middle-aged flatterer, you are joking !'

Not at all,' Mr. Drayton hastened to

answer her, * I have been hearing of your
good offices in countless ways  yours and
Miss Dacie's !'

Ah ! Mary's now,' said Sydney, instantly
acquiescent. ' She is worth something !
Why, Mary Dacie is right hand to father
and mother, and rector, and I don't know
whom besides. She is the cleverest of managers
and the very best of daughters, and
knows all about blankets and calicoes ; and
she can dispense too, she's half a doctor,
and,' blazoning out her friend's perfections
with a triumph that lighted and
yet softened all her own features, ' she
is not like any one else I know ; she is a
heroine !'

 Have Miss Dacie's lines lain much out of
the common, then, to earn her such a title ?'
asked Mr. Drayton, vastly enjoying his
companion's enthusiasm, and quite ready
for more of it.

Sydney turned to him her whole earnest
face. ' She has just lived through all her
girl-years without the least share of such
pleasures as most girls have. And all
through she has been just what I told you,
without ever flagging. They had a great
trouble, you know, once, when Dr. Dacie
was so hurt. Now, I'm afraid they have a
great many cares. Perhaps I ought not
to talk of them, though. But whatever
comes, Mary is always bright, always
brave, always patient. That's why I call
her a heroine.'

'Always patient, always brave !' repeated
Mr. Drayton. ' Ah, I suppose that combination
does make a heroine  or hero.'
And astride that phrase his thoughts
seemed silently to travel for some seconds,
whither, strangely enough, Sydney followed
unerringly.

You are thinking of that  was it a

school-fellow of yours?  you told me of
yesterday.'

'Yes. How did you find that out, Miss
Alwyn?'

Because I have been thinking of him
too, this morning. Perhaps  ' hesitating,
for she was on totally unknown ground 
whatever his losses are, they may turn
him into a hero. He may be glad some
day he had them.'

H  m !' -Mr. Drayton smiled grimly 
'I can't imagine the dawn of that day yet.
I'm afraid it's easier for such as he to be
brave than to be patient. And he's
lost '

His money, all of it ?' Sydney questioned ;
even her knowledge of life told her how
often that was the base of mankind's
woes.

Xot money alone. Worse.'

Xot' she felt impelled to ask on, 'nob

some one  or  no, not the only person he
loved ?'

Such an innocent lighting up of her
own heart's depths was here, Eichard
Drayton could have smiled at this revelation,
so purely womanly. But he answered
gravely 

No, no, it is not that.'

Then,' said Sydney simply, with much
relief, ' he can't be hopeless ;' with which
dogma they turned in at the Dacier' gate,
and Mary, watching their approach,
thought the girl had caught some new
charm even since yesterday, and wondered
if this Mr. Drayton, looking down upon
her, saw it too. Then her own reflection
very visibly thirty, in a much-worn dress,
gleamed upon her from a mirror, and she
turned away with a rising pang. Compared
with Sydney, oh, how old, how plain
she looked ! For once she determined,

Tvitb unusual shrinking, she would not goto
meet her girl friend and  the stranger.
They could do without her ! But, alas I for
her plan, the next moment her father called.
Here were club papers she must take care
of, all to be examined before the rector
came on Monday ; so, with her most rare
qualm of jealousy quelled by Sydney's kiss
she shook hands with Mr. Drayton, and
while Dr. Dacie hunted out his leader in
the newspaper, explained pleasantly how
Miss Alwyn * spoils papa by reading to him
every day at noon, because his sight is
rather bad, and I have not always
time,' and then slipped unobtrusively
away to lure back her cheerfulness among
household cares, leaving the caller, by
special permission of the doctor and
Sydney, listener to the morning news,
observer of the delicate neatness of all
the well-worn furniture about him, as last

night's lot debate was gone through, emphasised
by growls of assent or grunts
of disapproval, according as his host's
political proclivities were tickled or tormented.


That noontime reading  one of Sydney's
grateful new ways to pay her old debts to
the Dacier  must have been to Mr. Drayton's
taste. Oa three successive days in
the next week he appeared at the Gate
House by Sydney's side, the two always,
as Mary Dacie, with a faint aching not to
be stifled, used to notice, in lively conversation,
and on the last day he even took
his leave with her, claiming her company
from the doctor's house to the very gate
of The Dale, and they grew in a manner
confidential.

Mr. Yaughan,' he told her, as they
went along, ' wants to put an end to my
going abroad again. Old roving habits

pull hard, Miss Alwyn. Yet his counsel
is always wise. Which shall I do ? Go
or stay ?'

Stay, certainly,' returned Sydney.
There's no place like home.'

But suppose I haven't a home ? Only
a house ?'

Make haste and find whatever you
want to  improve it.'

And you think'  with a side-glance as
if on her answer much hung  ' you think
I might  by-and-by  when I've turned
myself round at Granfylde, find what I
want to that end ?'

I really do.'

Then,' said Richard Drayton, a sort of
shy pleasure beaming over his honest,
sunburnt face, 'yours be the casting
vote, I'll abide by it. When I've looked
Granfylde over and know how I stand, I
shall be paying St. Glairs another visit.'

And I'll promise you one welcome,'
said Sydney, a speech he answered
with such a farewell handshake as left
her fingers tingling for ten minutes.
Certainly they understood each other extremely
well.

From her boudoir window Mrs. Alwyn
could see, on the other side of the laurel
hedge, a masculine felt accompanying
Sydney's white summer straw. With a
dishonouring frown she watched the retreating
shoulders of her daughter's
escort, asking, as Sydney entered irradiated
with some pleasant thought,

Is that singular friend of Mr. Yaughan's
never going to leave? He fastens his
society on you in a very persistent manner,
one might say " ill-bred," as he is a perfect
stranger.'

He never feels that with me, mamma,'

apologised Sydney, prompt in defence,
being both Mr. Vaughan's friends, we
seem quite used to each other. The boys
say he is a capital fellow, and I think they
are right.'

Leonora looked scandalised ; Mrs. Al-gwyn,
affronted.

I consider, Sydney, that your mother's
opinion should certainly outweigh that
of a couple of raw boys! look on this
Mr. Drayton as inquisitive and ill-mannered.
Pray, did he investigate the
different parts of England you have
lived in, as he did with me on Friday?'
(a stretch of imagination justified under
Mrs. Alwyn's private code of the admissible).


No, indeed, mamma, he did not.
We have only talked of St. Clairs and
well, just the people we both knew

here. Nothing else. And Mr. Drayton
leaves to-daj, so he won't annoy you anymore.'


The last intelligence was welcome ; a
wafting away of uneasy mists invisible to
other eyes than Mrs. Alwyn's. So Sydney
got lightly off for her misdemeanours, and
her mother resumed the grand suavity
which became her so well before the
after-luncheon hour was disturbed by a
visitor.

This was Mr. Edward Duvesne, bearer
of the expected inquiries as to Miss Villiers'
health, and of a message from the countess,
over which Mrs. Alwyn silently sang
pagans.

Could she with her daughters spend an
hour or two at Oakleigh Place on Saturday ?
She had had no time to see through the
gardens properly last week. Lady
Comyngham so much hoped they would

pay her a second visit while the place looked
well.'

Here was a flattering discrimination, an
appreciative calling to come forth from the
common herd of last week's visitors, and
be honoured by reception into the inner
family circle, that rejoiced every ambitious
nerve in Mrs. Alwyn's system. Of course
she would go. No imaginable engagement
would have kept her away. But instant
acceptance would have been infra dig. So
the eye-glass went up to mask too evident
satisfaction : a well-simulated uncertainty
compelled a hunt through the dainty
morocco ' engagement ' book, and at last
the ' Thanks, I think we are free on
Saturday. "VYe shall be very happy,' was
delivered with the best assumption of just
moderate gratification Mrs. Alwyn could
master. ' Nothing at least,* she amended
her acceptance, * to deter my elder daughter

VOL. I. R

and myself. Miss Alwyn must remain
at home unfortunately. We positively' 
with an expressive glance at Leonora 
could not take Sydney away. Rupert
would think it strange  a son, Mr. Duvesne,
of the Major Villiers who was at Oakleigh
with us. By marriage my nephew, but no
relation to my younger daughter  er  at
present. Lady Comyngham will kindly
excuse her, I am sure.'

And as the young lady was not there to
speak for herself, being upstairs construing
Caesar for her class-mates' edification, that
was the reply Mr. Duvesne bore away some
half-hour later, bearing also, as Phillips
opening the hall door observed, with a
secret snigger, a ' Madame d'Arblay ' carnation
worn by Miss Leonora at luncheon.
(' Hadn't the countess that shade ? Then
would he take it to her') And Mrs.
Alwyn announced to Sydney, * Leonora

and I 0 to Oakleifh Place on Saturday,
so I must depute you to receive Mr.
Villiers. He writes asking for a peep of
the country. I don't fancy he is very
robust, so I hope he may enjoy the change,
poor fellow.'

Accordingly on the day fixed Mrs. Alwyn
drove off with her elder daughter, Leonora,
a most artistic study in cool draperies, a
bunch of innocent-eyed jasmine on her
bosom ; and Sydney, the road paved to
possible liking by pre-secured pity, was left
to meet the guest whose coming concerned
her so much more closely than she yet
divined.

Highly contented as the Major had gone
back to town, he had wisely refrained from
over-praise of Sydney in any form. A
hint or two that might come in useful as
to her disposition he had given  * Docile
in reality, I'm positive, but not common



place " yea, nay," you know. Drive her
with the snaffle and not with the curb, my
lad ! her mother uses that too much '  but
her personal charms he passed over with
You'll see her soon, and I needn't describe
her:' so the appearance of his young
hostess took Mr. Eupert as an agreeable
surprise.

As the Hedyngham cab turned in at
the leafy sweep of The Dale grounds, she
came to meet him from under the drooping
lime-boughs, the gracefulness of ready
greeting in her slender summer-clad
figure, the slight embarrassment that
flushed her cheeks and darkened her
serious eyes melting quickly as she fancied
she detected in the new-comer that
delicacy which her mother had foreshadowed.


Handsome after the type of his cousin
Leonora, whom he immensely admired,

she might not be, but well-bred to the
most careless observer, with 'points that
gain upon a fellow every time he looks at
her, you know !' Ah ! it took very few
seconds for Mr. Rupert to decide this
prize was worth pursuit, and, with the
pleasant pendant of ' six thousand,' should
be his in due time.

So he made the most of the mood in
which she met him. ' Was awfully
tired. Town with the thermometer at
ninety was slow suicide, but labourers
couldn't choose localities !' and after he
had disposed of travelling-dust he re-appeared
under the lime and took his tea
with a wearied-out sort of enjoyment in
the restful hour, that gave no hint of
others neither so early or so healthy, which
had emptied his pockets and paled his
complexion of late.

Apologies for Mrs. Alwyn's absence

were received with great equanimity.

It's best to take one's pleasures by
degrees,' said Mr. Villiers,  and one's
relations too, though I'm not clear if I
may claim you in that list. What is
the etiquette of step-cousinship ? Does it
allow me to say " Sydney," for instance ?'

I don't think you called me " Miss
Alwyn " four years ago,' she answered
amused at this point of ceremony.  Speak
to me as you do to Leonora. Treat us
alike.'

'Then it will be "Sydney." Thank
you. I can treat you both alike, so far.
But as to four years ago being any precedent,
why, four years are a gulf at your age.
You have grown out of knowledge since
then.'

'In the same time most girls would
have done the same thing,' she answered

calmly, letting a rather fervid glance sboofc
harmless by as she gave him another cup
of tea.

'Ah ! but you've done more than grow.
May I, without hopelessly putting my foot
in it, say how you've improved ?'

'No, you may not,' said Sydney, 'for
you haven't been here long enough to
know whether I deserve the compliment.
Please make something besides personal
remarks, or else perhaps we shall quarrel.'

Which Fate forbid !' returned the gentleman
; ' the last thing on earth I want is
either to begin with a quarrel, or,' very
pointedly, ' to end with one.'

But that shaft, too, glanced unnoted by
its aim, and Mr. Villiers was driven to
make himself agreeable for the next hour
on entirely new lines, with a companion
not to be ' fetched ' by any art of flirtation,

a baby at coquetry, though out of her
teens, the like of whom in all bis London
life be bad never encountered before.

Determined on approval, however, he
found no fault with this specimen of a
new class. On the contrary, be liked the
change from every-day womankind, and
flattered himself that, keeping well insight
a certain girlish dignity which
Sydney, at her frankest, always wore, he
made capital ' running ' in the time that
elapsed between their meeting and Mrs.
Alwyn's return.

From Oakleigh Place the ladies came
back in a state of honied sweetness. The
Countess had been charming. Leonora had
sung to her. Mr. Edward Duvesne had
turned the pages. Some one had compared
her voice to Patti's. Now here at home
Rupert and Sydney were getting on
admirably. Every plan seemed prosperous.

Tor a whole evening Mrs. Alwyn was
superbly serene, and only once, when she
was showing her nephew the little conservatory
where he might be permitted a
cigar, was the express object of his visit
touched upon.

Leonora is handsomer than even Aunt
Helen,' said Mr. Villiers, 'and "little
Sydney," as we used to call her '

Yes, Rupert. About her  what do you
think  altogether?'

That she's quite delightful. Developed
every way  beautified amazingly !'

This was warmer praise than Leonora's
more than Mrs. Alwyn could stand.

I am relieved that you like her  at first,'
she said, her mouth drooping ominously at
the corners ; ' you will find out her best
and worst characteristics by degrees. You
may have to be careful, Sydney is so
decided  what some would call wilful.'

so much the better,' laughed Mr.
Yilliers, ' if she takes wilfully in my favour.
I must try and make her.'

Then they said good-night, and no more
conversation on the subject was exchanged
for long.

But given a mother and suitor playing
judiciously into each others hands, the
game went on with every prospect of
success. Though Leonora and her mother
performed their devotions at Oakleigh
Church next day, Mr. Villiers elected to
walk with Sydney to St. Glairs', gravely
informing his companion that he thought
people should always attend their parish
church, though he would have been sorely
puzzled to tell where or what his was I
And, coached by the cunning Major, he
fearlessly attacked his aunt's prejudices on
feminine occupations, pronounced gardening
a most invigorating exercise, and only

wished he could shake off office drudgery
any day and come and help his  cousins ' at
the work.

But I shall be down again soon he
informed Sydney on the Monday morning
when his first visit ended, and she, at the
request of her mother, whose head did so
ache if she rose too early, attended their
guest's seven o'clock breakfast. ' I feel no
end better for this splendid air. I shall
soon repeat the dose if I don't outstep my
welcome.'

There is no risk of that,' returned
Sydney, pleased at this tribute to St. Clairs'
curative powers, ' as mamma said last nighty
you must come soon and come often if it
does you good.' And of this invitation the
young man took full advantage.

Glad, I have no doubt,' said Sydney to
Mary Dacie, ' to get respite from that
grinding office. He seems to be not very

strong, and I suppose they have to work
very bard.'

According to his own account,' said
Miss Dacie, which was quite a vindictive
speech for her; but she had taken an
aversion to this rather 6/a5'-looking young
man, with his mixture of Bond Street and
Madame Tussaud's personnel and feared
what people in the village began to gossip
might be true ; this frequent Sunday guest
at The Dale might be after taking Sydney
away.

But the suggestive confidences some
women delight in were not to Mary
Dacie's or to Sydney's taste. So the one
kept her fears to herself, and the other
never suspected their existence. Mr.
Villiers came some half-dozen times the
autumn through, and always left, if not
more in love, yet more thoroughly convinced
that this was the wife ordained for

him, though he still hesitated over bringing
matters to a crisis. He was hard
pressed for an announced engagement, for
Tufter's bill and sundry other accounts
grew clamorous for settlement. Yet
every day at The Dale showed him Sydney
was not a mere malleable piece of girlhood
to be had for the asking. If she said ' No '
to him she would abide by that ' No.' Soit
behoved him to feel the ground safe
under his feet. Those thousands of hers
were worth some pains, to say nothing of
herself. Therefore he pursued his wooing
with a cautious deliberation that
would have provoked Mrs. Alwyn, had not
side circumstances condoned delay.

The Comynghams had left Oakleigh in
September. A scare as to the water
supply at the House dispersed them till
the spring.

It's awfully provoking, especially for

rao,' said the Honourable Edward, quite
sentimentally, taking leave at The Dale,
 for I wanted to hurry on those builders
at my neve Rectory. The place ought to
be done by the spring. I hope Miss
Yilliers will show an interest in it then,
and tell me how it ought to be arranged.'

That speech was food for hope through
long winter weeks, when Oakleigh church
was supplied by a locuia tenens, and saw
little of Mrs. Alwyn or her daughter,
It might be well, too, the elder lady consoled
herself with thinking, that this break
had occurred. Sydney's affair could now
be adjusted at reasonable leisure. Her
marriage-day might be decided on by the
time the Comynghams came back ; and
they would be without her through the
next summer's campaign, destined, the
mother fondly hoped, to bring the bridegroom
of her desire to Leonora's feet.

Thus through his flying visits Mr. Rupert's
courtship was well seconded by his
aunt Helen and  without much difficulty
the hours of his presence were made
brighter to Sydney than those of his
absence.

With some tact he watched her likings
and turned them to his own use. A question
of winter gifts was raised before him.
Sydney, disappointed, had to give upmost
she desired to make. When Mr.
Villiers next presented himself he was
wrapped in blanket-like rugs, purchased,
he declared, at Hedyngham, to protect
him from the east wind driving to St.
Clairs, but no more use to him, so would
Sydney dispose of them as she chose ?
Did he hear books mentioned, wished forby
some fortuitous chance he was sure to
have such ' at home ' (meaning at a particular
bookshop off Oxford Street), or

could borrow them for ber easily ; and as
weeks slipped bj this prudent siege seemed
likely to take effect.

A charming work on plant-lore had of
late appeared. Knowing it to be of the very
kind Sydney would delight in, Mr. Rupert
brought it down, a Christmas gift, with 
not to be too marked  bangles for Leonora,
pheasants for his aunt.

Sydney, overjoyed at her prize, buried
herself in its fascinating pages, and at
the evening's end thanked the giver most
expressively.

You must read it yourself, Mr. Villiers,
to know what 1 have been enjoying,' she
said.

I ! Why, I know as much of the subject
as of the Homeric bards! Plainly,
nothing !'

Oh ! but it makes you like it if you
will but begin.'

'Then will you teach me?'

Gravely   Yes, if you wish

Then I am sure to like it.'

Precisely what I say.'

 With a difference,' said Mr. Rupert in
lowered voice,  which some time I must
explain to you.'

But not now replied Sydney, most unsuspicious
still, ' for I have read myself to
sleep. Good-night. And I don't know
when I've enjoyed a Christmas evening so
much. I have to thank you for it.' And
she bestowed on Mr. Rupert a full beam of
gratitude as he held the door open for her.

Leonora had gone to bed an hour before.
Watching another oirl's love-affair was
very stupid work. Mrs. Alwyn alone was
left to mark the words and smile.

Well ?' she said, questioning her nephew
with a glance as he came back to the
hearth-rug.

VOL. 1. s

Well, Aunt Helen,' he said, ' I feel very
much jour debtor. It won't be my fault if
Sydney is not my wife long before next
Christmas time.'

CHAPTER XL

A Grand DISCOVERT.

Having come to which stage, Mr. Villiers
would probably have pressed his suit
rapidly to conclusion, but for sundry interruptions
unforeseen and unavoidable.

First came a month of snows and storms,
that made country roads all but impassable
even for journeys of profit, and utterly
tabooed the notion of traversing them on
journeys of pleasure. At least so Mrs.
Alwyn wrote to her nephew, opining perhaps
that an obstacle at this precise
juncture might make him more ardent on

his next visits. Then a political embroiled



ment with a cantankerous foreign Power
brought clouds of war on the nation's
horizon, agitated the "War Department,
and gave Mr. Eupert a bond fide dose of
long hours. And with March came graver
delay.

One of what Mrs. Alwjn called Sydney's
'pretty warbling choir,' a worthy little
twelve-year-old Suffolk dumpling of the
female sex named Patty Peggs, was ' took
ailing,' and after vapouring through a
prelude, suspected of chicken-pox, ague, or
measles, developed by the end of a week
a fine case of malignant typhoid. Miss
Patty being the eldest of eight (the family
including two sets of twins, which, as the
poor mother said, ' du tell up so !') it maybe
inferred without much imagination that
her share of daily bread was not superabundant,
to say nothing of the food illness
needed.

Fearless of disease, Sydney at first went
to the child with such supplies as Dr. Dacie
recommended and her own narrow purse
could furnish ; but when the malady was
duly declared, Mrs. Alwyn promptly forbade
these ministrations. Leonora, alarmed at
all fever, was infinitely terrified by a second
and third case, resolutely refused to go out
of doors or taste a breath of the air which
blew between the infected village and
*' their nobility," and so nearly alarmed
herself into illness of some sort, that her
mother decided on flight as the lesser of
two evils, sent the servants away on very
close board wages, shut up The Dale, and
carried her daughters off to the fresh
breezes of a southern watering-place.

Sydney pleaded dolefully to be left at
home, or with the Dacier. She might help
them or Mr. Vaughan if illness spread.
But her mother quickly negatived the

petition. ' People would say I had more
regard for Leonora's health than yours
she said, ' and nothing should induce me
to leave you here.'

So, as an example of well-balanced
affection, Sydney was carried off, and had
to leave what the cottage neighbours called
her ' poor little singing' father ' to
struggle through her phases of suffering
without further help from her than could
be trusted in the shape of shillings to Mary
Dacie.

This effort of maternal justice, however,
earned Mrs. Alwyn's amiability a long
rest.

She was sorely provoked to find at their
Bournemouth boarding-house that Sydney's
by now distinguished face and style
drew more attention than her sister's well-preserved
charms ; and by an attitude of
petulance, not positively unkind but inexpressibly

wearing, she made it manifest
to her younger child that as time went on
she became more and more the ' one too
many ' of their trio.

If Leonora and I could have been
alone she complained, ' which of course we
could not be, as you were so much too
thoughtless to be left at St. Clairs  but
if we had been alone we might have spent
the spring in Paris. But travelling with a
third practically doubles one's expenses.
That has often kept me from a change
when I should have enjoyed it.' And
every item of each week's outlay was
scanned through the same medium, driving
Sydney into unavailing discomfort and
wistful quiet.

The little coterie of semi-invalids among
whom they were planted, watching the
new-comers with amusement, were puzzled
over the connection c f the three, till the

widow of a City of London Knight, chief in
the band of permanent boarders, took the
bull by the horns, or otherwise accosted
Mrs. Alwyn in the drawing-room one
evening, and investigated the relationship.

What a particularly charming brunette
your younger  companion is !' she began
ingratiatingly, ' at least, we presume her to
be the younger  the one reading by the
table.'

Mrs. Alwyn looked deliberately through
her glasses as if to make sure of the person
alluded to. " Oh ! I see  Sydney  yes,
she is often admired.'

'You said "Miss Sydney," I think, did
you not ?' pursued the inquirer, not to be
daunted by Mrs. Alwyn's return to her
newspaper ; ' of course, Sydney is her
surname ?'

I beg your pardon. I said ' Sydney '
merely. She is Miss Alwyn.'

The same name as jour own then !*
Certainly.'

Related, then, to your husband ?'
Yes, and  to myself.'

Deceased wife's sister business,' thought
the astute questioner triumphantly, ' that
accounts for this woman's oddness !' 
Your niece, I presume ?' she persisted,
aloud.

My daughter, madam !' answered Mrs.
Alwyn, so sharply that her inquisitive
ladyship, who possessed a sense of the
ludicrous, couldn't refrain from laughter.

Why, bless the woman !' she cried, Mrs.
Alwyn looking daggers at the homely
expletive, ' why didn't you just tell me so
at first? I set myself to find out, because
I vowed 1 did hear her say "mamma,"
though the rest protested that only the
other one belonged to you.'

And so often and so keenly did Sydney

feel as if it were * only the other one ' who
belonged to her mother, that those sea-side
weeks dragged slowly along, and she
hailed with delight the first chance of returning
to the faces and occupations of
St. Clairs.

A clean bill of health was reported in
April, and Mrs. Alwyn, desiring to spend a
week at her brother's in Hampshire with
Leonora (three would be inconsistent
again) Sydney was permitted to return
and stay with the Dacier before they all
re-united at The Dale,

Nowhere had the girl been more missed
than at the Gate House, where she shone
always at her brightest, paying them in
every coin she could conceive for their
kindness to her earlier girlhood. Now
Mary received her joyfully with,

How well you are looking, and how
glad I am to have got you back !'

And the traveller, with a hug and a
kiss, answered,

Also, how glad I am to be back, but
how well you are not looking ! What s
the matter, Mary ? Has anything gone
amiss while I was away ?'

No,' Mary declared, ' nothing so very
particular,' but bit by bit, in the privacy
of upstairs unpacking, it came out how her
father was less equal to work than ever
that spring ; his lameness gained on him
so, and * mother,' who had never flagged,
but kept such a willing shoulder to the
wheel so many years, was not like herself.
The strain of all her middle-age was telling
on her now. And the 'boys,' long
since men, two married, one in Canada,
were getting less able, between growing
families and uncertain business, to give
their small aids to the old home, and so,
confessed poor Mary Dacie  permitting

herself the extraordinary luxury of five
minutes' collapse   It seems as if we are
all on the down-hill road together Sydney
dear; and sometimes I'm such a
goose I get miserable over it.'

To which Sydney, who had long dreaded
this state of things, could only return the
comfort of caresses. The outlook was
gloomy, she knew, so uninviting that she
must have been glad to quit its contemplation,
for, after some minutes diligent
unpacking, she changed the subject by
asking, most irrelevantly, if Mr. Drayton
lead been to St. Clairs while she was
away.

It was not often Sydney showed such
lack of sympathy. Mary Dacie sighed as
she answered ' No,' and she sighed again
as she smoothed her ruffled brown hair,
and stroked out of sight a few obtrusive
silver threads. What a foil she looked to

that girl in the sweet bloom of her twenty
years ! But she mustn't grow curmudgeonly.
Admirers ! Lovers ! these must he
pleasant pastures for young minds to stray
along. She wouldn't grudge them to
Sydney, even  with a sensation as of a
rising sob firmly subdued  even in the
shape of  Mr. Drayton, or Mr. Rupert
Villiers.

This latter gentleman, though debarred
from prosecuting his plans in person
through the spring, had not allowed himself
to be forgotten. Early in the year
each note to his Aunt Helen had contained
some special message for Sydney, unfailingly
delivered. About that date in
February when feathered monogamists
select their spouses for the coming spring,
a florist of Petersham (a stroke to please
the Major, that!) packed off a splendid
mass of sweet-scented lilies of the valley,

and the address, ' Miss Alwyn, The Dale,
St. Clairs was in Mr. Eupert's handwriting.
Reviews to her liking, magazines
many, found their way similarly to the
young lady at Bournemouth, in company
with society papers for her mother and
sister. And now, definite desire and
intention of success strengthened by the
propitious Christmas visit, Mr. Villiers
felt no hesitation in assuring his anxious
father that, spite of postponement, everything
was going on as right as a trivet,
and the paternal purse would probably be
drawn upon for wedding garments shortly
after midsummer.

Meanwhile, as the season was gay, and
likely to be his last free entirely from
petticoat control, the young man took
licence to treat his good resolutions for the
future pretty freely.

The singer who had once enthralled him

was far away now, enchanting dollars by
thousands from the rich citizens of another
continent, but her pedestal was not long
vacant. Small pink tickets for the Opera
Comique, and large, long bills for suppers
connected with the same ; companion
documents to Mr. Tufter's original one,
and a run of late hours over a green table
much best left alone ; these, to say nothing
of more legitimate indulgences, swelled a
debit account of considerable proportions
as weeks went by, and relied for settlement
mainly on Sydney's fortune. Since,
Hang it, you know thought Mr. Rupert,
five thousand, or four perhaps, will be
plenty to tie up. She'll like to do something
towards starting the domestic mill,
that'll be only fair. The rest we'll leave
loose as a sort of general fund.'

And over the manipulation of that
general fund Mr. Rupert's fingers itched

prospectively, after a fashion that boded
ill for its long existence, while for his first
visit to The Dale in May he began to look
impatiently as for a serious crisis in his
fate. But this crisis was yet to be put off
by doings we must halt to explain.

Among the elements of uneasiness underlying
Sydney Alwyn's young life was one
extremely common to mankind  the want
of money. Endowed with a quick eye to
other people's needs, a ready hand to help
them, it was no light bond to feel herself
always scantily provided with means to
this end, and in nothing was the contrast
of her nature to her mother s and sister's
more clearly shown than in this matter of
s. d.

Mrs. Alwyn would nail down the charges
of a laundress to the lowest farthing, and
travel miles, metaphorically, to save a
mite; Leonora invariably had headaches

on offertory Sundays at St. Glairs', and, as
Phillips would grimly say, was never
known to give away so much as her castoff
frilling, and neither lady grudged any
domestic screwing which would supply
means of external display ; while Sydney's
economies, contrariwise, began and ended
with herself. All she could garner up
went in channels she was not in the habit
of talking about, and many a rueful hour
it cost her to think that these savings were
so provokingly small.

Mrs. Alwyn, however, took good care
that only a very small portion of her
income should be wasted through Sydney's
proclivities, and so it came to pass that
the girl had to tax her native ingenuity to
make the most of the little she possessed.

She was making, one May morning, an
after-breakfast inspection of last winter s
garments, pondering over what could be

VOL. L T

spared to robe the convalescent Patty
Peggs, and two or three junior sisters,
lamenting secretly that she must not venture
on slicing up a suggestively-useful
serge, for fear her mother might not see
fit to replace it before cold weather came
again, when Phillips entered, and explaining,
' The bag was late this morning, miss.
Mistress sent this up here,' laid a letter on
the table.

Sydney's postal communications were
few. A glance at the old-fashioned business
envelope told her from whom this came 
Jacob Cheene. Glad to receive it alone,
since Mrs. Alwyn never saw the clerkly
superscription without annoyed comment,
she opened this missive of her father's old
friend, and prepared to read it undisturbed.

But the first sight of its news almost
took away her breath.

She always wrote to him simply and

freely, more freely perhaps than she could
ever speak to anyone at St. Clairs, and in
her last she had dwelt rather dolefully on
the poor famished home of her choir
invalid, wishing she could have given the
little pale-checked mortal a taste of sea-breezes
; though, as she had ended, wishes
were, alas ! vain  the surplus of her allowance
would go such a little way.

Now, in Jacob's letter, came this remarkable
response : 

It is like your own father's child, Miss
Sydney, to be looking after the poor about
you. He was as free as the day as long
as ever he was able, and I will make bold
to say you will copy him when you take
your own money. Your birth-day comes
next month, I know. I remember when
you were (born as well as yesterday. I
wish I were not too old a man to travel

T 2

over the country and bring you some
trifles you, and you only, would value.
But they shall get to you somehow, though
I may never live to shake hands again
with my dear master's daughter. And
please to remember that on June the
8th nobody prays more fervently for
prosperity to your six thousand pounds,
and for a long life for you to do good with
it, than

Your very true and dutiful friend,

Jacob Cheene.'

Six thousand pounds ! Her six thousand
pounds !

Whatever did the old clerk mean ?

Sydney flushed up and all her pulses
started off full gallop at the thought of
such wealth in her own hands. Patty Peggs
was clothed in blue serge instanter. The
damp, ill-drained domicile which the entire

family of Peggs inhabited was deserted :
they were transferred by magic, high and
dry, to a six-roomed house. The rector
had his blanket-club endowed, so he hadn't
to go begging every winter. The Dacier
oh !  with a great joyful inspiration  if
it were true ! But not a moment could
she wait without hearing if this extraordinary
fortune were really so near at
hand. Letter held tight, away she went
through her mother s boudoir, where she
heard voices.

The inner door was slightly ajar. Mrs.
Alwyn, reading aloud to Leonora something
the post had brought, heard nothing
of the light approaching step. Sydney
could not avoid catching the last
sentence.

We mean no offence, but seen' one of
us is wholly laid by now, and you know
full well, ma'am, how we've bore up again

our troubles from beginning' to end, we

humbly ask a trifle now and Sydney T

Mrs. Alwyn broke off, her face, in common
parlance, as black as a thunder-cloud
Why did you not knock ? Never  never
should you enter a room in that manner
when people are reading letters !'

I beg your pardon, mamma. I didn't
mean to interrupt you. Is yours a troublesome
one?'

 Ye  es  no  oh, no ! That is, nothing
particular. Merely a begging letter. Is
yours more important?'

The girl's bearing was so wonderfully
bright, for a moment Mrs. Alwyn thought
Mr. Yilliers had proposed in writing and
was certainly to be accepted.

It seems so to me, mamma. But if
you, for once, will read what Mr. Cheene
says, you can best tell me if it really is.'

Aud she laid the open epistle down for
perusal.

A suspicion of its contents came over
Mrs. Alwyn, but she read it slowly through
without a word, her face lowering at every
line. Then she folded and almost flung it
back to the owner.

Your true and dutiful friend is a most
meddlesome old man !' she said briefly.

Then it is true !' cried Sydney ; her
delight in the news not to be quenched
even by this reception of it : * Where, oh
where does the money come from,
mamma !'

From me. That is, if you will kindly
have patience and listen  ' for Sydney
uttered a bewildered ejaculation, ' from the
sum secured to me by marriage settlement.
You would have heard all in due time if
this ridiculous interference had not forestalled

the proper explanation. Mercifully,
your father put away a few thousands
for any family he might have ; until any
child or children came of age, the interest
was mine exclusively. I explained part of
this to you once before. Now when your
birthday arrives next month you are at
liberty to assume the control of the money,
six thousand pounds. I presume you will
expect to lay the interest out yourself
instead of leaving me to do so.'

Sydney looked almost aghast at the
prospect, after her very meagre allowance.
She felt such a person of property !

*Why, however much will it be,
mamma ?' she all but gasped.

Between two and three hundred a year ;
duty as Sydney barely restrained a delighted
note, 'you must of course pay properly for
your share of this home : while you stay in
it.'

But that will leave me rich !' cried
Sydney, ' if you take half, or even more.
Oh, mamma,' venturing to let a hand
drop on Mrs. Alwyn's shoulder, ' I can't
help being very glad. I hope it doesn't
vex you.'

 Vex me ! Oh dear no,' so drawing
up her handsome figure as to rid herself
of contact with that warm, eager young
hand : ' But naturally I don't exult
as you do. In a certain way, remember,
your gain is my loss. Now  ' with just
the glimmer of a sneer, 'of course you
want to carry your news to those Dacier.
Be sure and say it was merely antedated
by that garrulous old man. And 
Sydney,' as the girl turned away, chilled,
subdued, somehow she and her mother
could never either rejoice or mourn together,
as you pass the post-office, bring me half-a-crown's
worth of stamps.'

Thus did Mrs. Alwyn merge these wondrous
tidings in the current of the commonplace,
effectually damping her daughter's
pleasure for the hour. But it renewed
itself before long, and during the
May days that followed many and many
a superb castle did Miss Sydney rear on
the solid foundation of those six thousands.


It was while the full glamour of this
brilliant promise was upon her that Mr.
Villiers came down again, and felt himself
fairly checked by the frank innocence with
which his surprise and congratulations
were claimed.  I have such a piece of
news to tell you said Sydney, the first
minute she was with him alone. ' Something
I really think you will like to hear.
In quite a very small way I am actually a
little bit of an heiress, Mr. Villiers. Value
six thousand pounds !'

Love would have made no stumbling-block
of that speech but it put interest into
a quandary. Guiltily conscious of having
been very much indeed aware of the grand
fact all the way through, Mr. Eupert expressed
his satisfaction awkwardly and in
guarded phrase, (at which Sydney was
sorry, having counted on his sharing her
gratification more warmly ; she did so
want someone to be very glad at it,) and
the great question he had been determining
to ask her somehow stuck in his throat.

Holding conference with his aunt that
evening, 'Upon my honour,' he said, with
a sheepishness that was about the most
creditable trait yet recorded of him, ' when
a girl has just told you she is worth so
much a fellow can't decently make a dash
at it all in a moment. It would have been
better now if I'd spoken at Christmas. 
didn't I'll stake my luck on my next

coming. I can get my holiday just about
the birthday week, Aunt Helen, and bring
everything to the right end then

And as a man cannot be forced into proposing
against his will, Mrs. Alwyn could
only acquiesce.

She bestowed anything though but
benedictions on Mr. Cheene for his share
in this further procrastination !

CHAPTER XII.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS.

Verily, during the next two or three
weeks anyone would have found a difficulty
in impressing upon Sydney Alwyn that
money is the root of all evil.

On the contrary, it seemed the root
whence flowers of delight and comfortable
fruits innumerable must surely spring
forth. At any rate her share of this
earthly pelf was destined to a joyful career,
and as if determined to lose no time in
starting her income on a happy mission,
Sydney actually went boldly to her mother

the day after Eupert Villiers left, and
begged the loan of twenty pounds, to be
repaid out of the very first of those
mighty quarterly receipts she was anticipating.


This singular request arose out of an
-hour at the Gate-House that noon.

There, Mrs. Dacie instead of being as
usual actually at work or waiting on her
good doctor husband, was reported invisible
: actually and confessedly not well
enough to be downstairs, and the sunny
sitting room looked sadly empty, the master
grievously hipped and lonely without her
cheery presence.

She was not really ill. Oh, dear no !'
Mary said with anxious effort to believe
her own words, ' only tired : with the heat,
perhaps !' And Doctor Dacie watched his
thermometer, grumbling over the glorious
weather, very ready and desirous to

persuade himself that ten degrees less
warmth would quite restore his good wife,
deluding himself by any fiction, rather
than confess that the labours of making
both ends meet through many years was
revenging itself now on mind and body.

But Sydney could well read between
these poorly deceptive lines, and began
casting about how her new power could
amend the situation.

If the mother had taken a holiday in
the spring,' fidgeted the doctor, dense as
men so often are to the possibilities of the
family purse, ' she might have been set up
for the summer,' and lo, here was the rich
young woman's opportunity.

Why shouldn't she go now, Dr.
Dacie ?'

I want her to, my dear. Her sisters
in Warwickshire would have her any day,
but '

But mamma couldn't go so far,' broke
in Mary hastily, the colour mounting over
the lines on her fair kind face, ' I don't
mean '  as her father began ' pshaw !' 
I don't mean that she is too ill  but  '

And Sydney comprehended those ' buts '
as well as possible. The doctor had not
got all last Christmas's payments in yet,
few though they were. An active young
man from Edinburgh had settled at Oakleigh,
and was diminishing the scanty list
of patients every quarter. There was no
hoard laid by for holidays. No fund to
furnish change for the house mistress.
Why,' thought Sydney, hiding the sparkle
of her swift design behind the outspread
Standard, ' it seems as if I were made rich
on purpose for this 1' And not an hour
had she lost in securing from Mrs. Alwyn
that advance which was to speed Mrs.
Dacie on her health-seeking journey.

That Mrs. Alwyn demurred at the
loan, goes without saying. But Sydney,
in the strength of her new position, was
irrepressible. Between entreaty and persuasion,
backed by usurious offer, she carried
her point.

'If you lend me the money, mamma
she promised, when refusal seemed imminent,
' I'll give you that mirror from the
Hedyngham china-shop, with yellow roses
round it, for interest. Now !' and then,
pretending to joke at the bribe she had
every intention of accepting, Mrs. Alwyn
yielded. Off went Sydney, triumphant, to
Mary Dacie, and the upshot of a very
April interview was preparation for Mrs.
Dacie to have a whole fortnight's rest with
her sisters at Chaddeley, and the arch
conspirator's only regret was that nothing
could induce her friends to use more that
half the sum she brought them.

VOL. I. u

'If we want more we will ask for it
Mary promised ; so the solitary note went
into hiding against possible requirements,
and Sydney, in most infectiously high
spirits, haunted the Gate-House till its
mistress, with Mary to drive her to the
nearest station, was fairly started for what
St. Clairs folk called ' the sheers !'

'Good luck for all of us go with yoUy
Moll,' cried the doctor as Punch trotted
off.

And better still come back V cried Sydney
(how often she remembered that valediction
later on). And then she hovered,
as blithe as a bee, about the doctor,
beguiHug him into tales of when he and
his Moll were young, and what a pretty
woman she was, till by-and-by Mary came
smiling back, reporting her mother gone
off looking better already, and an eloquent
clasp of Sydney's fingers sent the girl

away so brimful of contentment she could
almost have cried for gratitude over her
golden thousands.

An evil ! Nay, that was downright
slander. Money was delicious. Delicious !
If this poor fraction had sent such circles
of relief rippling over one whole household,
what might the rest do ? It coloured
with a rosy hue even the dull neutral
tints of her home. If her mother should
smile over a china-framed mirror she
would often have cause to smile !

A great joyful perspective that  open
Sesame' of wondrous coin disclosed, and
the vanishing point was  Love! Surely
she could now do so much for so many,
and that should bo her payment. Such a
Jubilate stirred within her as she passed
the church as made the glitter of its windows
seem an invitation opportune and
not to be refused. A sacrilegious little

u2

male Peggs, playing surreptitious leapfrog
among the tomb-stones, was captured
and set to work at the back of the oroan
for the sum of twopence, and seated
before the keys Sydney herself, tears in
her eyes and her heart in her voice, sang
forth her gladness in a quaint psalm of
Bach's setting, found (incongruous enough
there) among her Father's few possessions.

Again and again the happy harmony
rang out. * Rejoice and be thankful !
Rejoice and be thankful !' And perhaps
in all the centuries that the wide winged
oak-carved angels had looked gravely down
from the timber roof no truer votive notes
had risen from below than these of Sydney
Alwyn's unselfish exultation.

Are you as happy as you sound ?' said
someone close by as she ceased singing, and
she discovered the rector, unseen, had been
her audience.

Well, I do believe I am,' lie answered,
blinking the tell-tale moisture from her
long lashes as she closed the organ and
released the curls-headed Peggs. * You
don't think me utterly childish for it, do
you?'

Nay,' he answered very kindly, knowing,
though not from her, something of
the Gate-House doings. ' You have every
right to revel in the present and what it is
bringing you. Only take an old man's
counsel. Don't set your heart on it too
much. Riches sometimes make themselves
wings and fly away.'

Ah, but,' she answered, ' mine shall not.
I mean to be a penurious old lynx and
never exceed my income.'

'Good!' laughed Mr. Vaughan, Mong
may this wisdom last. But  ' lapsing into
seriousness, ' if ever this money of yours
eludes your vigilance, if it melts away, let

the record of its use leave a pleasant
memory behind. For half soliloquising,
bachelor fashion, ' to have done sour best,
with all you had, so long as you were able ;
there's always comfort in that. Though
as Sydney's features reflected his grave
mood, ' I ought not to dose my pupil with
truisms to-day. I had been writing to
that friend Drayton and I spoke of and
fell quoting my attempts at consolation.
Now for something cheerfully. Will and
Ben,' (the boys had got their scholarships
and were away at school,) 'are doing
famously. The impudent lads sent word
they'll coach you when they come home in
July!'

So they shall,' said Sydney gladly,
though the dim by-flitting of that other
sorrow-tried life had made her heart ache
for a minute, ' and they shall both have
Geneva with backs that won't bend and

crystals that won't break, for their pains.
Tell them so, please.'

I shall do nothing of the sort, penurious
Miss Alwyn,' returned the rector, ' for fear
you should change your mind.'

I change my mind !' reproachfully.
But, Mr. Yaughan,' stopping short in the
church porch, ' is  is Mr. Drayton ever
coming to see you again ?'

He promised he would, but writes that
this property of his is in confusion. He
may turn out worth much less or much
more than he expected. I suppose he is
busy over that.'

I wish he would come,' said Sydney, and
the rector looked puzzled.

What, even now ?' he asked.

More now than ever,' said Sydney ; and
then went off, leaving her old friend wondering
what this wish for Richard Drayton
betokened, and whether it sounded

auspicious for that dark moustached young
man so often at The Dale, at whom his
even now ' had pointed, a hint, perhaps,
too indefinite to evoke response.

But taking license from the innuendoes
sowed by Mrs. Alwyn as part of her
tactics, other tongues were more outspoken,
and speeches at first bewildering, clearer
later on, greeted Sydney even as she went
home that day.

I'm wholly fearful we'll be a-losin' of
ye now, Miss,' said old Mrs. Hills, her
father's last attendant, to whom, in passing,
she mostly stayed and spoke. ' 'Taint
likely you'll be long here now.'

 Why not?' asked Sydney, unsuspiciously.
Some absurd version of her coming
fortune must have reached the old dame
she supposed. ' "Why should I go away ?
I don't want to.'

Ay, ay,' chuckled the old hody ' that's

only like the lady should say, but there's
them that won't fall in with it. "A thief,"
skin' pardon for the saying', " don't leave
his sack behind," now do he?' And then
Mrs. Hills, who was afflicted with asthma,
fell into such a fit of mirthful choking that
in simple charity her visitor nodded goodbye
and departed. Only, however, to
encounter equally mysterious words before
she had gone fifty yards further. For
round the corner of the village street
swept Lady Oomyngham's low phaeton,
herself, with the cockaded groom behind,
driving the handsome cream cobs, which,
much against their will, were reined in at
sight of Miss Alwyn.

*I have been at The Dale,' said the
Countess, leaning forward most amiably,
and was so sorry to miss seeing you. But
allow me to congratulate you now. I hope
this event will bring you much happiness*"

It was curious, thought Sydney, for her
mother, who all too evidently grudged this
division o income, to speak of it to
strangers, but so she must have done !
And, taking this as omen of pleasant
feeling between them, the girl thanked
Lady Oomyngham with warmth, and hoped
she might use the change so that no one
would have to repent it.

'Very, very becomingly said,' approved
the Countess, giving Sydney's shoulders a
coax with her whip. ' I trust you'll prosper,
I'm sure, though these matters are
dreadful lotteries, as I've told my girls.'

'When the Earl came into his fortune, I
suppose,' thought Sydney, answering with
such an air of unshakeable security, * I
hope there's not much of the lottery in my
case !' that the Countess, for all her fifty
years ups and downs, would not dishearten
her with any more wisdom of experience.

'Oh, well, well; she said (stand still,
Spitfire !'), * I presume this has been looked
forward to so long by all parties that you
feel safe of each other and sure of everything
going right. Make my felicitations
to  oh,' as the cobs took violent umbrage
at an approaching wheelbarrow, * these
creatures won't let a yeoman speak ! Goodbye,
Miss Alwyn.' as the pair curvetted
off. ' Come to Oakleigh some Saturday.
Both of you.'

Leonora too mused Sydney. And fell
wondering whether success would attend
that lofty scheme of her mother's, which
by now she understood, though no confidence
on the subject was extended to her.

On that point Mrs. Alwyn's hopes were
now in the zenith of hopefulness, for Mr.
Duvesne had been among the first callers
after their return. Ostensibly he came to
thank her for certain weekly doles supplied

from The Dale to an old couple in his
parish  Mrs. Alwyn's smallest light never
wasted a ray for want of being set on a
candlestick  but the delighted mother
marked how he reported progress of his
Rectory, lamented to Leonora that it was
not half what he wished 'for a lady.'
Would she look it through some day, with
Mrs. Alwyn and her sister ? Would she
tell him how it could be improved ? ' Of
course gazing about the handsome Dale
drawing-room, * it was nothing like this.
The old building and Miss Villiers' perfect

taste ' Mrs. Alwyn credited Leonora

with every suitable shape and shade on the
premises  'had made this unmatchable.
Honestly, The Dale ought to be part of the
Oakleigh estate, but he supposed the absent
owner would say " no " to that.'

Hereupon his hostess had returned that
she 171 propria persona was proprietor of The

Dale now ; she had completed the purchase
of her brother. And she hoped never to
part from it except to her elder daughter.
So, unluckily, the place must be burdened
with her Leonora !

'And a great improvement the burden
will be,' said Mr. Duvesne gallantly. *Pray
don't imagine I had any intention of robbing
these parts when I made my selfish
suggestion just now.'

With which the young clericus had
glided from the topic Mrs. Alwyn fondly
hoped he was approaching, into information
of a recent domestic event, interesting,
of course, to intimates only. His sister,
Lady Avena Massey, was the happy
mother of a little son, successor to four
sisters, the first grandson of the family, a
young man who had caused as much stir at
Oakleigh Place as in his native Staffordshire
home.

'My mother,' said the Honourable
Edward, laughing, ' has been fussing over
silver mugs, and the girls have been stitching
at some white garment long enough
for a grown-up ghost, and the people at
Barnes had been sending up gifts most
glaringly useless to a fortnight old baby  

*And why,' exclaimed Mrs. Alwyn to
Leonora, as soon as their informer was
gone, ' why should not I send something
that ivill be useful! At such a time it
must be accepted as a compliment. A son
is all very well. Even a small squire like
Mr. Massey wishes for one, I suppose.
But they will have to save money for him
to spend by and by, and they'll value
money's worth now all the more.'

The consequence of which happy inspiration
was the packing off to Barnes of the
deep-pointed breadth of costly guipure that
long ago had raised many a grand dame's

envy when displayed upon some velvet-fronted
dinner dress, and with it went a
cleverly worded note, making the offering to
the ' new, most precious boy in terms that
quite affected the unconscious little animal's
mother, drawing from her a tremulously
penciled acknowledgment of this gorgeous
christening robe, which the giver modestly
styled ' a trifle, better put to this delightful
use than allowed to lie by till moth
made food of it.'

The immediate result of this little
manoeuvre was precisely what Mrs. Alwyn
had calculated on. The Countess had
called and been most affable. Then had
Mrs. Alwyn let fall those somewhat premature
words concerning her younger
child, which she intended to turn to more
accounts than one. Ten days afterwards
a luncheon had followed at Oakleigh Place.
Quite a family affair. No other strangers

than Leonora and her mother, Sydney (for
once to Mrs Alwyn s complete approval)
being* tied to an engagement in the parish ;
and Lady Comyngham had commented on
Leonora's pink and white colouring,  Apple
blossom she called it, adding, ' it was the
very complexion gentlemen admired. Her
son Edward had spoken of it. He fancied
he had particular reason to think it beautiful.
Some day Mrs. Alwyn would see if
he was right !'

In expectation of that day Mrs. Alwyn
had to wait, hiding intense excitement
under outward calm. But she drove her
pair of plans along the daily course with
the skill of a cool head and a firm
hand. It was desirable  best  kindest 
that Sydney should be detached from the
The Dale. This she never lost sight of fora
moment. And the sooner the better.
The, if this other business lagged she

could invoke the aid of little diplomatic
shifts, shadows of shams that the younger
daughter's honest-eyed presence made
difficult, or impossible. Sydney safely
away would be a restraint well gone.
Therefore, though the girl in her new-born
elation was difficult to depress, Mrs.
Alwyn took some pains to make her feel
that she considered the partition of property
a fresh partition of interests, pleasures,
affections, and let her distinctly foresee
that the Sydney of the future would
be more isolated in her home than the
Sydney of the past.

So counter ran all this to the semi-heiress's
deepest desires  she who had so
yearned for love that even she wanted to
buy it !  that there is small wonder if it
drove her straight on to the result intended,
and if when Mr. Rupert Yilliers came
down armed  for this was to be his grand

VOL. I. X

attack !  with the very rose she bad been
longing for, and the most attractive manner
be could don, she received him as
readily as thirsty leaves a shower !

And well the young man played the last
round in bis band. Marriage, or some
means of clearing up with bis creditors,
was imperative. That remembrance filled
him with keenly nervous energy. By now
those often repeated insinuations were unfolding
their meaning to Sydney.

What did they mean to her ? Was she
glad, or sorry ? As yet she could tell
nothing. She was dazzled : bewildered.
But the new mood touched her with such
peculiar grace that Mr. Villiers's prearranged
attentions came very easy to
him ; and made the moment that should
end this Act the First seem very alluring.

Beyond his second day with them the
moment surely would not have been

delayed, delightful as was the dallying on
the verge of confident conquest ; but
once again accident played him an unkind
trick.

A line from the Gate-House called
Sydney there, and sent her back in
distress.

Mr. Villiers was on the lawn, watching
for her, she felt, as she returned, and to
him she confided the trouble.

Mrs. Dacie went out for a holiday that

was to do her so much good, now she is ill

and longing to get home. But her

sisters write that it is impossible for her

to travel alone, and ask if Mary can go for

her. But of course she cannot, for Doctor

Dacie is just helpless without her. Oh,

Mr. Villiers, I am so fond of Mrs. Dacie

and so sorry about it all. And I do so

want to ask mamma to let me go for her,

but  I dare not !'

x2

And the beautiful eyes looking up under
their black fringe said "Ask for me !" A
petition that Mr. Yilliers, seeing in it
occasion out of which he could make capital,
answered promptly :

Let me be your envoy to my aunt and
make it smooth with her. Where is she ?
I'll soon get her to say " yes." '

And this, by what seemed legerdemain
to Sydney, he actually achieved, and
noon saw her off on the hasty Samaritan
journey.

Mr. Villiers drove her to Hedyngham,
Hills vis-a-vis laboring all but commonplace
talk. But when Sydney was
ensconced in the stuffy luxury of a first-class,
her charioteer leaned on the window,
reminding her :

You will be sure to return for Friday ?'

Before then, most likely,' blushing at
his anxious expression.

For I've something most particular I
want to give you then.'

I shall be home.'

'And I shall want to ask you something,
too !'

Yes ?' nervous, and deeply crimsoning
again.

Do you think I deserve anything for
helping to send you away when I  wanted
you at The Dale ?'

You deserve a great deal for getting
me leave to go to poor Mrs. Dacie.'

A great deal ? Then you are grateful
to me ?' The train was moving off, but he
paced by it, looking under the brim of her
brown hat at her downcast eyes. ' Grateful
? Yes, very.'

Then, Sydney, when you come back I
shall ask for my reward !'

CHAPTER I.

FRESH FIELDS.

Despite her presumably vegetable mission,
Sydney's journey through that long June
afternoon was the very reverse of sad.

The mere sensation of rapid transit
was exhilarating. The sight of the broad
Suffolk acres, their grassy wealth rippling
like sea waves under every passing breeze,
now shadowed by clouds, now gleaming
out again under the glorious sunshine,
seemed a mute harvest-song of grateful

VOL. II. B

earth, that found a silent echo in her own
thankful breast.

Mrs. Dacie was not reported so very ill.
Likely as not, calculated Sydney, knowing
her well, her new malady was only a great
restless home-sickness that could easily
make prey of such a householder as she,
for close on forty years, had been.

If only this, then the magic of the gold
stored away in Sydney's purse would soon
furnish the medicine of speedy return.
If by ill hap anything more serious
impended, still the coming fulness of
that same purse would surely be able to
level some difficulties, smooth some cares
away.

So, resolutely refusing the situation any
very seamy side, but rather painting it
with colours off the palette of her own
bright present, Sydney sped along by
homestead, village, field ; past sleepy little

towns basking by riverside in hollows of
the landscape : effected, by aid of a friendly
porter, a most complicated change at
such a junction of perplexing lines as
would have driven the invalid, unescorted,
clean demented: swept by a grand cathedral,
with uprising lantern so stern and
solemn that it for the moment awed the
buoyancy of her spirit into something akin
to prayer: and glided into mid-England,
unwearied by miles or hours, having within
her, plus recounted pleasures, a something
secret, surpassing all ; a mixed mystery of
hope and expectation that sufficed to
annihilate space and time for that one exciting
day.

Those last glances of Rupert Villiers !
His last words ! What had they meant?

Why, one thing. One only. That, the
message rarely heard unmoved.

All the journey's length his farewell

b2

entreaty for her quick return followed her,
ringing like music in her ears. For her to
be so wanted back ! For her to hold the
power of adding to or taking from the
happiness of this man's life ! For her to
have an unmistakeable assurance of what
awaited the next day's meeting in his 
Then Sydney I shall ask for my reward !'
Such a heralding was here of summons
from the unfettered fields of girlhood into
the happy bondage of woman's royal domain,
that her whole nature trembled
while it glowed at the prospect, and any
attempt at calmly judging her own emotions
was lost in the all but mystic new
conditions that environed her.

The glow of afternoon was melting into
evening when Sydney was set down at her
destination. Stranded at the small station
of the very rural town that, with quite
respectable hills in the background and

stone-built dwellings in lien of East
Anglia's interminable brick and plaster,
had half a foreign look, she found any
arrival from St. Clairs so far unexpected
that no one was at hand to meet her.

Cabs being luxuries unknown at Chad-delay
unless by special command from the
leading hostelry, she had first to inquire
her way to the abode of Miss Thorne and
Mrs. Carew, spinster and widow sisters of
Mrs. Dacie, and then make her way
thither afoot, independently carrying her
own light impedimenta.

The long street traversed and the
modestly well-to-do domicile looking out
on its own croft from windows framed in
ivy and monthly roses, discovered at last,
Sydney's unannounced appearance on the
trim pink-begirt lawn scared the good
people, at whose bidding she had come,
amazingly.

The trio were out of doors, rusticating
in an arbour cut from a hedge of yew.
Mrs. Carew, a plump elderly likeness of
Mrs. Dacie, ensconced in a garden seat of
many angles, was taking time by the
fore-lock and knitting flaming scarlet
comforters for next winters service.
Miss Thome, larger, longer, more determined
of aspect, sat bolt upright on a
three-legged stool, reading monotonously
the poetical effusions of a local genius, un 
observant of the fact that the invalid
sister for whom this intellectual treat was
especially spread had fallen into a peaceful
doze in her easy chair, under the
soporific influence of drowsy rhymes and
the buzzing of clouds of insects.

With the unlatching of the gate the two
wakeful ladies were on the alert.

At sight of Sydney, travelling-bag in
hand, both hastened forward, careful not

to rouse their sister, and offered a welcome
mingled with confused surprise.

c My dear whispered Mrs. Carew, in her
agitation trailing her knitting after her
like a fiery serpent, ' how glad we are to
see you ! But we didn't expect you  I
mean we never thought you could get here
so soon. You see your dear mother  but
' stopping short as a smile played over
the visitor's countenance, ' I  1=  beg your
pardon ! I must be mistaken. 7s it Mary ?
Mary Dacie ?'

I Certainly not, Louisa,' interrupted Miss
Thorne in peremptory undertone. ' How
could you make such a blunder ? Kindly
excuse us,' apologising with dignity, ' we
were rather expecting a young relative my
sister had not seen for many years. But
may I inquire who  or to what we are
indebted '

I I am only Mary Dacie's friend, Sydney

Alwyn,' was the straightforward reply to
this embarrassed questioning. 4 Perhaps
you may have heard my name from Mrs.
Dacie.' Both sisters set up an affirmative
murmur. 'As Mary cannot leave her
father very well I came instead of her, to
take Mrs. Dacie back if she is able to go.
But,' glancing toward the arbour, ' she
does not look worse. Is she? We were
frightened about her when your letter
came.'

6 Indeed, so were we when we sent it ;'
returned Miss Thorne very emphatically,

c but we never meant to upset them at St.

Clairs. We are so vexed if we did. It is

so good of you to come, Miss Alwyn.

We do hope it has not inconvenienced

you!'

But we felt it our absolute duty to write,'

said Mrs. Carew, when poor Mary Ellen

had those dizzy attacks.'

And seemed to pine after her husband's
doctoring so extraordinarily,' put in the
spinster.

Which was only natural,' added the
widow lady, c but dizziness, Miss Alwyn,
as our father, who was a physician forty
years, used to say, dizziness may mean anything,
from bile to apoplexy.'

And we felt the responsibility so great
we were forced to let them know the true
state of the case !'

Not that poor Mary Ellen actually asked
us to write for her daughter, you understand,
Miss Alwyn, only  '

Well ' only,' as Sydney could clearly
gather from the explanatory duet they
poured forth in lowered key for full five
minutes, this timid feminine household had
fussed and fumed itself into a violent state
of alarm over its guest's condition, and
had evidently jumped at the idea of getting

her safely back to her own home, though
in the presence of this generous young
stranger they felt a little bit ashamed of
the course they had somewhat selfishly
adopted. They were very voluble, though,
in mutual exculpation, repeating over andover
again how they would both ' do anything
for dear Mary Ellen but  if anything
were to happen !' and at that solemn
juncture, ' Mary Ellen' woke up suddenly
woke up and added her quota of
astonishment to Sydney's reception. Once
assured however that no horrible calamity
at St. Clairs had sent her young neighbour
to her side, the invalid was so genuinely
delighted at the sight of her that she most
readily condoned the exaggerated fears
which had fetched her thither.

My dear,' confessed Mrs. Dacie, after
the sisters had left them, with anxious
injunctions to come in soon, for the sun

was going down; 'My dear, the very sound
of your voice seems like part of my own
people and makes me better; but do you
know I was miserably shaky last week, and
I think we all frightened one another I
Being so little together for so many years
you see we had forgotten each other's
ways. They  ' with a nod towards the
house  ' meant to be kindness itself, but
except when I could induce Maria to read
this young linen draper's poetry to me,
she could talk of nothing but my
symptoms, and seemed determined to make
out I was going to have a fit ! And poor
Louisa, Mrs. Carew, my dear, was so
particular over everything I ate and drank,
that it was coming to my never relishing
a thing at all. They  very thoughtfully,
I'm sure, and quite at their own expense  -
brought a young doctor in to see me unexpectedly,
and Sydney, it seemed so

dreadful to have anyone but my own husband
asking me  questions  I was quite
overcome. I expect it was then they
wrote. To tell the truth I'm not sorry
they did. If, dear child caressing
Sydney's hand, ' it has not put you about
too much making the journey for me !'

'And that it has not done the very least,'
the girl hastened to answer. Here was
someone else (blushing over that un-uttered
else') tender and kind to her. Notes of
love seemed ringing like joy-bells about
her to-day ! ' If you like having me it is
only just a summer excursion, and ' 
making light of what she had done  'as
all the scenes are fresh to me it ought to
give plenty to remember and profit by !'

Which words, afterwards recalled, were
to sound like some elfish prophecy, their
whole fulfilment hid for many a day in
darkest cloud.

'Mary Ellen,' here cried Miss Thome
from 'her window. 'Our sister Louisa
thinks there's going to be a dew !'

4 Which means we must go in,' said Mrs.
Dacie rising obediently. ' I transgressed
one evening, it was so soft and warm, and
I got sent to bed in disgrace, and was
made to swallow some prevention posset
that turned me queer for four-and-twenty
hours ! I am afraid we three old ladies
have been three old worries to each
other !'

And Sydney, though quite ready to deny
the imputation as far as the speaker was
concerned, was soon forced to admit its
truth with respect to the others.

For her advent, in place of Mary's, had
thrown each hostess into a trying ferment
of hospitality. Arrangements that would
amply have sufficed for an own niece
were entirely inadequate to the reception

of a complete stranger, and such a stranger
as their sister had represented this to
be. Miss Alwyn, the liberal, well-dowered
young lady from that very superior residence,
The Dale, must see that Mary
Ellen, though now unfortunately narrowed
in her means, belonged to people who
understood, and had means for, proper
entertainment. So a flutter of hasty preparation
pervaded the house as the pair
from the garden entered. Much chinking
of the best plate, unwrapped from rustling
folds of tissue paper, was audible from
one room. Miss Thome, her every-day
stuff gown exchanged for creaking brown
silk, was caught surreptitiously polishing
up the best silver tea-pot in another. A
half-open door, closed by some unseen
jerk, discovered Mrs. Carew, her cap-strings
pinned back, presiding over the
concoction of an omelette whose savoury

odours soon overpowered the pleasant
fragrance of monthly roses. One little
serving-maid was sent racing off to the
nearest farm for cream, ' which,' bouncing
presently into the trim drawing-room,
1 please mum, I couldn't get nohow,' she
announced, 'cause it hadn't been spoke
for overnight.' Another stumped to and
fro the dining-room, visibly changing,
with a cautious speed that evoked much
laboured breathing, the crockery of the
every-day supper-table for that precious
best china service whose rare use was a
deep anxiety to all concerned. With profuse
regrets at there being no late dinner
prepared, ' which could easily have been
had we at all expected you, Miss Alwyn !'
supper was proceeded with, sounds of
rumbling and scuttling hither and thither
overhead, meanwhile betokening action
upstairs on the visitor's behalf. An

ominous tumble and a shrill squeal compelled
Mrs. Carew, with a ' please excuse
me,' to hurry aloft, to return however
with the gratifying news it was only Susan
had collapsed under a mattress.

1 Our house is so small,' she explained,
we have only one good-sized spare room.
And that being west, you see dear Mary
Ellen must have it.'

With her tendencies, you understand,'
said Miss Thorne, ' the morning sun on
her asleep might have serious effects.'

4 And of course we couldn't think of
putting you in the little south room that
would have done for Mary,' chirped the
widow.

'So we have made the necessary changes,
and put you in our east room ; we can go
anywhere !' said the spinster, with cheerful
resignation. 'And do you like your
head north or south, Miss Alwyn. Susan

and Betsy and my sister Louisa and I will
lift the bed any way you choose, with
pleasure

Any room and any bed and her head in
any direction would equally have suited
Sydney, but on that and a score other
points she had to express an opinion
before her fidgety hostesses would be
content, and by the time she was allowed
to go to rest she felt as if many days
of such assiduous politeness would try
her as much as it had done poor Mrs.
Dacie.

But the mild trial was not to last days,
only hours, and those even fewer than at
first arranged.

Thursday was to see her returning with
Mrs. Dacie. She sent a brief note home
to that effect. At Wednesday's breakfast-table
its president and vice-president received
her with perturbation. They had

VOL. II. c

sent everywhere and could get no eggs !
Would Miss Alwyn manage without them ?
Fish only came round once a week. That
on Thursdays. Miss Thorne had gone
herself to the only grocer's in Chaddeley for
some coffee. It might be poor but it was
the best to be purchased. They and Mary
Ellen took tea. They didn't allow Mary
Ellen coffee. With her habit it was too
heating.

But they so wished to provide what Miss
Alwyn liked. And would she mind dining
early, and would she like lamb? They
might be able to get a joint in the next
village. If she preferred poultry, they
would send to a mill two miles off for a
chicken. Provoking to relate and
unusual) they had only a little cold meat
in the house.

Which will do  ' began Sydney, but
was interrupted with 

Certainly not ! Lamb or chicken it
must be for you, Miss . Alwyn ! Unfortunately
the peas are not forward enough
to gather. I can't think why they are so
late.'

4 My dear,' said Mrs. Carew quite gravely,
' they couldn't tell Miss Alwyn would
be here.'

Of course not, Louisa, but they should
not be behind. However you must whip
some cream yourself for Miss Alwyn, with
the gooseberry tart. If it had only been
Friday now we could have offered her a
Lutterthorpe cream-cheese.'

1 Lutterthorpe,' repeated Sydney, ' I know
that name. It is close to Guyswick.' It
was indeed the hamlet where her old
Nurse, Taffy, had lived. c Is it far from
here ?'

1 An hour or so by rail, I think ; we

c2

never go down that way answered Mrs.
Carew. ' But the cheeses are only made
on Fridays, I'm afraid.'

c I was not thinking of them,' said
Sydney, c but  ' but rather of how delightful
it would be to ease this household of
her too clearly disturbing presence, and go
forward to those regions of her childhood's
holidays, thence perhaps to a glimpse of
Guyswick, or even as far as Stillcote-
Upton and Jacob Cheene. Whether she
might venture on the full programme she
must settle when started, but its first stage
alone was too enticing to be rejected.
Mrs. Dacie, consulted, saw no reason why
she should not revisit her old haunts,
chance brought her so near by. The
sisters made a bad band at concealing,
they were glad to be released of extra
prandial preparations, and so, cheerful on
all counts, ten o'clock saw Sydney on

the wing again, though only by a sluggard
train which, dawdling along some thirty
minutes, then set her down at a country
junction, to wait another half-hour before
getting on to Lutterthorpe.

Waiting was no hardship, though, on
this brilliant summer morning. Her mind
busy with remembrance of yesterday, with
anticipation of tomorrow, though shrinking
still from too close analysis of her own
heart's desires, Sydney paced up and
down, gazing at the rising hills and fruit-clad
slopes that seemed to smile recognition
at her, hearing, almost sharing the
glad carolling of the larks soaring overhead.
Presently, sauntering back from the
platform's limit, she found a companion in
delay. A dog-cart was just being driven
from the asphalted yard; a tall man, alighted
apparently therefrom, was standing by
the inmost roof-supporting beam. The

station-master beside him was saying as
she drew near : 

You can go in five minutes, sir, if you
take the loop line. But the mail by Still-cote
gets to your place nigh as soon.
That'll come through in twenty minutes.'

Thanks. I should greatly prefer the
first,' answered the traveller in a voice that
arrested Sydney's attention. Resonant,,
pleasant, sad. Sounding, moreover, like
some full note out of  it must be dreamland
!

1 If you like to sit down, sir, the room's

empty -'

I would rather stay just where I am.'
c Then if you stop still, sir, I'll sure to
come with your ticket when your train
runs in.'

And the civil functionary went off with
a touch of the hat, checked before it
had reached its full proportions. Sydney

went by to the end of her planked
tether; returned and glanced furtively at
the stranger. Had she ever met him
before ? He leant, arms folded, against
the upright beam, a broad-framed figure
of something more than common height,
well enough dressed, but without a suspicion
of the petit maitre about him (what
made recollection of Rupert Yilliers measure
itself by him for a moment, to a disadvantage),
a face powerful but not
ungentle, brown moustached and bearded,
hair chestnut, eyebrows darker still, drawn
together over a resolutely down-bent gaze.
Sydney passed close beside him. Not fora
moment were his eyes lifted. She loitered
on slowly, then turned back. He stood
there, still as a statue. As she advanced
a troop of people drove up and seized on
the station-master for details of "Welsh
touring tickets, while their luggage was

wheeled on the platform in such a way as
to bar the progress of a countryman with
a huge basket of live fowl.

4 If I parent go one way I maun go the
t'other !' cried this individual, essaying to
pass in front of the yet immovable stranger ;
1 now then, master, stir up, won't ye, an
let a body go by !'

Thus adjured the gentleman started,
moved abruptly in the wrong direction,
and was within an ace of stumbling some
four feet down on the metals below.

Hold up !' cried Hodge, offering a not
unfriendly shove to safer latitudes. 'Mind
where you're a-going' to ! Seems to me ' 
apostrophizing Sydney, who involuntarily
sprang forward, 'a chap as can't step
straight afore noon-time ought to be
'shamed of himself, 'kept he be ha-a-lf
blind P

And he grumbled himself off, with his

cackling freight, as the obstructor, ibis
shoulder once more by the post of safety,
muttered, 4 Half! Would it were only
half !' And Sydney, halting quite near
him, saw with an access of profoundest
pity that his thickly-lashed eyes, turned
full upon her now, were absolutely sightless
; the light of day to him only darkness !
Such a thrill of pain ran through her as
she realised this, it seemed downright
cruel to pass him by without one sign of
sympathy. A rattling of points and shrill
approaching scream announced the train
he waited for. "With snorts, as of exhausted
efforts on such a hot day, the engine
came puffing in. * Late !' cried the guard,
briskly, * hurry up there, porter !' In the
distance the six tourists were all clamouring
for a reduction of fare. Carriage doors
began closing. But the stranger Sydney
watched seemed forgotten. With a wistful

sigh lie moved this head now right, now
left, as with old habitual gesture of full
vision. It seemed as if he would be left
behind. But this was more than the girl
could suffer. Obedient to an instinct of
courageous courtesy she went quite up to
him and spoke. c I think I heard you say
you wished to go by this train. May I
show you to a carriage ?'

He turned towards her voice. ' I
should be very grateful, but '

There was no time to lose. ' Which
class ?' asked Sydney.

The colour rose to his forehead. ' It
must be third.' ' Then,'  sue could not
say 'follow me,' so boldly placing her
hand within his arm, c this way, please.
I am holding the door open. The compartment
is empty. Now,' as he took
his seat, ' will you allow me to fetch your
ticket ?'

But this service was not demanded.
Up rushed the station-master w r with the
needful passport. Sydney, releasing her
hand, drew back with cheeks unnecessarily
tingling, as her companion stooped nearer
than he perhaps knew.

I am very thankful he said, ' for your
kindness. It is difficult to get used to
being helpless.'

At the patient gravity of his manner
tears sprang to her eyes.

'Ah, that it must be !' she murmured ;
1 1 wish  ' i I could have done more she
would have said, but the guard was calling
out 'stand back!' With a shriek, off
went the locomotive. His hat raised in
farewell, the stranger was borne away,
and Sydney devoted her few more minutes'
loneliness to a vain hunt through
memory's hiding-places for 'some clue to

an identity not altogether unknown, she
felt convinced.

But she was still in a labyrinth on the
matter when her own train rushed in, and
having taken her place in a second-class
(prudently enconomisiug for return with
Mrs. Dacie : even ten-pound notes have an
send !) her one fellow-journeyed occupied
her attention for the half-hour they were
together.

After few instants' comprehensive inspection
travellers naturally make of each
other, leaving in this case an impression
of a person of early middle-age, homely
and yet refined, denoted a gentlewoman by
simple propriety of dress, none too rich,
by the exquisite mending of her well-worn
gloves, Sydney would have returned to
meditating and watching westward for a
first sight of the Malvern hills, but from
the opposite corner came the question soon:

1 Will you allow your window to be
open as well as mine, if you please ?'

'Certainly suiting the action to the
response, 'it is warmer than an hour or
two ago.'

1 Oh, very hot indeed. Dreadful for
travelling !'

Now, I thought it delightful !' said
Sydney, smiling.

Which shows you bound on pleasure
said the lady, with good humour not untinged
by envy, and the somewhat querulous
sigh she ended with bespoke some
species of soothing, such as Sydney, out of
her present mood, could well spare.

I hope you are not bound on anything
sad,' she said, quite earnestly, desiring
no more encounters with sorrow that
morning.

'Well, sad, no was the answer, rather
with the air of talking being a relief, ' I've

only come away from something disappointing,
as a good many things in this
world are. I have been a good many miles
and spent a good many .shillings for nothing.
Which is provoking
Indeed it must be.'
Do you know Northampton ?'
'Not at all. I am from the east of
England.'

It was Northampton I went to yesterday.
By appointment. To meet a lady
I had corresponded with. A widow.
Just the person who would have suited so
well as  well, companion, or  to share
our home. I thought I had got exactly
what I wanted; then when we had our
interview, the exasperating woman could
only turn red and simper like a school-girl,
and tell me she was going to get married
again !'

At this Sydney broke into smiles  ' It

was too bad of her, though,' she confessed ;
I think a telegram ought to have spared
you your journey.'

1 Just what I told her ! And what
makes seeing her all the more annoying is
that I'm sure she would have suited
excellently. Nice voice : liked reading ;
and most of all, wanted a home more than
salary. Oh, dear ! I wish this man
had been at Hong-Kong before she'd met
him.'

Let us hope you will find someone else
just as fitting. There must be plenty such,'
said Sydney.

Ah, but not to be found when you want
them. And I really must have someone.
There are circumstances  but I won't
trouble you with those unless you know
anyone who would fill the situation. I'm
sure I would try and make her happy !'

Evidently a kind woman, thought

Sydney. Not very intellectual, but housewifely
i! comfortable." If ever dear, distant
Mary Dacie needed a home  long
might that day be coming !  here might-have
been one for her. But to mention
this fancy would be absurd. So she could
only answer that she had no such treasure
on the roll-call of her acquaintance, but
would remember the want, c a good reader
  a good voice  and very little salary.'

'But a good home,' put in the lady,
charmed by Sydney's interest. 'I really
may say that if she doesn't mind some 
peculiarities, I know I would try and make
her like it.'

'I think you would,' agreed Sydney,
but if I ever found this valuable person,
whom should I direct her to ?'

Oh dear, I have no card about me, but
my address is here,' drawing an envelope
from her satchel : ' You stop at Lutter-thorpe

?' as the train slackened speed.
I must say good-day then. I wish you
had been going into Herefordshire with
me.'

She closed with a regretful handshake.
Then Sydney alighted at the Lutterthorpe
station, and as the train sped away into
distance, read concerning her friend of few
minutes that she was 4 Miss Hurst, Vanstone,
Capel Moor, Hereford.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER II.

AND THE FRUITS THEREOF.

LuTTERTHORrE, the hamlet by the busy,
active little Letter or Luter, that ran for
miles gleaming in and out near by the
railways, as if bent on excelling its newfangled
rival, Lutterthorpe lay basking in
the glow of almost noon when Sydney
Alwyn once more threaded her way
through lanes her footsteps had not
known for nigh three-quarters of her young
life's years.

It had not altered much in all that time,
or its changes lay lower than the surface ;

Guyswick she could scarcely remember,
but this, an enchanted village full of select
delights to childhood , she had d ot forgotten .
As she went with quick throbbing enjoyment
up once familiar paths, the very
cottages with their specialities, a row of
silky-seeding poplars here, the hollow
willow there, anon a bank covered with
blue-eyed periwinkles, as of yore, seemed
to beam amiable recognition on her.
Farther up she could have laughed aloud
at sight of ' The Rampant Lion ' wearing
the self-same expression that once upon a
time had alarmed her into suspicion that
he might turn alive and come down from
his sign, with such artistic craft was depicted
the grin bestowed by the noble animal
on the unwary folk who entered his enticing
portals !

Past the school, where the children
came trooping and shouting out as she

d2

went by, just as they did at twelve o'clock
when she was small, and their riotous
exit gave nurse and her the time of day y
and there was the church, so different in
its sombre solidity of lichen-tinted stone
from the well-wearing freshness of eastern
counties frequent rubble and flint. And
round about the silent walls the many
tombs were  ah, after all it only seemed a
little while ago !  she had learned from
Taffy ' that ' widow ' must not be encumbered
with two des and, by the
testimony of numerous ' hie facets, that
never an a must intrude in 'Here lieth.'

Almost the kind, quavering old voice
sounded in her ears again. Almost she
could feel the clasp of the old brown hand
about her wrist.

She turned longingly to the humble
homestead across the grassy lane,  the
very same, with humming bees about it

and apple trees grown shadier and bigger
with half an expectation of seeing her
old nurse, white coffee and mob-capped,
still in her sunny corner, clicking away
with glittering pins at some mysterious
manufacture in Welsh wool, destined for
the engagement of Mrs. Lewis's legs !

But there the disillusionment began.

Nurse's favourite bench was tenanted
now by a rabbit-hutch, whereof the dappled
inhabitants worked their long ears and
pliant little noses about most interrogatively,
as she traversed the box-bordered
path, but no other welcome was accorded
Sydney from her once holiday haunt.

A woman of totally unfamiliar form and
features opened the door to her knock, and
looking with wonder on the young
stranger lady, answered her enquiry with
a surprised : 

Lewis ! Why no, miss. There's been

no Lewis live here this long while. "Weare
Wades. There was a one, Lewis byname,
but he went out afore the two
people afore us. So I've heard.'

Went out!' And a long time ago!
This shifting of occupants seemed next to
impossible : so utterly incongruous with
the unaltered outward aspect of the place.
Sydney looked very blank. She had been
picturing to herself, unreasonably may-be
some glad astonishment at her appearing.
This check overcast her, and threw
her off the proposed lines of her day's
excursion.

'Lewis is gone!' she repeated slowly;
1 But  ' half afraid to put the question for
fear of possible reply, ' he is living ? And
still here, here at Lutterthorpe ?'

Oh, he be here or hereabouts, miss,'
answered the woman, ' though where's he's
dwelling' I can't rightly point you. We're

naught but fresh here ourselves, and I'm
not much of a one to neighbour and get
the news. We only took this place last
Lammas.'

Tha-n-k you,' said Sydney, beginning
to turn away ruefully. The cottage
interior was not inviting now. With no
one who cared to see her there would be
no sense in stopping about it.

But the woman lingered, latch in hand,
so she explained to her.

1 1 used to come here often when I was
younger. And I made a journey this
morning on purpose to look at it all again.
I suppose I foolishly calculated on seeing
the people in it just as when I last left.'

'Which, skin' your pardon, was like
reckoning' of your chickens afore they was
hatched, miss !' returned Mrs. Wade, taking
the proverb of her calling, apparently,
for matronly hens with numerous progeny

were now scraping about the once tidy
garden.

True enough,' Sydney agreed, self-convicted
; ' and you cannot even tell me
then which way I must go to find Lewis's
house. I did so wish to see some of
them.'

1 Oh, if you'd like to see 'em or leastways
see the man. miss,' said Mrs. Wade,
the young lady's desires just finding
their way to her slow brain. ' why you can
do that easy without tracking' after where
they live. I know him jest by sight. And
I see him go by not half-an-hour ago.
An' he turned in at yon gate. The piece
there where they be cutting green stuff for
the cows.'

This sounded better. With a cheerfully
' thank you ' Sydney, took the route
indicated. A running stream on one side 
she had dipped her toes in many a time, a

bank with huge primrose leaves drooping
in the heat the other, fairy ground for the
age of five, greeted her like some long
laid-by picture. Nothing lacked but the
saluting ' Miss Sydney, dear.' Wanting
that, a chill of loneliness crept over her,
rebuked, as she passed the outer length of
Lewis's old garden and the stile she had
often climbed, by a swift thought of that
other so far greater loneliness, which had
crossed her road as it were a moment that
same day, and then gone by, lost, in a
sightless solitude.

c While I have everything !' she chid
herself, half aloud, and, with the abundant
measure of these good gifts upon her
mind, turned in at the green acre to which
she had been directed.

Two men at the extreme end were
reaping fodder. One a lad : the other a
burly figure well into years, working with

a will, not in the easy-going 
a day style of the ordinary labourer.
That looked like Lewis, she fancied. He
had always been the very soul of industry.
Probably he had prospered. Had got a
dairy now beside his market-garden. Yes,
certainly that must be Lewis. But she
would wait to claim him till he drove his
nearly laden cart up to the gate by which
she stood. Then she would stop him.
Puzzle him at first. Afterwards tell him
who she was. Perhaps he would take her
off proudly to some finer home than his
old one. And it was just within the
range of possibility the ' Taffy ' of old
times might yet be there with a c who is
it? My child, little Sydney! Has she
come again, bless her !'

Meantime, while her youth was thus
making light of Mrs. Wade's wise saw the
sud was beating down strong upon her ;

the air was getting sultry, vibrating now
and again with sounds as of a distant
storm.

Casting about for some shade, she
found it beneath a wide-spreading elm,
whose knotted and mossy trunk offered a
pleasant resting-place, whereon she gladly
seated herself, a pretty enough picture as
of typical June, spring lingering in the
bright anticipation of her eyes and on her
smiling lips, while the soft sweeping lines
of her form spoke the early summer of her
sex.

A few yards from her, unnoticed at first,
sat some one else. A man terribly bent
by toil or sickness. every poor, evidently,
for, as he raised himself with difficulty,
and leaning hard on his ash stick, came
towards her, she saw his thread-bare fustian
was darned and pieced like veritable
patchwork. A stubbly growth of hair

about his face, very sunken cheeks and an
aspect of suffering appeal, made him a
painful, pitiful object, and Sydney's haud
naturally sought her purse as he drew
near.

But he was not begging. He only asked
her civilly if she were wanting to speak
to the master yonder, and should he go
and fetch him.

'No, I thank you,' Sydney answered, ' I
can stop for him here or go across myself.
I am afraid moving about hurts you.'

He looked such an appropriate object
for a shilling, she opened the way thus
intentionally to his asking it. 'Hurts!
You're right, Miss. I get crippled and
crippled every day. My aches and pains
have come atop of one another till they've
nigh bent me double and  ' with a nasty
rough cough that seemed to rack him,
this winter's bout was worst of all.'

4 What was it ? Rheumatism ?' questioned
Sydney, used enough to this, the cottager's
arch enemy. ' Don't keep standing,'
she added, ' I wish you had not disturbed
yourself for me.'

Thank you, Miss, kindly. No  ' lowering
himself cautiously on the bank at a
respectful distance, ' it weren't that this
time. It were brown-chris. That kept
a hold of me from Michaelmas till May.
And it have left me as weak as water. I
haven't done a day's work not for nine
months. And I durst look to do no
more as long as I've got to live.'

But this warm weather ought to do you
good ' suggested Sydney hopefully. ' Perhaps
you will get much stronger before
next winter.'

He shook his head.

Taint likely, Miss. Get brown-chris
follerin' after three seasons of rheumatism

such as twist a man's joints about like
wax, and set 'em out of shape like mine,
why you don't pick up strength in a
hurry.'

k No indeed. It must be a dreadful
disease. So your pains and troubles began
with that.'

1 My pains began so  in my joints, Miss :
but my troubles  good heart alive, they begun
different enough ; and times before !'

(The workers yonder had set about
another strip of clover. Sydney knew full
w T ell what delight it is to the poor to hold
converse on their own woes, so lent her few
minutes' leisure to gratify this ailing
labourer.)

'Ah, if you have had other troubles,
they make you less able to bear illness, do
they not?'

Right again, Miss  right. That's what
I've said the whole way through. Give a

man a good stout heart and he can hold
his own 'gainst wind and weather and
physic and torrents. But you take that
away, and everything seem to rub him on
the raw. There's nothing can make up
for a good stout heart. Nothing', I lost
mine whiles ago. And my labour have
been nothing' but heaviness ever since.'

1 Poor fellow !' (He touched his worn
old hat to her compassionate tone.) ' How
came it all about?' (Could she spare half a
sovereign if his tale seemed as truthful assad?)


Why, the same way, Miss, a-many has
met their downfall. I worked and worked
from the hour I could hold a rake or planta
spade : and I stored and saved where
others lived free and spent : and 1 was as
thrifty as a ant as far as I knew how : and
I got a bit of property like together in solid
pounds : and then I took and trusted the

whole, the scraping and screwing of fifty
years, to one man, and he lost 'em for me !
All!'

1 Oh how hard ! How hard !'

1 Ay, hard it was. I took him for sure
as the bank itself, that man. I wouldn't
believe my own ears when word first come
to me of what he'd done. But I got to
believe it, and I'd got to bear it. And that's
what took the heart out of me. And this
here's what it have brought me to.'

But had you no friend, no son, nor anyone
to help you then ?'

c I never had a son. I'd girls. And I'd
trusted this man so sort of stupid-like 
for I'd worked for him close on forty years
I'd even give him my lasses ' few shilling's
as they'd earned then, along of mine.
And another body's too. Older than me by
a score. Hers went with the rest. And
thank the Lord she soon went after it.

And she's slept herself out of her sorrows.
I know just where she lays, poor old soul,
though we hadn't enough among us to put
a headstone over her. 5

As yet Sydney had not recognised, not
dreamt of putting together these scattered
links. But now a monitory shudder ran
through her.

Was it the tempest, drawing near in
splendid masses of leaden and silver cloud,
that set her trembling ? And was the fate
tender or harsh which impelled her to
draw the story out to its cruel end?

'Was there no one belonging to your
debtor who could give you back anything?
You, only a poor man !'
No. None that would.'
1 Now that does seem a shame.'
Ay. A shame it was then and a shame
it is now. We all said so. I didn't stand
alone. There was others lost their all the

VOL. II. e

same as me. And though their just belonging
was gone, why for very liken' of
the man that lost 'em they'd have said
thank-you " for a few pounds back, and
they'd a-set to and made another start.
Such as could. Just my rent would ha'
put spirit into me. A tithe of what was
gone would ha' set a-many on their feet
again. But none of us got it. None of
us. There come the shame. For look ye,
Miss  ' (Sydney leant forward, listening
intently, with parted lips. No mirth in
her eyes now.) ' Him that ruined us went
clear away. Clean out of sight, aud nobody
here set eyes on him no more. Word
come round among us that he took ill and
never held his head up till he died. The
thoughts of that has shut my mouth up

many a time, else I'd have curse '

No, no ! Don't say it ! Don't say it !

For  for he's dead, you know !' cried Sydney,
cowering strangely.

But let him be ? Well, so I may, for
he can't make me nor mar me no more. But
now, you think of this, Miss ; see if I mayn't
feel angered. His fine lady-wife goes off
at the first clap of ruin, as proud as any
queen. And takes her money, hers, that
her husband give her when they wedded,
thousands on thousands, and never casta
farthing back to lift up them her husband's
pulled down. And she takes a
whole power of fine things he's bought
her; and goes over to the other side of
the land ; and lives among the high people ;
and never knows the meaning of the word
11 want !" And she's got daughters  '
(Sydney grew pale)  ' fine dames like herself
; brought up so dainty the very wind
have to take care how it blow on 'em. And

e2

sleeve got fine soft clothing heaped up that
she never knows a need for  (I lay cold in
the long winter !) And she gives away
her delicate things where they ain't wanting*
and never misses 'em. And yet, yet 
what with his weakness and recounted
wrongs the man was almost sobbing  'yet
when my wife writes  unbeknown to me 
I've asked naught of no man  and when
my wife tells her only our girls' earning's
keep us from the House, and I'm with one
foot in the grave like, and the wolf's always
at our door ; she makes answer, this lady
with her chine and her di'monds and her
laces, that any more such begin' letters'll
be burnt, and only just for once she sends
us half-a-crown !'

(She knew it was coming. Link had
been clasping link as the tale went on.
Her white face turned now away ; a sense
of almost stupor spread over heart and

bead. But through it sounded on, horribly
distinct, the syllables that were to clench
her dismay, shut down the lid on the
last faint hope of escape, and fling away the
key!)

Half-a-crown ! While her and hers
can live in wicked waste, me and mine may
lay and starve or rot for all she cares !
That makes a man forget he's called a
Christian, Miss. Ill as the turn he did
me, I'll never bring myself to believe John
Alwyn would have served me so, if he'd
had a finger in the way I was treated.
But there's a God above as notes such
coin's as this great lady's. From Him she'll
get her due for 'em, this world or the next.
Sure, ay, sure as my name's Lewis !'

He left off at last, panting ; lifted his
battered hat to wipe the drops of moisture
from his lined forehead. Sydney was
shivering in every nerve. Not a word

could she utter. Lost in a whirl of bitterest
emotions, she leant upon her hands, cold
now as ice, for all the noontide heat,,
struggling to hide the agitation which
possessed her. Far sooner calmer than his
listener, Lewis said presently, in his old,
slow, much-enduring tone,

I ask your pardon, Miss. I've wore
you out with all my talk. 'Taint often I
let loose like that now-a-days. But you
seeming' to listen so real kind like, why, I
ran on as I didn't ought to. Here comes
Mr. Barnet. side of his cart at last. Shall
I fetch him up to you ?'

No: I thank  you. I was not wanting
Mr. Barnet. I am  so grieved  for
you. And '  rising, somewhat dizzy 
will you take this ?'  holding out her
poor, paltry piece of gold with a tingling
of self-appropriated guilt. ' Yes, you must.
Please keep it. And '  she was getting

suffocated now with hardly held back tears
' and, Mr. Lewis, will you  will you try
to forgive  your debtor ? He  did  not
go  unpunished !'

She took his hard, miss-shapen hand in
hers a moment very gently ; met his
astonished gaze with a look of passionate
pleading; then, turning away, passed
swiftly from the field, tears raining down
her cheeks, and was lost to sight before the
wonder-struck man could acknowledge, far
less comprehend, her gift.

And before he had laboured painfully
home out of the tempest gathering rapidly
around, and had recounted his most strange
adventure to his wife, Sydney was faraway
from Lutterthorpe, journeying on
again  this time to Stillcote-Upton.

CHAPTER III.

ME. Cheese HAS A CALLER.

It was market-day in that town, and the
nearest approach to commercial activity it
contrived to keep out of the octopus-like
clutches of the neighbouring county centre,
was stirring in its streets that Wednesday
mid-day.

On the Cornwall, farmers, prosperous
enough to have held their stacks intact
through winter and spring, rolled the
contents of their fat little sample bags
unctuously in their broad palms, and drove
hard bargains at rising prices. Their less

lucky or sagacious confreres took gloomy
views of agriculture, vowed the late hot
weeks had brought the corn up too fast,
recorded a fall in the glass, prophesied wet
setting in, and the extinction of income
for their entire class. But most of them,
hopeful or depressed, found time to do
justice to mine host of the King's Head's
ample two o'clock meal, and the feminine
members of their families found means to
keep the shop astir throughout the main
thoroughfares.

But the tide of traffic and purchasers
stopped short of that part which had been
the chief entrance to the town in the time
of coaching and carriage gentility. Life
seemed diverted now to the region of the
railway. Grass grew between the paving-stones
of this wide South Street. Few
came up or down except to the very respectable
dwellings that flanked its

breadth, and its thinly-scattered shops
might almost have put up their shutters
for all the custom they attracted.

That was the opinion of one who had
sat behind the counter of her modest
establishment from nine in the morning,
without taking as many as nine pence.

Her very anxious, not to say shrewish
face puckered up under an arrangement of
small wiry curls, Miss Amelia Ambler
watched the passers-by with cat-like interest;
arranged her buttons, dusted her
cottons and assorted her attenuated store
of ' general haberdashery and Berlin
wools bemoaning the while that change
of fashion which permitted the larger establishments
of High Street to lure away
the humble chances of sale.

They sell buttons at crockery-shops and
tapes at the bookseller's now-a-days, I declare,'
she grumbled, aloud  if no one came

to talk to her she must talk to herself. ' It
gets worse and worse every year. And
now if it isn't coming on to rain. Oh,
me ! if ever I'd suspected things reaching
this pass I'd positively have gone straight
out and been a menial servant. I should
have earned as much between now and
then so, I'll be bound.'

And the ' then ' seemed to draw her
attention to an announcement in fine,,
flourishing capitally telegraphy, dated
many years back, that ' Miss Amelia Ambler,
having from circumstances resumed
her business in South Street, begged a renewal
of former kind support, which, by
earnest endeavours,' &c, &c.

This document, broadly framed in black,
hung prominently by the door, and now
showed such an accumulated coat of dust
that its mistress descended wrathfully
from her high stool to brush it clean,

murmuring as she did so, c What a head
that idle Nancy has. I've a good mind
not to keep her on. She isn't worth her
food.'

Now, this cursory mention of food was
followed by a distinct sensation of hunger
in Miss Ambler's own pinched frame.
Half-past one,' she said, listening to the
chimes, as she set straight a tray of brass
thimbles a juvenile schoolgirl had tumbled
into disorder and then departed without
finding one to fit ; ' will Nancy never
learn to be punctual ? Why doesn't she
bring my dinner ?' and, opening the door
in the rear of the shop, she demanded explanation
of some invisible being still
further back.

Please, miss,' responded a shrill young
voice, ' I've eat the top of the loaf as was
left myself, and the baker he hasn't been
yet, so what am I to bring you, miss?'

This was a poser. But it was beneath
Miss Ambler's dignity to admit herself
nonplussed.

1 Oh, it's no consequence then, Nancy,'
she cried, ' I can take  hem  anything I
like when Mr. Potts comes round, or I can
send you out presently for a beef pie or
three pennyworth of ham.'

1 Yes, miss, to be sure,' Nancy, the unseen,
answered ; but she gave an internal
chuckle of glee at having secured that last
top crust and the lodger's dripping for her
own clamorous organs. Experience had
taught her to mistrust her mistress's
magnificent speeches, which mostly ended
in smoke !

Even as this one. For Miss Ambler
looked dejectedly in her till. There lay
the four shillings she put in every morning
for show, and took out every night for
fear of thieves, and there lay very little

else. A very poor prospect did that till
offer of any such delicacies as beef pies.
She shook her head and mentally rejected
the luxurious notion. Mr. Potts's loaf
would have to content her, and  she
should be uncommonly glad when that
came !

Someone else in the house was rather
perplexed on the subject of diet just at that
time.

In a room over the little neglected shop,
tidy but poorly furnished, sat Mr. Jacob
Cheene, at his very frugally furnished
dinner-table, eyeing the comestibles just
placed thereon by the small housescrub,
with a rather disapproving expression.

The display certainly was neither abundant
nor appetising.

Lukewarm potatoes of last year's growth,
plentifully spotted with this spring's
sprouting ; a fragment of yesterday's rice

pudding ; very stale bread vis-advised by-very
crusty cheese ; these were evidently
not inviting to our old acquaintance, who,
somewhat thinner and more stooping than
when he went a-visiting at St. Clairs, first
inspected them disconsolately, and then,
brightening with a happy flash, got up and
called down the stairs to the attendant
Nancy: 

I am waiting for the cold mutton.
Bring it up, please.'

'Mutton, sir,' repeated Nancy, bolting
from her den at the back into the tiny
sitting-room where the stairs debouched ;
What mutton is it you mean, please, sir ?
There aren't none that I know of.'

Not the piece I left yesterday ?
questioned Mr. Cheene mildly.

Not a fossil, sir, that I see, nowheres.
Perhaps you went and eat it for your
supper and forgot it, sir.'

'Certainly I didn't do that answered
Mr. Cheene; ' look again, Nancy.'

Which, with much clatter, as of asser-lively
empty plates and dishes, Nancy did,
returning with confirmation of her first
report :

There ain't not a scrap, sir, nowhere.
Perhaps the cat next door '

c Nancy !' said the voice of the mistress.
1 Take your apron off and mind the shop
till I come back. Shut the door. Oh,
Mr. Cheene,' her head appearing at a
turn of the stairs, ' was it the little taste
of your cold chop you were asking
about ?'

1 Y-e-s,' Mr. Cheene admitted nervously
that it was. ' But it was no consequence,'
he added : ' not the very least.'

But truth is truth, and you'd better
have it, sir, as I hope you always do,
and won't ever have your confidence, Mr.

Cheene, misplaced, not in me ! So I mayas
well say '  coming a few steps higher,
her sharp old spinster countenance at once
defiant and sheepish  ' I  I had it with
my cup of tea last night. For'  gazing
at Mr. Cheene's well-worn boots as though
defying them to contradict her  ' I said to
myself, of course Mr. Cheene will never
think of asking for a bite like this anymore,
and I may as well finish it as let it
stand and go bad, which with thunder in
the air it's sure to do, and then even a dog
will turn it's nose up at it.'

Quite right. Oh, very right, Miss
Amelia.'

1 But if I'd expected you to want it for
your dinner, Mr. Cheene ; if I'd thought
inquiries were going to be made for that
little bit of fat and gristle, for it was nothing
else, why 1 wouldn't so much as have
touched it with the tip end of my fork.'

VOL. II. F

Pray don't

Though, as it happened, I'd nothing
handy for my tea, and Nancy had gone
home, and I always believed, Mr. Cheene,
our understanding when you took my rooms
was that I was to have the use of odds and
ends. But if you wish that altered, Mr.
Cheene,' advancing another step, ' if ' with
an ominous and unaffected sniff  e you wish
me to suffer more '

'But I don't! My dear soul, I don't
indeed !' protested Mr. Cheene, retreating.
4 1 beg your pardon, I'm sure, for mentioning
that mutton. Of course it would have
gone bad. I never thought of that. So
I'm very much obliged to you, indeed, for
not letting ifc be wasted. And any '

1 Wanted, miss !' cried Nancy, from
below, 'a lady, please.' And, to Mr.
Cheene's extreme relief, Miss Ambler had
to rub her nose, adjust her curls, and

hurry off to her customer ; hope easily extinguished
as easily relighted in her much
enduring bosom. Sometimes a purchaser
had been driven in by rain and bought
several shillings' worth of goods while
taking shelter. This might be one of such
welcome sort. A money-box had jumped
out of the kitchen fire that morning, and
unless signs were as altered as the rest of
these degenerate times that must bring
luck!

Catching sight of no omens for good or ill
in the air about him, but uncommonly relieved
at having his task of soothing his landlady
cut short, Mr. Cheene returned to his
room and addressed himself to his viands
with what appetite the episode had left
him. Which was not much, for, more or
less nervous all his life through, altercation
of any sort upset him doubly now. ' If I
don't take much dinner, perhaps I shall

f2

enjoy my tea more he said to himself,
covering up the nausea-provoking tubers.
Then, helping himself to a modicum of
Cheshire : c I think Miss Amelia may as
well toast up the rest of this for herself.
She'll like that. It'll make up to her, poor
soul, for my going and distressing her as
I did, very thoughtlessly, very, indeed !
And she can finish this loaf. I don't want
much of it. A full meal is a bad thing if
you are going to sit still after it all day.
And the storm is not over, so I shan't get
a walk. I must have a tune or two instead,
then'  leaving his meal with much the
same appetite as he began  ' then I shall
forget all about such things as mutton or
new potatoes !'

And herewith he unlocked a well-worn
black case, lifted thence his viola, and had
just sounded the first bars of one of Corelli's
little gossiping gavottes, when Nancy broke

in upon him with important haste : 

'Pease, sir, missus says can I clear

away ? There's a lady coming up to see

4 A lady ?' stopping short, bow suspended.


c Yes, sir, what came into the shop
when I was a-mindin' of it, with her
parasol soaking.' And she want you, sir,
not missus.'

Now, midsummer was approaching, and
Jacob had more than one female visitor of
mature years, about quarter-days. Here
was one a trifle beforehand, no doubt. He
laid his viola and bow aside to take a look
at his purse, asking,

4 Is it Mrs. Goode or Mrs. Tettrell,
Nancy ?'

'Neither, nor both, sir was the sharp
reply. ' This here's a lady, sir, and a
young 'un  not a frump and an old 'un !

Mrs. Goode, indeed ! Ladies behave very
different to what she do ! Only last
time she come says she to me '  sweeping
the table straight at perilous speed 
1 " Girl," she says, " if you couldn't keep
Mr. Cheene's steps no cleaner than this,
I'd "'

Nancy !'

At the voice of her mistress the lively
handmaid and her tray retired with rapidity
: Miss Ambler ushered in the visitor
with, ' As the lady has not given me her
name, Mr. Cheene, I can't say who it is !'
And Jacob received the stranger with unceremonious
recognition that lasted till
the door was closed upon them. Then, as
she looked at him with a most uncertain
and petitioning smile, and ' Oh, surely, Mr.
Cheene, you remember me !' he knew who
she was, and fell into a perfect tremor of
delight over her arrival.

Again and again he shook her hands, and
though he ventured on no compliments,
his glances of admiring pride told how he
delighted in her fair growth. He fetched
from the bow-window a high-backed, horsehair
seated chair for her to occupy, and
hunting up, as who best hides best finds,
a little walnut stool from beneath a pile of
music, he set it under her feet, and
then leaning on the back of his own chair,
an armless facsimile of hers, he gazed
long at her with his old pleasure-dimmed
eyes.

1 Only to think you should come unawares
upon me like this now, my dear,
my dear Miss Sydney !' he repeated.
1 When I've settled so often how I've
meant to get ready for you if I knew you
were going to give me a look. And now
you've caught me just anyhow. With no
nice little dinner, not even a bunch of

flowers set out to show how glad I am to
see you : and how proud; how proud ! Oh
rubbing his thin old hands softly in a
very ecstacy of enjoyment, ' the times I
have dreamt of seeing you  sitting just
as you do sit in your father's very own
chair ! But I never dared expect it. An
old man like me, a tenant on leave, for I'm
over my three-score-and-ten, Miss Sydney,
oughtn't to expect anything too surely.
But to have got just what I wished for so
long seems too good to be true. It does,
indeed !'

And Mr. Cheene's joy impairing his
powers of vision seriously, he had to retire
with much blinking to the bow-window,
and examine the state of the weather,
before he found himself equal to resuming
coherent conversation. When he returned
 his features composed, but beaming
still  it struck him suddenly that something

was amiss with his guest. Sydney
had entered, flushed from her interview
with Miss Ambler. The landlady  curious
as maiden ladies will be  had very
pointedly requested her name to carry,
and had stared in blank disapproval when
it was quietly refused. ' Only someone who
wishes to see Mr. Cheeses John Alwyn's
daughter had said, remembering, with a
blush of the deepest shame, that to mention
who she was in Stillcote-Upton, might
only awaken slumbering stories to her
father's discredit. Now the painful colour
had faded away, and she sat, her dark eyes
following him so pathetically, from a face
so pale, that Jacob Cheene hurried to her,
asking 

Was she ill ? or had the lightning
frightened her? The tempest had been
sharp a little while.'

1 No, I'm not ill, Jacob she answered,

taking his hands in hers  it seemed a
sort of haven ; * and the tempest did not
frighten me. I hardly noticed it. Something
else has  frightened me !'

And that, Miss Sydney ?'

1 Please pull your chair close, and sit
down by me. For, Jacob  ' still keeping
hold of him, and leaning leastways on the
firm oaken arm (just her father's old attitude
through many a business hour), 'I
am going to ask you some questions.
You will answer them, will you not ?'

< If I can.'

4 And I know you can. Somehow  you
can tell me how afterwards  when my
father left Guyswick had he just lost all
his money ?'

Jacob's nerves gave a great jump.
Sydney could feel it through all her own
frame.

i I am  afraid  he had.'

'AH?
All.'

1 And  had he  lost other people's
money, too ?'

The question came on the old clerk as
the unannounced application of a cold water
douche. He would have given a quarters
income to be out of that witness-box.
But there was no escape. Sydney's grave
eyes waited on him for answer, and true
answer he had to give.

Y-e-s, Miss Sydney. He had. Or *

trying to soften the harsh fact's rough
edges, 'other people's money got lost 
with his.'

With his. By his doing, then ?'

 Yes.' Parting from the bald truth
about as willing as a dog parts from a
cherished bone. ' But '

 Oh, hush  a moment !'

She leant back, his hand still in hers.

paler, if possible, than ever. "Was her
fathers memory  that which with such tenderness
she had kept fresh so many years
now to be blackened ; her birthright of
honourable pride to be taken from her ?
Well might she ask breathing space before
listening to detailed evidence of such misfortune
! But it was only a few seconds
she wavered.

Now, Jacob,' she said, rallying, upright
again; 'you must tell me the whole, please.
From beginning to end. How did the
money go ?'

It was in a mine  a copper-mine, Miss
Sydney, somewhere in the south of England.
A thing  ' said the old clerk,
wrinkling up his forehead in emphasis,
c my master knew just as much about as
as  a baby, or as myself ! It was a
new concern just when he married. It
seems he put a thousand pounds in them.

Your uncle, Mrs. Alwyn's brother, helped to
start it, I believe. No doubt he named it
to your father.'

Did he lose anything in it ?'

'Not a penny. The shares went up
quickly, and he sold out. When they were
first rising your father bought more

Jacob, did you think it wise ? Why
did you not try to stop him ?'

Miss Sydney ! Stop him ! Why there
was not one of us in the office knew what
he was doing. And if any had known,
they'd never have questioned but what he
was right. Least of all should I have
doubted him  him who had ruled me
always to my well-doing ; as some day you
must hear. You  you ought to. There
wasn't a man's judgment more looked upto
than his for miles about. And properly,
in all things, he had knowledge of. But
with a sad shake of the head, e mines

weren't among them. They were beyond
even him.'

Then, Jacob, how did the  crash
come ?'

i Well, from all we could find out, Miss
Sydney, there was warning months before.
It seems his dividend  the interest on his
shares  didn't come in as it should, and
he went down to the place, just between
Devon and Dorsetshire, to look into it all.
I remember the journey, though I didn't
know what it was for at the time.'

And he found nothing out ?'

1 No. There was a clever manager at
the works, and my master was no match
for him. He brought accounts forward to
show how matters had come to a lock-up fora
few months, but couldn't fail to right-side
themselves before long. And, between
lies and persuading, he sent your father
home pretty satisfied that his money was

safe enough ; as it had need have been, for
Guyswick was making off with a fortune of
ready cash just then.'

But of course he was deceived?'
Through thick and thin, Miss Sydney 
through thick and thin. A fortnight
before his summer interest was due he got
word that creditors were down on the concern
for debts for plant  that's machinery,
you know, and so forth  and debts at
different banks, and sums of all sorts, that
should have been all cleared off before a
single share took a farthing's interest. If
it had been managed right, people who
understood it said it ought to have prospered
; but it was just muddled and mismanaged,
or managed unscrupulously the
whole way through, and so it came to
grief. Such things are always going on
in the trade market, and honest men are
always getting ruined, I suppose. But

everyone had such trust in your father, it
didn't seem possible that he should be taken
in, and all his fine property lost. It was
days before people could bring themselves
to believe it.'

1 But had he actually put all he had in
this mine, then ?'

Such action struck even his child's crude
business judgment with dismay.

6 No, no, Miss Sydney, not on the face
of it. But all this happened, you know,
before the time of limited liability companies.
And when the mine stopped, and
the manager, who had saved h himself feathers
to fly with, was gone off and nowhere to
be found, it turned out there was scarcely
a man among the shareholders with five
hundred pounds, except your father, and 
well  he was by a long way the richest.
So it was on him the blow fell heaviest.
And it broke him up completely, body and

spirit, and nearly killed him.' It was a
miserable reminiscence. Poor Jacob
reflected Sydney's trouble. ' And he had
none of his old strength, not a scrap of his
old skill left to fight life any more, either
for himself or others. And that's all, my
dear.'

1 Not quite, Jacob.' (It was plenty, and
sad enough. Would that it had been all !)
1 How came others here in Stillcote to be
ruined with  through him ?'

Need we talk of it, Miss Sydney ? It's
all over, and done with now.'

1 We must, please. Who were they ?'

'People who had given him  lent him
their money.'

1 Lent ! Did he want it ?'

No ; but you see his name stood for as
good as gold hereabouts. So people put
their earnings or their savings in his hands,
just as soon as they'd have put them  ay,

VOL. II. g

in the Funds. So first one and then
another, brought him a hundred or two,
just taking his simple note of hand for it ;
and all that  went with the rest !'

Even Lewis's  even my poor old
nurse's ! Oh, Jacob ! no wonder he nearly
died of it !' Loosing her hand to hide her
tear-laden eyes. ' Tell me who, beside
Taffy, lost their saving ?'

Miss Sydney, it's no good '

It is. Tell me.'

Well,' very reluctantly, 6 there was
Miss Ambler  her you saw downstairs.'

Was hers much ?'

The most of any. About six hundred.
She and her mother had had the shop
below for years. Luckily, they had
bought this house. And they had just
retired, thinking their thirty pounds a year
and a lodger or two would keep them
comfortably.'

1 And then they had to begin again.
Poor things ! "Who else was there ?'

' Oh, you don't even know their names,
Miss Sydney. Tradespeople, mostly,
who'd known your father all their lives.
There was the office-keeper, old Susan
Comes.'

Wait a moment, please. Can you lend
me a pencil? Yes, Susan Comes : how
much was hers ?'

He told her : and seeing that having
heard part, she must hear all, he told oneby
one the humble creditors, a long string of
names, representing many a lowly tragedy
of  alas !  her father's making.

And  we  went away, with money
secured to us, and never left anything for
these unlucky folks ?' she asked, crimsoning
at that depth of disgrace.

1 Why, you were a child. You had no
part in it, Miss Sydney. And your father

g2

lie was a child too by then ! And your
mother  Mrs. Alwyn  well, she had
perfect legal right to her settlements.
Every penny. If she chose.'

4 Legal! Yes. But '

Sydney dared not utter the thoughts
that would surge up in her breast. Jacob
could well interpret the impatient pause.

6 So there was no one to do anything for
them ?'

'No one, worth mentioning, I'm afraid.
You see I hadn't much myself.'

Jacob ! I don't mean you.'

Ah, but I would if I'd been able. But,
strange enough, all I'd put by I sank for
my life just before our troubles. It was
your father's advice. I wanted him to take
it and he refused '

4 Thank heaven !'

< " Do as I tell you," he said. " Sink it,
then it's safe. You have no one to leave

it to, and may as well have all the benefit
of it you can." So I have only enough to
live on, Miss Sydney, with just a little to
spare. I do try to make the most of that
little among the worst off of  that list.
I'm afraid I haven't seen after Lewis as I
-ought. But it does go such a little way.
It's only like a drop in the sea. And the
worst of it is, that'll have to end when I
end.'

Jacob !' She put her arms about this
good friend's shoulders, and, weeping,
lifted his hand to her lips. ' Dear, true
old Jacob, God bless you for what you
have been doing. There is only myself
left to thank you, and I can't half do it as
I should. Stow I know who sent my
father back his violin !'

Ah, well '  shy under her gratitude
as any girl  ' that's not worth speaking of.
Good as it was, I bought it for a mere

song, just to keep it from the dealers
And this too ?' touching the chair in
which she sat. ' And what else, Jacob.'

Only his office book-case, Miss Sydney,
and the table, and his desk there.' Her
eyes wandered wistfully to each as he
named it. ' Just what I couldn't bear to
see knocked about after he'd used them
forty years. And a few books and trifles,
such as would have gone to light the fire,
if I hadn't taken them. But now my

dear young lady ' She was regaining

such steady firmness, sitting there with
her beautiful mouth closed fast on all
complaint, he thought the worst of the
disclosure was well over, and he might
beguile her to other subjects  ' Wow, do
let me fetch you some lunch. I don't
know yet how far you have come to-day,
or even what brought you. But you
should take something.'

But Sydney would have nothing, nor
would let him leave her, so he listened,
perforce, to the account of her journey,
and the slightly interwoven chances that
had drawn her on to the day's discoveries,
in the midst of which an eight-day clock
up in a corner (another of the old clerk's
bargains) struck three, and startled her
into recollection that she must be returning
at once to Chaddeley.

A quarter past does your train go?'
said Mr. Cheene, in a panic. ' Why, it's
quick walking that takes you there in ten
minutes. It takes me double now-a-days.
But, dear, dear, only to have had you
such a little while  and to have done
nothing but give you pain  and to let
you go without a thought to give you
comfort '

She stopped him, fetching up, to soothe
his perturbation, a smile that shone like

returning sunshine through the last drops
of the shower without.

1 If I could have had mv choice I would
not have been spared this pain,' she said,
and then halted half-a-minute. Fleeting
by she seemed to see phantoms of all her
late-born projects fading out, the glow
her money was to cast over her future.
Uncertain, receding, a figure hovered
Rupert Villiers'. Was that to vanish
too ! But then uprose an hour, a promise
of long ago, to ease a pain she had not
understood till now. ' Father, never fear,
I will make it all right.' Cost what it
might, as far as in her lay she would
keep faith with the dead. ' Now everything
is clear to me,' she went on, gently,
clearly, ' I see what must be done. And
you will help me to do it.'

1 To do what ?' Mr. Cheene asked, bewildered.


1 To pay what has been kept back so
long. "We can just manage it, for it is
not quite six thousand. I shall write to
you from St. Glairs, Jacob. And the
money shall be with you next week. Goodbye.'


CHAPTER IV.

1 there's many a 

the warm early evening of the day
following Sydney's visit to Stillcote-Upton,
Mrs. Alwyn and her nephew strolled up
and down the lawn at The Dale in conclave
of peculiarly private nature.

Each had a design, definite and very
similar, at heart. Both were bent on having
it discussed and done with before
Sydney's return, expected now in some
half-hour; and their conversation hovered
about the important point, like bees over a
blossom, undecided whereabouts to commence
operations.

Leonora, rather partial generally to a
twilight stroll with her personable cousin,
kept out of the way now, obedient to a
hint from her mother. But she made herself
heard, if not seen. Her florid execution
of 'Robert, toi que f crime,' was frightening
the sparrows from their nests in the ivy
about the drawing-room windows, though it
was quite past their proper bed-time, and
her ' grace pour moi, grace pour toi] pierced
the still air beyond The Dale to cottage
tenements, evoking the doubtful compliment
that 'young miss yonder, she could
screech mighty fine, an' no mistake.'

'Your father admires that cavatina so
much,' said Mrs. Alwyn, when the last
vocal entreaty died out, exhausted, on the
final D; 'he remembered Grist singing it,
and thinks Leonora almost equal to her in
it.'

Mr. Rupert's glance followed the gyrations

of a bat overhead to conceal a suspicious
smile. His excellent father knew
about as much of music as he himself of
warfare. But on no account would he
gainsay the Major's flattery. So he quashed
his superior experience of soprano'
abilities and agreed, 'Leonora does sing
brilliantly indeed. We must get her to
please the pater with that tomorrow night :
when Sydney and I '

Well ? When Sydney and you ?'

Have just such a stroll as this. With
your good leave, Aunt Helen.'

Or without it, I suspect, by then,' she
answered with a satisfied laugh.

I hope we may take it for granted without
going far wrong,' replied Mr. Rupert,
with easy assurance, ' unless you mean to
change sides and give my lady fair to someone
else at the last moment.'

Which is very probable, is it not?

You forget, my dear nephew, how your suit
began

Indeed, I do nothing of the sort ; nor
that I am your debtor from that moment,
and have not done with your good offices
yet, Aunt Helen.'

This was nearing business, but each
politely gave each other the pas on the
delicate ground approached.

'Ah, a few hours may change your
modest deference, Mr. Rupert.' (No response
to his. The young man was
cautious. It seemed she must go first.)
'But, by the way, before Sydney comes, I
was wanting to say that I hope your father
will not think we have asked him over for
tomorrow at the last moment just for
business purposes. I should be sorry for
him to fancy that.'

Not the least likely, seeing he angled
unblushingly for an invitation ! His pretext

of just running down to resign his
trusteeship formally was a most transparent
excuse, Aunt Helen, for satisfying
himself that all was safe and sure between
Sydney and me. He is spending a great
deal of ardour on the whole affair, I assure
you.'

Which is amiable of him !' murmured
Mrs. Alwyn, not giving utterance to her
uppermost thought  that her son had not
been too lavish of the same quality throughout
the ' affair.' ' So we must let him share
our pleasure to the full, Rupert. I know
Sidney will be enchanted to see him. That
I can venture to say for her. They made
fast friends with each other on his last
visit. They have a good deal in common,
I think. Both impressionable, enthusiastic,
eh ? And  er  not very businesslike
; is it not so ? Which brings me to
what I was going to mention to you  for

really we ought not to trouble your father
after tomorrow with Sydney's pecuniary
arrangements. I think you and I should
undertake them.'

f Most willingly, Aunt Helen.'

c You won't consider me premature, I
trust.'

Not the least likely.'

Then I have been considering that, as
possibly you will not wish for a very long
engagement '

A month. Not a day more. A fellow
feels unsettled with  with that sort of
thing' (and others unnameable, unpaid
bills to wit) ' hanging over him. I must
make Sydney look at it in the same light,
and fix the middle of July.'

Then the middle of July will be a very
expensive time to me, Rupert.'

Mr. Villiers barely restrained a chuckle.
Of all moves on the board this was just

the most advantageous for him Mrs. Alwyn
could have made. He had firmly resolved
that, once turned Benedict, he would be a
model of the order he was going to adorn ;
give up those little tricks and amusements
that had led him into slippery places,
cherish his wife, attach himself to his home,
and never owe anybody anything any more !
But the steps between the assumed ease of
his present and the assured ease of his
future were still precarious ones. Now he
thanked his stars he had got the cue to
cutting his difficulties short.

1 A very expensive time !' he repeated,
gravely. ' Ah, I suppose so. You ladies
won't be contented, I presume, unless you
have the ceremony in grand style.'

Grand ! Oh, dear no. But it must be
becomingly. And you have no idea  men
have not  that is one reason why I could
not discuss this with the Major, though I

felt bound to speak of it to you  how expenses
run up at such a time.'

'Ah! I haven't a doubt of it,' Rupert
acquiesced. ' I've been thinking of pretty
much the same sort of thing myself. You
see, when a fellow gets married he has to
clear up all round, as it were, and deucedly
I beg your pardon, Aunt Helen  confoundedly
awkward he finds it sometimes.
No joke, you know, to square everything
up at one go, and rig himself out fresh
from top to toe, as it were.'

c I quite believe it.'

1 I'm glad you do. The pater, you see,
droning away in his two rooms at Petersham,
hasn't a notion of how much is wanted
for this sort of thing ; though '  with
a twinge of compunction  f he quite intends
coming down with all he can spare, and
means to be liberal, of course. But figures
run up so '

vol. II. H

 They do, indeed, Rupert.'

1 Aud house-furnishing, to do the thing
decently, makes off with ten times more
than a man with my short income can get
together. And  er, so  er '

1 Unquestionably, Rupert. But I am
sure if this is put in the proper light to
Sydney she will see that it is her duty, her
delightful duty, to assist with what you
name.'

Oh, you think she won't object to
that ?'

Certainly not. If explained as I should
take care to explain it, were you to commission
me to do so, Rupert. You would
probably have to restrain her being too
free-handed. But everything with her 
forgive me the expression -peculiar disposition,
depends on how the matter is put
before her.'

c Then, my dear aunt, to be perfectly

candid, will you undertake to see if she
has any objection tolerating  a  thousand
or so  a couple, perhaps, might be better
just loose, so as to start us off respectably
with what my father gives us, too, and
leave us a margin for  well, things we may T
not have thought of, any contingency that
might crop up, you understand. Isn't
wise to have to feel hampered for a five-pound
note the first year one is married.'

'Nor at any other time, Rupert!' A
gentle reminder this that other interests
were on the carpet besides his own. Mr.
Yilliers answered the helm instantly.

1 Nor at any other. Dear me, no.
Least of all at such a time as I hope weare
coming to. I'm certain, Aunt Helen,
Sydney and I would both think it unfair
for you to bear the outlay that is for our
glorification.'

h 2

4 Especially as, you see, my income is on
the verge of being lessened !'

Exactly so. I should think if Sydney
asked you to manipulate all her first
quarter's income over the business, that
wouldn't leave you much to the bad, would
it?'

On the contrary, it would leave her, as
she would arrange, an appreciable trifle
to the good. Rupert was thoughtful
beyond his sex. What an excellent husband
he would make poor Sydney. Mrs.
Alwyn felt quite a glow of regard for him,
pleasant fellow that he was ! She took his
arm affectionately, with, c That would do !
That would do  ' "amply," she was on the
point of saying, but substituted, ' As 1
should contrive it.' There was no need to
impress Rupert with the notion that he was
acting very liberally. She preferred the
obligation to rest with him. So she concluded,

 And I will arrange that other
point, Rupert ; and take pains to settle it
speedily, as you wish.'

Thanks, very much.' It took a load
off his mind, and he could add, with quite
a cool air, ' Of course, you see why it is
so desirable ?'

'Perfectly.' (hang it, I hope not!'
thought the gentleman.) ' And now, if weare
to dine at eight, I think it time we went
indoors, Rupert.'

He took off his straw hat with ' Then
cue revoir, mamma !' And profoundly contented
with the compact just concluded,
went gaily into the house, up to his own
room three steps at a time, singing ' Love
in her eyes sits playing,' so lustily over his
quarter-of-an-hour's dressing that the persecuted
sparrows outside had no chance of
beauty sleep till he had descended to the
drawing-room in that evening garb which,

if he might believe the testimony of many
mirrors, invested him with his most gentlemanly
and attractive exterior.

Sydney not come !' he said, impatiently,
on entering; and Leonora, the only occupant
of the apartment, replied, rather sarcastically
 for though all this exaltation of
Sydney was needful means to a desirable
end, she was getting thoroughly tired of
it ;  c No, actually not here yet, poor, poor
Rupert. So you must wait a little longer
before you can verify the charming ditty
you have been waking up the echoes with
so melodiously.'

1 Laughing at me !' said Mr. Yilliers,
seating himself with resigned aspect by
his fair cousin. The characteristics of
kinship were strong between these two.
He could play upon her moods as readily
as she upon her cottage Collard. c And
when she knows how keenly sensitive

I am to feminine ridicule. Cruel, very !
But JSTorah, my dear  pardon !'  as the
young lady stiffened her rounded figure
warningly  'I should say "my dear Norah,"
that's correct enough for cousins, isn't it? 
remember two can indulge in these playful
pleasantries. Permit me to inquire who
may be the toi associated with the moi in
the strains I had the happiness of listening
to just now. Such impassioned
vocalisation signifies something individual,
not general. Benignly enlighten me, dear
coz.'

c Nonsense !' said Leonora, a satisfied
smile belying an ostentatious frown.

Had it  now had that toi anything
to do with a clerical scion of nobility ? A
gentleman in a soft wide-awake, who
walked up from the village with you this
morning ?'

Silence, Eupert !'

1 And who bad something so serious to
discuss before separating, it involved five
minutes' conversation, a great deal of
deliberation, and a great many blushes !'

1 Really, Rupert, this is intolerable ! If
I had known you were playing the
spy '

'Hard names, hard names, young people !
Now, what's amiss ?'

This was Mrs. Alwyn's question as she
came rustling in.

4 Nothing very bad, Aunt Helen. Only
Leonora perversely declines to tell me
what absorbed her and Mr. Duvesne this
morning. And I consider that, as a near
male relative on the spot, I ought to know

it;

Then most inquisitive of men,' cried
Leonora, her mother listening carefully,
while pretending to laugh at them both,
hear and believe ! Mr. Duvesne was

asking nothing more important than my
opinion about the hangings of a roome

Innocent enough,' said Mrs. Alwyn.

1 That depends, Aunt Helen. What
room, Cousin Norah ?'

1 Curiosity  your name is Rupert
Yilliers !' cried the young lady, nothing
loth to be pushed to the extremity of confession.
' It was a  morning room. The
pretty west one we noticed, mamma, when
the rectory was building. Mr. Duvesne's
study is just the opposite side of the
vestibule.'

'Elleetlui! Hem. Pour moi . . . pour
toil' hummed Mr. Yilliers, mischievously.
'And what colour wished "he," and
what colour counselled "you," Cousin
Norah?'

1 Rupert, you are too absurd. Mr.
Duvesne fancied pale pink, but I said at
once that would go very badly with '

Squirrel-coloured hair !' audaciously
flicking at her much-secured coiffure.

Pshaw ! With the yellow red of sunset,
Mr. Yilliers. They mix most horribly.
So I suggested pale blue, and Mr.
Duvesne '

Coincided, of course ! And right you
are, Norah. Blue for you blondes, you
know, all the world over !'

Mamma, silence him ! Tell him such
badinage is very vulgar. It must be put
a stop to. Positively I can't listen to ifc
any longer !' cried Leonora, getting up
with a maidenly display of affront.

Well, here comes something to release
you said Mrs. Alwyn. c I heard wheels
turning in at the gate, I think.'

Instantly Mr. Yilliers was out and into
the hall. His aunt followed more leisurely.
Leonora was deserted, with a suspicious
pout on her full lips and a keen

desire burning within her that her time to
command such devoted alacrity might be
nigh.

The spirit of fun animating Mr. Villiers
the minute before was put to the right-about
as he hastened to the porch, first to
assist Sydney in descending from the carriage
which had brought her and her
fellow-traveller home. His attitude was,
so nearly as he could make it, perfection
for the occasion : a mixture of tender
deference and lover-like impatience, calculated
to set the stamp of surrender to
himself on the ' impressionable ' nature of
his nearly betrothed. But whether absence
had its proverbial effect, and
whether the wonder-working little god
were enthroned in his lady's eyes, the
anxious gentleman was unable at once to
judge. Sydney, having once seen who
was advancing, kept her glance nervously

averted. Nor would she suffer him, as lie
desired, to clasp her fingers for a moment
in the sheltering gloom of the porch.
Instead, she loosed his arm, and went
quickly to her mother, meeting her cool,
self-contained welcome with a tremulous
embrace that held an unspeakable depth of
deprecation and emotion. So monstrous
to the girl's generous instincts had seemed
the harsh judgment of her mother's
doings to which her first passionate outburst
of humiliated pain had driven her,
that now, as cheek lay to cheek, she felt
a very Judas, yet, somehow, sorrier for
her mother than herself. Her mother,
after all !

Mrs. Alwyn was quick to mark disturbing
signs, which she set down to
weariness.

I was very wrong,' she said, ' to let you
take that journey  there and back  in

three days. You are dreadfully tired,
Sydney ?'

'Dreadfully.'

1 You did riot rest as you ought the day
between.'

Rest ! Oh, no, mamma.'

The notion was so grotesque. Coming
atop the long strain of cheerfulness kept
up perforce before Mrs. Dacie, it fetched
for answer a little cry, half laughter,
nearer tears. A single soft syllable would
have plunged Sydney into the yet unknown
regions of hysteria. But from any such
exhibition of weakness her mother's sharp
promptitude shielded her.

1 Ah, you are simply like all young
people, not fit to be trusted out alone.
Here, Phillips ; take Miss Alwyn's bag
upstairs and help her to dress. Posting
about in the way you have been, you have
had no regular meals, of course. Be quick

clown to dinner, my dear. We waited for
you.'

Must I come  ' Sydney began.

'Most certainly you must,' Mrs. Alwyn
broke in, peremptorily. And conscious
she must spend no strength on skirmishes,
but save all for the battle royal close
upon her, Sydney gave in ; wearily changed
travelling clothes for a dress that matched
her pale face, and re-appeared to endure
the ceremonial of four courses, with the
best semblance of appetite she could
command.

But it was not a successful dinner.
Leonora, at one end of the table, looked,
as she felt, a trifle petulant. Mrs. Alwyn,
having made careless inquiry for Mrs.
Dacie, dropped the journey and its object
altogether, bestowing her spare minutes in
ladylike vituperation of the Hemyugford

fishmonger, who had sent an inferior cut
of salmon to that ordered.

He knows, at this distance, I am at
his mercy, and takes advantage accordingly
P said the irate hostess. ' Positively
dishonest, I call it ;' and Sydney winced.
Rupert Villiers felt the minutes wasted.
It was impossible to make love across a
plateau of roses and jellies and wax-candles
; with, moreover, a couple of lynx-eyed
waiting-maids ready to make note 
for kitchen gossip  of every soft word or
expressive glance. And to Sydney, comparison
of this, her delicate and elegant
home, with Jacob Cheene's poor lodgings,
rich only in what were banished here 
relics of her father ; sight of her mother's
long white jewel-decked hands, diamond
pins nestling in folds of Honiton upon her
head, with remembrance of John Lewis's

toil, pain-wrung joints and poverty-stricken
garments, these turned her so heart-sick
that each minute seemed interminable.
Involuntarily she breathed a heavy sigh
as Eupert filled his claret-glass from the
glittering silver jug, and he interpreted it
according to his own desire.

'A hot dining-room is a bad place to
shut you up in, Sydney, after six hours of
railway carriages. It's a lovely night
swallowing his wine, and walking off, with
a gesture of permission from Mrs. Alwyn,
to the long, open window at the end of
the apartment ; c doesn't somebody say
somewhere, "Methinks I will go forth and
scent the new-mown hay." I think it
would be a good notion to imitate.
They've been cutting in the field opposite
this afternoon. Sydney '  with an effective
change of note, and momentary halt

upon her name  c won't you come out,
too ? It's just what you will like.'

She got up, a tinge of colour rising,
and went to the window.

Now,' he said, for her ear alone ; ' you
will come with me, by me, Sydney. Do !
I have been wanting you  waiting for so
long.'

He put all needful pleading in his tone.
It sounded marvellously true. Would he
stand by her now ? And if he did !

'May I get you a shawl?' he persuaded
her. ' You must be taken care of, you
know. You are a valuable person. You
are coming ?'

But that stray hint of value scared her.

4 No she said, slowly, almost faintly;
'I dare  I cannot come now, indeed.'

Too tired ?' very softly.

Yes. Too tired, Rupert.'

VOL. II. i

Then you shall not be troubled.' The
young man reckoned himself most
chivalrously unselfish. To give him his
due when, as now, he deemed himself secure
of his end, his disposition was not unkindly.
Aunt Helen, Sydney should sleep the
clock round, to revive her from this jaunt.
I am bidding her good-night.'

Wise, I have no doubt,' said Mrs. Alwyn.
4 Good-night, my dear,' as Sydney, returning,
stooped over her. 4 What ? Will I
not come to your room by-and-by ? Certainly
not. Gossiping at night is against
my rules, and you must defer to them fora
few more hours. To-morrow you are
yourown mistress, you know, and I suppose
we must honour the occasion by letting you
talk as you like and do as you like.'

So, shivering over this unusually complaisant
forecast, Sydney was dismissed to

her slumbers ; and Mr. Rupert, after a few
minutes star-gazing by himself, put his head
in, with,

f It's too agreeable out of doors for anyone
to stay in. Suppose you venture
out, and take a turn with me, Leonora?
You won't mind a cigar ?'

1 Would you have asked Sydney to allow
it, Cousin Eupert ?' said she, pouting.

Circumstances alter cases, Cousin
JSTorah,' said he, taking out his Russia
case, and thinking : ' She's over-old to
pout, but it's uncommonly becoming to
her!'

c Then suppose I don't come ?' coquetted
Leonora, attitudinising by the window-frame.


Take me or leave me, as you will,' said
the gentleman, resignedly, striking his
match, and stepping out on the gravel.

ic

Then I'll be benevolent enough to take
you,' she said, out of pity !' And stepped
forth after him.

CHAPTER V.

SOME GRIEFS AEE Medicinally.

Mb. Villiers was down betimes next
morning.

Knowing that Sydney was generally
earliest to appear in the breakfast-room,
he calculated on receiving her alone He
had something in his waistcoat-pocket that
he kept fingering, taking it out now and
then to look at. A thick gold circlet, set
with sapphires three. He had the words
ready with which to offer this, and birthday
greetings, and  himself ! He ran the

little speech through mentally half-a-dozen
times while pacing to and fro in the fresh
morning air, casting a glance each turn he
took past the window to see if she for
whom he waited had appeared. He felt
the minutes tumultuous. Once over, he
could get his breakfast without that awkward
sensation of a screw propeller at
work under his shirt-front. He could
dash off a line to Tufter and sundry others
fixing a day for '

The door opened. ' Now for it !' thought
he, and made one stride in. Check ! It
was Leonora J

Leonora in pale blue cambric, looking,
for twenty-nine, quite youthful, as she
stood with her back to the light, her brown
locks rolled away in a tight knob, bathing
fashion. Not hearing her cousin's step on
the thick mat behind, she was bestowing
all her attention on the arrangement of

some object by Sydney's plate. It was her
birthday gift. Characteristic enough. A
gilt-framed, tinted photograph of her own
fair self in sumptuous array. Square
bodice deep cut, pearls on the wide display
of bosom, golden coils well-nigh the only
covering of the well-posed arms, face raised
just enough to give the stately curve of
the neck and catch the upward tilt of the
eyelashes, folded hands resting on a tall
flower-vase so as to conceal no undulation
of the handsome figure. It was certainly
the likeness of a very good-looking person,
and the original, contemplating it with
blandest satisfaction, felt half sorry she
was going to part from it. None of fashion's
beauties whom she had seen could compare
with it to her mind. Fashion's beauties !
Ah !  with an audible ' Height !'  was the
day coming, how close was it, when some
society paper, perchance, would go forth

bearing her lineaments to the upper ten
thousand, her name above, not an unwed
belle, her signature below, not Leonora
Villiers ! c Height !' said she again, and
gave a great start when her cousin, advancing,
echoed her jocosely.

What mean those plaintive sounds,
Leonora mia ? Are you wishing it were
your twenty-first birthday over again, and
you were going to have all sorts of good
things given to you ?'

Indeed no, Rupert. I am not the very
least envious of Sydney in  any respect.
I suppose I sighed because I want my
breakfast

Creditable subterfuge, if not correct
answer. Well, I've been sighing here the
last half-hour because I want  my breakfast
! Is Sydney taking my injunction
literally and going to sleep the clock
round before she comes down?'

When she does we shall have to wait
for mamma,' answered Leonora, demurely.
But take comfort, dear cousin, they won't
be long. I heard mamma call Sydney into
her boudoir just as I came down, to give
her some lace, and a lecture, I presume.
This '  indicating the picture  ' is what
I have got for her. Do you think she will
like it ?'

She must,' said Mr. Villiers ; ' that goes
without saying. I do.'

Which,' returned Leonora, with a droop
of her red lips, ' is a perplexing arrangement
of sentences. Am I to infer that
because you like it  or say so  Sydney
must do the same ? And do you expect
my step-sister's opinion invariably to
mould itself sweetly to yours, good
cousin ?'

'Oh, I've no fears on that point!' replied
Mr. Villiers, thinking with amuse-merit,

'Ah, charming .Norah, you are
disposed to be spiteful, are you ?'

Then I hope you may find you've no
need for them said she, drily. ' Oh,
here comes mamma,' looking through the
open door up the hall. ' Sydney reserves
herself, a la premiere danseuse, for the last
to-day, to be received with united honour?.
"Why, mamma, what is the matter?'

She might well ask. Mrs. Alwyn entered
with a rapid sweep ; storm on her
brow; extremest paleness, underlying a
skilful application of pearl powder, making
her almost ghastly ; the grand dame
completely lost in the angry woman.
Pushing-to the door, she cut short Mr.
Villiers' salutation, and throwing herself
into a chair, panted, locking and unlocking
her hands in an abandonment of
violent agitation.

Aunt Helen, ' exclaimed Rupert Villiers,
while Leonora ran to the bell : sal volatile
must be wanted ; c are you ill ? Or what
on earth has happened ?'

Ah ! what, indeed ? "Why  ' cried
Mrs. Alwyn, turning on him with an
almost ferocity that made him fall back a
step ; c why, what never would have happened
at all, Eupert  don't ring, Leonora ;
Phillips is not to come in never at all, if
you had let me follow my own senses and
stop Sydney from going on that crazy
journey ! I knew no good would come of
it. Now, you'll see what you have done
for yourself  for Sydney  for all of
us ! Oh, it's enough to drive a woman
wild!'

'My dear aunt Eupert began, soothingly,
but she flung a snarl at him with,
1 Don't, Mr. Villiers ! Don't speak to me I

Not to me ! If you've any persuasion in
you, any reason, any influence, go and
exert them on Sydney. Tell her I shall
never forgive her ; not '  with a tempest-clap
of ironical laughter  ' that she will
mind that ! Tell her she'll break your
heart, Rupert, invent any plea you choose,
but, for mercy's sake, put an end to this
mad idea, or I can't tell what will come tous
all. Go to her, pray. I said I should
send you. Leonora, my poor, poor darling,
get me some water.'

Profoundly puzzled and disturbed, Mr.
Villiers needed no urging, but went, as he
was bidden, to the boudoir. Not too
quickly, for he wanted to arm himself with
some clue to this sudden turmoil before
entering. What was the mad idea that
was to be the undoing of them all ?
Another love ? Another engagement ?
That was all he could imagine. Something

beneath her ? Not likely, with
Sydney's temperament, but women are
ungain cattle, he thought, with a sudden
spice of savageness, in affairs of the heart.
Once Mrs. Alwyn had said something of a
man called Drayton. Was he at the
bottom of this hullaballoo? Had not he,
himself, Rupert, been hot enough in his
siege ? By George, he vowed, with the
peach so near his lips he wouldn't lose it
now ; at any rate, not for want of warm
wooing ! So with the bristling front of impatient
fervour he prepared to fight tooth
and nail for his own  interests  and thus
entered Sydney's presence.

She seemed waiting for him, and met
his first gaze of questioning entreaty with
a bearing incomprehensible in its blending
of womanly firmness with girlish
tremor.

 My dear, dearest Sydney,' he exclaimed,

offering to grasp both her hands  he
was ready to take her to his arms even,
the bolder the attack the better now ! 
but she repulsed him with a blush that was
not unkind, and asked, looking up most
wistfully,

1 Have you heard, Eupert ? And do
you '

'I have heard,' he interrupted, 'only that
you have been frightening Aunt Helen
with some fancy that is to upset us all.
But I can't have that, you know !' (with a
masterly softening of tone. She could
never keep her eyes on him like this if
there were another man in the case. He
breathed again.) ' Come,' essaying to
draw her to the sofa, ' tell me what it all
means, my  dearest. I may say that, may
I not?'

1 Wait,' she said, and freeing herself,
took a chair close by. 'Rupert, I wish

mamma had told you everything. But you
do know about my father's money going,
do you not  all of it ?'

1 Yes. All but your mother's and
jours, luckily.' What was she driving
at?

All but ours. Hers and mine. Luckily,
I suppose; or I might never have been
able to do what I shall now. For did you
know too, Rupert, that many people 
very poor ones  had lent papa their
money, and  and have never had it back
from then till now ?'

He caught a glimpse of her intention,
and resolved instanter to treat it as
untenable.

1 Well, yes, I think I know what you
are alluding to,' he said, assuming carelessness
: 'but, of course, all that unfortunate
business was wound up ages
ago. All these great smashes, you know,

mines and banks, and so forth, involve a
lot of little interests. It never can be
helped. You must not think of concerning
yourself about it. How came you to hear
of it even V

1 It was chance, or '  looking beyond
him, with what he silently dubbed a
fanatical sort of resolve, that made him
very uncomfortable  'or something wiser
that took me among these very people on
Wednesday. So I know all about them.
And the money that is mine to-day is justa
very little over the bare sums they lent.
So, Rupert, I am going to pay it to them.'

Sydney. Impossible f

She watched him while she unfolded her
plan. Now her spirit sank and her head
drooped.

c Ah !' she said, c I was afraid you would
think so

Afraid !' he exclaimed, getting up excitedly.

' Why, my dear  why, Sydney,
you must have known what I should think
what I should say. It's only what any
man, short of an idiot, would say, let alone
anyone who cares for your welfare ; who
cares for you as I do ! Listen to me :'
halting before her, ' I do assure you
occurrences like these are as common as 
as ditchwater. Your father's business was
purity itself compared with most failures.
These people you talk about ought to have
watched their own interests better than
they did. But for them to go and rake
up their grievances, and impose them on
you now !  for you to dream of stripping
yourself penniless on their behalf ! why, it
isn't to be thought of for an instant. It
would be most preposterous absurdity.'
It would be common honesty.'
'No, no. You are not a judge of these
worldly matters. I tell you we can't allow

VOL. II. k

it. You must not do it. Sydney, you
shall not !'

1 But, Rupert, I will.'

He had overshot the mark. Sydney
stood up, too, confronting him. The
colour ebbed from her face, but her clear
eyes and her mouth were resolute, in what
she fully now discerned was to be a double
sacrifice. Mr. Yilliers was beside himself
with an anger he dared not give vent to.
He walked from her, frowning, and stood
at the window, staring moodily out.

1 thought it was just possible,' she said,
sadly, ' that you might have sided with me.
But I see now, I ought not to have expected
it.'

It seems,' he answered, almost roughly,
4 we have all been expecting things we are
not likely to get !'

1 Ah, it does !' Her accent was so sorrowful
that Mr. Villiers's fit of mortification,

on his own behalf, suddenly yielded
to a wave of other impulse. He turned
about. She was young. A most fair
woman. The one his imagination had
dwelt on for months as his very own.
This project must be overthrown. He
would have her !

He went to her again very gently.
Pardon me now for speaking as I had
no right. But if you followed your most
generous wish, Sydney, don't you know
what you would do besides grieving your
mother terribly, and putting her  little as
you intend it  putting her unjustly to
much pain ? Why, you would be treating
me cruelly. For you must have seen what
I have been wanting to tell you for weeks,
what I was going to tell you this morning,
surely, as well as if I had said it. You
are not going to cast away what I was
going to offer, just that you may carry out

k2

the scheme of one day's surprise. Are
you, Sydney dear?'

Such a void was there in her life  in
her heart. She bent to the tender note as
young bud-laden branches sway before the
whisper of the spring's south wind.

Oh ! must it be one or the other?' she
cried. And Rupert Villiers caught at a
method of hedging out of the dilemma.

See now,' he ventured, ' how would this
do ? Make me your almoner. Let me
take  if you are bent on liberality  a
thousand pounds, and give it among these
people. A douceur they have no shadow
of right to expect, and ought to be grateful
to you for ever for. Then we  you and I,
Sydney  would contrive to be satisfied
with the rest. Say "yes" to this, and put
an end to all this trouble, and give me
leave to be happy !'

She moved away from his offered caress.

Rupert, 1 should neither feel myself a
wife worthy any man's love, nor a daughter
worthy of my dear, dead father's, if I did
say "yes"' she answered. ' So, if it needs
five thousand pounds, or three, or one, to
buy me a place in your home, why, I must
go without it.' She stopped herself
sharply in a sob. What woman feels no
sting in the discovery, that it is her purse,
and not herself, that is coveted? 'And you
can be  easily, perhaps  happy without
me.'

'Good heavens ! Sydney, you are obstinate
enough to drive a man mad !'

1 1 cannot alter.'

1 Would you expect me to take you to
some hovel of a home '

{ No, I expect nothing of the sort.'

And there vegetate on my salary !'

1 Rupert, I have made you angry. Forgive
me, and leave me.'

But the baffled suitor was overbearing
now with disappointed rage, and coarsely
gave it rein.

Would you expect me to marry on my
own beggarly pittance, and rear up a brood
of paupers '

4 Mr. Villiers. Go!'

She gave her order as still as a statue.
Only her bosom, not her voice, upraised.
He could have bitten his tongue out for
the lapse the moment it was uttered. But
there was no quarter in her attitude. He
dared not disobey. He turned slowly on
his heel, and went.

In the room below, Mrs. Alwyn, calmer,
much eau-de-Cologned and sal-volatile,
met him with,

'Well, Rupert, well? What's to be
done ?'

 Nothing,' he answered, sullenly ; l but
to get our breakfasts. Then I may as well

go and meet my father. Leonora, here's
something I've no use for now. If you care
for such gewgaws, take it

He tossed the sapphire ring across the
table, and then the three sat down to anything
but a lively meal.

An hour later Mr. Yilliers went off to
HedyDgham to fetch the Major, damping
his cheery, ' Well, may I wish you many
happy returns of the day, my boy ?' with a
surly, ' No, you may not, sir.' And disclosing
on the return drive the source of
this miserable fiasco.

Astounded at the tidings, the old officer
could only repeat, ' Bless my heart ! I
never heard such a thing, never ! To
think John Alwyn's obligations should turnup
just now, and his child saddle herself
with them like this. Bl  e  ss  my 
heart !' till finding that these ejaculatory
minute-guns only increased his son's

irritation, he held his peace while the last
two miles were bringing him to his interview
with Mrs. Alwyn.

That sorely-tried lady received him with
overflowing tears, and plunged into her
afflictions even as she shook hands.

'Now, Major Villiers, you see what
Sydney is. Nowyou will find the difficulty,
the impossibility of dealing with her disposition.
Against my will, as she must
well have known, though, unhappily, I let
poor Eupert over-rule me, she went oh on
that silly sentimental expedition. Without
my leave she must needs go further,
forsooth, and hear some man's whining
farrago, which, instead of coming home to
have explained, she prefers investigating,
through that most impertinently interfering
Mr. Cheene. And this is the upshot.
She takes her destiny into her own hands,
Major Villiers. Well, let her. She deliberately

impoverishes herself. She is wilful,
wilful, to the verge of wickedness. My
only consolation is, come what may, the
work is none of mine V

Knowing, as he did, the domestic drama
from its first scenes, and strongly disposed,
spite of his disappointment, to view the
culprit's conduct as constable, if not
justifiable, the Major took this accusing
tirade in silence. It went sorely against
him to join forces for a moment against
an absent minority, that minority, one
solitary girl, spending her worldly all to
redeem her father's name.

'Suppose I go and speak to Sydney
myself,' he volunteered, ' and see if I can
win her to look at things differently.

1 Oh, by all means go, Major !' his
hostess cried. 'But as to moving her.
H  f!' expressively, 'as well expect to
stop the wind from blowing.'

And so, indeed, he found it, not altogether
 lightly be it written, for he never
dared confess as much from that day to
this !  to his dissatisfaction. Saving a
cup of luke-warm coffee, brought unordered,
Sydney had taken little enough
now for a long wearing stretch, and, though
sick and faint, she hailed his coming not
only fearlessly, but gladly. She let him in
very sober argument go over the whole
ground of contest, point out how absolutely
she would alienate herself from comfort at
home, probably from all chances of prosperity
in any quarter ; how Quixotic her
conduct would sound to the world, how
unlooked-for her money was by these
statute-run creditors, and, therefore, ' how
unnecessary  er  as they're not expecting
anything, don't you see, my dear, what a
pity  as it were, to  to open old
wounds '

1 What ! Even to try and heal them !'
she said, her pale face irradiating with
something that made it better far than
lovely. ' Do you recollect, did you ever
know, Major Villiers, what sort of people
they are I want to make amends to V

Not exactly,' he confessed. ' Mr.
Russel told me at the time of an effort
to get at some of your mother's settlement
on behalf of some individuals, but
she  but it was resisted. And if I had
known every single case I couldn't have
given up a penny of the trust-money. That
could only be dealt with by principals.'
As it is going to be.'

Then Sydney told him simply who ' her
creditors ' were. The old, the poor, the
struggling, trusting, defenceless. l And
now,' she said, looking steadfastly at him
through the heavy drops gathering in her
eyes, ' will you tell me, quite truly, Major

Villiers if you think I do well or ill to
pay them?'

And the poor Major, without so much
as a cartridge left, could only brush, he
said, the midges off his face with his big
Indian silk handkerchief, and argue,

1 Still, my dear child, have you realised
how this will leave you? Why, with fifty
or sixty pounds, no more ! And suppose
your mother doesn't  doesn't smooth
down for awhile. You'll be dependent on
her, you know. She'll feel that unfair,
I'm afraid '

'I won't let her,' Sydney cried. The
truth was bitter though, and made her
falter. 'Mamma shall not be burdened
with me. I ought to be worth my salt
somewhere to some one. If God helps
those who help themselves, Major Villiers,
then I won't be afraid. I think He will
help me.'

There was no urging argument past
this. The Major went presently down,
getting rid of more midges by the way, to
his son, of whom, and his discarded suit,
he had not ventured to speak to Sydney.
But now, joining the young man in a
gloomy promenade up and down the fir
walk, he said, with some of that enthusiasm
stigmatised by Mrs. Alwyn as unbusinesslike,


1 My boy, sooner than give up that girl,
I'd take her without a farthing, if I were
in your shoes, and could get her. She's a
woman of a thousand !'

Bat as she also happens to be a woman
without a thousand, she is not the one forme,
sir,' returned Rupert, sulkily. He had
pitied himself into a perfect slough of exasperation
against the headstrong young
marplot. ' I don't forget what the proverb
says, " "When poverty comes in at the door,
love flies out of the window." '

'Ah, but there need be nothing that
young folks like you two ought to call
poverty at your door, my lad. Not if the
hundreds I've put by can stave it off. If
the love is only there to begin with, I'd
marry her as soon  sooner than ever. I
would, upon my honour, Rupert !'

Then I think it's well for the future of
both of us that my head is cooler than
yours, sir,' was the ungracious response to
this. With his hands crammed down in
his coat-pockets, the young gentleman
marched abruptly off by a side path, and his
father saw that further persuasion would
be vain.

Each man felt awkward, out of place at
The Dale any longer, and both left by
evening. The younger, still steeped in
self-commiseration, vouchsafed no message
of farewell to Sydney. The elder sought
her out, and said good-bye full as paternally

as if the darling scheme he had been
cherishing were nigh fulfilment. * However
matters turn out he said, ' if ever you
want anything that I can give, don't be
above asking it. You know where to find
me.'

He was thinking that some of pusillanimous
Mr. Rupert's intended wedding fund
might be of service to the girl. Alas, before
London was reached he had discovered
that must go in another direction. For
the son, wisely calculating that the flare of
the day's conflagration would cast his
private peccadilloes into shadow, made a
clean breast of debts, I U's included, as
they travelled up, and clumsily shouldering
the farewell sins of bachelorhood on the
design just broken off, secured a promise
of clearing-up that emptied the Major's
reserve fund, to the last note.

Before night closed around The Dale,

Mrs. Alwyn had another interview with
Sydney, and gave her the result of twelve
hours' meditation on her conduct.

Looked at in every light, you are
doing me, your sister, and yourself a gross
injury. What course you will take I am
too frightfully upset to contemplate. But
this I warn you, Sydney. The fortune I
had secured when I married your father,
then old enough to be my father '  pausing,
that her daughter might recognise the
unequal bargain  ' I consider Leonora's.
Pray don't deceive yourself into expectation
of sharing it.'

i I will not, mother.'

As for your home, if you consider you
ought to diminish, by sharing it, your sister's
provision and mine, for a month or six
weeks, do so. But, plainly, I tell you, you
ought by then to find means of maintaining
yourself. I have one thing to beg, to

insist on. I will not have all this business,
which I have laboured for your sake and
Leonora's to keep concealed, bruited now
about the parish

I will speak of it to no one.'

It might ruin Leonora's prospects, as
you have contrived to let it ruin your own.
And, another thing. I will not have the
bearer of my name publicly place-hunting.
You, who can do so much for your father,
must do this for your mother. Wherever
you earn your living, drop the name of
Alwyn, I beg for the time being. Don't
disgrace me by open association with paid
labour.'

Sydney bent her head, her heart for a
moment too full for speech. But as Mrs.
Alwyn would have rustled off to her own
room, she stayed her, a hand pleadingly
upon her shoulder.

'Mother, I am but trying to do the

VOL. II. L

best I can with what I have while it is
mine.' (Robert Vaughan's lesson, well
learnt, well learnt !) c Some day you may
take my wilfulness less hardly. Do kiss
me.'

Even in her white heat of anger Mrs.
Alwyn could not refuse : but she went
forth, her handkerchief to her eyes, and
took revenge on sentiment by  wondrous
to relate  snubbing Leonora !

That young lady, however, least ruffled
of all the household, reflected calmly, as
she put her sapphire ring beside her other
jewels, that it was an ill wind that blew
no one any good. She had got a present,
after a kind, and, while people had been
hanging about in consultation indoors,
she had enjoyed, when strolling about the
lawn, a brief meeting with Mr. Edward
Duvesne. He had betrayed some nervousness
 suggestive sign ! Had wished

to see Mrs. Alwyn particularly. Hoped
he should fortunately find her disengaged
some early day.

Which meant ?

Leonora smiled serenely, as, after gazing
affectionately at her portrait, she
wrapped the flattering semblance carefully
up and laid it away. It was lucky,
after all, she had not given it to poor,
ridiculous Sydney. It would be ready
now for some one else. ' Oh, silly, silly
Sydney,' she thought, with her last yawn,
she would soon have to be going somewhere,
as mamma said, and where would
that be !'

In the next room that question was in
its first stage of solution.

Sydney, sleepless, had turned out the
few contents of her travelling bag, among
them a scrap of paper that came upon her
as a messenger, she would fain hope, of

l2

good. And before she lay down to resta
note was written, signed with her first
initials only, to one Miss Hurst, far off in
the western county.

CHAPTER VI.

COURAGE Mounted WITH OCCASION.'

That The Dale during the next few days
was anything but the abode of cheerfulness
is a fact requiring little imagination
to paint.

To Sydney Mr. Villiers 5 prompt desertion
was a realistic comment on the course
she had taken, such as might have purchased
some women's repentance and
possible recantation. But having put her
hand to the plough, the last thing on
earth to turn the girl back would have
been personal suffering, had that been ten

times sharper than what she had to bear.
But sharp and cruel as this was, tempting
her to disbelief that love and trust could
ever re-enter her life, the keenest venom
of the last sting lay in the fact that she
had been too willing to grasp at the semblance
of affection, too ready to read the
ways of the wooer by the light of her own
wishes! Or thus she thought, laying the
scourge of self-chastisement across her
heart, so bruised and sore already, and
every spark of dignity within her flew
ablaze at the affront she conceived herself
to have courted by taking for pure gold
what was but poorest dross. In the despair
of mortification she planted her foot with a
pride (that most truly did feel pain) on
every tender remembrance or emotion, and
strove with all her might to count her love
well lost. Chill, bleak, was her outlook
now, the sole ray of light among her many

clouds, the firm belief that, even as her
father would have had her, she was doing
well, come what might.

Beyond the house for days she would not
stir. Mary Dacie for one would soon trace
trouble in her bearing, and would scarcely
be satisfied without searching into that
whereon she had promised silence. A line to
the Gate House (shown, before sent, to her
mother's jealous eyes) bade them not wonder
at her absence, she had so much to
busy her at home ; and the long summer
hours Sydney passed in setting her
possessions in order, ready for whatever
might come next.

Leonora, meanwhile, regarded her with
a mixed pitying amazement and slightly
supercilious kindness that was far from
soothing.

To think,' said this young lady to her
step-sister, whom she watched working,

herself lazily swaying in a rocking-chair,
enjoying the dolce far nienie of a hot afternoon,
'to think you should go, Sydney, and
give up quite a respectable income, that
would have always kept you decently, and
dressed you  oh, really remarkably well !
I wouldn't have done it if I had been

you!'

The asseveration was so sincere it fetched
a smile to Sydney's grave face.

If you had been in my stead, Leonora,
you might have acted the same !'

Never !' very emphatically. ' Of course,
it's done and can't be undone, but I'm
really very sorry for you, Sydney. I wish
you had not been so frightfully foolish.
You will find it very disagreeable after
living here so nicely to go down and be a
sort of common person. I don't expect
you have half thought of that.'

1 1 don't expect I have.'

1 People who have money, you know, are
treated very differently from those who
have not, Sydney. You will find that
out.'

c I have found it out already.'

A  h I' prolonging the interjection.
'Yes, so you have. And do you know
you'll most assuredly be sorry some day
you drove Rupert from you ? Poor
fellow !'

We will not talk of that, Nora, please,'
said Sydney, terse only because a great
qualm of rebellious weakness threatened
self-command ; and gathering her work together,
she silently went away.

c Angry with me for interfering, I suppose,
as usual,' deplored Leonora to her
mother ; ' though I spoke mildly enough,
and only for her good. But Sydney will
never leave off being headstrong.'

This ultimatum Mrs. Alwyn fully

endorsed, and resigned herself to illness as
its result. Appearing downstairs only at
luncheon and dinner, she spent the time
dejectedly in the boudoir above, word going
forth to servants and callers that
neuralgia necessitated this seclusion. To
Sydney she accorded a mournful civility
that implied 'you shall have nothing to
complain of, however you have made me
suffer !' And with scrupulous politeness
when they met at table she would offer her
peccant daughter a share of each separate
viand, though the tone in which she would
ask, ' Do you wish for butter, Sydney ?'
would seem to say that on the insane
course she had chosen it was her duty to
discard all luxuries, butter included !

Mr. Russel's opinion of his niece arrived
in due course. Mrs. Alwyn handed
her brother's letter in its uncompromising
frankness to Sydney. The writer made

no attempt to mince matters : ' For you
see,' he said to Major Villiers, who went
down to Hampshire to talk the position
over with his co-trustee, ' you can afford to
side with her if you like. She's no relation
of yours. But she is of mine. And
I don't hesitate to call her a fool !'

Which sentiment he expressed very
candidly in his epistle, l though,' as he
wound up, ' there is very little use in my
saying this, for we are well aware, and
Sydney is equally aware, no one can stop
her if she chooses to persist in this
insane folly. I must only beg you to
explain to her that she is not to count on
legacies from me or my wife. Maria's
relatives will have most of what I have
got. The rest to those who know how to
take care of it, which Sydney doesn't.
Please to inform her that the sum to
which she is entitled will be placed

in the London and County by the 18th
prox. The transfer from stock I can manage
myself, as I often deal in this sort of
thing. The usual per centre I shall, of
course, deduct.'

Thus delivered himself Mr. Russel, the
excellent man of all trades, though gentleman
of no profession, who, in his alacrity
to turn an honest penny, did not disdain
the picking from his young relative's misfortunes.
And as if to prove herself true
to the strain, Mrs. Alwyn observed querulously,
as the letter was returned without
remark,

4 1 hope you are not forgetting that you
are indebted to me, Sydney ? It would bea
curious honour, indeed, which would
lead you to repay strangers' debts you
never incurred, and let your own mother
be loser of what she most unguardedly
lent you ! Of course those twenty pounds
are gone.'

'Not quite, mamma came the answer,
very low, for bitterness and sadness were
having about an even tussle in the
speaker's breast just then ; ' I have a little
left  enough to  take me away. And
I will soon hand back the rest I  owe
you.'

She went that same Wednesday, as the
sun's heat was moderating, by lanes and
field paths to Hedyngham, there found a
letter she was expecting addressed merely
to the post-office of the little town, and
read it as she went back to St. Clairs by the
same unfrequented way.

The rector, strolling beyond his garden,
Virgil in hand, saw her coming,
pre-occupied enough to have passed him
in the gloaming, had he not greeted her
with,

1 Well met again ! We are perplexed,
Miss Sydney, as to what you have been

doing with yourself of late. Halt now.
I am wanting to hear your latest news.'

'And I am wanting to tell it  all I can.
Mr. Vaughan, did you tell the boys I
meant to give them watches these next
holidays ?'

Tell them ? No.'

Oh, thank you.'

Thank me? Why?'

Because I cannot do what I thought I
would. I have not changed my mind one
bit, but things are altered.'

Altered, Sydney ? How ?' noticing
even in the waning light that her features
wore a very different aspect from when he
had last seen them, lit up with gladness,
in the church porch.

In this way. You remember what

you said to me of riches '

c And their flying away ? Yes.'

Well, mine flew the very moment their

wings were fledged. And all my plans
flew with them.'

4 My poor child ! Why, how '

1 No, hush ! And, if you please, ask
nothing. I did use them as you said I
ought while I had them. And that is all
I can tell. I wish I could have let you
hear the whole. But I cannot, though I
should go away happier.'

Go away ?'

4 Yes, very soon. "Without, perhaps,
seeing you again, leaving so much I had
meant to do undone! But I'm not to
talk of it. It's best for every one I
should not. This much even I can only
say to you  my spiritual counsellor.'

And your spiritual counsellor repeats
it to none,' the rector answered, discerning
the seriousness of deep anxiety below the
would-be jest. Then he let her walk by
him with but few words till his garden

was regained, where she could only make
a bad attempt at thanking him for years
of countless kindnesses, midway in which
she broke down into an all but speechless
farewell, and hurried away towards home.

1 Is there a ban upon my pupils ?' the
master thought, watching the slender
figure out of sight. Then with a sigh,
turning indoors, ' First  one, and now
this other seem to come into deep waters.
And both, I should have arrogantly claimed,
as fit as any for the best things the
world had to give. I wonder how old I
shall have to be before the truth is driven
into me that One above knows best f

Late in to dinner, Sydney followed her
mother upstairs to explain her absence.

I have done as you wished, mamma. I
have found a place where I can earn some
sort of living. Will you wish me to go
directly ?'

'I wish!' exclaimed Mrs. Clwyd. 'Have
I a single wish on such an unnatural
proceeding ! It is no wish of mine,
Sydney, but your own grievous obstinacy
that takes you away. "Who are the people,
and where is the place ?' leaning back, her
glasses dangling down unused, a fan over
her eyes.

'It is a lady to whom I wrote. I
travelled with her last week. By accident
she told me she was wanting a companion,
and now she is willing to let me go for a
time. I shall be paid only a little, but
enough to get on with if I suit her.'

c If ! Yes, and if you do not ! What
then ?'

Well, then, mamma,' fighting bravely
to keep hopeful, ' I must do as many and
many before me have done. People have
had to trust in Providence '

Mrs. Alwyn flung up her hands and

VOL. II. m

brought ber eyebrows into an acute angle.
She had no intention of being blasphemous,
but the contempt she contrived to pour
into her answer was worthy of an unblushing
atheist.

1 Providence, Sydney ! Providence ! If
I had wanted proof of your appalling
wrong-headedness, I have it now, when I
hear you adopting the slang of a canting
pauper ! There, go on.' Fanning herself
rapidly. ' This state of things will drive
me demented. Pray go wherever you
choose. "What is the name of the person

who takes you ?'

'It is Miss Hurst, of Wynstone, in

Herefordshire, mamma.'

Mrs. Alwyn looked up with a start of

angry fright.

1 You remembered my injunction about

your own name ? This woman may be a

connection of people who once knew us.

Hursts abound in that part of England.
Tor you, Sydney Alwyn, to be known as
living in a species of service might prove
an injury to Leonora, who is, at least, unoffending.
Never forget that, Sydney, unless
you desire to be malicious.'

i I have not forgotten it, mother. I
never will. Shall I leave here on Saturday?'


1 If you are determined on going, on all
that leads to your going, yes.'

So, daring to make no general adieux,
with no time to spare for nursing grief,
Sydney made ready to depart. On the last
evening she ventured a brief visit to the
Gate House, where her puzzled friends had
missed her sorely.

1 And now going out again, do you say ?'
cried the doctor, after his wife's bond fide
improvement had been gladly vaunted.
1 Why, how restless you've turned all on a

M 2

sudden. And pray how long are you
intending to neglect us, and what are we
to do without you ?'

Questions these that went nigh to drown
the phrases Sydney had prearranged to
quench curiosity. Answer died on her lips.
Mary saw in her pallor something that
escaped the elder folks' notice, and filled
the pause.

1 She must come back to us as much her
own usual self as mamma is now !'

Ah, and tell us,' said Mrs. Dacie, patting
her hand, l w T hen we are all to set about
making wedding favours. I wanted to
hear that the last night we were at Ched-
delay, but her head ached so when she
came back from Lutterthorpe, she could
hardly talk at all. But I'll be bound you
will have settled all that by the time
when you come home again, my dear.'

Mary saw the girl's face changing, now
flushed, now white.

1 Perhaps,' the doctor cried, ' the naughty
lassie means to steal a march, and get it
all settled before she comes home, Molly !
And we are to say a long good-bye to Miss
Alwyn.'

Another word, her self-restraint must
have snapped asunder. She got up with
a laugh, marvellously close on tears.
4 Eight, Dr. Dacie, of course. I am eloping,
undoubtedly. The chaise and postillion
are waiting by now, so I must be off !
Fare ye well.'

But Mary kept her arm about her to the
outer door, whispering,

There is something wrong, Sydney,'
(Concerning that Mr. Villiers, she thought;
loving him less than ever.) 'But you
will write about it to me V

4 As soon  if ever  I can,' faltered
Sydney, avoiding those pleading glances by
a close hug. ' And if you don't hear, even

for a long time, don't be frightened or
angry with. me. Oh, if  with a more
passionate outburst of regret than she had
ever spent on herself  ' if only I had done
something for you all before I went !'

We owe you too much now,' Mary
checked her quickly, tightening her arm
round Sydney's waist, as they went down
the old-fashioned path between great
gleaming patches of scented pinks. ' Can
I pay back nothing by sharing whatever
pain you have now ? I know there is
something. Am I to be no good to you ?'

'Not this time, Mary. For,' stopping
to measure how much could be said without
forfeiting her word, i for the difficulty
lies between mamma and me, so no one
can take part in it but ourselves. It is,'
slowly, weighing each syllable, ' that I am
doing something she  dislikes. And I 
won't give it up. Don't name it to her,

Mary. It would do no good. And ask
me nothing more. It would be only
friendly cruelty.'

Mary felt panic-stricken. Here was a
complication that forbade inquiry, and
drove her back on the old urging.

1 But you will write then, and give me
your address ?'

Sydney hesitated, finding, for the first
time in her life, what entanglements follow
on a first concealment. To admit herself
going among strangers, discarding her full
name, was impossible. There was only
one road out of the dilemma, and that she
took.

I might offend mamma doubly by giving
my direction to you, Mary. So, when
I write, it shall be through her, and I will
ask her to send me your answers back.
Ob, how I shall want to hear of you !
And, Mary, if some one  if Mr. Drayton

should come here, tell me directly, will
you ?'

Mary Dacie's touch trembled as she
stroked the head now resting on her
shoulder. 1 1 will tell you of him if he
comes. Do you want him to return then ?'

1 Oh, I do ! Badly ! If only he came,
as I know he meant, I think my troubles
would half vanish. And when you see him
you must be very kind to him.'

4 For her sake!' Mary Dacie thought,
giving with her farewell the promise that
for long dogged her slumbers like a nightmare.
For what could dispute with Mrs.
Alwyn mean but rejection of Rupert
Yilliers ? What that rejection but preference
for another, that other Richard Drayton?
He worthy of Sydney, Sydney of
him, who was she to come between them ?
Why, if she were not traitor to the girl
companion who had brightened so many

hours through so many years, she must
foster all chances of happiness for these
two, and yield herself fully to that
solitary state, never positively unpalatable
till the rector's quondam pupil had visited
St. Clairs last summer. A straight enough
highway of simple propriety lay before her.
Along it the doctor's daughter prepared, in
all sober fidelity, to trudge, though it was
like journeying from sunshine into night.

Betimes next morning Sydney quitted
The Dale, home of nigh all remembrance
days, aud started on new seas, horizon
limitless, ultimate haven unknown. Of
her mother and sister she took briefest
leave in their own rooms, and Phillips
only, who could make neither head nor
tail of what had been going on this last
week, now watched her pale young lady
departing alone with a shrewd suspicion of
something very queer afloat.

Quickly, before the dew was off the
hedge-rows, St. Clairs, with its wide, flat
meadows, sleepy stream, and church-crowned,
straggling village, was left far behind.

7 Oct O ill

Dreamlike the swift retracing of last week's
expedition, 'twixt when and now years
seemed to have rolled. By afternoon,
Cheddeley was passed. A rose she recollected
in bud upon the station fence was
only just full blown. Why, seasons might
have come and gone since she last saw it !
The longer route by Stillcote she had
chosen, just for a sight of Jacob Cheene
and the ' God speed ' of his faithful goodwill.
As the old man stood the four waiting
minutes beside her carriage, eyeing
her with a sort of timid fear lest her
valiant purpose should be giving way, or
she bowed down beneath it, she told him
that all was going well, and the promised
funds would reach him soon from Major

Villiers. Then, when Jacob could send
her word it was portioned out aright, she
should be happier and so thankful to him.

Mind, it is " a friend " who pays it
back,' she begged. ' That is enough for
any to know, and, Jacob, the "friend" is
changed into Miss Grey, .my mother desires
it so, and she goes to dvvell here,'
giving him the address, ' where, if she
behaves well enough to stay, you must
render up accounts to her. What are you
looking at ?'

'Th the this! Only this!' he answered,
with some confusion, carefully
putting up the paper she had given him.
I used to know the name  once.'

'My mother said the same. But it maybe
only chance. Anyhow as Sydney Grey
I shall not '  her lips involuntarily curving
sadly at the dread, ' disgrace any belonging
to me.'

'Disgrace!' the old clerk began  but
the train was gliding on. He could only,
hat in hand, bid her good-bye, and then
turn town ward, saying, slowly, ' Hurst,
Hurst. Ay, it's best, indeed, then, that
she should be Miss Grey.'

With evening Sydney reached her destination,
Capel Moor, high, wooded, three
parts encircled by a rushing river, on
whose thickly foliaged banks masses of
crags stood forth like sentries.

Then, with the end of her present wandering
in view, came the fear of excessive
weariness, the fall of spirits too long
forced. As she made the last mile afoot,
through scenes entirely strange, the full
sense came upon her that St. Clairs was
lost, no other certainty attained. For a
minute her heart fainted within her. Then
out from the clear amber sky gleamed one
bright star. She took it for an omen, and

thanked God. The lad who was her
guide and porter cried out from the rear,
This be Wynstone, miss.' Another instant,
and the homely features of last
week's acquaintance met her at a porch
covered with almond-scented e traveller's
joy.' She was bidden welcome, brought
into a room where light from the western
sky still lingered. There a tall figure
stood as if waiting her. ' My brother
Gilbert,' said Miss Hurst, with a nervous
gesture of explanation ; and Sydney recognised
one whose blind loneliness had
moved her pitying help ten days before.

CHAPTER VII.

miss grey's new duties.

Sydney bad speculated at different points
of her journey on who the 'us' of Miss
Hurst's communication signified. Would
there be a Mrs. Hurst, superannuated
perhaps, since this daughter appeared the
moving agent of the household, and deaf,
very likely, since the letter which had engaged
her had laid stress on her capabilities
of reading aloud several hours
each day ; or would there be other sisters,
invalid, maybe ; or a father, very old, perchance?
That she would like best of all,

and the brief glimpse of male equipments
on the small hall-stand had given this
fancy a momentary prominence, now swept
entirely away.

Whether to be glad or sorry, in the
surprise of this recognition, she hardly
knew, nor had she time to think whether
the former meeting were best acknowledged
or not. The feeling uppermost she
spoke.

1 1 have seen your brother before, Miss
Hurst, a little sooner than I met you, so
we are not quite strangers.'

4 As I should have known, the instant I
heard you speak,' said Mr. Hurst, turning
towards her voice and moving slightly forward
with some eagerness, but as promptly
dropping back into his first attitude of
leaning on the chimney-piece, arms folded
over his breast: 'I told you, Jean, that
foreign aid made up to me that day for our

missing each other's trains as we did. I
am glad  ' with a bow towards Sydney 
to be able to thank Miss Grey more fully
than I could then.'

1 "Well, really,' cried Miss Hurst, fc this is
extraordinary ! for us both to have met you,
both spoken to you ; my brother by a
double mischance, for the gentleman he
had been with sent him to the station too
early, so we missed travelling together, as
we ought to have done, and he came the
slow way round. And then for you to
have found a reason for taking the situation
I was talking to you about without the
slightest notion of your ever wanting it ;
upon my word that was a most remarkable
morning ! I hope its events may work
for the benefit of us all. Don't you, Miss
Grey ?'

A most remarkable morning it had truly
been. Sydney, yet something bewildered

over this its curious climax, had forgotten
her new personality and was thinking
instead of responding. Miss Hurst felt
uneasy. Whatever had induced this really
beautiful young woman to come to Vanstone,
she did trust the prospect of the
peculiar employment required was not
going to scare her away, make her a
worse disappointment than that weak
widow!

1 1 hope,' she repeated with interrogative
emphasis, ' we may none of us regret the
events of that singular morning, you
know V

Sydney quickly recovered herself.

'Oh no. Why should we? I,' quelling
a faltering of nerve, 1 1 never mean to.'
And re-assured by this, her hostess,
employer, whatever she was to be, shook
hands once more to make up perhaps for
her brother's not having done so at all, and

VOL. II. N

led the new-comer upstairs, just stopping
behind to utter the audible warning :

- Gilbert, stand still till I come down
again. You are not so used to this room
as the other. You may knock the chairs
over if you move

It's a fearful trial to him, is it not, Miss
Grey ?' she pursued, ushering Sydney to her
room, ' and in a less degree to me as well.
I'm sure, poor fellow, he's never off my
mind a moment. And the better he
bears it the more I've felt it my duty to
keep constantly with him, and make him
cheerful, which is not always easy. And
that re-acts upon myself, and this is the
real cause of my feeling we must have a
third party. You understand now, I
couldn't enter on all this in writing. It
would have looked awkward to say in
black-and-white, " I want you expressly
to help in taking charge of a blind man,"

would it not? And I thought, if you'll
excuse my saying so, that as you frankly
said you were leaving home from circumstances
you would rather not mention, why
I might be allowed a little reservation too,
you see?'

1 Quite,' said Sydney smoothing her dark
hair back with tired hands. Just peace
from reproach, leave to earn her bread
somehow, was all she felt to want awhile.
1 This makes no difference to me, Miss
Hurst, only show me how to be useful, I
will try and be it.'

And certainly I will show you that fast
enough,' said Miss Hurst, cheerfully, c but
we need not begin to-night. To-morrow
I'll explain. Now, supper will be ready ina
few minutes, if you can find your way
down. There's not much space to go
astray in. Your room and mine look out
at the back, a lovely view, as you'll say, by

k2

daylight. Through the swing door in the
passage the staircase and my brother's
room. That is shut in by poplars outside,
but, as I say, that doesn't matter to him.
As I thought to myself when your letter
reached me '

Yes ?' said Sydney, Miss Hurst having
come rather inconsequentially to a standstill.
' You thought?'

Oh,' hesitating,  nothing particular,
Miss Grey, I shall run on till I tire you.
But,' turning back at the door with a droll,
bird-like air of caution, ' excuse my naming
it, I hadn't mentioned anything about you
to my brother. Odd, but I hadn't.'

Very odd, as Sydney could realize later,
for her new friend had not the faculty of
keeping much to herself !

So he knows nothing about you, as it
were : age or anything personal. And it's
as well perhaps he should not. You'll feel

more comfortable, no doubt, if he imagines
you, like me, about seven-and-thirty. It
will put us on a pleasant footing, won't
it?'

Sydney scarcely saw the force of the
argument, but, agreement being expected
of her, she gave it without qualification.

4 From seventeen to seventy,' she said,
smiling, ' I don't mind the least what I am
supposed; I won't announce that I am
just twenty-one, I assure you ;' and with
that Miss Hurst descended, well pleased.

A very nice, capable person I think
this Miss Grey will turn out,' she informed
her brother, who stood resignedly as she
had left him, ' intelligent and companionable,
unless I'm much mistaken. So, Gilbert,
I hope I've hit on the means of giving
you pleasure and myself rest. No,' stopping
at a disturbed gesture of her brother,
I didn't mean that, of course. It was a

stupid thing to say. I'm always ready to
wait on you, Gilbert, my dear, and attend
to you. I consider my time freely yours.
Still I mean you'll naturally like a change
of voice about you sometimes, and I can
get out now and then, which is what I've
never liked to do, for fear you should have
an accident before I got back. Now this
er  person (an appellation so charmingly
vague Miss Hurst kept it sacred to
Sydney for many months) c will be in
charge of you, as it were, and I shall be
easy. So the relief will be great. And
with a little contrivance I can manage the
extra expense. I do so want you to be
comfortable. You are sure of that, are you
not, Gilbert ?'

'Yes, Jean,' he answered, the contraction
of forehead, sign of distress more
mental than physical, melting in a smile of
singular pathos, ' I'm sure I have a sister

with the kindest heart in the world. If
ever I seem to forget that, it is only
because I ache under the sense of being
such a burden to her.'

1 Now, Gilbert, don't !' Miss Hurst stroked
him affectionately with a huge wooden
crotchet-hook. She was one of those
women always diligently employing her
fingers. ' How can you be a burden ? you
know I have no one  now  ' with a querulous
sigh, ' to care for but you. It's my
duty and desire to make you happy.'

Than which nothing might be truer.
And yet, poor lady, never was method
clumsier than that she employed over her
task. For, Sydney re-appearing just then,
Miss Hurst begged her to follow to the
dining-room, and seizing her brother by
the arm, drove him, like a huge schoolboy
in disgrace, a few paces in advance ;
called volubly to Fanny, the young servant

in attendance, to put a certain mat
straight in the lobby, unless she wished
Mr. Hurst to trip over it and break his
limbs ; apologised to Sydney for ministering
first to her brother's requirements at
table, ' because,' in a stage whisper, ' it
might weary him to wait, as he can't see
what's going on !' And ere the end of
the meal, by perpetual acts palpably well
meant and exasperatingly tactless, plunged
her brother into patient taciturnity, Sydney
into sensitive discomfort. How she was
to fill the singular position into which
the evening inducted her became a prospect
so formidable that the tall figure of
Gilbert Hurst in every variety of unsuitable
dilemma haunted each hour of her
first night at Wynstone, while, as if to keep
her task to the fore, he himself was the
first object her glance lighted on when she
looked from her window next morning.

He was pacing to and fro on the
asphalted path bounding the garden,
which sloped from the house towards the
river, his square, well-knit frame more
upright than the night before, seemingly
freer, more at ease alone than when under
the cumbrous care of his watchful sister.
To the gate of an apple orchard one way,
to a thick hawthorn hedge with blossoms
on the wane the other, he passed and repassed,
turning at either end with a certainty
that told the way was familiar.
The sunshine, glinting through lilacs and
acacias, fell on a face so full of resolute
endurance that Sydney took shame to herself
for having for a moment shrunk at
the idea of serving him by any effort she
could command. No 7 she thought, with
a great generous commiseration, if it came
within her scope to soften the sharp
angles of his sister's ' excellencies,' toward

off some of the blows by which
affection ignorantly buffeted him, why,
hers be the task right willingly. Smoothing
his obvious troubles might deaden her
hidden ones.

c Ah !' Her thoughts were travelling
Rupertwards when she dispelled them
with the frightened exclamation. Mr.
Hurst had left his path, gone through the
orchard gate, traversed the narrow still
sloping meadow beyond, and now stood on
the very brink of the hurrying river, that
gleamed sparkling and shimmering over
pools and shallows, between this lower
and the westward bank. Surely he must
be in danger. Sydney flung up her window
hastily, but might have spared herself
alarm. Gilbert Hurst knew every
inch of Wynstone, and before her rising
cry took note, had turned from the seeming
peril and thrown himself on a rough

bench among the tall grass and buttercups
in an attitude that he must have assumed
in her dreams, so certain she felt of having
seen him thus before.

Ere she could trace this fancy, or half
take in the fair scene of rising tree-clad
hills, basking beyond the water in pure
morning light, undulating just enough to
give a glimpse of blue Welsh mountain
tops miles away, Miss Hurst was heard
below summoning her brother to breakfast,
her voice, of but few modulations,
keeping up a disjointed monologue about
as Apropos as her speeches of the night
previous.

1 Come along, Gilbert, I want you to be
quick in. It's nice, isn't it,' going to meet
him, 'if you are settled in your place
before a stranger comes down? Let me
open the gate for you. She'll soon be
used to you, and I daresay will not notice

anything much. I think you are wonderfully
handy  considering ! Mind this
corner. . Jones put some pansies here and
charged me a shilling for them. You
wouldn't like to walk on them, I know, so
I warn you. My poor geranium, that you
tumbled off the window-ledge, has not recovered
yet. But, of course, you couldn't
help it, so we'll forget all about it, won't
we !' She had got him by the shoulder
now, and was trotting awkwardly beside
him in an attempt to hasten his steps and
regulate her own to match. ' Don't you
think, Gilbert, you might take your other
tweed coat into wear for morning, now ?
This is fraying at the cuff, and I put an
odd button or two on. Just by ourselves it
didn't signify, especially when you didn't
know it. But really it's only fit to give to
Jones. I'll find the money for a new suit
soon. You must be properly dressed before

a third party. Here she comes t
Good-morning, Miss Grey. My brother
intends to honour you with a better coat.
But I tell him it's no consequence till tomorrow.
I trust you went to sleep soon.
This brother of mine has a bad habit of

sitting up after everyone else ' (' lamp

out, of course !' in over-distinct-aside),
and I heard him make a stumble on the
stairs. I was so afraid he should unintentionally
disturb you !'

But he had not in the least,' Sydney
hastened to assure them, as they reached
the breakfast-room. ' She had slept quite

enough, and ' by way of putting off

embarrassing topics, ' what a most beautiful
prospect there was from her window.
The woods and the river made such a perfect
picture. 5

But at this innocent remark, Miss Hurst y
with nods, and signs, and shakes of the

head, that infinitely perplexed Sydney,
made answer that, ' Oh, the place was
pretty enough. New-comers thought much
of it. Those who were used to it scarcely
gave it a thought, though. She didn't !
And now, would Miss Grey get a good
breakfast, and then she would like to unpack,
and then ' with more significant gestures,
' they could have a talk upstairs.'

Which took place about an hour later,
when Sydney had disposed some of her belongings
about the exquisitely neat, but
most prim, little room allotted her, and then
she learned not only some of her new duties
but much of sundry extra delicate rules of
conversation and behaviour laid down by
Miss Hurst for her brother's especial
behoof.

For,' said the lady, taking a dimity-covered
easy-chair herself, and motioning
Sydney to be seated opposite, ' I look at

things in this light. I say, u Here is my
poor brother, who has lost the power of
enjoying fine views and scenes, and so
forth, and, of course, every time these
things are talked about, he feels the
deprivation more !" So I make a point of
never speaking of them, or I make-believe I
don't care much about them. If he asks
about the woods opposite, I answer, quite
off-hand, " Oh, they're much as usual :
green ;" or if he talks of  well, sunrises or
sunsets  be used to be great at watching
things of that sort  I say I haven't anytime
to look at them. So I draw him ois
like that from enjoyments he cannot share.
You perceive ?'

Sydney bent her head silently. It was
not a plan that commended itself particularly
to her taste, but she must follow it,
unless she found a better.

It is intensely sad to think of what Mr.

Hurst has to bear,' she said, ' and it is so
difficult to realise. He looks only rather
short-sighted.'

 No. Which is a mercy, in its way,'
Miss Hurst agreed. ' I often tell him, when
he's depressed, that he has much to be
thankful for. I say, " You don't look the
least unpleasant, Gilbert. Some people
afflicted in this way I couldn't sit down to
table with. They seem to glare at one, or
their eyes look like cats' eyes, just as
they're going to sleep : most disagreeable.
But you? I say, " are precisely the same
good-looking man you always were." He
really is nice looking, Miss Grey.'

Very,' Sydney acquiesced.

1 So I cheer him up in a sort of playful
way, which you'll hardly be able to imitate
at present, but, no doubt, you'll help him
somehow.'

'I hope so.'

1 He's clever, as you will soon find out.
He paid most of his way at college with
coaching other under-graduates and getting
prizes. I expect, poor boy  he's five
years younger than I, Miss Grey  he
worked too hard from the beginning. But
necessity knows no law, though I need not
enter into that now. He was to have been
a barrister, but it became needful for him
to earn his living without loss of time, so
he did just anything that brought in an
income. I'm sure he never grudged his
earnings to his poor father when he was
living, or to me, so I willingly share everything
with him now. He was tutor at
some public school, and worked half the
nights through at some book he meant to
write. That helped the mischief with his
eyes, which never were strong. Then,
through a college friend's influence, the
Geographical Society sent him after some-vol.

II.

thing in Egypt. I can't explain what, but
it brought travelling through all seasons
and an immense deal more writing. He
never should have gone, but the pay was
so good and poor papa had to resign his
living then, and quite depended on Gilbert.
So he kept on abroad till papa died, and
then he came back with his sight ruined.
A cousin of ours had just left me this little
place and enough to keep it as you see.
And I said to poor Gilbert, " Come to
Wynstone, my dear brother, directly.
Cousin Priscilla's money is not very much
for two, but you shall have half and
welcome." And so,' finished Miss Hurst,
wiping away the moisture that suffused
her mild light orbs, ' here we are. And
I've told you all this, Miss Grey, so you
may understand why I'm economical, and
why I can't offer you much.'

Oh, please don't mention that,' said

Sydney, unbusiness-like enough to wish
she could have declined all payment.
Thank you for telling me, and let me
begin whatever I am to do.'

Then, come downstairs. Miss Grey, and
we'll hear what my brother wishes. It's a
great thing that you really like reading.
I don't. I like everything domestic much
better, and I assure you it was no joke to
be bound down to entertaining my poor
brother out of one of his clever books, that
I didn't understand, when cooking was
going on, and, perhaps, I could hear my
maids gossiping and smell my cakes burning,
and my heart was in the oven, so to
speak ! Oh, it was trying !'

That I can relieve you of,' said
Sydney.

And I shall certainly let you. Will
you excuse my asking, but can you spell ?'

'Spell? I hope so.'

o2

Then that's another advantage. I
can't. I mean anything out of the common.
I wrote a little paper out for Gilbert
once that he dictated, for a magazine,
but it was rejected, and I do believe all
because of my spelling. There were
marks pencilled under ever so many
words. And I'd spelt architecture with a
Jc y and, somehow, got three rs in paragraph.
I never dared tell Gilbert. Not
that he's hasty now. I daresay he
wouldn't blame me. Still, I'm glad you
can spell.'

For some time, however, this educational
power was not called into play.

Miss Hurst informed her brother, privately,
that the useful person was prepared
to act as amanuensis, but he was too
reticent or too shy to give her early opportunity
of doing so.

From a pile of blue-backed quarterlies

Sydney read aloud each morning in the
study, parted from the dining-room by a
passage running to domestic regions, while
in and out at the door or by the garden
window Miss Hurst would bustle a dozen
times an hour, vastly enjoying immunity
from literary drudgery and liberty to
superintend a slow cook and a housemaid
suspected of being flighty. Each afternoon
another volume would be chosen.
1 Shall Miss Grey begin where I left off,
Gilbert?' Miss Hurst questioned, handing
down a stiff work on Coptic records, with
a grimace expressive of strong distaste
for its contents. ' I've lost the marker, and
I don't remember where we were. I think
about 170 B.C. No. I suppose I mean
a.d. I get so mixed.'

Mr. Hurst, however, thoroughly relishing
his new reader's style, elected to begin
afresh, listening with a close attention

that inspired Sydney to throw more life
into her labour day by day. To her nature,
delighting more in giving than receiving,
it was keen pleasure to feel herself
the channel of interest from the
book's pages to the man's mind. That
obtrusive f ego,' which at first (small blame
to her) obscured the subjects with visions
of lost hopes, past struggles, past days*
became, as week merged into week, less
omnipresent. Theories, which drove Miss
Hurst over her tricot into gentle dozes,
grew fascinating to the scholar trained by
Robert Vaughan to something beyond
schoolgirl standard. A hard knot over
differing opinions set Sydney reading very
slowly once, with long pauses at the full
stops.

This is dull for you, Miss Grey,' Mr.
Hurst apologised, * I ought not to have
let yon go on. Pray leave off.'

I should be sorry to,' she answered, ' I
only wanted to get it clear to myself. I
wish I knew even the bare elements of
all this better.'

You do ?' he exclaimed. ' Then you

shall. There's a book ' getting up

impetuously, only to seat himself again,
with a sadly subdued expression. ' I forgot
I cannot find it. But Jean, you will.
Asleep, is she? Then when she wakes,
or, if it would do as well, I might tell you
what you want to know.'

That would, indeed, be better. But it
would trouble you.'

Not the least.'

So leaning from his end of the table
towards hers, looking at her as she always
felt, so entirely his infirmity was lost sight
of in the expressive mobility of the other
features, he gave her the essence of much
reading in few minutes, and, after that,

no matter what the subject started, Sydney
had the clue to investing it with brightness.
At every stage she needed explanation.
This he had always ready, from
books, from memory, or by-and-by, as he
grew sure her interest was not feigned,
from close-writ manuscripts of his own,
and life began to lose, for him, its dreariness.


Mightily pleased at her discrimination in
securing this well-adapted ' person,' Miss
Hurst noted a change in her brother, complacently
appropriating it as a personal
compliment, while time and distance, though
no whit diminishing Sydney's fond regard
for all she had held dear at St. Clairs, yet
now joined arms with her new occupation,
stilled the sickening whirl she had gone
through, and left her healthily tired maybe,
bub little disposed to brood over Mr.
Villiers's defection, as over her step-sister's

chances of becoming a countess presumptive.


About which it is our duty to return to
The Dale, and see what goes on.

CHAPTER VIII.

MES. ALWYN GOES TO OAKLETGH PLACE.

It was a great misfortune, or she felt it
so, which amounts to the same thing, that
Mrs. Alwyn's conscience, worn fine under
roughish usage, still asserted its existence
sufficiently to keep her extremely irritable
for some time after her younger daughter's
departure. Fifty times a day she assured
herself she had acted with no more than
necessary firmness ; with common justice ;
that no right-minded person could blame
her ; that she had not the slightest call to
blame herself; and yet these flattering

unctions all combined failed to set her at
rest.

With the common perversity of humanity,
which values what is lost or flung
away, Mrs. Alwyn now acknowledged that
the child of her second marriage had some
rare endowments of brain and soul, and
the notion that she had so worked them as
to get no social kudos thereout, but had
let them go into paltry-paid servitude, was
wormwood to her. Further, by one of
those uncontrollable side eddies of emotion
to which mankind, the weaker sex in particular,
are liable, a late-born appreciation
of that slighted nature, always so grateful
for any crumbs of love, dawned late upon
the mother, aggravating, if not regret for
her own action towards Sydney, a lively
sentiment of impartial captiousness towards
everyone else about her. For
one-and-twenty years she had had that

youngest-bora to carp at, or be kind
to, as the whim took her. Now she
missed her, hugged her conceit too closely
to confess it, and took umbrage at all
around whose questions were constantly
reminding her of the girl's absence, and of
the fresh entanglement she had drawn
upon herself by promoting it. Suffering
under this condition, described by her
servants as l been' so nobody couldn't please
her with nothing,' the malaise of Mrs. Alwyn
pervaded every department of the household,
and, as may be supposed, set ever-widening
circles of gossip astir.

It was on one of June's last days, when
Hills appeared at the glass door of the
morning-room, asking, with a touch of his
cap, if his mistress or Miss Villiers would
tell him what colour Miss Sydney wished
they stocks grafted. He'd promises of
General Jacks and Madame Honores, but

was not sure whether Miss wanted light
or dark roses.'

1 Either will do, either will do !' Mrs.
Alwyn answered from her writing-table ;
one just as well as the other.'

But Hills was not going to be choked
off in that summary fashion. Miss Sydney
was the only one who interested herself
in his flowers, and he determined to
pay her the compliment of consulting her
taste.

i I know Miss leans one way or other,' he
persisted, ' and I don't want to disoblige
her no ways. So shall I wait for her views,
ma'am, till she come back ?'

Oh, wait and welcome !' With lips
drawn into angry puckers, Mrs Alwyn
cast back the curt answer.

1 "Merry well, ma'am. But as the sap's
rising free, I hope Miss Sydney won't belong.'


A question, this; but Mrs, Alwyn was
too much immersed in correspondence to
reply. So Hills put the inquiry to Miss
Villiers more pointedly.

Come a spell of dry, Miss, we might
lose the turn of the season. Could you
say if Miss Sydney '11 be back in a fortnight
or so ?'

No,' said Leonora, from her rocking-chair,
tone and manner blandly expressionless
; f I really couldn't, Hills.' And the
man went off sulkily, to take counsel of
Phillips on the pantry steps .

I've bin skin' 'em in there,' with a jerk
towards the ladies' room, ' when they look
for Miss Sydney, and neither on 'em '11
tell me. They hevn't took an' quarrelled
with her, lev they ?'

Goodness know's what they're up to,'
returned Phillips. f Missus is as close asa
nut, and, of course, Miss Leonora don't

say a word to such as we. But my
advice is, Hills, bud your roses as fast as
you please. A young lady that takes all
her winter clothes away with her in
June ain't coming back in no fortnight.
Mark me !'

1 Then ain't she a-comin'' at all ?' cried
honest Dan Hills, discomfited.

You leave me to find out, and when I
know I'll tell you.'

So Phillips took her turn at investigating
matters, and inquired most respectfully
next day of her mistress when
Miss Sydney's room was to be set in
order for her. She didn't wish to be
behind with it, and it would take her a
whole forenoon.

'Do it when I tell you,' said Mrs.
Alwyn, shortly, with an angry gleam at
the back of her eye. And Phillips answered,


Oh, very well, 'm,' with such extraordinary
meekness that her mistress scented
suspicion in the obedient syllable. Her
servants were conniving at unearthing her
secrets. She would give them something
else to do !

c On the whole, though,' she said, with
a good assumption of second consideration,
' I think the room had better be
thoroughly turned out. Help Walters
with it tomorrow and the next day. Then
it will be ready for Miss Sydney, if she
returns next week.'

And for anyone else if she doesn't f
commented Phillips, acutely, on this
order. And she added, borrowing the
phraseology of a gamekeeper parent,
that no one was quicker at a double
than her mistress, but she, Phillips, was
not to be took in by no doubles, and it

was her belief that Miss Sydney was gone
for good.

This disquieting opinion soon spread
in St. Clairs, Reaching Patty Peggs, of
whom, as of all her pupils and pensioners,
Sydney had dared take no leave, it reduced
her to a state of abject sorrow, and
furnished her with courage to go bobbing,
like a cork afloat, to Mrs. Alwyn the next
Sunday, with f Please, mum, ain't Miss
Sydney a-comin'' to learn us our singing'
no more? Mother an me du want to
know bad.' And old Mrs. Hills lay in
wait at the door, like an anxious spider, to
catch the lady from The Dale with the
same question ; and even Mrs. Dacie, disturbed
by some echo of this remarkable
report, donned her black silk and the jet-trimmed
mantle of five summers, and went
over to Sydney's old home, with the

VOL. II. p

valiant determination to come at the truth
one way or other.

But the doctors good wife was easily
disposed of.

'To an old friend like yourself, Mrs.
Dacie,' said Mrs. Alwyn, meeting inquiry
with a melancholy that was quite overawing,
' I don't mind confessing that Sydney
has disappointed me  oh, sadly, me and
others, me grievously. She is best away
till  till it has blown over. Excuse my
saying more. It is too painful. And are
you really stronger, Mrs. Dacie ? And how
is the kind doctor?' Et cetera, et cetera.

Mary's simple-minded mother went away,
after a most affable half-hour, convinced
that her favourite's banishment was only
the outcome of a difference on matrimonial
plans, and volunteered the opinion
cheerfully that, ' though she couldn't tell
Mrs. Alwyn as much, her own notion

always had been that Sydney was far too
good for die-away Mr. Villiers. Mr. Drayton,
now, was far more worthy her. How
nice it would be if he came over again, and
they two made a match of it, wouldn't it ?'

This call, however, left Mrs. Ahvyn
deeply disturbed. One mysterious sentence
had been uttered, ' Neither of your
young ladies to be getting married, after
all we'd expected. Dear, dear !' And
these ominous words strengthened a
gruesome dread which had stolen lately
into her mind. Leonora coming in as the
visitor from the Gate House left found
her mother perturbed past reasonable explanation.


4 This state of things distracts me !'
the elder lady cried. * I can't keep up the
farce of that unfortunate child Sydney being
out on a visit for ever. And I will not be
compelled to publish the truth. I keep

v2

staving matters off till something  happens.
Something gets settled. For you,
I mean. My poor Leonora.'

Ah,' said Leonora, with plaintive dissatisfaction,
l but nothing does happen or
get settled, mamma.'

'But it may, my dear. Oh, it must !'

6 It's exactly three weeks and three days
since Mr. Duvesne last called, mamma.'

Mrs. Alwyn stayed her agitated carpet
promenade, sank on a chair, and for a
couple of minutes sat as if focussed for a
model of middle-aged perplexity. Her
nerves were so unstrung, her judgment
in such confusion, her patience so exhausted,
her calm so ruffled, that a decisive step
of some sort she must take, whether right
or wrong.

As it happened she took the wrong.

1 Ring the bell, Leonora,' she exclaimed,
getting up, flushed with rising determination,

' and order the pony-carriage. Tell
Phillips she must come and help me to
dress. For '  kissing her daughter  ' I
am going to Oakleigh Place.'

Some thirty minutes the lady spent upstairs,
devoting ability and discrimination
to a more than ordinarily careful toilette.
Then she descended, her still handsome
countenance gone into visiting array of
suave composure ; her costume of plain,
rich, steel satin, softest ostrich tips of the
same hue about her head-gear ; her slightly
superabundant figure toned down by a
costly Spanish mantilla, that fell about
her in the peculiarly-graceful folds attained
by no other fabric in the world. With
perfect gloves, a card-case of oxidized
silver, her gold eyeglass unobtrusively
peeping forth from her bodice, no ornament
save a heavy necklace of superb onyx
beads, Mrs. Alwyn might have passed for

the peeress going to patronise the plebeian.
Her mirror said as much, and furnished
her with self-possession for the expedition.
One glauce she cast at Hills  the corduroys
gardener completely lost in the
bright-buttoned, well-liveried groom  at
the well-hung little carriage that betrayed
none of the slovenliness of country equipages
 at the glossy, well-kept pony, and
the neatly-monogrammed harness. These
passing muster irreproachably, she took
her seat, shook out her silken summer
rug, unfurled her sunshade, with hope
beating high, gave the order, ' To Oakleigh
Place,' and off to Oakleigh Place they
started.

Now, at that very hour, Lady Coming
was studying a letter received the
same morning from Lady Avena Massey,
It was not the countess's regulation afternoon
i At home,' so, in the comfortable

abandon of a very well-worn morning
costume, her ladyship, after a forenoon's
audit with her housekeeper, was just reposing
on her own small drawing-room sofa ?
her writing-table beside her, her daughters
Margaret and Gertrude posed attentively
as she read aloud scraps of their sister's
missive.

f " Christening day so fine. Baby behaved
like a little angel. The little girls" (< Bless
them !') " so proud of their new brother ! w
Ah, that I read at breakfast. But I skipped
a piece somewhere because of your
papa. You know he's disposed to limit
our visiting circle in a way I tell him can't
be done in the country. But he nearly
rebelled at our omnium gathered last
summer, and would joke me for ever if he
found I had taken people up whom now I
wanted to drop. So I stopped short at
this bit about Mrs. Alwyn. Here it is.

Listen, my dears. u One singular thing
happened on the busy christening day.
When I went up from dinner, of course I
had to go for a peep at my boy. As a
great treat I gave my maid Lewis leave to
go to the nursery and assist in putting him
into his bassinette. Imagine my vexation
when I saw his beautiful robe, which your
neighbour, Mrs. Alwyn, sent him, hanging
scorching in front of the fire in the night
nursery ! The lace was absolutely ruined.
It was Lewis's fault, it appears, and when
I reproved her for her dreadful carelessness,
she broke forth crying violently, and
sobbed out that the lace was horrible unlucky
stuff all through, and she wished
such ill-gotten gains might not bring the
dear baby ill-luck ! Of course I insisted
on this being explained, and then she told
me that her father had lost all his savings
through this Mrs. Alwyn's husband, and

that, when she had been at St. Clairs with
me and seen the style of living at The
Dale, she wrote in her ill mother's name,
begging a trifle for the old couple, and got
an angry letter back and the noble sum of
two-and-sixpence !" '

The cold-blooded creature !' cried Lady
Margaret. ' Mamma, I never liked that
woman ! But is Avena sure it's true ?'

1 Well, hark. " 1 quieted Lewis, and
when I went down I made an opportunity
of asking old Lady "Wynne about these
Alwyns. It seems that years ago they
lived near each other in Worcestershire,
and Mrs. Alwyn, according to Lady
Wynne, was a handsome, fashionable,
pushing sort of person, who forced her
way into society, where she was not so
welcome as her husband would have been
if he had cared to enter it. He was a
lawyer, and his clients all respected him

immensely. He was rich too, but after he
married his wife gave him no opportunity
of saving. And when he failed through
some mining catastrophe, Mrs. Alwyn
gathered all the personal and household
valuables together that she could, and decamped
with them and refused to spare
one penny of her handsome settlements, to
save her husband's unlucky creditors from
any misery whatever !" '

Horrible woman ! ; choruses the countess's
daughters.

1 " The Wynne and everyone in Stillcote
considered her conduct most grasping and
cruel, and I can assure you, dearest mamma,
the notion of being under an obligation
to such a person is most painful tome.
I felt relieved that the robe was
destroyed. I shall let Lewis sell that
piece of Mechlin she gave me and pass
the price on to her poor father. I need

not say to you, pray don't let the
girls get intimate at The Dale ! And in

future, Edward " Oh, that's all, I

see.'

8 And quite enough too, mamma !'

Yes, it's annoying, is it not ? But it's
quite impossible to enter a new neighbourhood
without making a blunder or
two. We must get over this as civilly as
possible, but let Mrs. Alwyn distinctly
see we intend no visiting in future. I'm
glad she was occupied when Edward last
went. With his thoughtless good-temper
he might have been led into making all
sorts of engagements. Which owes a calk
my dears, Mrs. Alwyn or myself?'

You do, mamma. She came a day or
two after lunching here.'

1 Obtrusive, very. However, we go to
Scotland in August. Till then we'll take
care to see nothing of her '

The door opened, and a footman appeared.
c Mrs. Alwyn, my lady.'

Not at ' began the countess. But

too late. The soft sweep of the visitor's
skirt was on the steps. Mesdames Gertrude
and Margaret, exchanging smiles,
vanished into an adjacent conservatory.
Mrs. Alwyn sailed gracefully into the
room, and Lady Comyngham, looking anything
but pleased, lurched inelegantly
from her sofa to receive this undesired
guest.

With silent satisfaction Mrs. Alwyn
perceived her hostess at a disadvantage.
Gauging other people's feeling by her
own, she attributed to her deshabille the
marked expression of annoyance that
swept over the countess's features, and in
her most propitiatory tones proceeded to
offer apologies, which she half-considered
her own due. To be found not Men

arranged after luncheon, struck Mrs. Al-wen
almost as a sin !

I How exceedingly kind of you, dear
Lady Comyngham, to admit me on one of
your off days. I felt sure you would
(' "Why ?' the countess's suddenly stiffened
figure seemed to ask.) ' Or I should rather
say, I hoped you would. I so much wished,
wanted to see you.'

Here a slight pause. Then Lady
Comyngham, smoothing her crumpled
frills, replied, smilingly, that 'Mrs.
Alwyn was very  kind.'

I I had been thinking of leaving St.
Clairs for a few weeks. The Dale is in
such a hollow. We feel it relaxing. My
daughter really requires a more bracing air,
but

Ah interrupted the countess, with real
interest, 'one daughter is gone out, I hear
(Mrs. Alwyn flinched. What was coming?)

But not, I think, as you expected when
you last spoke of her. Not as a bride ?'

'No  oh, dear no. She is merely away'
  (boldly) ' on a long visit.'

1 Not a ruptured engagement, then, I
hope,' returned the countess, civilly.
(Tor,' as she said to her daughter afterwards,
'that younger girl was unmistakably
a gentlewoman. I am not ashamed to
admit I always liked her') ' I should be
sorry to hear of any disappointment to
Miss Alwyn. She seemed so radiant when
we last met.'

And might have remained so, had she
taken my advice,' replied Mrs. Alwyn,
vastly relieved to find no idea of the truth
concerning Sydney existed at Oakleigh ;
but,' going on more confidently, ' my
younger child is not like my elder, and
she must abide by her own independence.
Some day, dear Lady Comyngham  but I

couldn't bring myself to it now  I do so
wish to tell you part at least of my last
month's vexations.' (The countess just
bowed, without any appearance of being
charmed at the prospect). * To-day it is
pleasant to dwell only on my Leonora's
trust in her mother. She, dear girl, leaves
all things, her closest hopes, even, in her
mother's hands.'

'Very becoming of Miss Villiers,' said
the countess, drily.

And to be very, very frank, it is this
confidence my child puts in me which brings
me here now.'

1 Indeed !'

The ejaculation was cold. Mrs. Alwyn
felt the ground terribly delicate ; the
sympathetic atmosphere not exhilarating.
She endeavoured to impart some warmth
into the situation by a touch of sentiment,
and with her diaphanous square of lawn at

her eyes, murmured, ' Mothers will do
anything for their children, dear Lady
Comyngham.'

Oh, of course, they will,' answered her
ladyship, wondering why in the name of
fortune such a truism was launched at her
just now.

And  I was most unfortunately prevented
seeing Mr. Duvesne on the two
last occasions when he called at The Dale.'
(Her hearer's eyes suddenly shot forth
apprehension. Then contracted with a
dangerous sparkle.) l So when I saw my
dear girl anxious, distraite, not herself,
reluctant to leave St. Clairs, though her
health is suffering, I took my resolve for
her sake. I said to myself, u Don't let false
delicacy stop you ! Elders may set everything
right easily." So I came straight to
you.'

Oh ! really !' said Lady Oomyngham,

upright and about as yielding as a post.
'And pray, Mrs. Alwyn, what is it you
wish us elders to set right ?'

Unpromising this, but Mrs. Alwyn
rallied her forces round Mr. Duvesne's
many remembered attentions, and pushed
undaunted on.

'Your son has been our very frequent
guest, Lady Comyngham, as, no doubt, you
are aware

'Your guest, I believe, Mrs. Alwyn,
some five or six times during the past year .
I have begged him often not to intrude.
He has told me you were so hospitable, he
found it difficult to decline your frequent
invitations.'

We were most delighted to see him,
dear Lady Comyngham.' (' Why so often
"dear"' thought the countess, getting
restless.) ' Only too delighted. Had you
been with him you would  you must, I

VOL. II. Q

believe, have put the same construction on
his visits we did.'

4 The construction I should have put,'
said the countess, in a very business-like
manner, for she saw now what impended,
and resolved to nip it in the bud, if
practicable, e would have been that you
made much of my son, and, consequently,
he relished your entertainment. Edward
always liked ladies' society. It's a privilege
of young clergy to enjoy that sort of thing.
But I am very sorry he imposed himself on
you so much.'

1 Sorry ! Oh, we need not be that, if all
ends well !' said Mrs. Alwyn, her handkerchief
at play again 1 1 assure you we felt
him, we treated him as one of ourselves.'
(The countess had some ado to repress an
indignant interjection.) ' He consulted us
continually, pointedly, on all connected
with his new house. He took my dearest

Leonora's opinion on every shade, on every
arrangement. What could I think of that
but that he desired to  to '

Get his rectory as pretty as possible
for his wife ?' (The countess had made up
her mind the sooner further confession
stopped the better.) ' And you were quite
right, Mrs. Alwyn. That is my son's
aim. He gave you, 1 fancy, since you
showed such politeness to him, a good
many hints on the subject. More than
were quite wise. For only within the last
month has he been at liberty to speak
out

That,' interposed Mrs. Alwyn, 6 is why
I came.'

1  And say that for years he has been
engaged to a daughter of General Permit.'
(Poor Mrs. Alwyn's onyx beads absolutely
jingled with her start.) ' They are just
returning from India, and my son is at

Q2

Southampton, waiting to meet Miss Permit,
whom he is to marry next month.
The general is peculiar, and begged no
engagement should be made public till
close on their return. Of course, we had
to respect his wishes. Dear me, how warm
the room is,' walking off without a glance
at her listener, to fling a window open.
4 There, that makes it better.'

Mrs. Alwyn wanted air. A chagrin,
intensely real, displaced her well-acted
smiles and sentimentalism. Mortification
nigh choked her. As for that ill-dressed
earl's wife so loftily ignoring her semi-confession
 fool that she had been to make
it !  if Fate ever gave her the chance of
repaying that slight, should not the debt
be wiped out with compound interest !
There was pitched battle within her bosom
to fetch a syllable of decent courtesy to
her twitching lips. But after brief silence

she contrived to say, with emphasis as
little bitter as might be, for acquaintance
with the nobility must not be lightly
resigned, ' I regret that Mr. Edward
Duvesne gave us no chance of  congratulating
him earlier. Of course, we
do so now.'

1 Much obliged,' said the countess,
frostily.

1 And beyond this I say no more. It is
useless to dwell on the  unfortunate 
concealment he adopted.'

Kindly remember,' said the countess,
nettled, ' his reticence was not his own
choice. We Comynghams are not secretive,
whatever our faults. This concealment
was purely unavoidable.'

Mrs. Alwyn felt as though, if denied
retort, she must die of spleen. Rashly she
answered,

Unavoidable ! Possibly. Some people

might  outsiders only, of course  I don't
say I do, consider it dishonourable.'

It is dangerous to attack a woman's
son. Lady Comyngham swiftly brought
an unexpected weapon to the front.
Drawing her inches to their fullest height,,
and looking from top to toe the countess,
spite of her tumbled muslin gown,

Mrs. Alwyn,' she said, ' according to
what I hear, through my friend Lady
Wynne, in Worcestershire, you can scarcely
claim to be an acceptable critic on what
is or what is not honourable. Allow me '
her fingers on the bell  t to wish you
good-day.'

Cowed out of ready speech for once,
John Alwyn's clever widow was in another
minute gone from Oakleigh Place, never
to return.

1 Give me a fan !' cried Lady Coming
to her re-appearing daughters.

Open all the windows. That woman has
poisoned the place with Frangipanni. I
hate Frangipanni. I'm afraid I hate her.
By her own showing, girls, she barefacedly
lured Edward to her house, and had the
atrocious effrontery to imagine she had
secured him for her daughter Leonora ! I
told Edward he was foolish to praise that
Miss Villiers's complexion, even before
me. He said it was like Mary's, so he
couldn't help the compliment. This is
what comes of it. Upon my word your
father is right. We must draw the line
closer, my dears. At any rate, from this
day forth, that woman from The Dale goes
off our list.'

The countess need not have troubled to
make this amendment. The ' woman from
The Dale ' speedily betook herself beyond
the range of the most noble Comyngham
circle.

From her disastrous drive Mrs. Alwyn
went home so exasperated with this fresh
stroke of ungracious fortune that, had
she been a South-sea Islander badgering
her blessings out of a wooden idol, the
probability is, in her last access of downright
rage, she would have had that idol
off its pedestal, and thrashed it soundly
for its baneful contrariness. Her theological
springing, however, denying her
that consolation, she took the best circumstances
permitted. Leonora, her
vanity, luckily nothing deeper, smarting
most poignantly, was only too ready to quit
the scene of her unsuccessful youth.
Preparations for lengthened absence were
hastily made. A stack of cards, pour
prendre cone, went forth by post, and almost
as soon as these reached their
destination, the senders were gone from
the dwelling they had graced so many years.

Later, Mr. Russell and railway-vans put
in an appearance. The Dale was dismantled.
From the earl's agent it leaked
out the property was in process of purchase
for the Comynghams, negotiations
being carried on through the late owner's
brother. Having long before risen on the
village, from no one knew where, they disappeared
none could tell whither, but
henceforth St. Clairs knew nothing more of
handsome Mrs. Alwyn and her handsome
daughter, Miss Villiers.

CHAPTER IX.

ME. HURST MAKES AN AWKWARD DISCOVERY.

At the end of one month Miss Hurst conceived
it her duty to inquire, with much
polite circumlocution, whether Miss Grey
found her residence at Wynstone sufficiently
satisfactory to hold out hope of its being
prolonged.

c Plainly,' said Sydney, smiling, though
she felt none so jubilant, ' do I like my
place ? Yes, Miss Hurst. I have no wish
to leave it, if I suit it and suit  my
mistress

She faltered over that bit of bravado.

Now and then came a day when it was
difficult to keep an even spirit, a happy
bearing. Such a wrench of old ties as
Sydney, valiant in her recognised duty, had
achieved, is not allowed by Madame Nature
to sink into the great past to the beat of
an ever-placid pulse, or under the benison
of constant self-approval. There were
times when the girl, bred and born to the
adjuncts of at least moderate wealth, felt
hampered and prisoned in the small house
at Capel Moor, with its prim spinster furnishing
and garniture, when the sense of
having no other claimable shelter appalled
her. A panic of this sort was on her to-day,
which had brought her tidings that her
mother and Leonora were leaving England
for months, and her isolation seemed complete
: when in her hand she held the few
coins that represented thirty days' hire,
and felt for the instant staggered at the

unromantic fact that she was in humbly-paid
service.

But she was sorry for her rash utterance
when she saw Miss Hurst took it as a
species of complaint.

1 Mistress !' the lady repeated, reproachfully.
' Now, Miss Grey, is it quite fair to
use a word that seems to insinuate I have
given myself airs ? When I've been so careful
to speak of you as a friend who opportunely
found it convenient to share our
borne ; and I am sure I have always felt
towards you and treated you as such. I
wouldn't even let Mrs. Preece, when she
came to see me the other day, call you my
companion, for I said no, " lady's companion
" always reminds me of those nasty
little work-cases, with scissors too small to
get your thumb in, and thimble a mile too
large, and nothing that fits anything, and
that's the very reverse of Miss Grey. But

if, after all, it's as a mistress you regard
me, why, I should be sorry to detain you
in a situation which, as I have my wits
about me, of course I can see is in many
ways far beneath you.'

Sydney grew ashamed and repentant as
this speech proceeded.

1 Dear Miss Hurst,' she said, contritely,
when the lady ended with a little toss of
affront, ' please forgive me. I sounded ungrateful,
but I did not mean to be so. It's
only that I can't forget everything all at
once. But I am thankful to be here, and
I am not likely to want to go till you send
me away.'

1 Which won't be in a hurry then,' said
Miss Hurst, as easily mollified as moved,
and as for being down sometimes, why, I
suspect everyone is that. I know I am.
I've things to grieve over, oh dear ! they
won't bear looking back on. Perhaps you

have the same. Very likely, as you are
younger, things seem harder, though, indeed,
Miss Grey, neither the teens nor the
twenties have a monopoly of very tender
sorrows. A  h !'

A deep sigh courted invitation to confidential
disclosures, but Sydney, conscious
that her own story must remain sealed,
kept silence, with a blush so deep that Miss
Hurst drew therefrom her own conclusions,
and with self-denial, most laudable
considering she was bubbling over with
curiosity, carried the conversation to other
channels.

1 If it is any pleasure to you to hear it,
1 will say I consider our arrangement
quite a piece of luck. If you had seen
my brother before you came, which is impossible,
but you know what I mean, you
would understand how different he is now.
And in pastry, too, the change is astonishing.

Time after time Eebecca used to
send up crust that really might have been
tossed over the roof with less injury to
itself than the tiles. Now, you can testify,
Miss Grey, our dinners are not disgraced
by such cookery. And why ? Ah, h  a !
Eebecca knows better than to let her fire
out of a morning when I'm near ! And
Gilbert's spirits are so improved too.
Why, I heard him laughing yesterday.
What was it at, Miss Grey?'

Only a line from Horace in the paper I
was reading.'

And you could pronounce it properly !'

I tried.'

I envy you. What a muddle I used to
make of those foreign bits. First I hopped
them, hoping he wouldn't miss them,
but he always did. Then I spelt them
out, but that didn't answer. Then in my
own way I used to labour to amuse him

I used to get bits from Punch, and any
comic anecdote, and I used to say, " Here's
something so droll for you to hear, Gilbert
;" and I would tell him the funniest
jokes, ever so many at a time, and yet he
hardly ever laughed. But I said to him
last night, " Gilbert, Miss Grey is getting
quite valuable. Worth much more than
the small salary I can afford her. But
rather than lose her now I would stint
myself anyhow, or do work for a poor
gentlewoman's fancy repository. So if
ever you require a little rise, Miss Grey,
tell me, and I'll manage it.'

But Miss Grey had no intention of asking
a rise. The light addition she now
carried off to her store swelled the grand
total to thirty-sis pounds, ten ; and that
she calculated would afford Christmas-boxes
for a long while to St. Clairs. The
money outlay of her present life was next

to nil. The fateful loan, advanced by her
mother, was repaid, for Jacob had sent
her, in six notes, the residue of her sis
thousand. Stow she, who had always
longed to be in some ways lavish, must
only be so in coin less mutable than gold,
must spend youth and energy in brightening
this out-of-the-way home the waves
of her self-will had cast her into, and for
lack of nearer, dearer interests, must beat
the bounds of this new, narrow dominion,
till, perhaps, she grew into an old maid
like Miss Jean Hurst. The brilliant summertime
she had sketched out had come
to this. Well, with burning cheeks, she
thought, rather than have been wed and
then waked up to find herself and her
existence bartered for metal that rang
false, her present lot was one she would
have chosen open-eyed, a lot by no means
despicable, from its lowliest function

VOL. II. R

of improving piecrust to its worthier of
lifting some gloom off Gilbert Hurst's
career.

In this last direction her powers waxed
stronger week by week. As summer
waned, matronly seemed to break on Gilbert
Hurst with the first sound of Sydney's
voice. Her presence seemed to transform
bis life. Did he ask himself ' how ?'
Well, by countless womanly intuitions :
by the contact of a most animated intelligence.
If by aught else, the time to
formulate other influence had not quite
come. It was yet hidden, unsuspected,
but  growing.

Early September took Sydney for her
first exeat from Wynstone. When the
dispersing of her money was accomplished,
Jacob Cheene urged that they might meet
and the receipts for her father's debts be
delivered to her. The asked-for hours

were given instantly, though Miss Hurst
was a trifle disappointed .that the object
and destination of her journey were not
explained.

Quite early, when the sun was showing
a copper-coloured disc behind an autumn
haze, Sydney set out to the little nile-off:
railway station. Footsteps had already
brushed the dew-spangled cobwebs from
the path by the poplars. The white gate
stood open. Outside, sentry-like, was Mr.
Hurst. He heard the first fall of her foot,
and, his face lighting up with that full expressiveness
that made his deprivation
seem incredible, asked, might he make his
morning walk beside her.

Gladly,' she answered, ' if,' instinctively
choosing just the words that would
not wound, ( if he knew that road as
marvellously as he did others about
Wynstone.'

ri

Thank you,' he said, very contentedly
measuring his steps by hers, ' but my
memory is only canine. I was our cousin
Priscilla Hammond's godson, and in my
young time came holiday-making to Capel
Moor, till I learnt every nook about the
place. I was to have been my godmother's
heir, but she changed her mind on that
point.'

6 Oh, but that was a pity. What made
her do so ?' Sydney exclaimed, with more
impulse than discretion.

A common-sense view of the situation.
For in those days, Miss Grey, I had a
notion that I could carve out what fortune
I liked. Our worthy old cousin took meat
my own estimate, and left her little
property to the one she thought would
want it most.'

Natural enough, this, yet Sydney
could not help feeling that, as events had

disposed themselves, it was something like
leaving a managing magpie in charge of a
disabled eagle ! Then she chid herself for
this ungracious metaphor, and made
amends for the mental injustice.

1 Perhaps it does not signify, Mr. Hurst,
which had the money. It would be shared
anyhow. Your sister delights, above all
things, in using it for you.'

4 Poor Jean !' he answered, with a shake
of the head, and a smile that had sadness
in it. ' Her small estate is eaten up by
one pensioner. When I was young I was
hot-headed and arrogant, I fancy. I've
fallen on lines that take that sort of nonsense
out of a man, Miss Grey. Poor
Jean !'

That reiteration was the nearest, the
only approach to complaint Mr. Hurst
ever made over his own and his sister's
relative positions. But Sydney, looking

up shyly, for she never lost the sense that
he was meeting her gaze, saw how deep
were the lines of endurance about the firm
mouth. How the grave serenity of the
whole face betokened mastery of the strong
passion and will rather than the placidity
of inborn composure, and the pity that
welled up within her was less for * poor
Jean ' than for Jean's brother.

Mind,' he said, as they reached the
shallow valley through which the coming
train was sounding like distant wind,
there are the roots of an elm-tree across
the footpath a little way on. Don't forget
them if it is dusk when you return home.'

Thank you ; but it will not be dusk. I
shall be home at six.'

Good news, that. We shall be wanting
you. Good-bye till then.'

He lifted his hat. His words were grateful
to her. At The Dale her adieux were

differently phrased. She could have shaken
hands for friendly, short farewell, but one
of Miss Hurst's super-refined rules restrained
her. ' I tell my brother it makes
him look ridiculous to stand, perhaps with
his hand extended, and the person who is
going, possibly, never noticing it. So I
advise him only to bow. I try to spare his
feelings in all these little ways, you know.'
So, with ' Good-bye,' Sydney let him turn
back, standing some seconds to watch with
what perfect ease and certainty his tall
form took the well-known homeward way.
"Wynstone regained (that walk seemed
longer than the outward one), Mr. Hurst
heard footsteps pattering near the door.

1 Who is it ?' he asked, stooping, for the
steps were of a pigmy, and a juvenile treble
responded,

c Please, sir, me.'

And what may " me " be wanting ?'

He was always gentle with children.
Not one in Capel Moor feared the blind
gentleman.

Oh, if you please, sir, it's some foxes
gloves mother have sent the lady.'

< What lady ? Miss Hurst ?'

No, sir, the young lady, if you please,
as come by yesterday and give mother
sixpence 'cause she 've sprained her wrist.'

And you don't know her name ?'

No, sir. But if you please, she live here
and she's the pretty lady.'

He took the flowers carefully indoors,
and summoned Rebecca to put them in
Miss Grey's room.

Miss Hurst, coming downstairs, met the
flowers en route, and learned part of their
story from her brother. The little
messenger's adjectives, however, escaped
repeating.

It would be Ruth Davis, I expect. Miss

Grey likes the road past their cottage, and
she's a person that, I've no doubt ? poor
people would take to

An opinion on which penniless Mr.
Hurst entertained no doubt whatever.

At Stillcote-Upton Sydney spent a day,
wherein sweets and bitters were strangely
mingled. Arrived at Mr. Cheene's dwelling,
Nancy, in stiff lilac print, her carrots
locks skewered away under a white muslin
helmet, ushered her through what had been
Miss Ambler's shop, but was now promoted
to the dignity of a private sitting-room, upstairs
slippery and splendid with twenty-four
inch American cloth, to the lodger's
apartment, which, rehabilitated by drugget
and clean curtains, polished windows, and
some pounds of fresh paint, looked quite
an elegant apartment, full five shillings
a week more eatable than three months
before.

Suggestions of replenished purses filled
the air. Jacob, in his Sunday suit, was
waiting for her. The odour of excellent
coffee, prepared by Miss Ambler's hands
for Mr. Cheene's visitor, blended with the
scent of mignonette in a gorgeous market
nosegay, and a scheme to make this day
as festively as possible unlike her last one
there, was effectively carried out, with only
a few minutes' presentable collapses.

I have worked you too hard, Jacob
Sydney said, anxiously, when Nancy,
having stumped off with the breakfast, she
fetched her father's office stool forth, and
seated herself at the old clerk's feet ; l you
are thinner and paler. You are tired outwith
all our talking.'

Tired out with pleasure, then, Miss
Sydney ; and they say that never kills.'

It had not need. Our one friend. My
father's and mine.'

'No fear. If it could it would have done
it these last few weeks.'

1 Were the people glad, then ?'

4 " Glad " isn't word enough, Miss Sydney.
They were nearly dazed with delight, some
of them.'

Then he told her, taking his time over
it, for, as he said, he got neither younger
nor stronger nowadays, how the few score
pounds here, the few hundreds there, had
come like a gift on those who so long had
thought their savings lost. How some
could not believe their luck till hard cash
proved their glad surprise no dream.
How they had made him ambassador of
thanks unnumbered to the nameless
individual who had set them thus rejoicing.
How one and all  Sydney exulted over
this  had said, ' wasn't it the very thing
poor Mr. Alwyn would have done if money
had come to him before he died, for they

knew he wasn't the man to injure a soul
willingly.' And he showed her letters of
blundering orthography, but unmistakeable
gratitude, and graphically described his
poor, hard-pressed landlady's outburst of
joy. How she had positively refused her
share till assured none came out of his,
Jacob's, pocket (ras if I could have saved
it !') and how, when convinced her fortune
had come back in a golden lump, she had
insisted on embracing Mr. Cheene, and
laughed, and cried, and poured out such a
jumble of blessings on her anonymous
benefactor, mixed with such self-obloquy
at having overstepped the bounds of
justice in the matter of her lodger's
1 leavings,' as, confessed Jacob, surreptitiously
smoothing his shaggy eyebrows,
' made a thorough old simpleton of
me, Miss Sydney, though I hadn't felt so
happy for this fifteen years.'

And he told, too, of the bewildered joy,
and later substantial comfort, of poor John
Lewis. How the cottage he had been so
proud of would be free again at Michaelmas,
and he was to get back to it with his
old wife, who had never once lifted voice
against her former master, and how, with
Nurse's money and their own, poverty
would never hang about their door again.

Sydney's eyes overflowed at that : 

If only dear old Taffy could have had
her share ! You put what I told you for
her, Jacob !'

Yes,' he answered, 'it's there safely.
Her place among the graves won't be forgotten
now. But I felt as if I hardly
ought to let you do it, Miss Sydney.
You've left yourself the poorest of all.'

Poor !' She looked up, a light in her
beautiful eyes prosperity could never have
kindled : 

c Jacob, I never felt so rich ! But
remember, I still am in debt. There is
interest on interest. I wonder if ever I
shall be able to pay it

1 And I wonder said Mr. Cheene, ' if
ever you will begin to get anything for
yourself. Money seems to burn a hole in
your pocket, Miss Sydney

She laughed, though tears twinkled on
her long lashes.

It's very little money gets the chance
of burning holes now. And, if I were as
rich as Croesus, there are things, people,

I couldn't pay. You, for example

That's nothing, Miss Sydney. Only a
poor attempt to pay off what I owed your
father.'

Ah, you say that to ease me !'

'No,' turning from her intent watching,

I I say it to take what you might feel a
burden off your shoulders. For the sake

of that I'll tell you the truth, as no one
else on earth knows it. Yes, take hold of
me ; that helps me, just as your father
did when he'd come up and down High
Street with his arm through mine. Miss
Sydney, when I was not much more thana
lad, and your father was just head of
the office, I got into ill company. I'd
joined a glee club, as they called it ; but
our evenings that began with glees ended
with loo. And I lost at that, and 
and '

1 Oh, Jacob dear, don't tell me this.
It doesn't matter now !'

1 And the only way I could pay was by
borrowing from my master. There, that's
not the word. Miss Sydney, I  stole.
No one found me out but your father.
He bowed me to the very ground ; not
with anger, with forgiveness. He made a
man out of what might have been a miserable

felon. I was wretched and a coward,
and I should never have dared face the
world if it had not been for his brave
help. But he turned my first snare into
a safeguard. He made me work at true
music under his very own teaching. And
he never despised me, though he knew
my sin. After that, Miss Sydney, don't
you ever cumber your mind with the
thought of owing me anything. The
greatest trouble I have is the knowledge
that I've not a farthing to leave John
Alwyn's child.'

Who will never want it, dear old
Jacob,' pressing his arm to her. c You
give her a better heritage in her father's
praise!'

It was after a triumphant dinner, cooked
by Miss Ambler, recklessly regardless
of a sixpence or two extra in the way of
sauce or vegetable, served by Nancy in a

stuff gown and white cuffs, that Jacob
Cheene and his guest strolled through the
streets of Stillcote, and he showed her the
way out to Guyswick ; his old lodgings,
which he had quitted to share small
means and short commons with Miss Ambler
; ' Starts owned now by a wine merchant,
and the big church of St. Clements,
where

But there he broke off to ask of those
with whom she lived, their age, their
bearing to herself.

As far as she knew it, she gave him
the Hursts' history, and admitted that
they were kind enough to make her
sometimes wish she could drop the incognita
her mother had imposed upon her.
But, for a marvel, Jacob agreed with Mrs.
Alwyn.

4 If you are fairly happy, Miss Sydney,
let well alone. If ever you wanted to

VOL. II. S

leave them, you are not so far off now ;
you would come to me

That Sydney promised, seeing that it
pleased him to count himself her guardian ;
and, anyhow, another June she was to
ask a whole week's holiday, and they were
to pass it together. With which prospect
the station was once more reached,
and farewells said between these May
and December friends, whom the day
had drawn together by kindlier ties than
ever.

Capel Moor was reached as the last
gleams o sunlight kissed the crests of the
golden woods. Sydney hastened towards
Wynstone through the upward lane, whose
long-ago quarried sides were dressed now
with elm bush and brambles, fringed with
bracken and tall hart's-tongue ferns. At
the angle where lane joined road, and the
weather-beaten, lancet-windowed church

stood on the hill summit, a figure waited,
leaning on the low lichen-tinted wall.

I knew you would come,' said Mr.
Hurst, as she drew near. ' My sister
prophesied you would enjoy your freedom
till the last train. I was sure you would
not disappoint us.'

Sydney's sympathies had been too much
on the alert the whole day through not to
catch quickly now at the implied need.
It brought back old times, when her
father counted every moment of her absence.
There was sweetness in being
again wanted, yet, out of a full heart, she
had no words to acknowledge it. Mr.
Hurst marked her silence.

1 Will you come through the churchyard?
It is the nearest way home. You are
tired?'

Not very.'

Something in the still scene, the quiet

s2

tombs, the silent house of many generations'
prayers, unsteadied her voice. Mr.
Hurst turned to her suddenly : 

'Sorry to leave those whom you went
to see? Sorry to be in this dull spot
again?'

6 No, no ; indeed, no.'

c For that, thank you,' he said. ' You
are getting me into such ill habits,
Miss Grey : it seems like losing my sight
over again not to have you at Wynstone.'

From this strong, vigorous man, the
confession of dependence took Sydney's
pity so unawares she utterly forgot Miss
Hurst's deep device for sparing his feelings.
He was holding the gate open for
her. Infco his right hand she put her own,
warm, soft, unloved, and said very
gently, as if soothing some one sorely
maimed,

'I was selfish to go. But, now, I shall

not want to be away for months and
months. The more you can teach me todo
for you the better.'

Miss Hurst wondered volubly the evening
through why her brother preferred
wandering outside in the moonlight,
which, though it's lovely, as I say, he can't
enjoy,' to coming in and enjoying her
society and Sydney's. She had fancied he
would be pleased when Miss Grey got back.
But gentlemen were very odd. She supposed
he preferred the company of his own
thoughts.

They were thoughts Gilbert Hurst
longed, with all the throes of despair, to
be rid of. Thoughts of a tender throbbing
touch that still seemed lying in his
own broad grasp. A touch waking a joy
and an anguish that must needs run side
by side till death extinguished them.

CHAPTER X.

THE FRIENDS SHE LEFT BEHIND HER.

Mr. Drayton never came to St. Clairs
that summer to be received  kindly for his
own or anybody else's sake, and all that
happened in the village between hay-cutting
and harvest only added to the perplexity
which began and the depression
which increased with Sydney's departure.

Too loyal to the absent girl to attempt
searching out her secret by comparison of
notes anent her farewell to each, the rector
and Mary Dacie could only join voices in
regret that she was gone. That Mrs. Al-gwyn's
sudden adieux were connected with

the earlier ones of her daughter many
might suspect, but none knew certainly.
The Comynghams preserved a
prudent silence. People in general soon
tired of speculating on what might never
be confirmed. Sydney's mother and sister
passed out of mind with a speed that un-flattering
matched their bodily removal,
and it was but herself who was lamented
long by Patty Peggs, and others of her
kind and condition.

But even the poor folks ceased to pester
the doctor's daughter with questions about
her friend and theirs when they found she
knew as little as themselves, and Mary
named her now to few, since it was a pang
to confess ignorance of one whom she
missed more sorely every day. For that
ugly presence, ' genteel poverty was
asserting itself more obtrusively than ever
at the Gate House as the warm weeks

rolled by. Paying patients sidled off to
the active young Edinburgh M.D., who
diagnosed simple maladies in the mysterious
phraseology of science, drove a tall vehicle,
with a boy in buttons at his side, and
literally, as well as figuratively, soon left
his old-fashioned rival far behind in the
race to heal. Punch, the Dacier' old cob,
having expired through over-exertion in a
night gallop to a pauper invalid, and his
place, for want of funds, being left vacant
still, the old doctor limped about afoot
among the few who still required his
attendance. If wanted  rarely enough 
far afield, a neighbouring baker supplied
a steed on consideration of his wife being
physicked gratis. All the shifts the household
had endured cheerfully so many years
barely sufficed now to preserve a decent
professional front. And the cheerfulness
grew grievously difficult; Mrs. Dacie

fretted for her husband. He, a true old
Darby, worried for his Joan. Those few
years of rest that the animal part of
humanity so longs for ere it falls finally
asleep, seemed likely to be denied these
two, and Mary sorrowed silently for them
both. Ah, if Sydney had been there now,
with her bright fearless power of lifting
them out of their troubles, her happy
insistence, baseless though it might seem,
that there were better times coming, what
a ray of gladness she would have been
among their dark domestic clouds ! How
Mary could have solaced her own tormented
nerves on that lost companion's trustful
buoyancy, and, oh, what a rest it would
have been !

But that source of sympathy was inaccessible.
Even a letter was impracticable,
for Mrs. Alwyn, when forwarding
Sydney's last tender but sadly uncommunicative

little note to Miss Dacie from
Zurich, had by accident or design omitted
to enclose her own address, and thereby
cut off response for a time at least. So,
alone with her grinding daily anxieties,
Mary spent July and August unable to get
much of their sunniness into her own
system, since all their fair gifts seemed besmirched
with ever-present cares, a file of
unpaid bills tormented her week in, week
out, and the very roses on the house walls
seemed to shake their fragrant heads at
her, and say, reproachfully, ' Now, don't
presume to enjoy the sight of us, Miss
Marry ! If you must think of something
sweet, think of all those groceries you owe
for, and find a way to settle Mr. Tabor's
account, do 1'

Over the road to that desirable end she
puzzled, till two upright puckers established
themselves permanently between her brown

eyebrows, and not till nearly Michaelmas
did the faintest solution of the difficulty
present itself. Then it was only of the
stop-gap description, but, being better than
none, she stifled qualms over it, and adopted
the device which till now story-books
only had made her acquainted with.

It happened that one September afternoon
a stranger to Hemynford arrived
there by rail, and going through the
principal street drew out his watch by the
post-office, to see if his and local time
tallied. It was just five o'clock, a fact
proclaimed additionally by an outrush from
a building hard by of National School boys,
one of whom, with a joyful yelp of freedom,
backed on the traveller's elbow, jerked the
watch on to a valise in the opposite hand,
and smashed the crystal face to fragments.
Before the owner understood the accident,
its originator had bolted, so nothing remained

but to look up a shop where the
damage might be repaired. Some score of
yards off, gilt letters on a shop-door
blazoned forth that ' W. D. Samuels ' had
for fifty years traded at that spot as goldsmith,
optician, etc., and smaller type
made known that old gold or silver could
be there purchased or taken in exchange.
Here the stranger entered, and handed
his watch over the counter for treatment,
announcing that he would wait while
a new glass was put inc

That,' said Mr. Samuels, screwing his
trade badge into one sharp eye, and
examining the dial carefully, ' wouldn't
take me two minutes, sir ; but I'm sorry to
say the rim is injured. I can't put that
right under a day. You  see, sir ?'

The gentleman did see, with considerable
disgust. The injured chattel was an old
favourite. The notion of trusting it to an

unknown tradesman was unpalatable.
He hesitated, mentally objurgating the
little rascal who caused him the annoyance,
then made up his mind.

I'll have it attended to in town,' ho
said. * Just put it up in a box for me ; and
have you any silver concern  second-hand
will do  that will keep time the few days
I'm down here ?'

Mr. Samuels' amour propre, ruffled at
the first sentence, was smoothed at the
second. He had many of the articles requested
in stock. Might he trouble the
gentleman to step behind his desk. Here
were fifty hanging up, extraordinarily reasonable,
from which he could make choice.
So round the tall rail-topped desk went the
customer, and was there enduring Mr.
Samuel's alternate eulogium upon an
ancient specimen of the turnip tribe and a
superfine flowered-back Geneva, when

another individual entered the shop ; and,
with a muttered ' Excuse me, sir,' Mr.
Samuels returned to his counter.

The new comer was a lady this time,
and her business not to buy, but to sell.
To Mr. Samuels's credit, be it said, however,
this in no way lessened his civility.
On the contrary, he was politeness itself ;
but he spread courtesy as soft as down
over a bargain as hard as adamant. No
one could be sorrier than he that levers
of this class had gone out of use, and
reduced the watch, nervously submitted
him, to just the worth of the gold in
its case. And no doubt it did seem
strange to anyone not in the trade, that
chains should drop to a quarter their
first value after less than twenty years'
wear. But that was the unfortunate truth.
1 He hadn't made it, and he couldn't mend
it, or he was sure, to oblige Miss Dacie, he

would. And these seals? Oh, out of
date ; only fit for melting ! A spade
guinea? Well, for her, he'd risk a sovereign
on that. And a ring? Diamonds?'
(The old dealer's eyes would have glistened
if long habit had not made him careful.)
4 Why, it was sparkling, no doubt, and '
twisting it on the end of his thick
thumb  'good; but the stones  oh, they
were small, and the setting antiquated.'

4 It was a great-aunt's ; she left it tome,
and the watch, too,' poor Mary Dacie
faltered. 'We always thought them
valuable.'

4 And they are,' agreed ready Mr. Samuels,
'very  valuable, indeed, from a-a-asso-
citation ; but as a matter of business 1
couldn't give more for the lot, Miss Dacie,
than '

Than about a third of what she had
humbly hoped ! Pained chagrin nearly

unhinged her. But, if she turned back
from the half-completed ordeal, those
wretched bills would gall her worse than
ever. So she did her best to answer lightly,
though all the shop looked blurred and
misty for a minute.

4 Then, if you can give no more, Mr.
Samuels, I suppose I can get no more. I
have another watch at home ' (a school-girl
treasure, price forty shillings sixteen years
before), ' and I scarcely ever wear rings,
so these are of little use to me. I must
take what you offer. You did say guineas,
did you not?'

Mr. Samuels had, indeed, used that
magnificent term, but he fully intended
slipping through the transaction in five
per cent, lowlier form. But there was an
anxiety about the question that over-rode
his cupidity ; also, he perceived that one
of the seals was worth treble what he at

first suspected. So with an air of generosity
he conceded the odd shillings, unlocked
his cash-box, paid out the sum, and,
with the sincere assurance that he should
be pleased to do similar business with herat
any time, bowed Miss Dacie forth.
Five minutes later he, with a deeper
reverence, let out the stranger, who had
emerged from behind the desk as soon as
the lady left.

4 It's an odd thing, very said the old
jeweller to himself, peeping after the gentleman
as he strode off out of downwards.
'I don't know his face, nor his name, but I
do know he's the right sort to deal with.
Thirty per cent., with no waiting and no
higgling, isn't to be sneezed at in these
times !'

An hour after this episode Mr. Yaughan
was roused from his coffee and the l Virgil '
that served as scholarly sauce to his plain

VOL. II. T

fare, by an unexpected guest, and got upto
welcome Richard Drayton right heartily.

'Dropped from the clouds!' he cried.
I'm glad enough to see you ; but why this
sudden appearance after months of never a
line ? Come  explain.'

1 Work, sir, work,' said Mr. Drayton,
giving up baggage and overcoat to the
rectory housekeeper, and taking the seat
and coffee his host pushed towards him.
'I think I may boast I've not passed a lazy
day since I left you twelve months ago.'

So ! That sounds well. But '  when
they were alone  ' what has come of your
labour? A certain person got out of my
sight once for nigh twelve years, and came
back no better off than when he set out.
Eh?'

True, sir, so far as cash goes ; and I've
not much more to show for my industry
this time.'

Ah !' The rector looked disappointed.
He knew his old pupil a worthy, and would
fain see him a successful man.

c But, unless I'm much mistaken, I shall
have before long. I used to get chaffed
abroad by men cleverer and bolder than
myself for missing opportunities of fortune
by waiting too long to make sure of my
way ; and the habit sticks, I suppose. I
must make sure of good foundations before
I set to building.'

Well, then, let me hear about your
foundations, Drayton ;' on which invitation
the younger man discussed with his old
tutor the particular paths which had
opened out since they met, seeming to
disclose, at no great distance of time,
means of property in comparison with
which his inherited income was a mere
bagatelle.

So far for what is accomplished,' het

2

said, at the end of explanations, carefully
followed by bis host. ' Now for what is
to come. Perhaps, sir, you will think it a
bit romantic when I say I want to see that
favourite Miss Alwyn of yours before I go
any further.'

In a moment the rector's interested
countenance grew troubled. How success
and sorrow mixed themselves up in this
life, to be sure !

1 My dear fellow,' he said, in tones of
vexation, i I'm afraid I have bad news for
you there. Miss Alwyn has left St. Clairs
these three months.'

'Left! just when I wanted to tell  when
I wanted her to say !  Now, by all that's
unlucky, how I wish I had come earlier.
Once more I've been too slow. But I can
follow her wherever she is, for of course
you know, sir ?'

No more than you do.'

Then, careful to avoid watching the
signs of extreme disappointment on his
hearer's face, the rector, as far as he felt
at liberty, told of Sydney's good-bye to
him, and the subsequent vacating of The
Dale, finishing with : 

So I fear, Drayton, here is a block in
the good luck you had not calculated on.'

But one that must be got over,' said
the other, resolutely. s Can }< ou tell me,
sir, where the Alwyns came from to St.
Clairs ; I might get their present whereabouts
so.'

I have not the slightest idea. I never
heard their former home named.'

c Nor anything of their former life? Mr.
Alwyn's profession or so forth?'

'Nothing whatever. It has struck me
sometimes it was a subject purposely
avoided.'

Mr. Drayton crumpled up his brows, and

for a minute thought intently. Then he
asked : 

1 And you've no clue to what took Miss
Sydney away ?'

c Not the least. I only surmise, from
the poor child's emotion, it was something
delicate and painful. As she could not
disclose it, I have no right to pry into it,
Though, as for you  you haven't said in
so many words why you want to see her,
but, my dear Dick '

1 But I must find her somehow,' broke
in Mr. Dick, abruptly. ' If you can't set
me on my way, sir, I suppose no one at
St. Clairs can ?'

No one, unless Miss Dacie has heard of
her since we last met.'

Ah, I could ask her, couldn't I?' said
Mr. Drayton, with great alacrity. ' Oughtn't
I go to-night?'

At a quarter to ten ! Nay, that's past

canonical calling hours in the country.
Wait till the morning. '

So till the morning Mr. Drayton was fain
to curb his impatience, rewarding resolution
by starting for the Gate House at nine
o'clock next day.

Mary was working diligently in the
garden, her conscience a little lighter for
the thought of three receipted bills in her
desk. She heard a step, looked up, saw
who came, and had no time to flee into the
house and hide a preposterous attack of
shyness and her much faded cotton gown
before he was by her side.

In trepidation worthy of a lass in her
teens, she got her hand out of its huge
leather glove and offered a disjointed
greeting, enraged at her own awkwardness,
though, as a matter of fact, with
the sunshine on her yellow brown hair
and a rising colour in her cheeks, she

looked younger than she had done for
many a day, and, spite of the washed-out
print, a gentlewoman comely and graceful
still.

Perhaps this struck Mr. Drayton, for
he shook hands with her warmly, and
then, having picked up her rake and hoe,
shook hands again, remarking that he
would have come in the night before, but
had arrived too late, so he took time by
the forelock to-day.

We  my father will be very pleased to
see you,' said Mary, leading the way in
with another blush. ' He was wondering
last week if we should ever see you again.'

4 See me ! Why, of course you would.
I wanted very much indeed to get here.
For, Miss Dacie, I am so hoping you can
tell me something of your friends at The
Dale. Of Miss Alwyn especially.'

The bright colour left Mary's cheeks

with a chill rush. To hear of Sydney he
had come. Only that !

1 I can tell no more than that she is
gone,' she said, thankful on such a theme
she might be pardoned sadness.

'And you can't help grieving over it,
can you?'

'Indeed, no!' turning her head away.

L And I'm sorry too. On your account,'
he was staring determinedly at her, but
Mary kept her face invisible, i and hers
too, and my own'; I'd have given a good
deal to have found her here. Can't you
possibly do us all a good turn by putting
me on the track to see her ?'

'If I could I would, Mr. Drayton' (it
cost something, that assertion !) ' but I
have no knowledge of where she is.'

Nor her mother ?'

'Mrs. Alwyn was at Zurich a month
ago.'

c Zurich. Hem. It will be a roundabout
road if I have to trace her from
there. But one or the other I must see.
Propriety says Mrs. Alwyn. Preference
says Miss. The lady mother and I seemed
mutually repellent. While Miss Sydney
Mary swallowed a great heart-burning
during that pause  c she would answer the
question I have to put in a moment. You'll
give me your good wishes to speed me to
her, won't you, Miss Dacie ?'

By good fortune in came the doctor
and Mrs. Dacie just then. With a murmur
of affirmation Mary escaped to the
other end of the tidy, shabby room, and
busied herself with mending, while the
father and mother chatted with their
caller.

Of course they had presently their say
about the Alwyn s, and Mrs. Dacie reiterated
her belief that it was an affair

of the affections which drove Sydney
away  ' affection on the one side, Mr.
Drayton, not hers ! I'm confident our
dear Sydney would choose differently.
I'm not a conjuror, but I fancy I know
where ! Though, perhaps, that's hardly
fair, is it ?'

But the gentleman was deaf to these
last words and their inuendo. Mary had
just slipped quietly out of the room, and
he expressed a hope that he had not
interrupted Miss Dacie by coming so
early.

Oh, no, my daughter is not often long
with us in the morning, unless,' said poor
Mrs. Dacie, half-humbled, half-proud at
the admission, ' unless we mean to go without
our dinner ! Don't frown at me,
doctor dear ! Mr. Drayton knows quite
well we are not rich, and that Mary is a
daughter-of-all-work !'

Possibly the doctor dreaded more domestic
revelations, for hereat, with an apology,
he said he must be starting on his round ;
it was not a long one, but it took him a
good while to walk; and he explained,
elaborately, to the visitor, who volunteered
to go with him and lend him an arm, how
Punch being defunct they had made up
their minds, for various reasons, not to
replace him at present. Between the lines
of which Mr. Drayton read the truth
pretty plainly, and had his deduction confirmed,
when, the three-mile trudge over,
they again neared the Gate House.

For Mary hastened to meet them,
exclaiming,

Oh, papa, have you seen the man from
Oakleigh Place? No? Ah, then, he is
gone on to Doctor McMcAndrew ! You were
wanted to attend the housekeeper. If only
you had had poor Punch now, you would

have been back in time. Isn't it unlucky ?'

As usual P said the poor old supplanted
medicis, rather bitterly ; and Mr. Drayton
left them, to mature a fine design just
planted in his brain.

He took another walk by himself that
afternoon, and admitted its aim that evening
to the rector.

Your parish spreads so far, sir ; you
ought to have a good cob for the outlying
parts. I looked out such an animal
as would suit you to-day at the farm up
the road, where you like the people.'

1 Hammering ? Ay, they are good
folks, and have excellent cattle. But,
friend Richard, such a luxury means
money ; and I've not enough to spare for
that. Besides, my exercise would never
keep the creature in health.'

'Just so, sir. But there's Dr. Dacie
killing himself, and losing his patients, for

want of a quadruped. Couldn't you and
be keep a cob between you ? I'll leave
you to settle terms (without mentioning
me though, please) but the fact is I've
bought that brown nag of Hamilton's,
and I want to get it into the Dacier' stable
somehow. I know Miss Alwyn would
have managed it. You won't refuse the
office in her stead, will you, sir ?'

So the upshot of that device was that a
few hours after Mr. Drayton left St. Clairs
next day (' I'd much rather have stayed
longer,' he assured Mary ; ' but I really do
so want to find Miss Alwyn. I hope I
shall return with her leave, and tell you
what she and I had to talk about before
long !') a serviceable steed was discovered
crunching oats in Punch's manger, and for
the present Mr. Yaughan had to carry off
his share of the pious fraud as best he
could, determining to make a clean breast

of the conspiracy the very next time Mr.
Drayton came down.

But, though they all seemed vaguely
to expect him soon, the year wore out
without his reappearing. A note reached
the Gate House early in October, saying,

'Dear Miss Dacie,

f Shortly after leaving
St. Clairs I met the Major Villiers whom I
had once seen there. By his assistance I
was put in the way of obtaining information
which I hinted at to you. Unfortunately,
I have not had the pleasure of seeing Miss
Alwyn at present. I thought you might
be expecting to hear this, which is all I
feel myself as yet free to communicate.
Kindly accept my best regards, and believe
me, very faithfully yours,

c Richard Drayton.'

Whatever did it mean? Had he,

through her former guardian, offered himself
to Sydney and been rejected?
Impossible! Was there to be a private
engagement ? Why, what for ? And yet
what else could this semi-confidence betoken
? Mary read her note fifty times,
surreptitiously cried over it; then, in a
rage at her weakness, nearly burnt it.
Relented, hid it in an innermost drawer,
took it out and looked at it at night, and
continually, with some reason maybe,
called herself for her pains the very biggest
goose, or any other emblem of absurdity,
that ever stepped !

CHAPTER XI.

ROCKS AHEAD !

The September evening when Sydney
went back from Stillcote-Upton to Capel
Moor, so grateful had she felt at the manifest
desire for her return that she would
willingly have taken double duties on herself
for Jean Hurst or for her brother.
But in one direction this impulse not only
met no response, but was steadily repelled.
A curious change came over Mr. Hurst's
bearing towards her. He had been always
grave, reserved, save when he warmed upto
some subject under study, or on those
vol. n. u

notable occasions when he talked with
Sydney on their early morning and homeward
walks together. Still there had
been a brightening in all his aspects as
the hours he evidently enjoyed came round,
and Sydney's apt questionings and pertinent
calls upon the wealth his splendid
memory held, roused him unfailingly to
cheerful activity, if not positively active
cheerfulness.

Now this was altered. As unobtrusively
but completely as when between eve and
dawn myriads of silent snowflakes spread
a white shroud over the living earth, so
some spell was cast over these signs of
reawakening interest in existence. The
books begun before were finished certainly,
and not a shade of his usual attention or
thanks did Mr. Hurst remit. A chair
would be always placed for his interpreter
of pages, in warmth and light between

fire and window, though he, no longer
seated near, would listen, shoulder up
against the book-case, as far off as the
room permitted. The volumes needed
would be ready for Sydney, he trained his
touch to that task without taxing Jean's
assistance. Punctilious he grew that Miss
Grey should not read on into the hour
allotted to their midday walk. But the
zest their occupation had seemed acquiring
had somehow died down. When Sydney
tried to win it back, reading her very best,
her mind set keenly on her work, her reward
was curious. Mr. Hurst would for
two, or even three days break through
routine, and betake himself to the riverside,
leaving her mornings purposeless aud
void. And, if she halted to have knotty
points disentangled, she was not answered
at once by clear viva voce explanation,
but referred, most politely but coldly, to

u2

some authority among the tomes hard by.

Herein was something amiss, Sydney
divined. The fervour of her helpfulness
was damped. Wistfully she waited, hoping
every day the cloud would go by. Forbidden
by instinct as by position to seek
the cause of the change, never had she felt
so much the stranger in the strange land
as now, and she was even thankful when
Miss Hurst volunteered her private opinion
on the matter, wide of the mark though it
might be.

They were sitting, one October afternoon,
in the drawing-room that looked
east up the long moor, west on the yellowing
trees across the river.

Sydney had used her undesired leisure
to write a letter, which was to reach Mary
Dacie via Paris, where Mrs. Alwyn
sojourned, and now assisted Miss Jean to
wind off links of Welsh wool, casting, from

time to time, a glance towards the orchard,
where Mr. Hurst's tall form passed, and
repassed, on the hither side of the fruit-bereft
boughs.

Miss Hurst followed one glance, and
smiled sagaciously.

My brother is not quite so wedded to
his beloved " ologies " as he was,' she observed,
mild exultation in her tone. ' I
thought it was a wonder if that incessant
listening did not wear itself out soon. I
must say I'm glad it has.'

4 Oh, why?' Sydney could not forbear
asking. ' You seemed so gratified that
Mr. Hurst should get back to his old
pursuits.'

c So I was. I thought it a very good
thing, in moderation. But lately, Miss
Grey, 1 was getting jealous. Not of you
oh, no, no !' laughing, for Sydney opened
such an astonished pair of eyes  ' Not

that, the least. But jealous of all those
clever things I can't enter into. I was
afraid he would get wrapped up in them,
and presently grudge such a dunce as meany
of his company. You see, Miss Grey,
I have no one but him, now, to lean to.
The more dependent on me he is, the more
I feel him my very own. Whatever came
between us, whether it was a person, or a
thing, I couldn't help hating !' stopping to
wipe away a tear.

1 T don't think,' said Sydney, comfortingly?
' J ou need fear anything at all of
that sort.'

'No? Well, I flatter myself, you are
right, Miss Grey. You see how ready he
is to get off his reading now, and you
must be so glad of the rest, so'  not
heeding a negative shake of the head 
we are all satisfied ! For,' moralised
Miss Hurst, sagely, ' the very best of

books cannot completely satisfy a man's
wants. No books, for instance, can talk to
Gilbert as I can ! And it's a great comfort
to me, to find be realizes this. Have
you not noticed lately, bow much less beseems
to care for a remains," and "roots,"
and goodness knows what stuff. And
bow often bell turn the conversation to
the apples or the weather, or something
be knows I take an interest in. And bave
you observed bow often be says, now,
Are you not coming to sit down, Jean ?
Don't be long away." Science and Art
are all very well, but they're not a man's
sister, Miss Grey. Honestly, I rejoice at
poor, dear Gilbert finding out it is me be
wants most of all !'

Not a syllable of this was Sydney able
to gainsay, however intuition might question
the self-satisfied ultimatum. So closer
and closer did the spinster-lady bug ber

happy idea, and never hesitated to strain
this dependency of kinship to its very
uttermost.

To wit.

An open letter lay on the breakfast-table
one morning when Sydney came
down. Miss Hurst had just ended reading
it aloud. Her brother, with the unusual
relaxation of anticipated pleasure on his
features, was saying,

It would be capital to have him here,
Jean. You don't recollect much of his
stay at our old home, but, if you had seen
him with me at Pritchard when the
verdict went against me, you'd like
him as I do. And I promise you, he
won't expect to be treated with ceremony.
He will suit himself to our accommodation
in a moment.'

Something unprecedented, a visitor, seemed
impending. Less to Miss Hurst's satisfaction,

than her brother's, though. The
lady, with an air of being much put upon,
clattered the breakfast equipage, sighed
noticeably, and then said, slowly,

Ob, if you wish it so very, very much,
Gilbert, pray have your friend. You ought
not to be put off out of consideration forme.'


 Why, Jean, a night's lodging to my old
chum won't put you out, will it?'

Another sigh, with a dejected smile at
Sydney, that said, c Oh, the denseness of
male creatures !' Then an evasive, c Oh,
never mind ; when do you want him to
come, Gilbert?'

Why, next Monday, according to what
he says, is it not ?'

And this is Thursday. Then I'll go
into the attic to-night, and give time for
my room to be got ready.'

1 Jean, you shall do nothing of the sort.

I could change, or anything will do for  *

Miss Hurst interrupted with sad severity.
1 No, Gilbert, you know I should never
suffer you to move. And " anything " will
not do for a guest. But leave it to me.
As you are so anxious to have him, make
your mind easy. Everything shall be
ready.'

Another mournful inspiration temporarily
closed the topic. But at the dinner-table
it was revived.

On your visitor's account we dine later
on Monday, Gilbert.'

1 There's no necessity, Jean.'

6 Oh, but there is. We dined at half-past
six when he was with us at the dear
old rectory. I shouldn't like him to consider
that we've, as it were, gone down ;
though,'  to Sydney  L as I told you before,
late dinners, as a rule, require more experienced
servants than I can afford. But I

can help all the morning, and we'll make
the effort for once. Oh, and should you
consider, Gilbert, my orchard-trees want
pruning this month, or shall I put it off
till January ?'

1 I'm not wise on such matters,' confessed
Mr. Hurst. ' Suppose you ask
Davis.'

1 Oh, lies certain to say, " Do it directly,"
because he likes getting here to
work. But, you see, if we are to have
this Mr.- '

1 Now, Jean,' protested her brother,
with wonderful good nature, ' don't try to
make me believe a solitary man stopping
here a single night can possibly interfere
with your tree-pruning.'

1 But, Gilbert, it does !' cried Miss
Hurst, sharply, c and I'll show you how.
You are as unimaginative as Rebecca.
She was telling me this morning we had

mice, and that we must have a cat to kill
them. " A cat," said I, " Eebecca ! a trap,
you mean. They are the things for mice.
A trap doesn't break plates : a trap doesn't
jump up the larder shelf and steal the
fish : a trap doesn't run away with one's
young chickens, nor require a pennyworth
of milk to drink every day. A
penny a day comes to thirty shillings and
five pence in a year, Eebecca," I said, " and
if I waste it so I shall not have it to spare
for other objects. We'll have no cat !"
And just the same, Gilbert, with receiving
company. I can't do that and prune the
orchard. For before I have a stranger
here I must get'  docketing each article
off on her fingers  ' a new door-scraper ;
fresh carpet on the landing ; a new lid to
the soup tureen  I shouldn't cut off a
friend, who was such a friend that he could
even go through that trying work at the

oculist's with my poor brother, without
soup !  and to get these things I must
journey to Hereford. Also we should be
compelled to have the front garden done
up. All of which would take more than  '

Mr. Hurst just lifted his hand as if
deprecating this torrent of items.

1 I understand,' he said, ' we'll settle this
presently, Jean. I am apt to forget how
much you have to think of.'

Something in his manner silenced Miss
Hurst's loquacious outpour. She looked
at him askance :

1 You will have some more beans,
Gilbert?'

'No more, thanks, Jean.'

4 Oh, but they are the last this season.
I have not touched them myself on
purpose that you should have them.'

1 Good Jean,' he answered, but pushed
aside his plate, and Miss Hurst ate up

what he refused, with the air of a victim
to masculine caprice.

It was dusk that afternoon when Sydney,
lamp in hand, came down from her own
room, and heard herself softly called from
the door of the study. Mr. Hurst had been
there alone for the last hour. Now she
found out what for.

Have you a light ?' he asked (those
everyday admissions of his loss always
smote her afresh with pain). ' Then will
you come here ? Have I not been doing
mischief ? I caught my arm on the inkstand,
and I expect I have undone my
afternoon's labour

True enough, an inky pool was spreading
rapidly over the blotting pad, but, as
yet, it was a good inch off the written
page lying thereon. Sydney moved this
hastily.

'Your letter is safe. The envelope ?

Oh, that you are holding. I can soon put
the things straight and rub the ink marks
off the table.'

Has it hurt the carpet, or spoilt anything
?' he asked, anxiously. ' Clumsy
that I am. I don't want to damage the
least of my poor sister's household goods.'

You have done no harm, and there is
not a speck on your letter. Here it is.'

But he drew back as she approached
with it, asking, with a hesitation that
struck her as most sad,

4 Will you look it through for me ? I
am forced to come to  you. It is my
first production without help. Is it
legible ?'

Perfectly !' But the penmanship of
such elaborate pains was so different,
in its careful distances and angles, from
the freely written manuscripts of his days
of light, that her one word betrayed commiseration.

Mr. Hurst mistrusted her.

1 If readable he said, ' will you let me
hear it, please. There is no secret in it.'

So bidden, she read :

c Dear old fellow. Best thanks for your
note. As for the enquiry therein, your
informant was right. We long ago parted
with all interest in the concern you name.
Unlucky for us we ever had any in it.
Whatever you are after, I wish you prosperity.
I am not such a curmudgeon as
to grudge my old college-mate good luck,
though I seem out of the running. I
should hugely enjoy a chat with you, but
just now a visit would not suit my excellent
" powers that be." Therefore I cannot
say " come." That I will do so, as
soon as ever I cau, you very well know.
Till then, or till I manage my pen better
in the dark, fare you well. Always, dear
Drayton '

Drayton !' exclaimed Sydney, with a
great start.

1 Yes, D-r-a-y-t-o-n. Have I not put it
plain ? Richard Drayton, he is : the fellow
who chummed with me at Marlborough and
Oxford, and won many a lecture, and, for
all that, the hearty good liking of our dear
old tutor, Yaughan. Ah, me, but those
were good times ! Is the name right?'

'Yes! 1 I see now. Shall I fold it
for you ?'

She put the missive in its cover, read the
superscription to her last year's acquaintance,
now no further away than Worcester,
checked all thanks, kept mute watch over
Mr. Hurst, till very quietly, out by the
side entrance, he went off with his letter 
all this she did as if, awake, she were fulfilling
a dream, completely for a space
overcome by this strange coincidence of
being sent by Fate to minister to that sad-vol.

II. x

deed life she had felt so drawn toward,
because described as ' well-nigh helpless,
well-nigh hopeless.'

Pondering this added perplexity to her
situation, mechanically she cleared away
all signs of Mr. Hurst's disaster, replaced
the blotting-paper from her store (she
would not have Mr. Hurst worried over
that!) and then went out into the soft
twilight, to let a blusterous south wind
aid in clearing away the new complication.

At first it seemed great. Must she leave
Wynstone, for fear of Mr. Drayton's ever
coming ? Did her promise to her mother
exact such extreme caution ? Oh, surely
not. Surely, as she was doing no harm, she
might stay. She ought. She would ! A
pain seemed lifted off her heart, when she
decided thus. For awhile, at any rate, she
need not go. With a long, tremulous
breath of relief, she looked up and smiled

at the stars peeping down from behind the
scurrying clouds, and then went back,
gravely but gladly, into the house she was
tying herself to by bonds beyond her
present comprehension.

Mr. Hurst was home again, and in the
fire-lit drawing-room, leaning on the back
of his sister's chair.

1 Where have you been ?' Miss Hurst
was saying. 'Out? Oh, Gilbert, you
know it fidgets me to have you on the road
after dark

'Why, Jean, it's the same as day to me.'

4 But not to other people. You might
be hurt, or run over. Don't you remember
Cousin Priscilla's terrier got under a
cart-wheel in the dusk, and had to be
chloroformed, and put out of the way, and
how she fretted over it? I should fret a
deal more over you, so don't go out in the

gloaming, please.'

x2

'I'm a deal of trouble to you, Jean;'
letting his hand fall on her shoulder.

'Well, well. Who minds ? 1 don't.
You can't help it.'

A few seconds silence. Then, ' What I
can help, I will. You won't be put outby
Drayton, Jean. I have stopped his
coming.'

1 You have ?' with animated relief.
But,' compunctiously sliding her fingers
into his, ' it vexes you to give him up ?
You are so dull here.'

1 No, Jean. Not dull, with you  and  '

The gratified sister broke in with a purr
of contentment. ' It is the greatest mercy
left us, Gilbert, to think we are all in all to
each other.'

And, in her unbounded satisfaction at
this view, Miss Hurst was for weeks more
trying demonstrative than ever, as caretaker,
or indeed, proprietor of her disabled

brother, vaunting their unanimity down to
life's most minor details.

1 Ob, dear she cried, coming laughing
in one evening near Christmas time, when
Sydney was reading of the past year's
politics to Mr. Hurst, ' did you hear me
scolding Fanny in the hall just now ?
The silly girl was creeping in from the
orchard with a bunch of mistletoe to hang
up in the kitchen. " No, Fanny," said I,
none of that nonsense, if you please ! I
cannot allow you any such tricks ; Mr.
Hurst and I never dream of such absurdities."
Mistletoe indeed ! Ah, Gilbert,
we've forgotten such things, have we
not?'

Her seniority might have prompted the
speech ; but it was an awkward one. Mr.
Hurst took it in dead silence. Sydney, on
whose lips since her father died, nothing
tenderer had lain than Mary Dacie's kiss,

felt her cheeks suddenly aflame ; the more
needless those blushes, the more they
burnt. Happily they faded unmarked,
while Miss Hurst hunted up her woodwork.
But the vivid colour would often now fly
to Sydney's face, out of somewhat indignant
sympathy. For poor Miss Jean's
determination to level her brother to her
own standard, grew more and more
aggressive. He must live and move
according to her solicitous rule ; be pleased
with her great self-denying skill in providing
him gentlemanly fare and habiliments
out of her narrow income ; never
feel or exhibit other desire than to vegetate
placidly under her sisterly code. And how
such a man endured this life Sydney, with
eyes open to the capacities of each, marvelled
more every day.

Marvelled ! Till she recognised in this
pathetic submission to the affectionate, fid-getting

feminine despot the culture of something
superior to intellect, and realised each
time she saw him harassed yet uncomplaining,
wounded yet not outwardly wincing,
that the deepest force of his strong manhood
was under more powerful control than that
of either mere moral or physical mastership.
All of which knowledge carried her on to
very dangerous regions !

CHAPTER I.

A HAPPY NEW TEAR TO YOU.

It was the last day of the year.

Miss Hurst, with much importance,
brought to the morning sitting-room
twelve months* accumulation of bills and
letters, the former all paid, the latter all
answered, yet, she conceived, requiring to
be ' run through ' before filling or destroying.
And this sacrifice to the manes
of the fleeting months involved such
examining, explaining, that all other

VOL. III. B

occupations bad to be set aside to assist at
it.

Sydney's share in the work was simple,
consisting of tearing innumerable epistles
into diminutive bits, out of which Miss
Hurst made queer little pillows and
presented them to the poor: Mr. Hurst's
was equally easy to him, the addition
mentally of items of domestic outlay, by
which Miss Hurst could satisfy herself that
neither she nor her tradesmen had been
egregiously cheating one another. But
the worst of the labour lay below the
surface, certainly to one, perhaps to two
concerned. For it appeared that never a
trifle had been purchased for the house,
done in, or wanted by it, that had not
somehow been necessitated by ' Gilbert.'
*Dear Gilbert as this best of managers
never failed to dub him, had in some
mysterious v/ay compelled the roof repairing,

rooms reprinting, a score of fads
supplying  though his tastes were simple
as a hermit's !  and had, by wants or
wishes, drained the slender family purse of
its last pound. ' Though cried Jean
Hurst  a sincere believer in her own
ingenuous self-deception  ' I don't mind
that the least ! Some call it drudgery forme
to have to manage like this ; Mrs.
Greaves often says it is  you know whom I
mean, Gilbert. Miss Grey is tearing up
one of her letters now; but I always
answer " No." I care for nothing while I
see you comfortable, Gilbert dear !'

With which triumphant speech this
epitome of skill and devotion gathered up
her account-books, swept and garnished
for another year's campaign, and bestowed
a caress of mild patronage on her brother's
thick brown hair, that was showing lines
of white long before its legitimate time.

b2

For an instant a stings, all but unbearable,
confessed itself in the quick, fierce contraction
of brows and mouth. Sydney
knew that look must come ; watched
covertly, caught it, brief though it was.
Another moment it was quenched in the
nobler peace his face habitually wore.
Her own eyes sank, filling with tears.

Take the morning while it is fine, and
have your walk now, Miss Grey,' counselled
Miss Hurst ; and having asked, somewhat
wistfully, 'Can I do nothing for you, Mr.
Hurst?' and been answered, 'Nothing
whatever, I thank you,' she hurried out
into the fresh, keen air, there haply to get
rid of the pent-up irritability engendered
by the last two hours.

What peculiar set of nerves had started
quivering she could not tell. Nor could
she define precisely why Miss Jean's
maladroit tenderness provoked her oftener

and oftener to the verge of expostulation.
Driven up a corner, she might have averred
it was bare instruct prompting protection
of one who, with rare self-restraint, forbore
all self-defence. But up this inquisitorial
corner she was not to be hedged till all
ways but one were closed. Meanwhile,
she sped along the breezy upper road, the
river always in sight  that river which
once Mr. Hurst had called, in half-jesting
earnest, his very good friend, for * he
could trust it with his cares, it listened,
sang to him, soothed him, went by and
told no one !'  permitting herself no
speculation on the future beyond an unanswerable,
'Shall I be here when next
year ends, as now ?'

An undreamt-of factor in the solution of
this question met the girl, as, with well-poised
figure, she stepped lightly along the
frost-bound path. A pair of elderly eyes

observed her with interest from a well-built
brougham, till the vehicle took a
turn, and coming to the porch at Wynstone,
deposited its occupant on an untimely
call.

It was Mrs. Preece, wife of Capel Moor's
non-resident rector whose modern gothic
dwelling peeped at his second, seldom visited
parish, from among the trees on the opposite
side of the water. One mile and a half
lay between the ecclesiastical edifices over
which the Reverend Everard Preece presided,
but communication between the villages
could only be held by crossing the stream,
or by a five mile detour over the nearest
bridge, and this may account for the fact
that the Pieces' poorer flock at Capel
Moor had to shift spiritually very much
for themselves, comforting their sick or
shriving their dying according to their
own rustic lights ; taking their Sabbath

services at one hour or another, or not at
al], as the state of the river, or road, or
rectory horses decided. It was a condition
of affairs that enemies of episcopacy
averred would never have been allowed if
Capel Moor had not been a good living, held
by a rich man. Had poverty entered the
situation, ' then,' said these prejudiced
folks, ' the rector would soon have felt the
pastoral crook about his shoulders !' And,
quite lately, a vindictive local paper had
stirred up such a hubbub on the matter,
that the outcome was an alteration, which
the rector's wife came herself to announce.

Ushered straight into the study, Gilbert
Hurst was unable to elude this guest, whose
heavy conversational touch experience had
taught him to dread ; so, with his annoyed
sister, he rose to receive her.

'The same as ever?' questioned Mrs.
Preece, in rasping tones of condolence,

ignoring Mr. Hurst's bow, and diving
after his hand, which she persisted in
holding in her own remittent clasp while
she spoke. ' No better ? Sto likelihood of
restoration of that precious power ? None !
Oh, how I feel for you! Do let me give
you a chair. 1 can find one for myself.
We, who are not afflicted, ought to wait on
those who are ! But never do I see you,
Mr. Hurst, without saying afterwards to my
husband, " Affliction has fallen on rich
ground, rich, Everard ; Mr. Hurst knows
it is well ordained. He carries himself as
an Englishman, a gentleman, a Christian !'
Having delivered which speech, at once
patriotic, polite, and pious, Mrs. Preece relinquished
the unresponsive palm, seated
her fur-encased figure by Miss Hurst (she
provokingly conscious of her oldest shabbiest
homespun!) apologised for the unseasonable
visit with the simple explanation

that the hour suited her better than a
later one, and then entered on their
parochial quandary.

 It seems Capel Moor is considered benighted
! Why, I cannot really see. We
keep a schoolmistress here. We give the
choir a treat. We offer a guinea to anyone
who will take the duty if the water is
out, or Mr. Preece or the horses ill, so what
more can be expected reasonably ? Nothing
! But people are not reasonable, so I
have urged my husband to yield to the
times, and keep a curate. A man, as I
say, to look after our sheep on Capel Moor.
He will cost us a hundred and fifty a year,
so the sheep ought to be grateful.'

Here was news. Five small farmhouses,
and an occasional tenant of a
fishing-box on the river-side, formed the
present aristocracy of the village. A resident
clergyman would be an exciting

addition. To do Miss Hurst justice, her
first thought was it might be some one
Gilbert would take to.

Have you chosen a curate?' she asked y
and on hearing  yes and that he would
be there in a fortnight, inquired his
name, and where he would take up his
abode.

At the Manor. You know the house
is too large for the people who rent it.
They will be glad to let half, and attend
to Mr.  Mr.  I forget his name, and
his young family answered Mrs. Preece,

 Then the gentleman is married ?'

 A widower, just home from abroad.
He's been a missionary, and, according to
testimonials, is an excellent man. Of
course, we chose a good one. But we
have had a great deal to think of in getting
him. The applications we have had,
and the letters I have written 1 More than

once I have said to Mr. Preece, '' Ob, how
I wish poor Mr. Hurst, over there, had
taken orders before this sad incapacity
came on him " '

My brother, Mrs. Preece, never intended
to take orders.'

Ah, but if he had ! Then he could
have been the curate, with a little coaching
over the prayers and extempore sermons,
and it need not have cost us so
much  we may have to put down a horse,
as it is! and the stipend might have
been a help '

Miss Hurst bridled at this.

A help, Mrs. Preece, we are quite able
to do without. There is no need for my
brother to exert himself. 1 see that he
wants for nothing.'

Undoubtedly.'

Mrs. Preece wanted these Hursts'
friendliness for the curate, or the man

would leave out of sheer dulness, so she
tacked neatly off the shoal : 

I should have said it would offer occupation,
amusement, for Mr. Hurst. That
was what I meant. Though,' glad to turn
the subject,  that exceedingly ladylike
girl who lives with you must be a great
assistance in passing time. She looks
quite intellectual.'

Oh, yes : Miss Grey is a very acceptable
person,' admitted Miss Hurst, awkwardly.
' Gilbert, was there not a book we
promised Mrs. Preece the last time she was
here ? The day Miss Grey was gone out,
you know. "We seem to have forgotten it.
Can you remember what it was, Mrs.
Preece?'

'Not the least, and it's of no consequence,'
returned the rector's wife, not
easy to divert from any point on which she
felt curiosity. ' I recollect Miss Grey was

out in September when I care, and I was
sorry for it. My husband noticed her in
church and called her beautiful. And a
cousin of mine who came over to service
was loud in his admiration. I met the
youno lady just now, and I'm bound to
say I think the gentlemen are right. Ah,
Mr. Hurst, how I wish you could confirm
their opinion !'

He only answered with a forced smile,
but Miss Jean, who with meaning glances
had vainly essayed to stop Mrs. Preece,
now cut across the topic with the remark
that Miss Grey was sensible and understood
her position, and that was enough
for them. Appearances were of no consequence
whatever.

But it is nicer,' persisted Mrs. Preece,
to feel you have pleasing-looking people
about you. Don't you agree with me,
Mr. Hurst ?' He did, as tersely as possible.

sand, though I only saw her a
minute, I thought my cousin's observation
correct. He goes in for beauty, and said the
curve of Miss Grey's lips was simply perfect.
Oh, really,' cried Miss Hurst, exasperated
at this marplot's enlargement on an
ever avoided theme, ' my brother and I
have other things to think of besides Miss
Grey's or Miss anybody's lips ! My
housekeeping and his books do not leave
us time for such frivolous subjects, I
assure you, Mrs. Preece !' and by the
silence of one auditor, the annoyance
visible in the other, Mrs. Preece did at
last comprehend that the conversation she
had hit on was not congenial. Therefore
she began to fear the horse would catch
cold if it stood any longer ; hoped with
spring Mr. Hurst would come over and
dine with them, an invitation always
vaguely repeated, never definitely accepted.

And commending the new curate to
their courtesy With the impromptu message
that Mr. Preece  sent his compliments
and looked to them to make the
stranger at home there,' at last got up to
end her quarterly call.

Mr. Hurst opened the door ; his sister,
ringing a servant forward, would only
have gone the regulation half-a-dozen
paces with the visitor she was glad to be
quit of, but as her brother, returning to
fireside, fell into a fit of musing, Mrs.
Preece exclaimed from the hall : ' Oh,
Miss Hurst, a moment, please,' and the
lady so summoned approaching, ' now I
remember the curate's name. You ought
to know it, for fear Mr. Gilbert kindly
calls first. " Babbington." That is it.
*' Horatius Babbington." He's been among
the Jews, some nasty, dirty place, I daresay,
and got out of health, but this

quiet parish will soon set him up. I hope
you'll take to each other. "Babbington."
Don't forget. Good-day.'

The rich rector's lady wrapped her bearskins
round her in her brougham ; the well-to-do
equipage was coached dexterously
off the small grounds without carrying off
either gate-post ; housemaid Fanny watched
it roll away without incurring reproof
for ill-manners, and still Miss Hurst stood
transfixed where Mrs. Preece's last words
had fallen on her ears.

 Fanny she said presently, 'go and
shut the study door;' and when the girl
had vanished she seated herself at the foot
of the stairs, took some long breaths, and
put her hands over her face.

Horatius back  and coming here !' she
whispered, gasping interjectionally ; * and
that woman  hopes we shall  take to one
another ! And I'm so altered ! I wonder

if he is. Oh, dear, dear me. Dear me !
What a queer world it is !'

She was still sitting there, rocking herself
to and fro, looking very odd, when
Sydney returned brighter of spirit for her
half-hour in the brilliant air, penitent
moreover for her secret intolerance of
poor Miss Jean's shortcomings. The sight
of her form, agitated and in such unusual
position, brought Sydney quickly to her,
asking, ' What is it ? Are you ill ?' Or 
indefinite fright seizing her  ' Nothing has
happened ?'

Oh, no !' Miss Jean answered, re-assuring
if perplexing. * Nothing of any ' 
choking over the assertion  * consequence
to anyone ; unless me ; and that doesn't
signify. I was only  thinking  of a 
long time ago. People do. Silly people.
Like me ! They  can't  help it !'

And with actual tears meandering down

VOL. III.

her nose, Miss Hurst picked herself up and
went into the seclusion of her own room,
whence she emerged only to behave the
rest of the day with hysterical vivacity,
which contrasted so strongly with her
brother s extreme taciturnity, that Sydney
could not help suspecting her forenoon's
absence had in some way unusually tried
them both.

At night this surmise was confirmed
with an addenda that drew herself into the
thick of Wynstone's entanglements. She
had bidden them good-night, had seen Mr.
Hurst left (cruelly, as absurdly enough it
always seemed to her) in the fading firelight
below, and now sat by her dressing-table,
affected, spite of herself, by the
mingled excitement and depression that
seemed in the very air that day.

New Year's Eve. The old year dying,
nearly gone. The phantoms of its many

hours floating before her as such visions
will when anniversaries proclaim the junction
of our two eternities ; all that the
months had stolen looming out of the mists
of one ; Mary, with her true sweet face
and heart as sweet and true ; Rupert  she
smarted with self-contempt, thinking of
him ; that episode was growing horrible to
her womanly conscience ; her mother away
and angered still: the vigil was indeed
nigh bringing the girl's soul, in her solitariness,
very low, till a calm, worn face
seemed to gaze tenderly upon her once
again. ' My child will make it all right ;
God bless her,' came like an echo to her,
and in that blessing she was once more
strong.

She had need to be so.

A subdued tap at the door was followed
by Miss Hurst's entrance, in a wonderful
dressing-gown, and in a mood that could

c2

brook no rest till it had spent itself in
confidence.

I saw your light, I thought if you
didn't mind I would come and sit with
you, Miss Grey. When one has no one to
talk to the last hour of the year is so
dismal.'

 We must not let it be so,' said Sydney
pushing forward the dimity-covered armchair,
 I am wakeful enough to talk or
listen for hours.'

 Thank you,' said Miss Jean, looking
with pink eyelids and scanty unpinned
braids, most comically pathetic, ' I remember
how a friend of mine and I, years ago,
used to chat into the small hours when we
stayed with each other  girls will, you
know  and how we used to brush each
other's hair. May I brush yours, Miss
Grey? I should like the feeling of old
times.'

Certainly, though I wish you a better
ofl&ce,' Sydney said smiling, and let down
her dark rippling locks.

 What a quantity 1' shaking out the
splendid profusion, till Sydney could not
even catch a glimpse of the glass in front,
ah ! mine was thicker too when I was
young !'

And then with some brushing and many
pauses she told of her youth, purposeless
tales as they seemed, till Sydney perceived
they all drifted towards a certain point,
one halcyon spring when Miss Hurst had
basked in love's young dream, and been
affianced to her father's curate.

And oh ! Miss Grey, I felt forced to tell
you this for fear you should think me stiff
or singular with him. I don't wish to be
cold, but I must be stiff ; it will be best ;
for he is coming here to be curate, and we
must meet as strangers ! He brings his

poor little children, for he is a  widower !'
 A widower !' said Sydney, now greatly
interested. ' Then I suppose he married
because you wouldn't have him ?'

'Wouldn't? Ah, Miss Grey, that was
my worst share of the trouble I once told
you something about. I couldn't ! Papa's
money went, that should have been mine
and Gilbert's. Marrying without an allowance
from papa would have been impossible,
wicked. So my prospects went.
And papa's health. And Gilbert's sight.
For he would never have had to toil as he
did if we had not become poor. Oh me
oh me, you have no idea what a blow it
was !'

Perhaps I have, just a little.'

'No, you can't,' Miss Hurst's treble

wailed on. 'I shall never forget Gilbert

when I told him the grand investment had

failed, that papa had made by advice of the

man he trusted above all others ; and how
we should lose everything. Poor boy, at
first he was furious; then so miserable.
Ah, he was hot-tempered then. He's
drilled himself to something different now !
I remember he went off to Taffy's, as we
called '

Sydney gave such a start, Miss Hurst
apologised.

'I beg your pardon. My feelings got
into my fingers. I brushed too hard ; yes,
Taffy's, our old nurse's. Gilbert took all
his troubles to her. And she shared this
one. For she had given over all her
savings to the same man whose unlucky
counsel misled my father.' (Out of the
almost blank of earliest childhood rose that
summer afternoon ; the scent of flowers :
the drone of bees; old Taffy's soul: the
tall boy striding up the path, then flung at
length upon the bench. That was how,

when, and where she had seen Gilbert
Hurst before.) ' So she too had reason to
rue trusting Mr. Alwyn. Too hard again !
Ah, I must not talk of it. It makes me
forget myself. And please, Miss Grey,
never mention this before my brother.
The very name of Alwyn is like an old
wound to him. I never utter it nor talk
of Stillcote, where we lived. Shall 1 part
your hair now. Why  ' with a glance in
the mirror opposite  ' I have tired you out.
You look quite pale. Talking has eased
me, but it's time I said good-night or good-morning,
for it's past twelve. I hope, Miss
Grey '  sighing  * you have more prospect
of it than I have, and I wish you a happy
New Year !'

CHAPTER 11.

MISS VILLIERS Prospers IN PASTURES NEW.

Civility, by now, demands attention to
Sydney Alwyn's mother and step-sister,
who, when last discoursed of, were turning
their backs on scenes of lofty but bitterly-humiliated
hopes.

Leaving St. Clairs, in the frame of mind
both did, it is no wonder if even the liveliness
of foreign travel, effervescent draught
of amusement as it is to some, to them
appeared flat, stale, and unprofitable. Mrs.
Alwyn, released from surveillance of servants
and neighbours, gave naturalness
and ill temper free rein. To the garcons

the porters the white-coffee femines-de-
cJiamhre of the various hotels they visited,
she was an affliction not readily forgotten.
The ' grande dame Anglaise who, with her
superb command, kept them all dancing
obsequious attendance on her exacting
caprices, and then, callous to rueful looks,
departed, bestowing on never a one a franc
or a pfemiig beyond the legitimate bill-scored
terms of  service /' This species of
saving formed the chief pleasure of the lady's
first weeks abroad, and, combined with the
relaxation of finding fault with everything
provided for her everywhere, served as a
good-sized safety-valve, through which to
disperse the turbid irascibility that had
possessed her since the downfall of her
designs had driven her from The Dale.

And Miss Villiers extracted as little
enjoyment as her mother from the first
stages of their route. Cathedrals to her

were simply dingy buildings, a weariness
to the spirit and chilliness to the body.
They caused her to sneeze, which made her
eyelids red, which injured her appearance ;
therefore she avoided them. Their three
days on the Rhine she tolerated mainly
because this style of travelling neither
dusted her beautifully-draped tailor-made
costume nor chafed her dainty boots, the
preservation of whose glossy kid far overrode
any question of exploring the ruined
treasures on the legend-haunted banks.
Assuming a melancholy, half of laziness,
half of annoyance with her mother for
projecting a plan she had not had generalship
or luck to carry out, the younger lady
adopted a role of injured sulkiness, saw the
dark side of every day's conditions, and
for the first month after they left England
proved herself the very reverse of a cheerful
travelling companion.

By the end of that time, however, both
ladies began to tire of discords and minor
keys. Each knew well there was a point
of unquenchable importance on which it
was desirable for them to resume harmonious
action. Each approached it, not in the
spoken vulgarity of so many words, but
along side-ways suggested by circumstances,
and thus it came about that, by
the time they reached Lucerne with the
intention of there making a lengthened
sojourn, Mrs. Alwyn had once more donned
her graceful affability, and Leonora had
revived to interest in foreign fashions.

It was in the dawn of this happier state
of affairs that the pair sat one morning on
the balcony of the pension, where they preferred
chief rank to an almost lost identity
among the multitude thronging the huge
hotels. Two boxes of raiment had reached
them there from England. Leonora s

mood had enlivened over unpacking them.
In creamy lawn she had put to shame a
whole breakfast-table of ill-dressed tourists.
Now she mused on the delightful effect of
her toilette, idly picking oleander blooms
off the great green tub by which she leant,
while her mother studied one of Sydney's
letters just fetched from the posts restante.

*' Well, and at work," she reports herself,'
said Mrs. Alwyn, crumpling up the
carefully-worded missive as though it had
offended her : ' really,' glancing round to
see no one was within hearing, ' your
sister might belong to the lower classes by
her expressions ! However, while she is
satisfied, I intend neither to complain nor
to reproach her. Full forgiveness she has
no right to expect of me at present. But
it is a relief to have her decently settled.
The thought of her harassed me frightfully
the last month. Now, Leonora, I must

call back my spirits and attend to you
again !'

Leonora raised her well-smoothed eyebrows.
' Or, mamma,' she said, ' I may
see fit to attend to myself. I think if ever
I am to do that it is about time I began.'

This extraordinary outburst of independence
on the part of the usually pliant disposition
daughter took Mrs. Alwyn
thoroughly aback. Up went her eyeglasses
to inspect the fair speaker, with some dismay,
but that expression graduated
rapidly through surprise and curiosity
into gratification, as she followed the
graceful gesture of pleased recognition,
tempered with dignity, which Leonora
was bestowing on some one passing below.

 My dearest child, is that '

The gentleman who rescued our luggage
at Zurich? Yes, mamma. He
passed us there twice on the Hole Promenade.

He was with a slighter-figured
man, but very distinguished : Count
Sister.'

Count! How do you know, Leonora?'
The young lady blushed.

They were entering that pokey little
musee, mamma, just as we were leaving.
You were gone back for your sunshade.
They bowed to me and passed into the
first room. And I  I  looked at their
names in the visitors' book.'

And this gentleman is ?'

Mr. T. Morecoombe-Wood.'
Not titled, then !'

No, mamma, but English, and very
likely of better standing than a German
count. He is not just an ordinary holi-
day-maker, I feel sure. Both those men in
blue blouses were carrying his luggage
just now, and  oh, mamma, he has turned
back. He is coming here 1'

And Leonora suddenly began arranging*
oleanders on her bodice, while her
mother appeared wrapped in contemplation
of the clear still lake, though veritably
less absorbed in its beauties than in
the chances of her own and her daughter's
wounds getting speedily healed by the
medicine of a desirable marriage.

]!ot to let imagination, however, outstrip
common-sense, the mother shunned
further discussion of this new-comer to
the tension ; and when dinner-time found
Mr. Morecoombe-Wood filling the place of
the last arrival at the dinner-table, he received
from his (presumably) fair magnets
thither no more obvious attention than
from the other eighty odd sharers of the
repast

He was a man of fair height, inclining
not developed  into emhonpointj extremely
pale, with short hair and moustache of

inky blackness ; very quick and much-comprehending
eyes, that never met other
people's long enough for their own expression
to be too patent ; of an age still
interesting to the opposite sex; of easy
manner and conversation with his own ;
distinctly unobtrusive, yet a close observer
might have noticed that he kept his attention
very much on the alert for all that
Mrs. Alwyn and her elegant daughter said
and did. Though addressing them less
frequently than the freedom of the pension
would have permitted had he chosen to
push familiarity, still, mixing with groups
near by, he could glean from Mrs. Alwyn's
well-weighed remarks that she was travelling
mainly for her daughter's health ; that
with this view residence at home or abroad
was immaterial to her ; and that the chief
disadvantage of a roving winter would bethe
want of society, her own home-circle

VOL. III. D

having lain among the very elite of the
land.

This much acquired, Mr. Morecoombe-
Wood's glance followed Miss Yilliers with
growing and  as day after day slipped by
less guarded approbation. A rainy
evening bringing music to the fore, Miss
Yilliers was persuaded to expound, not a
humdrum ballad that any school-girl could
pipe forth, but the grand scena from ' Der
Freischutz.' From the plaudits at its conclusion
Mr. Morecoombe- Wood's were
missing. He ventured to carry them  a
separate offering to the fair cantatrice
while a miserable tenor was murdering
Adelaide;' and he contrived to make them
so impressive that thenceforth their intercourse
grew rapidly freer, and soon afforded
Mrs. Alwyn the insight she desired
into the gentleman's individual history.

A party of noisy Americans, one evening,

were planning excursions on the water
to watch the moon rise from a certain
point.

Would Mr. Morecoombe-Wood join
them ? Oh, he must ; they were going to
have fine times !' declared a Brooklyn belle,
in high-pitched persuasion ; and while she
waited reply Miss Yilliers' soft full tones
happened to remark to her vis-a-vis that
the sunsets from the Drew Linden were so
lovely. She and her mother were going
there directly. And Mr. Morecoombe-
Wood resisted the lively American's invitation,
and went strolling also towards
the Drew Linden, asking permission of one
couple he found there to share with them
the enchanted hour, though one is bound
to confess after they got together the sunset
seemed entirely forgotten !

Those riotous tourists are the bane of
the Continent in summer-time,' he 



planned. ' One gets so out of patience
with them. I often threaten myself with
returning to England for the empty
months.'

Then you never live in our own
country T Mrs. Alwyn asked.

As little as may be of late years.
When a man with enough, or more than is
good for him, doesn't anchor in some
domestic harbour early in life, he finds
English society rather barren by the time
he's my age. He gets rid of life more
easily by wandering, and has to take
every city in turn for his make-believe
home.'

'Not " has to," surely !' said Mrs. Alwyn,
very graciously. * I'm afraid you confess
yourself hard to please, if you say
that.'

An impeachment I plead guilty to,'
the gentleman returned. ' Neither London

nor other capitals, nor lands native or
foreign, have furnished temptation strong
enough to fasten me to any hearth, I can
truly say  up to this summer.'

The last sentence was added with a
slight change of tone. Mrs. Alwyn looked
keenly, but benignly, at the speaker,
who looked at Leonora, who looked at
the ground. And, had the sentiments
of the trio been gauged just then, the
germs of exultation might have been discovered
in each breast, though all went
gingerly to work towards securing their
fruition.

Another morning later on they strolled
under the trees by the lake's shore ; and
Mrs. Alwjn, filling up a pause with lauding
the glories of Pilatus, Mr. 
said, laughing, that after
his noble altitude our English peaks and
fells sang small and even  this with subdued

watchfulness  ' even Devonshire
slopes turned into ant-hills.'

Keswick I saw but once said Mrs.
Alwyn, * when I was first married to Mr.
Yilliers. Derbyshire I have never seen,
nor '  with an expression that seemed to
say, ' and she never wished to see it,' 
nor Devon.'

 The best of all, some say, and  Miss
Villiers you look tired ; here are two
vacant seats;' then placing himself at
angles on the grass, so as to command
the countenances of both companions 
and the one I know most. I lived upon
its eastern borders in former times, and I
keep fancying it was there I came across
your name, Mrs. Alwyn. " Alwyn "  yes,,
it struck me as soon as I heard it.' (Mrs.
Alwyn's face clouded, spite of her effort
to look unconcerned). 'And somehow I
had connected it with a great smash-up

I remember hearing of there. I fancied
it was a Mr. Alwyn who was hard hit ina
mining mishap my people used to talk
about.'

Leonora sent a scared look at her
mother from under her long; eyelashes.
Oh, that that second marriage had been
to some indistinguishable Smith or Jones!
But Mrs. Alwyn met the emergency
grandly. A recent lesson had taught her
that up to a certain point honesty is the
best policy. Moreover, this one man,
detached from the narrow prejudice of
English society, was different altogether
from that little county clique about St.
Clairs. Therefore, she girded ber nerves,
and, with quite a touching mixture of
suffering dignity and perfect candour,
answered,

Ah, that unusual surname gives me no
respite  no chance of casting our troubles

into oblivion. It tuas my husband whose
property was lost in the disaster you
allude to, Mr. Morecoombe-Wood. But,
as my own fortune and my dear child's
was secured beyond reach of harm, we
would far rather remember that mercy
than dwell on the other sad trial. The
locality of the dreadful business I know
nothing of. I feel I may beg you not to
use your knowledge of it to keep us, or
put others, in mind of a peculiarly trying
event.'

My dear madam, I beg ten thousand
pardons for having spoken of it at all !
Henceforth the subject becomes a blank
to me. I should long ago have forgotten
it, but for the impression made on me by
its being so much talked of in our set 
at the Highcoombes. But you say you
are not acquainted with the families in
those parts ?'

Not at all.'

Ah, then, low the Highcoombes escaped
being entangled in it wouldn't interest you,
so I won't talk of it. They are the chief
people in  that unlucky neighbourhood.
Splendid place they have, too, though they
are not as old as in the county as the
Morecoombes. Arabella Morecoombe,
1780 or '90, married a Wood of Beechdale.
That's how the double name took root.'

This pleasant gossip, never again encroaching
on the forbidden ground, was
willingly prolonged, often reverted to in
the agreeable gentleman's now daily conversations
with the ladies ; and details,
highly satisfactory all, dropped out, from
time to time, of his antecedents. The
noble family of Comyngham  which Mr.
Morecoombe knew by hearsay only 
figured conspicuously in Mrs. Alwyn's
chronicles, perhaps with a touch of too

perceptible unction on their rank, but Mr.
Morecoombe-Wood gallantly lent himself
to the little weakness, though he in nowise
shared it. This was apparent from his
passing mention of a foreign title bestowed
on himself for what he lightly termed a
trifling good turn he had served a certain
German Court diplomatically, a title he, an
unattached man did not care a fig for,
though his friend, Count Blister, was
always urging him to use it. And, by the
way, ' how much he wished he could have
introduced his countrywomen to that friend
of his, but family affairs had summoned
him to Berlin. The Count had not much
leisure, but what he had he enjoyed in
English companionship. They were very
intimate

It appeared so.

One afternoon found Mr. Morecoombe-
Wood studying not only a letter just

received, but the addresses of sundry others
enclosed in the wire-latticed rack at the
entrance of the pension. He was pulling
his moustache and using unparliamentary-expressions
below his breath. At the
sound of a voiture ul of travellers approaching
the steps he vanished upstairs, and at
the dinner-table Leonora's maidenly glance
perceived his usual place occupied by a stout
German paterfamilias, with three blonde
daughters and a weak-looking youth, his
son, around him. In the salon, Madame
Yische gave Mrs. Alwyn a little note, with
the remark, ' Mistake Morecomfood had
been maire sovvj for to go, but he could not
wait vor ze ladies, he was forced vor to
hasten.' And the few lines explained a
sudden request of Count Muster's (by
reason of indisposition) to join him immediately,
to which were added profound
regret at leaving without bidding farewell

to Miss Villiers and Mrs. Alwyn, and
sincere hopes that he might be able to meet
them at Interlaced.

It was there the ladies had spoken of
staying some fortnight hence, and never
went fourteen days more slowly than those
which crept by before they moved thither.
Let one's aim be what it will, fixing intent
desire upon it shuts out all surroundings
else ! So Griessbach was but a damp
nuisance ; Meyringen a dull little hole, the
very Jungfrau no better than a sugar-loaf
in a grocer's window to the imaginations
whose foremost ground was taken up with
a single figure, the well-born, well-dressed,
ingratiating Mr. Morecoombe-Wood !

But at Interlaced he reappeared, and
the slighted Jungfrau in the light of his
advent and a young, romantic moon,
became a thing of beauty and a joy  for
the time being.

More pronounced attentive than ever,
his experience as a traveller became invaluable
to them. He negotiated Mrs. Alwjn's
English bills, counselled their route when
he should be compelled to run off to Vienna
where he had invested capital after which
it behoved him to look, shared their excursions,
and so far progressed in intimacy
that when consulted as to their winter
abode, frankly arbitrated in favour of his
own wishes. To imprison Miss Yilliers in
the Engadine would be barbarous. He
would have advocated Berlin, where Count
Sister would have introduced them to
princes some and  sons ' innumerable, but
then he should be jealous ! It was at Paris
he himself must chiefly reside. There were
what in England we call * boards,' * companies
' he was upon. With the new year
he was bound to attend these. But business,
for which having had no need, he.

with a shrug, had no taste, would take a
different aspect if it brought him near Miss
Yilliers  and Mrs. Alwyn. Could they be
persuaded to try Paris ?

They could, and they did.

By mid-October they were installed in a
charming appartement within stone's throw
of the Arc de Triomphe. A few weeks
later Mr. Morecoombe-Wood took up
bachelor residence in a quartier not far off.
A call or two established him as cicerone
to his charming compatriots. Prudent
inquiry on Mrs. Alwyn's part, through her
brother in England, elicited the fact that
this unexceptionable friend's family held
foremost place on the Southern county-roll.
His ever-increasing and ever-acceptable
devotion to Leonora knew thenceforth
neither check nor hindrance. The sun of
the old year bid fair to set in such dazzling
effulgence that Mrs. Alwyn could afford to

forget awhile the humbler fortunes of her
younger child.

But hereon a letter reached her from
Major Villiers, for which she was far from
grateful. For the old officer urged that
Sydney should be restored to her mother's
side once more.

*The plan,' so he wrote, 'you imposed
on Miss Alwyn and named to me of keeping
her past action and present life sui rose
is sure to fall through sooner or later.
Pardon me, my dear sister-in-law, for saying
unasked what I think, but 1 do consider
that release from this social and
domestic interdict would come more gracefully
from yourself than through chance or
other folks' inquisitiveness. I saw Mr.
Drayton not long ago. It was with difficulty
I evaded his close questioning about
Sydney. If it is  as I trust  simply a
question of her maintenance which separates

you, if you scruple to use the means
of one daughter for the support of the
other, will you permit me, out of warm
regard for Sydney, to send you a yearly
remittance which will, I think, cover the
expense of her residing with you ? This
could be strictly between ourselves. It
would gratify me and surely conduce to
your own comfort.'

Mrs. Alwyn long balanced the pros and
cons of this offer. The arrangement
might be private : i.e. nothing now or perhaps
ever need be said to Sydney of the
majors share in it. The conciliation
would look well, would redound to her
credit. The sum offered by the major
would more than defray the cost of
Sydney's living, and that was no mean
consideration, for the hasty retreat from
St. Clairs, the ill-considered purchase, and
angry transfer of The Dale, had diminished

her principal. Mrs. Alwyn appreciated
and pointed out these advantages clearly
to Leonora, but that more-than-ever
elegant damsel made quite a Parisian
moue at the notion of her step-sister's
return, saying,

Sydney's costume will be of the Ark
description, mamma. She may impress
Mr. Morecoombe-Wood with an unfavourable
idea of our connections ; or,' illogically
capping this with a sincerer excuse,
he may take to admiring  preferring
her !'

Not the least likely, dear, foolish child !
It would be my immediate duty to make it
known that she shared only my home, not
your fortune. Mr. Morecoombe-Wood was
saying only the other day it was a miserable
thing for a woman to marry without
dot. It placed her at a disadvantage from
the outset. I entirely agreed with him,

VOL. III. E

and said T should never permit my child
to enter any family undowered. Sydney
may come, for all that. He would never
think of her now.'

He ' never had the opportunity.

A note, most coldly-worded, about which
hung the odour of yet unpardoned offence,
offered Sydney the option of return.
Promptly came reply in shape of a refusal.
Grateful (more than there was need for,
had the writer known all), anxiously
thankful for these late-flung crumbs of
maternal solicitude, but still refusal :
 Mainly,' said Sydney's letter, ' because
of something fresh I have lately learnt,
mother, which seems to bid me stay at
Wynstone, as the place above all others
where I ought to go on working. I will
tell you in my next exactly what I mean
by this, if you will give me leave.'

But I shall not give her leave !' cried



Mrs. AlwjD, quite ready to take affront at
her overtures being declined, and possibly
having dim suspicion of the reason. ' I
require no explanation of what I understand
only too well. It's the old story.
Her will against my wish, and we very
well know which always wins !'

So kind Major Yilliers's scheme came to
naught, and every thought of the little
Parisian menage now centred on seeing
beautiful Leonora become Mrs.  or, as
Continental society surely would say,
' Madame la Baronne Morecoombe-
Wood !'

tUittKSUY OF !LLir*OI

e2

CHAPTER III

Sydney's new way to pay old debts.

It is to be hoped a better reason than the
bald one imputed by her mother will be
found for Sydney's refusal to rejoin Mrs.
Alwyn by those who have followed her
fortunes thus far.

For truly that chapter of the Hursts'
history disclosed on New Year's Eve carried
her with one great gust clean out of
the becalmed haven of Wynstone's light
duties, once more into the deep waters of
indebtedness, which this time appeared
unfathomable  past all her power of paying
off.

Long after her employer had concluded
her plaintive good-night, and, indeed, long
after the agitated lady was asleep, and
dreaming that Mr. Babbington brought
three little daughters and shut them up in
her dining-room, declaring she must take
care of them for he could not, Sydney still
sat wide awake, seeking up and down
among her senses, for how she could fulfil
the Tantalus task she had undertaken.
For a long while the search was entirely
unproductive, and she did so smart under
the bonds of her incapacity, that she was
presently fain to lay her head upon her
arms and christen the years first hours
with a flood of hopeless tears.

But hopelessness and Sydney were
never for long allies. The courage last
summer's disasters had failed to quench
mounted with this new occasion. Quickly
she rose ; noiselessly paced the room,

thinking. Money she had none wherewith
to span the terrible rift in two lives, caused
by credulous trust in her father's counsel ;
but youth, health, vigour, were hers.
These she would spend uustintingly  ah,
she would pour them out !  in aiding
endurance of what was past cure. She
had been wondering of late how long this
service of hers would last. Now she knew.
As long as she lived. Only at the very
end should those she meant to dedicate her
days to find it was John Alwyn's daughter
who had been labouring to win back
sufferance for the name now stigmatised
as the source of all their troubles. Her
sensitiveness was too acute to let her weigh
aright the responsibility accredited to her
father. Her generous pity, maybe, cast a
glamour of romance over Miss Jean's story.
But there was not a spark of romance,
only pure, brave womanliness, without one

jot or tittle of other feeling, in the resolve
she reached. Before a little locked-up
cabinet she stopped. Took forth a faded
likeness, and stroked it tenderly. Her
eyes beautiful and steadfast as twin stars,
shone out through the last of her tears.
The warm colour stole back to her white
cheeks. Her breath came fast. The wind
outside was sobbing and wailing round the
house. The rush of the river sang an
angry second. Anon she had felt as
storm-tossed as they. But now on her
heart there fell a wonderful and childlike
calm. Casting the incubus of her care
upon a Power every day taught the better
to trust, she stood at her window with
clasped hands, looked forth into the darkness
promising that invisible presence
which was her life's companion, ' With the
best I have, the very best, I will make
them amends. Father !' And so met the
New Year fearlessly.

The next mornings brought her mother's
letter. Chill though it was, refusal of its
offer cost Sydney no light pang. The old
hungering for affection asserted itself
strongly at the first note of favour. But
chained afresh, as now she found herself,
not a hundredfold more temptation than
Mrs. Alwyn's measured lines held out,
would have taken her from Wynstone.
Definitely her  no ' was written and
despatched. The cause of that ' no ' she
dared not add without permission, well
knowing it would only reopen the old
bitter dispute, and, as this permission
never came, under Mrs. Alwyn's perverse
judgment she had to lie till time, the great
redresser of many wrongs, removed the
unmerited ban.

One confidant she had, Jacob Cheene.

To him she wrote what she suspected
was no news, and back came the candid

admission that he had known throughout
who her employers were.

But while I heard you were peaceful at
Capel Moor, with nothing to complain of,
I thought my knowledge best kept to myself.
The Hursts are kindly by breeding,
and come of honourable stock. There
were Hursts, gentlefolks, at Stillcote,
generations before your own name was
transplanted there from the Midlands,
Miss Sydney. The father of these two
was one of that quartet who used to meet
at Stuartss every week. I knew that in
their home you might be better done by
than among richer and prouder people ;
and 1 thought that if ever this which you
have just heard did reach your ears, you
could come straight to me, if that course
seemed best to you. It never entered my
calculations you should take it so hard.'

Thus Jacob answered her, and urged,

with even-handed shrewdness and liveliest
regard for his old master's daughter, that
she might with a clear conscience hold
herself exonerated as her father's vicar,
from every vestige of blame in this loss of
the Hursts. What Mr. Alwyn failed to
forsee for himself, how could he foretell
for others ? No professional man would
dare to give advice if his actions were to
be thus after weighed. Miss Hurst had
coloured her tale too highly. Miss
Sydney had magnified the imputation ; bad
accepted it too readily. She must let him
who valued his master's honour second to
none but herself, arbitrate for her now.
She must give up Wynstone, since she had
learnt this, and come to him. He would
so gladly have her if his home was not
beneath her sharing. But he was getting
better off  a little. All she had done last
summer had set his narrow income free.

For a while it would be plenty for them
both. By-and-by they would see what was
to be done. And when would his dear
Miss Sydney come ?

Never, good old Jacob !' was her silent
verdict ; but there came a haze about her
downcast eyes, and a treacherous tremulousness
about her soft, flexible lips, while
with words loving and gentle as firm, she
penned her answer to the friend her father's
brotherly humanity had purchased for her
fifty years before.

Miss Hurst was watching her with side
glances ; Sydney's reticence on matters
personal was rather a sore point. That
weekly letter always scented out whether
written upstairs or downstairs, or in my
lady's chamber, was a mystery she was
burning to dissect. Now the writer's
scarcely conceivable emotion suggested
its tendency as the one which to Mis

Jean's then state of mind appeared likeliest.

H  m !' she said, stopping to regard
Sydney sentimentally, with a knitting-pin
pressed meditatively to her cheek, ' No
bad news, I hope, Miss Grey?'

No, oh ! no indeed,' said Sydney,
betrayed into disclaiming eagerness, ' it is
only that some one is very good to me.'

1 see,' returned Miss Jean ; * very
satisfactory.' Then she felt compelled to
put forward another modest feeler. ' Your
friend, or friends, if the same you went
last autumn to visit, would be quite free
to return the compliment to you here any
day, if you wished it, for a few hours, I'm
sure.'

Sydney, at this, knowing that Jacob, byname
and person too, would surely be recognised,
could only falter thanks, confused
and blushing. Here-out Miss Hurst drew
her own inference.

Ah !' said she, ' I shouldn't be surprised
if your correspondent would rather entice
you away than come here to see you. I
suspect this person, who is so good to you,
is not altogether disinterested !'

Sydney fell headlong into the neat little
pitfall.

Indeed he is disinterested,' she cried,

though he does want me to go ' then

stopped with a sudden consciousness that
she was saying far too much, and ended,
reddening more vividly than ever,  but T
am not going to be so selfish  I mean it
would be wrong to take advantage  oh ! I
mean. Miss Hurst, I am intending to stay
here till '

Till circumstances fetch you elsewhere !'
finished Miss Jean, drily : and, never
imagining the interpretation put upon this
interlude, Sydney finished her letter and
hastened off to post it.

Herself, as usual !' cogitated Miss
Hurst, sola, for her brother was out on
one of his riverside rambles. ' She never
trusts anyone else to do that. I am confident
she has had some difference with her
family about marrying. It wouldn't hurt
her to be more open with me. I might
advise her for her good. But I suppose
her good might mean leaving us, so perhaps
things are best as they are. I don't
know where I should find another like her.
She seems to leave nothing undone to
please me and Gilbert, though he doesn't
notice it as I do. The last few days she
has been more anxious than ever. Now I
come to think of it, she really was quite
affected by all I told her the other night.
Very likely, though she doesn't talk much,
she feels for us.'

Very likely she did !

That missive to Jacob nailed her colours

to the mast. Now she turned all her
invention into the channel where henceforth
it had to flow. Between the bounds
of Miss Jean's elaborate domesticity and
Mr. Hurst's more cultivated requirements,
she must mete out what ability she had.
Spare money for one : translate life into
light for the other ; and, while ransacking
her faculties for means to these ends,
fortuitous chance supplied them.

A sunny January morning exhibited
with cruel distinctness the faded state of
the drawing-room curtains. Miss Jean,
apologising for the contrivance (in which
Sydney's fingers helped) of turning sides
into middle, lamented that the house, to
look as it ought, wanted all the surplus of
its owner's income : * whereas mine,' she
sighed, ' must go for Gilbert. I shall get
shabbier and shabbier, but there is no help
for it. Gilbert can do nothing, of course.

If there were any gentlemanly work he
could learn, and carry on in the back room,
to bring in a pound a week, it would be
something. But there isn't, so I give up
hoping anything of the sort.'

What she gave up Sydney seized on.

Through an hour of diligent stitching
the plan matured : with next day's reading
it was initiated, more boldly than it
would have been somewhat earlier. For
at last some clue seemed to be found to
Mr. Hurst's strange manner. His sister
had expatiated on Mrs. Preece's persisting
in shaking hands with him, and  pitying
him as if he had been a baby, both of
which naturally upset him.' Stow Sydney
remembered sinning in this respect. On
a certain September evening she had taken
his hand unasked, and, like as not, let her
voice tell the pity she was feeling. Since
then, assuredly, he had treated her differently,

for wliicli he was not to be judged as
more fortunate men. Having erred once,
in this direction, she would do so no more.
Withholding every sign of sympathy,
whatever she felt, she would win him
back to their old footing, and so set her
scheme afloat. The book placed for her
next morning she asked leave to change.

Might they read one they had gone
through last autumn? Mr. Hurst had
said it was worth a second study.'

Surprised, but shirking discussion, as
usual now  though Sydney's voice was
wondrous winning as she made the petition
 he agreed to her wish. The book
was on Philology. Presently came the
paragraph Sydney had craftily aimed at.

You said before, Mr. Hurst, you had a
paper on this very point among your
manuscripts.'

'Yes,' unwillingly, ' I think I have.'

VOL. III. F

I hoped, perhaps, you would let me see
it. This is too specialised for me to
understand it.'

My few remarks, Miss Grey, were simply
local, and mixed up with other subjects.
They would not repay hunting out.
Something by Seat on the shelf there
would answer your purpose better.'

This was next door to rebuff, but
Sydney, strong in her purpose, was not
going to give way.

Seat is quite beyond me she said,
cheerfully saddling herself with stupidity,
I understand your explanations so much
more easily ; but I am afraid that is such a
poor compliment, that you are sure to
refuse them to me now.'

If you really prefer them, they are at
your service, Miss Grey.'

Half fearing from his constraint she
had gone too far, Sydney unearthed the

manuscript from the writing-table drawer,
read out admirably its clear and clever
pages, and then, making the most of Mr.
Hurst's visible gratification at her grasp
of his style and subject, preferred another
request.

May I just look at the rest of the
manuscripts here, Mr. Hurst.'

If you choose. But they are not
worth it. Miss Grey ; they are incomplete.'

Thank you for letting me, though.
"Churches of a West County," "The
Ever's Banks," "Before the Saxons."
Why, there must be the making of a splendid
book here, Mr. Hurst.'

He smiled at last.

'A book? Yes. "Splendid?" I'm
afraid not. But whether or not, there can
be no telling now,' sighing.

 No telling? Why?'

'Why?' he reiterated, as though the

f2

question were cruel. * Why, because as I
said, those papers are incomplete, and I
have no power to shape them into what
they should be. They are sketches : the
frame-work only of chapters. What
might have been a book, must stand like a
half-built, deserted house, Miss Grey.
Wind and rain devour one. Fire will probably
devour the other.'

It has no reason to,' said Sydney.
Why should the building not go on ?'

With a blind craftsman !' he exclaimed.
With a blind master, if you please

said she, hardening her voice ; ' but a day
labourer under orders, who can see.
Please, Mr. Hurst,' suddenly changing to
frank and fearless persuasion, ' if I am
not too dull or too illiterate, will you let
me try and put your volume together ? Of
course only the mechanical part. You
would direct every line.'

For nearly a minute Mr. Hurst was
silent, his colour rising. Poor Sydney
was luring him into something beyond his
old beloved world of letters. He had
nearly steeled himself to wise refusal,
when by way of strengthening her plea,
she said : 

Imagine how delighted Miss Jean
would be, how proud, if your book brought
only a little fortune in.'

Ah, that she would !' he said, with
instant acquiescence, not entirely glad.
but,' slowly, *I should not dare  I have
no right to appropriate your time, your
thought, in this way. , I am most grateful,
but it cannot be done.'

You think I am not able to do my share.
You dislike the idea yourself,' she said, not
seeking to hide her disappointment.

The idea I should revel in, other things
being equal. Your share would be better

done than mine. Nevertheless, the project
won't do

Speaking, he had drawn nearer than
usual now-a-days. His quick hearing
caught the inarticulate sound of vexation,
with which Sydney turned away.

Then,' she said, ' I can do nothing for
you but read  read  read  for ever.'

Read  for ever !' he repeated, gravely.
Ah, I suspected it must grow wearisome.
You tire of it sometimes.'

With a flash of womanly wit she saw a
chance of gaining the end she was positive
he desired, despite his words.

Yes,' she declared, her eyes sparkling,
I tire sometimes : a little. A change of
work would be more pleasure than I can
tell. Don't you think the book might be
tried ?'

Through another brief pause Gilbert
Hurst pondered again.

Entrenched in blindness, poverty, dependence,
he must be safe. This plan
might ease Jean. If so, he should be a
brute to reject it. Deliberating, to his
most difficult prudence he was lost.

Then suppose we try it,' he said, and
Sydney so exulted she was nigh committing
another breach of discipline, and giving
him her hand again to seal the
bargain.

Mr. Hurst had not overrated her share
of the new task. With hunting up notes,
shaping rough outlines, sifting, sorting,
accepting, rejecting, parting fact from
fiction, and making fair copies of each
finished page, ' Round about my County,'
drew out and kept in full play more power
than ever Sydney suspected she possessed.
More than that. It lit up the latent
enthusiasm of her nature, repressed at
home through all her opening girlhood.

And this enthusiasm, though an invaluable
adjunct in the production of the book, was,
like many another powerful weapon, dangerous
for every-day use.

Unavoidably, constant comparison of
thought brought the workers into closer
communion even outside their mutual
occupation, and Sydney discovered that
without offending she could make Mr.
Hurst share the pleasant relaxation of her
own brain when their afternoon quantum
was done.

Tired one February day when sunset
warned them to leave off, she was fairly
glad to look lazily out on the golden-tipped
hills, and amuse her mind with nothing
more consequential than a chattering
troop of sparrows at the end of the garden.
Bobbing their brown heads about, pluming
their dapper little dun-coloured bodies,
saying their prayers, or squabbling, or

telling the day's adventures ; such a fussy
and incessant riot the feathered gossips
kept going, that sight and sound of them
set Sydney laughing.

'What is it, Miss Grey?' Mr. Hurst
asked from his end of the room.

Oh ! I beg your pardon she answered,
feeling guilty to be amused at what he was
cut off from. * It's nothing but a comical
party of sparrows.'

Why beg my pardon,' he said, getting
np and coming to the window himself;
Miss Jean was receiving a caller in the
drawing-room : ' I used to think sparrows
fascinating fellows. Are they on that
tallest larch.'

Yes,' beginning to enjoy them again,
they are arranging their evening toilette.'

Just as they used to do ! Many ?'

Ten, fifteen, thirty  oh ! I can't count.
They are making the boughs swing. They

look SO droll. The light is so clear. And
their little fluffy figures against the sky.
Oh !' as the flutter of fifty pairs of wings
filled the air,  they are frightened ; they
are gone ! No, here they come back ; they
are settling again. And,' excitedly, * one
has a long straw in his beak. Three others
are trying to pull it away. But,' breaking
off once more, ' what nonsense this must
sound to you, Mr. Hurst 1'

 Go on : go on he said, ' it sounds like
a song I have been wanting to hear forages.'


Ah! another has come to help him;
and the thieves are defeated. And off he
goes with his straw to his nest under the
eaves.'

Happy little rascal,' said Mr. Hurst,
with first a laugh and then a sigh, ' Thank
you, Miss Grey, for a glimpse of the outer
world again.'

And after that Sydney fell into the habit
of chronicling for his benefit such common
things as spring skies, or the first coming
of the primroses, or the unfurling of the
hart-tongue's tight packed brown-fringed
fronds, and all such insignificant minutiae
as his sister had stowed carefully out of
hearing. The which, and her brother's
growing enjoyment of the same might not
exactly have secured Miss Hurst's approbation,
but about that time the good
spinster's attention was diverted from its
heretofore chief object, and settled on a
more absorbing one  herself !

CHAPTER lY.

CONTAINS A Tender Revival.

Perhaps, though, that assertion is hardly
fair. Certainly, the lady in question
would have repudiated the imputation.
It was not exclusively on herself Miss
Jean's interests centred, but also on other
individuals, who, as already heralded,
appeared early in the year at Capel Moor,
and who, with their environments, became
of immediate and fast-growing importance
to the mistress of Wynstone.

The first fortnight in January had been
a time of restlessness and ill-concealed

excitement to Miss Hurst. She was
exceedingly active, and very fidgety ;
found a multitude of small requirements
about the house, made a variety of small
changes, brought out of seclusion a
quantity of her late cousin Miss Hammond's
choicest possessions, hitherto stowed
away for high day and holiday use, and
altogether rejuvenated her little establishment
to an amazing extent. Another
alteration, once pronounced impossible,
suddenly became feasible.

Gilbert dear, as the days get longer I
have been thinking we will return to old
habits and dine at seven said his mistress,
making the announcement as though it
really was, what she possibly deluded herself
into imagining, the outcome of special
deliberation on his behalf. ' You seem to
feel the evenings long. Oh! don't say
**no," because Tve observed it, and you

can't deceive me ! I am sure you walk
miles round that garden between seven
and nine, to pass the time away, of course,
and that shows you feel dull. Now, dinner
will make a nice long break, and you
must be sociable enough to stop indoors
afterwards and talk to me and Miss Grey.
The servants will have to be trained, of
course, but I will undertake that. I can't
have you growing gloomy and eccentric,
you know. That would never do !' And
having thus ingeniously regained the more
correct hour for their repast, Miss Jean
took another new departure in the matter
of personal appearance.

Hitherto her wardrobe had seemed
chiefly maintained out of Cousin Priscilla's
excellent but antiquated stock, and if
alteration in the fashion of the same involved
cutting to waste, then the garment
would be worn in its original kindness

or amplitude rather than infringe
Miss Jean's rigid law of economy. Hence
ensued such costume as would have driven
Leonora Villiers into hysterics, and required
some schooling for even Sydney to
look upon without a smile.

But now a revolution of modes took
place. A dressmaker came up from the
village and stitched a whole week through
in one of the attics. Miss Hurst was
perpetually vanishing to be fitted ; continually
consulting Sydney as to shades
and shapes ; and rehabilitated by this conclave
of industry and taste, presented
soon an improved appearance, which
she sheepishly apologised for by a
series of circumlocutory excuses, in the
midst of which lay the one small transforming
grain of truth.

I ought to have seen to all this before
you came. Miss Grey, but I was out of

spirits ; Gilbert bad worn me very mucby
not that I complain of bim, bat I was getting
fagged with bim. But as the year
turns, why, one likes to brighten up. And
when one's rooms look fresh, one has to
polish up one's clothes to match. Not that
any polishing will make me young again.
Still I don't want to look quite the old
woman, when  when  on Sunday morning
! You will hear Mr. Babbington then.
Miss Grey. Oh, dear, I wish I were
cleverer at trimming bonnets.'

This speech was delivered while Miss
Trotter, the rustic modiste, was downstairs
dining, and Miss Hurst was inspecting
sundry boxes of mixed millinery with the
aim of producing a new head ornamentation
for the next Sabbath. Her achievements
in this way were rather terrible.
All the finery collected by the late Miss
Hammond for many years danced a sort of

country dance with Miss Hurst's treasures
of the same date, changing partners in
shifting positions, limp plumes now hiding
rusty lace, presentable lace coquettishly
concealing quashed flowers, aud the last of
the careful lady's efforts always outshone
its predecessor in ugliness. Now she eyed
the conglomeration of smartness ruefully,
saying with dejection,

Having such good things by mo I
should not be justified in buying anything
new. Especially when, as I said to Gilbert
this morning, I have not paid for his last
suit yet. But how to contrive anything
becoming out of these odds and ends, I
know no more than an infant in arms.
Should you think. Miss Grey, this would
do ?' poising on an ancient speckled shape
a bunch of violet velvet, red poppies, and
golden oats (flowers out o season, snowdrops
in October, blush roses in De-vol.

III. G

member, had a fascination for Miss Jean).
N-o,' said Sydney ; then at the ejaculation
of disappointment, ' I wonder she
ventured to add, ' if I could do it for you.
Ah, I have a sister in Paris who could put
it together beautifully.'

sin Paris?' exclaimed Miss Jean, on the
qui vive for scraps of Sydney's history.
Living there ?'

Only travelling with my mother. But,'
quietly barring further questions, ' may I
try the bonnet for you ? What dress do
you wear it with !'

 The maroon j I thought green satin
with some of the dangling things off Cousin
Priscilla's best cap would look well.'

Sydney shook her head. ' It must be
black.'

'- With these poppies then ?'
No. Nothing but,' critically, ' a buckle
or two.'

Not even these dear '  sentimentally 
 dear little forget-me-nots T

Not even them. Let me do it as I like.
Then come and see if you approve.'

And, remembering why and for whom
she worked, Sydney used an hour to such
effect that Miss Hurst returned to find,
elated, ' a bonnet that actually might have
come from a shop ! So now,' with incautious
gratitude,  1 shall be easy about how
I look on Sunday. But, Miss Grey, I hope
you have said nothing to my brother about
who comes then.'

Nothing. I should never think of
naming what you spoke of in such a
manner.'

Of course not. I beg your pardon for
asking. But there is a little nervousness
about it. I shan't get over it till we have
met as  as  as middle-aged people and
strangers to  to everything we used to

g2

think of. I shall put off naming  him 
to my brother as long as I can. It is sure
to reopen that miserable time  those
wretched memories.'

This hit Sydney, robbing Miss Jean's
ostentatious pathos of its almost drollery.
She, too, anticipated Sunday sympathetically.
Was pleased when Miss Jean went
to church very subdued, looking so much
her best, that country lasses in their pews
nudged each other to mark the change.
Felt the little jump her companion gave
when the stranger's voice first sounded.
Almost shared the wistful curiosity with
which the Reverend Horatius Babbington's
first love stole glances at his two pale-faced,
flaxen-haired little girls, perched on
hassocks in the rectory pew. And knowing
instinctively the agitated lady's silence
would last no longer than the end of
service, hastened forward, leaving brother

:and sister to walk home together. Then
said Miss Jean, clutching at Gilbert's
arm,

'Oh, what  what did you think of that
sermon? A little different from Mr.
Preece's, was it not ?'

Much longer said Mr. Hurst, unexcited
enough.

Longer ! Surely not. But I wasn't
meaning that. Oh, Gilbert, don't you
know who it was? I could have told at
the first word. You've not forgotten 
Horatius Babbington 1'

Babbington !' he repeated, voice and
manner softened instantly, ' why, Jean
dear, my poor old Jean, how will you like
this?'

Oh, well enough,' she answered,
swallowing obtrusive gurgling of anything
but mirth. ' I can bear it. Especially
for you. You are quite right. I am

only '' old " Jean. And your Jean. And
only dear to you. And that's all  all I
want to be. The past won't affect me the
least. For I know well enough there is
no such thing as marrying for me, anymore
than for you. No home for me
except with you, any more than there's a
home for you except with me. You won't
object to my being kind to those poor little
children. But don't be concerned for me,
Gilbert. I can meet Mr. Babbington as
indifferently as any lady should.'

Spite of which declaration. Miss Hurst
shed many tears at home over the miniature
of a thin and interesting young
divine, with wavy hair and beardless face,
and a seraphic smile. The slimness was
gone, for the reverend gentleman was
inclined to corpulence, and the wavy forelock
was swallowed up in advancing baldness.
But Miss Jean's fidelity could

stand the shock of such mere physical
change. To her Horatius Babbington was
idealised as the winner of her young
affections. His smile was still seraphic.
Himself still, more than other men, most
interesting.

In time the new-come clergyman made
his first call, behaving with soberest
propriety, though Sydney secretly resented
his inquisitive inspection of herself, and
still more his bluntness of perception in
dragging from Mr. Hurst every detail of
first failing, and then fully lost sight.
That half hour's visit stamped him on her
mind as bland, opinionated, amiable domestically,
more widely selfish, theologically
effusive, mentally beneath the standard at
which he rated himself ; and her first impression
was correct.

But Miss Hurst saw in him no flau.
Through the visit she bore herself with

great discretion, but a stray remark as the
guest was leaving, ' Surely that little
table used to stand in the bow window of
the Stillcote drawing-room ?* threw her off
her balance. That bow window was a
spot dear in the heyday of her hopes. Mr.
Babbington must have been dull of comprehension
if in her confusion he had not
seen that old ties were fresh in her
memory. Miss Jean's perturbation flattered
him. He was not dull. He returned
to his lodgings and his children thoughtful
and very satisfied.

Inevitably then the curate-in-charge
grew intimate at Wynstone. Miss Hurst,
by upbringing and nature, enjoyed regulating
parish matters. Now her assistance
was constantly claimed for them. At the
outset Gilbert Hurst demurred at the
weekly call, offered ostensibly to furnish
him with masculine companionship. 'Don't

have Mr. Barrington on my account,
Jean,' he said, ' it can't be pleasant to you,
and we never knew each other much.'
But Jean turned restive at this, replying,
i'm afraid, Gilbert, you would like him
better if he were a college friend, or that
tutor you used to make so much of. I
know he is only an ordinary, hard-working
man, but poor papa was much attached to
him, and for that reason I should have
thought you would not grudge him civility.'
And after that her brother could but
make the best of the gentleman's society,
even when it extended regularly over
Thursday's dinner-hour.

Before long Mr. Babbington had communicated
to Miss Hurst much of his
personal career since they two parted,
and Sydney  not Mr. Hurst, she noticed,
was made further recipient of these particulars.


He was so unsettled, poor man, after
he left Stillcote,' Miss Jean said, evidently
deeply gratified at the fact. ' He tried
two chaplaincies abroad, but then he felt
he must fling himself into something engrossing,
or So he went to Palestine.
Of course, he overworked himself.
He couldn't help it in the state he was.
He had a wretched fever, and the consol's
family took the greatest care of him.
They had found out his value. One
daughter, an excellent creature no doubt,
devoted herself to him. He was lonely,
weak, always so impressionable to kindness.
It was natural, indeed, necessary,
since the poor thing got so attached to
him, for him to marry her. I should
never blame him, never ! But I scarce-lj
think she was fit to be a clergyman's wife.
He mourns for her, oh, most sincerely ;
but human grief is short-sighted. After

all it may be for the best that poor Mrs.
Babbington, with her desire for English
society, and a larger income, was taken.'

Apparently poor Mr. Babbington grew
to look on his bereavement in this light.
A great unanimity of sentiment became
more and more visible between him and
the choice of his youth. His children,
two plain, loquacious little maidens, and a
small shy boy, were perpetually trotting
to Wynstone with messages  '' Ought the
deaf widow, named Welkin, to have bread
given her every week ?'  Please, papa
wanted to know, was there anyone in the
place who could knit little Horry some
socks ?' and so forth ; and Miss Jean's
word on these matters became law. Belle
and Flossy would enter now without knock
or ring, so much at home they grew with
their papa's kind friend. Horry soon
learnt to climb her knee, demanding cake

at all hours. No matter when they came,
Miss Hurst found them no interruption,
but ever turned their visit to some such
charitable account as the mending of
skirts, or stitching buttons on boots, or
some neglected office of which the motherless
trio stood much in need. All which
was well enough, and only diverted from
her brother part of the luke-warm attention
she had ever bestowed on his
greatest pleasures. But another phase of
Mr. Babbington's influence took a less
agreeable form. He himself had ffreat
fondness for probing Mr. Hurst's sentiments
on subjects men are often chary of
dragging into common conversation. Now
Miss Hurst followed suit.

I fear,' she said one day to Sydney,
with the semblance of much anxiety,
Gilbert, while he is after this book he
fancies he can put together, never happens

to speak of  of better things? Never
talks about religion, Miss Grey T

Talks  about  religion !' repeated Sydney,
startled, 'why, no

Ah !' his sister sighed, ' it's a pity.
But he never would. And people bound
together,' with a heavier sigh, ' as we are,
ought to be open as daylight on such an
important point : ought to see through
each other like glass ! But I can't see
through poor Gilbert. Mr. Babbington
was saying, clever as he is, he is too reticent
to be thoroughly satisfactory. Oh ! if he
would only talk, Miss Grey, and tell me
exa-c-t-ly what he feels, how thankful I
should be ! For all he says, you know, he
might be a  a  what is the word ? One
that reminds you of ash-stick or knob-stick,
though it's neither of them precisely.'

Agnostic !' cried Sydney, divided between
laughing and indignation. ' Miss

Hurst, you would do well to be angry with
anyone who called your brother that !'
(Only a little while before, wearied herself
by one of Mr. Babbington's copious discourses,
in momentary unguarded petulance
she had wondered to Mr. Hurst why every
service took him so regularly to the little
church. ' For the peace that always lies
within its walls he had answered, and she
cherished the reply, though self-conviction
charged it with unmeant rebuke. This
was the man whose sister was trembling
over his spiritual state !) * Indeed,' she
went on, hotly, you cannot think what
the word means, or never could you hint
at Mr. Hurst's being that !'

Ah ! well, I only hope you may be
right,' returned Miss Jean, slightly abashed,
but dragged two ways as clearly as
ever weak woman was ; ' still, abilities area
great snare ' (a parrot lesson assuredly),

sand we know poor Gilbert has abilities
enough

And thenceforth it became increasingly
evident that what had once been so much
dreaded was developing now into an
accomplished fact.

Some  not thing, but  person had
come between Miss Hurst and her brother ;
and Miss Hurst did not fulfil her threat.
She did not hate this person !

CHAPTER V.

TWO Hearts Stirred TO There INMOST DEPTHS.

Thus a juncture was reached atWynstone
whereat standing still was impossible, for
besides the garrulous little brook of Miss
Jean's fluctuating fortunes, other currents
were sweeping along, gathering silent
force that presently, breaking loose, was
to stir two hearts to their inmost depths.

Those fair spring months were to Gilbert
Hurst a storehouse of unuttered
pains ; of pleasures more unutterable.
To Sydney they brought labour over
which, abandoning all thought of self, she

laid out her every endowment, from
highest to lowest, on behalf of those whom
unworldly honour called her creditors.
Beyond the present she took no thought.
That this present should ever turn and
wound her sorely, she never suspected.
So if Miss Hurst, now absent-minded, now
fussy, wanted her assistance over a dozen
immaterial trifles daily, it was always ready.
She could but give what was needed.
And if on Gilbert Hurst shone out the
rarest, tenderest traits of her nature, why,
that was neither her fault nor design :
only the outcome of his necessity and her
desire to pay him his due in some coin or
other. So, as April smiled over the earth,
Sydney pictured to him who could not watch
the season's gracious footsteps, the lovely
miracle of fresh-clothed woods, from red
brown buds, and peeping crinkled leaflets,
through May's coy bravery of out-spread

VOL. III. H

greeD, to the superb youth of queenly
June; or the exquisite growth of pink-tipped
fir cones, swaying, clustering,
growing on dark-limbed parent boughs ; or
the frolics of a field full of bleating lambs
in the river meadows, whose sunset sports
began with craziest vagaries in the jumping
line and mostly ended with a wild
stampede round their safe hurdled quarters,
and an importunate hurry-scurry to their
mothers' sides. Earth's reawaking had
never had such tales to tell Sydney as now
when she courted all its signs to pleasure
some one else. And to Gilbert Hurst never
had it seemed fuller of happy human
suggestiveness, than when its charms reached
his senses mainly through a voice that
was dearer to him than the singing of the
south wind to the flowers !

But in that fatal knowledge lay much unintelligible
to Sydney. Their book sped

onward towards conclusion, but it was the
amanuensis, not the author, who triumphed
most in its completion.

Only two chapters more !' she cried at
the end of a steady morning's work at
which her own quick perception had been
no mean help. ' Only two ; then finished
and folded, and away into the world it goes !
Are you not glad, Mr. Hurst?'

Why, yes,' he answered, ' how can I be
otherwise ?' But he was not glad enough
to satisfy his questioner. There was a ring
of sadness in his response, and against
sadness, where Mr. Hurst was concerned,
Sydney waged war.

Likely as not he regretted ending that
fixed design which had occupied him so
long. Well, it need not be the last of such
attempts !

We must set to work on some more of
your manuscripts,' she said, cheerily, ' or

H 2

time will seem interminable till an answer
comes back about this. "What may we
beofin next ?'

The  we ' had become natural through
recent months. But now it seemed to
grate on Mr. Hurst. Sydney coloured ashe
answered with reserve,

I have nothing else in a punishable
stage, even by your help, Miss Grey. My
first venture with your assistance must be
my only one.'

 Then all your other notes are quite
beyond me !' (Could he have seen her face,
his coldness must have melted !)  There
seemed so many of the time you were
abroad. 1 thought, I hoped you could
have made volumes from them!'

Those notes are so crude and inexact,'
he returned. * Not all your  kindness and
industry could shape them into readable
form. Nothing short of another visit to

the scenes tbej treat of could do that.
And such a visit I can never make, now.'

Except over his one grateful sentence
Mr. Hurst spoke with extreme steadiness,
bending himself to his bereavement with
the unassuming pathos that always moved
Sydney strangely. But pitying words she
never harassed him with. All she could
-say was,

Oh, how I wish I had read or seen
more ; or were clever, so as to help you
more !'

He moved from the table uneasily.

I felt the sun upon my shoulder just
now. Has it clouded over ? You must
get out for your walk, Miss Grey.' Obediently
she rose to go. ' Stay, though. Will
you lay our papers aside before my sister
comes in ?'

Now she had it! Miss Jean was at the
root of his disclaiming fresh effort. From

the first she had treated his book as a
mere whim, hoping, with faint smiles, it
might repay him, but  with shakes of the
head  implying dismal disbelief in any
such success. A little jealous to begin
with, other more absorbing objects had
made her indifferent to its progress.
Marking this, Sydney had done her utmost
to atone for the lack of sisterly sympathy
in the literary babe by an abundance of
her own. Stow again she must to the fore,
and fill the void.

'Ah,' she said, arranging the loose
sheets, ' Miss Hurst is prudently saving
her praise till she sees this in print. Then
she will be elated enough ! And as for

mer.

Hurst had taken himself to the
window, where, with his back to the room,
he repeated : ' As for you '

Why, I am afraid there will be no

bearing me ! Your copying-clerk will becomes
 obj such an epitome of conceit, you
will repent '

He stopped ber almost roughly.

Don't lose your time. Go for your
walk, Miss Grey !' And, jerking open the
long window himself, went out as tbougb
so sbe read bis action  be was in no
mood to discount success as yet uncertain.

That June morning's work practically
broke up the spring's congenial task. Tbe
final chapters were put together, but fitfully
; Mr. Hurst sometimes pressing forward,
sometimes delaying them. With
spirits so varying, it needed all Sydney's
knowledge of bis hampered position to
account for bis changing humours. But
there was enough for them in the attitude
Miss Jean was assuming.

I did very, very wrong,' this sister
would often deplore to Sydney, wbo easily

discerned some foreign prompting in the
complaint, Ho let my poor brother drop
into a life of ease, or really one might say
laziness ! But it is impossible to look
forward in all things. Now here he is,
without means of getting a living, on my
hands, poor dear fellow. And of course
he naturally by now regards his maintenance
as secure.'

Resentment was seething in Sydney's
bosom. But for recollection of how the
Hursts grew poor it must have overruled.

*I thought,' she said, slowly, 'you told
me once Mr. Hurst so wanted to keep off
burdening you '

Oh, don't use that word, Miss Grey,'
cried Miss Jean, conscience-pricked when
she heard her grievance from another's
tongue.

Well, wanted not to use your money,
then. Wanted to struggle on for himself

ever so humbly. Is that not exactly what
you said? And you would not allow it?
So, should he be blamed now?'

Who wants to blame him, Miss Grey ?
Not I, I'm sure. If anyone is to blame it
is myself for being so short-sighted and so
soft-hearted. I meant to be kind. I
really was unjust. To Gilbert and  to
myself.'

And this last aspect of the situation
seemed continually rankling in Miss Jean's
mind, oozing out in captious grumbling,
constant carping at things as they were,
plaintive repining at things as they could
not be, alternating with fits of affection
for her brother, displayed in hovering
about him with melancholy caresses, desponding
voice, and little sniffs suggestive
of repressed tears.

Ah, Gilbert,' she said to him one evening
 it was Thursday, and the curate had

just taken an excellent dinner at her right
hand,  ' Mr. Babbington has been telling
me of a friend of his who has done so
well as a tutor near Cambridge. I wonder
if you would have been so fortunate.'

Too heavily handicapped, I fear,' returned
Mr. Hurst.

Still, it might have been well to try it

Too late to wish it had been done now,
Jean.'

Ah,' said Mr. Babbington, with a complacent
patronage of all his physical
powers, such as they were, that set Sydney
beating a fractious tattoo upon the floor.
I'm afraid, my dear Hurst, you let that
trial overwhelm you. Frail man is easily
overwhelmed. / know that. Your calamity
of course is of a nature to absolve
you from ordinary criticism ; but it is
deeply regrettable that you did not rise

above it for once and for all. Deeply
regrettable.'

Jean,' said Gilbert Hurst, in a low
voice.  You have not forgotten how
ready I was to do anything on earth to
help myself ! You remember the plan I
had formed. You know why I gave it up.
Does Mr. Babbington imply I am indolent
by choice ?'

Oh, no, Gilbert,' his sister answered, ina
tremor. ' He, Mr. Babbington, only
means, as I mean, that if anything could
have been done perhaps it ought to. Nothing
else. And '  to her guest  ' Gilbert
did want to make the effort : really.
But it could only have been near Oxford,
where Mr. Vaughan, you know, might
have recommended him. But that signified
outlay : and leaving "Wynstone : and
speculation, as it were. And as  as  this

little property was my all, I didn't feel
justified in the risk. But perhaps'  appealing
with mournful, moist eyes  ' perhaps
I was wrong !'

I am quite sure you meant to be right,'
returned the clergyman, with emphasis
very nearly tender, and Gilbert Hurst, a
spasm of overtaxed endurance passing
swiftly over his features, rose from the
table with,

I would give half my useless years
to come if I had had my way, though,
Jean !'

 Hasty, hasty to say that,' rebuked Mr.
Babbington. ' It sounds, my dear fellow,
like one of your rash boyish speeches.
Do you remember how I used to check
you for " hating " so readily ?' (Sydney
felt as though rapidly getting into condition
to be checked for the same fault !)
'That unfortunate Mr. Alwyn, for instance

 forgive me for naming him, Miss
Hurst,'  the lady put up her handkerchief,
 ' I have never forgotten how you
poured your wrath out on his name. He
is dead, I hear. You ' hated" him less,
I trust for Christianity's sake, before he
left this world ?'

'Because I was passionate and headstrong
then, does it follow I must never
alter ?' said Gilbert Hurst, and pushing
aside his chair with, * Jean, you have finished?'
opened the door for the dinner
quartet to disperse.

Shrinks from even friendlvsearchinsrs !'
said Mr. Babbington, joining Miss Hurst
on the still sunny garden path.  More
openness would assuredly do him good, poor
fellow !'

Where it would he had neither folly nor
churlishness to refuse it. Sydney, suddenly
blanched at mention of her father, was

impelled beyond resistance to know
whether Gilbert Hurst counted him yet his
enemy. Following to the orchard gate,
Davis has fastened this awkwardly,' she
said, stooping over the withe-bound latch.
There, I have undone it, Mr. Hurst.
That some one  Mr. Babbington spoke of
did he injure you  past pardon?*

What 'he said, halting instantly, 'do
you rate me so poorly ? No indeed, Miss
Grey, John Alwyn's memory may rest forme.
Long ago I learnt to forgive his
luckless advice as freely as he would have
forgiven my schoolboy rage.' She let him
go by without another word, her spirit
springing with great thankfulness. Mr.
Babbington sauntered to her over the
narrow lawn. His children had come to
fetch papa home. Miss Jean had taken
them indoors to clear the dessert dishes of
sweets, while she mended   so thoughtfully

 Bell's jacket. Looking at Mr.
Hurst in the distance, the clergyman said,
gravely, *Not sociable, our poor friend
yonder, is he? You must find the hours
he exacts of you very trying. Miss Grey ?'

'No, I do not said Sydney, quickly.
 It is never anything but a pleasure to be
useful here at Wynstone.'

Well, Miss Hurst certainly appreciates
your  er  unusual capabilities said Mr.
Washington, most politely. ' She has told
me so. But that dear lady is eminently
conscientious. She sometimes feels a
1-i-tt-le anxious about you, Miss Grey.'

About me !' Sydney flashed such pointblank
interrogation as her companion blinked
under. * Anxious ! Why ? Do I not
satisfy her ?'

Amply. Amply. But, thinking of
others before herself, as she always did,
always does, she fancies her gain may be

your loss. She and T are friends of lone
standing. You will excuse her mentioning
any small difficulty to me, Miss Grey.
As a clergyman, I can perhaps say what
lie scarcely could. If you have family ties
that should supersede these at Wynstone 
don't disregard them : if, as some young
folks have, slight family discords, heal them.
Do not spend at Wynstone time you may
afterwards regret as having withheld
from closer duties.'

This was all very fine, very grandiloquent,
unintelligible, impertinent ! Between
Miss Jean's surmises, and Mr.
Babbington's interference, Sydney felt
bewildered, half insulted. But she curbed
herself with remembering it was not for
her to be angry with Miss Hurst. The
injured are always armed.

I thank you, Mr. Babbington,' she said,
self-possessed by some effort. * I am glad

to remain here. I think I must trust my
own judgment as to no higher duty calling
me away.' And, Flossy running clamorously
out just then, she bowed good
evening to her new mentor, with great
relief.

But the impression of his words was not
so easily got rid of. It filled her with
vague alarm. What could Miss Jean's
hyper-anxiety for herself mean ? What Mr.
Babbington's bland high-mindedness with
her as with Mr. Hurst ? Closer duties did
he hint she should attend to I Why, she
had none. That very morning had brought
news from Paris. Leonora was this very
month to marry an English gentleman :
Suitable,' wrote her delighted mother, * in
every respect. And after the young
people's honeymoon they and she were to
spend the last half of the year in visiting
different European capitals.' So Mrs. Al-vol,

in. I

wyn ' hoped Sydney continued content with
her self-sought position, as Mr. Morecoombe-
Wood could not be expected to open his
circle to her immediately, whatever he
might generously do in the future !'
They, prosperously enjoying life's ease,
would be hardly likely to want her 
ever ? And even Jacob Cheene seemed
glad of late that she had elected to stay at
Capel Moor.

I am getting too old, Miss Sydney,' his
letters ran, ' to tie you to my infirmities,
you are best among younger people;' so
nowhere was she wanted but at Wynstone.
Now if Wynstone, the roof to which she
had rivetted her life, shook her loose

But no ! It was unfair to saddle Miss
Hurst with the one project that would
involve such change. Within that
possibility lay a pain too intolerable to be
faced !

But those June days, warm, luscious
flower-breathing without, within went very
crookedly. The book was ended and sent
away ; less hopefully than it had begun.
Mr. Hurst was resolute in attempting
nothing fresh, but he had lost his old power
of listening placidly to Sydney's reading.
Miss Hurst took to sitting much in the
study; attending her brother officiously,
never chattering in the old inconsequential
fashion, but breathing out sighs like
minute-guns. Mr. Babbington s courtesy
to Gilbert Hurst developed into a peculiar
mixture, brotherly, paternal, pastoral,
neither very happy nor acceptable in any
form, though it was refinement itself compared
with the bearing of a cousin whom
he brought one evening to Wynstone, introducing
him as Mr. Montague Carle,
from Pembrokeshire. This gentleman
announced himself as a thorough practical

iman.

and, on that ground presumably
ignoring the shilly-shallying politeness
which generally adorns social intercourse,
contrived to make everyone on whom he
bestowed his conversation marvellously
uncomfortable.

You've a nice place here, Miss Hurst
he said loudly, before the whole party ;
lucky to drop into it ! Horace told me it
was your own. Pretty piece of property
for a maiden lady ; or a married one :

eh r

Had * Horace,' indiscreetly divulged
much more ! Miss Hurst coloured, fluttered,
and sent such timid glances at her 
brother that the Reverend
Horatius hastened to disembarrass her.
Was not this the time for those flowering
rushes she had promised his children ?
And could he get them now ?' So a move
was made to the river-side, whereupon Mr.

Carle fastened his society on Sydney,
remarking,

You are not a fixture here, Miss Grey,
I think? You see my cousin has told me
the ins and outs of everything. Ah,'
twisting round his active figure and ferret
face for a good look at the house, ' it is a
snug little box. Two, four rooms below ;
five, I suppose, above ; servants' offices ;
bedrooms over them. Nice size for a
small family. Pity it should be wasted
on two, and one no business to be here, as
it were.'

Mr. Babbington had indeed disclosed
the ins and outs of Wynstone ! Sydney
caught her very skirts together from
contact with this man's coat ! Her mouth
curved into inconceivable disgust.

I think I can see some of the rushes
Miss Hurst wants, if you will excuse me,'
she said, and all but ran from him to the

water-edge, though she regretted freeing
him when she saw him pounce on Mr.
Hurst, and heard him start off a conversation
of which the first words, ' 'Pon my
honour, a handsome young lady you've got
there !' were all too many for her.

What followed was equally unpalatable.
Mr. Carle was great on blindness.

I know a thing or two about that,' he
boasted, * for I've a dozen young chaps at
my place by Pembroke, and none of 'em
can see a stroke more than you can.
Gentlemen's sons all. It's a speculation
of mine. I train 'em and teach 'em, and '
jocularly  ' make a pretty penny out of
it. They don't want things first chop, as
if they could see. You understand that.
I haven't sunk much in silver spoons and
smart carpets, I can tell you. Now, I should
say an able-bodied man like you, Mr.
Hurst, would do a deal better picking up

a living in such a place as mine than
hanging on here, making an old maid of
your sister, and being waited on by that
pretty young party that's plucking yellow-flowers
yonder '

Miss Grey Mr. Hurst cried out,
brusquely, * whereabouts are you ?'

By the last willow : getting irises
Sydney's clear voice called back.

Then peremptorily, ' move away. No,
stop. Let me come.' Moving straight asa
dart along the bank he knew every inch
of, till he reached her ; then, ' Never lean
over for flowers and rushes just here he
ordered. * Half a yard from the edge this
is the deepest spot on the bank. A slip
would take you into ten feet of
water '

'And there'd be no getting out of that,
young lady put in officious Mr. Carle.
So just you mind what Mr. Hurst says ;

of course he only tells you what's for
your good.'

He looked very knowingly from one to
the other, but neither face betrayed any
sentiment, except one not flattering to
himself ; indeed, Sydney shrank into such
frigid irresponsiveness that Mr. Montague
Carle was as willing to get away as they
to bid him adieu.

Miss Hurst watched her brother furtively
when the callers were gone and they
three had returned to the drawing-room.

Mr. Carle is an excellent business man
I understand, though he may not be very
polished.' No reply to this from either
listener. ' I hoped you would have chatted
with him longer. For,' moving ornaments
restlessly about, 'it is too dusk to
read. And I am not inclined to walk anymore
 and  but oh, Gilbert, if / find the
evenings long, what must you do ?'

Do you feel them honos, Jean ? You
used not.'

Oh fretfully, * people are not always
alike at all times. How I wish you had
taken to music, as poor papa did, though
to be sure it made him more intimate with
that wretched Mr. Alwyn, and so brought
us no good. Don't say "wretched"?
Well, I think he was, Gilbert. I feel it
more and more. The " 'cello " was papa's
instrument, Miss Grey. He played so well.
When he was young, he was offered two
pounds a night to join an orchestra. Two
pounds a night ! Fancy if my brother
could have earned that !'

Could have earned ! Could have
earned !'

Sydney saw him turn away. The
cuckoo cry was too hard to bear. Some-one
must speak 1

I fancied neither of you care for music

she said.  I have not once heard your
piano looking at the never-opened instrument.


Oh, I like it well enough Miss Hurst
returned, indifferently.  And you used to
profess to be fond of it, Gilbert. But I
fancied you cared nothing for my playing,
so I gave it up. Some  people  used to
like it, but no doubt it sounded poor to
you, Gilbert '

jean!'

So I never even asked Miss Grey, for
fear she might not be more successful than
I was.'

The speech ended with a querulous
choke.

Sydney moved to the instrument in
desperation.

It is so long since I sang, I may offend
you both; but I shall like to touch the
keys again,' she said, and sat down to the

Broadsword, tuneful still, though old.

The room was so still and full of soft
twilight. The very birds outside were
gone to sleep. Nothing seemed to stir
save the ticking of one small timepiece,
the throbbing of these troubled human
hearts. Unbidden except by the tense
necessity of the moment, unprejudiced,
except by its few simple chords, Sydney's
song broke the silence.

0/i, rest in the Lord, Wait ;patiently for
Him.

Commit thy ways unto Him and trust in
Him. And

He shall give thee thy heart's desire.'

She never thought of how to sing it ;
only put into it the formulated imploring
of her own soul : knowing that Gilbert
drew nearer and nearer, mute, not emotionless.


When she ended, poor Miss Jean thanked

her volubly, tears dropping freely down 
but her brother had left the room without
a syllable.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TURN OF A LONG LANE.

If there be truth in the adage, ' Coming
events cast their shadows before them
then the result of Mr. Drayton's well-planned
gift to Dr. Dacie may be taken as
apt example of the same, for it certainly
brought professional luck back to the
Gate House, which seemed prophetic of
better things that followed.

Whether the cob had anything to do
with mending matters, or whether, having
had their turn in the trough of the sea,
they were now to rise on a crest of the

wave again, must remain a moot question,
but just now the outer ring of patients
began to discover that after all they preferred
the old doctor to his younger rival,
whose bills were apt to be as long as his
learned phrases. Moreover, ' Alexander
McMcAndrew, Esq., M.d,' as he preferred
to be addressed, made a grand blunder in
his first visit to Oakleigh Place. Misled
by an inaccuracy of message, he had gone
spanking off thither on the day Mr. Drayton
was at St. Clairs, in delighted anticipation
of physicking through some complicated
disorder the Earl or Countess, or a
Lady daughter at least, building on that
base a vision of county practice that
would turn his dog-cart to a brougham,
his * buttons ' to a full-blown groom ! But
woe to his ambition ! The patient was the
house-keeper. The malady a simple sprain.
Alexander McMcAndrew felt hugely disgusted.

and revealed his feelings. When his back
was turned, * We won't trouble that young
man to come here again !' said the housekeeper,
and the fruit of that affront was a
summons for Dr. Dacie, and Dr. Dacie
only, when a month later an upper housemaid
fell ill with sore throat. ' The Scotch
gentleman don't seem to think us servants
worth troubling for, my lady,' Mrs. Pounce
had reported, and that settled the Scotch
gentleman's business. So what was one
man's poison was another man's meat.
Six servants obligingly took sore throat
one after another. Dr. Dacie attended
them carefully and kindly. Then the
epidemic attacked Lady Gertrude. He
treated her with precisely the same kindly
care, mixed with old-fashioned courtliness,
which pleased immensely. Then he put a
feather in his cap by discovering a mischievous
drain ; established himself as Lord

and Lady ComjDgham's trusted medical
adviser, and by consequence soared into
popularity again throughout the neighbourhood.
Other people besides those at Oakleigh
paid their bills promptly, and Mary
soon picked up lucky-pennies enough to
pay hers.

The doctor found prosperity better medicine
for himself than any in his dispensary.
His wife brightened up like the affectionate
old satellite she was ; and if his
daughter s satisfaction at this new turn of
the wheel had any flaw, she kept it welland
unobtrusively in the domestic background.


It was on one of those last May days
when great perplexities were approaching
at Wynstone, that events not unconnected
with them were in progress at St. Clairs.
At noon ' Brownie ' had just trotted off
with Dr. and Mrs. Dacie, to lunch with an

old acquaintance at a distance. Very
cheerfully the elders had started on their
modest dissipation. Ashamed of herself
for having to make an effort in reflecting
their beaming good-byes, their daughter
turned indoors with the wise determination
not to sit down and give rein to the depression
that overhung her, but rather to
disperse it by some vigorous distraction. A
neatly-labelled phial in the hall gave her
the plea for a six-mile trudge. Her midday
meal the matter for a few minutes
only, she released the factotum to ' Brownie *
and the garden from his errand to Oakleigh
Lodge, undertook herself to deliver
the medicine there, left word where she
was going, and thither set forth in all the
freedom of having no one by to see if she
were looking glad or sorry.

For a moment she had debated over best
or second-best hat, deciding for the latter ;

VOL. III. K

a suspicious haze was coming up with the
wind, and, moreover, as she thought rather
wearily, out of tune with the mild, promises
day, * Nobody cares how T look !' so in
sombre guise altogether off she went, her
mind obstinately playing variations on that
dirge-like theme all the way along by the
broom-girt banks and briar-scented hedgerows.


But, reaching the lodge, she had something
else for a time to think of.

Her knock unheard, she opened the
door, with 'Mrs. And, I have brought
your baby's medicine. May I take word
to my father how the little one is?' and
not only the keeper's wife replied, but
Lady Comyngham came forward too, greeting
Miss Dacie most graciously.

'How kind it was to walk over for that !
Just like her father; so thoughtful. Aud
now Mrs. Rand must keep baby warm, and

do exactly what Dr. Dacie told her, and
Miss Dacie must positively come up to the
house as she was so near, and lunch with
her and the girls ; no one else was at home ;
but she would not hear of her going that
distance back without refreshment.'

Vainly Mary, not at all anxious for the
honour, protested she had lunched. The
Countess would hear no excuse, but, with
good-humoured imperiousness, marched
her reluctant guest up the long drive,
paying her the compliment of making just
such conversation eri route as set her at her
ease.

They were so fond of Doctor Dacie ;
so glad they had a man like him at hand.
She was talking of him to her son
Edward's wife the other day. And, by
the way, had Miss Dacie been to see Mrs.
Edward Duvesne ! No ? Oh, then, when
would she go ?'

To this Mary responded with honest
frankness,

We are not rich, Lady Comyngham ;
we are only nobodies ; I thought it would
look like presumption to call at Oakleigh
rectory. Or, more truly, I never thought
of it at all.'

Then, to oblige me, think of it directly''
said the Countess. ' My daughter-in-law
is a sensible little person, I am getting to
know the people about here better now,
and I very often hear of you in ray travels.
I shall take it as a favour if you will put
Edward's Avise into the ins and outs of her
parish. She will appreciate the kindness
and she will appreciate you !'

Lady Comyngham understood the art of
gratifying. Her daughters were as pleasingly
skilful. Mary soon forgot her win-threaten
hat, and enjoyed first the
splendours of the Oakleigh cancellaria,

and next half-an-hour's rest at the luncheon
served with delicate appointments such as
seldom fell to her lot. Regretfully her
memory was recalling her last hour there,
and Sydney with it, when, clairvoyante as it
seemed. Lady Comyugham asked,

Can you tell me, Miss Dacie, anything
of that charming young friend of yours.
Miss Alwyn. I confess to inquisitiveness
about her. 1 imagine no one can enlighten
me better than you.'

'And I cannot do it at all,' answered
Mary. ' I only hear from her just enough
to know she is not forgetting me.'

Travelling with her mother, I suppose ?'

Oh, no. She is in England.'

'England! What; has not that long
visit her mother said she went on ended

yet?'

Visit,' echoed Mary, ' I thought  ' then
she stopped, colouring confusedly.

The Countess looked at her keenly.

I suspect said she,  that visit was a
myth, to put it civilly. Will you mind
telling me why the child went away at all ?
I am really asking for something beyond
curiosity.'

Mary hesitated.

Sydney hardly gave me a plain reason,
Lady Comyngham. There was, I think,
some  difference  between her and Mrs.
Alwyn. Mamma went over and spoke of
it, and brought away the idea it was about
a  a  marriage.'

But you did not think so ?'

N  !' Mary had to confess. * I
hardly thought it was that exactly.'

And you were right,' exclaimed the
Countess. ' And I am right !' nodding to
her daughters.  Mrs. Alwyn insinuated

the story of an engagement to me ''

(* There was no engagement,' said

Mary), '  and then some fanfaronade
about its breaking off. Now there are
two things that upset families. Matrimony
and money. This was not matrimony. It
was money. Used that pretty Cinderella
as my children called her, because she
was always getting left at home, to tell
you of her money arrangements, Miss
Dacie ?'

Only,' said Mary, naively, ' that she
wished she had more of it ! Till  why,
yes, just before she went. Then she was
so delighted at coming of age, for she was
to have  six thousand pounds, I think, of
her own.'

There 1' cried the Countess, excitedly.
The secret is out ! Avena is told truly.
Miss Dacie, be proud of your friend. She
is worth her weight in gold !' Then, seeing
her hearer greatly bewildered by this
outburst, Lady Corny egham explained how

her daughter's maid had disclosed the
grievous loss of her parents' savings, and
Mrs. Alwyn's insulting reply to their
appeal : stopping Mary's quick ' Sydney
knew nothing of this !' with, ' Of course
not. Or not up to last summer. Then
she must have found it out. Did I not
hear of her going into the Midland
counties  ?'

She went  oh, poor Sydney  to fetch
my mother home from Cheddeley.'

And there probably some chance enlightened
her. How was she when she
came back ?'

Why,' remembering only too accurately,
' changed, Lady Comyngham. I
recollect it all now. And I only saw her
once again. When she bade us good-bye
so strangely.'

Then depend on it there had been
battle royal in the meantime, and the

result was the poor wretches who lost
then' all through Mr. Alwyn's misfortune
got paid at last with his daughter's money.
Miss Dacie, I envy you your friend. I
would go a good deal out of my way to
shake hands with her again !' and the
Countess ended with Lewis's story, transmitted
through Lady Avena, of how the
various sums had been distributed through
a clerk of Mr. Alwyn's.

Jacob Cheene !' cried Mary.

Yes. That was the name. And the
giver of this money would not be known,
though Lewis and others of the repaid list
had put their wits together, and come to
the conclusion it must be the old lawyer's
child. ' And if so,' declared the Countess,
with acrimonious emphasis,  that mother
of hers of course prefers such action kept
in the dark, as she did what led to it.
But, " honour where honour is due," say I.

Once let us be sure about this, and then
trust me to let people know why Miss
Alwyn, at any rate, went away from St.
Glairs !'

Mary's head was fit for no news after
this. From such a source she mioht carry
her tidings to Mr. Yaughan. With him
discuss the right to seek out Sydney's retreat.
So luncheon ended, and all offers
of being driven back gratefully set aside,
she started homeward,  Lady Gertrude
burdening her with choice flowers, Lady
Margaret insisting on lending her an umbrella,
the Countess convoying her through
the park, imparting as they went along
intelligence of her elder son's approaching
marriage to an heiress, of her youngest
daughter's equally satisfactory engagement
:  So,' said the pleased mother,
after the rectory setting the fashion, all
the young people intend to follow it. We

must see you at one wedding, Miss Dacie,
and you shall hear all about the other too,
if you care for such things. Good-bye.'

After such kind farewell Mary should
have gone away mightily elated. But
somehow those anticipated nuptials struck
a weak nerve.

For a space they blotted out even the
intelligence concerning Sydney. ' If she
cared for such things.' Sooner or later
what woman does not ! It was all very
well, having intimacy with these Oakleigh
grandees pressed on her, but the attention
was akin to offering stones when one
badly wants bread ! Why she was so
foolish as to hanker after the unattainable,
and at her discreet age cry like a
baby for the moon, our good doctor's
daughter knew not, but such was her predicament
that afternoon, and before she
had pulled through to more sensible

regions, lo, the moon stood before her !
Her mooD, that is to say ; Mr. Drayton.

He was waiting at a branch of the road,
and at first sight of her advanced with
undisguised pleasure.

I feared I had missed you, Miss Dacie.
Your servant said you were this way. But
I have watched an hour for you.'

For me !' stammered Mary, as he took
her hand, ' I had no idea you were at
St. Clairs.'

Nor was I till noon. Then I left my
bag at the rectory, and came on to you.
For I wanted so to see you.'

Mary remembered why he wanted that
last Michaelmas. Was she going to hear
of more marrying ? Of Sydney's at last ?
She turned her head away and moved
forward, Mr. Drayton keeping pace with
her.

'In fact,' he went on, finding she said

nothing  I came on purpose to see you,
and say  something. Won't you put up
an umbrella? It's raining.'

Thus adjured, Mary unfurled the Oakleigh
tous-cas, small shelter for one, yet Mr.
Drayton begged half.

My shoulders are getting wet,' said he,
will you let me hold that between us ?'
And this being accorded : ' If you will take
my arm,' he added, 'I think we shall get
along better.' And in that compact order
they continued progress, a sheep looking
over the hedge setting Mary blushing.

 Now you have not asked,' said her
companion, ' what my important remark is
to be.'

No. I forgot. What you came for,'
she returned. ' I suppose, Mr. Drayton,
it is about Miss Alwyn.'

It's nothing of the kind. It's about
Miss Dacie.'

Mary's pulse gave a mighty spring.  I
want to tell her  tell you  that I have
prospered amazingly this last year. I was
not sure of my luck last autumn, so I
wouldn't talk of it. Now there is no mistake
about it.'

I am very glad  Mr. Drayton  to hear
of your good fortune.'

Then, if you are, will you go shares
with it? I'm no hand at fine speeches,
but I care not a fig for property if I can't
have you with it. Such as I am, will you
take me ? Yes or no, Mary ?'

To think, oh, to think here was the inaccessible
moon come down and begging to
be received !

Mary was for a minute so dizzy she had
to hold Mr. Drayton's arm quite tight,
which he enjoyed very much indeed. Then
she contrived to let him know what he
desired, with such true womanly gladness

in her nervous sentence, that her escort,
assured no one was in sight, was constrained
to shut out the landscape with that
useful little umbrella, and confirm the
contract without loss of time.

The shower came on so smartly then
they had to shelter under an elm. Elms
were Mary's favourite trees from that day
forth. There Mr. Drayton made an exorbitant
proposal. ' We need not wait as
if we were just out of our teens, Mary
said he. ' Can you be ready to get married
in a fortnight ?'

A fortnight. Oh, no ; no !'

Why not ?'

Because there will be so much to do ;
and  things to buy.'

We can buy them in London. If you
get your bonnets alone, I may not like
them.'

Are you so exacting about fashions ?'

'I am. For example, you must always
have a bonnet like this one ;' examining so
closely Mary had to retreat.

Oh, foolish man ! This is not a bonnet
but a hat, and a very old one !'

Then keep the pattern, for you never
looked better !' Which was true enough.
No Kalydor on earth beats the bloom of
happiness ! ' And now, for fear you should
forget what you've promised, hadn't I
better give you a ring ?'

Richard ! Did you make sure, then T

No, I did not. But I happen to have
one by me that may fit.' And out came
the identical diamond that Mary had disposed
of nine months previously, following
on which so much more had to be said
that, when he took out a watch she had
also seen before, time had fleeted so fast
they had to set off for the Gate House in
good earnest. Then Mary began to get

in a tremor. What would Lier father say ?
What would her mother do without her ?
And  with a remorseful throb  what
would Sydney Alwyn think? Would she
mind this ?

Mind it ? Only be too glad,' Mr. Drayton
assured her ; * Miss Alwyn knew what I
was after all through. I was in hopes what
was bringing me good luck might be doing
the same by her. But I was out of my
reckoning there. You can't understand
me, Mary ? And you have something to
tell me about her? Well, I must tell a
long tale to the doctor to-night, of how I
have means enough to come stealing his
daughter and make all the amends money
can for the theft ; so then if you sit by me
and listen obediently, you'll hear all about
everything, Miss Alwyn included, and
we'll compare notes, and by-and-by you
and I will go together and find her.'

VOL. III. L

And that wondrous ' you and I,' the charmed
duality, which, from Adam and Eve's
days, is ever making new Eden on this
earth, absorbed them both till the doctor
and his wife came back to be enlightened,
rejoiced, aggrieved, over Mary's confessions
and Mr. Drayton's demands.

The marrying in a fortnight could
by no means be agreed to, but the suitor,
backed by the rector, pleaded so well, a
month's delay only was at last compounded
for.

And some of these days I shall use for
an odd purpose,' said Richard Drayton,
when he and Mary next day went to stroll
in the garden for ten minutes and stayed
three hours, ' for, to be honest with you, I
have to clear my character before you
marry me. A rascal whom I worked within
a Brazilian mine decamped and left me
under a cloud with the owners. It cost

heaps of time and half my earnings to set
myself straight with them, but 1 did it.
Still this scamp is at large and might turnup
when least expected, to blacken me
again. I've got a hold on him now by
accident, and I mean to track him and
make him recant. You'll let me &tsij here
a week ? Then Til start after this business.
And then come back for you as long before
the twenty-seventh as the rector will have
me. Oh, and do you mind where we go
after we've bought bonnets for a week in
London ?' Mary, with her pretty blushes,
had not a wish on the subject : ' Then you
shall come and see someone I will tell you
of between now and then. I'll send him a
line beforehand, but you shall not be
announced till I take you with me and say*'
Here, Hurst, old fellow, I've brought my
wife to call on you !" '

CHAPTER Il

WAITING.

For a few days after the uneasy evening
last recorded at Wynstone, the small
household fell into what was less a calm
than a lull, too full of watchfulness to be
real rest.

The ending of his book maybe released
Mr. Hurst's attention for another subject
maturing under his sister's roof. Her rapid
flights from downright crabbedness to unexpected
complaisance, from spasmodic
garrulity to silence maintained to the verge
of gloom, filled him with strange thoughts,

fears perhaps, but such as, side by side
with others in his breast, drove him
into reserved yet most expressive anxiety
of waiting.

Waiting. And that was precisely the
spirit that possessed Sydney too. A mental
unsettlement, such as matches the
physical disturbance, which in the heavy
haze of sultry noon prophesies ' there must
be tempest before night.' An expectancy,
whether of hope or dread, she knew not.
She too waited, and like Mr. Hurst, turned
intuitively to Miss Jean as the mainspring
of her next move, be it what it might.

For nigh ten days this lady was, as we
have said, pronounced odd and out of
sorts. Her clerical friend during that
time gave them less of his company than
heretofore. When he did appear there was
a hesitancy in his manner of approaching
his hostess, a studied effort to propitiate

her brother, which Sydney would have
preferred to his former demeanour, had it
not roused suspicion of something it made
her angry with Miss Jean to think of.

But then she, last of any, had right to
be angry on that score. Sydney tamed
her temper with that reflection pretty
constantly, and exorcised fault-finding by
setting herself to much about the house
neglected by Miss Hurst in this disorganised
interval.

She put the study shelves in order
among other things, re-arranging the
volumes more by sequence of subject than
by size and shape, so that Mr. Hurst
could more readily have the limited pleasure
of handling the companions of his
happier years. While at this one morning
he entered the room, and having heard
what she was doing and thanked her only
by a smile, asked, ' Would she undertake

something else for him : not very troublesome,
he hoped, but he was afraid his
sister might find it puzzling

Then puzzled she need not be, for I
shall so gladly do it !' said Sydney, coming
down from her steps : ' What is it, Mr.
Hurst?'

To sort my manuscripts, such as they
are, foreign and home. You will find a
set of loose notes on Gothic buildings and
pencil sketches belonging to them. If
you will place these in order, they may be
worth a trifle.'

You have changed your mind !'
Sydney exclaimed. * I have seen the drawings.
I am almost certain I can etch
them. You will begin another book !'

Not at any price ! ' he answered
brusquely, backing towards the door as
Sydney joyfully advanced, ' I merely want
to sell these things as they are. A

magazine writer might give a pound or
two for them. I '  as though driven to
say it  ' I would not have asked your
help, Miss Grey, if any one else could have
done it for me.'

Oh, why not ?' she returned, her
brightness all evaporating. But to this
Mr. Hurst only made indistinct response
as to ' trespassing too much,' and walked
away, leaving Sydney to begin her assorting
downcast and sad.

Mr. Babbington dined with them the
next day. Before the meal he talked
some while aside with his hostess, and
presently at the table asked Mr. Hurst if
he were intending to go to the Jervis's on
Friday : these being people who for a couple
of summer months rusticated and fished at
Perristone, a little higher up the river.
Slight acquaintance, begun the previous
wear with Mr. Hurst, was followed

up this season by invitation to dinner.

For you only, Gilbert,' Miss Hurst had
commented on the note, arrived that
morning. ' Mrs. Jervis is down, I understand,
but they have not included me. Oh
dear, no ! Perhaps they have never noticed
me. Or if they do know there is such
a person, why, I'm only your elder sister.
I have no position to make anyone take
account of me. Don't be offended at it,
Gilbert. I'm not. I'm above being offended,
though I can't help feeling it. You'll go ?'
But Mr. Hurst had told her, gently, to
decline. He cared nothing whatever about it :
and Miss Jean seemed gratified. Now she
appeared to have altered. Answering for
her brother  'Oh, he must certainly accept,'
she said ; ' to oblige me. Gilbert, you really,
really must. Etiquette is nothing at all tome,
so long as you get a pleasant evening.'

So I will call round and walk up

with you,' offered Mr. Babbington ; but
Mr. Hurst replying, *It brings you out
of your road. I would rather make my
way there alone ' Then I will return
with you, at any rate,' persisted the
clergyman, with a meaning glance at Miss
Jean : * your sister, will feel easier if you
agree to that, I know.' And Mr. Hurst
acquiesced rather than combat such a
trifle.

At seven o'clock on the day of this dining
at Perristone Sydney wandered from
garden to drawing-room, intending to
write there part at least of her letter to
Jacob Cheene. Miss Hurst was cutting
out jackets for the small Barrington
in the study. Mr. Hurst she imagined
gone. But there she was mistaken. Not
due for another half-hour at his entertainers,
he was standing on the hearth-rug,
waiting before he started for the

farewell inspection his sister had required,
and Sydney halted on the window-step,
letting her gaze, first of surprise, then of
something more, rest on that tall, well-built
figure in English evening uniform. Another
June evening one year ago, another
man so dressed she remembered vividly, and
hung her head, as if for that wretched bubble
of misdirected fancy she owed apology
to the presence before her. He could not
see that mantling shame, nor divine that
secret self-reproach ; but a keen sense of
both bade her draw back, away from him.
An instant and she would have been gone,
but just too soon Miss Jean came hurrying
in, one hand bandaged with a handkerchief.


So you are ready, Gilbert ! Or think
you are. But, Miss Grey, would you very
kindly give me the brush off the hall-stand?
Thank you. Stretch your arm

out, Gilbert, I hate a speck of dust ou
broadcloth, and of course you can't tell if
its there. Do you remember how I used
to brush you in your school-days when you
never would stand still? Dear, dear, to
think I have to do it now, and you  and
everything  so different. But I never
have repined. I don't mean to ; even if 
oh, Gilbert  ' breaking off to turn aside
and wipe her eyes  * your poor old sister
does like to see you as you are looking
now. She is always ready to be proud of
you ! But come, you are not finished off
yet. Mrs. Jervis is a bride, they tell me.
You must go properly adorned. Where is
a flower for your button-hole?'

I want none, Jean. Let me be off.
I shall be late.'

Not till you have a flower. Miss Grey,
are those wild rose-buds you are wearing ?
They are lovely, anyhow. May we rob
you of them ?*

Into, Jean ; no !'

They are your own,' said Sydney, unfastening
them from her dress, ' Davis had
clipped them from the orchard hedge. I
brought them in so that they should not
die entirely neglected ;' and she held the
delicate cluster out.

Miss Hurst signed at her own disabled
fingers.

I cut them stupidly with my huge
scissors. "Will you be good enough to
pin the flowers safely in? Oh, here
comes Flossy for the jackets before they
are ready ! Gilbert, you have your hat ?
Now do enjoy yourself ; and pray come
back in good spirits. I  I  shall wait up
for you.'

Flossy was piping forti * Miss Hurst, in
the hall. Flossy and her garments controlled
the situation. Away Miss Hurst
hurried. Shyly, reluctantly, Sydney took
up the miniature nosegay

 Have I to be decorated then?' Mr.
Hurst asked in a low voice, and for
answer lie fixed the buds in their place
with wondrous speed, frightened at 
herself.

Hardly a tithe of a minute her hands
hovered about him ; her soft skirt lay upon
his feet. He could almost feel her breathing.
Another second he could not have
kept master of himself. As thankless as
when her song all but unmanned him,
Gilbert Hurst took up his hat and went
forth to keep his engagement.

I shall take Flossy home if you will
excuse my running away said Miss
Hurst, looking in some while after ; ' ob,
I see you are writing. You will be glad to
be left.'

Sydney had just caught up her pen,
guiltily conscious of an aimless fit of
absence. Glad she was to be again left,

but her letter was not finished, not even
begun when, an hour later, in the twilight,
Miss Hurst returned, nervous, tremulous,
delightedly important.

I have been too long, but I couldn't
tear myself away from little Horace. He
was crying for his father. Nothing would,
comfort him but my stopping till he fell
asleep. Ah, it makes a woman very happy.
Miss Grey, to have children fond of lier ;
even  other people's !'

Then Miss Jean flitted away, smiling
as she recalled the child's little warm hold
upon her wrist. Presently back she came,
suggesting,

'Don't let me keep you up longer than
you like, Miss Grey. I want to talk to you
very much, but I think it must be tomorrow.
Of course I shall sit up for my
brother ; but you bad best not wait.'

Are you sure the time will not seem

long if you are alone?' Sydney asked,
nothing loth though to escape a tete-astute.

Oh, not the least. I would rather you
went. Which sounds rude, but it only
means I am not good company to-night.
For  oh, Miss Grey, I must tell you this
much  Mr. Babbington wants me to forget
all these last years ; to marry him now !
He told me so three weeks ago. I have
been distracted as to what was my duty.
I told him yesterday I dare not answer for
myself. Gilbert must decide. And he is
going to talk to Gilbert as they come home
from Perristone. It does agitate me so.
You won't mind my saying good-night.
I can  oh dear  I can tell you more tomorrow
!'

How much more, and what would it
be?

Sydney shook loose her heavy braids,
wrapped her dark dressing-gown about her

and gathered herself up on the deep 
in her bed-room, to ponder over
that. Sore-hearted, jealous, resentful ; not
for herself. Smarting irrationally for
some one else and what the coming hour
was bringing him. Mutely she kept vexed
vigil, while the outer world, that had sunk
into shadow with the falling eve, rewoke
to clear untainted shape beneath a full June
moon. From beyond the far, dim hills ;
touching the west woods' crests ; down the
still, billow-like masses of full foliage ; to
wreaths of mist about the meadows the
silver light had stolen before, through the
perfect quiet, voices sounded nearing Vanstone.
By the gate some minutes' monologue
ensued. Then an interchange of
good-nights, and Mr. Hurst re-entered the
house to meet Miss Jean.

Well Sydney knew, if arbitration were
left to him, what the issue of that con-vol.

III. M

terence would be. Acutely, as inarticulate
sounds rose from the lower room to
her open casement, imagination kept pace
with the painful steps Gilbert Hurst must
now be treading of self-renunciation to
whatever point his sister's happiness demanded.
For him, for his future, there
was no one to plead : no one by to care !
And she, atl Alwyn, who ought most of
any in the world to have helped him now,
could do it less than the veriest stranger
in the world. With a bitter flood of tears
she buried her face in her hands, and
feverishly struggled long to quell the
useless torrent. When, throbbing and
aching, she raised her head at last, the
voices underneath had ceased. A footfall.
Miss Jean's, traversed the lobby to the
opposite room, and the hush of near midnight
settled on the house.

But sleep seemed as far from Sydney's

eyes as if the dawn of another day were
nigh ; as indeed in some sort it was.

Miss Jean's palpitations had long subsided
into slumber, and still Sydney stood
at her window, tormented by yearnings,
passionate as futile, to furnish Gilbert
Hurst, master, instructor to her as he had
been, second thus only to Mr. Vaughan,
clever as he was, noble and worthy, to
furnish him now with some haven from
this last storm of hopelessness that threatened
him.

So earnestly she was thinking, looking
stalwart, a movement below was unheeded.
A figure from the house crossed the
lawn, passed over the sloping meadow to
the curve of the stream beside two drooping
willows, then stood, a bare six inches
from the foam-fringed, eddying pool. There
her eyes suddenly rested on it. Took in the
spot, the form. Something more subtle

M 2

than instinct showed her the peril of that
conjunction, and in that moment's awful
fear she knew the truth. Gilbert Hurst's
life was dearer to her than her own !
Swift as thought, with soundless, slippered
feet, she was down the stairs, out from
the open window, over the grass, near,
near, nearer to him ; and not a whit too
soon.

Forgive him all who can. Bethink you,
any who would condemn, how horribly
close to mortal sin most men some time
or other of their pilgrimage have been.
How the strongest heart has had its hour
of sickening weakness. How the lives of
well-nigh all mortals know some era when
sense and even faith are over-ridden by
agony that seems incurable. Such, slow
gathering through months, culminated tonight
in the hour when any world
promised Gilbert Hurst more rest than

this. In the white full light he stood,
every pain-racked feature plain, one hand
pressed hard upon his mouth. For one
beat of the pulse he swayed : another

Wait patiently for Him : and  He shall
give thee thy heart's desire''

Close to him now, she could not speak.
She could not cry to him. Words of her
own her lips refused to frame. In that
great crisis volition was all quenched.
From a source beyond herself those notes,
those syllables arose which laid the evil
spirit tugging so hard for one more fainting
soul. Gilbert Hurst turned, white as
death, towards the notes which sounded
like an angel's help.

Why are you here ?' he said, hoarsely.
'What brought you?'

I saw you,' she answered, panting, ' so
near the water. I was afraid for you.'

Afraid for him !' Afraid for him. And

had flown to his side thus, in her innocent
bravery. Verily temptation had not done
with him yet. He moved a step from the
water.

 You need not be afraid for me now,' he
said :  go back,' the cold words so warring
with the fires in his breast they rang out
rough and harsh.

Not without you,' said Sydney : speak
as he might, she would not leave him thus.
Mr. Hurst ; do come,' she let her hand
fall timidly upon his shoulder; which of
them was it who was trembling so ? ' Do
come?' she repeated, and to that sweet
imploring, that torture too dear to be
denied, he yielded. Her light touch holding
him in tender charge, silently they
regained the house, a journey brief but
never to be forgotten. A fitful night
breeze swept her long hair across his
hands as they were entering. He started

aside as though the soft tress stung him.

Go and sleep now, for I am safe
enough, Miss Grey he said, and strode
upstairs.

Alone she noiselessly barred the window,
then noiselessly crept back to her own
room. But there strength suddenly discarded
her. Upon her knees she fell beside
her bed. Thence sent one great entreating
cry to Heaven.

Safe ! Of Thy mercy keep him safe.
My love! My love!'

Chapter Viii.

THE Grand ALLIANCE.

The week bargained for and three days'
grace beyond, Mr. Drayton stayed at St.
Clairs ; long enough for Mary to rub her
eyes plenty of times and make quite sure
her new-come happiness was no mere
dream : long enough for Mr. Yaughan to
sun himself in the bright situation with the
keen, amused pleasure which almost turns
unselfish age to youth again : and long
enough for Lady Comyngham to be attracted
by the tidings to the Gate-House, thereto
make congratulations in such sort, asset

Mrs. Dacie's maternal pride in a blaze
which has never since subsided.

To this day she relates how the Countess
said, ' St. Clairs must not expect to find
another Miss Dacie in a hurry, but they
must beg her to put young Mrs. Duvesne
in training, before she left, and Edward,
with his small parish, must help Mr.
Yaughan, with his large one, and they
must all try and make the bride as little
missed as possible !'

A programme which, it is pleasant to
record, obtained forthwith, and still remains
in excellent working order. Then the
bride-groom-expectant went off, on his less
agreeable errand and, having run down to
overlook what he had in hand at Granfylde,
and returned thence to see after his
wedding suit in Bond Street, was putting
away a Monday afternoon, before starting
the same evening for Paris, by a lounge iu

the Park, when from the herd of idlers he
was unexpectedly accosted by Major
Yilliers, beside whom was Mr. Rupert,
whose acquaintance he had not before had
the honour of making.

Both these gentlemen were extremely
willing to receive a third party into their
conversation.

The honest old Major was sorely hurt,
far below the surface, by what he considered
his son's currish conduct at The Dale
the summer before. This, combined with
the young man's breach of promise as to
loo and congeners of that seductive pastime,
had set up a barrier between father and
son ; neither was well at ease in the other's
company nowadays. By a substratum of
selfish sense Mr. Eupert had escaped going
to the dogs, but he was imbued with a
distaste for the leading-strings of prudence,
and, though now living in bounds of moderation

and his actual income  for with his
biggest asseveration the Major had vowed
nevermore to pay a penny of debt for him
he adopted the cynical air of a man to
whom the world is a used-up toy, decorum
and respectability just tramways into a
wished-for abyss of oblivion !

After a few minutes' stroll, ' I have
been trying, Mr. Drayton said the Major,
who, by an effort, was always the cheerier
of this pair, * to make my son spare me a
journey the end of this week. He could
get away from Friday to Monday, and have
a couple of days at Paris if he would agree
to it ; but'  with a glance at Mr. Rupert,
less proud, less confident, than of yore 
I am afraid he won't contrive to oblige
me.'

It is the sort of thing I don't care for,
sir,' answered the younger man, with his
chin in the air, and a tone declaring him

bored with the subject. ' The channel always
turns me bilious, and I would rather not go.'

Paris !' said Richard Drayton. ' Why,
that is where I'm bound to-night. When
do you go, Major Villiers ?'

On Thursday, if go I must. We've a
summons from Mrs. Alwyn to her daughter's
wedding on Saturday. I suppose I
have to give the young lady away.'

'Mrs. Alwyn's daughter! You mean
the elder ? You don't mean '

Yes, yes, the elder. Not Sydney  Miss
Alwyn,' put in the Major, with a quick
look at his son, who pretended not to hear
what was being talked of; 'it is my own
niece, Leonora, who I'm given to understand
is making a grand match at last.
But I wish they had not dragged me over
for it. Suppose, Mr. Drayton, you go to
them, with my compliments, and say yonll
be deputy for me !'

When they would send me back with
anything but compliments,' was the laughing
answer.  No, I must decline such a
delicate embassy !'

Ah, you've no taste for these affairs
either !' sighed the Major. ' So I raust>
e'en pack up my coat and show up myself,
I'm afraid.'

That you must, sir. Though,'  with a
meaning twinkle  ' I am not at all above
taking an interest in such things. In fact
I'm going to take a very strong interest in
one somewhere about the end of this
month.'

You don't say so !' cried the Major.
What have I come on now ? Why, who's
the lady ?'

Some one you know, sir. I have to
fetch her from St. Clairs.' Mr. Rupert
deigned to look round at this. ' It is Miss
Dacie.'

Hey-day, sic down and tell us all about
it said the Major, with a clutch at some
vacant chairs. ' I'm heartily glad to hear
again about that friend of  about Miss
Dacie. When was it settled ? And when
does it come off ?'

These and sundry more questions
Richard Drayton freely answered the
much interested inquirer, Mr. Villiers sitting
meanwhile a few paces off, consuming
cigarettes with an aspect of total indifference.
For finale the cause of his expedition
to Paris was explained, which his
hearer, with many an interpolated ' scamp '
and 'scoundrel,' was getting vastly excited
over, when a passer-by with friendly
greeting claimed ' old Villiers,' and for a
couple of minutes Richard Drayton was
left to Mr. Rupert only. By way of civilly
saying something, he handed the young
man a commonly executed ' Carte de

visite,' remarking, ' People should not
leave these tell-tales behind them. If I
had not picked this up by accident at
Granfylde, I should never have been able
to track out the original, whom I have
been telling your father of.'

The photograph was of a young man
with marked features, gazing not straightforward
but sideways from the picture.
Mr. Eupert took it carelessly, but at the
first glimpse his expression changed.
With an ejaculation he flung away his
cigarette, then wheeled his chair closer to
Mr. Drayton. ' I really have not been
attending,' he said, ' but is this a friend of
yours ?'

Friend ? No ! Enemy rather.'
So much the better for you.'
Why ? You know nothing of him, do
you?'

Once upon a time I did. A little.

And I knew him for a rascal. You say
you intend to find him for something or
other ?'

 Yes. To settle scores with him.'
'Ah, lucky to be able! Wish I'd the
same chance, Mr. Drayton. But if you
meet your gentleman you may find it useful
to be able to tell him  ' looking askance
to see his father was out of hearing
' that one of the parties he played with
at 'little St. James," (he'll know where you
mean !) on the first of May two years ago,
understands about his King of Hearts well
enough now. In plain English, you may
tell him he is a card-sharper and a black-leg,
and men in a livery he doesn't love
will receive him with open arms if ever he
sets foot in London again !'

And may I mention who says this ?'

He'll be none the wiser. I cannot
even tell you what he was called, though I

should know this face among a thousand.
We met in a company known only to each
other, sooner or later, by two names, fools
and rogues. He belonged to the last. I
had the slight superiority of belonging to
the first class. You perceive  ' the liveliness
imparted by the notion of a blow at
his old associate giving place to his former
drawling lassitude  ' I reveal the secrets of
my unregenerate days, Mr. Drayton : now
nous avons change tout cela, and I'm never
going to be naughty no more ! Sh !' Mr.
Rupert applied himself to another cigarette
and nursing one knee, as the Major returned
to his place, and taking up the thread
of his interrupted dialogue remarked regretfully
: 

What a pity, Mr. Drayton, your prosperity
did not come a year ago, when
Miss Dacie's friend, poor Sydney, could
have shared its pleasures.'

VOL. III. N

Just the one drawback we both deplore,'
said the other man, heartily. * But we
don't mean to let it last a day longer than
we can help. Mary  Miss Dacie  has
written to her through the mother, as
usual. If she won't give us leave , to go
and see her, we mean to attack Mrs. Alwyn
for permission. We think we know why
she is banished. Now, we mean to know
where it's to.'

Then he repeated the Countess's conjectures,
and asked point-blank if they were
correct.

Why, to be sure they are I' answered
the Major, uncommonly relieved that the
murder was out, 'and, as this has got wind
just as I said it would, I shall urge my
sister-in-law to take off her preposterous
veto on the poor child corresponding frankly
with us all. If I knew where she was
stowed away I should be tempted to let it

out now. But I don't. For  ' with a
vexed frown, which Eichard Drayton
fancied he could interpret anent Mr.
E-upert, * she will have nothing to do with
me now ! But, if you should chance on
Mrs. Alwyn over yonder, ask her about
Sydney yourself !'

Small likelihood of that,' returned
Eichard Drayton, *my business will not
carry me into ladies' company. But such
as it is I must be off after it. I've only
time to get my portmanteau from the
Bingham " and catch the seven-twenty
train from Victoria ;' and with genial farewell
from the Major and a bow from Mr.
Villiers, who was talking now to some
ladies at a little distance, he was soon out
of the Park, and en route for his first stage
towards searching out his old slanderer
among the slums of Paris.

There at least, assuming that like seeks

N 2

like, he was prepared to find Mr.  Thompson
as the gentleman appeared to have
been known at Grant jude, or  Thomas
Travers as he styled himself at San
Nicholas : but, Tuesday having been spent
fruitlessly among such haunts as he had
been privately directed to, he was fain next
day to take the advice proffered by the
courteous manager at Meurice's and invoke
the aid of the French police. A morning
visit to the office of one of the chefs in the
Boulevard du Palais had the effect of
clearing the lines. Mr. Travers was perfectly
well-known in Paris, under yet
another alias. He was the moving spirit
of a gang for whom the law was on the
alert. His movements were watched with
much solicitude.

You will probably find him, Monsieur,'
said the polite functionary to his inquirer,
speaking English so fluently that the conversation,

to Richard Drayton's Unaffected
relief, was carried on in that tongue, * on
the Sunday evening at a certain gaming-table
in the Rue Faubourg or  you
desire him sooner?  then auy morning at
his recently engaged appartement on the
Boulevard de Malesherbes, or in the earlier
evening at Nombre dix-huit, Avenue Bois
de Boulogne, where he spends now much
time. He is clever, very, this your compatriot.
He evades us yet. But if you
will his detention under this,' touching
documents just shown him, 'you shall
be immediately accompanied to that
purpose.'

Richard Drayton deliberated. Once his
own was name cleared, he hardly desired to
push the man to this extremity. He would
give him another chance. Try other means
first. Thanking the civil official, then, and
arranging for further communication, if

needful, lie bent his course towards the
well-known Boulevard de Malesherbes, and
requested of the concierge at one of its
best appointed dwellings an interview with
Mr. Thompson under his latest Parisian
pseudonym.

But ' Monsieur was not within. He had
but arisen to set forth and make visits.
The hour of his return was totally uncertain.'


On, therefore, to the Avenue Bois de
Boulogne went Mr. Drayton, trusting,
though with some wonderment, to come,
in that well-inhabited locality, upon
his gentleman with his intimates for the
time being.

But at number eighteen he was also too
late. An active-minded attendant was
bien chagrin e, but le Monsieur Anglaise
was but just departed to drive with ibis
friends to Longchamps. He would be

returned only at the hour to dine in the
evening.'

Allowing seven as the hour to dine
Richard Drayton put away the time impatiently
till eight, then presented himself
once more at the balconied, flower-garnished
little mansion, requested to be announced
merely as a gentleman from England,
and speculating much on what species
of company he was entering, found himself,
after traversing a spacious gilded
corridor, in a brilliant decorated salon,
and in the presence of Mrs. Alwyn, Miss
Villiers, and Mr. Morecoombe-Wood !

The ladies were in charming, costly
evening toilette. Mrs. Alwyn's satin
draperies enveloped her velvet fauieuil,
Leonora in pearly silk and muslin, with a
semi-cuirass of myosotis, was looking up
with rapt attention at her masculine companion.
He, in immaculate dinner

costume, seemed whispering soft speeches
for her ear alone. All three showed
visible amazement  no fraction greater
than what he felt I  at Richard Drayton's
appearance. In one of the trio a flash of
something like fear showed at the back of
this surprise.

This is an unexpected  call said Mrs.
Alwyn, rising, ceremonious interrogation
in her aspect. * You bring no ill news, I
trust.

Oh, certainly not. At least  that is,
course not !' returned Mr. Drayton, shaking
hands with herself and her daughter,
then coming to a most awkward full-stop
before their guest, during which thought
Mrs. Alwyn rapidly, 'This man has found
Sydney out. He wants to marry her.
That is why she refused to come here tome.
If he hopes for one sous of dower, he
will find himself disappointed !' Aloud
she said.

'You do not know our companion.
Allow me to introduce '

Excuse me,' the caller interrupted, ' I
do know Mr.  Wood  Morecoombe  er  '
(Among the aliases he grew confused.
Mr. Morecoombe-Wood,' corrected Mrs.
Alwyne, her eyebrows contracting at this
gauclierie.)  ' perfectly well. To be candid,
it is for him my visit is intended. 1 must
plead guilty to never having suspected it
would bring me into your society.'

Mrs. Alwyn drew her mouth into surprised
lines, sank back with dignity, and
made a gesture implying, 'then proceed
with your business, pray !' Miss Villiers,
with a scarcely concealed pout, gave a
glance of pettish offence at the intruder.
But Mr. Morecoombe-Wood took a seat
doggedly by the fair Leonora, and from
that shelter met Mr. Drayton's eye with a
stare of steady defiance.

Before ladies you will excuse me from
entering on any discussion that may have
brought you here he said. sit is not
exactly the form we follow in Paris V

'As you will answered Richard Drayton.
' But having come thus far to meet
you, and being in haste to get back to
England, perhaps Mrs. Alwyn will permit
me to wait here until you can spare me
five minutes / and he took a chair close
to the door, sitting there through a
minute of embarrassment to all, broken
by his hostess asking if he was particularly
occupied in England, that he must
return thither quickly from this enchanting
city.

*I fear, Mrs. Alwyn, I don't find Paris
half so enchanting as the village you left,
was the blunt reply to this. ' At any rate
it is to St. Clairs I have gone to look for a
wife !'

And found one V cried the lady, suspicion
aflame again.

And found her.'

Actually in that remote corner of the
earth,' said Leonora, pityingly. The French
capital was her Paradise. St. Clairs in
reminiscence  well, exactly the reverse !
You must be easily contented, Mr.
Drayton I'

Indeed I am not. I could find no
match to Miss Dacie elsewhere, I assure
you. For I have followed Dr. Primrose's
advice, and chosen my wife as she would
choose her gown, to wear well !'

'Miss Da  che !' repeated Leonora, with
an inflection of amused patronage :
Actually to be married I And you say
Dr. Primrose advised it ? Is he a medical
man you both know, then ?'

Mrs. Alwyn tapped the floor impatiently.
Sometimes her dearest Leonora was

provokingly stupid. She was so now.
What would that well read Mr. More-combe
Wood think ? She need not have
disturbed herself. The well-read gentleman
had enough else to think of in those
seconds, to let his fair lady's pretty ignorance
pass unheeded.

Drayton,' he said, getting up armed
with a resolution to take the bull by the
horns ;  Mrs. Alwyn will permit us the use
of her salle-d-mangei\ I am sure. We had
best dispose of what brings you here at
once.' Eichard Drayton was on his feet
instantly, still in front of the door. Unearthing
his quarry where he had, put him
in a bit of a daze, but one idea he kept well
in sight. Having found the fellow, he must
not let him go till what he wanted was
secured.

We can dispose of it without so much
as leaving the room,' he answered, ' Mrs.

Alwyn giving us leave to talk ten minutes
by yonder writing-tables

*My room is at your service, Mr. ,'
said the lady ; ' Leonora,
love,' as the two men moved off the length
of the apartment,  read me Malignant's
London letter, will you?' And to that
distant accompaniment Leonora's lover
wound up accounts with him whom he had
nearly made his scape-goat years before.

His cavalier air changed to one of lynx-like
anxiety, he watched while, without a
single word, letters from one Senor Jose
de Souza of San Nicholas, detailing certain
sums unlawfully abstracted from his
possession by a Francis Travers, a telegraphed
order for the arrest of this
Travers if necessary, and a second telegram
giving entire power to deal with the
matter to Richard Drayton, were laid
before him.

His quick wit caught at the saving
clause.

If necessary He put his finger on the
syllables. ' What buys me off ?' he asked,
in the lowest audible voice.

This,' replied Eichard Drayton, unfolding
a sheet of letter-paper, on which was
set forth clearly a recantation of the tissue
of lies told by Francis Travers, to stain his
colleague's character at their Brazilian
post.

At this distance of time and place : for
sums insignificant to him, Senor de
Souza has no special desire to prosecute
you '

'Chut! Chut'

If I am contented, so will he be.'

Give me a pen !' whispered Mr. ,
with the harsh, hard breathing
of a man at bay. ' There !' seizing a

slender, gilded toy of Leonora's, and dashing
off a shaky ' Francis Travers,' ' that's
soon done, and, upon my honour (an oath
with poor enough backbone) * I'm glad todo
it, Drayton. You can't tell what I was
put to out with the De Souzas. But IVe
often felt in an awfully low way over it. I
never did a trick of the sort before or
since. You are satisfied ? You'll go now ?
You won't let out upon a fellow ?' This
in rapid, feverishly-eager undertone, his
evil, calculating face well kept from the
ladies' sight. * You'll cry quits if you're as
generous as you used to be !'

Even with his precious draft safe, Richard
Drayton hesitated, knowing the man a
liar, whose mere acquaintance boded ill to
Mrs. Alwyn and her daughter. While he
demurred. Miss Villiers flung down her
paper, crying out :

Oh, Travers, Travers ! A horrible bee
is on my arm ! It will stings me. Oh, here,
here, what shall I do !'

 Confound  the bee !' said Mr. ,
sotto voce ; but he had to goto
her assistance, while Mrs. Alwyn, sailing
down on Mr. Drayton, made motherly
excuse for the familiar appeal.

If you had been a few days later you
would have missed finding your friend
with us. On Saturday my dear daughter
changes her name and the gentleman beside
her becomes my son-in-law. I think you
once said you had a little place in the south
of England. Perhaps you know other
members of his family and the beautiful
place they own in Devonshire?'

Then Richard Drayton made up his
mind what to do. Leonora's fluttering
were calming down. He went up to the
man beside her.  After all,' said he, curbing

a strong inclination to kick this cozener,
there is something else I must speak of
to you. Suppose we step out together for
half-an-hour ?'

Oh, tiresome !' murmured Leonora to
her-allegiance.

One minute only, cherie f he answered,
in the same tone, stooping to lift her white
hand to his moustache ; then the two went
out in the lobby together, and in one man's
scowl of contemptuous disgust the other
saw his game was up.

Jean ! My hat ! My gloves ! Ah, the
lazy beggar is not here ! I must wait
upon myself. Excuse me.' And with
that he dived with snake-like rapidity
into an unlighted passage, whence for
nigh five minutes his companion impatiently
awaited his return. Iso sign of
him then. Eichard Drayton followed in
the same direction; went through baize-vol.

III.

covered doors, down a long corridor ending
with a second staircase, up which came
Jean, humming gaily. Then it all flashed
on him. Number eighteen was a double
house ; a corner house. By the side
entrance the bird had flown.  Monsieur
Morecoombe-Wood ? Oh, he was set out
since many minutes  rapidly ! Would
monsieur return to Madame Alvyne ?' asked
Jean, and to his excessive mortification
Mr. Drayton felt that was the only thing
he could do.

Ushered again to her salary the lady was
doubly surprised to receive him alone.
Tenfold more when he begged a private
interview, and  Leonora in bewildered
annoyance, having swept away through
folding doors, to throw herself on a couch
in the next room, and listen attentively to
every sentence uttered in the one she had
left  beyond expression startled at what
he had then to say.

Am 1 satisfied with the marriage projected
for my daughter ?' Thus he broke
the ice. ' Of course 1 am, Mr. Drayton !
Mr. Morecoombe-Wood is a gentleman of
property, of leisure, of undeniable position,
of excellent birth. His family is irreproachable.
He is a baron ; Hanoverian,
Bavarian : I am not sure which. Count
Muster, his closest friend, has visited us
here. He cannot speak too highly of him.
My daughter stays with Count Sister's
circle through the winter Berlin season.
I do trust  ' faltering angrily before Mr.
Drayton's pitying expression, 'you are not
come to me with any annoying hearsay.
Slander floats in Paris as well as in other
places. But I have no desire to hear any
of Mr. Morecoombe-Wood !*

My dear madam,' was the reply, ' I
wish fervently I had no worse than slander
to report. Try your utmost not to be

o2

upset. But there is no time to lose. The
truth must out, come what may. I am
bound to tell you this man you have received
as " Morecoombe-Wood " is just
plain Francis Thompson : a fraudulent
clerk in England : a thief in his employment
in Brazil : a card-sharper noted in a
dozen cities: an unmitigated scoundrel
under all conditions. You have but one
thing to be thankful for in your connection
with him. That is, that you have probably
seen the last of him.*

The last  of him !' gasped Mrs. Al-gwyn,
her cheeks shrivelling with anger
and fright beneath their coating of cosmetics,
*Mr. Drayton, this is not true!
I  you  he shall confront you ! He shall
disprove this ! Take me, take me to him !
How can I, how can my child, know peace
till we find this false !' And with frenzied
weeping and fright, powder and rouge

rubbed off, leaving a woman grotesquely
aged and faded, Mrs. Alwyn demanded a
carriage to take her and Mr. Morecoombe-
Wood's calumniator to the Boulevard des
Malesherbes, there to win denial for these
most abominable accusations !

Poor lady, the miserable drive had a
yet more miserable end. The swindler,
never unprepared, had got the start of
them. From his elegant appointment
hired, not as he had assured them for the
year, but for one month only, the concierge
told them ; furnished not from his purse
but from his landlord's, Monsieur had buta
short quarter o an hour before removed
many personal belongings, ' summoned to
Bordeaux !' And not his belongings only
were missing

cried Mrs. Alwyn, ' are the
cases of china, sent here direct from
England ? They were to be ready when

my daughter came. We were to have a
frieze of " Spoke," Mr. Drayton, worth a
hundred guineas I There was Wedge-wood
too. And a piece of Faience de
Henri Deux! Priceless! Where is it?
Where is my daughter's trousseau ? Half
had been sent here. They were to have
come on Saturday themselves. There
was lace ! There were jewels ! Mr.
Drayton, Mr. Drayton, I am losing my
senses ! What am I to do ! What am 1
to do !'

Difficult, this, to answer.

Between the wrath of the unpaid concerned
the lady's ravings, and his own imperfect
command of French, Richard
Drayton had a distracting night of it.
Back at the Avenue Bois de Boulogne,
sounds reached the salon where he was
left awhile, of Leonora bewailing, upbraiding,
blaming : her mother fondling

soothing, scolding, retorting : both finding
their one consolation in casting the onus
of this catastrophe upon each other: a
deplorable duet, lasting till long after
midnight.

Then, tortured and dishevelled, the elder
lady appeared again, revealing a yet more
serious cause for her violent agitation.

'Mr. Drayton, if this horrible nightmare
be true, where is the  man ? He
must be found : detained ; for he has grossly
robbed me !'

If your loss be bearable, I would almost
counsel your putting up with it for the sake
of your daughter. If you move the law
against him you, will only have to suffer
painful publicity, and he owns nothing but
ill-gotten gains at cards. Nothing can be
recovered of him.'

But it must ! It shall !' half-shrieked
Mrs. Alwyn, and then divulged the further

fact that besides smaller sums lent him,
just till his dividends came in,' and
for furniture which he represented himself
as purchasing, the sharper had actually
inveigled his dupe into taking her daughter's
portion  half her entire remaining fortune
from the English funds and placing it ina
 compagnie of which he was a managing
director ! This worthless scrip she now
showed with trembling eagerness, only to
have her worst fears confirmed. In
fatuous credulity she had been fooled of
five thousand pounds, and Eichard Drayton
dared hold out no hope of recovering one
farthing !

He went by daybreak to set the police
astir, Mrs. Alwyn insisting on that course,
the result of which was the discovery some
four-and-twenty hours later, that the
swindler, in flaxen wig, and yet another
alias, had got safely off from Havre, and

set sail for an American port. Whether
he had meant to carry out the marriage
on the ensuing Saturday, and so wrong his
victims yet more heavily, could never now
be known.

Major Villiers, stopped by telegram from
coming over, so strongly urged hj letter
their making the best of a bad business,
that all idea of legal retribution was discarded.
At the end of the week Mr. Drayton
left the bitterly distressed ladies preparing
to give Paris a wide berth, as soon
as they should be fit to travel. Then,
remembering it for the first time in all this
hurly-burly, he ventured the suggestion
that the presence of Mrs. Alwyn's youngest
child might be some comfort now. Might
he, or might Miss Dacie, send Miss Sydney
to her ?

But the mother answered with concentrated
irritation.

'Most certainly not. My daughter
has chosen to strip herself of all that
might have helped us. Now, therefore,
less than ever can I condone her wilfulness
or suffer her return !' And seeing she
was too angry and too actually ill to be
reasoned with, Mr. Drayton had to take
back to England this unsatisfactory reply
as the corner-stone of his  in so many
ways  most unsatisfactory expedition.

CHAPTER IX.

MISS HURST Arranges EVERYTHING FOE
EVERYONE.

When Sydney woke after that strange
night of over-wrought emotions the sun
high in the heavens, and sounds about
the house, told her usual rising hour long
past.

As she fully roused to realisation of what
crimsoned her cheeks and smote her with
a pain she could not have parted from
for worlds, a light tap sounded at the
door and Miss Jean's head was cautiously
intruded.

Oh, awake this time !' she exclaimed,
advancing cheerfully. ' I looked in twice
before, but I wouldn't allow Fanny to
disturb you. " No, Fanny," I said. " When
people sleep so heavily, it is a sign they
require it;" though if I reasoned like that
for myself I should rarely be up before
noon. I am sure the birds were twittering
and it was getting quite dawn to-day before
I had had a single doze !'

This was a general delusion of Miss
Jean's, a harmless hallucination, never
gainsaid in her household. But this morning
the martyr-like boast carried with it
singular dread. Nervously determining
to hear the worst at once, Sydney lifted
her head to ask, 'Did anything disturb
you then so very much last night ?' And
the suave self-delusion of the reply  ' Oh,
nothing fresh ! Only, as you may imagine,
after such an agitating talk with my poor

brother I was not able to close my eyes
for hours !'  was a relief beyond expression.
The new mystery of her own life,
ineffable folly, sweet, miserable as it might
be, she could keep safe from outside cognisance.
To have had the other phase of
the late hours' brief drama suspected,
known, would have been terrible. Miss
Jean's shocked investigations, their inevitable
sequence, Mr. Babbington's officially
scandalised upbraiding, these Mr. Hurst
was spared. Immeasurably grateful she
felt that this was so.

While Sydney rapidly thought, Miss
Jean chattered on : wondered Miss Grey
could sleep with undrawn curtains ; it was
bad for her eyes ; she always told Gilbert it
was bad for his. Yes, she never neglected
any trifle that might give him a chance,
poor fellow, though long since she had lost
all hope for him. She quite imagined he

had done as much for himself, but going
off as he had this morning to Dr. Legs,
showed her mistaken.

Gone !' Sydney echoed, sitting up, her
fears for him all starting to the fore again.
When ? Had Mr. Hurst left Wynstone
that morning?'

Good gracious !' cried Miss Hurst. * Do
you sleep in a dressing-gown. Miss Grey !
Haven't you sufficient blankets? Would
you like cousin Priscilla's knitted quilt?
Why didn't you tell me you were cold ?'

I am not, indeed,' Sydney stammered,
 only  my head ached. I fell asleep with
this on. And you said  Mr. Hurst  ?'

 Is gone to the same place he was
coming from when you met him last July.
To James Legh's, an old friend of our
family. He told poor Gilbert last year if
anything could ever benefit him it would
be total cessation from work, absolute

freedom from anxiety ; and that I know he
has had.

" Try those," said Dr. Legh, " and come
again next summer :" so he is gone, much
to my surprise. I thought he had given
up the notion, but this morning it appeared
to have taken hold of him, so I would
not vex him by saying " no " to it : I
merely remarked, "' Tm afraid it's a waste
of money, Gilbert dear, and with quarter-day
near, I am short, as usual ; nevertheless,
here are two sovereigns, and I know
you'll give me any change you bring back."
But really, Miss Grey, you look as if you
had a headache : how glad you will be of
a quiet day with me alone. While you are
getting up, I'll go down and make you
some strong tea. You'll enjoy that !' and
with a pleasant glow of self-appreciation
off trotted Miss Hurst.

In half-an-hour Sydney descended too :

the stairs, the hall, the very sunshine, all
looking strange, as if she had had some
illness since noticing them last. The
gleaming river beyond the garden set her
shuddering. The house seemed curiously,
eloquently empty. The absence of one
pervaded every room, every minute.

At the end of the breakfast-table Miss
Hurst sorted and dusted sundry inherited
treasures of crockery. While Sydney
made the best feint of a meal she could,
the industrious lady proceeded with her
Crown Derby, explaining : 

*I take the opportunity of doing this
while Gilbert is away. I am so careful
not to hurt his feelings ; I always try to
avoid saying, " Mind where you are going,
or what you are doing ;" and I'm sure the
way he moves about is extraordinary ;
but I tell him prevention is better than
cure, so I put cups and saucers like these

out of his reach, for he would be sorry todo
me an injury in anything, little or large,
as Vm sure he proved last night.' Then,
after a halt full of self-consciousness,
You would like to hear how I got on
with him, Miss Grey ?'

Y es. If you don't think Mr. Hurst
will mind your telling me.'

Why should he ? If I choose to confide
in anyone, what need stop me ? Mr.
Mr.  oh, dear,' with quite a juvenile
simper, I must say " Horatius," is gone
to Hereford till this evening, and I am not
one who can keep my pleasures to myself.
That is,' with a tinge of offence at her
grand disclosure not being more eagerly
met, 'if you care to hear of them, Miss
Grey.'

I really do. My head makes me seem
stupid. Please go on.'

'Ah, the sun glares through the win-vol.

III. p

dow. I'll let the blind down, then the
pain will pass off. There!' suiting the
action to the word and resolving her
precious china as she talked : * Well, you
can imagine how nervous I got waiting
for Gilbert last night. I could have sunk
into the ground when I heard him and 
and Horatius at the gate. I couldn't
think what to say or how to say it, but
Horatius '  that bewitching name was an
apple of gold to Miss Jean's tongue ! 
had been so good. He had entered into
every particular with Gilbert. There was
nothing for me to explain except '  with
appropriate confusion  ' how truly I am
still attached to Horatius.' A little pause.
Then : ' My poor brother ! You see he
has been accustomed to consider himself
everything to me. I am afraid it came asa
blow upon him. He looked so odd, so

pale when he came in. But I impressed
on him that a wife's affection is quite different
to a sister's. That I can expand to the
one without robbing him of the other ;
and that though  or even because he
may never know a wife's, he shall never,
never lose a sister's ! And I told him, if
he thought me wicked or foolish or unfair
to him to marry, just to say so candidly,
and I would see if I could endeavour to
give it up, though of course it would
break poor Horatius's heart, and mine,
and ruin the poor motherless little children's
prospects for ever ! And when he
said my happiness was the first thing, and,
if marrying Mr. Babbington secured that,
I must put him out of the question altogether,
I said ''no," nothing on earth
shall make me do so ! And if he could
agree to neither of our plans which 



thus named to him, why still, as long as I
lived, he should always have a corner in
my home.'

'Plans,' Sydney, with expectation ordered
to numbness, put in. ' What were
the plans. Miss Hurst ?'

Well, mine that Gilbert should become
a clergyman. Yes, indeed ! I could
teach him the prayers by heart myself.
An undertaking, but for him I would
attempt it. Horatius would attend to his
views. I haven't a doubt Horatius could
make him orthodox, though,' with fine
inconsequential confusion, ' I don't think
he can be so much amiss, in spite of his
not liking to argue on theology. But he
is a most honourable man, and I'm sure
no one could ever say a word against his
character, and he has a good voice, and
poor people always get attached to him.

Davis is, Taffy was, so the Church is the
very thing for him ?'

And he decides  ?' Sydney asked, Miss
Hurst leaving off for breath.

nothing yet. He hardly said a word.
And I begged him to understand I had no
intention of driving him into work. " Of
course," I said, '' dear Gilbert, if you just
live with  us, you will make  er  our
children your companions. They are
backward now, but in a year s time Belle
will be able to read to you. And you
wouldn't expect me to go on paying Miss
Grey to stop here, when there will be
plenty of us to attend to you, and my poor
little income will be wanted in fifty new
ways.'

A tremor of that coming separation
turned Sydney cold.

It is reasonable,' she said, shrinking

from her own words, * that I should leave
you.'

Miss Hurst had strayed on awkward
ground. In her own embarrassment she
overlooked Sydney's emotion.

You and I will settle that by and by.
But I was bound to just name it to my
brother. And, dear Miss Grey, now don't
mind this, but I said too that I thought for
your own self it would be a good thing for
you to leave us.'

The blood rushed tingling over Sydney's
face. Was her secret an open one ?
What had Miss Hurst guessed ? What
had she told her brother ?

A good thing for me to leave !' She faltered
: ' but  why ?'

Miss Hurst had finished her china.
Now she drew her chair close to her
startled companion, and patting her arm,,
said with genuine kindliness : 

Because, my dear, if I may call you so,
for Miss Grey sounds stiff, and whether
you are Susan, or Sarah, or Sybil, you've
never told us  because I really do not think
this is the place for you. As Horatius
himself said, being interested, you know,
in everyone I like, a lady so young and
nice-looking ought hardly to have been put
in such a post. I was conscious of it
from the beginning. But I never spoke of
your age or your appearance to my brother,
They have been alluded to before him, but
such remarks seemed simply to go in atone
ear and out at the other. So I am
free from trouble on that score. But
other people make comments. Mrs. Preece
has done so. And I think, and Horatius
thinks, that another home would be more
suitable for you. Besides '

'Well: besides?' said Sydney, slowly.

Why, I must drop concealment, and

say to you as I did to my brother last
night, that I feel confident  yes, quite,
that you have soma matrimonial project
which may be brought to a happy crisis by
your quitting us. JN"ow, don't be offended,'
as Sydney started violently  '' I will be
quite frank. I have put things together
which you have said, and so on, the weekly
letter you are so particular over, and the
one that comes for you  " the gentleman's
letters," as that inquisitive-eyed Fanny called
them, though I've never seen even the
address of one  and I can quite see you
have had disagreement with your family.
But,'  with a gust of romantic fervour 
you and your lover have been con stand ! So
let me just write to this mother and sister of
yours, '' travelling in France," you know,
and tell them that you've earned a right to
be rewarded ! It's not that I want to lose
you. If I had the means we lost really

through that wretched Mr. Alwyn, why, I
would say, " Stop, Miss Grey !" Some one I
am told, has paid that unfortunate manes
actual creditors after all. But we have no
legal claim. No one thinks of our moral
one. So we must go injured to the end of
our days, and so must others, indirectly,
even you ! But, as I said to Gilbert, " it is
my firm trust that Miss Grey in leaving us
will gain her due. A home and a husband
such as she is fit for." Now, my dear, have
I not guessed right T

Over this excellent intentioned labyrinth
of words Sydney turned dizzy. What to
set right, what to leave unexplained, she
could not sift out. Deeply reddening,
then chill and pale, she was able only to
thank Miss Jean disjointed for her expressed
interest, interrupted by a brisk
Don't say a word about that. Our obligations
are equal. As I insisted on to Gilbert.

He was naturally taken up with
my prospects, and appeared to pay no
attention to yours ; kept walking at the
other end of the room and didn't answer
once till I said, '' Really, Gilbert, you ought
to wish Miss Grey prosperity in marriage
or anything else ! Don't let me have to
tell her you care nothing for her going
or staying !" Then he said '  (Sydney sat
motionless : but with hands so tightly
locked her father's small seal ring cut
deeply into the finger it encircled.)  " I
certainly care for Miss Grey's well-doing.
I have regretted her being here for months
past. She should be freed from us immediately."
No more breakfast?'  Sydney had
risen and had moved away.  ' Well, I am to
fetch the dear children to lunch and must be
going for them. Take a day or two to
determine what you wish. And ask me todo

anything you can think of for your
advantage !'

So ended Sydney's last lengthy conclave
with Miss Hurst. For during her remaining
days at Wynstone if the elated fiancee
was not holding charmed converse with
Mr. Babbington, Flurry's frocks or Horry's
food or Bella's boots or some willingly
antedated duty demanded her time, and
Sydney was left weary leisure in which to
chafe her spirit more and more sorely. Miserably
useless encumbrance, despite all her
cravings to serve them, no matter how
cruel the wrench, one hour she longed to
be away ; another, the prospects of him, who,
all uncaring, had drawn forth her love
never to be given back, the foresight of his
isolation, sympathy only too poignant with
that nigh fatal acme of his desolate sorrow,
and leaving him seemed impossible. But
very soon decision was imperative.

My brother's friend is not to be put
off!' Miss Jean announced the third morning
of Mr. Hurst's absence. * Of course I
open Gilbert's letters. Here is one from
that Mr. Drayton, and he means to look
round, as he calls it, the end of this month
or the beginning of next. He wishes for
no answer. May not be at home to receive
it. Which is all very well, but how does
he know if I can receive him ! There are
the rooms '

Sydney gathered up her resolution !
She would be gone before Eichard Drayton
came.

My holiday was to have been asked for
soon,' she said. ' Of course now you will
not want me back after it. Let me leave
directly. I will write to  to  where I shall
stay, and you will have room enough then
for your guest.'

And to this Miss Jean, inclined to be

provoked ant her continued reticence,
agreed somewhat stifSy, and Sydney took
the initial step towards departing, by
writing briefly to Jacob Cheene that in one
week's time she would be with him at .


CHAPTER X.

F/iREWELL.'

The next day Mr. Hurst came home.

Sydney saw him nearing Wynstone, very
erect but surely aged, with a face that
looked storm-beaten since that evening he
had gone out to Perristone wearing her
badge of wild white rosebuds. His footstep
past the poplars, his voice in the hall,
set all her pulses springing with delight
that refused to be gainsaid, but sight of
the steadily-forced smile with which he
entered, sound of his greeting words to
her subdued or cold, made her gladly
escape, with eyelids smarting over unshed

tears, while Miss Jean poured forth enquiries
anent his visit.

Just as I said !' was her discouraging
report when a few minutes later she followed
Sydney upstairs. * The case hopeless,
as I knew it to be. Poor Gilbert has only
flung thirty shillings away to hear what I
could have told him as well. Those thirty
shillings would have come in handy, but it
can't be helped. As I told him in all
kindness, it may be many a day before I
have another one pound ten to spare him
for an outing, so I do hope, once he got
over Dr. Legh's ultimatum, he managed
to get a little enjoyment out of this one !'

'In all kindness was poor Miss Jean's
battle phrase just now, used with implicit
belief that it represented her relationships
with her brother. * In all kindness,' she
fired off speeches in his hearing as to the
multitudinous expenses soon coming on

her, and the blessing of work to people
who could brace themselves to it : * in all
kindness,' she encouraged her soon-to-be
step-family about the house at all hours,
for  dear Gilbert' to grow used to them
before their final removal thither : and * in
all kindness she affectionately so contrived
to fill the situation with stings and
barbs that each day found Sydney more
hopelessly heartsick over this, the last turn
of fickle Fortune's wheel.

Mr. Hurst she saw seldom. Her speedy
going was spoken of before him often.
Himself he never named it. The few
words he addressed voluntarily to her
were marked by extremest reserve. The
subject neither could desire to approach
seemed to have raised an impassable bar
between them. The happier ease of late
months became a lost Eden, and every
minute Sydney stayed at Wynstone was
freighted with fresh pain.

But the very minutes were counted
now, for it was the noon she was to leave.
To satisfy Miss Jean's anxious hospitality
she had swallowed some of her last
luncheon ; had declined a supply of comestibles
for the journey.

Then you are not going far ?' queried
her hostess.

Not far, to-day,' was her answer,
registered as ' uncommunicative as usual !'
and then Miss Hurst was seized with the
fear that Davis, who should by now have
come for Sydney's luggage, had mistaken
the hour and might not come at all. She
must run down and see after him. She
would only be five minutes. Meanwhile
Miss Grey could take leave of her brother
and be ready to start when she came
back.

Outside the study door Sydney stood
with nerves all quivering ; knocked and

VOL. III. Q

went softly in ; looked from flower buds
clustering about the long casement and
books she had now done with, to the one
figure shut out from all, though in their
midst, with the syllables yearning of a
last farewell.

Mr. Hurst knew what brought her there.
He was ready with what to do and say.
As the door fell back, latched by a west
breeze, he got up from some letter he was
slowly writing and spoke first, the table's
breadth between them.

You leave us now,' he said, ' but I have
something here for you to read before you
do so ;' passing across a business-like
missive.

Sydney took it; read it. A short acceptance
of his book. An offered payment,
small, as the work was a first one, but a
suggestion that a more copious volume on

the same lines would be worth a larger
sum. ' An opening at last,' thought Sydney,
bitterly, ' and she must not help him
to use it !'

It reads like irony, does it not, Miss
Grey ?' was Mr. Hurst's comment, as if he
saw what passed within her breast. ' Still,
this lifts me out of a beggar's estate ! For
that release I have to thank you. This
will take me from Capel Moor without
further encroachments on my sister ; so
again I thank you.'

You too are going ?'

'Yes. To find my level among others
as sightless as myself. I am to make one
of Mr. Montague Carle's household. To
learn, and to teach, and to get my daily
bread under his orders. Mr. Babbington
suggests this scheme ; my sister desires it.'

 And you '

q2

I accept ifc. It is means to the only
human end my life may know. My sister's
relief. I thank God for that.'

To Mr. Montague Carle's ! Under his
roof ; his rule, hard, grasping, grinding,
vulgar, intolerable ! Sydney glowed, trembled
in angry revolt.

You can never go there she cried,
passionately, 'it is cruel '

Sto, no! They see no cruelty in it.
Like me, they see the necessity.'

But '  fiohtins: this fact  ' Miss Hurst
spoke to me of something else for you.'

Ah. To undertake, maimed as I am,
for loaves and fishes, what I never counted
myself fit for in more capable days. No.
This is better than that. I had a friend
once. Miss Grey, a Robert Yaughan, who
always held that solace of some sort lies
at the end of the road called straight, however
narrow, however rough it might be.'

sydney's eyes filled fast. Heaven send
he might so find it !) ' There was '  very
slowly  ' an hour when I forgot this.
Henceforth I must forget it no more.
When Jean in her great, sisterly goodness
willed to keep me with her  idle  I yielded
I for I had no right to risk money of
hers in seeking advantage for myself I
might never secure. That way was narrow
enough, but peaceful too. Now things are
altered. Brighter times seem come for
Jean. It would be unjust for me to mar
them. So I turn out  late, not unready 
on the rough way.'

(No calm could hide how he was suffering.
Her tears fell quick and silent. Oh,
to comfort him ! To comfort him !) ' I
would not have tired you with so much
about myself '  he had to be very careful
of each word now  ' only I would fain
have my  helper  of so many months

remember me fairly. At least as no worse
than I am.' He broke off abruptly. Sydney
could barely muster voice to answer him.

I will remember most, Mr. Hurst, that
you taught me very much. That while
you let me learn of you, I grew almost to
forget some great troubles.'

Troubles which may be nigh done with
now,' he returned ; * for,' mechanically
repeating the sentences he had drilled himself
in, * Jean tells me what she sees in
store for you. If she is right, there is
assuredly one cause for  for us  to be glad
at this break up.'

Glad  was he? Best so a thousand
times. And yet a momentary faintness
surged over her. Outside Miss Hurst
was heard. * Here, Davis. This is the
luggage. Be careful of it. We have no
time to lose.' Sydney moved nearer Gilbert
Hurst.

Then I can only bid you  good-bye,' she
said.

He leant against the chimney-piece ; his
usual fashion, as she first saw him at Vanstone.
Her own hand she held forth in
farewell. He knew it, but kept his arms
fast folded. For honour, for reason, he
must act the churl.

Good-bye,' he repeated, motionless.

Miss Grey !' cried his sister without ;
the door opened ; a rush of flower-scented
air filled the room ; it closed ; Sydney was
gone.

She never remembered clearly that walk
to Capel Moor station with Miss Hurst.
Belle Babbington ran out from the Manor
and claimed to join them. Davis brought a
great bunch of white stocks as a valedictory
offering from his ' missus ;' Miss Jean kept
up a stream of mysterious offers to write

anywhere ov do anything for her benefit,
and wafted salutes from the tips of her
fingers as the train moved off : but all this,
with the hot midday journey which ensued,
seemed only like a dream, herself an automaton
moving through it.

They were nearing Stillcote-XJpton when
she roused from this breathing space to
pain once more. To pain, and to dim hope,
struggling against readier unbelief in the
dictum Gilbert Hurst long before, she later
at St. Glairs, had learnt of their mutual
master, Robert Vaughan.

But even that was fated to more
conflict.

Her destination reached, she traversed
sleepy little Stillcote guided by landmarks
Jacob had pointed out last autumn. Past
the lodgings of his clerkly days, where her
father went to and fro each morning ; down
the quaint irregular High Street, where

shop folks stared at her, so evidently a
stranger; by St. Clements, its rectory
shadowed by the buttressed tower ; by
Stuartss, where guelder roses peeped at her
from the old walled-in garden ; and so towards
Jacob's dwelling.

She looked up at his bow window, longing
for the old man's smile ; the only one
in the world she could now count upon.
He had not written back to her, but she
never doubted his ready welcome. How
much she would have to tell him ; how much,
to withhold !

On Miss Ambler's shining knocker she
sounded a summons, modest enough, but
it set the echoes flying down the old town
and brought in immediate response a small
rosy-cheeked handmaid, with very red
eyes.

Mr. Cheene, Miss !' ejaculated Nancy,
as, too tired to wait for invitation, Sydney

entered while asking for him, 'oh, didn't
you know. Miss ? Hadn't nobody sent you
word of it ? Why  ' recklessly crumpling
a clean apron over her face ' poor Mr.
Cheene : he died o' Thursday, Miss, an
they've buried him only this very
morning' !'

CHAPTER XL

CONTAINS SURPRISES.

Only those who, strength and spirit spent
after many a fight, have dragged themselves
for a little respite, a little tender
healing to the one human source that
never yet has failed them, and found that
source cut off once and for all, only such
can tell what Nancy's announcement signified
to Sydney.

A great billow of despair seemed to
close over her, an unconsciousness of
everything save that another hard blow
had come upon her when her forces were

at their lowest ebb, and none of her once
full fund of buoyancy left to meet it.

Nancy's frightened cry to her mistress ;
Miss Ambler's scared appearance downstairs
: these were a blank, emerging from
which she found herself upon a slippery
chintz-covered sofa, the black-robed landlady
copiously sprinkling her with cold
water, while the excited domestic fanned
the air about into a temporary gale with
the Stillcote- Triton Weekly Express,

There, there,' said Miss Ambler, soothingly
as Sydney's great sad eyes opened
once more with sense and questioning.
You are coming-to as nice as can be.
Don't try to talk yet, miss. Nancy didn't
ought to have told you all of a sudden.
Shocks are bad ; I have had them, and
know. Here comes your luggage. You
lay quiet, miss, while I take it in. We're
ready for you, so to speak, for'  with a

sudden collapse into lachrymose condition,
' him that's gone, poor dear, had been
counting of your coming, and the room
at the back's been ready for you for weeks.'

The injunction to lie quiet Sydney
obeyed involuntarily, for every vestige of
power seemed to have left her. All the
battles she had gone through from last
year to this revenged themselves on her
vitality at once. As white as marble and
as still, she lay an hour and more without
a word, till a glimpse of Miss Ambler
creeping away a tip-toe with a countenance
of profound anxiety supplied a spur
to exertion which rarely found Sydney
irresponsive.

I am better,' she said, turning, with a
most wistful attempt at a smile, to the mellow,
late, afternoon light. ' Please don't
be frightened for me. And  will you tell
me  about it  now ?'

Miss Ambler, more exercised that
Sydney divined, had to cough and sniff a
great deal before she was equal to meet
this request; but presently, perched bolt
upright on the edge of the chair, since the
young lady made her sit, she managed to
give account of as happy an exit from this
troublous sphere as the best heart could
desire its best friend.

He talked a many times this month
past of when Miss Grey  he called you
Miss Grey '  Sydney made a movement of
confirmation, the slightest colour rising,
not unobserved  ' of when you were coming
for a holiday to him, and seemed as
pleased about it as a prince. He'd not
been well this winter, but he was always
cheery the days he got your letters. He
was looking for one this very time last
week, and spoke put-outline, for him, when
I carried him up another instead. *but,"

said he to me when I fetched his breakfast-things
down (for I waited on him myself,
Miss Grey, and marked his appetite, and got
him many a spring brocolow or new-laid
egg my own self since I could afford it,
for mean by nature Fm not, though close
by habit I've had to be), " Miss Amelia," he
says, " I'd no right to grumble at that
letter. It's brought me great news. I
shall tell you of it some day." And almost
every time I came to his room he seemed
to have been reading it, and I can't picture
how he looked, miss, but more glad and
young-like than I'd seen him these long
whiles. He played a deal of music that
day. Long pieces such as he learned forty
years ago with his rich master, as was
then. And at night, when I went to put
his sitting-room lamp out, he'd just finished
'' Auld Lang Syne," the tune the clock
at Stuartss used to play last thing before

he left, he's often told me. He was so
fond of it. He said " Good-night," and
went off sort of singing it. And he might
have been listening to it when he was 
sent for  Miss Grey. For in the morning,
when Nancy couldn't wake him, I went
and found him with a tear on his cheek
and a smile on his mouth as easy-looking
as a baby asleep. That was the morning
your letter came, miss, which,' said Miss
Ambler, after a gallant struggle with an
obstinate sob, ' which you'll find in poor
Mr. Cheene's rack upstairs, for, of course,
you'll like his room to yourself while you
stop here. Nothing would have pleased
him more than for you to use it. And till
the gentleman comes who knows what's
to be done with the things, it's freely
yours.'

Miss Ambler ended with a good hearty
cry behind her handkerchief. Sydney had

not yet reached that merciful easement.
But, stupefied as she still felt, the instinct
born with her name did not desert her.
This good landlady of Jacob's must not be
encroached upon.

From her purse she took out three
sovereigns.

If I may stay here while these last
she said, * I cannot tell you how thankful I
shall be. For,' moving her tired face into
shadow again,  I did so want this for a
home, a little while.'

With a curious look Miss Ambler pocketed
the gold, but if dissatisfied at the loose
bargain, showed no signs of being so, for
when the new lodger was fairly ensconced
amongst the old lodger's household gods
she was sedulous in her care, and made no
trouble of anything except Sydney's poor
patronage of the provision she offered.

But for days the oppression of mingled

VOL. III. R

pains kept Sydney in the bondage of an
inertia which to her bright ready activity
was as the thraldom of some heavy
illness.

Jacob gone : no one to speak to : her
every mental effort introspective : not a
line from her mother, to whom she had
written some ten days before leaving
Wynstone : sharply assailed by mistrustful
dread of her own doings  had her wilfulness
been wickedness all through, and so
had she thrust herself into her present
punishment ?  and above, beneath all emotions
else, like the dirge of sea waves
dominating every other sound upon the
shore, one passion beat, beat, beating at
her heart, restless as hopeless ; small wonder
was it that unuttered mourning darkened
the dreary length of that fair Midsummer,
threatening the very foundations
of her much-taxed courage.

Not until July's first week bad glided
by did the tense strain of morbid suffering
show signs of giving way. Then said
Miss Ambler one morning :

Miss Grey, if you go on getting paler
and thinner, and eating no more than my
tortoiseshell cat downstairs, it won't belong
before you are laid up on my hands,
and then I should like to know what's to
he done !'

This sent a wholesome thrill of alarm
through the girl. In such case, what
indeed would be done ? She was growing
strangely selfish. Taking Miss Ambler's
zealous services by far too easily. Unless
she meant to throw her burden most unfairly
on a stranger, she must rouse now
at once.

The day was delicious. Martins chirped
busily about the roof. The fresh air
seemed to say, ' Come out and taste me,'

band

Sydney's sense accepted the pure
medicine. She must make a beginning of
whatever her new course was to be. It
should date from her old friend's grave.
In the quiet little churchyard, which he
had taken greatly to when he had ' Taffy's '
tombstone placed there, Jacob Cheene was
laid.

How can I get to Lutterthorpe T
Sydney now asked.  For I will try not to
be ill, Miss Ambler. I ought to go out, I
know ; and I would rather go there than
anywhere.'

It was not exactly the excursion Miss
Ambler would have selected for her invalid
; but, seeing it was almost the first wish
Miss Grey had expressed, she wisely furthered
it. Brief journeys by rail took
Sydney to and fro between noon and
evening. Between the lettered record of
her earliest friend, the late turfed covering

of her last, she was granted the great
relief of not altogether regretful tears.
Here rested, after many cares, two faithful
uncomplaining natures. Wherein was she
more privileged than they, that she should
waste her gift of life in vain repining ?
iN'ay, rather should she be up and doing,
holding closer to that Presence of which the
solemn age-worn walls uprising near
seemed fitting sanctuary.

Tired completely, but more healthily,
she spent that day's twilight among
memory's less dangerous depths. Sitting
in her father's chair, turning poor Jacob's
cherished music pages over ; registering
those marked by her father's hand : and
about her sleep that night hovered notes
and chords of some long strain, unknown,
but strangely sweet, such as aforetime
had sounded often enough at Stuartss, unfinished
when next morning she awoke.

Waking, work lay before her. She kept
that fact written as it were in space,
spurred to it by a new ambition. What
she might earn need not be all her own.
Though parted from Gilbert Hurst, her
debt to him was not paid yet. However
distant, she might gather together and
send him, herself unsuspected, the means
to preserve him from entire dependence
on Mr. Montague Carle, or any other paymaster.
That hope stirred animation
once again. She would wait only a little
longer, till the effort to breathe, to eat
and drink were something less, then she
would go straight to the trading-wharf of
all nations, London, and backed by such
credentials as Major Yilliers could give her,
would hunt for the hardest labour she could
take at the highest pay.

One week more she would allow herself
at Stillcote-TJpton, if Miss Ambler would

have her, and when her landlady was retiring
with her early dinner-tray, she asked
if she might be harboured so long.

 And welcome !' was the emphatic
answer. * And I'd say for a month, Miss,
if I could make sure this furniture would
stand as it is so long. But an empty
room you couldn't dwell in ; and as for
asking you to take share of mine '

Oh, I would not, indeed,' cried Sydney,
shrinking from intrusion. *If you think
this will not be wanted for ten days more,
I will be gone before it is dismantled.'

With that last word her voice quivered.
It was difficult calmly to discuss these last
relics of her father, dear old Jacob's
treasures, being dispersed.

Ah, I'll answer now,' said Miss
Ambler. * You'd like a little something
out of here as a keepsake, like of poor Mr.
Cheene, wouldn't you, miss ? Now, if you'd

choose anything, I'd see it was bought for
you if the things are sold

She had no storing-place for aught.
Her very capital she would not count her
own.

It must be something small, indeed,'
she said, looking round.  This, if I could
have it,' taking up a well-used leather
writing-case, one from the office at Stuartss,
Jacob had told her.

Then that I'll get for you, miss,'
promised the landlady, shaking the dust
off the cover. ' Ah, deary me, he always
wrote upon it. I saw him that very
day-sydney

turned the much blotted pages
over. A sheet with some three written lines
slipped out. The words were to herself : 

My Own Dear Miss Sydney,

I told you

once pleasure never killed ; but when I
think I shall see you here so soon for your
holiday, and then '

That was alL Sydney folded the uncompleted
message with reverent affection,
thankfulness in her breast that no knowledge
of her new troubles had dimmed the
gladness of his last hours.

Yes, the old case I shall like best,' she
said, and Miss Ambler, delighted at securing
her pale lodger's interest for anything,
talked freely on of Jacob and his great
kindliness, ' which nobody. Miss Grey,
knew the value of better than myself, for
many's the time hunger and me would
have shook hands if it hadn't been for him,
and that's a fact I'm not above confessing,
and that's what I felt when I got a new
black gown for him. I've paid the last
respects to more than one friend, ah, and

relation too, in my black alpaca, but " no,"
said I, " for Mr. Cheene I'll have merino,
and new. I'm not going to walk behind
him in a half-worn skirt at sentence a
yard, especially considering there's no one
else to follow," for I didn't know, miss,
where you was, nor who  hem  whether I
ought to try and find you out.'

Who will attend to everything here
then?' Sydney asked. 'Had Jacob no relative,
no one who understood such business?'

Relative, no, miss. There were a many
Cheeses once in Stillcote, but he has told
me he was the last. As for business, I
don't suppose he's left much to attend to ;
but a stranger, I think, will manage that
little.'

A stranger ? He never told me of
anyone.'

'No, miss. But there was one who
came to him first last year. Later on

than this. He came in and out, and they
did a deal of consulting like for a day or
two, what about Mr. Cheene never said.
Then he came again since this Easter.
And Mr. Cheene must have expected him
then, for he'd got a neighbour to step in,
and by-and-by he called to me, "Miss
Amelia," and I stepped up, and he had that
very letter-case open and paper od, and he
said, " I'm lawyer enough to have made my
own will, and I want you to witness it.'
Which of course we both did, and Mr.
Cheene locked it up in the cedar box that
stands beside his bed, and said to me,
There now, it's ready for you to find," and
to the strange gentleman, * and for you to
act on," he said. So of course that gentleman
will be his executor.'

But should you not send this person
word ?' questioned Sydney, and was answered
truly enough.

When things come so sudden, miss, weare
never ready for them ! I had never so
much as heard his name ! But I've a
notion that the letter which brought good
news that morning came from him, for Mr.
Cheene locked it up in the box with his
will, and said to me  high-spirit like 
"We're going to be gay with company
soon, Miss Ambler." So I thought I'd
wait the month out, and then if I'd seen
nothing of anyone Pd just go down with
the box and ask our clergyman if he'd

open it, and find the gentleman's

Why, goodness gracious sakes alive !' Miss
Ambler broke off abruptly, startling Sydney,
whose attention had been wandering,
' Here he does come up the street, and
no mistake, and some one along with him !
And,' peering out of the window, ' they're
stopping at this door ! Don't you mind,
nor flurry yourself, miss. I'll tell him

about you, and say Mr. Cheene wouldn't
have had you disturbed for the world.
Perhaps,' hastily setting chairs at right
angles, * you'd like to go to your own
room if they wish to come up here ? I'll
run and stop that stupid Nancy bringing
them.'

But Miss Ambler was not quick enough.
As she opened the door two people entered
from the narrow landing. In an
instant three were gazing at each other,
all doubting the evidence of their own
senses.

Miss Alwyn !' exclaimed the male intruder
; it was Eichard Drayton.

Sydney ! Oh, my poor Sydney !' cried
the lady beside him, running to catch the
wonder-struck girl in her embrace. And
the rest of that minute was chaos to them
all.

The first to find voice was Miss Ambler.

Her wiry little curls were bobbing about,
her eyelids ominously red, and her sniffs
were frequent; but sentiment must wait
its turn, now she must out with a long
stifled say : 

Miss Alwyn !' she repeated, fronting
Sydney, still on Mary's shoulder. ' Yes,
and Miss Alwyn I knew sou to be these
months past, though I wouldn't vex him
that was here, by letting out what he
didn't see fit to tell me ! But when
Bridget Lewis, that lived once at Stuartss
still-room maid, and I taught hemstitch-
ing to when she was six years old, and
Las been to see me every time she set foot
in Stillcote-Upton since, no matter what
service she's been in, and knew all about
my family's misfortunes with poor Mr.
Alwyn, as well as I knew hers ; when
Bridget came two years back and told me
she'd been with her mistress, Mr. Massey's

lady wife, and seen where Mrs. Alwyn
had hid herself, and heard all about Mrs.
Alwyn's daughter, that couldn't be made
too much of, and Mr. Alwyn's that
couldn't be made too little ; and when she
come again a-visiting last Michaelmas to
Lady Wynne's, and brought word through
a housekeeping friend in that Suffolk
place, that the talk was Miss Alwyn had
got into disgrace for something with her
ma, and had gone away that summer : and
when I measured that against a young lady
I'd never seen before, coming here and
crying in Mr. Cheene's room, and then all
of us getting paid what Mr. Alwyn ewe
directly after, why, you don't suppose I
was going to be deceived any longer!
Miss Alwyn, my dear, I've recollected you
morning and night, from then till now,
and if the prayer of a retired haberdashery
old maid like me can fetch you prosperity.

you'll surely get it ! While  ' ended the
grateful old soul, suddenly clapping three
golden coins on the table, *as for that
money there ! I'm glad to have found
.you with the birds' beaks-full you've
taken, and if I touch a penny-piece for
payment my name's not Amelia Ambler !'

With which she seized her neglected
dinner-tray, and whipped out of the room,
leaving the long-separated friends to an
afternoon of strange, far-reaching explanations,
starting with Mary's marriage, ending
with something still more wonderful.

For Sydney, finding this fortnight-wed
pair possessed the secret of her leaving St.
Clairs, was now forced to tell where and
with whom her past twelve months had
been spent, and what had cast her loose
from Wynstone, sending her to meet at
Stillcote-Upton a loss she was so ill-prepared
for.

Jacob had made me feel his home was
almost mine,' she said, faltering. *When
he went from me '

He had taken care it should be quite
yours,' put in Mr Drayton. 'While he
lived I was bound to give no hint of it to
anyone  not even Mary ; but now, as you
will hear when I read you his will, he has
left you everything he had in the world.'

All my father's things !' cried Sydney.
Oh, dear old Jacob ! If you could hear
me thank you !'

Yes, Miss Alwyn ; these, and other
things that were your father's too.'

He told me he bought nothing else but
what  how did he put it?  what would
have just gone to light a fire !'

Ah, so they might then, but not now,'
returned Richard Drayton, drily. ' You
have never asked me yet, Miss Alwyn, how
I came to be acquainted with your old

VOL. III. s

clerk, nor what first brought me to .'


I have heard so much ; I am so glad to
have you here,' answered Sydney, laying
her head with a long-drawn sigh on Mary's
knee, ' I think I scarcely want to know anymore
yet.'

'Just five minutes,' pressed Mr. Drayton,
his wife giving him leave by a nod.
Best clear all up at once, and get it over.
So to go to first facts. I had a glimmering
when I first met you of having heard your
name, " Alwyn." After a bit I remembered
when. It was on some visit of mine to
a relative at Stillcote-Upton, who spent a
night each week violin-playing, with someone
so called '

 My father!' ,

As it turns out, yes. You and 1 never
seemed strangers, did we, Miss Alwyn?
That old network of intimacy must have

had something to do with it. Well, now
for the next thing. You remember when
T came to England it was to take up a
little estate in the south. On that bit of
property was a mine. The lease of it had
been purchased of my uncle for fifty years.
It had been closed sixteen. Was worthless,
most folks said. I'd had some training in
other mines, examined all I could of this,
and thought differently. To see if I was
right, I worked with all my money and all
my time for fourteen months, for on the
mine's value depended my chance of getting
through with a scheme I think you
understood.' Sydney smiled up at Mary.
 I found out that mine had been wrecked
partly by incapable, partly by rascally
management. Not the first time that sort
of thing has happened. I saw my way
clear as daylight to reconstructing a
paying concern. I laid my plans accords



ingle. Went to St. Clairs, to find you 

'Mel'

Yes, for it was the same Granfylde
mine your father had got ruined in. His
name headed the old list of shareholders.
If you, as his representative, had held the
original shares, your leave as largest proprietor
was required to re-forming the
business. Well, you were gone; no one
knew where, nor could tell why. I was on
my way to hunt up Mrs. Alwyn abroad,
when I fell in with Major Yilliers in town,
and told him what I was after. He saved
me a fruitless journey, by telling me those
same shares had been offered at your
father's sale, and amid shouts of laughter
had been purchased by a clerk named
Cheene. Him I foraged up forthwith.
Showed him every single detail I had worked
out, and to cut short a long business,
which would only puzzle you at present,

got his consent and that of the other remaining
shareholders, to start the company
afresh on a safe footing, myself holding a
certain amount of stock, and acting as
manager. Success has followed so fast,
that the shares have gone up without one
check, and are still rising. I was able to
tell Mr. Cheene when I saw him last May,
that his few shillings-worth of scrip, which
he almost saved from the flames, represented
now a very respectable fortune.
It would bring in, if realized, five-and-twenty
thousand pounds, tomorrow, Miss
Alwyn.'

So no more companions' places for you,
foolish reckless child that you were,' said
Mary, stooping fondly over Sydney's dark
head, and to his wife's gentle care and
caresses Mr. Drayton wisely left this new-made
heiress awhile, almost mute in her
great astonishment.

CHAPTER XII.

SYDNEY DRIVES A BARGAIN.

It was all true enough, incredible as the
change seemed at first.

There were questions innumerable to ask
that evening though ; loose strands of the
story to knit together ; the homely words
of Jacob's legacy to his dear master's child
to read  the Drayton marvelling much
over that grateful fidelity, whereof the
source was and will always be known to
Sydney alone. There was Mr. Vaughan's
satisfaction to anticipate ; and that retributive
quest which tracked the unscrupulous
pillager of the mine's funds

to his last bold stroke in Paris to be
recounted ; but one and all tended to the
same issue.

Sydney was found ; free, rich, and  -
happy ?

About this Mary Drayton soon began to
feel perplexed, not altogether satisfied.
With wits quickened by her own new
happiness, she was not slow at detecting a
flaw in her friend's.

The Sydney regained was as dear and as
trustful as the Sydney lost last year, and
in twenty ways more beautiful, but she
was not the same. Something was hidden
under those smiles which vanished as soon
as they flashed out ; under that anxious
attention which now and again forgot what
was being talked of ; and what that something
was Mistress Mary set herself to discover,
making before they parted for the
night these notes : 

First  that Sydney lost not one syllable
of what Richard Drayton had to say concerning
Mr. Hurst, from schoolboy tales to
the record of his manful bearing, when
the doom of darkness was newly passed
upon him.

Next  that she held her breath, distressed
and pale, when he deplored the
mischances which made such a man as
Gilbert Hurst penniless, and vainly wished
the old rector father had not in angry disgust
let his luckless shares go to some
speculator who now crowed over his
bargain.

Then  that when he spoke of getting to
Wynstone soon, Sydney's bosom rose and
fell more quickly. She looked at neither
of them, but her lips parted, curved with
uncertainty, closed with determination ;
and her eyes darkened and brightened with
concealed excitement.

From all of which observant Mrs. Drayton
deduced certain ideas, and watched
next day to have them confuted or confirmed.


They were with Sydney then by noon.
Miss Ambler had tyrannised over her, and
not allowed her up much earlier. She
met Mr. Drayton almost reproachfully.

I thought you were going to Wynstone !'

 But not to-day. We have recollected
ever so many more things to talk about,
Miss Alwyn.'

Before which, as you have not gone,'
she said, with nervous gravity,  I have
one I v/ant you both to listen to. For ' 
taking refuge in her father's chair, Mary
beside her, Richard Drayton opposite 
'after all, you see, this money you call
mine, is not actually so.'

Then whose is it ?' exclaimed Mr.
Cheene's executor.

I meaD,' she went on, * some of it is
due to some one else. It was my father's
advice which made Mr. Hurst lose his four
thousand pounds, was it not ? So before
I use any at all that must be given back,
and, if you please, Mr. Drayton, you must
give it directly.'

I won't promise I would if I could,' was
that gentleman's reply, * fortunately I have
not to decide. It can't be done. For,
Miss Alwyn, your insatiable desire to give
away all you have appears to have been
understood by Mr. Cheene. You were too
much in a maze yesterday to notice the
wording of his will. Your shares in the
Granfylde mine are not to be sold out till
they touch a certain figure. I told him
they would unquestionably reach it, and
he showed his confidence in me by phrasing
his legacy to that effect. Then the

sum, about what your father, if prosperous,
would have left you, is to be funded
for your life. Anything beyond that
amount, you do what you choose with.
But you could not possibly lay your hands
on four thousand pounds yet to repay the
Hursts. If you could, trusted as I have
been by Mr. Cheene to guard you and
your property, it would be my duty to try
to dissuade you.'

Which you might try,' Sydney blazed
forth, vehemently, ' and you should not doit,
Mr. Drayton ! Oh,' dropping swiftly
from this high flight into downright coaxing,
' Jacob meant it for the best, but he
never would wish his money to make me
sorrowful. Do, dear Mr. Drayton  Mary,
ask him for me, he won't say " no " to you
do show me some way to give those
thousands back to the Hursts. They were
very good to me !'

This petitioning, coupled with a glance
at his wife, took effect.

Perhaps it might be managed by
degrees,' answered Mr. Drayton cautiously,
if done at all. If Miss Hurst is willing  *

She won't refuse it,' Sydney said,
eagerly :

 And her brother can be persuaded to
accept it,' (no confirmation forthcoming on
that point), ' so much might be returned
them year by year. If you are bent on
doing it.'

I am. When can they have the first ?'

When you like ; if Gilbert Hurst
agrees.'

Make him !' cried Sydney. ' You can
do it. But one thing please don't tell
them. That Miss Grey and Miss Alwyn
are the same. I need be Miss Grey no
longer; even my mother,'  pointing to a
letter arrived that morning, ' gives me

leave to be myself. She has been ill, and
so forgot, she says, to send your last note
to me, Mary. She writes so sadly, calling
us all so poor now that she cares nothing
any longer for what name I work under !'
But to the Hursts let me be only Miss
Grey still. Let them think if they take this
back they take it from a stranger. It will
save  me  pain, to have it so.'

Mary was distinctly shaking her head
behind the speaker.

 I couldn't undertake that, I don't think
it practicable,' her husband answered. ' It
would surely get to them who you were.
Best be above-board at once, Miss Alwyn.'

She looked at him with distress not to be
explained.

But you will make  them, take the
money ? Bind them to do it somehow !'

Mary's mouth formed a visible ' no.'

I fear my urging would be of no uses

responded Richard Drayton, a model of
marital obedience. ' Mr. Hurst will treat
the matter as I should, unless he is
singularly changed. He will prefer any
species of work to mulcting a generous
woman in this way.'

But oh, if he knew how refusal would
hurt me !' she cried, leaning forward with
hands clasped.

Mary made expressive signs at the supple,
entreating figure.

If you told him that yourself he might
be induced to take your view of it,' conceded
Mary's spouse, ' but / couldn't tie
myself to persuade him.'

Go with Richard and me to Wyn stone,'
suggested Mary, bending over the girl,
then, you know, dear, you can put it in a
business way, and settle it all perhaps in a
few minutes.'

The best way possible, unless you

prefer writing to Miss Hurst  Mrs. Babbington,
whatever she is V coincided Mr.
Drayton.

Sydney changed colour. That arch-plunderer
Miss Jean might so convey her
offer that Mr. Hurst would infallibly reject
it. The best, perhaps only chance of
extorting his acceptance of it might lie in
her urging it herself on some such pretext
as had lured him into book-making.
Drooping, for this pang she was courting,
to meet, to leave him again, pierced her
before time,

Then I think I will go,' she said ; and
having chosen this course a feverish haste
possessed her to start forth upon it. ' Shall
you, shall we, start to-day?' she asked.

To-day ! Why, Sydney child, you need
a week's nursing before you set out on that
expedition !'

I want no nursing. I am exceedingly

well, Mary ;' this in hot haste : then sinking
back wearily : ' And I can come here
afterwards, you know. Miss Ambler will
take care of me then.'

Mary is wise. We should put Vanstone
off for a few days, I think,' said Mr.
Drayton.

And let Mr. Babbington oust Miss
Hurst's brother, and fling him into the
pleasant toils of Mr. Montague Charles !
And you call that being his friend !'
cried Sydney, brimming over with indignation.


then suppose we say tomorrow,'
yielded the gentleman ; his commander-in-chief
having telegraphed to that effect.
And ' tomorrow,' soon after mid-day, they
went.

From efforts at most charming cheerfulness
 reward for their concession  Sydney
subsided, as they neared Capel Moor, into

speechlessness, and, as they traversed the
lane to Wynstone, now paced in front of
her companions, now lagged behind in a
mood decipherable only by one of her own
sex. Mrs. Drayton's own pulse went a
trifle faster from certain conjuring up of
her usually placid imagination ; but her
fancies she loyally kept to herself  bride
though she was.

I'm afraid Miss Alwyn won't accomplish
what she is come for,' said Mr. Drayton,
as they passed the church : Sydney lingering
by the gate.

We shall see,' returned his oracle, and
just then a trim west-country lass met
them ; looked at the unknown pair inquisitively,
at Sydney with broad saluting
smile and a curtsey.

Miss Grey back, I do declare now !
But they're not expecting of you, are they,
Miss, 'cause mistress gave me half a day

VOL. III. T

to go to mother's. But, if you please, I'll
run back again, and be ready to open the
door before you get there ; yes, indeed !'

And so lose your holiday, Fanny !' said
Sydney. *No, you shall not do that. Weare
only  making a call.'

*But, Miss,' expostulated the maid,
rebecca's in the garden-piece picking
strawberries. She'll never hear the bell,
and for sure, she's that slow she'll take
five minutes answering it. And strangers,
too,' with a side curtsey at Miss Grey's
friends. * Let me run back, Miss.'

They mind waiting no more than I do.'
(Truly, Sydney was grateful for the
respite. Like a coward, she was wishing
herself a thousand miles away.) ' Shall
we find all  both  at home ?' That much
she must know.

Yes, Miss, as yet. But come Monday,
they're a-going off. Mr. Hurst into Welsh

Wales, and smothering a chuckle, 'and mistress
somewheres to a Mrs. Greaves, Mr.
Babbington's sister's, to get married yon !
The road's dusty a bit up, Miss Grey : won't
you go in by the orchard ?' volunteered
Fanny, departing with another curtsey.

Yes, that we will,' said Mary Drayton,
covering Sydney's silence adroitly, with
complaints of the heat, and taking the
shadier way, they just contrived to escape
seeing or being seen by Miss Hurst, who,
with many assurances to her brother that
she should not be half-an-hour absent,
started at that precise minute from her
own porch to the Manor House.

Oh, the river, the river, and the hill !'
cried Mary, enthusiastically, as the new
un-Suffolk like scenes opened out. ' Sydney,
you never made half enough of what
you had to leave. It is a picture I could
look at alone for hours.'

T 2

Suppose you look at it for ten minutes
with me instead,' laughed her husband
drawing her nearer (that couple have not
discarded honeymoon habits to this day),
I believe Miss Alwyn would find it easier
to say what she intends to Hurst and his
sister without us two sitting by listening.
Then we would put in an appearance presently,
and do our share of persuasion if
necessary.'

For the fluttering as of some caged bird
in her breast, a tightening uncontrollable
in her throat, Sydney could only agree by
a gesture, and passing  since it had to be
done  quickly from the orchard by the
garden front, so meant to reach the
entrance of the house. But the study-window
stood wide open, bunches of yellow
roses  indistinguishable buds when she
left  now wreathing it in a golden frame ;
and within her dear, deserted laboratory 

she held her hands tight over that crazy
beating  within was Gilbert Hurst, alone.
So lightly she had trodden the soft turned
lawn, he had not heard a single step fall.

The room disordered, littered with books
piled anyhow in careless heaps (shame I)
he half knelt, half leaned by the chair that
had been always Sydney's. "With sad,
brown eyes turned all unseeing upon some
object in his grasp, pale as the girl who,
in the throes of hopeless love, gazed on
him, he was speaking, ignorant of any
human watch, deeming the walls of the
empty house his only confidant.

Had she torn herself away she must
have betrayed her presence by a sob. To
hear his very own thoughts just once more
was an offence the bitterness of a new,
intense regret must expiate. Bound to
the spot, she looked ; listened ; and this is
what she heard :

Dearest ! sweetest ! But never mine !
Darling, lost darling, why did you leave
me ? How could I let you go ?' (She
was blanched now as the tall lilies near).
Then, with a hard, hard groan, ' Oh, man!
Oh, madman that you are, be still and bear
it ! Think of her as your treasure, that
won't hurt her. Keep her one gift,' he
opened his hand ; took out  she leant forwarder,
forwarder, to make sure, with lips
full reddening again, a blush like morning's
dawn upon her face  a little, withered
bunch of wild flowers she well knew, bound
with a thread of silk, touching it with a caress
as tender as mothers spend upon a sleeping
babe ; * keep it, and let it teach you to
thank God above, He took her from you 
gave her to  some good Fate. So may it
be, but  oh, it's torture !'

The strong frame was racked, bowed.
Suffering, not well to be written of, forced

scalding drops from eyes denied the world's
delights.

And how about that listener now ?
Throbbing, trembling, yearning ; the etiquette
of ceremonious entrance went to
the winds. Her face all glorified with
longing devotion, she drew back, crying to
a lark that, springing from the meadow,
went carolling up to the clear sky, 'Ah,
then, little noisy one ! You have not forgotten
to sing since I went away, though
all the other birds have turned so idle !'
Then she waited ten seconds ; took a great
breath, and went to the study-window.

Gilbert Hurst had reached it with a
stride, doubting his own ears. They stood
now close together.

Mr. Hurst, I have come back.'

It is true.'

He thrust one hand within his waistcoat,
the other he put to his forehead, wrestling

with a deadly weakness ; then said, ' I
thought it could be only you speaking. I
am sorry my sister is not in ; she will be
home soon. Glad, of course, to see you.
Hasanythinghappeued to make you return ?
Is there anything we can do for you ?'

Yes,' Sydney answered him, ' a great
deal has happened. May I tell you ? May
I sit down ?'

She [was shaking too much to stand.
He reached her own chair to her, but took
his own old place by the littered bookshelves.
 I forgot to offer that,' he said, ' I
beg your pardon.'

Don't,' Sydney said, ' for I have come todo
that of you, Mr. Hurst, and of  Miss
Jean. For I have been  deceiving you.'

'What!' he cried, 'you  deceiving us?'

Only in one thing. I am Miss Grey,
but that's not all my name. I am someone
you saw  ah, many years ago : a child

then : and you promised not to hate me.'

'Why,' he exclaimed, you cannot mean
that you are '

Yes, Sydney Alwyn. Child of him who
Miss Jean says ruined your life. But you
said you forgave him. How I have thanked
you for it. I knew nothing of owing you
anything when I came here. I could not
pay you when I found it out, for all I had
was gone So I worked to do it till Miss
Jean and you sent me away. But I never
paid a tithe enough. Still I was trying,
and  you do forgive me.'

He was profoundly moved, even to seeming
forgetfulness of the pleader.

Jean, Jean !' he said, * to drive her to
that slavery for me !'

You will forgive me ?' she begged on.

Forgive ? Why, what, Miss Alwyn ?'

My being who I am. Stopping in this
shelter as 1 did.'

 Yes, I forgive both counts,' he said,
slowly, if you must have the very words.'
(Fondly she let her full glance rest on his
worn, patient features. She knew now
what her being there had cost him.) * But
surely you are not come back to say this
only.'

No. I want you to show you pardon
me. I came this time to say that I am
rich now. Such strange things have been
happening. I have a friend who is yours too
Mr. Drayton. He will tell you how my
father's money is returning to me. But I
cannot use it till you say I may pay you  
somehow  you and Miss Hurst, all that
my father made you lose.'

He brought himself to his full height.
That can never be, Miss Alwyn. Such debt
is the creation of poor Jean's sentiment.
Don't tempt her, don't ask me to stoop so

low as to load ourselves with your bounty
under the poor pretence of justice.'

She knew he would refuse, though the
alternative to his proffered liberation had
to be Mr. Montague Charles ! She
triumphed in his words : proud of his
pride. But she said : 

 Then all my money is to be valueless.
I am to enjoy none of it, because you will
not have this little.'

He felt her merciless, this rich young
woman. It was getting more than he
could stand.

Our taking it,' he answered, huskily,
could make no real difference to your
happiness, Miss Alwyn. It would destroy
all chance of mine. Will you let that have
some small weight with you ? Spend
your wealth with  him who will soon
claim you. Forget, though I shall not,

that you ever made this generous offer.'

She hung her head.

No one will claim me,' she said, with a
wondrous soft distinctness, 'I  suppose.
It  that was all a mistake of Miss Jean's.'

At this an ungovernable exclamation
escaped him. He started violently. Out
from their hiding-place dropped the withered
flowers.

Sydney had them in an instant.

You have only let fall some worthless
rosebuds, Mr. Hurst. I will fling them
away.'

They are mine, Miss Alwyn. Give
them to me,' with hand extended in
desperate earnest for his treasure.

Let me gather you fresh ones.'

No, no ) those, if you please. I must
have them.'

You shall not,' she said, ' till you
promise to take that money.'

Then rob me, if sou choose,' he cried,
worked into all but frenzy by passionate
pain, ' but I will not rob you !'

You need not rob me at all she said,
just loud enough for him to hear,  Take  
me  too.'

There was a long minute's pause.
Gilbert Hurst shrank back, then stood at
bay. Sydney stole to him as only a true
woman would have dared. He felt her
following, put his hand out as to repel
her. She took it, clasped it softly in her
own.

I did something else, the most wicked
of all,' she whispered, ' but I am not
sorry for that. I was by the window a
little while before I spoke. I saw you  I
heard you.'

He gave a sigh that was grievous.

And would marry me  God forbid  for
pity !'

'No, Gilbert she said, with a splendid
boldness that bade his soul be comforted,
for love ! Only for love !'

And when his arms were about her, his
heart to hers, her sweet kiss answering his,
he believed at last, with such a deep
rejoicing as made the hour sacred to both
for ever.

CHAPTER XIII.

SHAKE HANDS ALL Found, GOOD FRIENDS.'

The whole business was a very bitter pill
to Mrs. Alwyn, restoring as it did her
younger daughter to the precise position
she herself had abdicated with such ill
grace and in such singular ill-odour.

But that last lamentable fiasco with
Leonora had thrown her into very real
illness. Sydney, hurrying to Paris, had
nursed her mother with self-denial scarcely
appreciated  for did she not know someone
the other side the Channel counted
every day a week till she was by him ?

and common recognition of the tender
zeal she might have died for lack of left
to poor Leonora only, tied Mrs. Alwyn's
tongue on subjects impossible to be agreed
upon by her and her attendant.

I presume any attempt on my part to
dissuade you from throwing yourself away
as you propose doing would be useless,
Sydney?' was her nearest approach to
argument on this topic.

Perfectly useless, mamma Sydney
answered gently; and Mrs. Alwyn, weak
and disarmed at this stage of her convalescence,
bowed to the inevitable, though
in after time and better health she was not
sparing of hints among her acquaintances
that her life had been greatly hampered,
her income (by some mysterious reckoning
of her own) much narrowed by the doings
of a daughter who, * with some admirable
points, never knew what it was to submit

to a mother, never could bear to be
guided !' and on that score she secured a
good deal of sympathy from a new circle of
intimates.

Her one parent being unequal to the
exertion of superintending a wedding,
Sydney was married in early autumn from
the Dray tons', the Dacier coming down to
Granfylde for the double pleasure of the
event and a delighted inspection of their
daughter's new domain. And there, self-elected
groomsmen, came Sydney's old
fellow-scholars, charmed with all brought
about by these late changes, especially
their new watches (not silver !), and there
came the rector of St. Glairs, sharing
keenly the joy of these two people to
whom he had been ever drawn as kinsfolk
in spirit though not in blood, and from
whose union he went back to his parish
acknowledging, as he does at every parting

VOL. III. U

from them since, that He who directs men's
lives planned well their separate sorrows,
which now are merged in mutual happiness
so full and true.

The Barrington being in full possession
of Wynstone  where, however,
ample room, Horatius says,' was at the
disposal of Mrs. Babbington's brother till
September  Gilbert Hurst and his wife, unfettered
by house or establishment, went
further and further south till they wintered
on another continent, and there saw the
seasons round before returning to
England.

During their absence, Mrs. Alwyn took
up residence in a tiny London house on
the skirts of a fashionable square, and with
perseverance worthy of a better cause began
sweeping the matrimonial seas once more
for Leonora's behoof.

The labour was shortened unexpectedly.

Mr. Rupert Yilliers came dutifully to pay
bis respects to his aunt, his compliments to
his cousin. About Leonora's broken engagement
the Major had withheld all
particulars. He was not the man to gossip
even with his son over a woman's dis .
appointment. The ladies soon found to
their relief that nothing of the pseudo Mr.
Morecoombe- Wood's history was known to
anyone likely to retail it.

The man was unworthy of my Leonora!
never name him to me ! Only help her to
forget him !' Mrs. Alwyn begged, and Mr.
Rupert obeyed very literally.

He found the cultivation of cynicism
slow for a lengthened period. Mrs. Alwyn's
straitened means ' (she kept Sydney's
hundreds strictly to herself) were not contemptible,
taken in conjunction with a
stock of valuable furniture. What washers
was Leonora's. Leonora was handed



some still, especially by candle-light.
Presently the young lady took to wearing
a certain sapphire ring given her on a very
memorable occasion. Upon that hint Mr.
Villiers spake, with the result that before
another season began he was inducted as
ostensible master of * Number twenty-three,
Gladys Crescent.'

They suit in their new positions excellently.
After his and her own self, each
one admires the other to the end of conceit's
demands. But they never trouble
each other with too much of confidences ;
so when one day Mr. Yilliers read aloud
from his paper the tragic end in a San
Francisco gambling saloon, of a gambler
of European reputation, whose description
he well recognised, he felt under no necessity
to confess that he had had many
dealings with this questionable character,
nor did he dream that the rascal put an

end to by a Californian knife, was at one
time near standing in the marital shoes he
now wore so easily.

Major Villiers took his son's settlement
with moderate satisfaction.

It wasn't the one I wanted, more's the
pity for you, Rupert,' he said, and, though
fairly reconciled to life and his lot, Mr.
Rupert once allowed himself to echo that
regret.

It was at a big gathering the year after
he had married, to which, after much
toadying of a society magnate, he had got
himself and Leonora invited, and where,
among a throng of name and rank they
had found themselves nobodies. A good-tempered
fellow, seeing him forlorn (it was
Tufter, by the way) spent five minutes in
pointing out the notabilities of the evening,
among them :

That tall fellow with the brown beard.

He's blind, though you'd never guess it.
He's written a book on Upper Egypt that's
all the rage among the blues just now.
Some association got him up to lecture this
afternoon, and my lord president nabbed
him for to-night. That dark-eyed woman
everyone is looking at against him is his
wife. Eh ? do you see her, Villiers ?'

Villiers did see her as she stood, one
hand on the arm of her companion, who
talked to a group of celebrities. Soon he
was elbowing his way towards her.

Mrs. Hurst,' he said, accosting her with
an air of delicate melancholy, ' this is an
unexpected tri  pleasure. How little I
guessed I was to meet you to-night.'

We stayed unexpectedly,' she answered,
a momentary shyness, for she remembered
their last interview, enhancing all her
charms.

Is it too late ?' he said, in a lowered

key, ' or may I dare to ask if you hold me
excused for  two years ago ?'

Now she was self-possessed again ; looked
through him, down upon him, from the
royalty of her beautiful young maidenhood.

'I hold you fully excused,' she said,
and am myself immeasurably grateful to
you.'

She turned to her husband with the
perfection of contentment. Mr. Villiers,
very sorry indeed for himself, went and
found Leonora in a remote corner, told
her, morsels she had powdered too freely,
and took her off home without vouchsafing
the information that her step-sister was
one of the brightest stars in the brilliant
throng they were leaving.

But the Hursts are rarely in London,
though preferment of society and science
is ready enough for them there if they
cared to take it.  Stuartss ' was in the

market when they came back to England,
and now, cleared to the last payable
farthing of the debt poor John Alvvyndied
under, ' Stuartss ' is their home.

There old friends and new come about
them. Major Villiers often, the Coming
once. Miss Ambler when she wills.
Thence go forth other works by Gilbert
Hurst and that co-labourer whom only few
know of, which earn him wide publicity
and praise and bring in revenue which
now he little needs.

For under Richard Drayton's prudent
management Granfylde sends a steady
stream of riches on them, and Sydney declares
if she had nob Gilbert to tell her
what channels to turn it into she should
be perplexed out of all enjoyment of this
troublesome, ever-expanding wealth.

Troublesome indeed ! Why, what is it
Mrs. Gilbert Hurst likes better ?

This.

She came silently the other day upon
her husband and their five-year-old daughter
in deep conclave under one of the exhausted
blossoming limes in their garden.
The sun shone through the leaves. The
sky above was intensely blue. To life's
beginner the world looked very fair. Said
the little one, finishing a thought aloud : 

But it doesn't matter for that.'

*And what does not matter for what,
sweetheart?' her father asked.

 Your being blind, father ; for just the
things that are pretty. But oh, I do wish
you were not blind for something else !'

What is it ?'

 To see mother. She is such a beautiful
mother.'

Gilbert stretched his arm over the grass
and gathered the child to him.

*I know that, little one, without any

seeing. And shall I tell you something
more wonderful? That dear mother of
yours grows more and more beautiful tome
every single day of our lives !'

'Flatterers!' she said, happy tears in
her eyes, her hand on her child's brown
hair, her head on her husband's shoulder.

And there was Sydney Hurst's best
cherished wealth !

