CHAPTER I.

THE SQUIRE AND THE COLONEL.

\ Hidden and very remote among the Surrey
hills,  away from men and towns little
haunted by tourists, except of the artist
kind, approached by narrow and intricate
lanes, which wind between deep banks
among the woods, and climb up and down
breakneck hills from one valley to another,

VOL. I. I

lies Red Towers, the old house belonging to
Paul Romaine.

It is six miles from the station, and two
from its parish church and village of Holm ;
but it is not quite lonely, for it stands on
the edge of a clearing in the woods  a small
common, crossed by sandy roads, which come
up here into the light, on the high ground,
before plunging down into shadows and
hollows again. On the common there are a
few low stone cottages, their gardens almost
invaded by bracken and heather, and sheltered
by tall pines, the advanced guard of the wood.

At one corner of the common stands the
little new house that was built for Canon
Percival ; at the other end, nearly opposite
the gate of Red Towers, is the quaint old
dark cottage where Colonel Ward lived for
many years. Red Towers itself cannot be
seen from the common, beings hidden in

depths of wood ; but it is the great house of
the place.

Houses, cottages, woods, all those sandy
unprofitable tracts of wild ground, belong to
Paul Romaine. He is landlord and lord of
the manor there, with a power and independence
that many greater landlords might
envy. His forefathers have been in the
same position for three hundred years.

One Sunday afternoon in September, a
few years ago. Colonel Ward and Mr.
Romaine, and six or seven dogs, were coming
back from a walk together. The two men
were as different from each other as intimate
friends could be. Colonel Ward was sixty,
short, grey, and close-cropped ; he was very
upright and military, with blue, clear-seeing
eyes, and he was not at all afraid of using
his cane on dogs or children, who, however,
invariably made friends with him.

1  2

Paul Romaine, who was the Colonel's
friend by right of inheritance, in succession
to his father, was a tall young fellow of
three-and-twenty, so quiet in look and
manner as to give outsiders no idea of the
talents that had taken a First Class a few
weeks before. He strolled along, slouching
carelessly, by the Colonel's side ; his eyes
looked half asleep ; his dark face, rather
thin and delicately cut, expressed nothing
bat a sort of indifferent content. Paul was
not a great talker, except now and then,
when he had something to say. He let the
Colonel talk, and knew how to listen 
which is not so easy as one thinks, and
which no stupid man was ever capable of

They came up out of the dark, soft deaths,
the deep silence of the fir wood, a real thing
that day, for not the faintest wind was stirring*.
They crossed the common among

dying heather and great yellow fronds of
bracken, and red blackberry brambles flung
across the narrow paths that children and
dogs had made. Opposite them, the chimneys
of Canon Percival's house stood up against
a clear sky and lower levels of wood, not fir-wood
there, but masses of varied leaves beginning
to change.

Colonel Ward flourished his stick towards
the chimneys.

 Why did your father do that, Paul V he
said. ' Spoilt the place, spoilt the common,
and all for nothing. They never come here,
and perhaps it is as well they shouldn't. But
it brings interlopers  artists, and all kinds of
rubbish. We have had horrid people there
this summer  vulgar, unpleasant people.
Yes, Mrs. Percival liked it at first, but she
is tired of it now.'

They are coming next month,' said Paul.

No ! Are they?' exclaimed the Colonel,
in a voice of the greatest delight.

As soon as his residence is over. What's-hispania
is going back to India.'

That's a good thing,' said Colonel Ward.
You don't like him, Paul, do you V

We don't get on much,' said Paul.

I bet you don't. The most conceited
puppy I ever met  correcting me about
things I knew before he was born. People
tell me all vouno- fellows are like that, but
I don't believe them. Can't imagine how
the Canon can stand such an ass in the
house ; but he never' had much sense.'

Paul laughed. ' But you're singular, you
know,' he said. ' Most people like Vincent
about there. He's a great swell in the Close.'

Ah ! the Close !' said Colonel Ward
wickedly. ' Yes, I dare say he suits them
well : they make a fine hero of him.'

Well, they are all very jolly,' said Paul
in his lazy way.

They were now walking side by side along
the road that led to their two houses, ]mst
the shady garden of the post-office, and one
or two other cottages. The Colonel's eyes
were everywhere ; Paul looked absently
straight before him.

Don't oro in too much for these clerical
people,' said the Colonel. ' Your father
was the finest man that ever lived, and my
greatest friend ; but I never could understand
his friendship for old Percival. And
not giving him up, too, when he married
the woman we were all in love with. However,
your father was not so far gone as I
was, Paul  of course not  your dear mother
soon consoled him. For my part, I never
could forgive Percival.'

You don't seem revengeful,' said Paul.

It seemed necessary to say something,
though he knew all this by heart, having
heard the whole story from Colonel Ward a
hundred times before.

 I'm civilized, of course ; I can't show
my feelings,' said the Colonel. ' Besides,
Mrs. Percival must always be her old self
to me ; and she knows it. She knows she
can count upon me. I don't believe in
being faithless to old friends, Paul.'

Well, my father and the Canon were
friends at school.'

Ah, well, your father was right, of
course. But Percival was never good
enough for him. A hollow sort of chap ;
and those men do more harm than good,
especially when they go into the Church,
which ought to keep up its character.
No ; I never cared for your seeing so much
of-percival.'

 I couldn't help it, as he was my guardian
said Paul, ' and they have always been
awfully good to me.'

What a strange thing that was, now !'
said Colonel Ward. ' As if one guardian
was not enough for a fellow. I could have
managed you and your affairs well enough
by myself, and I should have arranged
things rather differently. You are a fine
fellow, no doubt, with your degree, and soon
; but in my opinion you have studied
too much. A man with property, like you,
has something to think of besides the
classics. Everything here might have gone
to the dogs, in the two years since you were
of age, while you where reading as if your life
depended on it. All Percival's doing : your
father would not have cared for all that.'

 But things have not gone to the dogs,
thanks to you.'

No thanks at all. I happened to be
living here ; I kept my eyes open, and saw
that people did their duty. By-the-bye,
you ought not to keep that old fellow at
the post-office. He is a lazy old scoundrel.
His wife does all the work, and she is a tremendous
gossip. I don't approve of them.'

They have been here such a long time,'
said Paul.

Colonel Ward came to a stand at his own
gate, and the dogs thronged round him ;
they were all his dogs, a family of Slumber
spaniels, except Paul's little rough terrier,
who jumped up at his master's hand, proud
of belonging to him.

A low dark arch over the gate led into
Colonel Ward's garden ; the windows of
his house peeped out with difficulty under
masses of ivy and Virginian creeper, which
hung over the porch, so that a tall man had

to stoop to go in. The smooth turf of the
garden was all bordered with brilliant
flowers ; it was a charming little place in
summer  all the year round, its master
thought.

He stood among his dogs and looked at
Paul with bright impatient eyes. He loved
Paul ; but how his friend, Sir Paul Romaine,
K.C.B., the distinguished, dashing cavalry
soldier, who, next to Mrs. Percival, had
been the enthusiasm of his life, came to have
a son like this, must always be a mystery.
He was haunted by a fear that Paul might
choose to be a clergyman, or might go in for
science of some kind, or take to composing
music, or writing books ; he believed him to
be capable of anything of this kind. Not
that he did not respect these occupations,
especially the first of them, for he was a
good and a clever man in his way ; but as

Paul could not, or would not, be a soldier,
he thought that Providence must mean him
to be a landlord and a politician. He was
terribly afraid that Paul would turn into an
oddity an old bachelor like himself ; and in
objecting to Paul's intimacy with the Percival,
he forgot that they in their commonplace
world of gossip, and fashion, and tennis,
were a strong influence the other way.

How are you going to learn to manage
your tenants, I wonder !' he said, and he
looked hard at the young Squire standing in
the middle of the road. ' We shall soon
have all the bad characters in the country
settled on Holm Common.'

There wouldn't be room for them, unless
I build more cottages,' said Paul.

The Colonel swuno- his stick and lao-hed.

There's only one hope for you, Paul,' he

said. ' You're vouno-, to be sure, to talk

about it  but you must many a sensible
woman.'

Paul made no direct answer to this. He
had turned half away, playing with Scamp,
who was impatient to be moving off again ;
and Colonel Ward did not see his smile o-;-
the light that suddenly woke in his eyes.
Perhaps he was not so young as his old
friend thought, after all.

I say, Colonel, will you come and dine
with me to-night ?'

All right. Nobody else V

 No, nobody else,' said Paul ; and then
the Colonel with his family dived into his
little dark den, and Paul and Scamp went off
at a great pace to their abode in the woods.

When the two friends met again, three
hours later, Colonel Ward looked the picture
of cheerful smartness, while Paul was flushed
and tired. He had been to church, and,

finding that the organist was away on his
hoHday, he had put on a surplice and played
the organ, as he used to do in more boyish
days. After service, he went on playing
for twenty minutes or more ; a few people
lingered in and near the church to listen,
for the errand strains of a weddings or triumphal
march  which yet could be traced to
no known composer  echoed in the high
roof and rolled out through open doors and
windows into the quiet churchyard, with its
yew-trees, down to the valley where other
people were slowly walking home.

The Vicar, a shy young man, who always
found Paul hard to get on with, came up to
him afterwards at the church-door, in the
twilight, and asked him if that music came
from the mountains ; for Paul had been in
Switzerland nearly all the summer, almost
ever since he left Oxford.

No,' said Paul ; ' it came from Wools-borough.'


Ah ! from the Cathedral !' said the
Vicar, thinking he had made a mistake ;
and Paul did not correct him further.

The establishment at Ped Towers was
small and military. Indoors, Sabin ruled.
He, in former years, had been Sir Paul's
soldier-servant. Ford, the groom, a very
solemn fellow, had belonged to the same
regiment. Mrs. Sabin was housekeeper
and cook, with two maids under her. Out
of doors there were two or three gardeners,
one of whom had been a soldier. The
house had never been let since Sir Paul's
death, seven years ago, but had been kept
in splendid order by these servants, under
Colonel Ward's vigilant eye. Mr. Bailey,
the agent, sometimes came down from
London ; and Canon and Mrs. Percival

walked about agreeably, and enjoyed the
garden and the woods when they were in
villeggiatura at their little house hard by.
The young master was there sometimes,
too. He was always a solitary boy, with
a taste for moping about at home, which
his guardian's wife struggled against as
much as she could. And she succeeded in
getting him away a great deal, for Paul,
like most other people, was very fond of
her.

The rooms at Red Towers were large
and rather gloomy, being furnished heavily
and in dark colours. The whole effect was
dark, beginning with the black oak window-frames
; and there was nothing modern in
the house at all. The Romaines had never
lived there much ; they were nearly always
soldiers ; and their wives generally did not
like it. The present house had been built

by one of them about the time of James II.
It was a sort of place that wanted large
families, dogs, games, cheerfulness. The
rustling of the woods and their weird cries
and noises had always been rather terrible
to anxious women waiting for news from
battle-fields.

The rooms at Red Towers opened chiefly
into each other, and Mrs. Sabin very often
kept the shutters shut for weeks together ;
she thought light was not good for the fine
old pictures and the beautiful china. Now
and then she condescended to show these
treasures to some intelligent and fascinating
tourist ; but very seldom. Colonel Ward
never failed to hear of these exhibitions, and
they made him angry.

When the Squire was at home, all the
rooms were open, and carefully arranged.
He could spend as much time as he liked

VOL. T. 2

among his forefathers and their possessions,
and sometimes, in fact, he would stroll
through the room with his hands in his
pockets, looking up at the pictures as if he
wished they could talk to him.

But he lived chiefly in a small room near
the entrance, close to the square tower which
held the hall and staircase. This room had
two windows, one in the angle by the tower',
looking out on a corner of red wall, and
woods beyond it, the other on a wide
sheltered lawn with rose-beds and cedar-trees.
The Windows were near the ground,
and Paul, with his long legs, could jump out
easily. The walls of his room were covered
with heavy bookcases, now full of modern
books, which had arrived that summer inlarge
cases from Oxford. Colonel Ward
had unpacked and settled them with his
own hands while Paul was abroad, sending

away the old ones into the much less literary
room which was called the library. There
was a piano in a corner, and over the
chimney piece were two small portraits of
Paul's father and mother when they were
young. In a velvet frame underneath hung
a few miniatures, and Sir Paul's medals ;
Mrs. Percival had arranged that frame for
the young man at Oxford. Above the
portraits hung Sir Paul's sword ; and on
the black carved mantelpiece were his
travelling-clock and a few things that belonged
to him. Paul's peaceful propensities
did not mean any want of pride in
his father.

Sabin would have thought it much more
correct that his master and Colonel Ward
should dine in the large dining-room. But
Paul said, ' No, in the study ;' so into the
study Sabin brought his fine old plate, his

Worcester china, his best wine, and waited
on the two friends with a beaming benevolence
which made the nervous Colonel glance
at him severely.

After dinner, when Sabin was gone, Paul
became very silent and dreamy ; even Scamp
could hardly catch his attention. At last
the Colonel, who was smoking and talking
serenely, noticed his host's absence of mind,
and fixed his eyes upon him in a momentary
anxiety. Paul always looked young, for he
wore no hair on his face ; but that evening
he looked like a boy of eighteen. He looked
very handsome, too ; eyelids drooping a little
over dark eyes like his mother's, and faintly
smiling, some new life lighting ujd the
dreams that had taken hold of him. Suddenly,
as the Colonel stared at him curiously
but quite unaware of that  he looked up
and said :

Colonel, you were saying something this
afternoon about marrying -

Colonel Ward stared still more, in consternation
now.

What ! My dear chap, take care what
you are doing. Don't be in a hurry, whatever
you do !'

Xo,' said Paul, ' I have not been in a
hurry. Do you mind our going outside, and
talking about it ? This room is so fearfully
hot.'

OWLS.

Outside in the garden all was coolness and
stillness. The woods hardly rustled, that
quiet evening, and all their living creatures
seemed to be asleep. The old red brick
house lay dark in the moonlight ; its rather
fantastic towers and chimney-tops standing
out clear ; its long rows of windows shining ;
its ivy and Virginian creeper hanging in
silvered masses. On the lawn there were
spaces of clear light and deep shadow, and
the great dark cedars stretched their arms
motionless.

Even outside here, in the free air, with
his old friend, Paul seemed o*find it difficult
to go on with his subject. Colonel Ward
smoked his pipe, as they walked up and
down, and waited for him as long as he
could. At last he said, with real anxiety
in his voice :

Talk away, ni} boy ; what is all this
about ? Hang it, Paul, you are not in
earnest, are you V

Yes, I'm in earnest.'

But nothing positive  nothing settled,
of course ?'

Well, yes, it is settled ; at least, I hope
so. Yes, Colonel, it was settled just before I
went abroad ; but we agreed to say nothing
about it. I suppose everybody will know
soon now. I don't see why they shouldn't.'

Why didn't you tell me before ?' said
Colonel Ward rather sharply.

You must not mind about that, you
know,' the young man answered quickly.
Mrs. Percival wouldn't let me say anything,
and of course I had to do as they
wished. She wanted me to wait till they
came here ; it would make such a lot of
talk at Woolsborough. I am going to
Woolsborough now, though  but I came
here first  partly on purpose to tell you.'

From Paul's manner, and rather hurried
way of talking, it was plain that he did not
expect his old friend to be much pleased
with the news he had to tell him. Colonel
Ward listened to him gravely, and did not
speak quite at once.

Ah ! Then I may be supposed to know
who it is,' he said presently. ' Mrs. Percival
 well, there may be some excuse for her.
Women don't always know at once what
view to take, and, no doubt, she found she

had to do with an obstinate ytmng fool. But
Percival was very wrong. He ought to
have interfered. He ought to have put a
stop to the thing at once. That is what an
honourable man would have done.'
I don't see why,' said Paul.

You would see plainly enough in another
man's case. Percival was your guardian.
A year ago his wife's niece came to live
with him  a girl whose parents were good-for-nothing,
and who had been badly trained
in every way.'

Look here. Colonel, you always say what
you like '

Yes, and I mean to do so still.'

You must remember that you don't

know Miss Darrell. You have only seen

her once.'

I know all about her,' said the Colonel.

I grant you she is a very pretty girl.

Clever, too ; I haven't a doubt of that.
But she has nothing, and for that and
twenty other reasons she is not the right
match for you. And the Percivalss ought
not to have listened to such a thing for a
moment. They were bound in honour to
resist the very notion. A vouno- fellow
with a good property Hke you, with your
talents, and a grand future before you !
Why, hang it, Paul, you might marry
anybody ! What the deuce was old Percival
thinking about ? I ahvavs knew he was
a fool, but hang me if I knew he was a
knave.'

He couldn't have prevented it. He had
nothing to do with it,' said Paul.

My dear fellow, that's nonsense. I
wonder at Mrs. Percival. But I suppose
she took the sentimental view ; she always
was soft-hearted. And this is not the

first mistake she has made, I am sorry to
say. How long has this affair been going
on V

For a year, with me. Ever since I
first saw her. But I said nothing till I
went down from Oxford the other day.
And you are awfully unfair to the Percival,
you know, Colonel. Mrs. Percival
thought at first I was too young ; and then
she wouldn't have anything said about it all
the summer.'

I see nothing in that, if she allowed the
thing to go on at all,' said Colonel Ward
dismally ; he was torn between loyalty to
his old love and faithfulness to the interests
of Paul Romaine. ' Do you write to the
young lady V

Of course ; we are engaged,' said Paul.

And do you mean to tell me that nobody
knows anything about it V

Canon and Mrs. Percival ; nobody else.
They have not even told Vincent.'

Why not V

I don't know. The fewer people the
better, she thought. And I think Vincent
isn't always the pleasantness fellow in the
world ; and as he was to be there all the
summer, perhaps it was better for her that
he shouldn't know  because he and I don't
get on particularly well. He might have
made himself disagreeable. But of course
Mrs. Percival did not tell me any reasons
like those ; I have only guessed them. She
said it was best that only she and the Canon
should know. And it was easy, as I was
going abroad.'

If the things was allowed at all, I see
no reason for keeping it secret,' said Colonel
Ward. ' I shall ask her to explain that tome
one of these days.'

Then he and Paul walked the whole
length of the lawn, past the cedars, from
liofht to shadow, and back to lio-ht aoain,
without saying anything more. The Colonel
in his honest old heart was very unhappy.
Though he would not exactly say so, he
thought Mrs. Percival had done very wrong.
There could be no doubt, really, that the
whole thing was her doing. With a penniless
niece on her hands, of course she had
encouraged Paul. A young fellow at college,
open, enthusiastic, simple-hearted, he was
ready to fall in love with anybody ; and
Miss Darrell was a very attractive girl.
All the unhappy history of her father and
mother had been told to the Colonel by
Mrs. Percival herself; the girl was friendless,
homeless, penniless. The chance of
such a marriage as this for her was, no
doubt, a great temptation to her aunt ;

but, to Colonel Ward's mind, a temptation
which ouoiit at all costs to have been
resisted. He was a man of strict notions
and high old-fashioned ideas ; his prejudices,
therefore, were strong ; and Mrs. Percival's
niece was just the kind of girl who always
made him reflect on the degeneracy of the
age. He did not like her ; and the news
of her enofaofement to Paul seemed to him
worse than any news he had heard since Sir
Paul Romaine died.

The Colonel was hurt, too, though he did
not wish to show it. Under his stiff grey
outside there was a great deal of warm affection,
with the sensitiveness which is its
wrong side. He had thought that there
was always a perfect confidence between
himself and Paul, whom he loved as if he
were his son. He had flattered himself that
all Paul's tastes, and ways, and weaknesses

were known to him, as they would have
been known to Paul's father ; and he had
never really much dreaded the influence of
the Percivalss, though he talked about it,
feeling sure that Paul was his own boy in
spite of them. It was something of a shock
to him to find how far that influence had
now extended itself; that Paul, body and
soul, was to belong all his life to the Percival
; and that this thing had been going
on for a whole year past, while he, the
blind old friend, had thought that Paul
was only too much wrapped up in reading
for honours.

And this is a settled thing !' said the
Colonel at last. He spoke sadly, but not
angrily ; after all, young people must be
young, and it was not Paul he was angry
with. He himself had remained unmarried
always for the sake of a foolish woman. ' Xo

RED TOWERS

hope of any change !' he went on, perhaps
hardly speaking to Paul.

No fear of any,' said the young man,
smiling.  Look here, Colonel, it makes me
awfully happy, you know, and you must congratulate
me.'

 No  can't do that,' said the Colonel.

You will when you know Celia a little
better.'

The Colonel shook his head.

 I won't deny, my friend,' he said, ' that
this news of yours has startled me considerably.
I can't talk to you about it now. I
must go home and think it over. Goodnight.'


No, Colonel, I won't let you,' said Paul,
taking hold of his arm. ' You must be convinced
; I'm going to argue with you.'

You may as well argue with the owls,
my boy. I'm a kill-joy, I know. I'm a

prophet of evil ; but I don't like this engagement
of yours. Miss Darrell is pretty ;
in fact, she comes as near being beautiful as
any woman I ever saw ; and no doubt she
has taking manners. But if she had money
as well, she is not the wife I should choose
for you. I believe in heredity, and she
comes of a bad stock. Her tendencies are
horsey, and I hate horsey women. Her
father was an idle, dissipated chap, never
to be seen off a racecourse ; and her mother,
jjoor thing, was as weak as water.'

At that moment the silence of the night
was broken by a wild ' Tu whit, tu who !'
and an owl flew slowly across, in the moonshine,
from one great tree to another. Paul
was, in fact, arguing with the owls, it
seemed.

I know all that,' he said, in answer to
the Colonel. ' But I don't know why she

VOL. I. 3

should be made responsible for their
sins.'

He might very well have been angry ;
but he had a philosophy of his own, which
at this time took the form of perfect trust.
In his mind he knew and trusted Celia so
entirely, that his old friend's fears and prejudices
were only worth a smile. He could
not quarrel with him about anything so
childish, knowing how easily Celia would
captivate the Colonel, when she saw him
again.

Don't you think it will be a very good
thing, Colonel,' he went on, ' if she knows
more about horses than I do ?'

Well, yes ; you are a muff about horses,
certainly, Paul,' Colonel Ward was obliged
to confess. ' You would get into endless
scrapes in that line, and be cheated right
and left, if you hadn't Ford and me to look



after you. It is a miracle that your father's
son should be so ignorant.'

She will manage all that,' said Paul in
his low pleasant voice. ' She is very
clever ; she will look after everything.
And she is tremendously kind and charitable,
you know  and good  a thousand
times too good for me. Why should I be
obliged to marry a woman with money ?
This other arrangement seems quite right
to me.'

To you  but to nobody else, my boy,'
said Colonel Ward.

Slowly, under Paul's influence, his indignation
was melting away. It was plain that
the lad was very happy, very much in love ;
and he was engaged ; and of course there
was not the smallest chance of his breaking
oft' his engagement now ; the Colonel could
not expect or wish him to do that. The

32

only feeling must be regret and deep vexation
; but still, if Paul really knew anything
about Miss Celia Darrell, a little hope might
creep in. She might make him a tolerably
good wife after all.

 Why, Paul,' he said, ' you talk as if
you were a millionnaire. You're not, you
know.'

We shall do very well,' said Paul quietly.
We shall live here ; and by-and-by, if you
push me on, I may try for Parliament. That
is Mrs. Percival's idea.'

She is quite right, perfectly right,' said
the Colonel, highly pleased ; and with this
prospect he forgot all about Paul's bad news,
and began building all sorts of castles in the
air.

This was the future he had always fancied
for Paul ; fearing all the time that he was
too lazy, too refined, too studious, too artistic.

ever to put himself in the way of it. It
even occurred once to the Colonel's mind
that a spirited woman, if she was really
worthy of Paul, might be his greatest help
in a political career. Possibly, in Celia
Darrell, her father's recklessness might take
the form of a courage worth something. The
Colonel was afraid not ; for when he had
seen her, and heard her talk, dislike had been
mixed strongly with his admiration ; but he
beofan to think that he miofht have done the
girl injustice.

So, instead of saying ' good-night ' early,
and going home sulky to his cottage, Colonel
Ward talked politics with Paul for another
hour. Paul, to tell the truth, was tired
and bored, and wished that he had said
nothing about Parliament. At last he took
advantage of a pause to change the subject
suddenly.

I suppose the place will want thoroughly
doing up all round,' he said, looking up at his
old towers.

Nonsense ! It is in perfectly good
order.'

I know it isn't tumbling down ; but it
is not half smart enough. People make
houses beautiful in these days, don't they ?
Mrs. Percival's house is awfully pretty. Of
course this has a character of its own ; but
it is very old-fashioned ; all the things in it
are old-fashioned.'

Nonsense, Paul ! They were good
enough for your mother.'

Ah ! but that was honos ao*o. Well, she
must look at it all when she comes here.
There will be the servants to settle, too 
but Mrs. Percival will tell me all about
that.'

' It is not to be a long' engagement, then V

said Colonel Ward, with something like a
sigh.

Why should it be V

Why ? Because you are very young ;
too young to know your own mind.'

I have known it for a long time.'

Well, about the servants. Of course you
must have things correct. I know nothing.
I have been out of the world too long. Mrs.
Percival will tell you, as you say. One
thing I feel pretty sure of  you will have
to part with the Sabins.'

No ; why should I do that ?' exclaimed
Paul almost angrily.

Mrs. Sabin has been used to having her
own way far too long ; she won't knock
under. And Sabin  to tell you the truth,
I have not been satisfied with Sabin for
some time past. He is too familiar ; his
manners are shocking. To-night, at dinner,

I thought he was vulgar ; broad grins the
whole time. He has been a faithful servant,
no doubt ; but you will have to part with
him ; your wife will never endure him. She
will like to have her own way in the house.'

Poor old Sabin ! I never noticed anything
wrong. He always does what I tell
him. Of course, if Celia doesn't like him
and his wife, that will be another affair ;
but I think she will. They are sure to be
awfully nice to her. It would be a horrid
bother to part with them.'

You will find a good many horrid bothers
in store for you, my boy. You had better
have been contented as you are.'

Why, Colonel, it was only this afternoon
that you told me I ought to marry a sensible
woman.'

I didn't mean what I said,' answered the
Colonel boldly.

It was near midnight when Paul walked
with him up the dark avenue, and across the
road to his own house. Under the arch at
the door, Colonel Ward shook hands with
him and muttered a few words.

My best wishes, my boy. God bless
you r

Paul went back to Red Towers, and walked
restlessly about for another hour in the moonlight.
He felt as if he must go to Wools-borough
tomorrow ; it seemed very hard of
Mrs. Percival to put him off for a week. It
was easier to live without Celia in Switzerland
than here, with only a few hours' railway
between them.

The owls in the wood seemed very restless,
too ; they hooted dismally now and then, as
if to condole with their young Squire on the
cruelty of circumstances.

RIVER GATE.

Canon Percival, in his own line, was a much
cleverer and wiser man than Colonel Ward
pretended to think him.

He was by no means a fool : he had a
remarkable faculty for sticking to his point
and having his own way. He had done
everything he wanted to do in life, so far.
His college was reasonably proud of him,
and had given him one of its best livings,
St. Martha's, in the city of Woolsborouo-h :
a canonry in the Cathedral had followed.
He had married early in life, carrying off a

prize whom two at least of his friends envied
him. He had pleasant manners, and managed
his cm-ages and his parish very well ; he was
also very friendly with his brethren of the
Chapter. Some evil-disposed people laughed
at him, though he was a good-looking, dignified
man ; perhaps because he was a little
too dignified sometimes, and they said he
was ambitious, and wanted to be a bishop.
There were also people who disliked and distrusted
him ; no one, perhaps, liked him
heartily ; and yet no one had anything
really to say against him.

He was not a rich man ; but he was careful
and prudent, and managed to live very
comfortably in his beautiful old house close
to the Cathedral. Everyone liked Mrs.
Percival, and was charmed to go to her
parties, which had been made more attractive
than usual this summer by the presence

of her soldier son from India, and her pretty
niece, Miss Darrell.

River Gate was a large square red house
at the south-Yest corner of the Close. Its
tall stately door and rows of windows looked
north, fronting rows of elms and the Chapterhouse,
and then the Cathedral. To the
west and south of the house, a fine old
garden in terraces sloped down to the
broad river, which was the charm and
life of Woolsborough. Under the lowest
terrace of the garden was an ancient archway,
crumbled by time and overgrown with
ivv, where one could turn in from the 
and mount up by steps into the
Close, and so on, by narrow walled ways,
past fragments of old towers and defences,
to the west front of the Cathedral. This
river gate, which gave its name to Canon
Percival's house, was also a private way, by



a flight of steps with a locked gate, from his
garden to the river.

Mrs. Percival was alone in her drawing-room
on Saturday afternoon. Outside, on
the high gravel terrace with its red flowerpots,
the sun was shining with a soft September
brilliancy ; but the three tall west
windows were darkened, so that there was a
deep restful shade in the room. There was
also a delightful scent of flowers, and a great
deal of varied colour, for which Mrs. Percival
had such a fancy that the Canon had
been heard to remark, ' This room is scarcely
ecclesiastical.' There were several little
dogs, and a tea-table, and a slight general
confusion, as if people had been there not
long ago. And this was the case, for some
visitors had just gone away with Canon Percival
into the Cathedral ; their large carriage
was still driving round and round the Close.

Mrs. Percival appeared to be a little uneasy
in her mind, and disturbed from her
usual amiability. She snubbed the little
dogs when they begged of her, and told them
they were greedy. She walked round the
room, pushed the chairs about, went out on
the terrace, listened, and tried to look up
the river ; but trees and walls and houses
prevented her seeing much.

 I wonder if I have done right,' she muttered
to herself, taking a quick turn along
the terrace ; ' but knowing Vincent so well,
poor dear  I wonder if I ought to have put
him off till Monday. He is sure to come
now  still, the train must be late. Good
gracious, here he is !'

With both hands stretched out, and the
sweetest smile, and all the pretty grace that
belonged to her, she hurried back into the
drawing-room to receive Paul Romaine.

Here you are, my dear ! I had almost
given you up. So glad to see you ! How
well you are looking !'

Paul was glancing quickly round the
room, the dear old room, bright and sweet
as ever. Red Towers was certainly dismal
by contrast. But where was his own particular
possession, who was going to make
Red Towers the most brilliant place in the
world ?

Thanks so much ! Where's Celia ?' he
said, smiling and half shy.

Yes, of course she ought to have been
here to meet you. Try not to be impatient ;
she will be in very soon. Sit down and
have some tea.'

Could I find her ?' said Paul.

He had been unreasonable, no doubt ; but
somehow he had expected to see Celia on
the platform at the railway-station ; and

Ashen she was not there, he made sure that
she would be under the archway at the
entrance of the Close ; and then he had
told himself, ' Xo, she wouldn't like that ;
she will be here in the hall ;' but no one
received him in the hall. Even the drawing-room
was empty, till, after the first instant,
Mrs. Percival came in. And he had not seen
Celia since the end of June, when he went
abroad, immediately after his engagement.

Paul had been patient enough : he had
allowed Mrs. Percival to put him off on one
excuse or another, untroubled by doubts.
The time was to come which would make
amends for everything and now it was
come, and had brought nothing but disappointment.
Paul took no notice of the little
dogs who were jumping upon him, or of Mrs.
Percival's kind advice and offer of tea. He
walked across to the window.

Is she anywhere in the garden ?' he
said.

There was a certain sacred spot in the
garden, where one evening, more than two
months ago, Celia had let him worship her.
Everyone else was very proud of his University
honours ; but she only smiled, and '
looked at him with a shade more interest
than before. He had known well enough
that these things made no difference to her ;
but still he had worked with all his strength,
partly from natural love of the work, partly
to make himself in his own eyes more worthy
of her. Some people said that Celia flirted ;
but she had never flirted with him. Her
manner was even cold. Whatever Colonel
Ward may have thought, Paul had not had
much of what is commonly called encouragement.
Perhaps she knew that a look, a
smile, a word now and then, were enough to

VOL. I. 4

RED TOWERS

keep Paul where she chose him to be ; and,
if so, she was a wise girl not to give him
any more. Anyhow, when he could be kept
within due bounds no longer, she let him
speak, and smiled in earnest, and very sweetly
accepted him, and Red Towers, and all the
rest of it.

Mrs. Percival was of course immensely
pleased. She had a great respect for Celia's
talents, and thought she would make a very
good wife for Paul. For Celia herself, what
could be more desirable ? One may fear
that Colonel Ward's notion of anything dishonourable
in the arrangement never even
occurred to Mrs. Percival's mind ; and yet
she was not quite at ease. She was troubled,
at first, by three anxieties : that their summer
at Woolsborough would be quite spoilt
bv tiresome gossip, curiosity, and congratulations
(Celia disliked this prospect as much



as she did) ; that her son Vincent, who did
not like Paul, and scoffed at him, and was
very meddlesome, would in some way spoil the
whole thing if he knew it ; that Celia had
engaged herself to Paul without earing for
him in the least. For Mrs. Percival, though
she might be worldly and calculating, was
soft-hearted too, and sincerely fond of Paul.

The two first anxieties were disposed of
by Celia's wise resolution that no one but
her uncle and aunt should know of her engagement
till they left Woolsborough in the
autumn. As to the third  when her aunt
murmured a few caressing words on the
subject, she answered calmly :

 Oh, Paul is a dear boy. I always love
boys.'

Will he find that satisfying ?' suggested
Mrs. Percival, lifting her eyebrows with a
faint, dismayed smile.

4 9

 Don't be anxious about him ; he is
quite happy,' said Celia ; and she added
after a moment,  If I wait to marry till I
am in love, dear, I shall never marry at all.
I don't know what it is. I haven't got it
in me.'

Oh, Celia !'

Mrs. Percival smiled a little more, and
ceased her remonstrances.

But since then, throughout the summer
months, she had often been visited by
troublesome thoughts, doubting whether it
would not have been the best policy, after
all, to tell the whole truth at once  to the
Bishop, the Chapter, the county, the city,
the household  and more especially to
Captain Percival, her son. He  his long
idle hours passed perpetually with Celia,
intimate, friendly, admiring  was, in fact,
his mother's one great towering anxiety.

Words of warning had been on her Hps
several times, and then the truth would
certainly have slipped out ; but then she
remembered Celia's cool worldly wisdom,
and Vincent's expressed conviction that in
these days a man must marry money, or
not at all ; and the Canon, when she hinted
something to him, asked her, smiling, whether
either of these young people was a fool ; and
so she kept to her intention, and now, in September,
Celia's engagement to Paul Romaine
was still a secret. Only Mrs. Percival
wished in her heart that she could have
kept Paul, for his own sake, away from
Woolsborough a few days longer.

She looked at him anxiously as he moved
restlessly to the window. In old days she
had always been able to manage Paul : his
affectionate, unsuspicious nature had given
her no trouble : but this sudden chill of disappointment,

this eager pain, which made
him turn away suddenly from her now,
seemed for a moment almost beyond her
diplomatic powers. She felt angry with
Celia, who had known quite well what time
Paul was coming. But perhaps it was
Vincent's fault. She wished that they had
not gone out together on this particular afternoon.
But Vincent was going away on
Monday, and would have been dreadfully
injured if his cousin had thought it necessary
to stay at home to-day.

I am very sorry Celia is not in, Paul,'
said Mrs. Percival in her sweetest tones. * I
know she meant to be here. But Vincent
wanted her to go out in the boat vdth. him
he leaves us on Monday  and as he
knows nothing, you see, it may have been
a little difficult to brings him back in time.
You mustn't be anoTv with Celia.'

Angry ! Nothing of the sort,' said Paul.
He laughed, and came back to the table, and
quietly took his cup of tea from Mrs. Percival,
who looked up smiling into his eyes.
I rather wish everybody had known about
it from the first,' he said.

Do you ?' she answered. ' But it would
not have made much difference to you, dear
boy, as you were away all the time. And
we had our little reasons, you know. But
now, after next week, of course everybody
may be told. We think of moving to Holm
in about a week's time.'

May I stay here till then ?' asked Paul.

Of course. I thought you would. And
now tell me about Switzerland.'

There's nothing to tell you, except that
it was very jolly.'

And what have you been doing since
you came home ?'

Shooting. There are really a great lot
of birds this year. The Colonel and I have
had some capital sport.'

The Canon will be glad to hear that
said Mrs. Percival. ' And how is the dear
old Colonel ? So you told him our news 
and how did he take it ? Was he the least
bit hurt that you had not told him before V

Well, perhaps he was Paul confessed.

He looked on the floor, slightly confused,
for certainly he could not tell Mrs. Percival
how Colonel Ward took the news.

I was afraid of that,' said she. ' He is
a little touchy, poor dear !'

He soon got over it said Paul. ' He
thinks it's a good thing that Celia knows
more about horses than I do. And I was
talking over servants and things with him,
you know  and he thinks it won't do to
keep the Sabins.'

 Why V said Mrs. Percival with her
pretty' laugh. ' Does he think Celia will
want a dozen powdered footmen ? Old
bachelors are not the best judges, are
they ? But there will be plenty of time
to settle all that ; you need not bother
yourself about changes just yet. In fact,
if I were you, I would begin quietly 
because you are not making a great match,
you know, Paul.'

I think I am,' he said in a low voice.

He always felt very stupid when a pretty
speech seemed to be demanded of him, and
generally rushed on to something else as fast
as possible.

When do you think she will let it be,
Mrs. Percival ?' he asked.

You must ask her. But you are both
so young that there need be no hurry.'

I hate waiting,' said Paul. ' What is

the use of dragging through miserable days
without any reason ? It's a waste out of
one's life  don't you know it is V

Well, no. I must say I was very happy
and comfortable when I was engaged.
Arthur, to be sure, was just as ridiculous
as you are now. But then he had some
reason for it, because I was not such a good
steady girl as your Celia.'

Ah, I know,' said Paul, smiling as he
looked at her. ' The Colonel has never got
over it.'

Mrs. Percival smiled too, looking quite
conscious and ]Pretty and young, though she
was past fifty. Her hair was brown still,
frizzed and curled under a most becoming
cap ; her complexion was soft and white ;
she had lovely hands ; and her brown eyes
had a way of smiling and shining which to
this day was irresistible.



Poor dear ! I do wish he had married
somebody,' she said. ' And yet I don't
know ; he is very happy in that nice little
house of yours. By-the-bye, you must
always go on asking his advice, Paul, or he
will be injured.'

Trust me for that. Besides, I should
be a fool if I didn't ; he knows such a lot
of things.'

Yes, so he does. And he is as good as
gold, dear old fellow ! I wonder now, Paul,
whether he means to leave you his money.'

His money ? Colonel Ward ? I never
thought about it,' said Paul vaguely. * Has
he got any ? Not much, I should think.'

His uncle left him at least three or four
thousand a year,' said Mrs. Percival. ' Do
you mean to say you didn't know that ? Of
course he has lived all these years on three
or four hundred.'

Really ! Well, I never thought about
it,' repeated Paul. ' Leave it to me ? Of
course not. Why should he V

He has no relations ; and I believe he
likes you better than anybody else.'

Except you. You are his favourite
person in the world. I don't believe you
could do anything the Colonel would think
wrong, strict as he is. It's beautiful, you
know, the way he talks about you, and the
way he looks when one mentions your
name.'

They went on talking about Colonel Ward
for some minutes, till the Canon came in
K with his rather strand air of welcome. After
a few speeches to Paul, he began talking to
his wife about the visitors who had just
driven away ; and then Paul, leaving them
together, went out into the garden, and ran
down to the lower terrace, and out under

the old gateway to the towing-path, to
watch for Celia.

It was a still, oppressive evening. Away
across the deep green meadows, beyond the
river, the sun was going down into a bank
of cloud and fog, all suffused with a red light,
which made the slow broad current glow
with a sort of burnished splendour. Blue
evening mists were beginning to hover about
the river, and to creep up the steep old
irregular streets that wound down to the
quay, between the Cathedral and all its
buildings, and the bridge a few hundred
yards above. There were boats about the
bridge, and children playing and screaming,
and the river came sweeping down under the
three wide arches, but Paul did not see the
boat he was looking for. After all, he did
not know whether Vincent Percival had
taken his cousin up or down the river ;

Mrs. Percival could not tell him. So he
looked up towards the bridge, and saw
nothing ; and turned round, and walked a
little way in the other direction, towards a
distance of willow-trees and far-stretching
meadows, with houses and gardens here and
there, the southern outskirts of the town.
No boat, no Celia : the sun was almost obscured
now, glimmering, a dim red ball, in
the midst of the clouds, and the mists were
gathering over the water. It was almost
twilight ; and still Paul paced up and down
the towing-path, under the old river gate
and the dark half-ruined walls with their
heavy tresses of ivy. It struck him that
he might go up to the bridge, to the man
who had charge of the boats there ; he
would know if they had passed ; and then
it would be very possible to take a canoe,
and go to meet them. But some mysterious

instinct said :  Celia would not like that ;'
and so he stayed where he was, loitering
about the archway, straining his eyes one
way or the other, as the minutes dragged
on and the twilight deepened.

CELIA.

Celia Darrell was a woman of a happy
disposition. She was always amused ; as
they say, all was fish that came to her net.
She was, indeed, a delightful girl with excellent
health, high animal spirits, and a
ofreat love of admiration, or rather of beings
liked ; for, with all her beauty, she was not
vain. And everybody did like her, women
as much as men, except a few prejudiced,
old-fashioned souls like Colonel Ward.

How could the world help liking anyone
with such pretty manners, always ready to

join in any fun, enjoying the dullest party,
and being kind to the stupidest people ! A
woman like Celia need never fear that she
will not be liked. The only danger is  but
that will not matter to her  that some rash
creatures may allow themselves to like her
too much, to trust her too far, and then find
out, with more or less pain, how very little
worth is love or friendship from a character
like hers.

But it was most natural that jDCople who
loved Celia should idealize her, for her sweetness
and charm were very real. If they
sometimes bestowed themselves in the wrong
place, who can be perfect I If, when the
man to whom she was engaged arrived hot
and tired from his journey, with no thought
in his mind but that of seeing' her aoain, of
finding her waiting for him, she vas lingering
over her tea in perfect peace in the

VOL. I. 5

garden of an old inn, three or four miles up
the river, lauoiiino- with her cousin Vincent
as if she had no interest in the world but
him  well, perhaps, this only showed her
perfect confidence in herself and Paul, and
her splendid power of keeping a secret.

The old Queen's Head was a long white
building, with a brown porch all overgrown
with purple clematis, standing high on the
river's bank. Boating people often stopped
there ; one mounted uj:) to it by flights of
red brick steps in the garden, which was all
brilliant on this autumn dav with dahlias
and nasturtiums and clove pinks  a varied
mass of deep-coloured flowers. Half-away
up, off" the steps, there was a little quaint
wooden summer - house, very clean and
shady, with a peaked top and a weathercock.


The smiling' girl of the inn had brought

down tea there for Vincent and his cousin,
by no means for the first time that summer.
Their boat was lying at the foot of the
green steeps slope below the steps ; swallows
Mere twittering and oatherino in rows on

k:> c> (D

the roof of the old inn ; the shadows grew
long very early now, and the dewy nights
were cold ; they were no doubt talking of
their near departure, which seemed to
trouble them much more than Vincent's
troubled him.

There was something by no means pleasant
or contented, however, in Captain Perch -
val's face, as he sat there and looked at his
smiling cousin. He was what people call a
handsome man ; from his looks he misbehave
been a hero, but he was not a hero.
He was a very ji'ctical man ; he knew
excellently well how to enjoy himself, and
how to make himself agreeable to other

52

people, if he wished it ; but he did not
know how to smile, and had never yet
been known to deny himself anything for
anybody. After all this, one is inclined to
say that he and his cousin Celia were not
badly matched. Perhaps he might have
thought so himself, for different reasons, if
the course of the world had been different.
Celia had been a delightful companion all
through these summer weeks ; she had made
River Gate and the dull old society of Close
and neighbourhood quite endurable. They
had chaffed each other from morning till
night, and he had let her drag him about
where she pleased, pretending to be very
lazy and unwilling to move.

Mrs. Percival had been grateful to Celia,
till she began to be anxious, for Vincent was
a diiBcult person at home, very hard to
please, and giving himself the tremendous

airs that Colonel Ward complained of. He
was only in England for six months at this
time, and Paul had seen him at Easter,
when they naturally found nothing at all to
say to each other. When Paul came down
from Oxford after taking his degree, Vincent
happened to be away, so that Paul had
those few glorious days, which ended with
his engagement to Celia. And Paul believed
that Celia loved him : and he went abroad,
because they all told him he had better,
and lived on her not very satisfying letters
all the summer, and believed, and trusted.
Well, after all, Celia had no idea of deceiving
him.

She quite meant to marry him by-and-by,
and to enjoy life with plenty of money ; at
present she was enjoying her tea, and the
warm sweet air of the old garden, and the
lovely lights on the water, and her jokes

with Vincent, though he was hardly so agreeable
as usual that afternoon. Her clear pale
skin was burnt a little by the sun, but the
colour was becoming ; it suited the fair hair,
with a tinge of reddish gold, that curled
under the brim of her sailor hat. Her eyes
were very pretty, cloudy blue grey, with
dark lashes ; they could be very cold and
indifferent, and then they were only grey ;
but with any excitement they became blue,
and wonderfully expressive. They could smile
quite distractingly, while the rest of her face
was still ; they were smiling now, as she
looked at Vincent, and she had altogether
what he amused himself by calling her
electric look.'

Vincent had all along said anything in the
world he pleased to this pretty plaything of
a cousin : lately he had been a little angry
at finding out how much he really admired

her ; but this was such hopeless nonsense
that he kept it quite to himself, and meant
to go on with their easy chaffing intimacy to
the end.

Don't look so cross,' said Celia in her soft
voice. * Is the tea too bad ? or are the
midges beginning to bite you  or is there
anything dreadfully wrong with my hat V

One of Celia's advantages over other people
was her way of speaking, clear, deliberate,
and slow. It was impossible to ignore what
she said. Her voice was musical, though
she knew nothing of music ; a little high-pitched,
and plaintive ; her enemies said it
was an affected voice.

Nothing wrong with your hat ; it's a
very pretty hat,' said Captain Percival.  Of
course the tea is beastly, and so are the
midges. They will be worse on the water ;
but you can pull, and I can smoke.'

They never bite me,' said Celia, looking
at her hands.

Nothing ever bites you, I should think,'
said her cousin. ' And you are never ill, are
you ? never even a finger-ache. I suspect
you don't know what pain means.'

That would be saying a little too much,
perhaps. I used to tumble down and hurt
myself, when I was a small child. But
I have never been ill. I suppose I
don't really know what pain means. Do
you mind ? Very sorry, but it's not my
fault.'

The worst of people like you is,' said
Vincent rather viciously, ' that they can't
feel for anybody else. Nothing makes any
impression upon them.'

You are quite mistaken. I'm not so
heartless. I think it is very horrid of the
midges to bite you.'

Vincent twisted his moustache, looking
rather crosser than before.

I'm not chaffing he said, ' I'm serious,
do you know. I believe you have no more
feeling than a stone. Did anything ever
happen in your life to make you unhappy ?
Did you ever stay awake at night, or not eat
your dinner, because you were unhappy ?'

Celia gazed at him, her eyes growing
more and more blue, and smiling more than
ever. There was wonder in the smile, for
she perceived that he was in earnest. For
the first time in that long summer flirtation,
their talk was going a little below the surface.
It was not her doings.

Why do you ask me such absurd questions
?' she said. ' And why do you think
I have no more feeling than a stone ? Do
you know, I am very glad you are not generally
serious.'

Vincent made no reply at once. He was
not looking at her now, but away towards
the river.

 Now do something to please me she
said, after a moment of really uncomfortable
silence.  Wait till we get home, and then
be serious with Uncle Tom in the study. Or
wait till tomorrow ; that will be better still ;
tomorrow is Sunday. Will you, Vincent V

After a minute he answered, rather roughly
and suddenly, ' I don't know whether you area
witch, or a baby.'

Give me the benefit of the doubt,' said
Celia, half under her breath.

Vincent's manner was really puzzling.
She had very often seen him out of temper ;
the usual calm of River Gate was seriously
disturbed now and then by his unreasonableness
; but these bursts of rage were generally
concerned with his dinner, or his clothes,

or mistakes of servants, or fancied insults and
neglects from his devoted fattier and mother.
Celia had never been the object of them herself,
and had always succeeded ia bringing
peace back directly. She could not imagine
why he should be cross now, or what she had
done to injure his feelings. Perhaps she had
a right to be injured at his asking her whether
she had ever been unhappy : the touches of
black on her white dress might have kept
him from forgetting that a year had not long
passed since her father died ; and if she had
never loved any one else, she had loved her
father.

There were few enough moments in Celia's
life when she had any deep feeling, either
of joy or sorrow ; and still fewer were the
moments when such a feelings found its waving
words. In fact, she was harder and
cooler than most young women of her age

and kind ; and yet she did not like Vincent
to call her a stone. But she did not contradict
him any further at that time, and
seemed to deserve the character he gave her.
To her quick instincts, after the first surprise,
his unusual earnestness was a danger
signal, and she had no wish to find herself
among any troublesome rocks. So far, she
had sailed with him over a smooth sea ; for
every reason, she wished their present terms
of easy cousinship to continue to the end ;
and indeed, so did he ; but he was a little
ofi* his guard that afternoon, and man is not
always master of his fate.

For a few minutes they sat in silence : a
most extraordinary thing for them. Vincent
was still staring away up the river, frowning
fiercely. Celia, having slowly lowered her
eyes from his handsome, sulky face, played
a little tune on the table, and tried to look

ofrave too. The state of things both bored
and amused her ; she was also conscious of
an odd little excitement, which made her
heart beat rather faster than usual. Celia was
nothing if not practical ; she was never afraid
to face facts, or their consequences either.

He and I in love with each other ! What
an awful business ! Oh, nonsense ; how can
he be such a fool !'

This thought flashed throuoi her mind,
while her fingers tapped the table impatiently.
Glancing up again for an instant, she knew
that life would have been a different thing if
such a man as Ascent had been in Paul's
place. The thought was not quite new ; she
had crushed it dov\m before, as she crushed
it now, at once and without jDity ; but tu-days
there was this to be said in excuse for
it : Vincent had never before given it a right
to exist.

Isn't it time to go V she said presently,
in her gentlest, coolest manner. ' Those dear
things will be getting anxious about us.'

Sick of it, are you ? So am I,' said Yin-cent
savagely, as he met her blue eyes looking
at him in a sort of sweet mockery. ' The
sooner it's over the better. This sort of thing
is unbearable, you know.'

Weak tea, and midges that bite one's
nose,' said Celia. ' Xo, I agree with you ;
the sooner it's over the better. Only do try
not to be so cross about it. Remember, it
is our last afternoon, except Sunday, which
doesn't count for much. Next Saturday you
will be ever so far away.'

And much difference that will make to
you. You will sleep just the same on Monday
night, and laugh and play tennis with
some fools all day on Tuesday, and never 
well, never give me another thought, after

all these seeks we have had together. And
now you tell me not to be serious. It's
the truth, Celia  I was thinking just now
in spite of all our jolly time together, you
wouldn't care one straw if you heard I was
dead.'

So Celia found herself among the rocks in
earnest ; but her power of steering was still
equal to the occasion. She answered him
very quietly.

Please don't say what is not true. I
shall miss you very much ; but is that a
reason why I should make you and myself
unhappy by being dismal beforehand V

At the same time she knew that Vincent
was riofht in his forebodings of her behaviour
next week, only  poor Vincent  with the
addition of Paul. His last bitter words,
You wouldn't care one straw if you heard I
was dead,' she could have answered effectively

in certain lines from ' Chastened,' which had
been copied out for her once upon a time by
a friend who knew her well, and loved her
with a romantic girl's love in spite of it.

Nay, dear, I have
No tears in me ; I never shall weep much,
I think, in all my life ; I have wept for wrath
Sometimes, and for mere pain, but for love's pity
I cannot weep at all. I would to God
You loved me less ; I give you all I can
For all this love of yours, and yet I am sure
I shall live out the sorrow of your death
And be glad afterwards.'

But Celia was not at all inclined now to
run into any poetical exaggerations, or to
think of the future, even the near future of
next week. The present, with its sudden
and strange developments, was quite enough
to occupy her. She was no longer amused
now, but vexed and astonished. Vincent had
changed so unaccountable, while she had not
changed at all : it was really most provoking.

She had believed both him and herself out
of reach of violent feelings of any sort. She
saw no reason why their summer should
not end as pleasantly as it had begun ; to her
his reproaches would have been absolutely
laughable, if they had not been unspeakably
tiresome, and had not brought with them,
like an echo, the slightest sting of regret,
the faintest shiver, making her fancy for a
moment that she herself was as foolish as
Vincent, and that a sort of dark curtain
was drawing down over her world, flowery
garden and stealing river, because he was
going away.

But she was only weak for a moment,
and proceeded to behave with all the calm
food sense for which her aunt oave her
credit. She looked up at him again, this
time leaving all mockery and chaff* out of
the question.

VOL. I. 6

 Don't be silly,' she said, ' and don't be
unjust.'

'I beg your pardon, Celia,' he said,
brought back suddenly to reason by a
stronger nature than his own ; and then
she laughed a little, and he smiled rather
queerly.

I had better go and pay for this tea,'
he said. ' We may as well start : it will begetting
foggy.'

Very well,' said Celia ; and while he
Event off up to the house, she strolled down
to the boat, stopping on the old red-brick
steps to gather clove pinks, almost black in
the shadow, but richer scented than ever
after the sunny day.

There she stood, looking into the water
till Vincent came, wishing a little, too late,
that he knew of her engagement. As for
telling him, she did not feel inclined to do

i

anything so disagreeable, especially as Paul
was now at Woolsborough. She was sorry
now that she had not told him to stay away
till Monday ; not that she could not keep
him in perfect order ; but Vincent's newly-discovered
feelings would make his eyes unnaturally
sharp, she knew, and a scene
before he went was a thing very much to
be avoided.

She took the sculls on the way down,
and he sat in the stern, and smoked cigarettes,
and watched her as she rowed. The
autumn afternoon was already growing misty
and dim ; those mounting clouds, which Paul
saw from the towing-path at Woolsborough,
were slowly climbing in the west ; the red
suffused light of the sun as he descended
made the broad calm river glow like polished
copper. There was no sound but a taint
splash against the bank here and there ; a

62

ripple about a fallen tree, showing how fast
that silent current ran ; or the rising of a
fish suddenly. Vincent and Celia started
on their last little voyage in silence, but she
put out all her young strength, and the boat
went flying down the stream. She rowed
as if she was anxious to bring this chapter
in her story to an end. At first Vincent
did not interfere, but he very soon began to
show that this wish was not his.

Easy now,' he said. * What's the use
of a pace like that ? The stream will take
us down quite soon enough.'

I don't think so, do you know,' she
answered. * It will be nearly dark when
we oet home, and Aunt Flo will be anxious
about us.'

Celia, how false you are !'

Vincent, you are very disagreeable.'

No,' he said gravely.  I can't go on

chaffing for ever, like you, but I am never
disagreeable. I'm in earnest, and I'm unselfish,
which is an awful thing to have to
be. Some people can do that sort of thing
cheerfully, but I can't. They are either
cold-blooded, like fish, or else they are
saints. I am neither one nor the other.'

You are very mysterious,' said Celia,
pulling a little harder than before. ' I never
suspected you of being a saint, but then  I
didn't even know you were unselfish.'

I don't suppose you did. That is you*
coldness. As cold as a fish, as hard as a
stone '

What a character !' she said, with a
little laugh. * False, cold, hard. It is a
pity you have found out aU that. We
might as well have parted friends.'

Look here. Change places with me.'

No, thanks. I would rather stay here.'

If you don't, I shall upset the boat,'
said Vincent quietly.

She hesitated a moment. On any afternoon
before she would have dared him todo
it ; but to-day his temper seemed a little
dangerous, and she did not even care to
provoke a dispute with him. After all,
what did it matter ? Celia had one great
secret of success in life. She could see the
relative importance of things. She had no
small humours and obstinacies, and knew
when she had better give in. On this
occasion, the change would only mean fretting
home rather later ; nobody would be
angry, and nobody, except Paul, would be
anxious. So they changed places, and
Vincent almost immediately shipped his
oars and lighted another cigarette. Celia
settled herself very comfortably among her
cushions in the stern, and wrapped a warm

shawl round her shoulders. They went on
drifting slowly down the stream. Damp
mists were gathering ; the red glow was
becoming still more lurid and dim.

So you did not know I was unselfish ?'
said Vincent presently.

I really don't believe I ever thought
about it,' Celia answered languidly.

She was half angry with him, and in her
heart she said, with quite human impatience :
What a bore you are !' But the voice that
spoke, in its utter sweetness, coldness, and
indifference, might have belonged to the
classic nymph who reigns over that river,
and might have warned a daring mortal to
venture no farther. If Celia had spoken
like that to Paul Romaine, nothing more
would have been heard of him or his pretensions
; but Captain Percival was not so
sensitive.

After all,' he began, ' Celia  don't you
think we may as well understand each other
before I go away ?'

 About your unselfishness, do you mean ?'
said his cousin, in the same languid
tone.

If she could still keep off the evil moment
she would ; and yet with her vexation a
little feeling of triumph mixed itself That
Vincent  selfish, worldly, mercenary (but
she only called it prudent) with his faultless
taste, and his tremendous admiration
for himself  should be reduced to making
love to his penniless cousin, and breaking
all his fine resolves to leave England a freeman
unless ten thousand a year happened
to fall at his feet  it was too funny really.
Celia was sorry, of course ; but she was not
altogether displeased. Imagine the feelings
of. Aunt Flo and Uncle Tom; could they

ever have suspected their iiiagniticent son
of such an aberration !

It would have been better, after all, to
spoil the fun of the summer by letting the
world and Vincent know of her stupid engagement.
Must she tell him now ? No,
she could not. There were plenty of
obstacles without that. She must write
to him next week, or make Aunt Flo write
for her ; a letter might catch him at Gibraltar.
But even now, in site of his
strange talk, she could hardly believe that
Vincent absolutely meant to ask her to
marry him. If so, it was a pity indeed
that the thing was impossible ; for though
she was not actually in love with Vincent,
any more than with Paul, she admired
Vincent more than any man she had ever
seen.

Yes, about my unselfishness, if you like

to put it in that way,' he said. ' I want
you to understand that. There's nothing
else in the way, that I know of. Don't
you know what I should do if I was selfish,
Celia ?'

 Riddles are far too much trouble,' she
said. ' As you are not selfish, and can't
do it, why should I bother myself to
guess ?'

Very true,' said Vincent. ' I should ask
you to marry me.'

To this Celia made no answer at all.

You have made a conquest you see, dear,'
her cousin went on. ' Well, we both know
it is no use thinking of it. The Canon does
not see his wav to making me a larger allowance,
and a man can't very easily alter his
tastes, or his way of living. You would
hate poverty just as much as I should ; in
fact, I could not expose you to it. Now,

Celia, perhaps you understand that going
away is something of a grind.'

A long silence followed. The light was
fading fast now, and the wooded banks
loomed dark above the water. Vincent
seemed to feel that he must do something ;
he unshipped the sculls again, and began
rowing gently. He looked at Celia, sitting
dark and muffled in the stern ; her face was
turned away from him, a little towards the
bank, and looked very pale.

 Can't you say anything, Celia ?' he said
at last. ' Of course it is for my own misery
that I love you. I didn't mean to tell you
but it could not be helped.'

Why did you tell me ? I don't quite
know,' she said. ' What do you want me to
say ? I can only say I am very sorry.'

You see what I mean, don't you ? You
think it is impossible ?'

Perfectly impossible.' She was going to
add  ' for more reasons than one,' but she
stopped herself, fearing to bring on worse
explanations.

At the same time, Vincent's words, and
the tone of his voice, gave her more intense
pain than she had thought possible, and she
was angry with herself and with the pain.
But it only made her own voice colder and
harder when she spoke again.

I cannot imagine why you told me. What
could be the use of it V

It did seem useless,' Vincent confessed ;
but put yourself in my place, and you won't
wonder so much. Going away for years,
and leaving you, and not knowing what
might happen ; and then the thought that
somebody else might turn up  of course he
will ; and Celia, am I going beyond the
truth when I say that you like me better



than the rest of the world ? in fact, that
both you and I are never so happy as when
we are together. You will miss me, I know,
though of course not so much as I shall
miss you.'

Have you forgotten that I am hard, and
cold, and false V said Celia ; ' or that I am
to play tennis and enjoy myself more than
ever next week, when you are gone away V

* Nonsense ! I only said all that because
you provoked me, and I wanted to see what
you would say. Now listen. We can't
know anything about the future, hang it !
but, dear, will you be engaged to me ? and
some day I shall get an appointment that I
can marry on, or I shall leave the service
and go into trade, or something. Anything,
so that we shall belong to each other. Will
you, darling ?'

In spite of all Celia's common sense, for a

minute or two she wavered terribly. It was
a, good thing that Vincent could not see
what she was thinking of, or know what a
thrill of pleasure his words sent through her
whole nature, strong and cool as it was. It
was a good thing, too, that they were in a
boat, where he could not behave unreasonably.
In the few moments before she spoke
Celia reviewed the pros and cons in her
mind. This was a man she could love  but
he would soon cease to love her. She knew
him too well to deceive herself about that.
Poverty, discontent, repentance, to follow on
a little romance unnatural to both of them.
While Paul Romaine and Red Towers would
be always the same, always her own, and
life would be what she chose to make it.

I would not be so unkind to you, Vincent,'
she. said. ' No ; please say no more about
it. Your father and mother would be awfully

vexed, and it would be ruin to you. I am
not unselfish, don't think so. You are
rather mistaken about me  at least, you
were more right in what you said before. I
am a very cold person, I dare say. Anyhow,
I couldn't do this. And you have
astonished me so utterly, that I feel sure it
is not my fault.'

After that the boat flew down the river
again, and was soon passing by old red
houses and gardens full of fruit-trees, and
then flashed with dangerous speed under the
railway-bridge, and over many broken reflections
of the lights of the town, and then
under the other bridge where the boats were,
and up at last to the landing-place at River
Gate. There, in the dark, Paul was standing,
and Celia, who had steered through the
last half hour in some fear of her life, caught
both his hands so joyfully that he was

repaid for his waiting. She laughed and
talked excitedly as she walked up through
the garden. Paul too was in the highest
spirits ; but they did not let out their
secret to Vincent, who followed them silently.

Celia LOVER.

There was a small dinner-party at River
Gate that evening. It was not a very
happy evening to any one concerned, except,
perhaps, to the Canon, who liked giving
dinner-parties. Mrs. Percival was painfully
aware that her son Vincent had come back
from his boating in a very bad temper. At
first she suspected that this must be because
of Paul, and that the secret of the engagement
had leaked out somehow. But she
soon perceived that Vincent and Paul were
VOL. L 7

quite as little interested in each other as
they had been at Easter. They were both
watching Celia, to be sure : Vincent silently
and sulkily ; Paul silently and sadly : he
had not yet had a chance of speaking to her
alone, and thought this party a real piece
of barbarity. He supposed they thought
that he was made of patience. Then his
meditations took the form of an admiration
of Celia, that grew more ecstatic every
moment. How wonderfully good she was !
How unselfish ! how kind ! How prettily
she talked to the old men ! how sweetly she
amused the old ladies ! how amiably she
listened to that awful ass young Jackson,
the ncAV Minor Canon, and even played his
accompaniment while he sang a song full of
Darling '  the horrid fool !  looking at her
all the time. It bored her to tears, that was
plain ; foi* she got up instantly, hardly waiting

to be thanked by the hopeless idiot, whom
she left standing by the piano, and came
straight down the room, and stopped where
Paul was planted behind a table. It was
covered with some of Mrs. Percival's most
precious curiosities, which he had been carefully
examining one by one. Celia lingered
a moment by the table, and looked up at
him, smiling. He little knew what his ladylove
really was, or the trouble in her heart
just then, and he looked at her as if he cared
to know nothing but his own love, and pride,
and delight in her.

It isn't all for money,' thought the
strange girl, trying to explain herself a
little. ' He is such a dear fellow. But he
has stolen his eyes from some woman. His
mother must have been lovely.'

It seemed to her that she had forgotten
Paul's face in the weeks he had been away,

72

and had only remembered his other possessions.


I shall be very hapj)y/ she thought, while
he looked at her. ' I wish this horrid worry
had never happened.'

What are you doing all alone here ?'
she said to him softly. ' Why don't you
sing, or play, or something ? Do  just
to show that poor little man what singing
is.'

But a triumph over Mr. Jackson seemed
to Paul quite unnecessary. Unlike many
musical people, he was generous about other
people's music.

He's not so bad  except in his style of
songs,' he said.

 And I dared to play before you  -I, who
can't play two right notes. Poor thing,
hoar you must have suffered ! Why didn't
you come and do it for me ?'

Celia's LOVER loi

 Next time I will, if it's Jackson,' said
Paul ; and Celia laughed.

 Do go and talk to Mrs. Archdeacon,' she
said, and was moving away, but he stopped
her.

I have a hundred things to say. Will
you come out into the garden to-night, when
they are all gone ? There is a moon  just
for a few minutes,' he added quickly, for it
was easy to see that she did not mean to
say yes.

A sort of pained anxiety seemed to put
out the light in his face.

Am I never to have a chance of speaking
to you ?' he said in a whisper, leaning
on the table, while she turned half away.

Oh, don't you be unreasonable,' she said,
with an emphasis he did not understand.
You must trust me  I thought you did.'

 I would trust you with my soul.'

Then don't bother about the garden said
CeHa Lightly ; but her look and smile were
quite reassuring, and scattered his troubles
at once to the wind.

After all, he did not know what they
were. The enofaofement was still a secret :
therefore Celia was of course quite right.
Some girls would have defied the chance of
being found out ; the talk of servants ;
possibly the prowling of that odious Vincent.
His noble Celia was too wise for that. She
had left him now, and was laughing with the
Archdeacon over the cartoon in Pv.nch.
The light fell on her fair bright head, and
flashed in little sparkles on the shiny ornaments
of her black dress, which made her
pretty arms and neck look even whiter than
usual. Her eyes smiled on everyone ; but
so unaffected and unconscious was she in her
happiness, that no one could have guessed

she knew how desperately two men in the
room were in love with her. The Archdeacon
certainly thought himself her chief
admirer, though he half suspected a rival in
young Jackson. That youth, evidently, was
not good enough for her, and he himself was
married. However, there was no harm in
spinning out the interest of Punch as long
as possible. Meanwhile, Paul, a little shamed
by the unselfishness of his love, left the
table of ohjets d'art and went to talk to
Mrs. Archdeacon, who received him kindly,
and asked questions about Switzerland.

Poor Paul ! Celia might well ask him
to trust her, for altogether she treated him
very badly that first evening of his return.
She wished him good-night before everybody
and went upstairs with her aunt. And then
his disappointments were not quite over, for
when he wandered out, in a very sentimental

frame of mind, to the moonlit terrace under
her window, he found that some one was there
before him  Vincent, sitting in a garden-chair,
smoking. Considering that the night
was by no means a summer night, and that
Vincent was a shivery Indian, Paul thought
this the most ridiculous sight he had ever
seen. Perhaps Vincent suspected something,
and did not think the match brood enough
for his cousin ; besides, it was plain enough
that he did not like him. Anyhow, there
would be no peace or freedom till Vincent
was gone. Paul walked quietly away, giving
up his hour on the terrace. But thinking
of the afternoon, and putting things together,
he began to dislike Vincent as cordially as
his kind nature could.

The next mornings thing-s were rather
better. The respectable, old-fashioned world
of WoolsborouQfh was waked bv its chiming

bells to a Sunday of glorious sunshine, still,
serene, and veiled in selden mists which
rolled off gradually.

Paul ran down the broad old staircase at
River Gate ; all the doors were open, and
the house was full of sweet morning air, and
smelling of roses, though a little of autumn
too.

The tall dining-room windows stood open
on the terrace. As Paul came into the
room, Celia too came in from that outside
Paradise of soft light and flowers. She was
dressed in white that morning, with a knot
of red carnations fastened at her throat.
Paul's moment had come at last ; and he
could say : ' Now you are all my OAvn !'
without being interfered with or heard by
any one but his love herself She was not
demonstrative, certainly ; but he thought
nothing of that at the time.

Why were you so cruel to me last
night V he said ; but then she freed the
hand he was holding, and pushed him gently
away with both of them, and would hardly
give him one of her red carnations, though
he begged for it humbly.

Dear, how beautiful you are !' said Paul,
when he had got his carnation, and had
become a little more reasonable, as Celia
called it. ' And I let you send me away
for the whole summer ! You will never do
that again.'

Hush !' she said, for the footman was
coming in with a tray. She was sitting
now in a large chair by the window, and
Paul was standing opposite to her ; she had
refused to go out into the garden. She did
not herself think that she was looking at
all pretty that morning ; even Celia, as she
rashly trusted to nature to keep her beautiful,

could not be quite proof against the
ravages of a bad night. But then she
never had a bad night : this was her first
experience of such a horror, except the
night after her father died.

What are you going to do to-day V
said Paul. ' Cathedral all day, I suppose ?
I shall ask old Chanter if he will let me
play this afternoon.'

Dr. Chanter, the Cathedral organist, a
genius in his way, and an autocrat, was
Paul's chief friend at Woolsborough.

Will you give up the Cathedral to-day,'
said Celia, when they were alone again,
and do something for me V

She was looking at him anxiously ; some
shadow of trouble had found its way into
her eyes that morning, as Paul now began
to see.

What is the matter, dear ?' he asked

with sudden eagerness.  Of course ! What
can I do ?'

Oh, Paul, you will think me such an
odd girl,' she said. ' I am goings to treat
you so badly. I want you to go away today,
to go off somewhere for a long walk,
I mean, and not come back till the evening.
Will you do this to please me, without my
telling you why V

One need hardly say that Celia knew the
nature she had to do with ; she knew that
an appeal like this would touch its highest
point. A man with the makings of a poet
in him is of some use to other people,
though they may agree in calling him a
muff. Still, it was a hard thing to ask of
her young lover, who had been banished
from her all the summer, and had scarcely
yet seen or spoken to her since he came to
Woolsborough. Paul looked at her imploringly



; her eyes as they met his were
mysterious, and told him nothing, except
that she meant what she said. He made a
little movement towards her ; but then the
Canon's dignified step was heard slowly
coming downstairs.

Do you love me, Celia ?' said Paul. ' If
you do, it is all right, and I will give you
my life itself

Don't make conditions,' she said. ' I
don't want your life. There is another red
pink for you.'

And then the Canon came creaking in,
with his satisfied smile, and his half-confidential
' Good morning, young people !' 
that emphasis on the 'good' was a trial to
some of his acquaintances, who did not quite
believe in the Canon.

Then came Mrs. Percival, really kind,
happy and smiling, and breakfast was very

pleasant, though Celia had just turned Paul
out of Paradise. In her presence, Paul was
a little shy with the elder people, and she
herself that morning did not seem much inclined
to talk ; but Vincent did not appear,
so that there was nothing discordant.

Afterwards Paul went off through the
garden, and across the ferry, without a
word to anyone of his intentions.

When the Cathedral bells had nearly
done ringing, and Canon Percival, looking
very handsome in his surplice and college
cap, had started off across the broad sunshine
of the Close, Celia came down and
overtook her aunt at the door. Vincent had
not yet appeared ; but his mother had
seen him, and explained that he had a
headache.

I felt rather angry with him last night,'
said Mrs. Percival. ' He kept you out too

late on the river. It was hard on Paul.
He behaved like an angel though.'

He is angelic,' said Celia quietly. ' But
Vincent didn't know.'

Xo ; very true.' As Mrs. Percival
said this, she determined in her own mind
that she would tell Vincent before he
went away. ' And where is Paul now ?'
she asked. ' Xot escaped to Dr. Chanter
already V

Paul ? I can't exactly tell you where
he is now. He has ozone ois for a lone walk
somewhere.'

Really, Celia ? How odd ! how very
unlike him !'

Between ourselves, Aunt Flo,' said
Celia rather haughtily, and with a slight
effort, * it was not his own wish. I sent
him.'

You sent him 1 Why V

You are clever enough to guess my
reasons.'

You think Vincent will guess if he sees
too much of Paul. Well, my dear, if he
does, I think that would be better than
making a sacrifice of Paul.'

But as she spoke there sprang a keen
suspicion into Mrs. Percival's mind. Was
there anything underhand in Celia's affairs ?
Could anything possibly be going on between
her and Vincent that the elders did
not know ? He certainly had come in very
dismal from the river, and his behaviour all
the evening had been singular in its rudeness.
She quite believed that he knew
nothing of Celia's engagement ; but had
Celia misled him in any way on that subject
? naturally, perhaps, Mrs. Percival
felt sure that her son, and not her niece,
must be the injured person. Women, she

would have argued smilingly, can always
take better care of themselves than poor
dear men. However, as the deep shadow
of the Cathedral porch received herself and
Celia, Mrs. Percival resolved to say nothing
more till the evening ; and then, if things
led up to it, to have an explanation with
her son.

Meanwhile, Paul had left the city and
river far behind him  Cathedral, and organ,
and chapter, old elms in the Close, red
gateways, beetling old windows ; narrow
streets with their shutters shut, full of
smart shop - people in  Sunday garments
glittering gay ' ; back lanes and courts,
where dirty men and women crouched on
doorsteps, untouched by the grand religious
influences that for so many centuries had
governed the town, deaf to the meaning of
the bells that clanged from a dozen steeples

VOL. I. 8

in rivalry of the deeper chime of the
Cathedral  the Woolsborough Sunday was
left behind, only its bells following the
truant for miles, that still autumn day, and
the scent of the River Gate garden going
with him always in Celia's red flowers. He
was not thinking of much besides Celia, ashe
walked westward across meadows and
through the green luxuriant lanes where
blackberries were ripening, and leaves beginning
to be tinted with the last glories of
the year. He was not unhappy, and it
never occurred to him to be angry with
Celia, though she had sent him away from
her for a whole long day. He was one of
those people, of a dreamy disposition, who
can always be happy alone. The strong
passions and excitements of life, which they
share with other human beings, seldom
come to people like this without bringing

them pain, all the sharper for their seeming
indifference : these sleepy natures suffer terribly
when they are awaked, but they enjoy
intensely too. Still, they seem to find their
true happiness  perhaps content is the
right word  in following their own pursuits
quietly. And yet they are those who have
it in them to reach far, even to

The high that proved too high, the heroic for earth too

hard,
The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the
sky.'

Before Paul fell in love with Celia, he
used to tease Canon Percival a good deal
about those dwellers in the back lanes of
Woolsborough. He wished very much to
talk to the Dean about ib, and to have a
Minor Canon sent out from the Cathedral,
with a few chosen choristers, to hold an
open-air service on the quay, at the foot of

82

a certain steep dark street running down to
the river. Then he saw in his mind's eye a
procession headed by these choristers, in
which all sorts of strange beings would be
led gradually up the street, on across the
Close, into the Cathedral itself. Why was
that great church built, if not to gather
souls like these ? But Paul's arguments
did not commend themselves to the Canon,
who smiled blandly, and remembered an
enofao-ement. Mrs. Percival was much
more sympathetic, and sighed over impossibilities.
Celia, when she came, gave no
sympathy at all. She would not even listen
to such dreams, but quietly put herself in
place of them.

Paul walked on across country, that Sunday
morning, in a sort of vague golden
atmosphere made of thoughts of Celia. He
understood pretty well that he was sent

(jut of the way of that sulky Vincent. He
thought it was rather a pity, and could not
quite see why the thing should have been
hidden at all. If Vincent did not like it,
what could that matter ? It was no affair
of his. Celia was not his sister ; the fact
that his father and mother had been very
jjfood to her did not give him a riofht to be
consulted. Paul's reason told him all this,
but he would not have expressed it to
Celia. He was obeying her wish, and that
was enough : the time of trial would soon
be over now.

Paul walked on through that peaceful,
pastoral country, never lonely, though so
still. The villages, which he avoided, lay
to right and left of him ; the deep meadows
were full of cattle, feeding ; the old red
farmsteads lay half-asleep in the sun, in the
middle of their loaded orchards ; and the

church-bells answered each other across the
stretches of shining, shadowy plain. He
had started before ten o'clock, and two
hours' walking brought him to one of the
most picturesque villages in the country.
There was nothing new to be seen there ;
the houses, set, as it seemed, in masses of
many-coloured flowers, were all built of grey
stone, a few whitewashed  nearly all roofed
with beautiful old thatch. The church and
churchyard were set on the side of a hill ;
its small wooden steeple was silent when
Paul got there, for service was going on.
The hand of restoration had touched this
church very gently, only helping it to bear
its weight of years ; for it was one of the
oldest, and, to some people's eyes, the most
beautiful, in all the country-side. Someone
had planted a rose by the porch, which was
now climbing all over the roof, mixed with

the ivy it found there. The small, sloping
churchyard was fenced with a stone wall,
lovely in itself, with a yellow and green
embroidery of moss and fern. Two old
yews laid their heavy shadow on the graves,
especially the older ones ; out in a patch of
sunshine were the newer graves, with fresh
wreaths upon them. Behind the village,
above the churchyard, the country suddenly
changed its character, breaking' into a ridsfe
of hills, from the highest of which  a wild
sheep-walk, partly clothed with bracken,
and crowned with fir - trees  one looked
down first on a very great house, in a park,
belonging to a certain Sir John Lefroy, and
then on a wide westerly view beyond,
bounded by blue hills that suggested Wales.
Paul was rather hot and tired when he
reached the little village. He crossed the
stone stile into the churchyard, and walked

softly on the grass to the entrance of the
low, dark porch. He had heard the people
sinofins: as he came aloof the road : they
were singing still, not very musically, to
the groaning of an organ badly played.
Presently, as Paul listened, they stopped,
and the sermon began. Paul knew something
of the good old Vicar of the place,
whose sermons matched his church excellently
well. But this morning a harsh
new voice startled him unpleasantly. Some
strange clergyman began preaching on the
Creeds of the Church. Their days were
numbered, in his opinion ; but he spoke of
them with a kindly air of patronage, and
advised his hearers  the old blacksmith,
the carpenter's wife, the waggoner and his
family  to bear with them for the present :
Till you and I can make something better
for ourselves.'

Paul, though a young Oxford man and a
thinker in his way, turned impatiently from
the church door, and was crossing the path
on his way to the upper stile, when a man
came out of the church with such hasty
strides that he ran against him and nearly
knocked him down.

Mille pardons, monsieur !' he exclaimed
in great confusion, adding thus to Paul's
amazement. He recovered himself instantly,
however.

It is I who must apologise,' Paul said in
English. ' You naturally did not expect to
find me there.'

Mon Dieu, non !'

Paul was glad to find himself understood.
He looked at his new acquaintance with
some interest and curiosity, as they both
turned off across the grass in the same
direction, passing open windows, through

which the advanced doctrines of the
preacher still fell upon their ears. By
mutual consent they were silent till they
had climbed the slope to the stile beyond the
church, which led to a path crossing the hills.
The Frenchman walked on a pace or two
in front of Paul, who remembered, as he
followed him, that the Lefroys were Roman
Catholics, and had a good many foreign
connections. That mioiit account for what

o

seemed at first such a strange phenomenon.

This foreigner was a good deal older than
Paul ; a man of forty, or rather more. He was
dressed in an English suit of light tweed, in
which he looked odd, somehow. But he was
unquestionably a good-looking man ; tall and
broad, with a short, fair beard and fierce
moustache, and particularly amiable, gentle
blue eyes. In his younger days he had been
considered the handsomest man in Paris. In

fact, he owed his wife to his good looks and
charming disposition, for he was a poor man,
though the head of one of the oldest and
noblest families in France.

When they had reached the top of the hill,
he turned round smiling to Paul, and began
to make another apology, this time in English,
which he spoke remarkably well.

I am perfectly desolated and crushed by
my rudeness,' he said.  I also disturbed the
poor dear congregation, who were listening
like the best of sheep to that oversetting
sermon.'

They could not understand it, I should
think, luckily,' said Paul. ' I came in for a
few sentences, which seemed to me very
ignorant nonsense.'

Well, I am glad we agree. You are
perhaps a Catholic, sir ?'

No ; not in your sense,' said Paul.

Well, forgive me. I shall understand intime.
My catastrophe to-day was a punishment,
I must tell you. Let me explain. I
am staying at the Hall down there  with
a sort of cousins, the Lefroys. But you are
acquainted, no doubt V

This is not my county. I only know
Sir John Lefroy by name.'

Ah  pardon  well, yesterday evening
there was a party at dinner, and a very
charming English lady was kind enough to
inform me about the Church of England,
which she said was purely and simply another
branch of ours. She beoofed me to attend
the services to-day, and to judge for myself.
We had our own mass this morning, of
comes, in my cousin's chapel. Afterwards
I kept my promise, and visited the village
church. All I will say is that I do not see
much resemblance.'

He smiled pleasantly, and shrugged his
shoulders.

But you must not judge by what you
heard this morning,' said Paul.  That gentleman
is one of our new lights, I suppose. Tome
they ai-e all rather illogical  but he is
worse than that.'

Many people will not believe in a creed
of his making ?'

I should think not  but I suppose he
will be satisfied if he believes in it himself


 And it is all like that. Then my pretty
friend was mocking me.'

No ; I don't think so,' said Paul.

It was a puzzling position to be placed in
suddenly, the position of apologist for the
English Church. However, Paul was o-ood
at argument : and he had not to do with a
bigot or a specialist, but with an amiable,

liberal, and perfectly courteous man. They
crossed the stile and slowly climbed the hill.
Under the fir-trees at the top they sat down,
and talked for a long time. Presently they
heard the chatter and tramp of the congregation
coming' out of church, but no one came
their way ; they sat in the hot, still shade 
there was not even wind enough to make
music in the branches above them  and they
talked on, passing from religious questions to
politics, and then to more personal matters,
till they had actually talked themselves into
a sort of friendship. It was, of course, the
Frenchman's doing ; he was the most friendly
and sociable of men ; and he lead taken a
fancy to Paul in the moment that they met
so strangely at the church-door. It was not
very wonderful. Paul was cultivated, he
was thoughtful and clever, he was a little
old-fashioned in his manners and talk, and

he was not limited by any suspicion of
foreigners. He liked older men than himself,
and had preferred Colonel Ward, till now, to
any of his younger friends, of whom, in fact,
he had not many. With such men, if they
suited him, he was not boyish and shy, as
women often found him ; or odd and dismal,
as some men thought him. Paul, at his
best, was a young man worth knowing, and
worth talking to ; but not very many people
were aware of this.

Before they parted, Paul had told the
Frenchman about his old home in Surrey ;
and the Frenchman had told him that he,
too, had an old house of his own down in
the west of France, but almost too ruinous
to be inhabited, except in the height of
summer. He also told Paul that his wife
had died several years ago, and that he had
one child, a daughter of fourteen ; but Paul's

confidence did not go quite to this length,
and he said nothing about Celia.

At last they were disturbed by the clanging
of a bell from the great house of the
park.

I must go said Paul's new friend ;  but
first, my dear sir, let us know each other s
names,' and he handed Paul a card on which
the inscription looked very splendid. ' Mis.
de la Tour-Montmirail.'

 Thank you very much,' said Paul. ' I
haven't got a card. My name is Romaine
Paul Romaine.'

That is not hard to remember,' said
M. de Montmirail. ' And you are staying at
Woolsborough ? I hope we shall meet again.'

He bowed, and then took Paul's fingers
for a moment, smiling : then bowed again,
and walked off with rather careful steps down
the rough side of the hill.

Paul sat where he had left him for sometime
longer, gazing at the wide blue view,
thinking of the queer encounter and all they
had talked about. Then he suddenly found
out that he was ver" hungry, and he left his
hill-top and went down into the village, where
he got some bread and cheese at the little
inn, before starting off bv a honos roundabout
way back to Woolsborough. If he did not
reappear before six o'clock, he supposed Celia
would be satisfied.

VOL. I.

VINCENT.

Paul's little world at River Gate had not
been very peaceful while he was away. He
had the best of it, out in the quiet country,
with the easy and agreeable companionship
of M. de Montmirail, and the silent friendliness
of cows, sheep, and butterflies. Of the
people he had left behind, not any were
without their own causes of disquietude,
except perhaps the Canon, who was a very
happy man.

 Vincent was in a terrible temper that
Sunday afternoon. He visited his private

griefs on his mother and the servants, finding
out that his packing for India had been
entirely neglected, though, in fact, her head
and their hands had been busy with it for a
week past. He tormented everyone frightfully
for about two hours that hot afternoon
everyone but Celia, who kept prudently
out of the way. At last, Mrs. Percival
began to see that he was growing more calm,
and beginning to believe her assurances that
everything had been thought of She could
not exactly be angry with Vincent, when he
was going to leave her the next day, probably
for years ; but his selfish, inconsiderate,
ungrateful complaints and grumbling, his
exigence beyond all limits, were almost too
much for her generally charming temper,
and she was looking quite pale and tired
when she escaped at last into her shady
sitting-room, sank into a low chair, and took

92

up a fan. Hers, however, was one of those
natures which rebounds instantly, and sees
the bright side of things in spite of itself
Of course she loved her son, and his going
away was a serious trouble to her ; but, at
the same time, she was conscious that his
departure meant peace. Perhaps, after all,
he would be ordered home before so very
long ; and in the meantime Celia's affairs
would be happily and irrevocably settled ;
there would be no more anxiety on that
account. But Mrs. Percival decided, as she
fanned herself, that she really could not tell
Vincent of Celia's eno'ao;'ement to-dav. Celia
must be left to manage her own affairs ; and,
behoof now harder-hearted than in the morning,
Mrs. Percival reflected that Vincent
was perfectly able to take care of himself
The Canon was right ; neither of thee
young people was a fool. As Mrs. Percival

comforted herself thus, the door was opened
impatiently and Vincent came in. Her little
room, and especially her very comfortable
sofa, was a favourite refuge of his on these
summer afternoons ; it looked over trees and
down the river, away from the Cathedral,
which Vincent did not care to contemplate,
and away from its chimes, which he hated to
hear.

Very well,' said Mrs. Percival, when her
son came in, and flung himself as usual on
the sofa. ' I see you have a horrid headache
still. So have I. You had better ofo
to sleep for an hour, my dear.'

Vincent made no reply at once. Presently
he said : ' Mother, I have something
on my mind.'

I hoped it was all off your mind by this
time,' said Mrs. Percival. ' Something else
forgotten ?'

No, no, mother ! don't go on plaguing
about that. It is something you will have
to do for me while I am away.'

Oh certainly, dear Ninny ! What is it ?'

Take care of Celia.'

To say that these words startled Mrs.
Percival would be speaking very mildly.
They literally took her breath away. She
gasped, and her pale face became crimson.
Vincent, staring out of the window, was not
instantly aware of her consternation ; but her
silence made him look at her.

 What's the matter ?' he asked, with
something like a smile. * I say, what the
deuce have I said V

Take care of Celia !' Mrs. Percival repeated,
in a stifled, horrified whisper.

You think I ought to make a better
match  is that it ?' he said coolly.  I
think I am old enough to judge for myself.

Anyhow, I mean to marry Celia. Not just
yet, of course. But I have friends out
there who can get me a staff appointment,
if they exert themselves ; and then, if I
can't get leave, she can come out to me.
Many girls do the same ; it's nothing. As
for being poor, of course we shall be poor.
You are surprised, of course ; you did not
expect it. I am rather surprised at myself
But there are times in a man's life when
the only thing to say is, " Prudence be
hanged !" and this is one of them, my dear
mother, you see.'

Vincent, I don't knows what to say to
you r exclaimed Mrs. Percival. ' How

could you What a dreadful, dreadful

thing !'

Her son stared at her now in some astonishment
; he had not expected that his announcement
would be so terribly hard to swallow.

She started up from her chair, and walked
away from him to the farthest window,
swinging her fan backwards and forwards
violently, while the sudden colour fled from
her face, leaving her painfully pale.

Would anyone believe that a woman
could be so worldly !' said Vincent in a voice
of extreme irritation.  Your niece is left
without a penny ; you have her to live with
you. A pretty girl ; more than that  one
of the most beautiful girls in England, and
the most taking. You make use of her from
morning till night. Your own daughter, if
you had one, would not be half such a slave.
She tires herself to death doing your flowers
and things, and works like a horse entertaining
people at your stupid parties. And
after all that, because I happen to appreciate
her, you speak to me as if I had committed
a crime. " A dreadful, dreadful thing !"

'' How could I "  how could I do anything
else, I wonder ? Upon my word, I don't
understand you. The way you take it is
extraordinary.'

Great are the inconsistencies of human
nature. This same man, twenty-four hours
before, would have said it was impossible he
should marry his cousin ; would have hardly
confessed, then, that he was very much in
love with her. Strange inconsistency, and
strange effect of a little opposition !

During these disagreeable remarks of
Vincent's, Mrs. Percival stood at the window
and collected her wits. She realized that
the person to be blamed was not Vincent,
but Celia, who must have deceived him for
her own amusement in some unaccountable
way. It must have been merely for amusement
; she could not think of jilting Paul.
Vincent, poor thing, might be carried away

by his feelings. A girl like Celia, never ;
at least, Mrs. Percival could hardly believe it.

Does Celia know V she said, without
looking round.

I told her yesterday,' Vincent answered.
She would not listen. I suppose she thought
it wouldn't do : girls don't understand. But
she will find I am not to be put off like that.
As to saying anything more to her now, I am
not sure. I shall write to her. In the meanwhile,
you have got to see that nobody else
carries her off. Her having no money is a
protection, of course : men in these days
don't run after poor girls, however pretty
they may be.'

Vincent's way of talking was characteristic
of him, and did not surprise his mother much,
though perhaps it struck her more painfully
than ever before. However, she was at present
possessed by one thought ; this affair

must be cleared up ; whether Celia wished
it or not, Vincent must know all, and understand
plainly that there was no hope for him.
No wonder Celia had seemed a little distraite
that morning ; no wonder she had sent
Paul away for the day.

Mrs. Percival turned away from the
window, came back to her chair, and sat
down. Her face was full of trouble ; she
played with her fan, and did not look at
Vincent, who watched her with a curious,
sardonic expression.

I am to understand, then, Vincent,' she
said, ' that Celia has refused you V

Something of the kind,' he said. ' It
was impossible ; she couldn't ; and so forth.
You have brought her up to be as prudent
as yourself.'

You need not say that. Besides, Celia has
only lived with me for a few months, as you

know. She gave you no reason  no real
reason, I mean V

No. I believe she said what she thought
she ought to say. You would object ; it
would be ruin to me, and the rest of it. All
that is my affair, as I shall make her understand.
She will say ' yes " in the end.'

I think not, Vincent.'

Why ?' he said angrily.

She ought to have told you herself ; it is
no use telling half the truth. She was right
so far, you know. Your father and I must
have objected strongly to such an absurd
marriage for you. It would not have been
for Celia's happiness either ; and I am bound
to think of that.'

You had better leave that to us, mother.
What do you mean, though V

Celia is the kind of girl who ought to
marry a rich man. You may believe me,

Vincent, when she refused you, she meant

it;

And where is the rich man to come
from V he said, frowning. ' Upon my word,
you talk in plainer English than most people.
Celia a girl to refuse a man because he
is poor ! Why you should attribute such
motives to your niece I cannot conceive,'
said this suddenly unworldly hero. ' She
refused me because she thought it was her
duty. You can't understand her ; she is a
far finer girl than you think. Let me tell
you she likes me too much to refuse me for
any other reason.'

 I tell you, Vincent,' said his mother,
looking at him now", and speaking quite
solemnly,  Celia refused you because she
means to marry a rich man. And she
ought to have told you the whole truth
about it.'

Nonsense ! How could she tell me such
a thing as that ? You are losing your senses.
Besides, it's a lie !'

Mrs. Percival flushed a little, but answered
him very quietly :

I have no doubt you made it difficult for
her. Now prepare yourself, for I must tell
you what you will think bad news. Celia is
engaged. Now you know the truth about it.'

To a rich man V asked Vincent, with
sneering coolness, though his eyes flashed
and a curious white look came into his face.

Yes, to a rich man. No one knows of
the engagement except your father and myself
Unless you insist, perhaps I need not
tell you who it is. He does not belong to
this neighbourhood.'

Youno- Romaine, for instance V said Vincent
; and he yawned.

Why do you think so ? Yes, it is Paul

Romaine. And I think Celia is a fortunate

girl.'

How loner has this been of-oinof on V

Since he left Oxford in June. He was
here for a few days then ; you were away.'

And what excellent object was gained by
not telling me V

I don't know, Vincent, really,' his mother
said, after a moment's hesitation. ' Celia
wished most particularly that no one should
know. We wanted to have a quiet, comfortable
summer. He being so young, there was
no hurry, and he was going abroad for some
weeks  he has only just come back, you
know. Your father and I agreed with Celia :
we were glad to say nothing. I meant to
tell you about it in my first letter this week.
Of course, when we leave Woolsborough and
go to Holm, it won't matter ; everybody
must know soon. And if I could have foreseen

such a complication as this  well, I have
had my fears  but your father and I both
thought that you and Celia were too sensible
for any nonsense, and we knew you did not
particularly like Paul ; and we thought it

would be pleasant '

Vincent threw himself back on the sofa,
and burst into a loud fit of laughter. His
mother, it must be confessed, felt more inclined
to cry. In the course of her easy,
luxurious life, she had hardly ever met with
anything so disagreeable.

Miss Celia  well, she is a clever girl !'
Vincent exclaimed at last.

If she has encouraged you  if she has
flirted with you, she has behaved shamefully,'
said Mrs. Percival. * My dear, believe me,
I am most dreadfully sorry that this has
happened.'

So am I. You have made me look like



an uncommon fool. But you need not blame
Celia ; she snubbed me as much as she could,
and made me very angry.'

He was quiet enough now : he even
seemed, for some mysterious reason, to be
in a better temper than before he heard the
news which made his case hopeless. Mrs.
Percival saw that the awful scene of ravings
and reproaches, which she had feared, was
not to take place after all ; she felt comforted
accordingly.

I do hope you will forgive us, Vincent
dear,' she said. * You know what a trouble
this is to me ; and I feel that we have all
treated you so badly. One tries to act for
the best, and then this sort of thing happens.
I think Celia must be very sorry, too. I am
sure she is  she likes you so much, and you
have been so happy together all this time.
Can't you understand a little, dear, that we

VOL. I. 10

didn't wish to interfere with such a nice
cheerful summer ? But now I do hope you
will go away and forget all about it. I
assure you Celia was not quite the right
sort of girl for you  to marry, I mean 
never could have been. She is very dear
and nice, and all that ; but there is not very
much in her. If either of you had had
enough money  even then I should have
been sorry  I couldn't have approved. First
cousins, too  such a pity !'

As Mrs. Percival gently chattered thus,
she was looking her sweetest ; the trouble
had gone out of her eyes, and they were
smiling and shining as usual ; her pretty
hands caressed her fan. One of the little
doors came scratching the door before she
had quite done ; she got up and let him in,
talking all the time. She had had a bad
quarter of an hour, certainly ; but, like a

certain King of old, she seemed to think that
its bitterness was jast.

And you are going to marry Cela to
that boy ! CeHa !' Vincent muttered half
to himself, without taking any notice of her
explanations. ' That is what you call a rich
man ! And you think those two suited to
each other, do you V

He is a rich man, and a very dear
fellow,' said Mrs. Percival rather faintly.

A muff and a milksop, with his head
wrapped up in books and organs. However,
if you are pleased  and Celia '

He got up and marched out of the room.

Mrs. Percival drew a long breath, fanned
herself, and stroked her little dog.

Oh, my Toto !' she said. ' Why are not
men as nice as little doors ?'

o

There was only one answer possible, which
Toto gave with many wags of fun and

10  2

affection  because little dogs are made so
much nicer than men.

When Captain Percival left his mother,
he Event heavily downstairs and out into the
garden, feeling himself a terribly injured
man. This concealment of a fact that touched
him so nearly might be apologized for ; it
could hardly be forgiven. They had all
behaved to him abominably. If he had
been a gossiping girl, they could not have
treated him with more insulting distrust.
Early in the summer, when this was arranged,
he would not have cared a straw who Celia
married : now it was a different thino\
Celia herself must have known perfectly well
that he was falling in love with her ; her
behaviour had been heartless, especially
yesterday, when she laughed at him, and drew
hin on  yes, she certainly drew him on,
only to laugh at him. He would not confess

it to his mother, but Celia's behaviour had
made him very sore. He had been ready
to give up everything for her. She, with
her affairs comfortably arranged, must indeed
have laughed at him for a fool. She unselfish !
no, truly. ' Anyhow I couldn't do this,' she
said ; no, for a very good reason  ' I am
going to do something I like better.' And
that maddening smile in her eyes all the
time.

Vincent paced up and down the garden,
thinking at first that he would go to London
that night, and see none of them again.
People who had treated him so odiously were
not worth a regret. His father, too ; but
he did not waste many thoughts on him, not
having much esteem for his father. His
mother and Celia were the people he wanted
to punish. After all, starting off at once
would be uncomfortable to himself, and would

do them no harm ; they might even be glad
to get rid of him. Wandering along, his
angry face bent towards the ground, he had
reached one of the lower walks of the garden,
a grass walk, backed by a tall hedge of
laurustinus, bordered with a bright confusion
of flowers, and looking straight over the old
wall to the river, the meadows, the soft
distant view of that country through which
Paul was now returning. And at the end
of this walk there was a summer-house,
fenced in by roses ; and in the shadow, ashe
came near, Vincent caught sight of a
figure in a white dress, sitting. He had
been arranofinof with himself, a moment
before, that he would treat Celia with the
coldest contempt, and hardly even speak to
her, except to say good-bye. But this resolution
had been made when Celia was
nowhere near ; and now another moment

brought him to the summer-house. She got
up, looking pale in the trembling shadows,
and her eyes were anxious, though she
smiled.

Is the packing all done V she said. ' Does
Aunt Flo want me V

No, she doesn't want you,' said Vincent ;
but I do. Don't be frightened. I only
wish to offer you my  congratulations, I
suppose, on your brilliant prospects.'

Celia looked at him ; she was not smiling
now. His look and tone of bitter coldness
and anger roused some defiance to meet it.
She coloured, drew herself up, and waited
silently.

 I have only just been told what I should
have known all the summer,' Vincent went
on.  I consider that I have been abominably
treated. I have been cheated and deceived.
My mother knows what I think.

and I shall not forgive her or my father.
As to you '  and his voice suddenly changed
' CeHa ! Celia I'

It was a cry of real passion, and Celia
was frightened ; not so much perhaps at him,
as at the sudden and overpowering wave of
feeling in herself which answered it. What
was to happen, indeed, if she could not hold
her own now !

Vincent came a step nearer, and took both
her hands, looking down into her eyes and
speaking in a low voice, terrible to her from
its very restraint. She bit her lips and
stood before him like a statue.

Has my mother told me the truth V he
said. ' Is it true that you are engaged to
young Romaine ? Why did not you tel me
yesterday, or weeks ago ? Why did you
make me love you, only to end like this ?
Answer me, Celia.'

Because  if you were nice like other
people,' murmured Celia in desperation,
one wouldn't be afraid to tell you things.
As to making you  you know that is false.
I have done nothing of the kind. When
you said those things yesterday I was dreadfully
sorry ; but I did not bring it on myself,
you know I did not. Let me go, please.
Yes, I am enoaor'ed. Let me ofo.' He
dropped her hands, but still stood in the
door of the summer-house, so that she could
not pass.

Why did not you tell me yesterday, in
the boat ?' he said. ' Why were you afraid 
What could I have done ?'

You might have upset the boat,' she
answered, with a faint smile. ' You said
you would, once.'

A witch like you could not have been
drowned.'

A baby could  and you were not sure
which I was, yesterday.'

She was glad, for a moment, of this return
to the old terms of chaffing and nonsense,
that seemed natural between them. But,
after all, an angry distance would have been
better. The anoer was fading out of his
face, but it was not succeeded by indifference.

Celia, you are an awful girl,' he said.
You break one's heart, and won't let one
be angry with you. What nonsense it is,
this engagement ! My mother made it up,
of course. You can't marry a fellow like
that  you. Break it off, Celia  dear  for
my sake  and come out to me as soon as I
can send for you  or marry me tomorrow
morning, if you will. I felt sure, don't you
see, that you would not say no, and I began
telling mother my plans just now, and she
crushed me with this horrible news. I daresay

it drove me mad, at first, and I did not
know what I was saying. If I have spoken
to you Hke a brute, forgive me  Cela !'

If Vincent could have known how Celia
was fighting against herself at that moment,
and how joyfully half of her would have
given itself to him, his victory would not
have been doubtful for two minutes longer.
But he did not know, and thought her coldness
greater than it really was ; and so he
went on talking with a doubt of his success,
which every moment became more unlikely.
If Celia had time to think, the prudent and
the practical were sure to gain the day.
And then, long before his hopeless pleading-was
finished, came Mrs. Percival's voice
calling over the garden  ' Celia, Celia !' 
and his cousin turned to him, her eyes
wonderful in their depth of smiling blue, and
said :

Some day you will know it is all for the
best. Look here : cousins have a right to
be very fond of each other, and I shall always
be very fond of you.'

Vincent laughed.

Cold comfort, my dear,' he said. ' Fond
or not, I have been horribly treated. Celia
I think you mioiit kiss me  once, to makeup
for it all.'

Aunt Flo is coming,' Celia said ; but she
did not think it necessary to carry her
snubbing any further : poor Vincent was
quite tame now, and was going away tomorrow.


They strolled up the garden together ;
and when Mrs. Percival met them, though
Vincent was melancholy, Celia was laughing.
Mrs. Percival looked at her niece with
admiration and wonder.

ILLUMINATIONS.

Mrs. Percival generally had a tea-party on
Sunday afternoon. People had a way of
driving in from the country to the far-famed
evenings service at Woolsborouofh Cathedral,
and River Gate was a very agreeable refuge
on these occasions ; Canon Percival was
always hospitable and gracious, his wife was
always charming. Towards half-past six a
large party used to stream across the Close
from River Gate to the Cathedral, with a
certainty of finding good places ; for the head

verger, the greatest man in Woolsborough,
was Mrs. Percival's slave.

On Vincent's last Sunday, only one party
of people came in to tea. They were entertained
by the Canon, Mrs. Percival, and
Celia, as pleasantly as usual ; but they were
not interesting people, and they went away
early, having brought some visitors of their
own with them, to whom they wished to
show the Cathedral.

They wanted you to go with them. Uncle
Tom,' said Celia, looking up with some mischief
in her eyes.

They must excuse me, Celia,' said the
Canon. ' I cannot act showman for ever,
you see ; and these good people  you will
agree with me that they are a little dull, and
that half an hour of them is enough. Some
of these excellent country clergy don't quite
realize that the Canon of a cathedral, and

the rector of a large town parish, like me,
has a good deal to occupy his time, without
the self-imposed duty of giving lectures to
ladies on architecture. Of course, if people
are really intelligent, really artistic, it is a
different thing ; they are worth a little
sacrifice.'

Or really rich, really great, really worth
cultivating in any way, an ill-natured person
mio-ht have added : but there was not (ene
present, fortunately.

 No more tea, thank you, my dear,' said
the Canon. ' I hope you are going to make
a disturbance about this tea ; there is certainly
something wrong in the flavour. Celia,
you are looking brilliant. And where is
poor Vincent ? I must have a talk with
my son before I lose him.'

I think he escaped into the library,' said
Mrs. Percival.

There I shall find him, probably,' said
the Canon, and he walked away. Not finding
Vincent in the library, he did not search
any further, but sat down in his favourite
chair and fell peacefully asleep.

The aunt and niece, left together in the
drawing-room, were silent for a minute or
two. Each of them hardly knew whether
she ought to be angry with the other ; both
of them, being very sweet-tempered, were
unwilling to find this necessary. Those good
people from the country had arrived almost
directly after Mrs. Percival met the two
young people in the garden, so that there
had been no time yet for any explanation.

Paul outfit to be in soon,' said Mrs.
Percival, having given her little dogs their
bits of sugar and saucers of cream.  How
about Paul, Celia ? Do you know that I
have been very much startled to-day ?'

I hope you have heard nothing about me
to vex you, Aunt Flo said Celia meekly ;
her tone now was very different from what
it had been in the morning.

 Most likely you know already what I
have heard.' Mrs. Percival went on talking,
moving slowly about the room all the time,
while Celia sat still with her hands folded,
looking curiously grave and sweet :  Of
course Vincent went out to you, after he had
been talking to me. Yes, I know all about
it, Celia ; and I am only very, very sorry
that Vincent was not told from the first.
He said he ought to have been told, and he
was quite right. If he had known from the
beginning, this would not have come into
his head at all  people don't set their
hearts on impossibilities. I am very
sorry for the whole affair, and only glad
that  that it is impossible, in fact  for

VOL. I. 11

your uncle and I could never have consented.'


 No ; I told him so ; of course I am not
good enough,' murmured Celia with a slight
smile.

You told him this and that,' said Mrs.
Percival ; ' but, unfortunately, you did not
tell him the whole truth at once, which cost
me a trying scene this afternoon. As to
your not being good enough, my dear, there
is no occasion to say foolish things. You
know perfectly well what I mean. But why
did not you tell Vincent of your engagement,
yesterday ?'

I could not. I told him what ought to
have been quite enough.'

Was he reasonable this afternoon ? Not
too angry, I mean ?'

 * Not too angry,' Celia answered.  Weare
very good friends now.'

He has been rather spoilt sighed his
mother. ' You have spoilt him a little this
summer, Celia, like the rest of us.'

One couldn't help it.'

Xo, one couldn't help it. With all his
naughty ways and his temper, there is something
so splendid about Vincent. Still I am
afraid, Celia  don't you think you might
have been more careful ?'

I don't know, Aunt Flo. As you say,
one does not trouble much about things that

o

are impossible. How could I ever guess
that Vincent would take it into his head to
care for a beofSfar-ofirl like me ? I neither
nor wished it. I could not have
been stiff with him ; and you would not have
wished that. We have had a very jolly
summer,' she said, with something like a
sigh, ' and I don't think it is quite my fault
if it has ended in a thunderstorm.'

11  2

Mrs. Percival glanced at her niece across
the room. The Canon, as usual, had chosen
a wrong moment for paying Celia a compliment
on her brilliant looks. Celia was tired,
worn, and pale ; she had not recovered from
her bad night ; and the second scene with
Vincent had been a good deal more exciting
than the first. Mrs. Percival was capable
enough of blindness when she did not wish
to see ; but no one, knowing Celia intimately,
could look at her now without seeing
that she had gone through some straining
experience.

I am sorry, Celia,' Mrs. Percival began
in a low voice.

 Not for me, I suppose,' said the girl
lightly. ' Here is Paul'

At the same moment Paul came into the
room. Mrs. Percival was startled, for she
had not heard his step. Celia went forward

to meet him with her sweetest smile ; poured
out tea for him, asked him about his walk,
made him altogether perfectly welcome.

Paul's face was radiant in this sunshine,
of which he had not yet enjoyed much. This
was a very different thing from arriving all
alone, twenty-four hours before, with no Celia
to receive him. Mrs. Percival's liabilities
had been no compensation, and her charming
drawings-room had been a desert. Now it
was Eden once more ; and Paul drank his
tea in grateful peace. It did not occur to
him to find fault with the flavour.

Mrs. Percival walked out on the terrace
for a few minutes, leaving Celia and Paul
together. She was half conscious of being
a little angry with Celia, whose last words
to her, ' Xot for me, I suppose,' had in
them, somehow, something of the nature of
a slap.

All very fine : but had not Celia herself
confessed, long ago, that she was not in love
with Paul ? Of course she was not ; anyone
could see that. Paul would see it himself,
if he was not ignorant and blind.
Supposing that their worldly advantages
were equal, who could compare the two men,
Vincent and Paul ? One was a dear, nice,
clever boy ; the other, when he chose, was
a singularly attractive man. Of course, he
could not have married Celia ; and if he had
been rich, he would never have thought of
it. But Mrs. Percival felt in her heart that
Celia was very much to be pitied, and refused
to believe that Vincent's offer had roused no
regret in her at all.

It was the old story of sour grapes ; but
Celia was indeed foolish if she thought any
amount of clever acting would deceive her.
Mrs. Percival had not the smallest wish to

alter the course of things ; and perhaps she
knew in her heart that she was a goose ;
but that Celia should bring forward a touch
of pride, and pretend to be a little contemptuous,
instead of flattered, at her conquest
of Vincent  this was  most tolerable,
and not to be endured.' Neither could the
sincerity of such feelings be for one moment
believed in. Mrs. Percival carried with her,
from that time, a secret conviction of Celia's
deep disappointment ; and for this reason
she was not very much surprised at anything
that happened afterwards. In truth, one
must suppose she never really forgave Celia
for attracting her son, or for pretending not
to value the impossible prize that was offered
to her.

In the drawing-room, Paul was giving
Celia a history of his walk, the ancient
church, the modern sermon, his French

friend so strangely met, and the interesting
talk they had had together. It was impossible
to find fault with the way that Celia
listened, and her remarks were just what
they ought to be. It was not till long
afterwards that Paul realised how little he
or his doings had ever been to her. She
smiled with interest and amusement as she
looked at the Frenchman's card, which he
pulled out of his pocket.

But how magnificent !' she said. ' Really,
it was quite a romantic adventure. I hear
the Lefroys often have all sorts of foreigners
staying with them. Most people think
them dreadful. I am not sure that I don't,
Paul, if you will forgive me ; you know I
am a thorough Englishwoman.'

You wouldn't think my man dreadful,'
said Paul. ' I wish you could see him.
But there is something else I want to tell

you. As I came home just now, I saw an
illumination.'

Really ?' said Celia. ' Yes ; how delightful
!'

At that moment she was listening to
something beyond Paul, and she looked up
quickly at the window. She had heard a
step that snatched her thoughts away 
Vincent's step ; he had joined his mother on
the terrace, and they were now strolling up
and down together. It seemed as if Vincent
had forgiven his mother her sins against him,
considering the parting that was so very near.

It was a regular illumination,' Paul went
on ; her goodness made him so happy that
he did not notice the sudden distraction. ' I
wished you were there. I was coming down
the hill towards the bridge, you know 
trees in front, and then the river, and then
all Woolsborough on the other bank, stretched

along and sloping up in that pretty way it
does, with the Cathedral in the middle of it.
Everything perfectly clear, and all the houses
the deepest red. The sun was right behind
me, shining across, don't you see ! And the
west windows of the Cathedral and all the
houses along the river were lit up with a
perfect glory of light ; they shone gold,
dazzling, especially the Cathedral. I'll tell
you,' said Paul, a little oddly and wistfully,
for he was not fond of making his fancies
the property of others  ' it was just as if
angels were holding a festival inside the
Cathedral. It couldn't have been lit up so
gloriously for anything else.'

Then Paul came suddenly down to earth,
was seized with a sort of shame and shyness,
not caused, certainly, by Celia's gentle listening,
made a dash at the cake, and begged
her pardon for being so hungry.

 And are you very tired V she said, ' or
will you come to the Cathedral with me tonight
? Don't be led away by Dr. Chanter ;
I want you to take care of me.'

Then that was what the illumination
meant,' said Paul.

Celia laughed. She got up, and as she
walked away from the tea-table, lingered a
moment and laid her hand on his shoulder.
He was starting up, but Celia's fingers were
very strong, and seemed to keep him where
he was. The people on the terrace had
wandered away out of sight for the present.

Be still,' said Celia. ' I wanted to tell
you  Vincent knows. My aunt thought
she had better tell him.'

I'm awfully glad to hear it,' said Paul.
I hate a secret. Thank you ; that is good
news. And  I'm afraid he thinks you are
throwing yourself away  doesn't he, dear ?'

I don't exactly know what he said to
her,' answered Celia, with a dreamy smile.
He congratulated me. But he is rather
cross at not having been told before.'

I don't wonder at that, you know,' said
Paul ; and he got up in spite of the gentle
restraint, took her hand from his shoulder
and kissed it, and laid it back there again ashe
stood before her. ' Sometimes I can't
believe it,' he said. ' It is too wonderful to
be true, and I shall never deserve it, if I
live as long as Methuselah.'

Yes, you will,' she said, ' if you are as
good as you were to-day.'

 How was I good to-day ?'

In going away for all those hours, because
I asked you.'

Paul laughed.

Little you know what I would do for
you !' he said.

Even wear dead flowers, which is sentimental,
and a thing I hate,' said Celia ; and
she pulled the shrivelled carnation from his
button hole and threw it aside.

All this time she would hardly meet his
eyes, and anyone less dazzled than he was,
knowing' her as he did, would have been
aware of a restless, absent uneasiness of
manner, increasing every moment, as she
stood there with her young lover, and heard
a distant sound on the terrace  familiar
footsteps slowly approaching, a murmur of
voices in the gathering mists of sunset.

Almost immediately she left Paul and
walked quietly to the other end of the room,
to the farthest window, reaching it just asher
aunt and cousin came u]) to it from the
outside. Mrs. Percival was very pale ; her
eyes looked odd, as if she had been crying.
Vincent was now perfectly calm and quiet ;

it seemed as if he had resigned himself to
the inevitable. He hardly looked at Celia,
but walked down the room towards the door,
passing close to Paul by the way.

I hear you are in great luck,' he said to
Paul, stopping for a moment.

Thanks ; yes,' said Paul.

I congratulate you,' said Vincent.

Paul thanked him again, and he went
straight out of the room.

Paul thought once more that Vincent was
the most disagreeable man he had ever met.

But he forgot all drawbacks and annoyances
that night in the Cathedral. The dim
soft liofht, the dream arches, the mysterious
world of shadows, those high spaces into
which organ and voices seemed to float away",
losing themselves, the high and holy gentleness
of all the service, which seemed to make
no demand on souls and ears, except peace

to receive what care so peacefully ; the
great congregation  for all respectable Wools
borough flocked to its Cathedral in the evening.
There came a time when Paul ceased
to find much reality or devotion in these
services ; but at present he was young and
ha23py, and able to live on dreams. He and
Celia were alone together, to all intents and
purposes ; and somehow it seemed to Paul
that she no longer objected to be seen alone
with him. It was a comfort that Vincent
knew : soon everybody would know ; and
then it would not be long before life changed
into something almost too beautiful to think
about. Behaviour in church was not exactly
Celia's strong point ; but that evening Paul
thought he had never seen anything so lovely
and heavenly as the abstraction of her face.
She sat looking a little upward all through
the sermon ; not at the preacher, but away

through the great shining screen into the
half-hoisted solemnity of the choir. She
might have been looking straight into Paradise,
with that sweet, pure, thoughtful, unconscious
exaltation of gaze and expression.
It was something new to Paul ; he had never
seen her look like that before.

How beautiful she is !' he thought over
and over again.

His thoughts of her went on mingling
with the sermon, to which he could not help
listening. The preacher was a young man,
who had lately been made Vicar of a large
town parish in the diocese, and was already
known all over England for his life and his
words, which matched each other to an
unusual degree. His eloquence had a special
effect on young men, who crowded to hear
him everywhere ; in his own town they
would leave their shops and offices in the

middle of the day, and come to his church
to hear a short address. That night at
Woolsborough he was preaching about
martyrdom ; and as he talked on, almost
everyone in the Cathedral became aware
that in his or her own nature there was
something, a power of some kind, which
under certain circumstances might rule
supreme. Then there would be a discovery
that love meant sacrifice ; and to those who
knew what love was, martyrdom would follow
naturally.

The listeners listened, Paul among them :
all, no doubt, had their different thoughts.
He thought what a poor thing his own love
was, as far as he knew it ; and yet he
thought he could die for Celia. But the
preacher carried him on to higher worlds ;
and for a few moments he even forgot Celia.

They lingered afterwards, to listen to Dr.

VOL. I. 12

Chanter's playing, and when they came out
of the great porch into the starlight, the
streams of people had nearly passed away.

Celia,' Paul said, as they crossed the
Close, * it was an illumination, and at least
there was one angel there. You looked like
one.'

Don't,' she said quickly. ' I hate you
to talk like that. An angel ! In a year
you will think me a fiend.'

HOLM.

One morning, ten days later, Celia Darrell
was standing at her window in Holm Lodge,
looking out westward. Half the view was
still veiled by the mists of the autumn morning
; but the sun was slowly winning his
way, laying long gold rays across the fields,
touching the groups of great beeches, and
the oaks that were just taking a tint of
brown on their greenness, adding colour to
the varying autumn colours, and making a
world of lovely light and shadow, except on
the southward slope of the hill, where the

12 2

sable, silent, solemn forest ' lay a dark mass,
and seemed impenetrable even by sunshine.
Among the trees, a mile or two away, the
light had just touched the white spire of
Holm Church ; beyond it more woods and
rich green slopes, and then the mist that hid
the distant hills.

Celia stood and looked out at this view
with a faint, lazy smile. Most of the land
she could see belonged to Paul Romaine, and
would very soon belong to her ; he wanted
the marriage to come off as soon as possible,
and she, as she smilingly told her aunt, saw
no reason for any delay. The tiresome business
about Vincent had seven her a certain
dislike to Woolsborough, and also to any
continued dependence on her aunt, who, in
her opinion, had not been entirely nice about
that. The prospect of a good fortune and
perfect liberty was very agreeable ; and Paul,

the necessary drawback to these things, was
not nearly so bad as such an appendage might
have been. Celia considered the case of a
friend of hers who had married, for the same
reasons, a vulgar cotton-spinner of fifty. Of
course she ruled him, but she was ashamed
(jf him ; his ignorances were terrible. Now
Paul might be odd ; he might pass as a muff,
even, among Celia's sort of men ; but he was
young, good-looking, and a gentleman. This
was a nicer sort of thing to rule than the
other. Celia was quite satisfied. She was
also proud of her own good sense, and by
this time had laughed herself out of any
lingering trouble about Vincent, though she
often caught herself thinking of him. One
cannot have everything in this world, she
thought very justly ; some advantages must
be given up for the sake of others. A little
more of Vincent would have been dangerous,

it was true : she was beofinnino- to understand
what love might be  a thing to upset all
calculations. But he was gone ; that painful
little excitement had passed away, and,
just as he had prophesied, she had laughed
and played tennis all the week with other
people.

Now she had come with her uncle and
aunt to Holm ; and Paul was at Red Towers.
He had travelled with them, and they had
all arrived late last night. It was amusing
to come back to the same country she had
visited last autumn, and to look at it with
such different eyes. Then, she had been
rather tired and bored with everything,
though she did not show it much ; now, she
was quite prepared to be pleased. She
remembered Colonel Ward rather vaguely,
as an old bore ; he was Paul's best friend,
and must be cultivated ; especially as her

aunt said he was rich, and might leave Paul
his money. Paul's house, too, was now a
matter of critical interest.

Celia presently went downstairs, in a
cheerful, practical state of mind, and found
her uncle, the Canon, enjoying his village
on the stone steps in front of the
little house, wearing a straw hat and reading
a novel. Below lay the tennis ground in
dewy shadow ; below that, the brilliant and
varied colour of a hedge of dahlias ; then a
sort of little glen, all grass and oak trees ;
and then the great wood. Altogether it was
a peaceful and pleasant retreat. Celia wished
her uncle good-morning, and stood beside him
on the steps ; he looked up from his book
benevolently.

Well, Celia !' he said, ' are you thinking,
I am monarch of all I survey "? We
quite acknowledge it, your aunt and I 

only don't turn us out of our house. Holm
will have new charms when you are settled
here.'

Then I hope you mean to be here more
than once a year,' said Celia, smiling. ' I
have no taste for solitude. I shall want you
dreadfully.'

Don't let Paul hear that,' said the Canon.
He wants nobody but you.'

Paul is very young,' said Celia.

 Just the same age, are you not ?'

That means nothing.'

By-the-bye, is he coming to breakfast ?'

No. Colonel Ward wanted him. He is
coming here afterwards.'

Rather ill-advised of the worthy Colonel.
Very funny, Paul's affection for that old
fellow,' said Canon Percival thoughtfully. ' I
was quite uneasy, at one time : I thought
he would turn Paul into as great an oddity

as himself. I assure you, Celia, if Colonel
Ward had had his way, Paul would have
spent his whole time at Red Towers, loitering
about with him and his dogs. Wouldn't
even have sone to college. Most absurd,
and very wrong ; quite contrary to his father's
wishes. Well, you know, the Colonel doesn't
like me, simply because I set my face against
all this nonsense of keeping the boy shut up,
away from other young men. It was my
duty, as Paul's guardian. Of course, I had
no more power than Colonel Ward ; but I
had your aunt on my side. That was a great
thing.'

Aunt Flo can do anything with the old
Colonel, can't she ?'

So she thinks. I don't know ; I hope
so  for if he can give us any trouble, you
may be sure that he will. I suspect he does
not approve of Paul's marriage. I wrote

him a long letter about it the other day. I
thought it was the proper thing to do. He
has not vouchsafed me an answer.'

But Paul is his own master now suggested
Celia.

Yes, yes, very true. But the Colonel can
make himself troublesome. He has been
mixed up so much, do you see, with the
management of the property.'

Oh, I don't think he will do much harm.
Now breakfast is ready. Here are Aunt Flo
and Toto coins to call us.'

Paul had been ha\'ino- his breakfast with
Colonel Ward in the dark low dining-room
at the Cottage, where the dogs sat all round
and waited for their turn. The Colonel's
household arrangements were of the simplest
kind ; they were not unlike those of Dr.
Riccabocca, only, if possible, simpler still, the
only servant who lived in the house with

him being a straight and correct young
man named Bartholomew, commonly called
Barty, who had been a soldier, and might
have been a Frenchman, from his genius as
cook, valet, housemaid, and gardener. Not
that these talents where in requisition everyday.
An old woman who lived on the common
ugly, clever, and respectable  was nominally
Colonel Ward's housekeeper, and spent
most of her time at the Cottage.

Nothing could be plainer than the little
old-fashioned rooms, with their well-worn
furniture, where the six dogs lay in a row on
the hearth in winter, and in their favourite
corners in summer. They were all one
family ; the Colonel's breed of Slumber
spaniels was well known in that part of the
world.

The uninitiated were wont to see nothing
at first but a heap of white, curly, satiny

backs and legs, more or less varied with
golden brown, half a dozen white faces, more
or less mild, affectionate, melancholy, with
drooping ears, long and fringed, and eyes,
light golden brown, so touching in their
wistful gaze that they might have melted
the stoniest heart. This collective impression
was all nonsense, and nothing enraged
Colonel Ward so much as to hear it put into
words.

They were very happy dogs, and their
characters were just as varied as those of a
family of children. Besides, they were by
no means equal in beauty, or in the appearance
of good breeding, though all equally
well-bred. Dick and Di, the father and
mother of the flock, were the perfection of
Clumber beauty, carrying the ' shilling mark '
on their heads which stamps the breed.
Two of the puppies  Jack and Jess  also

bore this distinction ; but Punch and Judy
AN'ere unfortunately and unaccountably without
it.

The Colonel was ashamed of them, and
so was Barty ; but Mrs. Perks, the housekeeper,
gave it as her opinion that they were
much happier without it. Certain it is that
they were the most cheerful of the party, and
full of careless impertinence, leaving dignity
to their father and mother, and melancholy
to their more distinguished brother and
sister, who, especially Jess, were of all
young dogs the saddest. ' Noblesse oblige,'
these dogs seemed keenly to feel ; they never
did anything wrong, and their greatness
weighed upon them. But the flower of the
family was no doubt Di ; she had in consequence
the best of everything, and none of
her companions dreamed of being jealous, or
of disputing her pre-eminence. The other

dogs were sometimes left at home, or shut
up out of the way. Di was her master's
dearest friend ; she slept in his room, and
he was never seen without her. The thick
white satin of her coat, with its stiff curl,
was perfection ; her marks were the right
shade of brown ; her eyes with their golden-tinted
depths were full of soul and tenderness.
Dick was very handsome too, but he
was a heavy, uninteresting dog compared
with Di. He knew this, no doubt ; he
admired her loyally, like a gentleman, and
did not resent their master's favouritism, but
contented himself with violently snubbing
the pretentious Punch, and generally setting
a dignified example to the puppies.

Paul and the Colonel and this family had
breakfast very comfortably together, Paul's
little Scamp having been left at home ; the
Clumbers were ready to play with him out-of-doors,

but did not care for his company
in their own dining-room, where each had its
own place, Di perched on a footstool at her
master's right hand. Di had a charmingly
high-bred way of pretending not to be hungry,
and playing with her food : the puppies never
could imitate this, and Dick only tried to
seem indifferent, betraying his anxiety in his
eyes. Punch and Judy sometimes had to be
turned out of the room ; then Di tossed her
head scornfully, and played more than ever.

Colonel Ward was not very cheerful that
morning ; he was silent and dull. Without
the delightful behaviour of the dogs, and
the serene intensity of happiness which
shone in the face of Paul, the meal would
have been a dismal one.

The Colonel's mind, in fact, was divided
against itself He wanted to rejoice with
his friends  he was a solitary man, and had

few other friends  but he could not yet be
reconciled to Paul's marrying Miss Darrell.
Besides, there was the danger of inconsistency,
for he remembered all that he had said to
Paul on the subject, and supposed Paul must
remember it too, perhaps resent it ; in this
he was mistaken. Altogether, he was not
comfortable in his mind, and rather avoided
the subject till breakfast was nearly over.
He had quite meant to have a very serious
and interesting talk with Paul, and had
asked him to breakfast with this in view ;
but Paul gave signs of being too frivolously
happy for any sort of business conversation.

The poor Colonel felt out of tune with
his surroundings. At last he began :

 I suppose your engagement is no longer
a secret ?'

 You are right,' the young man answered.
Everybody may know now.'

Percival thought it necessary to write
me a grand letter about it the other day,'
said the Colonel. As he spoke, he threw
Di a scrap of toast, and smiled at her frolics
in receiving it.

Small yelps of impatience came from
Punch and Judy, and the other puppies
beat the floor with their tails. Dick alone
lay motionless, looking at his master, with
feelings too deep for expression.

After a pause the Colonel went on :

I didn't answer his letter.'

Why not ?' said Paul.

What was I to say ? He told me nothing
that I did not know before. His own gratification
and Mrs. Percival's  was there any
need for describing that ? He wanted me
to write a history about mine  rather too
much to expect, as any other man would
have felt. However, it is Percival all over

VOL. I. 13

ignoring any view but his own. Can't
turn into a humbug, Paul, even to please
you, or Mrs. Percival either.'

 We don't want you to do that,' said
Paul.  I dare say Canon Percival's letter
did not want an answer. He never said
anything to me about it. It doesn't matter ;
you will be civil to them now.'

 I suppose I must. Not ask them here ?
I can't do that. Neither Mrs. Percival
nor Miss Darrell would care to come to tea
in a kennel, for instance,' said the Colonel,
looking sharply round at his dog-family.

You had better ask them, and hear what
they say,' said Paul.  They are very fond
of dogs.'

He felt quietly convinced that the dear
old Colonel was dying to make himself as
agreeable as possible to the ladies, who
certainly were quite ready to be friendly

with him. His holding aloof was the one
thing that troubled Paul at this time, and
he was sure that the prejudice would only
be conquered by further acquaintance with
Celia. He thought that the whole thing
was to be traced to the Colonel's dislike of
Canon Percival, a very old story. He
could not dislike Celia herself; that idea
was so ridiculous as to be impossible : and
lier want of fortune could never be a real
objection to so unworldly a mind as the
Colonel's.

Mrs. Percival was his old love, the object
of his deepest admiration ; he therefore
certainly had no right to be surprised if her
niece proved as attractive as herself

What are you going to do this morning V
asked Colonel Ward, still rather grumpily.

I am going to fetch Mrs. Percival and
Miss Darrell, and we are going all over the

132

house, and so on, to see what alterations will
be wanted.'
Alterations !'

Now, Colonel, if you were going to
be married, you would want alterations
here.'

And my landlord would object, I dare say.
Well, Paul, a guardian is a more important
person than a landlord. One has only his
own property to think about ; the other has
somebody else's. And that's a serious affair,
when the somebody is a foolish young fellow
in love.'

Come along, then, and give us your
advice,' said Paul. ' Come with me now,
or meet us at the house.'

No, my lad ; I'll do neither one thing
nor the other. You are of age ; you must
manage your own affairs.'

Oh yes, you must come,' said Paul.

You know the house better than anybody.
I shall tell them you are coming.'

 No, I'm not coming,' the Colonel said.

He went out with Paul to the gate, and
watched him as he rushed off along the
sandy road towards Holm Lodge. The sun
was shining on its red chimneys, from which
faint blue wreaths of smoke were stealing ;
up here on the high ground the air was clear
and fresh, though a morning mist still
lingered in the valleys ; the hills lay blue
and purple against the paler sky. Down on
the left lay the beautiful varied woods that
surrounded Red Towers, changing gradually
into the pine woods below Holm Lodge ; to
the right, the common, with its yellow dress
of faded bracken, was bounded by larger and
older pine woods still. All the air was full
of their scent, and there was perfect stillness
everywhere. If the wild estate of Red

Towers had especially prepared itself to receive
its new mistress, it could not have
done so to more advantage.

Colonel Ward stood and watched the
slight figure of the young squire, striding
off in happy haste to meet his love, the
only living thing to be seen in the bright
lonely landscape. Till the young man had
disappeared round the turn of the road,
his old friend stood looking. Then he said
aloud, ' It's all nonsense. The girl can't be
good enough for him ;' and smote hard two
or three times with his stick on the stones
at the gate. This was the dogs' signal ;
they came rushing out of the house in a
body, and their master started off at once
for a walk with them, up the hill, under the
wild banks, where one or two great rugged
firs overhung the road, past the deeply-shaded
gate of Red Towers, up the road

beyond, which ran brown and damp through
the very middle of the dark tall wood, on
its way to higher hills and wilder commons,
and great shining views stretching away to
the sea.

NEW CONQUESTS.

Celia Darrell and her aunt Mrs. Percival
were people to whom is applied that ill-used
word ' artistic' They understood the happy
union of art and fashion in furniture, and
could talk the jargon of all this, though their
views were not, for various reasons, carried
out very logically at River Gate. Paul
Romaine's quaint old house was a delightfully
suggestive field for them. He had
been quite right in his idea of doing up the
house ; not one room could be left as it was ;
but fortunately he was sincere and eager in

his wish to spend any amount of money on
it, to make it really pretty for CeHa. She
and her aunt spent two hours that morning
very pleasantly in wandering through
the rooms  the shady, quiet, brown old
rooms  planning new furniture and new
decorations, with Paul in attendance, obedient
to Celia's every look, and smile, and
word. He had not much opinion of his own
on these subjects, and was quite sure that
from Celia's taste there could be no appeal.
With anyone else he would have had something
to say on the fitness of things, and
would instinctively have scoffed at the notion
of furnishing his old country house in the
modern ' high art ' style of a suburban villa.
For Paul's taste was naturally excellent, and
he inherited from his mother, who had lived
at Red Towers, a kind of cultivation very
superior to that of the women who were now

pulling her arrangements to pieces. But the
quiet daylight of Paul's natural mind was at
present lost in the dazzling radiance of Celia.
She must have her own way ; he must follow
her, as she followed the fashion. Only, like
another young hero we have read of, ' he
would have real marble in place of stucco,
and, if he might, perhaps solid gold for gilding
:' that is, the modern equivalent of these
things ; ebony, for instance, instead of
agonized wood, though Mrs. Percival sweetly
told him that he would ruin himself She
and Celia wandered from room to room,
imagining, suggesting, trying effects, while a
soft sun streamed in at the tall old windows,
and all the pictures listened sadly. Sabin,
also, who came smiling in to move some
furniture, went back to his wife with doubtful
shakes of the head. Paul, devoted as he
was, found it a relief, when Mrs. Percival

had made notes enough to content her as a
beginning, and when he began to see a
chance of taking Celia away into the garden
and the woods, her aunt showing signs of
being considerately tired. In the garden the
noble old cedars could hardly be expected to
give up their place to any trees of more
perfect form, or more satisfying colour, or
anyhow of a higher order in creation. Here
there was no terra-cotta, except ancient red
bricks with the extra baking and decorating
of time ; no peacock blue, except what
flashed and shimmered in the peacock's tail
as he strayed across a sunny distance of lawn.
Mrs. Percival sat down in the study, and
sent for Mrs. Sabin to talk to her, with an
idea of further independent excursions by-and-by.
From the study window she could
see the two young people going slowly away
from the house in the shade of the cedars.

They were a very nice-looking couple, certainly
: no doubt it would be all right, thought
Mrs. Percival.

Celia was just the girl to appreciate at
their fullest value all the good things of this
life ; she loved everything that was pretty ;
there was no doubt that her house would be
charming, and that she would keep it so ;
only  would she ever be dull ? And then,
what would she do, and what would Paul
do ? For their characters had not the harmony
of their looks ; Mrs. Percival knew
this well, and it made her secretly uneasy
now and then.

The Vincent affair remained on her mind
unpleasantly, too ; it had seemed to bring
out a certain heartlessness in Celia, or, at
least, a pretence at heartlessness, for Mrs.
Percival was very sure that she was more
troubled than she chose to show. But, to

all appearance, nothing could have been
more perfect than her content with Paul
and the future, ever since Vincent went
away.

It was a lovely old garden. Near the
house it had a certain stiffness of long walks
with stone steps, clipped yews, and a fishpond.
All about the lawn, which sloped
down to this, were long flower-beds, which
the bad taste of the old gardener, the ignorance
of Colonel Ward, and the carelessness
of the Squire, had caused to be arranged in
dazzling bands of red, yellow, and blue.

In the early summer there were plenty of
old-fashioned roses, but they were nearly all
gone now. Below the pond and the yew-hedges,
a gate led straight into the deep
mazes of the wood.

Paul was full of happy excitement as he
took Celia all about the garden, and showed

her what he thought the prettiest corners.
It was the first time that they had been here
alone together : of course she had seen it all
last autumn, but that, to Paul, was a former
state of existence, and a very poor, and cold,
and dull one. To be sure, he was in love
with her then ; so far that he was never
happy or at rest for a moment, unless Miss
Darrell in her black dress, pale, sometimes
a little thoughtful, but generally smiling and
degree, was somewhere within sight. But
then he had hardly dared to dream of her
ever really belonging to him ; or, rather 
for Paul's instincts were generous, even when
he was in love  of his belonging to her :
himself, and all that he had in the world,
given to her service for ever.

Since then he had learnt a great many
things ; at least he thought so : like other
such trustful natures, having no idea of the

depth of his own ignorance, or of all that Celia
was yet to teach him. At present she had
taught him nothing, being herself practical,
liard, and happy, not even knowing, as she
had truthfully told her aunt, what love was,
till Vincent, the other days, brought her the
first beginning of that terrible knowledge.

Celia laughed at Paul, very sweetly, for
this evident delight in getting away into the
garden.

Yes,' she said, ' you have got away from
Aunt Flo, and paint and paper and all that,
but you haven't got away from me. I am
just as tiresome as she is. You think the
garden perfect, poor dear, as well as the
house, and I shall be quite horrid if I tell
you that those geraniums and cancellaria are
utterly ghastly

Are they ? Yes, I suppose they are,'
said Paul a little absently.

 Yes, loathsome said Celia, looking up
with her most charming smile. ' Not quite
so loathsome as a stuffy room crammed with
books, like your dear study, where we left-poor
Aunt Flo just now. I saw her eyes
wandering over the bookcase, Paul, with
feelings like my own. That would make
such a jolly little morning-room, done with
terra-cotta and black, and with shelves
running all round for china.'

And some draperies, and Japanese screens,
and yellow drain-pipes with bulrushes sticking
out of them,' said Paul, smiling faintly,
as he stood by the gate and gazed down into
the glowing depth of the wood.

Celia looked at him, smiling her sweetest,
her eyes intensely blue.

You are getting on very nicely,' she said.
I shall be quite proud of you in time.'

He looked round at her with an expression

that was rather new to him, and made her
feel a little grave in spite of herself

Do you really want the study V he said.
Then you shall have it, and do what you
like with it. You ought to know already
that the whole thing is yours to do what you
like with.'

She answered him with a sudden earnestness
almost equal to his own.

Don't make me worse than I am, Paul.
You ought to see when I mean things and
when I don't. Don't you know that I can
be perfectly happy in the dear old house as
it is, without anything being done to it at
all ? I can indeed, and I will, if it makes
you the least unhappy. As to the
study, I wouldn't have it touched for
worlds.'

It was a very quiet, shady corner down
there by the gate into the wood ; and Celia

VOL. I. 14

let Paul thank her in his own way. Presently
she said to him softly :

Do you know that you are spoiling me ?
and that I am not half good enough for you
in any way. No ; listen. I was not brought
up as nicely as some girls, and I've got
nothing ; and you ought to marry a different
sort of girl, you know. And you are doing
all this for me just as if I was a grand young
woman and a very good match. And really
you ought not to give in to me in the way
you do  it is more terribly spoiling than I
can tell you. I thought so in the house just
now. It is so sweet of you ; but it isn't at
all a good thing. Paul, I sometimes feel so
sure that you won't be happy with me.'

 What makes you talk like this ? What
utter nonsense !' murmured Paul in his
happiness.

I don't know,' she said. * You are so

good  it makes one feel that you ought to
know the truth, I suppose. You ought to
know that you are making a mistake  won't
you believe it V

 No he said quietly.  I happen to know
better.'

When Celia thought of the little scene
afterwards she was startled at herself It
seemed to show that the strongest nature
might lose its balance and be affected by
foolish outside things  even by such a very
foolish thing as the generous, devoted love
of a boy. For though Paul was much taller
than herself, and in truth much cleverer
and much wiser, she could never think of
him as anything but a boy. But the simple
nobleness of his love for her seemed to raise
up something in her nature that had not
been there before  some generosity to meet
his, some painful consciousness of all that he

14  2

was giving for such a poor return. At that
moment, in a way, she certainly Hked Paul
better than she had ever liked him before ;
and yet his touch became unbearable  a sort
of fear, born of her own falseness, made her
eyes droop before his, and in this first stroll
with him round the garden at Red Towers,
she was very near obeying some angel's
voice  such as can sometimes speak even
to Celia  and breaking off her engagement
altogether.

Not into the wood now, please,' she said,
as Paul was opening the gate. ' I thought
you were going to show me the stables.'

Well, you know, the stables are a serious
subject,' he said rather shyly. ' They are
very much worse than the house, I must tell
you, and I'm not sure that they won't want
rebuilding altogether. There's nothing there
but the pony, and Ford keeps it all as tidy

as he can ; but Colonel Ward thinks there's
something wrong in the construction, which
I don't understand. If you would let him
show you, and explain it all  but of course
you would understand, because you know
about horses, and I don't, you see.'

Why didn't Colonel Ward teach you ?'
I don't know. I suppose I was too stupid
to learn. It doesn't matter,' said Paul. ' You
will have to manage all that, if you don't
mind.'

That will be beyond me,' said Celia,
though her eyes shone at the prospect. ' I
can ride and drive, certainly ; but I can't
quite take the situation of coachman, sir. I
believe I could choose a horse  at any rate,
for such a trusting master as you ; but I'm
afraid of your Colonel, do you know. He
isn't as nice as you. He doesn't like
me.'

The dear old boy hardly knows you,' said
Paul. ' If you choose him to like you, of
course he will

Have I such a strong will as that, do you
think V

I don't know. I think you can do anything
you like. Perhaps it is not will
exactly.'

I have been told I could do it by electricity,'
said Celia ; she had quite recovered
herself now, and they were walking round
into the stable-yard. She smiled as she
spoke, and remembered who it was who had
talked to her about her magnetic powers.
He knew something about them, perhaps 
but not poor Paul.

Well, I will try to do something very
hard,' she said, still smiling. ' I will try to
make Colonel Ward like me better than he
likes you.'

All right. You'll succeed, no doubt ; and
I shall be awfully glad if you do.'

If I take away your only friend, Paul V

You won't do that,' he said.

How do you know ? Somebody once told
me I was a witch, and witches are always
doing mischief of that kind. Suppose I
was really a nasty, malicious witch, and
tried to make you and the Colonel hate each
other.'

I don't think you could do that,' said
Paul rather thoughtfully.

So there is a limit to my power, is
there V

You couldn't do what you couldn't.'

What lanofuaofe for a man who has
taken a degree like yours ! I understand
you though  thank you, Paul. You don't
believe I have it in me to do anything really
vicious.'

He laughed. ' Make the Colonel like you
as much as you please,' he said, pushing open
the old yard door.

Whatever faults there may have been in
the stable-yard at Red Towers, it was charming
to look at ; it was almost the prettiest
part of the old precincts of the place. The
old buildings, with their red, time-worn
gables, and beetling eaves, and turrets,
round which pigeons were flying, looked
down with a grand air on the broad grass-grown
court below.

Two or three great overhanging chestnut
trees, their stems hidden behind walls, their
large leaves touched with yellow, laid deep
shadow across half the yard, where an old
retriever lay asleep by his kennel. It all
looked unused, lonely, yet not neglected ;
ivy and Virginia creeper had their way
there, as everywhere else about the place,

wreathing the long old stable-roof in lovely
confusion. Doors stood open into silent darkness,
except in another small stable, where
the one fat pony of the establishment lived
at his ease.

A smart little dog-cart was pulled out of
the coach-house, where three or four old-fashioned
carriages reposed in shadow, and a
clinking sound came from the saddle-room,
where Ford was cleaning harness.

Moss on the roofs, grass between the
stones, chickens wandering in and out of
those open useless doors  altogether it was
evidently a yard belonging to a master who
found none of his happiness in horses.

Ford looked out of his door with as much
interest and excitement as his steady old
mind was capable of, and no little anxiety
too. The news of the Squire's engagement
had only just reached his servants, and they

were of course very glad, not having had
time to fear the loss of their situations.
Old servants do not at once realize that an
old place can get on without them. At the
same time, Miss Darrell brought with her a
character rather alarming to people in Ford's
line. Everyone knew who and what her
father had been ; with all his faults, about
the best judge of a horse to be found in
England. He was an authority on all. racing
matters ; his stud-farm was famous ; his stud-groom
a hero of his kind ; he had won many
races, and his stable arrangements were the
admiration of all those who understood these
things. He himself was a daring rider, and
had been a very popular man, with something,
for some people, of his daughter s
charm. Poor Tom Darrell ! he was dead ;
and before he died he had gone to the dogs
very completely. His old friends did not

talk about him much ; but his name was
likely to Anger long in the mouths of grooms
and jockeys, for he was a master in their
craft. Colonel Ward used to allow Ford to
talk about him, and to quote him as an
authority, for Ford had visited his stables in
days gone by ; but the Colonel always ended
by making him a text for moral reflections,
not much needed by Ford, the steadiest of
the steady, but taken with respect from a
man who, in his quiet way, knew as much
about horses as Captain Darrell himself.

Of course. Ford despised Mr. Romaine
nearly as much as he loved him, and was
often heard to complain of being utterly
thrown away in his service. Sir Paul had
been a splendid master, and it was only for
his sake, and to keep up the credit of Red
Towers as far as possible, that Ford had
persuaded himself to stay on. The Colonel,

to be sure, was some comfort ; but the poor
dear vourq gentleman was enough to break
one's heart. When Ford first heard that
his master was going to marry Captain
Darrell's daughter, he looked very grave,
and asked Colonel Ward's man if the young
lady knew that the Squire couldn't so much
as saddle a horse, much less ride one, much
less tell a thoroughbred when he saw him ;
that he would not drive the old pony if he
could help it, and if he did, was sure to run
into the gate-post. At first. Ford could not
at all swallow the incongruity of such a
marriage ; but presently, by converse with
the more brilliant Bart, he beo-an to see
that it might be a blessing, and a way for
Red Towers to regain its character, and for
himself to rise in the estimation of all who
knew him. The more he thought of it, the
more lie was inclined to respect his new

mistress, and he looked out with painful
anxiety, when the Squire brought her into
the yard that morning, to see what impression
those empty stalls would make on a
mind so full of knowledge.

Then Mr. Romaine called him out of the
saddle-room.

Look here. Ford ; I want you to show
Miss Darrell the stables. I dare say she
will ask some questions, and you can answer
them better than I can.'

Yes, sir,' said Ford. He glanced at
Miss Darrell with deep approval ; her appearance
was what he called neat, and impressed
him very favourably.

Stood there smiling,' he told Barty
afterwards, ' and as if she'd stand no nonsense.
Just the look I've seen on the
Captain's face, when things in general was
going right, and new plans was coming into

his head. Just those same beautiful blue
eyes, too. That young lady will have her
own way, mind you, and with other things
as well as horses, mark my words ! Master
Paul,' said Ford with a tinge of sadness,
he ain't no match for her, bless you ! But
I expect he's sharp enough to know it.'

 Beg your pardon, sir,' said Ford, touching
his cap a second or third time to Celia,
 there ain't much to see in empty stables.
I do my best, as the Colonel knows ; but
there ain't any pride or satisfaction in it.'

 The stables won't be empty long,' said
his master. ' Show Miss Darrell where the
horses are to be. We shall see whether she
agrees with the Colonel that the whole
thing must be pulled down.'

I don't see the necessity myself, miss,'
said Ford.  The Colonel's very particular ;
but Sir Paul was satisfied, and our horses

was some of the best in the county, just as
they will be again. But you'll knows best,
miss, if you'll please to look round.'

Thank you, Ford,' said Celia, very
graciously.  I am sure you knows all about
it. What a pretty little cart you have got
there !'

 Latest improvement in the shaft, miss ;
but it ain't new to you, I expect.'

Paul stood by smiling with amusement,
while Ford, quite carried out of his usual
solemnity, conducted Celia round his premises,
asking her opinion at every step. She
checked him a little, laughing and turning
away, when he began to wonder how many
horses he had better look out for ; what new
carriages would be wanted ; what helpers
had better be engaged.

Quite right. Ford ; you shall know all
about it in a day or two,' said Paul.  I

shall talk it over with the Colonel. Only,
whatever you do, don't fetch me out to look
at horses.'

No, sir,' said Ford, grinning from ear to
ear. ' But perhaps Miss Darrell will be
pleased to give her opinion.'

I hope she will. One day last year we
thought we wanted a horse,' said Paul to
Celia, ' and a man brought one here to be
looked at. The Colonel happened to be away,
and Ford sent for me. I don't think he will
ever do it again. I suppose I had some
idea of not being a disgrace to him, so I
began making remarks on this animal. And
the result was not satisfactory ; was it.
Ford ?'

No, sir. Yes, miss,' said Ford, turning
confidentially to his new friend. ' I was
uncommon glad when my master said he
didn't like the beast, and walked off. The

fellow that brought him here knew what I
thought of him. I didn't fancy him either ;
but my reasons was different.'

What were your reasons, Ford V asked
Celia. ' I dare say I should have agreed
with you.'

No manner of doubt you would, miss.
But I'll say no more, if you please, though
it's safe enough, as names hasn't been
mentioned,' said Ford, with the caution of
his craft.

While they stood talking there in the
shade of the chestnuts, Ford wondering more
and more how such a beautiful and clever
young lady came to fancy his master  a
master with such defects, and not even the
grace to be ashamed of them  a great
patter outside the large gates announced
a party of some kind. They flew open,
and Colonel Ward came in, his six doors

VOL. I. 15

rushing: before him, and tear ins: round the
yard.

All but Di : she trotted straight to Celia
Darrell, where she stood by Paul, looked
imploringly up in her face for a moment,
and then lay down at her feet. Dogs will
sometimes do these unaccountable and unreasonable
things. Di, when she did them,
was irresistible ; and Celia, apparently, found
her so. She knelt suddenly down on the
ground for a moment, put her arm round the
dog's neck, and kissed the white curly head ;
then rising up instantly, with a faint flush
and her prettiest smile, she went forward to
shake hands with Di's master. Paul's first
look, as he stood bv and saw this little
demonstration, was one of horror. Mrs.
Percival was always kissing her little dogs ;
]:)ut Celia never kissed them, and Paul had
often rejoiced thankfully that she did not.

Dogs always obeyed her, and she treated
them with a sort of cool kindness. Di, as
far as Paul knew, was the first dog who had
ever laid claim to an outward sign of her
love, and received it ; but even Di was not
good enough to be kissed by Celia. Paul
was sensitive and fanciful about these things
a muff, we must repeat  and he felt that
kiss like a degradation. But then he looked
at his old friend the Colonel, and he saw that
the stern grey face was full of smiles and
softness ; evidently  had Celia divined it ?
the way to his heart was through the
hearts of his dogs.

Di will be a proud dog for ever, Miss
Darrell,' the Colonel was saying.

His hat was off; he bent his cropped
grey head very low over Celia's hand,
almost touching it with his moustache. A
courtly old Frenchman could not have paid

15  2

homage more gracefully to the future mistress
of Red Towers.

They are such beautiful dogs murmured
Celia, half laughing ;  and that one is a
perfect darling.'

I am delighted that you admire them.
May I say  Paul is a fortunate fellow. I
meant to do myself the honour of calling on

Mrs. Percival and you this afternoon '

She is here now ; she is in the house,'
said Celia. ' Shall we go to her ?'

 We have been making all sorts of plans,'
said Paul. ' I wish you had come a little
sooner, Colonel. We have been overhauling
the stables and coach-house.'

Then you certainly did want me. Never
mind ; we must do it again. Come here,
dogs. Miss Darrell, will you accept one of
these dogs ? Dick and Di won't leave their
old master '

Are you so sure about Di, Colonel ?' said
Paul, rather mischievously. ' She seemed
inclined to give herself away, just now.'

Di is perfectly lovely, and so nice to
stroke,' said Celia softly, laying her hand on
the dog's head. ' But they are all delightful,'
as she stood in the middle of the white,
curly crowd  everybody forgetting, as perhaps
she did herself, that she had laughed
last year at the Colonel's flock of woolly
lambs. ' But if you really mean it, Colonel
Ward, and if I may choose  come here, you
pretty shy thing ; what is your name ?'

He is Jack,' said the Colonel, ' or whatever
you like to call your dog. Well, yes,
he is a good dog ; he has the shilling mark,
you see ; he's all right. He's rather a
dismal, low-spirited fellow ; that's the worst
of him.'

He wants petting, that's all,' said Celia,

who had now taken Jack's head between her
hands, and was looking into his mournful
eyes. ' He has a great deal of character ;
but it wants bringing out. You have too
many of them, Colonel Ward ; you can't
study each one separately, as I shall study
Jack.'

Jack is a lucky dog,' said the Colonel
decisively.

Ford held open the gate for all these
visitors to pass through. Colonel Ward
lingered a moment to call Punch and Judy,
who had run off to play with the old retriever.
Celia turned round and looked at Paul with
eyes full of laughter. She did not speak,
but her eyes said : ' What do you think
now ? Am I a witch ?'

AUTUMN MISTS.

Celia's sudden and triumphant conquest of
Colonel Ward might really have seemed a
little unnatural to anyone less infatuated
than Paul. He had two very easy explanations
of it ; one supplied by love, the other
by friendship. Celia was, of course, irresistible.
Aid the Colonel was only too glad
to be conquered, to be justified in a real
hearty admiration for Paul's future wife.
His objections had only come from a mistaken
sense )f duty ; he was delighted to
find what nonsense they were. He made no

explanation of his change of tactics  to Paul,
the Canon, or anybody ; but from henceforth,
from the day that he presented Celia
with one of his favourite Clumbers, he washer
devoted slave. /

Paul himself, a young man without experience,
could not reach the pitch 3f Colonel
Ward's thoughtful worship. Tie Colonel
suggested that a horse should be bought at
once for Celia. Paul, of cours, was only
too happy, though this present o: his carried
her away from him for hours together, generally
with two elderly cavaliers  the Colonel
and the Canon. Then the Colonel threw
himself, with all his good practical sense,
into the entire restoration and reformation
of the old house ; none of Mss. Percival's
views were too much for him ;this old affection
for her, his new affection for Celia,
carried him over mountains o] ancient prejudice

and difficulty. Paul began to find
himself left behind in this race too. Then
Celia thought the place was a little too
shady, and one day Paul found the Colonel
busy marking some of his finest trees. Then
a faint shade of annoyance appeared on his
pale face.

What are you doing, Colonel V he
said gently. ' Those trees are not coming
down.'

I think you will find they are, my boy,'
said the Colonel. ' Miss Darrell objects to
a mass of shade just here, and she is quite
right.'

Paul said no more, and the Colonel went
on with his markings.

September and October seemed to glide
very swiftly away. It was a beautiful
autumn, still and calm ; excellent weather
for the workmen in and out of Red Towers,

who had soon turned the peaceful old place
into a desert of dust and scaffolding. Everybody
was very happy ; not even Sabin and
his wife had any doubts of their future, which
seemed to them a great deal more assured
than it really was. The Canon, having en-loved
as much shooting' as he cared for and

J u O

some pleasant rides, went back refreshed,
after a month's holiday, to his parish at
Woolsborouofh. In his mind, his fellow-guardian's
unexpected good behaviour was
all owing to that masterly letter of his, unanswered
because unanswerable, but justified
by results. Mrs. Percival and Celia stayed
on for the present at Holm Lodge, where
they had everything to occupy and amuse
them. Paul, the happy lover, his marriage
being fixed for January, moved himself
and his small goods across the road to
Colonel Ward's cottage, where he spent his

nights, living in a dream, he did not always
quite know where.

And Celia was radiant. In that pure,
high air of the pine-woods, she grew stronger
and more beautiful every day. It had always
been her wise way to extract all possible enjoyment
out of life, even at its dullest, without
making herself dependent on anybody or
anything. She had never been bored, she
had always been cheerful and contented ;
and now she was more than contented, she
was very much pleased with herself and all
her surroundings. She enjoyed making the
Colonel talk nonsense, and follow her about
till her aunt was almost jealous ; she liked
the deference of the old servants, especially
Ford, the curious admiration that stared out
of the village faces, the murmurs among the
workmen as she walked about with Paul.
She liked her rides, her journeys up to town.

her unlimited power of indulging every fancy ;
the merest hint of a wish was enough, either
to Paul or the Colonel, though Paul, very
wrongly, was sometimes a little the stupidest
of the two.

In her better moments she liked Paul, and
pitied him rather ; sometimes she caught
herself almost forgetting that, after all, he
was the centre of this new life of hers, for
here at Holm, as the weeks went on, he
was not a very exacting lover. He was
beginning, in truth, to have a certain fear of
teasing Celia, of giving her too much of
himself and his views. She always seemed
to be surrounded with plans and patterns, or
plunged in mysterious talks with her aunt,
or making arrangements with the Colonel, and
asking his advice. The days when she wanted
defending against the Colonel had almost
been pleasant, though Paul would never

have confessed it to himself. Now, in truth,
she seemed to have done what she lauo-hino-lv
suggested that first day  taken away Paul's
only friend : witness that little scene of marking
the trees, Paul's own old trees, without
even the form of consulting hint. Something
in Paul rebelled at that ; a voice spoke to
him, but he would not listen, because, after
all, the Colonel was doing it for Celia. And
generally, not quite always, she herself took
the trouble of driving away any little accidental
shadow that crossed Paul's mind.

But the most beautiful time in a human
life must have its drawbacks, and Paul would
have laughed angrily at anyone who told
him that these autumn weeks were not perfectly
glorious. In all but a few lonely
minutes sometimes, he knew that they were.
He did love Celia better than himself ; he
was not selfish, or jealous, or ungenerous.

S RED TOWERS

If sometimes he knew that his absence would
please her better than his presence  why, it
was only that Sunday at Woolsborough over
again. He knew he was rather a helpless
fellow, ignorant about horses, curtains, and
dados ; and all these things must be arranged.
Celia must please herself thoroughly about
all these things ; and some day, some happy
day next year, when the confusion was over,
and work people and shops were done with,
and they were living together in their
beautiful house, she would let him read
poetry to her, or play to her on the organ
that he meant to have in the library ; and
then they would come out together on the
lawn, the moon shining through the cedars,
and stand where he was standing now ; and
she would really belong to him then, and he
would ask her if she was happy. Then a
great owl floated slowly from one cedar to

another, from darkness into moonlight, and
into darkness again, and hooted his melancholy
good-night to the young Squire.

At the end of October, in spite of sunshine,
the short days were growing cold, and, to
civilized beings like Mrs. Percival and Celia,
the common and woods of Holm began to
seem a little dull and wintry. So, everything
behoof in train at Red Towers, and
going forward to their satisfaction, they made
their plans for going away.

Celia's marriage was to be a gay one, and
the preparations for it wanted a great deal
of time and thouof-ht, and could not be carried
on at all at Hohii Lodge. They were therefore
going to London, and then down to
Woolsborough for a few days, and then to
Paris for their chief shopping, which, in Mrs.
Percival's opinion, could be done nowhere
else.

On their last day at Holm, they had
promised to come to tea with Colonel Ward
and Paul at the Cottage. It was a cold,
bright, quiet afternoon, with a suggestion of
frost in the air, and all the woods not evergreen
were massed in many shades of brown,
and red, and gold. Paul and the Colonel
had been loitering about that afternoon in
the ruins of Red Towers, and came back ina
hurry, covered with dust, to receive their
visitors. The Colonel was inclined also to
be cross with the workmen for idleness.

Done by Christmas ! Nonsense  no such
thing !' he came back muttering.

Paul also was not in good spirits. It was
all right, of course, that the house should be
pulled to pieces, but he could not, like other
people, enjoy the process while it went on.
After an hour or two spent in those dismantled
rooms, he generally felt an intense

longing than usual for the presence of Celia,
for whose sake alone his quiet old house was
given up to the restorers.

It was a dreadful thought that she was
going away tomorrow ; these works without
her would lose their meaning, and become
nothing" but a devastation. He started off
that afternoon to meet her and Mrs. Percival,
with a kind of weight at his heart,
which appeared to him to be simply the
want of Celia.

The road along the common, going from
Red Towers towards Holm, and passing-holm
Lodge close to the lower gate of the
common, dips suddenly below Colonel Ward's
cottage, and is bordered by rugged sandy
banks, with narrow footpaths worn by sheep
and children. Then the road rises again ;
but still the level of the common is higher,
though to the right of the road it shelves

VOL. I. 16

slightly down from this inhabited side of it
towards the great fir-wood, which covers all
the hill-side and runs down into the farther
valley. The common  its green spaces eaten
close by the cows and sheep that graze there,
and covered thickly, for the rest of it, with
furze and bracken, and low-tangled briars,
and cushions of heather now dead and dry 
is a network of small paths, or tracks merely,
leading this ways and that, from one broader
way to another, in and out of the wood. As
to the wood itself, younger trees stand here
and there, pushing their way out into the
common, veiling the entrances, many and
winding, to the inner halls and aisles of what
is worthy to be called a forest.

Paul, leaving the Colonel's cottage, did
not keep the level of the road, but mounted
the bank, and made his way with long light
steps on the rugged edge of it. So it happened

that, looking over the common to
his right, he saw something white running
among the brovvn bracken, and wondered if
one of the Colonel's dogs  Punch, probably
had taken to bad ways and gone out without
leave.

But then he saw a slight grey figure, with
a grey hat, appear suddenly from behind two
or three young fir-trees, and hurry on towards
the darkest, loneliest, steepest part of the
wood. It was Celia : he knew that soft
grey dress well. She was carrying something
white in her hand, something that
looked like an oen letter, and it washer
faithful servant Jack, of course, who
was running before her in the undergrowth.


Paul stood still. She did not turn her
head or see him ; she went on, in and out
amonof the dark fir-stems, until the common

16  2

disappeared in the wood, and she, Paul still
looking after her, disappeared too. His first
impulse had been of course to overtake her ;
as a rule, she never went into the woods
alone ; those woods, as everyone knows, are
too near London to have a very good name,
though Colonel Ward for several years did
all he could to discourage tramps and bad
characters. But as some instinct had said
to Paul once before, that Saturday evening,
when he thought of taking a canoe and
going to meet Celia and her cousin  ' She
would rather I did not,' so it said now 
She does not want me,' and Paul, with a
puzzled mind, hurried on to the Lodge to
meet Mrs. Percival.

He found her sitting by the fire in her
pretty little drawing-room, absorbed in some
letters which had come by the second post,
and particularly a long one from Vincent.

She seemed quite comfortable, and not inclined
to move.

But we thought you were coming to tea
with us,' said Paul. ' And Celia  I saw her
in the distance just now, going into the wood.
It was Celia  I couldn't be mistaken ?'

Oh, I dare say,' said Mrs. Percival.
Why didn't you run after her, or call her
back ? She went out for a walk some time
ago, before the post came. I wish she would
come back, for these are things that want
answering. Yes, of course we were coming
to tea with you and the Colonel. I didn't
know it was so late. Why did you let Celia
escape, dear boy ? She may have forgotten
all about it.'

She wouldn't forget,' said Paul. Then he
added, in excuse for himself : ' She looked
rather as if she wanted to escape, so I
thought I would not follow her.'

Oh, nonsense ! She has been very cold
all day. She was running about with the
dog to warm herself.'

Then Mrs. Percival threw aside her letters,
came to Paul, where he was standing disconsolate
by the window, and laid her hand
kindly on his shoulder.

I know who is too sensitive for his own
happiness,' she said. ' You are doing all you
can, dear, to make Celia a most happy and
fortunate girl, and you are succeeding brilliantly.
But Paul, you would be happier
yourself if you took things as she does, without
too much thoughtfulness. You must
not lay all your own rights and wishes
entirely at her feet, and worship her like an
idol, and blot yourself out of existence altogether.
It is a little morbid to be always
studying her, and fancying, " What will she
think ?" It is not good for you or for her.

Paul, you should learn to trust Celia in the
same way that she trusts you. Does she
ever think that you want to escape from her,
tor instance V

A smile came into Paul's dark face, which
had been sad enough just before.

That is absurd and impossible,' he said.
She couldn't think that.'

Then go,' said Mrs. Percival, patting his
shoulder. ' You saw which way she went ;
go and bring her back to the Cottage. Don't
wait to walk with me. I will take care of
the Colonel, and keep some tea for you
two silly children, if you are at all long.
But don't be long ; it is cold in the
woods.'

What a child he is !' Mrs. Percival
moralized rather sadly, as Paul rushed past
the window on his way to the woods. * Many
boys of seventeen are older. I hope Celia will

make him happy. I hope she appreciates
him. I wish he was not a Httle too nice for
her. They will not always have me to keep
things straight.'

The air was very clear and full of yellow
light, and the shadows were growing long,
as Paul crossed the common and went into
the wood, now a great temple with golden
pillars, and a dark roof through which a
thousand stars were shining.

It was not till he was really in the wood
that he thought how difficult it would be to
find Celia. She might have taken any one
of twenty ways : the soft, deep paths, with
their carpet of pine-needles, crossed each
other constantly, leading away in all directions.
Here and there was a clearing, where
trees had been cut down ; beyond these there
were cart-tracks.

Most of the wood was carpeted with oak

scrub and whortle-bushes, growing close to
the ground among the tall pine-stems, and
making it difficult to see through any extent
of the long colonnades of trees.

Paul whistled loudly as he followed one
of the paths, thinking that Jack might hear
and understand, if Celia did not ; but his
whistle brought no reply ; and perhaps for
half an hour he searched about in vain.
Then it struck him to take the shortest way
across the wood, down into the valley on the
north side, where there were a few cottages.
It was the prettiest bit of the wood. He
had taken Celia there one day and told her
it was like Switzerland ; the trees were very
large and tall, growing up on wild sandy
banks about the path, which went winding
down almost precipitously.

Far below lay the little valley, with a
stream dancing in the hollow, and blue wood-smoke

stealing up from half-hidden chimneys.
Two or three goats and small active cows
found a living on these slopes and ledges ;
one of them carried a tinkling bell. This,
and the smell of the pines, and the musical
trickle of water, gave a real Alpine feeling
to that corner of Paul's wood ; one expected
to meet a dark-faced boy with a long stick
and a rose in his hat, singing as he came to
drive the cattle home.

Following the path that led to this, Paul
]presently came in sight of Celia, sitting
above the path at the foot of one of the
largest trees, with the glory of the evening
light shining full upon her and upon Jack ashe
lay close by.

She was sitting perfectly still, gazing down
into the valley, and she held an open letter
in her hand.

It seemed to Paul that she looked strangely



pale and sad ; but when he reached her, on
the contrary, she was flushed, and began to
laugh. The paths were so soft that she only
heard him coining when he was actually
climbing up to her perch above the pathway ;
the lifting of Jack's long ears, and wagging
of his tail, had passed quite unnoticed by
her. But Paul, coming to her side, saw no
letter, and thought for a moment that his
eyes must have deceived him. Then he
very naturally forgot this trifling circumstance.


Celia laughed, but she did not look pleased
or happy.

What is it, Paul ? What do you want V
she said, and her manner was certainly cold ;
his instinct had not quite deceived him
after all.

I want you to come to tea at the Cottage,'
he said. ' I have been looking for you for

the last half-hour. You had not forgotten,
had you ?'

Oh, bother !' said Celia.

What would have been supremely ugly
from any other lips was almost pretty from
lies.

 Don't you want to come V he said. He
had thrown himself down beside her on a
cushion of ling, and was looking up With
eyes not unlike Jack's in their wistfulness.


 Don't look at me like that,' she said,  as
if I was going to beat you ;' and she laughed
again, and turned her head towards the
valley.

Paul was silent : his eyes fell, and studied
the ground till she spoke again.

The Colonel is a darling, of course, but
one miofht have a little too much of him. I
suppose he won't manage all our affairs

always, will he, aud want us to go to
tea in that stuffy little house every other
day ?'

Paul did not know what to say. He
could hardly believe that it was Celia speaking,
complaining of the Colonel's devotion
to her interests, now that she had secured it.
If anyone had a right to complain a little,
perhaps it was Paul ; and he did not even
admit such a thought into his mind. But
Celia, with all her sweetness  what could
be the meaning of it ?

Has anything happened to vex you,
dear ?' bait Paul. He did not feel it necessary
to reassure her about the Colonel.

I am only in a bad temper,' she answered
quickly. ' Go back to Colonel Ward, and
tell him you couldn't find me.'

Xot so very untrue, either,' Paul reflected,
for this was not the Celia he knew.

He had often thought about the maofic of
the woods ; all sorts of strange demons
might live among those dark tall trees, whose
rustle took one straight away into a German
fairy-tale. Some of this enchantment might
have seized on Celia.

Mrs. Percival is there by this time,' he
said.

All right ; then he won't want me.'

And am I to go ? I don't like leaving
you here alone. It will soon be dark, and
it's getting uncommonly cold. Don't you
think so ?'

Xo ; I'm very hot,' said Celia. ' I will
come presently. You can wait for me or
not, as you please.'

Paul made no answer, but waited patiently.
It was cold ; the sun was not far from setting,
and a chill air came breathing through
the wood. No one who was not in love

would have dreamed of sitting out under
trees on such an autumn evening.

Dear  have I done anything to make
you unhappy ?' Paul said presently.

No, and you never could,' said Celia  a
remark which might have two meanings, but
Paul took the best. ' Only I wish you
would not always be fancying things about
me. It teases me, do you know. I am
dreadfully independent, and I like to be left
alone. Somebody  who knew me rather
well  once said I was as cold as a fish, and
as hard as a stone '

What lies !'

I don't know. There was truth in it, I
believe. So much the worse for any poor
dear things who are ofeese enough to care
for me  so much the worse for you.'

He did not speak, but quietly took her
hand and drew it down to his lips  the

right hand, which before he came had been
holding a letter. After a moment she took
it away from him.

I am not worth it, Paul,' she said ; and
there was some sweetness in her voice again
now. ' I told you before, I am not fit to be
spoilt. I don't even enjoy it as I ought. I
wish you would forget me sometimes, and
think of something else.'

That's too much to ask. I would do
anything for you but that,' said Paul,
especially when you are going away tomorrow'


Celia gave a little impatient sigh.

I suppose you will be coming too ?'

I don't know I should like to go to
Paris when you are there, if you don't
mind.'

Oh yes, you must go with us to Paris.
Perhaps you w411 come across that French

friend of yours again ; your friend with the
grand name.'

I wish I could,' said Paul. ' Look here,
some day  next year, if you like  couldn't
we havre a tour in that west part of France
where his old place is ? He told me a lot
about that country, and I think it must be
very jolly. He is generally down there
early in the autumn ; we might go and call
upon him.'

Yes ; I dare say it would be rather
amusing,' said Celia.

She could not send Paul away ; and so,
with an effort at her usual good sense, she
resigned herself, and glided out of her bad
temper into a better one. When she at last
walked back with him to the Cottage, she
was almost herself again ; only a slightly
nervous flush, a shadow across her eyes, and

VOL. I. 17

a little absentees of manner, could have
suggested any trouble.

Mrs. Percival did not even know that
she had met the postman ; and no one could
guess that in her pocket she carried a
passionate love - letter from her cousin
Vincent.

TEA WITH THE COLONEL.

No doubt it was the humility and romance
of his own nature which made it impossible
for Paul to understand Celia. Honestly, in
many ways, he did not think himself good
enough for her ; and in spite of the things
she said to him sometimes  things which
filled him with a sort of ' rapturous pain ' 
he could hardly persuade himself that she did
not think so too.

Mrs. Percival's hint, that he might be a
little morbid and distrustful, was not exactly
needed, for any real distrust of Celia would

172

have been unbearable. He believed that
she loved him, not being able to conceive of
any other reason why she should have accepted
him ; his ideal Celia certainly could
not have been influenced by any of his possessions.
Though she sometimes talked and
generally behaved as if she cared for nothing
deeper than amusement, fashion, fun,  art '
and money, Paul flattered himself that he
saw beyond all this, and that she was generous,
good, noble, clever, high-minded, earnest.
Not exactly poetical or sentimental ; but all
the wiser and better and truer for that,
perhaps ; and he had enough of this nonsense
in his composition for both of them.
Possibly Celia was all the more entrancing
because she was matter-of-fact.

Now Celia, whose character, as we know,
was of the most simple and earthly description,
could not help being conscious of the

wonderful romance that was woven about
her. It could not be helped ; it was Paul's
way ; and sometimes it amused her very
much. Sometimes it touched her, and almost
awoke the fine feelings he imagined ; then
there had been instances of her really and
honestly trying to make him understand her
better. But those wrecks at Holm, and Paul's
constant companionship, had not done her
any good. She was interested in Red Towers ;
she was well amused, and very happy in her
own way ; but she was getting a little weary
of Paul and the heights on which he lived.
Not that he often tried to drag her up to
those heights, or tormented her with his
thoughts, hopes, and opinions in any way
whatever ; but she was by no means stupid,
and she could not help feeling that his point
of view on every subject was different from
hers.

Paul, in fact, lived in a world from which
at least half mankind are shut out  some
people may say, fortunately for them. If he
had not fallen in love with Celia he would
hardly have found a word to say to her, and
if Red Towers had belonged to anybody
else, she would scarcely have been aware of
his existence. Colonel Ward had a dim
vision of these things before Celia fascinated
him ; but he had forgotten all about them
now.

Mrs. Percival had not been without her
misgivings ; but she was not logical ; and she
was capable of shutting her eyes to what she
did not wish to see.

Vincent, one is inclined to think, was the
most clear-sighted among these people, when
he said to his cousin :

You can't marry a fellow like that 
you f

But then Vincent's motives were interested.


His convictions were, however, strong
enough to make him write that letter to
Celia, which had disturbed her very much
more than she meant or wished to be disturbed.
While Red Towers was being prepared
for her  while she and her aunt were
beginning to be quite absorbed in the consideration
of her clothes and all her arrangements,
shopping in London, shopping in
Paris, plans for the prettiest wedding that
had ever been seen in Woolsborough Cathedral,
the Bishop himself, perhaps, to perform
the ceremony, and Dr. Chanter to play
magnificently on the organ  here came a
letter meant to upset everything, a letter
that might naturally have perished by spontaneous
combustion on its way through the
post ; perhaps the best thing that could have

happened to it. But it crossed sea and land
in safety, and was given into the hands of
Miss Celia Darrell by the old postman on
his white pony, who lived on the common,
and was not behind anyone else in his admiration
of the Squire's young lady.

Celia was quite innocent in this matter.
She had really gone out for a walk with
Jack because she was cold, and rather cross
she did not know why. She met the
postman quite accidentally as he rode up to
the gate with his letter-bag, and with her
usual good-nature she opened the gate for
him. Then he said :

I have got one letter for you, miss.
Would you be pleased to take it ?'

And then, seeing Vincent's writing and
the Indian stamp, her first impulse really
and truly was to take it in to her aunt. But
she opened it, and the first words were :

My own dearest Celia,

I have written to my mother, but
have not said a word of this to her. She
treated me too badly in the summer to deserve
my confidence ; therefore, I leave it to
you to tell her what you please

Having read so far, and glanced farther,
Celia was conscious of a hot flush about her
head, and a cold shiver everywhere else.
This letter certainly was not for the public,
and she positively must have a little time
alone, to read it and think over it.

Tear it up and take no notice of it ; that
will be the best way and the least troublesome.
It was very \Tong of him to write
it,' said something in Celia. ' I shall do no
such thing,' Celia answered herself. ' He
was badly treated, and it is a miserable
world.'

So she escaped into the wood, and found
her way down into that distant corner, and
sitting there, she read her cousin s letter
through and through again. What had
Paul's letters ever been to this ? Unreasonable,
dishonourable, selfish, it yet made
Celia's eyes shine, and her heart beat fast,
for a minute or two, as if Vincent himself was
there, and she had again, for the first time,
the triumphant feeling of his love for her.

What did he want her to do ? First,
without a moment's delay, she must break
off her engagement, which in any case was
too impossibly absurd and unnatural to last
long ; or if she did not choose to do this, she
must put off her marriage a few months and
break it off later. It must be done sometime
; she must understand that her marriage
was out of the question. ' You shall marry
me,' Vincent wrote, ' though I fear we must

wait three years. I have been promised an
appointment in the spring, in an unsettled
part among the hill tribes, where I could not
take you. It will last three years ; after
that I shall get something better. If you
don't choose to break off this thing yourself,
give me time, and I will write to my father
and make such a row that they will have tolet
you do as you like. And that will be as
I like, for you know you belong to me, and
to nobody else in the world.'

So he went on, with stronger language
than he had ever used to Celia face to face,
with all the arguments of a spoilt man, unable
to realize or consider any claims but his
own, forgetting, too, the coldness in Celia
that he had complained of, which might have
made him doubt, at least, whether she would
care to give up all her bright worldly prospects
and wait three years for him.

Most men would have hesitated before
they made such a proposal to a girl who had
never confessed to anything but a cousinly
fondness for them, and had never shown any
wish or intention to break off her engagement.
To write such a letter certainly
wanted all Vincent's self-confidence, which
was large.

Why can't I be left in peace V Celia
sighed over the letter, for it touched her
enough to make her cross and unhappy. ' I
do hate being bothered. I thought he had
forgotten all about it by this time : I am

sure I had, nearly. I only wish well, it's

no use wishing. Things can't be perfect in
this world, and I certainly have no right to
be discontented. I should have to break
Paul's heart, and I really shouldn't like todo
that ; and then what an awful idea, to
wait three years  and then go out to India,

which I don't at all care about  and he
might get an appointment in some horrid
place, dull or unhealthy ! Put off my marriage
! No, dear thing, by no means, if that
is to give you a chance. I believe I would
rather put it on.'

With all these strictly virtuous reflections,
Celia ought to have been glad to see Paul
when he found her in the wood. But she
felt the irritability that follows on being
very good, and so was not altogether glad to
see him.

In the meanwhile, a very interesting talk
with Colonel Ward made Mrs. Percival
almost unconscious of the long delay before
her two young people came in. As she satin
the only comfortable chair in his drawing-room,
with Di on the hearth-rug gazing at
her devoutly, the other dogs having been
turned out for the occasion, a cheerful fire

crackling, and that same golden sunset light,
which illumined the wood, shining in at the
latticed window behind her, she began to
think that this was really rather a pretty old
room, and might be made something of. It
was long and low, stretching across one gable
of the cottage, with a window at each end ;
the dark walls had a few good pictures on
them, the floor was covered with a hideous
old drab carpet, and the furniture was hopelessly
frightful, severe, but not artistically
so. But on the low mantelpiece, and on the
top of an oak cupboard against the wall,
there were some very rare and beautiful
pieces of Chinese and Indian china, an old
French clock, at which Mrs. Percival gazed
with envy, and some lovely ornaments in old
French enamel  all quite thrown away on
the Colonel, she thought. A fine Louis
Quinze fan, which was lying on the mantelpiece,

the Colonel presented to his guest to
screen her from the fire. As she played
with its mother-o'-pearl sticks, and examined
its exquisite painting, she was still more
struck with the inconsistency of worldly
arrangements ; it seemed more than absurd,
actually wrong, that such a fan as this should
belong to Colonel Ward, and not to her.
Well, it might have been hers, many years
ago, if she had chosen to take its owner with
it. But in those remote days his uncle had
not left him that good fortune which, besides
his pretty things, was so utterly wasted on
the poor old dear. He was not a miser,
certainly ; but how ridiculous for a rich
man to live in the way he did !

This train of thought, while the Colonel
was poking the fire and Barty was
bringing in the tea-tray, led Mrs.
Percival on to wonder, as she had often

wondered before, who would be the Colonel's
heir.

 Please don't wait for them,' she said.
Celia may have lost her way and gone
farther than she intended. The woods are
really very puzzling. Or, at any rate, we
must not wonder if they are a little long 
the last of these happy days together. Only
this morning Celia was saying to me how
very good you had been to her. Colonel Ward
and indeed I feel it too. Oh yes, sugar,
please. I never can imagine why everybody
doesn't take it.'

 Nor can I,' said the Colonel.

He was not the least anxious about Paul
and Celia, and looked the picture of happiness
as he waited on his old love. Her
brown eyes were smiling and shining in their
sweetest way. She did not look as if she
missed the Canon, or wanted anything she

had not got. There was a sort of pretty
tenderness in her manner to her old lover,
who had remained unmarried all his life for
her sake.

 I hope the young people won't hurry
themselves for me,' he said. * At this
moment I'm a privileged person. As for
Miss Darrell, and the pretty things she says,
it is very kind of her ; but I have sometimes
feared she must think me an interfering
old bore.'

Now don't be silly,' said Mrs. Percival
in her soft sweet voice, smiling at him over
her tea-cup. * One doesn't expect affectation
from you. You know perfectly well
that we could not have got on at all without
your help. Our dear Paul is of no use, and
would have driven us a little wild with his
unpractical ideas, which were rather extravagant
too.'

VOL. I. 18

Well, you are very kind,' repeated the
Colonel. ' Paul is the best fellow in the world
but it is true he is too poetical for everyday.
Let us be thankful, for his sake, that
he will have such a wife as Miss DarrelL'

Call her Celia,' said Mrs. Percival ; ' she
would like it, I'm sure, and so would Paul.
My dear Colonel, you make me so happy !
Do you know, I was afraid, at first, that you
did not very much approve of Celia V

Who told you so ?' asked the Colonel
quickly ; he could not think that Paul had
betrayed him.

Nobody, nobody,' said Mrs. Percival ; ' it
was my own idea. But I understood it
quite well. Of course you thought that
Paul ought to make a better marriage. So
he might  in some ways.'

The fellow's guardian, you see  I felt
responsible.'

And then Colonel Ward checked himself,
remembering that his charming friend was
the wife of the fellow's other guardian,
whose conduct he had so severely blamed.
He handed her the cake, poked the fire, and
then went on :

I don t know why I should try to deceive
you, Mrs. Percival. I thought Paul
was too young and too boyish to know his
own mind, and, considering that a property
like this is hardly so profitable as you would
expect from its size, and needs a good deal
of management to make the best of it, I
thought that when Paul married, he had
better marry a sensible woman with money.
And I was barely acquainted with your niece,
so that '

It never struck you that she had even
one of these qualifications ? Well, I don't
wonder. I think you were quite right,' said

182

Mrs. Percival. ' If Paul had belonged tome,
I should have thought just the same.'
Then she looked up and laughed. ' I never
can remember that Paul is not a relation of
yours.'

That is very natural. I make the same
mistake myself said the Colonel. ' What
is a relation, after all ? I never had a
relation to care for  except my old uncle.
This boy's father was as near to me as a
brother  nearer than some brothers.'

Of course he will leave him his money.
What a match for Celia ! She is a lucky
girl !' thought Mrs. Percival. She said,
after a minute, rather gravely : ' You have
certainly taken his father's place with Paul,
and I don't think he ought to marry without
your approval. Has he got it, really,
now ?'

Now that I have made the happy discovery

that Mrs. Percival's niece is another
edition of her aunt,' said the Colonel in his
stiff way, ' I could not wish a better fate for
my own son if I had one.'

Mrs. Percival smiled, but a little doubtfully.


I don't think there is much likeness ;
but I do honestly think they are suited to
each other. Paul is very happy ; we need
have no fears about that. And as to Celia
it is no use fretting over the past, is it ?
But I only wish my poor brother-in-law
had managed his affairs better, so that she
might at least have had a little of her own.
It is rather painful for a girl to bring absolutely
nothing to her husband. Celia would
feel it, I know, if she had not such perfect
confidence in Paul. Oh, I can't tell you
what a fortunate girl I think her !'

Colonel Ward looked very grave.

She is fortunate he said. ' And so is
Paul,' he added, after a moment.

There was a slight change in his manner,
and Mrs. Percival was quite aware of it.
She did not know, however, that it was
caused by the mention of her brother-in-law,
whose name reminded Colonel Ward of
doubts and anxieties he had almost forgotten.
She thought of something else, for which
she had long felt that they owed the Colonel
some sort of apology.

I hope you understood our motives,' she
began ; ' our reason for keeping Celia's engagement
quite to ourselves for those few
first weeks. I hope Paul explained to
you '

 Yes, yes,' said the Colonel, a little absently,
and this was very strange in him.
 It was your own affair ; you did quite
right.'

He was thinking of Captain Darrell and
his character, and then of the steadfastness
which was plain to him in Celia, and the
frank charm of her manner  though, to be
sure. Ford had said one day how much that
free way of Miss Dare ell's favoured the
Captain, and had been terribly snubbed for
his remark. These things happened everyday.
It would be too hard to make a child
responsible for her father's faults :  on ne
choisit pas son pere,' as Charles the Tenth
said one day so nobly. Not that this occurred
to the excellent Colonel, who hated
the French, and never could remember a
quotation ; but he thought something very
like it, as once and for all he laid aside the
last misgiving with regard to Celia. It was
not for long that he had thought of her as
Tom Darrell's daughter. To him she must
be Mrs. Percival's niece, Paul Romaine's

wife ; and these were two strong claims
to the utmost of his faith and friendship.


What is he thinking about ?' Mrs. Percival
said to herself, for she saw that his mind
had strayed far away from her.

He was pulling his moustache, and staring
blankly at the fire. After two or three
minutes he got up, walked across the room,
and unlocked an oak cupboard on the top of
which some of his best china stood. From
this he took out two small old leather cases,
which he brought to Mrs. Percival, and laid
on the table close beside her.

 My wedding present for Celia,' he said.
I want you to do me a great kindness ; to
take them to Hunt and Russell, to be done
up and put into new cases. I am not likely
to be in town myself at present. They can
send them to you at Woolsborough, and you

will then add to your kindness by giving
them to Celia  with my love.'

Mrs. Percival looked up at him, smiling
with delight.

My dear Colonel she said, ' I wish Celia
could have heard you say that. But I am
not going to be quite so obliging. Oh no ;
Hunt and Russell must return them to you,
and then you must give them to Celia yourself,
when you come to the wedding.'

I don't think I shall be there,' said the
Colonel quickly. ' No ; you must really dome
this favour.'

As he spoke he opened the cases, and
Mrs. Percival made an exclamation, though
perhaps she was not entirely surprised, for
she knew that Colonel Ward had some
diamonds. These that he had chosen for his
present to Celia were his very best ; a star
and a butterfly, both magnificent ; they

would have been a splendid present for a
princess.

Oh, my dear Colonel, they are too
beautiful, too magnificent,' Mrs. Percival
murmured softly, and there were really tears
in her eyes. * Surely there must be somebody
 somebody belonging to you  who hasa
claim to these lovely things. Celia will
not know how to thank you  she will have
no presents approaching these. Really, I
don't think I can let you do it.'

Lady Romaine's diamonds are better
than these,' said the Colonel, smiling.  She
will have them, of course ; and I don't think
a lady can have too many of such things.
What use are they to an old fellow like
me ?'

But you ought to leave them to someone
in your own family.'

 There is no one. Since I found that I

should never marry  since Paul was born, I
have meant them for his wife.'

He looked down at the table for a minute,
and so did Mrs. Percival, quite understanding
the gentle hint that these beautiful things
might have been her own. There they lay
flashing from their satin beds, which were
yellow with age ; but the stones in their everlasting
youth looked ready to begin a new life
once more.

Don't tell Miss Darrell, please,' said
the Colonel.  If you will kindly promise
me that, I will consult you about some
other plans of mine  in confidence, I
mean.'

Anything you like to tell me is perfectly
safe,' said Mrs. Percival earnestly.

Colonel Ward took up the cases, and put
them back into his cupboard, saying, ' I will
send them to you.' Then, coming back to

the table, he poured out another cup of tea
for Mrs. Percival.

Our young people are behaving very
badly she said.

 I hope they will let me have ten
minutes more with you,' the Colonel replied
gravely.

He then sat down and began to talk of
his own affairs. Perhaps the deep sympathetic
interest in Mrs. Percival's face was
t first more apparent than real, for at that
moment the exact amount of his income and
savings did not seem to matter to her much.
But when a man possessed of eighty or
ninety thousand pounds begins to talk of
making his will, his nearest friends must
feel some amount of interest. And very
soon Mrs. Percival was bending forward in
her chair, her hands clasped, her eyes shining,
her face pale with excitement, while her old

friend ended all that he was telling her with
these words :

 I intended, as I say, to make Paul my
heir, to leave him everything. But in the
last few weeks I have thought of a better
plan  at least, I like it better  and a few
words you said just now make me think that
you will like it. You have forgotten  may
I remind you ?  you said it was painful for a
o'irl to brings nothing to her husband. Well,
my dear '  the Colonel's clear blue eyes
looked very odd as he forgot himself in this
manner  ' Paul's wife is Paul to me, and I
mean to gratify myself by leaving her  I
think about seventy thousand pounds '

Oh no, no !' cried Mrs. Percival, flushing
scarlet.

Why not V said the Colonel quietly.

It is too much. Celia doesn't deserve
it. She has no claim on you.'

It is not a question of claims. Neither
has Paul any claim ; but he is my dear old
friend's son, and Celia belongs to you.'

At that moment the click of the garden
gate announced Paul and Celia.

 Don't make any difficulty, please,' said
Colonel Ward, gravely and quickly.  Only
oblige me by keeping my plans to yourself.
The thing is not done yet, and I do not wish
her to know before her wedding-day.'

Mrs. Percival had started up from her
chair, and was standing by the chimney-piece.
At that moment she could find no
words, being torn by a conflict of feelings ;
her eyes were full of tears, and she held out
her hand to her old lover, who stooped and
kissed it He had seldom, perhaps, known
a much happier moment.

Mrs. Percival laughed at Paul and Celia
when they came in, and teased them for

being so long ; the Colonel was grave and
polite as usual. One thought went on
tormenting Mrs. Percival, while she was the
life of the little party.

Seventy thousand pounds ! My joor
Vincent ! If Celia had that, and he could
marry her !'

And the instant answer,  It is only her
marrying Paul that gives her a chance of
it,' was, strangely enough, of no use whatever
in driving that thought away.

As they were travelling up to town the
next day, Celia said to Mrs. Percival :

I had a letter from Vincent yesterday.
When you write, will you give my love to
him, and say I will answer it soon V

Yesterday !' said Mrs. Percival.

Yes. I met the postman on the road.
I forgot to tell you.'

What did he say ?'

Vincent ? Oh, nothing particular. It
was a very kind letter

Celia looked out of the window, and her
aunt did not find it necessary to say anymore.


LA TOUR BLANCHE.

Through the fields of France, past vineyard
slopes bare and brown, past running streams,
old white water-mills, rows of poplars whose
few yellow leaves rustled softly against their
slender grey stems, from one little wayside
town, with its quaint old church, to another,
with its stately old chateau, a Frenchman
and his daughter were travelling down from
Tours into the west.

The two were a curious contrast, and na
one would have guessed at once that they
were father and child. He was tall, broad,,

VOL. r. 19

and fair ; she, a girl of about fourteen,
very small and childish-looking for her age,
was extremely dark, with a fine, delicate
little profile, large black eyes of velvet softness,
with long curling lashes, and a quantity
of jet-black hair, which made a natural frizz
all over her head, and fell in a thick curly
mane on her shoulders. She was dressed ina
thick dark blue frock, with a picturesque
sort of cloak caught up with ribbons, and a
round hat on the back of her head, under
which the bright little face changed its
expression twenty times in a minute.

She and her father were alone in the ,
and were talking and laughing
as fast as they could  she was talking, that
is, and he was laughing at her jokes, and at
the stories she was telling him about her
friends at the convent she had just left. It
was all very amusing, it seemed ; but everybody

was as amiable as possible, and as to the
reverend mothers, she loved them with all her
heart.

I do not quite know why grandmamma
means to send me to a new convent, pajDa,'
she said, with the first faint shadow on her
face.

He looked troubled, too, for a moment.

 That you may be near her, petite, you
understand. And near me, too, when I amin
Paris  after all, though, the fault is not
grand mamma's ; it's mine.'

Ah, bad little papa ! you don't know
what it is to make all your friends over again,
and your enemies, too. And they are sure
to be horrid girls in Paris, who won't let me
tease them. Ah, I shall have to be so very
comme ilfcmf, it breaks my heart to think
of it.'

La, la ! don't let us hear about broken

192

hearts, and all those tragedies. There are
worse thing's to make over aofain than friends,
or enemies either.'

Confessions, when one has committed the
same sins over and over again I' suggested
the child, lifting her eyebrows with a solemn
little air.

Ah, yes, terrible,' said her father, smiling
faintly. ' Well, Antoinette, your grand-mamma
and I have been obliged to talk
things over seriously.'

That was a little terrible.'

Yes, more than a little. And she wanted
you near her, which was quite right, and I
wanted you, just at this moment, to go
home with me for two days. So grand-mamma
wrote to the Reverend Mother and
arranged it, do you see ? And your holidays
this winter will be longer than usual, because
I shall take you back to Paris with me.

And listen : grand mamma thinks you will
catch cold, if you go with me to La Tour
Blanche when all the leaves are falling.
You must promise me to do nothing of the
sort, or I leave you at Saint-Bernard with
Madame de Cernay.'

If you please, papa, don't do that !'
exclaimed Antoinette.

Very well ; but remember, if you go to
Paris with a cough, grand mamma will never
forgive me. The poor dear lady hates La
Tour Blanche already, and what would she
say then ? She would take my little Netta
away from me for ever.'

Oh no, papa ; you and I will be very
careful,' said the child, slipping her hand
into his arm. ' We both love old Tour
Blanche ; we won't let grand mamma hate it
any more. Do you know what I should like,
little papa, if I could have my own way V

Something extravagant. A fine velvet
frock, for instance, instead of this old blue
thing.'

No  well, it is absolutely older than you
think, though I do wear out my frocks faster
than other people. But this is a beautiful
plan. I said it at recreation the other day,
when we all gave our ideas of happiness  to
live alone with you at La Tour Blanche.
The others laughed, but it was quite true.
I can't think of anything happier. We
should never be sad or dull, you and I ; we
understand each other so magnificently. We
should amuse ourselves all day long, and
never want to oo to Paris. I don't care for
Paris, myself

Her father made no answer at once, but
leaned back in his seat, pulling his fair
moustache, and stared out of the opposite
window.

95

What, nobody but you and I ? Not
grand mamma V he said.

No, she would always be calling me in to
take care of my complexion. Besides, she
wouldn't come

And you would grow up a nice little
savage. And have you forgotten that the
place is half tumbling down, stained with
damp, half furnished, except with dust, and
rats, and ghosts V

 Ah, mon Dieu !' murmured Antoinette ;
and she crossed herself, for the train was
gliding past a cemetery on a hill, at the
entrance of a little town. ' I would rather
live in it like that, than not at all,' she said.
 But we must restore it, like M. de Cernay.
I have heard you say that Saint-Bernard
was a funny old place years ago.'

So it was, petite ; but M. de Cernay is
a rich man, do you see ? I am a poor man.

But here we are : we must talk about these
things another time.'

After passing under the cemetery hill
they crept a few hundred yards farther,
between garden walls, till they reached the
small station of Saint-Bernard, and here
they got out. The fierce faces of the station
officials softened as they greeted Antoinette's
father ; he was evidently a popular man.

Honour, M. le Marquis. Poniard is
outside there with the dogcart,' said one
of them.

M. le Baron was here just now, asking
for monsieur,' cried another.  Somebody
told him the train had come in, and he went
away.'

He is not far off. Call him back, somebody.
Your baggage, monsieur : allow me.'

Even a few years ago, it was by no means
common for a French gentleman in his own

country to meet with all these signs of popularity.
But this man was a hero among his
own people, partly from the extraordinary
sweet temper and good nature which saved
some men of his kind in the great Revolution.
They were proud of him, and somehow
not envious, as he stood among them
like a great fair Englishman, taller than any
of them ; and the English were popular in
France then. Outside the station a shabby
dogcart was waiting, drawn by a rough-coated
horse, which a young man in plain
clothes was holding. If a Marquis's coronet
had not been visible on cart and harness,
the conveyance, from its looks, might have
belonged to some farmer.

 We shall overtake M. de Cernay,' said
the Marquis, as he helped his daughter into
the front seat of the dogcart. But before
he had time to get in himself, a small, dark,

ugly man came bustling back along the
road, hot with haste, under the grey-november
sky.

My dear Montmirail ! My dear Achille l's
cried M. de Cernay, whose smile was most
agreeable. * You are not going straight off
to La Tour Blanche ? Mademoiselle, how
do you do ? Charmed to see you : it is a
privilege to see our neighbours again. But
you must dine and sleep at our house, my
dear Achille. My wife will never forgive
me if I go back without you and Mille,
Antoinette.'

 Thank you, my dear friend, but '

Xo excuses. We have a great deal to-say
''to you. We have had letters that concern
you. What do you say now V M. de
Cernay stopped, smiling more than ever
for some strange agitation showed itself in
his friend's face.

Look here said the Marquis, laying his
hand on De Cernay's shoulder. ' Do me
this kindness. Make my excuses to
Madame de Cernay for this evening, and if
you have nothing better to do tomorrow
and will drive over to breakfast at La Tour
Blanche, I shall be enchanted to see you.
There we can talk things over, and you can
tell me about  these letters. If Madame
de Cernay will honour me and Antoinette
by coming with you, though I hardly dare
ask her to such an establishment '

She will, she will  charmed to renew
her friendship with Mdlle. Antoinette 
who, upon my word, is more beautiful than
ever,' he added confidentially, with a laughing
glance at the child, who smiled at him
brightly.

Dear little M. de Cernay T she saide
as she drove away with her father.  He

is very good, but not very good-looking ;
what do you say V

I say there are not many good-looking
people in the world.'

You need not complain ; you see one
whenever you look in the glass

Little flatterer, you expect me to believe
you. And no doubt you believed M. de
Cernay when he said you were beautiful.' 

Ah no,' she said a little sadly ; ' I am
too black to be pretty ; all the girls say so.
That was only one of his kind speeches.
Don't you think, papa, that women ought to
be fair ?'

They say so. I don't know,' he answered
rather carelessly. Perhaps he was
thinking of something else.

Mamma was dark, to be sure,' she
whispered to herself ; and then M. de
Montmirail whipped the horse impatiently.

You should have had him chipped, Pom-mart.'


M. le Marquis gave no orders answered
his man.

They drove through the low white outskirts
of the little town, and then for some
distance along a high-road, yellow and even,
bordered by grass banks with stately grey
poplars, large and old, growing in them at
regular intervals. Between each five or six
of these poplars was a square and tidy heap
of stones for mending the road, arranged
there by the ' wantonness,' who do their
work in this artistic fashion. The road ran
on perfectly straight up and down hill, as
far as one could see, but M. de Montmirail
did not drive very far along it. He turned
into a green grassy-sided lane, sheltered by
bushes and willow-trees, near a clear, quiet
stream, where a few small cows and goats

were feeding, under the care of a group of
wild-looking children. Then he turned up
a hill, away from the stream, leaving on
the left a picturesque old mill, and some
thatched farm-buildings standing among
poplars.

The lane divided itself here, one branch
running on by the stream and the trees, the
other climbing to higher ground, and presently
coming out on a bare upland, with
great brown ploughed fields stretching away
on each side, bleak and lonely, and trees and
roofs only to be seen in the distance.

But as they drove on, approaching the
l3row of a sheepish hill, the road made a
sudden turn down to the left, and a rich
and pretty valley lay before them. In
summer it must have been a mass of
greenery ; now some of the trees were bare,
but others were still clothed in brown and

gold and lingering green, and with the red
roofs of a village clustered and half hidden
amongst them, even under that grey November
sky the valley had a beauty of its
own. Looking down from this point on the
road, one saw the white church-spire rising
below among the varied roofs, and the little
shady cemetery enclosed within its walls ;
and then came the picturesque confusion of
trees, rows of poplars marking the stream
as it ran through deep meadows and under
the road ; and then, on the opposite slope,
the clustered trees broke above into bare
slopes of vineyard facing the sun, and the
top of the hill, higher than on this side of
the valley, was covered with dark, gloomy-looking
fir-woods.

But the chief feature of that slope was
a large white building that rose among the
thickest of the trees, a great white tower

or pavilion, its grey slated roof glimmerings
looking down on the village in the hollow
with an air of stately command and kind
protection, as if the great Revolution, for
instance, was a thing that had never really
come to pass, or at least was not worth
remembering.

Dear old Tour Blanche I' exclaimed little
Antoinette de Montmirail, as she came insight
of that wild old house among the trees,

I wish we were going to stay there always

Do you ? Well, I partly agree with
you,' said her father.  I should like to
live there most of the year, but that is impossible
unless the house can be restored ;
and pray where is the money to come
from V

Oh, I hate money,' said Antoinette.

What happiness if it had never been invented
!'

 I don't know, after all,' said her father,
as they drove down into the village street,
that it would be wise to spend so much
money here. You see, we have so little land
here now. The wise thing would be to sell
it to some good man who has made a fortune
by chocolate or camels. What do you
say to that? Monsieur et Madame Chocolat,
et les petit s Chocolat. A grand day for the
old Tour Blanche. They would fill it with
splendid china, and Louis Quinze furniture,
and Gobelins tapestry, and live there magnificently.
What do you say? Shall we do it?
Your grandmother would be enchanted.'

 And two people's hearts would be
broken.'

Whose, then ?'

Mine and M. de Cernay's.'

'Ah, yes, you are right. M. de Cernay
wants me to live here as much as you do

VOL. I. 20

But he knows the difficulties better than
you. In fact, I will tell you a secret.'
The cheerful Achille bent down to his little
daughter, and looked quite solemnly into
her eyes.  There is only one way in which
I can live here, and restore the chateau,' he
said close to her ear.

Is there a way ?' she said, gazing up
with bright intelligence.

Yes. Say no more now; here comes M. le
Cure. Perhaps I will tell you more tomorrow.'

It was necessary to stop and speak to
M. le Cure, who smiled welcome all over his
sturdy brown face.

You had my letter ?' said the Marquis.

Certainly, monsieur ; I was expecting it.
At nine o'clock tomorrow, then.'

If you please. And you will stay to
breakfast with us, M. le Cure ?'

With pleasure, monsieur.'

There were plenty more greetings as they
drove through the village : the inn-keeper,
standing at his door under his sign of Le
Corbeau Blanc ; the bricklayer, the blacksmith,
working at their trades in the street.
The Marquis's hat was constantly off to
these and others, and to the women carrying
home loaves from the baker or returning
wearily from their washing on the river
brink ; all these looked up smilingly at the
little demoiselle and her father.

They all like you, papa,' she said, when
at last the bridge was crossed and they were
driving up the wild, untidy, overgrown old
avenue of the chateau.

They would have much more reason to
like M. Chocolat.'

Oh no,' answered the girl quickly ; ' you
know very well that the peasants never like
the bourgeoisie.'

20  2

Where did you get all your knowledge
of the world V he said.

Not at the convent, you imagine ? Bah !
one learns a good deal in life besides one's
lessons said Mdlle. Antoinette.

No doubt ; but it generally takes a little
time, and you are already as wise as your
grandmother. What a noise the dogs
make !'

 Ah, dear old Ponto, and Fido, and
Rataplan ! What joy to run about with
them again !' she cried ; and she was ready
to spring out of the dogcart before it
stopped.

Patience, mademoiselle ! a person of
your knowledge ' her father remonstrated.


Out of the dimness of the avenue they
came into a large court, covered with gravel,
and rather weedy. Down the two sides of

this court ran high white stone walls, their
ruinous state half hidden by the ivy that
clustered over them, and the great chestnut
and walnut trees that sheltered them. Each
wall ended in a round turret, white, with a
pointed grey roof, also half in ruins, and
overgrown with ivy. Across the upper side
of the square lay the house itself, mounted
on a high terrace, and evidently, by the
remains of old walls and foundations about
it, much smaller now than it had been informer
times. On the west side was the
great tower that commanded the valley 
white, square, and heavy, with windows here
and there. Below this, a long slated roof
with a ridge of twisted iron work ran along
to another 9avi7Zo?i to the east, smaller, and
more inhabited-looking. Then the line of
building was broken by an archway with a
tall iron gate, reached by a flight of steps,

and opening into some sort of garden or
2)laisance behind the chateau. These steps
led also to the door of the chapel, the
ancient stones and low vaulting of which
showed a greater age than that of the rest
of the building. Behind the chapel, to the
east, was the stable-yard, sheltered by great
trees ; and another high white archway led
into the yard belonging to a range of farm-buildings
; vast barns, with wine-cellars
underneath them ; cow-houses, piastres, a
duck-pond, more great walnut-trees stretching
their boughs across a scene of more than
Irish untidiness, with the low door and
windows of the farmer s house opening on a
grass-grown, uneven causeway, raised a few
inches above it all.

To the little Demoiselle de Montmirail,
this chateau was her beautiful old home, and
she would hardly even confess that it wanted

restoring. All the windows were unsheltered
to-day, the doors stood open, and two old
friends were waiting on the steps of the
terrace. Antoinette jumped down at once
into the arms of her old nurse, Suzanne,
whose husband, the old valet che chambre, as-disagreeable
as he was clever and faithful,
came forward with a stiff bow and a vinegar
smile to receive his master.

Come then, my child,' said Suzanne, and
with many loving and admiring remarks she
took her little lady into the house, a small
black-andaman terrier dancing joyfully round
them, while the dogs in the yard barked
their loudest.

Suzanne was a handsome, fat, comfortable
woman, with a smiling face and pleasant
dark eyes. Everyone under her charge
was in peace and in clover. She wore a
nice white cap with flying strings, a thick

blue linsey skirt, and a loose black jacket.
She and Antoinette hurried together into
the bare stone hall of the chateau, from
which a broad, shallow staircase of stone led
to the upper rooms.

The house was narrow in proportion to
its length and height, like all the houses of
its time, and the upper story had originally
consisted of large rooms opening one into
the other throughout the length of the
corps de logis. The great tower was
divided from the rest of the house by the
staircase, and its rooms had not been used
for some years. They had been put in
order and furnished for the young Marquise,
Antoinette's mother, but she had died when
her child was not more than two years old,
and her husband, living there very little,
had never used the tower rooms since. In
his father's time, the great inconvenient

rooms in the other part of the house had
been partitioned and made into smaller
ones, with a corridor running along behind
them.

The universal brick floors of earlier days
had also been changed for wooden ones ;
but all was now bare and shabby and
dilapidated ; and there certainly was nothing
lovable or attractive in the stern
old place, with its white walls two or three
yards thick, to explain Antoinette's affection
for it.

 Mademoiselle's own room is ready for
her,' said Suzanne, as her young mistress
sprang upstairs before her.

And certainly there was something very
cheerful in mademoiselle's own room. Its
high window looked out to the terrace,
where all the dogs were now jumping
round M. le Marquis ; it was papered

ceiling and all, with bright pink stripes ;
the curtains and cover of the bed were
also pink. There were gay rugs on the
floor, the chimney-piece had a smart clock,
and was also adorned with a variety of glass
and (diana which Suzanne had collected at
different fetes and offered to mademoiselle ;
there were little pictures on the walls, more
bright than beautiful, and by the bed hung
a branch of box, now very dead, which had
no doubt been blessed in church on Palm
Sunday. There were a few old red velvet
chairs, a little old chest of drawers, and an
arrangement for eau sucree.

Suzanne had taken great pains to make
this room what she thought her young
lady's room ought to be. Behind the
brass dogs on the hearth a bright wood
fire was burning.

Oh, Suzanne, how pretty it all is !' said



the child, and standing in the middle of the
floor, she made two or three little jumps in
the air. ' If papa would only restore the
house, and let us live here always ! I think
I have put it into his head, you know.'

Ah, dame ! that is good news indeed,
mademoiselle,' said Suzanne.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING A SONS. PRINTERS. Guildford

G., C. d: Co.

sis

P92G>r
V.2

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/redtowers02pric

ELEANOR C. PRICE

AUTHOR OF 'GERALD,' 'ALEXIA,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

gtxbUshers in tbinarg to etr ajests the (Quin


[All rights reserved]

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

PART I.

{ContiiU'.ed.)

CHAPTER

XIII. A SPOILT CHILD

PAGE


XIV. THE HOTEL DES DEUX Frees - - - 30

XV. AN OLD FRIEND AND A NEW SLAVE - - 59

XVI. DI AND HER MASTER - - . - - 88

Evil A LETTER FROM CELIA - - - - 113

XVIII. ' HE IS ONE OF THOSE WHO ARE BEAUTIFUL

AND HAPPY' - - - - - - 141

XIX. AN EVENING WITH MADAME DE Errand - 166
XX. * A GREY DISCOURAGED SKY OVERHEAD, THE

SHORT LAST DAYLIGHT OF DECEMBER' - 192

PART II.

CHAPTER

I. THE hero's return -
IL MADAME DE MONTMIRAIL -

III. THE ENGLISH COUSIN -

IV. A PILGRIM IN TOURAINE -
V. 'MOIS DE MARIE'

PAGE

- 225

- 240

- 259

- 278

- 292

PAET I.

continued.)

CHAPTER XIII.

A SPOILT CHILD.

'That evening  that was the last happy
evening of my Hfe,' said Antoinette, long
after, to somebody who was very fond of
her.

Don't say that, dear,' said her friend.

I mean  till now,' she said, and no one
could be dissatisfied with the answer.

VOL. II. 21

In those days no child of ten could be
more thoroughly childish than she, though
even then she had her full share of womanly
good sense and reasonableness. And in
after days, in hours that would have tried
some natures sorely, she did not lose much
of her child-likeness, or of her good sense;
but then the possibilities of the future had
not even occurred to her ; when she left her
reverend mothers that day, and came to La
Tour Blanche with her father, it was all to
her  the wild freshness of morning.' Her
father, Suzanne, and her old home  what
more was wanted to make life perfect ?
That was indeed a happy evening, and fora
finishing touch, just at sunset, beautiful
gleams of yellow light darted out from
under the thick curtain of grey clouds, and
laid soft shadows all about the old precincts
of the chateau, and gave a topaz shine to

the west windows of the tower. Mdlle.
Antoinette could have believed that they
were lighted up from inside, as she saw
them from the plantation below. Suzanne
did not like her to say that, and crossed
herself at the notion.

There was really a good deal to do that
evening. One must just poke one's head
into every room in the house, however
dark, damp, or unfurnished, to see whether
there were any alterations ; and one must
go into the kitchen, where there were
really a row of new copper pans, and some
very nice bunches of herbs hanging up to
dry, and a smiling young cook, imported
from Saint-Bernard for the occasion, and
two or three old friends in sabots and blue
gowns and cotton caps, looking in with
rugged old brown faces to see mademoiselle.
Then out at the back, where the grass grew

212

long and wild in the old complaisance, there
were chickens and geese to be visited, and
away along a shady walk there was Antoinette's
own garden, which wanted so much
digging and arranging that it must be put
oiF till tomorrow. Then it was most
necessary to inspect the chapel, which
Suzanne had already decorated for Mass
tomorrow morning. In fact, all the young
chatelaines work was hardly done when
it was time to brush her curls for dinner,
and tie them round with a blue ribbon,
and array her small person in a large white
pinafore. Then she danced downstairs into
the salon, sparkling with life and beauty
and fun, to join her father, who had been
inspecting on his own account; and together
they went into the brown polished diningroom,
where the little cook from Saint-bernard
sent them in a dinner worthy of

Paris, and old Pierre waited on them, very
much to his own satisfaction. If Antoinette
had not been quite so happy herself, she
miofht have noticed that her father was a
little silent : but that evening nothing
troubled her. Suzanne had something
to say to Pierre in the pantry,
when she was helping him to put the things
away after dinner.

My friend,' said she,  I was down in
the new wood with mademoiselle this evening,
and the windows of the apartment of
Madame la Marquise were illuminated.'

What are you talking about V said
Pierre, contemptuous.

You laugh, and you tell me it is the
sun, no doubt. Men like you always do.
The child said they looked as if they were
lighted from inside, and so they did. And
you won't pretend to forget when they were

lighted up inside, and you and I saw them
from the end of the avenue, when we had
run down to look at the triumphal arch.
And we had only just time to get back,
to receive our young mistress, and all her
windows were lighted up to welcome her.
Fifteen years ago. Master Pierre. We were
younger then than we are now, and I had
not done the foolishness of marrying you.'

Bah I what does the woman mean !'
Pierre tried to keep up his scornful airs,
but failed a little before the solemn sincerity
of his wife's eyes.  Well, well,' he
said, * I suppose you take it for a sign, do
you, that M. le Marquis is going to be
married again.'

'Dame ! Don't talk so loud.'
I'm whispering. Well  and if he is ?'
Mon Dieu ! you don't think it likely, do
you V

Stranger things might happen said
Pierre, with the air of an oracle. ' I may
tell you, I needed no illumination to put it
into my head. He has been walking allover
the place, and finding fault with things
he never noticed before. Poniard told
me so. He is either going to marry or
to sell the place.'

Sell it ! Impossible !'

Va /' said Pierre. ' Has that woman
made the coffee V

Under the great chimney of the salon a
fire of logs was flaming ; in the uncertain
light of this, and one dim lamp, the bare
old room looked its best. The Marquis
and his little daughter sat opposite to
each other in two high arm-chairs beside
the fire ; here and there, above their heads,
a point of colour or tarnished gilding shone
out from the tall emblazoned chimney-piece.

All the ceiling was crossed by dark
painted beams ; the walls were also painted,
and hung with a few dismal old pictures ;
and by this light one did not see the
yawning cracks and blisters in the faded
paint, or the great damp stains on the
wall.

M. de Montmirail was trying to read the
Gaulois by the combined light of fire and
lamp, which shone very becomingly on his
handsome fair head, but was hardly satisfactory
in the matter of reading. Antoinette
sat smiling and looking about her. The
chair was much too high for her, and her
little feet were cocked up on a footstool ;
she looked at them, then at the fire, then
round the room, and then settled down into
a prolonged gaze at her father, who presently
threw the paper aside with an impatient
exclamation :

 Pierre might have done something better
for us in the way of Hight,' he said.

 Never mind, papa : talk to me said
Antoinette.

 What do you want to talk about,
chatterton ? You look very dignified in
that large chair. Madame de Cernay will
be quite impressed, if you sit up like that
to entertain her tomorrow.'

I don't think I care for Madame de
Cernay ; not passionately, at least.'

Not passionately,' he repeated, smiling.
Who cares passionately for anybody or
anything ? Not you or I. You need not
use such strong words, petite.'

Pardon !' said Antoinette quickly. ' I
care passionately for this place, and for you,
and for living here with you. The word is
not too strong for me. To me it is ravissant,
ravissant to the very utmost height.

to sit here in this chair and see you in
that one. It is all in life that is most
exquisite.'

Merci, petite,' he said, smiling, and very
gently ; but there was some shadow of trouble
in his eyes.

Yes, an evening like this is all right ; it
is perfection ; it is what ought always to
be,' the girl went on. ' Do you know,
papa, once upon a time I had a great
fear.'

What was it ?' he asked, looking up
quickly.

Don't be frightened, dearest,' she said.
It is long ago now. It was when you were
staying in England with our cousins. You
said in your letters that you Hked England
so much, and all the people there. I was
afraid that you would wish to live in England
; and I told grand mamma, and she

was a little afraid too. But she said England
was really so terrible that she could not believe
it ; only to be sure she thought that
you had little eccentric fancies sometimes,
dear papa.'

'It is a charming country, and I met
charming people there,' said the Marquis.
I should like to take you there some day
for a visit. You can talk English a little,
and Lady Lefroy would be very kind to you.
But as to living there  no, one is best in
one's own country.'

Do you remember the little Englishman
whose name was Romaine, who spent Sunday
with you on a hill ?'

The Marquis laughed. ' Of course I remember
him. He was a very nice fellow.
But why do you call him '' little" ? He was
nearly as tall as I am.'

Is it possible ? Grandmamma and I made

a picture of you walking side by side, and he
was very much the smallest.'

 You never showed me that work of art,
or I could have corrected you.'

It was not worth while. Will you ask
that Englishman to stay with you, when the
house is restored, and we are living here
together V

Why ? Do you want to see him ?'

Of course I want to see him. I want
to like everybody you like. And I think
we agree very well, for I know you like
M. de Cernay better than madame, just as
I do. And I can never go to England, because
of that dreadful sea. Oh, I should
die of fear !'

 Let us hope that some day you will find
a little courage,' said M. de Montmirail.

He was certainly unlike himself that evening,
a little disturbed from his usual frank

placidity. His talk with Antoinette had
lost something of its old intimate charm ;
the touch of perfect sympathy and mutual
understandings was somehow absent, though
she was not aware of it : she idolized him far
too thoroughly to be critical.

He presently got up, and walked along the
room two or three times, from the door into
the hall to the door into the dining-room.

o

Antoinette watched him silently for a minute
or two, and then sprang from her chair and
joined him.

Why do you march up and down V she
said, ' and what are you thinking about ? I
must march with you, and you must tell me.'

Achille smiled, and took one more turn
with the small hand in his arm. He could
not tell her what he was thinking of: no,
not that evening ; every word the child said
made it harder.

Come, let us play a game of tric-trac,' he
said.  And then, mademoiselle, you must
go to bed. What will your grandmother say,
if you don't have your proper sleep at La
Tour Blanche ? And she will find it out at
the first glance. As for me, I shall never
hear the end of it.'

It was the custom at La Tour Blanche
for the Cure of the village to celebrate Mass,
once a year, in the chapel at the chateau ;
the day was a day in November, the anniversary
of the last Marquis's death. It was,
therefore, with this service for the repose of
her grandfather's soul that little Antoinette
de Montmirail began the next day.

Her father made a point of being there
every year, and she had often been with him ;
but never, she thought, had the solemnity of
the service been so real to her as on that
morning. Her father was always a goodman,

and a good Catholic ; perhaps it was
because she was older, and more able to
understand things, but she felt that day, as
she knelt beside him, as if his devotion was
deeper than she had ever known it before.
It was indeed happiness to kneel beside
him, even at such a sad service as this ;
to feel that she belonged to him just as he
belonged to the dear grandfather who wa
dead.

People who were at all dilettante in religion
might have been distressed by the
rough, inharmonious tones of the good Cure's
voice, which suited ill with his vestments of
black velvet and silver lace. The blue blouse
and corduroy trousers of his acolyte were
also a little out of keeping : but neither
M. de Montmirail, his daughter, nor the
servants who knelt behind them in the little
old vaulted chapel were disposed to be at all

-critical on these subjects. Their religion was
too much a part of their Hfe to be the least
troublesome, or anything but simple.

The Mass was said, the duty was done,
and that was enough for them. And all
the time, a background to the Cure's chanting,
a thick, dark November rain descended
steadily, running in a stream down the stone
steps outside, and making its way to lie in
little pools under the rugged old chapel
door.

When Mass was over, Mdlle. Antoinette
darted across the archway and danced into
the kitchen, where Suzanne made her sit
down by the stove, and took her wet shoes
off. Several attractive pots were stewing
on the stove, with a view to the breakfast of
monsieur and mademoiselle, also of M. le
Cure, and of Monsieur and Madame de
Cernay, if the day was not too wet for them.



In the meanwhile the Cure, who had tucked
up his soutane, and carried a large umbrella,
was talking to M. de Montmirail over a
comfortable blaze in the salon. The cracked
and discoloured paint, the damp with which
the walls were stained, the rickety windows,
the faded, heavy, ugly furniture, the absence
of curtains, porters, tapestries, comfort or
luxury of any kind, all were far more sadly
conspicuous now than in the evening ; and
Madame de Cernay, who drove up cheerfully
with her husband in a small omnibus through
all the rain, threw up her hands and screamed
with laughter when M. de Montmirail smilingly
welcomed her to his ruin.

Ruin indeed, my dear Marquis !' she cried.
We must take this into our calculations very
carefully.'

But if Madame de Cernay was uncomplimentary
towards the old house, she took a

VOL. II. 2 2

l

very different tone with regard to Antoinette,
who had grown to perfection since she last
saw her. Ma belle  mon ange,' were amongst
her mildest expressions ; and the child thus
treated began to think that, after all, Madame
de Cernay was very agreeable. No wonder
that everyone thought and said so.

At least,' said Antoinette afterwards,  I
liked her when she was there, praising me.
But when she was gone, I did not much like
to think about her.'

Antoinette was all smiles, though she did
not talk much in the presence of these grownup
visitors. Madame de Cernay did most
of the talking at breakfast, though the Cure
made manful efforts to take his share, and
argued with her on every subject. She was
a fine, pleasant-looking woman, tall and large,
with a pretty complexion ; altogether she
and her ugly little husband were curiously

matched, except in manners, both being
very demonstrative and very noisy. They
and his other friends often accused Achille
de Montmirail of being as quiet as an
Englishman.

After breakfast the rain went on pouring
in steady sheets. M. le Cure again tucked
up his soutane, and started off down the
avenue with his large umbrella. M. de
Montmirail and his friend went to smoke in
the library, a dilapidated old room in the
west tower. Before M. de Cernay left the
salon, he made all sorts of telegraphic signs
to his wife, who responded in the same way.
Antoinette could hardly help laughing ; the
dear Baron looked so very like a monkey.

Pierre came in with a fresh log for the
fire, which blazed cheerfully up the wide
chimney. Madame de Cernay sat in the
arose arm-chair where M. de Montmirail

222

had sat last night, put her feet on a footstool,
and held up the Gaulois carefully fora
screen, as there were no screens in this
half-furnished old house.

Now, Antoinette, entertain me  amuse
me, my sweet child,' she said. ' Your poor
little Cure proses terribly ; he thinks himself
as wise as Solomon. Don't sit there, my
angel ; you will burn your cheeks,' as Antoinette
sat down in front of the fire.

One could not exactly place one's self in
the large chair opposite to Madame la
Baronne. So, after a moment's thought,
Antoinette fetched another, high-backed and
very uncomfortable, and placed it a little
way off, where she would both show proper
politeness and preserve her complexion.

Amuse me,' said Madame de Cernay
again ; and her eyes wandered round the
room with a considering look.

Shall I tell you about the Convent,
madame ?' said Antoinette. * I made papa
laugh yesterday with some of my stories

Ah, no, no !' said Madame de Cernay.
No doubt the Convent is entrancing, and
you are all very good there. When I was
at the Convent I was very wicked. I could
tell you stories, but I won't, so don't ask me.
I don't want to hear about other people, my
little anofel, but about yourself. You are
growing up now, and you must have a
great many wishes. Tell me all about
them.'

Antoinette folded her arms and looked
grave.

Madame de Cernay sincerely thought that
it was a very sweet and pretty little face,
only a shade too earnest ; perhaps the girl
might be inclined to take life too seriously.
That was a fault of dear Achille, in spite

of all his sweet temper and easy good-nature.


It appeared that Antoinette had not many-wishes.
They all resolved themselves into
two : that La Tour Blanche might be restored
; and that she might live there with
her father.

Ah, mon Dieu ! Magnifique ! I never
heard anything more excellent,' cried Madame
de Cernay, in high approval. * And does
your dear father know of these pretty little
wishes ? Because I feel sure they must
charm him beyond everything.'

Oh yes, madame. He has known for a
long time, and we were talking about them
again yesterday.'

Charming, charming !'

Oh yes, one can make the most glorious
plans ; only one must be reasonable,' said
Antoinette with a little sigh. 'Where is

the money to come from ? Papa is not rich
enough to restore the chateau, and he does
not think we can Hve here as it is, though I
do. Yesterday he talked about selling it,
which would break all our hearts.'

Of course it would,' said the Baronne,
staring at her and nodding. * No, no ; he
will never sell it. He will do something
much pleasant for everybody. Did he talk
of any other plan ?'

 He said there might be a way. I did
not know what he meant. He said, perhaps
he would tell me to-day.'

Ah ! He thought you were old enough
to keep a secret, did he ? Bien, ma belle !
I think so too.'

What secret, madame V Antoinette
opened her large eyes very wide, and the
colour rose in her cheeks. Suddenly she
knew that something was going to happen.

something that would change one's Use  and
yet, what could it be ? Was it happiness or
sorrow ? Madame de Cernay was laughing ;
but she laughed at everything. At that
moment something forced into Antoinette's
mind the consciousness that her father had
been a little mysterious yesterday and this
morning  her father, who was generally as
open as the day. What could be going to
happen ? Was he going away anywhere to
make his fortune ? Had he got some appointment
somewhere ? Would she be
separated from him, perhaps for years ? Had
he brought her here to say good-bye to the
old home, till he could come back again with
money enough to restore it ?

Oh, he is going away !' she cried in
shrill agony, clasping her hands together.
Oh no, let him sell it to M. Chocolat !
That would be better than going away.

Madame, you will let me go and tell him so.
He is doings it for me, and I would rather
die than lose him.'

Stop ! stay here, my child !' exclaimed
Madame de Cernay. ' You are talking like
a little madwoman. Who said a word about
your father's going away ? He is going
nowhere but to Paris, as far as I know ;
and he will take you with him.'

Antoinette sat down again, comforted
for the moment. But she watched the
Baronne with a sort of nervous anxiety, and
the happy child-look had vanished from her
face.  I thought he was going away to get
some money,' she murmured.

No, no,' said Madame de Cernay, smiling.
 His friends have thought of a better plan
than that ; and I hope his charming little
daughter will be too reasonable to set herself
against it. It will be as good for her as for

him. She will have a happy, beautiful home,
and a friend who will love her, and take her
out into the world, and arrange her dress,
and in fact give the dear child everything
that she wants to make life perfect. She
loves her father, and she will see him entirely
happy with a companion who will adore him,
and with a fortune to do anything he pleases
to the old Tour Blanche. It will be one of
these days the most beautiful house in the
neighbourhood, and no doubt the most
agreeable. As Mdlle. de Montmirail grows

up '

Madame de Cernay went on very agreeably
with her oration thus far. She leaned
back in her chair, gently waving her newspaper
screen, and being satisfied that she
was breaking the news for M. de Montis
with the most considerate tenderness,
she let her eyes wander round the room as

she talked. But presently they fell on the
child's face, and she stopped suddenly.

Mon Dieu, Antoinette ! What is the
matter V she cried. Antoinette was deadly
pale : even her lips were white, and she was
struggling to speak. At first, she could
hardly utter a sound ; then she screamed
out, ' Papa !' and the shrill agonized cry
must have pierced through walls, and
doors, for he came hurriedly into the
room a moment afterwards, and the child
flung herself into his arms in a wild passion
of crying. With many caressing words he
lifted her up, and absolutely carried her
away, leaving Monsieur and Madame de
Cernay to express their sentiments to each
other.

These sentiments were hardly well defined
at once ; but they found a very decided
voice later, when the Marquis's two friends

were driving back in their omnibus to
Saint-Bernard through the still pouring
rain.

I certainly would not be her stepmother,
the spoilt child !' cried Madame de Cernay,
with shrieks of laughter.

She has gained her point ; she will not
have a stepmother at all,' said the Baron.
I call his weakness scandalous. Did you
understand ? He wishes to put an end at
once to all negotiations. Says his  chief
object was the good of his child, and he will
not make her miserable. On my faith, that
child has something to answer for. He is
too amiable, that dear Achille ; absolutely
soft, ridiculous, insane, absurd. To let the
fancies of a child overturn family arrangements
in that sort of way ! Best assailant
! Better marry ten wives than make
one's self a slave to a girl of fourteen. Good

heavens ! that a friend of mine should be
such a fool !'

M. de Cernay gnashed his teeth, clenched
his fist, and thumped on the cushion.

Well, our little plan is spoilt, that is all,'
said his wife, ' for my aunt had a better
match in view for Beatrice, and only listened
to this to please me. Well, we shall see.
Madame the mother-in-law may interfere,
and bring la petite to her senses. I know
she wishes for more money in the family.
It is a joke, indeed, if a poor man can't
marry again, because his little daughter
says no.'

THE HOTEL DES DEUX Frees.

There is a corner of Paris which few English
know, except those who have lived there
long, or by some other means know the best
of it. This corner is quiet, and yet actually
the height of fashion, being in the same
quarter as the hotels of the greatest old
families. These families, Catholic, Legitimist,
and many of them immensely rich,
are and must be at the head of France
socially, though of course politically they
have no power. And their social power
they treat with so much indifference, that

they are being deprived of it in great
measure by the Jews, whose influence
predominates in Paris now. But a few
years ago these people were more consistent
; and those great hotels of the
Faubourg, with their high white gates
and endless rows of shutters, were inhabited
by some of the most really noblemen
and women in Europe. The mad rush
after pleasure, the worship of money, were
not quite what they are now ; aristocrats,
with many faults, to be sure, seemed better
to deserve their name.

The Rue Sainte-mosque was a short and
quiet street, leading from a street chiefly
made up of these great houses, with a few
dignified shops here and there, to a boulevard
opening on some old public gardens
with large trees and fountains, certainly the
quietest, perhaps in summer the most beautiful

of the gardens of Paris. The Jardin
Sainte-mosque had once belonged to a
large convent, which had given its name
to the street and neighbourhood. The
Convent itself still existed, very much
reduced, hidden behind towering walls at
the garden end of the street. It was rich,
and at that time not persecuted, and a
favourite school for the young girls of the
Faubourg. Next door to the Convent, at
the end of its long garden wall, was a very
pretty house, the Hotel Sainte-mosque,
belonging to the Convent, but lived in for
years by the Vicomtesse de Ferrand. This
house also had a garden ; and one more
private house brought the little street to
an end. A very large and handsome house,
belonging to an old family, with its stables
and gardens, had originally filled up the
other side of the street. But about forty

years ago, the owner having ruined himself,
the house was sold. The Convent tried to
buy it, but did not bid high enough, and it
fell into the hands of two brothers, who had
made their fortune as the chief barbers of
the Faubourg. They turned it into an
hotel in the modern sense of the word ;
and ever since the Hotel des Deux Frees,
as they called it, in the quiet little Rue
Sainte-mosque, had kept up its character
as the best hotel in Paris for French people.
Many people who had no house or apartment
of their own in Paris lived there for
the season. It was conveniently near their
friends, and not far from anything ; it was
not dear, and it was supremely comfortable.

The present proprietor was a middle-aged
man, son of one of the founders. He kept
up the traditions of his family by being a
royalist and a good Christian. No atheism

VOL. II. 23

or republicanism was to be met \4th in the
Hotel des Deux Freres, even among the
servants, at least with the knowledge of M.
Dupont or his excellent wife.

M. Dupont did not advertise his hotel,
and it was by the merest chance that any
casual travellers found their way there. He
did not want them ; he was well off abbacy,
and preferred knowing who his customers
were, and answering for their respectability.
Xo snobs, no Jews, no pa ventis, if possible,
at the Hotel des Deux Freres. He did not
ware much for foreign nobility, who were
very often too ill-conducted for him ; but
luckily they found his establishment too
quiet to suit their taste. He had a few
English customers of old standing, dignified
people, yet cosmopolitan, connected with
embassies, equally well known in English
and French society ; related, perhaps, to

families in the Faubourg. And a few
Englishwomen less great in position had
by some means found out the good
qualities of M. Dupont's hotel, and were
always kindly welcomed by him. He, like
his father and uncle before him, had a keen
eye for the sort of person who would do him
credit ; for other people, with all the politeness
in the world, the hotel was full to overflowing.
Mrs. Percival had been there in
her young days with her mother, and her
poor sister, Mrs. Darrell ; since then she had
gone there rather often, with or without the
Canon, whenever it was absolutely necessary
to do a Httle shopping in Paris.

This year, the beginning of December
found Mrs. Percival at the Hotel des
Deux Freres, with Paul and Celia. She
was deeply engaged with milliners and
dressmakers, and to these she gave all

23  2

her time and thoughts. Celia, to Paul's
happiness, did not think it necessary to
show an equal devotion. She was obliged,
of course, to give up a certain amount of
time, and in that time she took a real and
rather impatient interest in the plans and
doings of her couriers ; but stuffs, draperies,
trimmings, once out of sight, seemed to be
out of mind with her, and so completely that
her aunt was sometimes a little bit provoked
by her indifference. What was the use
of bringing Celia to Paris for shopping, if
she pretended to think the shops a bore ! 
these charming shops, which in this winter
season were more brilliantly distracting than
ever. There would be plenty of time in the
future for walking and driving: about with
Paul. It was rather too absurd, for instance,
that some silly plan for hearing music in a
distant church should hinder Celia from

making an appointment with Madame
Fripon.

After all, however, Mrs. Percival was not
seriously angry. She was too thoroughly
well occupied and amused for that. She
loved shopping; she could shop from morning
till night without any weariness, and with the
fullest confidence in her own taste. She was
also very much pleased with herself for the
generous way in which she was behaving
to Celia ; and Colonel Ward's secret, which
she kept religiously, was an unfailing source
of serene satisfaction. Besides, she was
truly glad that Paul should be happy,
even if Celia did neglect immediate duties
for him. It was a new development in Celia,
this kind of revolt against things practical.
A little inconvenient, certainly, coming at
this moment ; and perhaps, for the sake of
the shopping, it would have been better if

Paul had stayed in England. But after all
it did not matter much.

Mrs. Percival was quite artificial enough
to agree with the French writer who talks
so enthusiastically of Paris in winter.  Pour
le voir beau, heureux, opulent, ce Paris du
diable, il faut le regarder vivre sous un ciel
bas, aloud de neige. La nature est pour
ainsi dire absente du tableau. Ni vent, ni
soleil. Juste assez de lumiere pour que les
couleurs les plus effaces, les moindres reflets
prennent une valeur admirable, depuis les
tons gris roux des monuments, jusqu'aux
perles de jais qui constituent une toilette de
femme.'

This was exactly Paris in the first days
of that December, when the marriage arranged
between Paul Romaine and Celia
Darrell was not much more than a month
away. ' Paris du diable !' Nobody could

have suggested that the doings of Mrs.
Percival and her young people were diaboHcy
except so far as all unreality belongs to the
devil's kingdom ; and the unreality, in this
ease, belonged to Celia alone.

She was not happy, but she was in curiously
high spirits, carried away by the
strange excitement of that dim yet brilliant
city, without wind or sun. It was easy to
hurry through the days here, without the
solemn influences of nature to brings one to
one's self, the varying clouds, the sunsets,
the moaning pine woods about Red Towers,
Here the days and nights flew by Hke
scenes in a play, and Celia hardly knew how
they were flying.

A sort of fatalism seemed to have taken
possession of her, in which her only conscious
wish was to hurry on the time, to
have her marriage over, and everything

made certain. But these feelings did not
appear to her friends, who only saY that
she was looking brilliant, her eyes deep blue,
a ready laugh always on her lips. She had
never in her life been so charming to Paul,
who felt himself quite repaid now for any
little coldness earlier in the autumn. It
was almost embarrassing, though the delight
of it was beyond words, to find himself suddenly
necessary to Celia, so that she would
go nowhere and do nothing without him.
His silent devotion was almost overwhelmed
by the sudden difficulty of finding words.
The sunshine in which he now lived, under
that low grey sky of Paris, was enough to
burn out of his memory all past doubts, all
need of trust and patience in the days gone

by.

One afternoon, just as twilight was beginning
to close in on a dismal day of fog

and rain, Mrs. Percival and her maid drove
into the courtyard of the hotel, on their
return from a long day's shopping. The
hotel was already lighted ujd, and looked
delightfully gay and comfortable ; somebody
was playing wild valse music in the salon,
and the waiter said that monsieur and
mademoiselle had come in some time ago.
There was a telegram waiting for monsieur
in the bureau, he went on to say, and after
he got it, he and mademoiselle went into
the salon for a few minutes ; then mademoiselle
went upstairs alone. As far as the
waiter knew, madame would find monsieur
still in the salon.

Mrs. Percival looked into the salon ,
but saw nothing of Paul. The
valse seemed to grow madder every moment ;
it was played by a little man with a pale
face and flying hair. A few people were

scattered about the room, talking and listening
: one young man was trying to persuade
a girl to dance with him ; it was indeed
almost impossible to keep still in that whirl
of sound. Mrs. Percival had not listened
with any extraordinary interest to what the
waiter told her. Paul often had telegrams
from his agent, or from the upholsterer
who was doing: the house. Mrs. Percival
climbed slowly upstairs  M. Dupont was
old-fashioned and disliked lifts  till she came
to Celia's door, where she knocked and went
in. At first the lights and shadows in the
room flickered so that she hardly saw Celia*
A small wood-fire was flaming fitfully on the
hearth ; beyond it, close to the window,
Celia was sitting in a red velvet arm-chair.
A gilt clock was ticking on the mantelpiece
; the floor, in deference to English
ideas, was covered with red and yellow carpet.

and on it, the chairs, and the marble-topped
furniture, Celia's purchases, clothes, luggage,
were thrown about indiscriminately. She sat
there with writing things in her lap ; as her
aunt came in, she shut her blotting-case, and
put down her 23en and ink on a chair.

Aunt Flo, what an age you have been !'
she said. ' Do leave the door a little open ;
that jolly valse makes one want to dance
one's life away.'

But Mrs. Percival shut the door in spite
of this.

If you feel like that, you had better go
down into the salon,' she said. ' I'm tired,
and it distracts my head.'

Sit down, then, and tell me all about
everything,' said Celia.

She did not move from her own chair,
but sat with her face turned to the window
looking out into the deepening twilight.

watching the opposite house, whose windows
began to be ht uj) one by one. Mrs. Percival
took off her furs, warmed her feet, and
gave a vivid account of her day's doings, to
which it seemed that Celia was listening
intently enough, for she asked a shrewd
question or made a quick remark now and
then.

 And what have you been doing all the
afternoon, may I ask ?' said Mrs. Percival
at last, remembering to be a little injured.
It is all very fine, my poking about everywhere
with Timms, and ordering all these
things, which are your business after all,
while you do nothing but play about and
amuse yourself.'

Now don't grumble,' said Celia coolly,
because you know you love and adore
shopping, and I should only be in your
wav.'

No. Paul might be, but not you. I
don't say much, because of Paul. I am
doing all this for his sake, not for yours,
because I like to see the poor boy so perfectly
happy.'

Very well ; very nice of you,' said Celia ;
but her voice was a little discontented.  I
rather wished I was with you this afternoon,'
she went on.  I have been sitting at this
window for the last hour, certainly, with
nothing to amuse me but Madame de Ferrand
and her friends. I wonder if she knows
what a watch M. Dupont's people can keep
upon her from this window. I can see allover
her garden, as there are no leaves, and
into her courtyard, and I can even see her
going up her pretty old stairs, and along the
gallery, and looking out of the windows.
She looks very old, but she walks so nicely,
a graceful little old thing. The little girl

who is with her must be her grandchild, I
think : about eleven, perhaps  but I don't
know, she may be older, only she jumps and
dances about like a small child, and wears
a large pinafore. And to-day there has
been another arrival. Such a handsome
man !'

What very good eyes you have !' said
Mrs. Percival, laughing.

Oh yes, of course. I saw him drive up,
and then there was such a bustle, and the
old lady came tripping out on the steps, and
the little girl raced across the court and
jumped straight into his arms. Then they
both tore across to the old madame, and he
first kissed her hand, as if she was a little
old Queen, and she kissed him on both
cheeks, and they all screamed and talked at
once, and the child danced a war-dance round
them. He was certainly the best-looking

Frenchman I have seen ; fahr and very tall,
and a good figure.'

Vein amusing,' said Mrs. Percival. ' And
where is Paul all this time ?'

I don't know. You didn't meet him ?
He talked of going to look for you ; but it
seemed rather hopeless, for nobody had a
very clear notion where you where gone.'

To look for me ! How absurd ! I have
seen nothing of him, of course. By-the-bye,
Jules told me he had had a telegram.
I hope it was nothing tiresome.'

Oh, tiresome, yes  a horrid bother,' said
Celia, still looking out of the window. ' At
least, he is making it so. I think he is
behaving rather stupidly. I am a little bit
angry with him, to tell you the truth.'

Really ! Why ? What was it ?'

He is going off to-night. I don't want
him to go. I really can't see the necessity

for making such a dreadful fuss. We shall
not be here many days longer, and if he
was actually wanted, of course they would
have asked him to come. As to his duty,
I think his duty is to stay with me, if I
want him, and I do. He had better not
go. I have told him I won't answer for
what may happen. The next thing will
be that  that everything will be put off,

and then I don't quite know However,

if Paul cares for me as much as he pretends,
he will do what I wish. I have told him,
Aunt Flo, and you may tell him the same.'

Tell him what ? What are you talking
about ? Going to-night ! Why, what has
happened ?' cried Mrs. Percival.

She sat still in her chair, thunderstruck.
This conclusion to all Celici's objectless
chatter about her opposite neighbours was
so strange, so utterly unexpected, that she

could hardly believe her ears. She waited
for half a minute, frowning and amazed ;
then she started up, crying out, ' Explain,
Celia ! How can I possibly know what
you mean ?' and came quickly across to
the window, where her niece was sitting
motionless.

Well, Aunt Flo, I know you will think
me very heartless and very horrid,' said
Celia, and she slowly turned her pretty
head, as it lay against the back of her chair,
so that she could look Mrs. Percival straight
in the face. ' The telegram was from some
doctor,' she said.  Paul knows him : I
don't. It was about Colonel Ward,
'colonel Ward is ill. How long will you
be away ?" That was the whole of it.
Now, why couldn't Paul telegraph that he
would be back in ten days, like a reasonable
being ? There was not a word about-vol.

II. 24

danger. Instead of that, almost without
listening to me, he telegraphs, " Shall be at
Holm tomorrow." '

I don't see how Paul could possibly do
anything else,' said Mrs. Percival.  You
forget, Paul is like a son to him. He
wants to see him, no doubt ; and it is just
like his unselfishness, dear old man, not to
ask him to come back at once. I am not
sure that we ought not all to go. I must
ask Paul what he thinks.'

 Oh no, no !' said Celia, with a sudden
flush. ' If we go, we shall never come
back, and everything will go wrong, and
everything will be put ofi; What good
could we do ? If Paul must go, let him
go for two or three days, and come back
to me here. The Colonel can't be very ill ;
impossible. Paul confesses that he has
always been as strong as a horse. It is

some nonsense of that stupid, officious,
meddling doctor

Well, anyhow, Paul is right,' said Mrs.
Percival. ' And Celia, some day you will
agree with me. Yes, he is right to go for
worldly reasons, as well as for others.'

 Paul never thought of anything of that
kind,' said Celia. ' It is only his obstinate
affection for that tiresome old man ; and,
after all, he must have made his will ages
ago. Really, the future sometimes makes
me tremble  that dear Colonel living at our
gates, and criticising everything we do.'

Mrs. Percival looked at Celia with a
curious expression.

Don't say any more,' she said. ' You
may be sorry some day. I must confess I
should be very angry with you now, if I
was not rather glad to find that you are in
love with Paul.'

24  2

Celia stared. Her aunt said no more,
but went away and left her.

 In love with Paul !' the girl repeated to
herself ; and then she began to laugh.

She took a letter out of her pocket and
looked at it  a worn letter, crumpled and
frayed at the edges.

What a bore it is !' she said. ' I suppose
I am rather unhappy. Certainly I am a
donkey. For even if I could change things
now, I don t believe I would. But I'm not
in love with Paul, dear Aunt Flo ; only it is
too stupid of him to go away now, because
I don't mind his being in love with me.
Perhaps I don't care much for anything
or anybody  except having everything I
want, and  this horrid letter. What's the
use of keeping it, by-the-bye ? It's
dangerous  and I know it well enough to
answer it, if I haven't done that already.

Oh, Vincent, I wish you had let me
alone !'

Then she took a written sheet of paper
from her blotting-case, and read it through
with smiling mouth and eyes.

too silly to send, I'm afraid. But I'll
keep it a day or two. Is that the bell at
Sainte-mosque ? I wonder if the nuns
would sing me into a good temper. I hate
this  and I must make up with that silly
boy, and let him go to his boring old
Colonel in peace.'

She got up and pulled the window open.
It had stopped raining, and was not yet
dark. In the opposite house she could
see the little dark figure of Madame de
F errand, stepping along through her glazed
gallery, followed by her maid with a large
cloak. No doubt she was going to Benediction
at Sainte-mosque. The Convent

church was a favourite resort of all the
ladies, great and small, in the neighbourhood
; and the fame of the nuns' singing
was spread all through Christian Paris.

'Yes; I'll go too,' Celia decided. 'I
wonder if I could anyhow make acquaintance
with those people. They would distract
me a little while Paul is away.'

She put on her prettiest hat, and wrapped
herself in furs. Before starting, full of a
new idea of being good, she stooped over
the fire and dropped Vincent's letter into it,
between two little red logs. It flamed up
instantly.

I wish I needn't give you any answer
but that, my friend,' she murmured, and
then she hurried away downstairs. On the
way she met her aunt's maid, looking tired
and sulky.

Oh, Timms,' she said, ' you may as well

tell my aunt that I have gone to church.
Just across the street  Sainte-mosque, the
Convent church, you know

Not alone, miss, at this time of day T
Timms remonstrated.

Yes, alone. Tell Mr. Lorraine he may
come and fetch me, if he likes.'

As Celia's luck would have it, just as she
came out of the hotel, a small door opened
in Madame de F errand's porte cohere
opposite, and she herself stepped into the
street, followed by the tall man and the
little girl. Celia crossed the street, and
followed them closely along the pavement
to the tall iron gates of the Convent, which
were standing a little open. A porter was
in charge, and a carriage had just set down
some ladies, who were walking up the flagged
path, under the shelter of high walls and
leafless trees, to the lighted church door.

The bell was still ringing, and music and
sweet odours came pouring out into the
dreary evening.

The gentleman who had walked those few
yards with Madame de F errand stopped at
the gates, and lingered there a moment,
lifting his hat as the old lady and the
child passed on. The light of the lamps
at the gate fell full upon his handsome
face, and on Celia's too, as she went by,
following the others.

Of course he looked at her, holding his
hat a moment longer while she passed
him ; and Celia was quite aware that his
glance was one of startled admiration ; she
was used to much broader stares, by this
time, from Parisians of every degree. But
she hurried on to the church door, and he
walked leisurely back to the Hotel Sainte-mosque.


At the door, having quickened her steps a
Httle, she overtook the old Vicomtesse and
the young girl, who raised a lovely little
dark face as the Englishwoman came up to
her. Celia could not help) smiling, as she
met those speaking eyes, and her smile
added enchantment to her beauty, more
brilliant than usual after the excitement she
had gone through. The French child, with
one quick glance at her grandmother's still
graceful back, dipped her finger in the holy
water and held it out to Celia, who touched
it and then crossed herself, knowing the
pretty friendly custom. Then they smiled
at each other again ; and then the nuns
in their grated chapel broke into strange
magic singing, with a sweetness intensely
sad :

'Lingering and wandering on, as loth to die.'
Thus in truth it was that Celia approached

RED TOWERS

her first acquaintance with the old Vicomtesse
de Ferrand, her granddaughter
Antoinette, and her son-in-law the Marquis
de Montmirail.

AN OLD FRIEND AND A NEW SLAVE.

Paul's troubled face, when Mrs. Percival
saw him, showed plainly enough how he felt
his first real difference with Celia.

 I've had a telegram,' he began quickly.
You know ? You have seen Celia V

I have just come from her. I am so
sorry, Paul. May I see the telegram ?'

He put it into her hand, and began walking
restlessly up and down the room, looking
on the Poor.

Dr. Graves : I have heard his name :

who is he ?' said Mrs. Percival after a
minute.

Don't you remember ? The doctor at
Wilford, who attended my father till we had
the London man.'

Not an alarmist V

Oh no ; a sensible old chap. Well, I
don't call that telegram alarmist, do you ?
He puts it as mildly as he can. Perhaps
you don't see what should make one anxious ?
I've never known the Colonel ill before ;
that's true : but to my mind that makes it
worse. People like him break down suddenly,
don't they ? Then, why should Graves have
telegraphed instead of writing ? The Colonel
must have let out that he wanted to see me.
In fact, I think I ought to go.'

As he said this, he looked up at her
almost wistfully. Evidently it was a terrible
business altogether ; he was torn between

love and loyalty to his old friend and the
passion for Celia which made it hard to
resist her least wish, harder still to go away
and leave her. Perhaps he was already half
regretting that he had telegraphed back in
such a hurry. But he told Mrs. Percival
nothing of all this, only lookinor- at her with
anxious, tired, puzzled eyes ; would she take
the same view as Celia ?

Of course you must go,' said Mrs. Percival
quietly. ' I have no doubt he wants
to see you ; why, he has nobody but you in
the world. I wish I could go too ; but that
would be foolish. I don't really feel anxious,
you know, Paul. He has always been so
strong, such a wiry sort of man ; I feel sure
he will rally from this, whatever it is. But
I have no doubt he is nervous about himself
Yes, you must go, and come back as soon as
you can, to take us home. Celia will miss

you dreadfully ; but I shall not. I shall be
much too busy. And there's one advantage
in your going away ; Celia will be able to
think a little about her shopping.'

She ended with her kindest and sweetest
smile.

Thanks ; you are very comforting said
Paul, but he sighed.

Now tell me about your plans said Mrs.
Percival. ' I suppose you are going by the
mail to-night. Have you told Jules ? Have
you ordered your dinner ? I had better
ring at once.'

Oh, lots of time for that,' said Paul.

Then he took another turn along the
room, and came back, and stood still before
-her.

Have you talked it over with Celia at
.all ?' he asked.

Not much,' said Mrs. Percival. ' I

came away to find you, almost directly she
told me.'

He looked on the floor silently. Mrs.
Percival felt angry with Celia, for she
understood his thoughts well ; but now" she
did not think it advisable to repeat the
encouraging remarks she had made at Holm.

These lovers must arrange their own
affairs now ; she thought she could trust
Celia for coming to her senses. She would
certainly have smiled if she could have
known what cruel words they were that went
on ringing in Paul's ears. ' You talk so
much about loving me. That's all very fine.
If you really loved me, you wouldn't go
away and leave me on such an excuse as
this.' Paul was very young, and quite inexperienced
; these words of Celia's tormented
him terribly. How was he to prove
his love ? How was he to show her that

she was mistaken ? It was a dreadful
difficulty. But he did not confide it to
Mrs. Percival.

Presently Timms came in, and brought
Celia's message, at which Paul's face
brightened a little ; though both he and
Mrs. Percival were startled at her having
escaped alone to the Convent. It was too
late to overtake her now ; but some time
before the service could be supposed to have
ended, Paul ran down the stairs on his way
to the church, stopping at the bureau to
give some order about his departure.

There were often people talking to Monsieur
or Madame Dupont in the bureau ; at this
moment a tall man stood there under the
gaslights, deeply engaged in turning over
the visitors' book in search of acquaintances.

Percival,' he said in a low tone to himself
' Pomaine  mais, Pomaine I  Madame,

who is he, this Monsieur Romaine you have
got staying in the hotel ? Is he English 
a fine young fellow with dark eyes ?'

Ma foi, monsieur,' cried Madame Dupont,
as she sat, fat and smiling, knitting in her
corner ; * you have only to turn your head
and see for yourself.'

So Achille de Montmirail turned round
and found himself face to face with his old
acquaintance, Paul Romaine. He seized
both his hands and wrung them with unfeigned
delight.

Going away to-night 1 Impossible ;
nothing of the kind 1 My dear friend, I
shall treat you as you would treat me if
you caught me in England. You shall
come and stay with me. I am living in
that house opposite with my mother-in-law,
the Vicomtesse de F errand. She will be
charmed to see you. You really must go ?

VOL. IT. 25

Well, at least, let me introduce you to her
and my daughter. You will dine with us ?
We will dine at six, if you please, and let
you go in time for your train. But how
much better if you would put off going till
tomorrow morning. The old friend is not
so very ill ? It is nothing immediate ?
Well, surely, if you are in London tomorrow
evening '

Thanks, you are most awfully good. I
wish I could dine with you, but I can't even
do that,' said Paul.

It was impossible not to respond to M.
de Montmirail's friendly warmth ; but surely
some evil genius had brought him on the
scene just then. If people do not appear
till too late, they had better not appear at
all. On this evening, of all evenings, M.
de Montmirail was most horribly in the
way. He might perhaps hinder the farewell

talk with Celia  the last attempt at an
understanding. She had given Paul the
opportunity by telling him to meet her at
the church door ; and as it was not raining,
Paul had already planned that he would ask
her to take a turn with him in the gardens
beyond. But with this friendly and hospitable
Frenchman on his hands, what was he
to do ? He was very glad to see him again ;
but he wished him in Siberia.

He murmured something about having
an appointment, as the Marquis took his
arm and walked with him across the courtyard.


 Certainly. I will not delay you. But
which way are you going ? I may as well
walk a few yards with you.'

Well, I am only going a few yards,' said
Paul in despair. ' I am going to meet a lady
at the church gate across there.'

25  2

Mais parfaitement f cried Achille. ' It
3 he very thing that I should do if I was
a good boy. My mother-in-law and my
daughter are there at this moment. I took
them there, and turned back from the gate.
Not from unbelief, as you know  you remember
our talk about these things  but
because Sainte-mosque is supposed to belong
to the ladies. Shall we walk there together,
then ? And now tell me, has anything happened
to you since we met in England ?
Nothing very important ? Nor to me. And
the old house in Surrey is just the same, is
it ? Some day, when I am in England again,
I mean to pay you a visit there.'

I hope you will,' said Paul. ' I shall
be very glad to see you. Just at present
my house is by way of being done up and
made very smart, because I am going to be
married.'

 I am rejoiced to hear that, my dear
friend,' said Achille cordially. ' I shall have
the pleasure, then, of paying my homage to
the charming Madame Romaine. Charming
I know she must be, for you are a man of
good taste. She is beautiful, too, no doubt ?
One of the belles of the Woolsborough
country V

Paul told him who she was, and also that
in a few minutes he hoped to introduce him
to her. He was beofinninof to feel a little
more cheerful. In M. de Montmirail's
atmosphere of sunny kindness everything
took a brighter hue ; and while Paul talked
to him of Celia, remembering what a real
right she had to be called charming, remembering,
too, the happy experiences of
the last few days, he began to think that
this shadow must certainly soon pass away.
After all, why was Celia angry at his going

to England ? Because she did not want him
to leave her ! Was that a state of things to
be complained of by Celia's lover ?

The service was not yet over, and Paul
walked up and down the Rue Sainte-mosque
several times with his friend, telling him all
his plans and doings, to which the Frenchman
listened with sympathetic ears. Naturally,
perhaps, Paul was rather wrapped up
in himself; he was also totally without
curiosity, which has its good side, like other
vices, and sometimes makes an important
element in friendship ; so that it hardly occurred
to him to ask M. de Montmirail anything:
of his own doings, or of his old house
down in the west. Achille, in his good-nature,
was not at all surprised at this onesided
state of things, perceiving that the
nice English boy was so deeply in love that
he could think of nothing else.

C'est amusant /' he thought to himself.
What a happy fellow !'

I am beginning to think,' he said presently,
' that I have already seen Mademoiselle
Darrell. A young lady came from
the Deux Freres and followed us as far as
the church ; she went in at the same time as
my mother-in-law and Antoinette. She was
quite a distinguished young lady, and as she
passed me, I thought she was amazingly
beautiful. I thought, too, that she was
English. I have seen the type there, though
never such a face as hers. And if you will
forgive me, no French demoiselle of such an
appearance would be allowed to make three
steps in Paris alone. Even with your English
ideas, my friend, you will see that it is hardly
to be advised. Madame her aunt, or at least
her bonne '

I ought to have been with her,' said

Paul quickly ; ' but I did not know she was
gone.'

You ! Oh well, yes, being English.
One forgets your ideas a little,' said the
Marquis, smiling. ' You think I was right,
then ? The English beauty that I saw was
Mademoiselle Darrell ?'

I think there is no doubt about it,' said
Paul.

Then let me say that you are a very
fortunate man.'

Achille de Montmirail looked at the young
fellow by his side with astonishment, mixed
with respect ; there might have been a little
envy too, if his character had been less
amiable.

Is the beauty in love with him, I
wonder ?' was the thought that flashed into
his mind.

Celia's looks had struck him even more

than he chose to say. He honestly Hked
Paul very much, and thought him superior
to most of the young Englishmen he had
met ; but somehow he did not seem the
right man to marry a woman with a face
like that.

She will lead you a life, my friend,' he
thought. * There is something of the devil
in that woman, or I am very much mistaken.
You are a poet, a dreamer, an enthusiast,
with the best heart in the world, and she
will take your heart in her hands and break
it for you. No, you are not the man for
her, and I doubt seriously if she does more
than tolerate you, even now. Her uncle and
aunt have made the marriage ; you are rich,
and she is probably poor. I see it all.
Well, your married life will not be a tame
business, as mine would have been, if la
jy elite had not interfered. And you may be

happy for six months, or perhaps a little
looser. After all, who knows ? The fame
may be worth the candle !'

So thought the Marquis while Paul talked
to him, and while they passed up and down the
pavement outside the lighted Convent gates.

Presently these were opened, carriages
drove up, the small congregation of ladies
came out of the church door and down the
narrow stony passage. Celia came among
the first, and Paul stepped forward to meet
her ; at the sight of her, his misgivings
suddenly returned. He did not know whether
she was still angry with him ; but she met
him with a smile.

So you came,* she Said in a low voice.
Have you been waiting long ? I thought
the service was o-oino- on till midnight ; but
the singing was divine. I wished you were
there.'

Didn't you know I should come V said
Paul.

How could I tell,' she said, still smiling,
when I had been so disagreeable ! Come,
what are we waiting for ?'

While these few words were passing between
them, M. de Montmirail had turned
aside for a moment to speak to some lady
he knew. But she was gone now, and he
came up to Paul and Celia. Madame de
Ferrand and Antoinette had not yet appeared.
Celia looked at him with astonishment.

M. de Montmirail would like to be introduced
to you,' said Paul. ' You know
how I hoped I might meet him again.'

 Oh yes, I am so glad,' said Celia. She
held out her hand to the Marquis, who
made her a very low bow, and just touched
the tips of her fingers with his own.

 Mademoiselle, it is the greatest honour

and pleasure. My mother-in-law, the Comtesse
de F errand, and my little daughter.
Ma mere, you remember hearing of my
English friend, M. Romaine. Let me present
him to you. I met him accidentally
half an hour ago at the Deux Freres. He
has told me his history, and has given me
the happiness of being acquainted with
Mademoiselle Darrell.'

It was not often, in Madame de Ferrand's
agreeable and benevolent life, that she found
herself hopelessly puzzled. Achille's English
friends and connections did not interest her
particularly, and among them she could not
recall the name of Romaine.

But under the lamp at the gate she saw
two young English people, looking, as far as
she could see, perfectly comme il faut, and
quite at home in the situation. Achille
seemed to be in raptures, and she always

made it a rule to be civil to his acquaintances.
It was nothing new for him to discover
hidden treasures at the Hotel des Deux
Freres. So she made a low curtsy and
several polite speeches, her sweet little pale
face looking very amiable, and trotted off
down the street with Celia by her side, while
Antoinette took her father's arm as he and
Paul followed.

Antoinette's bright eyes and quick ears
were everywhere. She was charmed to seethe
little Englishman at last, though certainly
it was true he was by no means little.
But she could not pay him quite so much
attention as if he had appeared alone, for the
prospect of really making acquaintance with
Celia was almost too entrancing to be real.
Wonderful castles were - suddenly built in
Antoinette's head, as she followed that
graceful figure down the street. It did

not at all occur to her young French mind
that Celia was Paul Romaine's fiancee  his
sister, she thought, not having realized the
difference of names.

They parted, with many politeness, at
the gate of the Hotel Sainte-mosque. The
ladies went in, and M. de Montmirail crossed
the road with Paul and Celia.

 Mademoiselle,' he said,  why do you let
him run away to England to-night ? It is
too mortifying for me, only to meet him and
lose him.'

I don't want him to go,' said Celia, in
her sweetest voice and manner. * But he
thinks it is his duty, and I suppose people
must do what they think is their duty,
monsieur. He has a dear old friend who
is ill, you see.'

What an angel she was, after all !

When M. de Montmirail was gone, with

many cm devoirs to Paul, and compliments
to Celia, they stood still for a minute in the
lighted courtyard, looking after his vanishing
figure.

Well, you have one nice friend, at all
events,' said Celia, turning to Paul with a
radiant smile.

Do you like him ? I'm glad,' said Paul.
I thought you didn't care for Frenchmen.'

I don't generally. But this one is so
thoroughly nice, and so very good-looking.
His manners are rather demonstrative, certainly
 but they are only pretty, not ridiculous.'


You made a tremendous impression on
him,' said Paul, smiling, and gazing at her
with a sort of wonder ; she seemed to have
forgotten her vexation with him, as if it had
never been.

Did I ? That is delightful. And on the

old Vicomtesse, too, I flatter myself. She
asked me so prettily to come and see her,
and to bring my aunt. But the child  did
you notice the child, Paul V

I saw her, of course. I forget what she
was like.'

How stupid of you ! You certainly are
one of the blindest people. I thought you
liked looking at pretty things.'

I was thinking of beautiful things, and
sad things. I had no room for pretty things.'

Celia paused for a moment.

Look here,' she said, ' this courtyard is
not the place to talk nonsense in. We must
go in  or if you like, if you have time, shall
we have a little walk first ?'

Just what I Alas hoping for,' said Paul.
If that family had not seized upon us, I
meant to ask you to come with me into the
gardens.'

Let us go there now said Celia.

As they walked up the street she went on
talking about Antoinette de Montmirail, and
telling Paul how pretty she was, what a
charming little creature.

I am sure she is older than she looks,'
she said. ' Her mother must have been
very dark and very pretty. She is dead,
isn't she V

Yes, long ago. The girl is fourteen ; he
told me so.'

I wonder he has not married
again.'

I believe he thinks himself rather too
poor. They think so much of money in
France, you know.'

Well, they are quite right ; life is an
awful thing without it. But I wonder some
heiress has not married him  some pretty
little snob with an immense fortune. There

VOL. II. 26

must be hundreds of them who would be
only too delighted.'

 He would not be delighted,' said Paul.
I fancy he thinks a good deal of his
family. He won't sell himself

He seems to be a sort of hero all
round.'

I rather think he is  I don't know.'
The Jardin Sainte-mosque was solitary

at that season, and that time of day. The
trees stretched their bare arms rather low
over the broad gravel walks, which were
very damp, and would have been very dark
too, but for the lamps, of which there were
a good number. The seats under the trees
would have been delightful on a summer
evening ; they now shone in the lamp-light
with dreary, wet reflections, and nobody but
distracted lovers would have dreamed of
sitting down on them. Celia, certainly, was

not likely to run such a risk. To be in the
garden at all was a wild enough flight for
her. She had no idea of staying there long,
though she wanted to send Paul away happy.
She went on chattering a little more about
her new acquaintances, as she walked with
him along the wet crunching gravel. His
answers became shorter and more absent
every minute. At last they both dropped
into silence. A very little of this was
enough for her, in her state of strung excitement
and impatience. She was rather
angry that Paul did not seem able to follow
her lead, and take things up where they had
been before, without a tiresome explanation.
But she supposed that the silly fellow must
be humoured.

Well,' she said in her softest voice,.
what is the matter now ?'

 Have you forgiven me V said Paul.

262

Don't you think you are a little bit
stupid ? Why should we talk about forgiving
? If I was cross, I'm sorry  and
you may give my love to the Colonel, and
tell him to get better directly, or I will
never speak to him again  and don't be
tragical, for heaven's sake.'

The words were heartless enough ; but
there are ways of saying things which alter
their meaning very effectually, and the way in
which Celia said all this was perfectly sweet
to Paul.

Yes, I am stupid,' he said, ' a great deal
too stupid for you ; because you said something
this afternoon which has been making
me perfectly wretched ever since. Don't
you know what it was ?'

Xo, indeed,' she said. ' I haven't the
faintest idea. Tell me.'

You said  that if I loved you, I shouldn't

go away and leave you on such an excuse as
this.'

There was a moment's pause ; then CeHa
gave a Httle laugh.

My dear Paul,' she said, ' I say a thousand
things in the day that I don't mean,
and certainly that was one of them. You
will have to study the subject, and find out
which they are, because I can't always
explain. Of course I am not glad you are
going. I am very sorry ; I think it is great
nonsense, though it may be right. I hope
the Colonel will agree with me, and send
you back at once. I want you a great deal
more than he does. Xo, make yourself
happy ; I didn't mean that nasty thing ;
how could I ? You care for me too much,
not too little. Some day you will find out
that I am not good enough for you. Now
let us go back ; it's horribly cold, and we

have had enough of this. No more explanations,
please. I'm not in the right state of
mind for them. In Paris one lives and
enjoys ; one doesn't think and explain.'

Do you love me ?' Paul said. Somehow
he could not bear that quarter of an hour to
come to an end.

Why do you make me say things over
and over again ?' she said. ' I will answer
no more of your questions till you come
back ; then I shall have a great many things
to tell you. Now say good-bye, and be
happy.'

 May I really be happy ?'

 You are a very unreasonable creature to
be anything else,' said Celia ; and as Paul
kissed her, there under the dark trees, he
knew that she was right, and that no mortal
man could be happier.

But all that night, through the roaring of

the train, as it rushed away from Paris to
the cold north and the dividing sea, one of
his own songs vvent on sounding in his head
Tost's music and Whyte-Melville's words :

Good-bye, summer ! good-bye  good-bye !'

DI AND HER MASTER.

That was why I telegraphed to you said
Dr. Graves. ' He recovered his speech, as
I say, in the course of a few hours, and to
a certain extent the use of his left side,
though you see he is still very helpless.
Before he could speak he managed to
scribble on a piece of paper, '' Don't send
for Mr. Romaine ;" but I found in spite of
this that he was very uneasy in his mind,
calculating how soon you would be at home.
And then he said to me yesterday morning,
I don't want to spoil his pleasure, but I

wish he was here. There's my will. I
want him to be here when I make my will,
and I don't think I ought to put it off.
What do you say, Dr. Graves ?" Well, no
one could think of deceiving a man like
him. I told him, the sooner he made his
will the better, for I could not deny that
he was in a precarious state. He said
no more ; but I took it on myself to send
you that telegram, and I hope you think
I did rio:ht. I did not think I need do
more than hint that he was anxious for
your return.'

You were quite right. Dr. Graves,' said
Paul.

And allow me to say,' said the doctor,
if he asks you to write to his lawyer
this afternoon, I advise you to make no
objection.'

It is a very strange thing, isn't it V said

Paul. * A strong man like him, no great
age, and leading such a simple life, to break
down in this sort of way.'

Sometimes these things are unaccountable,'
said Dr. Graves ; and then, as the
cold wind came whistling over the common,
he hastily buttoned up his coat, got into his
carriage and drove away.

Before Paul turned back to the house,
he lingered a minute or two at the gate,
looking up the road, across to where dark
masses of trees, some changeless firs, the
others all bare and brown, separated him
from Red Towers. There he supposed
that the works, the preparations for Celia,
were going on actively. He had half forgotten
them ; but it had occurred to Celia's
active mind, just before he started from
the Paris hotel, that his going back now
might be something more useful than a

sacrifice to friendship, after all ; he might
see that the workmen were not making;
mistakes, and that Colonel Ward's illness
did not bring things to a standstill. She
chattered away, reminding Paul of a good
many things, while he was hurrying through
his dinner. Her manner was very charming,
and she talked of Red Towers as if
it was home. Paul promised faithfully to
bring her back a full report of everything.
But now, within a few yards of his transformed
old house, standing at Colonel
Ward's gate in the cold twilight of that
December day, with such a damp chill in
the air, a slight powdering of snow on
road, trees, wastes of dead bracken, solemn
woods that stood unmoving, under a low
grey sky that seemed to j)i'c>mise more,
Paul felt that all the painting and polishing
and ornamenting of Red Towers was somehow

quite incongruous ; it pleased him less
than ever. His mood on that sad winter
day was far more in accordance with the
dark, shabby old cottage behind him, where
preparations were going on for something so
very different from the life that lay before
him. Perhaps this dismal state of mind
was not unnatural. Paul was never very
high - spirited ; melancholy, to characters
of his kind, comes more easily than its
opposite. Lately, in Paris, Celia had given
him such wild excitement of happiness ashe
had never known before ; then came
the reaction, a certain consequence with a
nature like his, and now it seemed a little
difficult to believe in happiness at all.
People like Paul are never very consistent ;
if their day is unclouded, their night is
starless. Nature has loved them, and made
them sensitive to all her influences ; but

it is only to her very highest favourites that
she has given the great gift of her reasonableness
too.

As Paul stood leaning on the gate, sad
enough, something came and pushed a cold
nose against his legs. It was Di, who
had hardly left her master's room since he
was taken ill. Paul stooped and patted her
curly sides.

Yes, old doggie,' he said, ' I remember
how you came and made love to her in the
stable-yard that day. Well, no wonder !
everybody and everything loves her ; how
can they help it, I should like to know !
and England is a coldish country without
her, you'll allow that, Di ; and yet she
would tell me I am very unreasonable not
to be happ3 That's because she can't
quite understand how every look and every
word of hers matters so tremendously.

What is it like, life without her ? Don't
you know, Di ? Then I'll tell you. It's
like crawling aloof a frozen lane between
high banks, with one's eyes on the ground.
That's it. There's no outlook, nothing.
One's faculties are frozen, you see. One
can't even care whether the drawing-room is
the right shade of blue ; that is, whether
she is to be happy or miserable. One is
in fact like a toad in a stone. Come along,
let us go back to the Colonel.'

Di's eloquent hazel eyes gazed earnestly
at Paul while be talked to her in this
fashion. She was doubtful ; she did not
altogether understand him, till he came
to his last proposition, and to this she
agreed most cordially. She trotted back
before him, in at the door  which he had
left half open when he went out with the
doctor  and up the low, uncarpeted staircase,

and along the uneven boards of the
passage to her master's door. Barty opened
it before she had time to scratch. She
went to the bed and stood up on her hind
legs for a good look at the sick man, who
lay and looked at her without speaking.
Then, with a faint little cry, too low to
disturb him, she went off to the fire and
laid herself down. Barty went lightly out
of the room, and Paul came in and shut the
door.

The arrangements of Colonel Ward's room
were like himself, and like an old soldier,
simple and severe. His little iron bed had
no curtains, and there was no carpet on the
floor. Since he began to be ill, Barty, his
chief nurse, had hung warm curtains at the
window, brought an arm - chair upstairs,
and imported a tall old screen from Red
Towers ; but the Colonel presently complained

that this darkened the room, so it
was pushed away into a corner.

On the whole, the room was cheerful,
with a fine fire, which Barty had just made
up, crackling in the grate. And Colonel
Ward was by no means a dismal invalid.
As Paul came in and sat down, stretching
out his long legs to the fire, he watched
him with a sort of sharp satisfaction. But
presently his expression changed a little.

Well, Paul, old boy, what have you
been doing V he said. ' Burning the candle
at both ends again, as you did when you were
reading: for honours ? What's the meanings
of it now ? You are not in trouble V

Paul looked rather wonderingly at the
grey face on the pillow. The Colonel's
wits were plainly as quick as ever, though
his voice was low and failed wearily now
and then.

No trouble except your illness. That's
one, certainly,' he said, and he smiled.

My illness hasn't had time to pull you
down like that,' said the Colonel. * It must
be that hateful Paris, which takes the colour
and the goodness out of everybody.'

I didn't know,' said Paul.

Has it had any effect on Miss Darrell ?'

None  except that she gets more perfect
every day.'

More perfect  a first-class man  he is
demoralized, he has forgotten his English,'
said the Colonel. ' Did she send me any
message V

Oh yes, her love ; and so did Mrs. Percival,
a great many messages, and you are to
make haste and get well. Colonel.'

Ah ! what did Graves say about that ?'

He said  well, that you would have to
be very careful.'

VOL. II. 27

Paul stared at the fire, and Colonel Ward
did not speak again for a few minutes.

Presently he said, in a stronger voice than
before :

Graves thinks I am soin;' to die.'

He didn't tell me so,' said Paul. ' Look
here, Colonel ; you have no business to say
such a things, or to take it into your head.
Why, you are getting better.'

Getting better ! well, perhaps so,' muttered
the Colonel.  Three days ago I
couldn't speak. But it's coming again,
you know. I asked Graves, and he
couldn't deny it.'

That is all nonsense,' said Paul. ' Doctors
know nothing. Look at Di ; she agrees
with me ;' and Di, as she lay before the fire,
lifted her head and gave that sad little
human cry of hers again.

 Does she ? I don't think that sounds



very cheerful,' said her master. ' Be reasonable,
my lad, and let us face facts. Why
should I live to be a so much older man
than your father, whose life was so much
more valuable than mine ? Don't think I
am fretting over what can't be helped. Life
has not had any very deep interest for me
since your father died. One wants a friend
of one's own age.'

No deep interest ? Why, Colonel, what
sort of interest have you taken in me, and
my concerns ?'

 That's a different thing ; that's one-sided,'
said the Colonel, a smile flickering over his
worn face. ' I am not complaining, mind
you. I don't complain, either way. Your
friend the Vicar came to see me yesterday
he's an odd chap, that  and asked me
among;' other things if I was afraid of death.
I said, ' Well, a soldier who has tried to do

:27 2

his duty is not afraid of his superiors.' He
didn't seem quite satisfied, but Graves came
in just then, so he said no more. Your
father and I always agreed that we should
choose death in battle. Neither of us was
to have his choice, it seems ; but I don't
see why death in a room like this should be
met in a different way. It is the same thing,
after all ; only you have more time to think
about it. And it's no kindness for one's
friends to disagree with the doctor. I don't
suppose Graves is a specially clever man ;
but he knows his trade well enough for me,
and when I ask him a question, he tells me
the truth.'

I cannot see why he should take a dark
view, or you either,' said Paul.  You are
getting better, and you may live for years.'

Well, I may,' said Colonel Ward. ' Who
knows ? I may. I should like at any rate

to live till after you are married, and not to
give you too much trouble in the meanwhile.
Now we have talked enough for the present.
By-and-by we must have a few words on
business.'

He closed his eyes, and seemed to sleep.
For nearly an hour Paul sat and dreamed
over the red gleaming fire ; the warm stillness
of the room was not so oppressive to
him as it would have been to most young
men, for he was hardly conscious of it.
Part of the time he was himself almost
asleep, not having closed his eyes the night
before. The world outside grew darker ; it
was just twenty-four hours since he had
walked with M. de Montmirail to meet
Celia at the door of Sainte-mosque. Only
twenty-four hours ; they seemed like days
to Paul, accustomed as he was now to be
with Celia every day, and all day long. Di

pricked her ears now and then at some sound
below ; she never slept, but kept her faithful
watch lying there. Generally her clear
eyes were fixed on her master's bed ; but
sometimes she lay looking very earnestly at
Paul, as if his dark pale face and tired eyes
had some fascination for her. When his
eyelids drooped, and his head fell back
against the chair, she sat suddenly bolt
upright, staring at him ; this change of
position had the instant effect of rousing
him, and then Di was satisfied, and lay
down again. It was evident that in her
opinion a watcher in the Colonel's room
must not be allowed to close his eyes ; at
the same time, she took quiet means of
keeping him awake. Unless the Colonel
was talking, no bark, or even moan, was
to be heard from Di.

Presently Barty came softly upstairs, and

called the Squire out of the room. His
agent, Mr. Bailey, was down at Ked Towers
that day, and wished to see him, having just
heard of his arrival. Paul went down,
leaving Barty in charge, and found Mr.
Bailey in the drawing-room.

The agent was a lively young London
man, without any of the old-world air which
seemed to belong to most of the connections
and dependents of Red Towers, as well as
to the place itself His office, however,
was hereditary, and his father had been a
very different and more reverential sort of
person. He was much smarter than Paul,
whom he considered one of the queerest fish
he had ever known. But though he talked
of Paul in his absence in an amazingly patronizing
strain, he knew quite well how to
behave to him in his presence ; and Paul
rather liked him, though they never found

much to say to each other. He was honest,
intelligent, and very energetic, and had done
a great deal for the estate in the last few
years. The present alterations interested
him deeply, and he was an enthusiastic
admirer of the future Mrs. Romaine, whose
artistic taste seemed to him to equal her
beauty and her ' fascinating manners.'

He had a great deal to say that evening
about the house, and the way in which the
works were going on. On the whole, he
thought things were satisfactory. He spoke
of Colonel Ward's illness with civil concern,
and did not tell Paul that the foreman of
the works had thought himself more hindered
than helped by the Colonel's constant and
active supervision. He did, however, hint
that the Colonel had fussed himself into his
illness, having been terribly put out about
some wrong paper which had come from

London, and with which a room had been
half papered before the mistake was found
out. Mr. Bailey said he had never seen
the Colonel so painfully excited about anything.
He confessed that the news of tho
stroke, a few days after, had not surprised
him very much.

Paul listened sadly ; he had heard nothing
of this before, for the Colonel had put the
matter right without troubling him about it ;
and now it seemed as if this worry might
indeed have brought on his illness. He did
not say much to Mr. Bailey, but when the
agent suggested, ' Was it too dark for him
to come and look at the house now V he
answered rather quickly,  Yes.' The whole
subject of the house and its decorations
seemed painful and incongruous now.

I shall be down again the day after tomorrow,'
said Mr. Bailey. * Will that suit

you to look over things ? Shall you be here
still V

Yes, I shall be here. Very well  unless
the Colonel is worse,' Paul said absently.
And the young agent went away, thinking,
perhaps, how oddly the goods of this world
are distributed. He did not, of course,
philosophize, but he said to himself :  Now,
there's a fellow who has got everything, and
cares for nothing ;' and he went on to think
what he would do with Paul Romaine's
possessions if they were his.

When he was gone, finding that the
Colonel was still asleep, this young man who
cared for nothing sat down and wrote to
Celia, telling her all that was in his heart.

He did go to Ped Towers that evening,
after all. It was easy to fall back into the
old habit of doing what the old servants
arranged for him ; and when Sabin came

across to say that his room was ready, and
that he could dine comfortably in the study,
which the workmen had not touched, Paul
soon saw that Barty and Mrs. Perks had
enough to do at the Cottage, without making
preparations for him. The idea was so
reasonable, that he readily acted upon it.
He went up again to see the Colonel, who
was lying very still ; their talk in the afternoon,
when he had been so bright and full
of life, seemed to have exhausted him. As
Paul stood by his side for a minute, the
Colonel opened his eyes and murmured
something. Paul had to stoop down to hear
what it was.

Di must belong to Celia,' he said. ' Do
you hear ? Don't forget.'

I will tell her you said so,' Paul answered,
with a sudden burning sensation about his
eyes, and a tightening at his throat.

His letter to Celia had already gone to
the post ; the message must wait for another
day ; but he hardly knew whether his dear
old friend's words gave him more pleasure
or pain. That the Colonel should have such
faith in Celia, faith enough to trust her with
Di, was indeed beyond what he had ever
hoped ; but he knew now that the Colonel
would not get better.

There was no business talk that night ;
so he told Barty to fetch him if he was
wanted, and walked off, tired and sad enough,
towards Red Towers. Sabin tried to cheer
him with hopeful remarks while he dined in
the old study, but he was not in a mood for
talking to Sabin. He was thinking all the
time of that evening, not so many weeks
ago, when the Colonel dined with him there,
and afterwards, in the garden, he told him
of his engagement. How angry he was,

dear old fellow ! But then how easily, when
she came, Celia had smoothed his prejudices
away.

The old house was always very silent at
night, but that night its stillness was something
quite oppressive, and Paul, thinking of
Celia's love of human life and stir, of the
unflagging enthusiasm with which she had
lately been enjoying Paris, of the absence in
her nature  which he thought he knew so
well  of any desire for peace and quietness,
began to wonder how she would endure
living here. Then he reminded himself, ashe
sat staring into the study fire, with his
happy little terrier at his feet, that Celia
would have the power to make Ped Towers
as cheerful as she pleased ; the whole county
would be delighted to welcome her ; she
would soon have plenty of acquaintances,
many of whom, at present, he only knew byname,

being known to them as a clever,
shy, eccentric boy, whose two guardians had
effectually protected him from the designs
or the influence of neighbours. When his
beautiful wife came to live there, with her
pretty manners, her good taste, her possessions
in the way of horses, dogs, flowers,
everything she cared for, or that Paul's
money could give her, certainly Red Towers
would be very different then. No place
could be dull where Celia was, and after
all, she was not one of those women who
depend on amusement, and are bored in the
midst of it. Her temper was far too sweet
and cheerful ; she would always be charming
to everybody, and happy everywhere. When
once all this tiresome bustle of preparations
was over, and the ordeal of the wedding,
then real happiness would begin, and go on
shining to the end.

As for me, I'm morbid and unreasonable
Mrs. Percival told me so thought Paul
 Why on earth can't I shake off this stupid
sort of nervousness ! The Colonel doesn't
want me, because he's ill, to go about as if
the place was full of ghosts. One might
really have a reason for behoof miserable.
After all, there is only one jackson in the
world who matters, and she might like somebody
else better than me. And she doesn't,
and I am the happiest fellow in the whole
world.'

He threw himself back in his chair, and
looked round at his old dark walls and his
bookcases. Colonel Ward's hand had been
everywhere ; he had arranged the books,
had hung up Paul's pictures and other
treasures over the mantelpiece ; he had been
here, as proud and contented as Sir Paul
himself would have been, to welcome the

young fellow when he came home with his
splendid degree.

I am glad they have let the old den
alone,' Paul thought. ' I shall keep it
always like this, if Celia doesn't mind.'

Then he thought he would go and look at
the other rooms ; so he took a candle and
marched about their sounding emptiness,
where there was not much to be seen. The
solitary light shone faintly on new artistic
colourings ; there was a fresh, damp, heartless
smell of paint and plaster, and the air
was very cold, though fires had been burning
all day. Paul unbarred the shutters of one
of the great windows, threw it open, and
looked out into the night. The garden and
the woods were still, and would have been
in deep darkness but for the glimmer of a
powdering of snow.

A LETTER FROM CELIA.

Everyone expected more snow ; but that
night it did not come, and the next day
was very much the same, with grey thick
clouds hanging low, and a creeping cold in
the air which was not frost, but winter in
its saddest aspect and feeling.

Colonel Ward's sick-room was perhaps
the most cheerful place. He had slept at
night, and all through the morning he was
quite wide awake, and talked to Paul a
great deal.

About twelve o'clock their talk was
VOL. II. 28

interrupted by Dr. Graves, and Paul left
him with his patient. When the doctor
came downstairs the young Squire was
walking about the garden in front, with a
puzzled frown on his face.

Dick, jealous and unhappy at being shut
out from his master, was lying on the doorstep
; Jess was walking sedately after Paul ;
Punch and Judy were rolling over each
other on the grass. When Dr. Graves
came out these two rushed forward and
jumped upon him. Dick looked at him
fixedly with a low moan. Jess, as Paul
stopped to speak to him, lay down and
gazed into vacancy.

'Good dogs, good dogs  there, get
along,' said the doctor. ' Has Colonel
Ward said anything to you about business,
Mr. Romaine V

'Business? Well, ives,' said Paul, flushing

a little as he looked at the doctor and
wondered how much he knew. ' He has
been talking all the morning about his will.
I wish he wouldn't.'

The sooner his mind is at rest the better.'
Why ? You don't think him worse V
Not absolutely worse, no ; but I am
not easy about him. He had better see
his lawyer, and get things settled. He is
in a state of nervous excitement about this
will of his. Do you understand ? Not that
he says much to me about it ; but if I were
you, I should telegraph for Mr. Cole this
afternoon.'

If he suggests it himself, of course I
must,' said Paul. ' But, you know, I must
wait for that. From what he has been
telling me, / can't lift a finger to hurry
things. I am awfully afraid he is going todo
something wrong.'

282

Leave his money to you, do you mean V
said Dr. Graves, smiling.

'Part of it, and  look here, you know,
he must have some relations somewhere,
though he says he hasn't.'

Dr. Graves was a thin, grey-haired,
practical man, much weather-beaten, and
not very cheerful, perhaps from his complete
honesty. He was rather cynical in
his views of humanity, but he liked Paul
Pomaine, and had liked his father, seeing
in them a clear sincerity, which was the
only quality he respected. Colonel Ward
also shared his esteem for the same reason.
As a rule. Dr. Graves hated women ; he
said he could not understand them.

If I were you,' said the doctor, ' I
should safely trust the Colonel not to do
anything unfair. He is a just man 
honourable, like your father.'

Yes, but it's too much ; if you only

knew, Dr. Graves '

Don't tell me ; I'm not curious, and I
am in a great hurry. Colonel Ward is
quite capable of managing his own affairs.
For his sake, not for yours, I advise you to
send that telegram.'

The Doctor was o-one. Paul loitered
about with the dogs a few minutes longer,
and then went back to the Colonel's
room.

Colonel,' he said, sitting down beside

him, * I've got something serious to say.'

Out with it ; but I'm getting sleepy.'

If you really choose to do this for Celia,

it is most awfully good of you. I don't

see how we are ever to thank you 

but '

Don't bother,' said the Colonel, rather
wearily. ' Think of me sometimes when

you think of your father, Paul. Poor
Tom Darrell ! I believe she was fond of
him.'

Paul felt all the more anxious at this
strange new gentleness. Lately, since he
had made friends with Celia, Colonel Ward
had not mentioned her father at all. In
old days nothing was too bad for him.

I was going to say,' said Paul,  why
should you leave the rest to me ? Now do
think that over, will you. There can be no
hurry.'

Yes, but there is,' said the Colonel,
more wakefully. ' My memory's giving
way. I wanted to tell you to telegraph
to Cole at once. He will come down this
afternoon, and the thing will be signed and
done with. Then I shall be able to sleep
quietly. Don't dispute. I can't stand it.
Go away, there's a good fellow. Send the

telegram, and take yourself off for the afternoon.
Barty will look after me.'

Barty's anxious face was already at the
door, with something on a tray. Paul perceived
that in truth the best and wisest
thing was to take himself off, as the Colonel
said. He went away to his own house ;
sent Ford off with the telegram to the
lawyer, and after luncheon took his gun
and went off into the woods with Dick and
his own old retriever.

The fresh keen air, and the sweet scent
of the woods, cold and silent as they were,
did Paul's spirits good. The dogs ran about
and enjoyed themselves thoroughly, without
showing much surprise at the conduct of
their unpractical master, who let birds flyaway
from under his feet, and did not even
pay them the attention of a random shot.
Sometimes, when the humour took him,

Paul could be rather a keen sportsman :
his keeper respected him, if his groom did
not. But to-day he seemed to forget that
he had a gun in his hand at all. He wandered
on through intricate miles of wood,
thinking how astonished Celia would be
when she heard of the Colonel's intention.
Of course Celia did not and could not care
for money ; but she cared very much for
the things that money could bring. There
would be hardly anything now that she
might not have, if she chose. And then
Paul thrust all these thoughts away with a
sort of horror. After all, surely he had
enough ; and Celia, he knew, would agree
with him in dreading the time when that
legacy should come to her. People must
of course make their wills ; but a will was
a ghastly thing at best ; it had better be
put aside and forgotten. Celia must know ;

he could not help telling her ; but then the
subject should never be mentioned again 
not for years, he hoped  for it was very
hard to imagine what life would be without
the faithful old friend who had been so
much to him since his father died. And
then Paul assured himself that the Colonel
was better; that his good constitution would
triumph, and he would live for years. If
there was the slightest relapse, he determined
to send for a London doctor to consult with
Dr. Graves ; anyhow, perhaps this would
be a good thing to do : and busy with all
these thoughts, he went tramping on through
the oak-scrub and heather, while pheasants
looked at him from branches of trees, and
rabbits hardly took the trouble to hide in
their holes, till Dick or the old black dog
came scrambling through the underwood.
Paul took a long round, and by the time

he came back to Red Towers, the sun had
set and twilight had fallen. It was almost
dark in the thicker part of the woods. He
came through the gate at the end of the
garden, and remembered a talk he had had
with Celia, standing in that very corner,
before the trees were leafless and the garden
flowerless, while the Virginia creeper that
covered part of the house was still clustering
thick and rich, in its beautiful brown
and red, on the old red bricks. It was bare
now ; only the ivy remained, curling round
corners and running up to the chimneys,
with a deep green mass below, where a
whole congregation of birds would build
their nests next spring. Mrs. Sabin had
not yet shut the long range of windows, and
the workmen's ladders and planks were lying
about on the grass outside, where there was
still a little snow.

There had been a peculiar sweetness
about Celia that September day, the day
after she arrived at John. She was good
that day, as well as happy. Paul remembered
how she had told him that she
could be perfectly happy in the dear old
house as it was, if he in the least disliked
its being altered; as to the study, she 'would
not have it touched for worlds.'

Paul liked to remind himself of her words ;
she had said them, she had meant them,
though possibly she might have forgotten
them now. And after that, she had talked
to him very sweetly, with a deeper show of
feeling than was usual with her, and then
they had gone on into the yard together,
and then Colonel Ward appeared and was
conquered. Yes, she was the sweetest,
dearest, best woman in the world ; and the
man to whom she had given herself had

certainly no excuse for any feeling but the
most intense happiness. His life was going
to be something beyond imagination ; and in
this bright future it now seemed impossible
that the dear old Colonel would be absent.
He and his dogs must come in at the gate
as in old days. Paul and Celia, as they
loitered about next summer in their garden
full of roses, must surely see that little
company advancing.

It was as if a sudden clash of joy-bells
had broken in on Paul's melancholy mood ;
that wintry twilight garden might have been
flooded with a miracle of sunshine. His
eyes brightened, he pulled himself together,
as the future gave him these dazzling glimpses
of itself; he whistled to the dogs, and walked
across the lawn with a light quick step.

Any sport, sir ?' asked Sabin, meeting
him in the hall.

No ; I didn't try to hit anything,' Paul
said, laying his gun down. ' Has there
been any message from the Cottage this
afternoon V

No, sir ; but a gentleman's come down
from London to see the Colonel, and I rather
think he's there now. There's a letter for
you, sir, on the study table.'

Sabin smiled. He lingered a moment,
looking after his young master as he went
into the study. But then the door was
shut, and there was no more to be seen.

It was a letter from Paris, from Celia.
No wonder Paul had felt happy as he came
near the house. So she had been writing
to him yesterday, when he was writing to
her. She had not promised to write yesterday,
but she had been better than her word ;
it was like Celia.

He threw himself into an arm-chair by

the fire, and opened his letter. The first
look that crossed his face and dimmed the
smile away Alas one of complete bewilderment,
for the letter had no beginning.

The beginning of Celia's letters was always
My dear Paul.' He had remonstrated
before now, and begged for something more ;
but she had laughed and said that she could
not imagine anything more. As he did not
seem satisfied, she went on to explain, with
laughing eyes :

Mine  my dear ! How can one say anything
nicer than that ? I despise " dearest "
and " darling." In fact, I think they are
rather insulting, as if it was necessary to
exaggerate. To me " my dear " means infinitely
more.'

So it does, when you say it like that,'
Paul was obliged to confess, and he never
complained again.

But this letter from Paris had not even
the plain beginning that Celia liked. There
was something very mysterious about it
altogether. Every word of it seemed more
puzzling than the last, and as Paul read on,
and read to the end, his bewilderment became
hopeless.

The letter was not dated, and this was
the way it began :

I have put off writing to you, and

you are calling me horrid and heartless ;
but who was it, I wonder, who kindly told
me once that I was as cold as a fish, and as
hard as a stone ? And how can you expect
anything from a person with such a character ?
At first, I thought I would not write to you
at all, for it was stupid of you, as well as
vvrong, to write that letter to me ; but I
suppose silence is a worse punishment than

you deserve, and there are other reasons.
By the time you get this I hope I shall be
married, or at any rate it will be too late
for you to interfere. I told you before, and
I tell you again, that I like my prospects
very much. A fish is satisfied with plenty
of water to swim in, and a stone has not the
bother of being in love. A stone is lazy too,
I should think, and would not care to dig
itself up and tear about the world for anybody.
Don't you begin to see now what
nonsense your letter was ? I know, don't
I, when I am well off? At the same time,
hoping that we may never meet again  at
least, till you have forgotten to be silly, and
have married some more self-denying girl  I
will confess that if I could be in love, it
would be with you, and not with him. I
don't mind telling you that, because you
think you know it already, and I suppose

you are not far wrong. My marriage of
course has no love in it, but it is a very
good thing for me. I Hke to be rich, I Hke
to be comfortable, and I like to be spoilt.
There is nothing good in me. Your wife,
when you have been married to her a year
or two, will have to be a very good woman
indeed. The man I am going to marry will
always worship me, and will not expect much
in return. At the same time, if I was a
braver woman, I suppose I might possibly
throw him over, and marry you. But as
things are, my dearest, no. Don't write tome
again ; it is too late, and we have done
with each other for ever now.

Yours always,

Celia.'

Paul read this letter twice through, first
quickly, then slowly, without the faintest
VOL. II. 29

idea that it was meant for anyone but him.
Then he took up the envelope and looked at
it vaguely :  Paul Romaine, Esq., Red
Towers and so on ; that was all right : and
he besran to read the letter aofain. As he
became more fully conscious that he did not
understand a single word of it, there came
over him a feeling of terrible oppression, a
feeling of being stifled in a black fog ; and
then the thought flashed upon him that he
was ofoinof out of his mind. He laid the
letter down, got up from his chair and walked
round the room two or three times : then
he took down a book from the shelves. ' If
I am mad,' he thought, ' I shall not understand
this.' He stood still, and forced himself
to read half a page, giving it his full
attention ; it was perfectly clear to him ;
and long afterwards, when that terrible evening
had been left years behind, he remembered

the book  it was Matthew
Arnold's  Essays in Criticism '  and could
almost have said that half-page by heart.
Then he went back to Celia's letter, and
began to read it a fourth time, with a clear
and resolute intention to understand every
word of it, and to know the worst ; for he
still supposed that the letter was meant for
him.

Understand it I but that was not so easy,
with the strongest resolution and the clearest
brain, for it was as full of mysteries as ever.
Some great trouble was evidently wrapped
up in it ; but why, whatever she had done
or meant to do, should Celia have put things
in such an extraordinary way ?

She had not put off writing to him ;
nothing had been farther from his thoughts
than to call her ' horrid and heartless.' As
to those strange remarks about stones and

29  2

fishes, he fancied he had heard her say something
of the kind before, but could not very
well remember what. His letter ! Was
that yesterday's letter ? But she had not
received it. And what in the world did she
mean about her marriage, and about this
other man, whom she was not in love with
he hoped not, indeed.

Did I ever want her to be self-denying f
thought 23oor Paul. ' And who could possibly
worship her more than I do ?'

Too late ! Not write to her again t
Done with each other for ever ! The
mystery was indeed too deep to be understood.
And then to sign herself  Yours
always,' and to call him ' my dearest,' when
she was bringing everything to an end in
this overwhelming way ! To be sure she
had drawn her pen through that ' my
dearest ' lightly, as if by a casual afterthought

of her own inconsistency ; but still
she had written it, and had left it there.
Though she did not say so plainly, the whole
letter seemed to imply that she was going to
be married immediately to someone else 
so immediately, that Paul's writing to her
would be of no use. And yet she seemed
miserable, and she said plainly that she liked
him best.

I must go,' said Paul. ' The Colonel is
certainly better. Can't I catch the night-mail
at Charing Cross ? Anyhow, I'll try
for it. Cole will surely be ready to go back
by the 5.50, and Ford can drive us down in
half an hour.'

To Ford's great satisfaction, he had been
employed that autumn to buy a fast-trotting
cob for the little dog-cart, and this animal
did his twelve miles an hour easily.

Paul rang the bell, and Sabin appeared

134 RED TOWERS

at the door that same moment with a message.


 Would you kindly step over to the Cottage,
sir. Colonel Ward would be glad to
see you. Did you ring, sir V as Paul stared
at him rather blankly.

Tell Mrs. Sabin to pack my bag, will
you. I may have to go away to-night. Tell
Ford to have the cart ready. I shall want
to catch the 5.50.'

Having given his orders, the Squire went
out, walking with long hurried steps to the
Cottage. Just outside the door he tumbled
over Dick, who was waiting for him, and
kicked him severely. The poor dog was
too brave to cry out, but looked uj) for the
kind words that ought to have followed.
Paul strode on, however, without taking any
notice of him, and Dick slunk after disconsolate.


Sabin went back to his wife and feared
that the master had had bad news from
Paris.

He was as jolly as you please when he
first came in said he ; ' but now his face is
as white and his eyes like burning coals, so
as you never saw the like. I hope his young
lady ain't a-quarrelling with him.'

And going off to-night I That do look
serious Mrs. Sabin agreed. * I shouldn't
have believed he'd have left the Colonel,
and him with one foot in the grave, as you
may say.'

Well, it's a singular thing,' said Sabin.

Paul, meanwhile, with his letter in his
pocket, arrived at the Cottage, and went
upstairs to the Colonel's room. Dr. Graves
met him in the passage and stopped him for
H moment.

 You here again !' said Paul.

I was passing on my way back, and
thought I would look in said the doctor.
He is not quite so well  rather too much
excited. I shall be glad when this will business
is over and done with.'

 Why the devil couldn't it have been left
alone altogether !' said Paul, looking on the
ground.

Dr. Graves glanced at him sharply.

Well, he wants you,' he said. ' I shall
wait downstairs for the present. I have got
to witness the will, it seems, and I want to
see him again afterwards.'

The doctor passed on. Paul stood still
a moment outside the door, trying to collect
his thoughts, and to feel like himself again.
The sight of his dear old Colonel was more
calming than anything else could have
been.

He was lying propped up with pillows ;

his face was flushed, and looked drawn and
weary ; his voice sounded weak and strained.
The room was full of bright fire and lamplight
; on the farther side of the bed Mr.
Cole, the lawyer  a very solemn and busi-
ness-like personage  was writing at a table.
Paul walked round and shook hands with
him.

 Mr. Cole has raised a question, Paul,
that you must answer,' said Colonel Ward.
He asked me whether the legacy to Miss
Celia Darrell was to be conditional on her
marriage with you. After a moment's consideration
I thought it was best to consult

you.'

The Colonel smiled as he looked at Paul.
Mr. Cole also fixed his eyes on the young
man, standing at the foot of the bed, with
the slightest quiver of amusement about his
grave mouth. To Paul only the question

did not seem any matter of amusement.
He stood there looking down ; and if the
Colonel's eyes had had their old brightness,
the shadow that had fallen upon Paul would
certainly not have escaped them. His look
was dark and gloomy ; he lifted his hand to
his face as if to hide something, and stood
slouching there, leaning the other hand on
the bed-post.

Conditional on her marriage with me T
he repeated, and he seemed to speak with a
slight effort. * I don't quite understand.'

Yes, you do, my boy,' said the Colonel
impatiently. ' You might die, or she might
change her mind  I'm talking nonsense, of
course. Now, I should wish her to have
seventy thousand in any case ; I only want
to know if you agree with me. It is only a
formality ; it doesn't imply any doubt of your
marriage coming off, you understand, Paul

Whether our marriage comes off or not,
it can make no difference, surely,' said Paul ;
and Mr. Cole stared at him still more curiously
than before.

Perhaps it crossed his mind that Miss
Darrell, with seventy thousand pounds,
might easily find a more cheerful mate than
this dark-looking fellow.

That is just what I think,' said Colonel
Ward. ' Now go away, and we will finish
this business. Ask the doctor if he can
wait half an hour.'

Paul hesitated a moment ; but he could
say nothing about the 5.50 train, though it
seemed to him as if the minutes were tearing
on. Perhaps he might have to start off
without telling the Colonel, or seeing him
again. Was that possible ?

Before joining Dr. Graves in the drawing-room
he took out Celia's letter, and read it

once more under the lamp in the hall. Any
chance of understanding it seemed more
remote than ever. He could recognise
neither her nor himself ; and that other
man, ' the man I am going to marry,' was
like some black spectre of an unknown
creation.

He went into the drawing-room, and for
the next half-hour tried to talk politics to
Dr. Graves, who put down his abstraction
to the account of Colonel Ward's will, and
thought he was a very queer fellow.

HE IS ONE OF THOSE WHO ARE BEAUTIFUL AND
HAPPY.'

More than half an hour had slipped by,
before Barty called Dr. Graves to witness
the Colonel's signature. As the doctor
was leaving the room, he turned round and
said to Paul, ' I wish I could stay here tonight.
But I have a patient at Wilford
whom I am still more anxious about. You
will be here ? I dare say you could sit
with him part of the night ? If there is
any change, send for me at once.'

 Yes, I shall be here. I will sit up

with him,' said Paul, ahiiost in spite of himself.


He saw that the doctor was very uneasy,
and he felt it impossible, whatever his own
wish  almost necessity  might be, to leave
his old friend's death-bed for an explanation
with Celia. If she was taking some cruel
advantage of his absence, why, she must
take it ; she no doubt felt that he was safe
away, and she was right. He could not
fail the Colonel at this time, even if the
alternative was losing her. Then he
thought of her unwillingness that he should
come away ; what did that mean ? did she
want him to save her from herself? What
could possibly be the motive that was leading
her, if she did not care for this other
man ? Money ? but had not Paul himself
enough to give her everything she wanted ?
Then Paul resolved that he would distract

himself With these questions no more. No
one could sive him the answers but Celia
herself; and as he could not fly to her tonight
without behaving cruelly and selfishly,
he must leave his fate in her hands 
Mrs. Percival had once told him that he
ought to trust her. This letter was certainly
a supreme difficulty, and yet its
strange expressions seemed to mean that
after all she loved him.  Yours always :'
these words especially were a ray of light
through very dark clouds.

While Paul waited for the doctor and
Mr. Cole to come down, he wrote a telegram
and a short letter to Celia. The
telegram was :

What does your letter mean ? Do
nothing till I see you.'

The letter :

My Darling,

Yours is the most puzzling letter I
have ever received. I have read it twenty
times, and understand it no better. I
almost started off at once, but the Colonel
is too ill for me to leave him. Please write
and tell me what your letter really means.
Sometimes I think you may have written it
by way of a joke ; but that would not belike
you. Anyhow, I don't understand a
word of it. The house is getting on well ;
I think you will like it. I have been for a
long walk in the woods this afternoon ;
when I came back I found your letter,
which quite knocked me down, but I am
gradually coming to think that it is some
extraordinary piece of utter nonsense, which
I am too stupid to understand. Why did
you write it ?

 Your faithful and devoted

Paul Pomaine.'

The writing of this letter to CeHa did
Paul's spirits a little good. When one is
hurt by the person one loves best, the only
comforting thing, perhaps, is to go and tell
that same person all about it. Any amount
of sympathy from other people is of no use ;
we want to be healed by the same hand
that wounded us ; then the wound is nothing.


Having appealed in this way to his love
against herself, Paul resolved that he would
not read that letter of hers again till he had
her answer to this he had just written ; and
so, having put his trouble under lock and
key, he was ready, when Dr. Graves came
down, to meet him with a quiet countenance,
and to take his directions for the night
in a less absent manner than before.

Ford drove off to the station, with Mr.
Cole and the telegram ; the letter went to

VOL. II. 3

the post. Dr. Graves also drove away,
though in evident anxiety ; and as night
closed in upon the lonely common, under
the dark, snow-laden sky, the sick man lay
quiet and contented and watched Paul ashe
sat by the fire, with Di at his feet, his
shadow hardly moving on the wall.

He was not to talk ; the doctor had said
so ; and indeed the Colonel was too tired to
talk ; and Paul, though wide awake, wished
for nothing better than to sit there, and
wait, and watch the red toppling castles in
the fire. Here he was, after all ; and a few
hours ago he had fancied himself tearing
through another night journey, on business
which might perhaps, he thought, be truly
enough described as ' of life and death.'
No, rather of life alone ; and that was wh}
he found himself still here ; because there
were times when death must be stronger

than life, and must claim and use its
power.

 As Paul sat through the hours of that
night, in silence only disturbed by the
Colonel's heavy breathing, and a sigh now
and then from the dog, he began thinking
over the past year of his life ; the first, the
only year, it seemed to him, in which he
had really lived ; for it was not much more
than a year since he first saw Celia.

In those days, when she came to live
with her aunt, soon after her father's
death, Celia had lost for a time the sunny
pleasantness which most people thought her
chief charm. Her smiles shone through a
cloud of impatient sadness. It was not at
once that she began to be happy without
her father, whose loss, with all his faults,
had been the one great trouble of her life.

But even then she liked Paul's admiration,

302

though she took Httle notice of him. It
was not till some months later that some
hint about Paul from her aunt made her
seriously think of marrying him. He was
not exactly the sort of man who amused
her, of course ; but she was clever enough
to know, not being in love with anybody,
that the sort of man who amused her now
was not the sort that would spoil her
thoroughly and make her happy always ;
and so she was invariably nice to Paul, and
let him drift on into that perfect devotion
which she meant to reward by-and-by.

Paul looked back on those months now,
and wondered to think how smoothly the
course of his love had run. At the time he
had been plagued with anxiety  he could
not persuade himself that Celia could ever
think him worthy of her ; the hard work
for his degree was easy and delightful,

because, in his own estimation at least, it
brought him nearer Cela. Then came his
triumph ; then they sent him off abroad ;
then followed those few strange days at
Woolsborough, when he could not quite
understand Celia's doings, entirely as he
trusted her. That Saturday, when she was
out with Vincent ; that Sunday, when she
sent him out of Vincent's way  every look
and word of hers at that time came back
very vividly now. Vincent's sulky face 
certainly his going to India had been a
great relief, and everything had gone on
perfectly well since. One or two little
clouds, but they were not worth remembering.
Perhaps they had been woven out of
Paul's own morbid fancy. Mrs. Percival
would certainly say so. But now this letter !
For a short time the thought of the letter
had been numbed, as it were  driven away

into the land of dreams by these recollections
on which Paul's mind had been dwelling.
Now it came back with a sudden sting of
pain. In its unnatural mystery it was itself
like a bad dream. Paul had resolved not to
make sure of its reality by reading it again ;
but there was no need for that. He knew
every word of it too well. It was plain that
no thinking could help him to understand
it ; and yet, as he frowned over the thought
of it, something darted suddenly through his
mind. It was one of those flashes of thought,
those intuitions, which come and so almost
too quickly to print themselves on one's consciousness,
and Paul had no time to pursue
it then, though somehow he knew that it
caused him no surprise, and was only the
withdrawing of a veil. The Colonel stirred
and spoke, so low that Paul could not hear
him without coming to the bed.

Beat your trouble ; don't let it beat
you,' he was saying. * If you can't have
what you want, go without it, and don't cry
for the moon. You can do your duty in the
dark, I suppose. Don't be a coward. Why
shouldn't she know best ? Percival may bea
better man. At any rate she thinks so,
and she has a right to her opinion.'

His eyes were open, and he looked at
Paul while he said these things, speaking in
short, broken sentences. Paul knew that
he was talking to himself ; wandering a little,
perhaps, for he evidently expected no reply.
His mind had gone back to his own younger
days, and this sound advice was meant for
no one but himself; he had indeed turned
it into practice, and lived on it all through
his faithful life. But little as the Colonel
dreamed it, while his eyelids drooped again,
and he fell once more into his heavy, unconscious

sleep, the words had a meaning
too for his lad who was watching him. All
unknowing, the Colonel had brought a
message to Paul, of which not one word was
mistaken or out of place. The thing had
already flashed through Paul's brain as he
sat by the fire, and the Colonel's words only
confirmed it. After a minute, he moved
back to his chair by the fire, and deliberately
breaking his resolution of the evening, took
out Celia's letter and read it once again.
He understood it now ; he knew that he
was reading a letter not written to himself,
but to Vincent Percival. In this new light
every word was clear.

It was characteristic of Paul that the
discovery of Celia's falseness, the great shock
which changed all his life, was met at once
in the spirit of a strong man, rather than of
a passionate boy. Till now, Celia had influenced

and played with the weakest part
of his nature ; her magic had been at work,
smiHng and stroking down into slavery every
independent thought ; but she had not yet
conquered his whole nature so far that he
could not rise and shake himself, like a hero
of old, and go out scornfully, when he saw
that he had been deceived.

The letter, as he read it now, was a full
and clear explanation of Celia, and her
reasons for marrying him. All that had
ever puzzled him was explained by this
letter. The Celia he had loved and trusted
did not exist at all  this was Celia. It was
incredible, but true ; and none the less certain,
because it seemed impossible.

In the long, dark silence of that night,
Paul had plenty of time to study the different
aspects of this great surprise which had come
upon him. For it was a great surprise ;

though at the first iiiomeiit he had felt that
he had known it all along, and that his misgivings,
which seemed so unreasonable, his
consciousness of something, some barrier
between himself and Celia  her own quick
words now and then, when even she herself
revolted at deceiving him  all these, a hundred
little thoughts, acts, sayings, which had
seemed mere fancy or insignificant nonsense
at the time, were only flashes of light from
the truth so carefully hidden.

I have been a fool  an utter fool I' Paul
told himself, as he sat over the fire with his
face buried in his hands.

The Colonel dying, Celia dead ; it certainly
was a night to be remembered. His
thoughts wandered back to the Colonel's
own old troubles, of which he spoke so
bravely. His example might be worth following
 and yet there was no comparison.

The Colonel had never been engaged to
Mrs. Percival ; she had never deceived him ;
she had flirted with him a little, perhaps,
according to her nature, but nothing more.
Her marriage was a disappointment, and a
very cruel one ; but not an injury. It was
not a desecration, a sin against faith and
trust and everything that was good.

What would the Colonel say, if he knew
about Celia ? Paul now thought, with a
kind of horror, that he might recover, that
he might have to know. How would it be
possible to tell him ? How could anyone be
told these things against Celia ? The world
might find out for itself, Paul thought : he
would not say a word on the subject, except
to Celia herself. And as to her  of course
it would be easier to escape to the other
side of the world, and never see her again.
It was a temptation ; for a short letter,

enclosing this mis-sent letter of hers, would
be explanation enough ; but Paul resolved
that he must see her, and hear the truth
from herself Besides, her letter to this
other man  Ancient Percival, he felt sure,
though without any proof  made it clear
that she, for her part, had not the slightest
intention of breaking off her enoaoement.
She must know Paul's view of this. She
would be glad, no doubt, to be so easily rid
of an encumbrance ; and it would not matter
to her at all now. That last thought,
painful as it was in some ways, had at
least the advantage of setting Paul free.

In the midst of these thoughts he fell
asleep for about ten minutes, unnoticed by
the faithful Di, who had closed her own
watchful eyes some time before, thinking
that he was to be trusted. A most happy
and deceiving' little dream ended in a sudden

waking ; he thought Celia's hand was on his
shoulder ; but looking up with a start he saw
that it was Barty, and remembered everything
again.

Better go and lie down, sir,' Barty
whispered, proceeding to make up the fire.
I ain't going to bed, and it's no use you
sitting here. It's three o'clock, and snowing
fast ; been snowing for hours. Three to
four inches already on the flat, and now it's
drifting a bit, as you may hear by the moan
o' the wind.'

as it?' said Paul. 'No, I'll sit up,
thank you. The Colonel is still asleep. He
spoke once ; but I think he was wandering.'


A flame leaped suddenly up in the dimly-lighted
room, the wind gave a louder cry,
and a soft shower made the window-panes
rattle. Di sat up, turning her head to the

bed, and gave a long, low howl. Paul got
up, leaving Barty still kneeling on the
hearth rug, went across to the bed, and bent
over the Colonel in his deeps sleep : all these
little sounds had not disturbed him.

Paul bent over that motionless figure,
and his own heart seemed to stand still.

Barty  come here,' he said, with a quick
terror in his voice.

To this day, Ford the groom is not tired
of telling the story of his walk down
through the lanes to Wilford that December
morning, to fetch Dr. Graves. It seemed
useless to attempt riding, for in the hollow
lanes near Holm Common the snow lay
deep, and even on the higher ground it
balled, so that a horse could hardly get
along. Those six miles, that morning,
were as bad as twelve. Ford hardly

thought the doctor would come, though the
Squire said he must ; but in this Ford did
injustice to the doctor's jlck and endurance.
He started off in his dogcart without
any hesitation, and to Ford's surprise,
his horse, as courageous as himself, struggled
on somehow to the foot of the Holm lanes.
There he had to leave him at a farmhouse,
and walked the rest of the way with Ford to
the Cottage.

What the doctor feared, and could not
guard against, had happened sooner than
he expected ; another stroke, coming in
the Colonel's sleep, had deepened it into
death. No care, no watching could have
saved him ; Dr. Graves assured Paul
earnestly of this, when he accused himself of
having fallen asleep in his chair.

They were standing together by the fire
in the dining-room, having come down

from the sad room upstairs. It was nearly
eight o'clock ; and the dismal light of
dawn, white and dreary with snow, was
beginning to shine in through the shutters.
The doctor, brisk and rosy from his walk,
looked with a certain anxiety at Paul, who
stood like a man who was trying to bear
a great load of pain.

Of course the Colonel was like a father
to him,' Dr. Graves reflected, and he felt a
great deal more sympathy than he showed in
his manner, while Paul talked over arrangements
with him in an abstracted sort of way.

Paul had everything to do. He was
Colonel Ward's sole executor ; beyond the
legacy to Celia, and two or three small
ones, everything was left to him ; thus all
the affairs seemed to be his, and no friend or
relation was likely to come forward with a
nearer interest.

After talking for some minutes, Paul sat
down and beoan to write telegrams  to
Canon Percival, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Cole, and
two or three other people who seemed to
occur to him at the moment.

To-day is Friday, Next Wednesday,
you think V he said, looking up at the
doctor.

Perhaps you had better consult  Mr.
Cole, at any rate,' said Dr. Graves, staring
at him.

There was an odd impatience in the young
man's manner, he thought ; he had met with
many kinds of grief in his experience, but
here was a touch of something new, which
puzzled him.

It is notice enough for him,' said Paul,
and he went on writing.

Very imperious,' thought the doctor.

And there are your friends in Paris,' he

VOL. II. 31

suggested, as Paul pushed the telegrams
away. ' Are they at all likely to  to come
over ? Excuse me  but one has to think of
everything, difficult as it is.'

For a moment Paul sat stooping over the
table without saying anything. Then he
looked up at the doctor, and his eyes were
rather fierce.

I must go to Paris,' he said quickly.
 No use telegraphing ; I must go to-day.
If I can get there to-night, I may be back
tomorrow night. At latest, I will be back
on Sunday. Any orders that must be
given, will you give them for me. Dr.
Graves ? I shall think it very friendly
of you if you will.'

My dear sir,' said Dr. Graves with a
queer smile, * do you think this is quite
wise ? I am ready to do anything I can, of
course ; but I should have thought a visit

to Paris  partly because you are not well,
you are highly excited, and tearing about
in this fashion is very bad for you  in
short, it is unadvisable for many reasons.
Why can't you wait till the end of next
week V

Because I have business in Paris which
won't wait till the end of next week,' said
Paul quickly. He raised his face, which
was very pale, and, as he looked up into
the doctor's puzzled countenance, his eyes
softened, and he almost smiled. ' I didn't
consult you, Dr. Graves,' he said ;  I only
asked if you would do my work for me.
This is a thing which concerns no one
but myself Bailey will help me, if you
won't.'

The doctor was going to speak, but
checked himself, smiled a little satirically,
and rang the bell.

31  2

I am going to order breakfast,' he said.
If you mean to catch the up-train you have
no time to lose

Now which is the worst, a lover's
quarrel, or the death of an old friend V
thought Dr. Graves half an hour later, ashe
stood at the gate and watched Paul
Romaine striding off across the the snow-covered
common.

All the clouds had cleared away ; the
sun, lately risen, was sending beautiful
light over a dazzling world. Paul had
determined to walk all the way to the
station, in spite of Ford's remonstrances.

Dr. Graves need not have been quite so
cynical. As the young fellow plunged
through the deep track in the hollow lane,
with his face to the rosy radiance of the
east, his thoughts had not gone before him
to Paris, but had stayed behind in that low,

quiet, darkened room, where lonely Di lay
watching her dear master. Where was the
Colonel now ? In the * land o' the leal,'
Paul thought, wherever that may be ; in
that very distant country where nothing
selfish, or cruel, or false can ever find its
way.

AN EVENING WITH MADAME DE Errand.

Madame de Ferrand was sitting on a long
sofa at the end of her salon, talking to Mrs.
Percival. Her rooms and herself had the
same air of simple distinction. She was one
of the real great ladies of Paris ; but she
was not rich, and was far too proud for any
pretences or affectations. In France, in a
time like the present, when there is no
Court, and therefore no organized society,
thousands of people take titles without any
right to them, and whole fabrics of false
greatness are built up on a foundation of

money. But in spite of all this, the old
noble families can hold their own ; they
have a position, and they have influence,
though they often do not claim the one,
or use the other. But in truth, no French
politicians have yet been able to destroy
French history, or to take those old names
out of the native atmosphere in which they
live.

There sat little Madame de Ferrand in
her plain old room, without any of the
ordinary adornments of Paris life, with her
pale smiling face, and grey hair, and black
lace cap, and straight black gown. There
were plenty of women in Paris, with ten
times her fortune, magnificent women on
whom the crowd looked with envy, who
would have given a good deal to find themselves
sitting beside that old Vicomtesse, on
her chintz-covered nape.

But Madame de Ferrand, agreeable, tolerant,
religious, amusing, altogether delightful
as she was, was also perfectly exclusive.
She was supposed to live very quietly in her
corner of the Faubourg, to go nowhere and
see nobody ; the fact was that all the best
people in Paris came regularly to see her ;
and an invitation to dinner from Madame
de Ferrand was a sort of testimonial, for
unlike many ladies of her kind, she thought
quite as much of people's moral character as
of their names.

In asking Mrs. Percival and Miss Darrell
to dine with her that evening, Madame de
Ferrand was of course indulging the amiable
eccentricity of her son-in-law. She did not
personally care much for English people ;
they always seemed to her unfinished, the
women especially ; and Mrs. Percival, sitting
radiant in her best Paris gown beside the

little Vicomtesse, would have been surprised
and shocked if she could have read the
thoughts hidden behind those pleasant smiles
and pretty chattering.

Poor woman ! a little bourgeois, like so
many of them, and so much too smart for
the occasion. But a good woman, poor
thing, and no doubt passable in her own
country. The girl is better than her aunt
rather distinguished, really. Achille thinks
her a wonderful beauty  partly his English
craze, of course  but still '

Madame de Ferrand was very fond of her
son-in-law, and did all she could to keep up
her influence over him, partly for the sake
of his daughter, who was the one object of
her interest and love and care. Antoinette
had told her grandmother, not without tears,
of the scene at La Tour Blanche, her own
misery, her father's goodness. She was

now beginning to see that she might have
been a little selfish ; but still her father's
promise that these ideas should be given
up for her sake seemed to lie warm at her
heart, and made her too happy for any deep
repentance. Grandmamma looked into the
pleading eyes, and kissed the two flushed
cheeks, and laughed any lingering trouble
away. It appeared that she was quite
ready to join Antoinette's father in spoiling
the child ; but a few among Madame de
Ferrand's friends knew that she seriously
meant her son-in-law to marry again one
of these days, and quite understood that, in
her mind at least, the idea was only laid
aside for the present.

At the other end of Madame de Ferrand's
saloUj Antoinette, a good deal tied up with
blue ribbons, was showing Celia a book of
old caricatures. Celia, in a simple white

dress, looked very young and very lovely.
The two heads  dark and golden  were a
pretty contrast as they bent over the book.
Antoinette clapped her hands and went into
small peals of laughter, sometimes more at
her companion's remarks than at the pictures
themselves, for Celia seemed to throw herself
into this form of amusement as if there
was nothing in the world she cared for
more, and all sorts of new meanings seemed
to come dancing out of the funny ugly old
pictures as those blue eyes studied them, and
that pretty, clever mouth went on talking.

What vivacity she has, your beautiful
niece !' said Madame de Ferrand in her
quiet little voice to Mrs. Percival, at the
other end of the long room.

She has always been a favourite with
other young people,' said Mrs. Percival,
smiling, and looking delighted.

She amuses herself most amiably with
my little Antoinette : a charming temper
evidently,' said the Comtesse ; and then
she went on to ask one or two questions
about Celia's enofao-ement, which M. de
Montmirail had explained to her.

'Is he on the whole a little young for
her ? Xot in years, I mean,' she said in
the lowest of tones, with a playful smile.
Of course it is only an old woman's fancy ;
a stranger, who knows how to admire, however
'

Well, possibly,' Mrs. Percival confessed.
They are in fact just the same age ; but he
is boyish, I dare say. He has a great deal
of character though, and  I assure you, fora
girl in her position, poor child, her prospects
are very good indeed.'

Such looks might make a young lady
independent of any position, madame,' said

the Vicomtesse. ' At least my sou-inlaw
tells me that in England it would be so. In
France I fear we are less romantic. Xo
doubt there is something to be said on both
sides.'

Madame de F errand then went on to discuss
the education of girls, and Mrs. Percival
listened smilingly, without attempting
any argument ; she wisely thought that
this was impossible between two people
who saw things from entirely different
points of view.

In her own mind, Mrs. Percival was by
no means at ease about Celia, and was inclined
to be angry with her, though she enjoyed
Madame de F errand's admiration, and
shared it too. If she had known all, she
micrht have admired Celia for a self-control
of which she herself, in like circumstances,
would hardly have been capable. It was

now just twenty-four hours since Celia had
received that telegram from Paul, following
on his first letter full of affection and confidence.
Celia had read the letter once
through, smiled over it, and then laid it
aside. Paul's rhapsodies were only strings
of words to her ; and she liked him better
than his letters. But the telegram was
rather a different thing. She received it
when she was alone in her room ; and this
was fortunate, as she certainly would not
have cared to explain it to her aunt. She
sat and looked at it for a few minutes, with
a sort of singing in her ears, and a shiver
that ran all over her ; for the first time in
her life, perhaps, Celia was terrified. As
soon as she had collected her wits a little,
having instantly known what she had done,
she went to her writing-case to make things
certain. Of course it was so ; her letter to

Paul, a commonplace history of what they
had done since he went away, with the
necessary inquiries for Colonel Ward, was
lying there between the leaves ; the rough
sketch of a letter which she had scribbled
to Vincent was gone  gone into the wrong
hands ; gone to the very last person who
was meant to see it, without a name or a
beginning to prevent him from reading it 
gone to spoil everything, to take away
Celia's future that she had chosen for
herself, to throw her back into chance,
and dependence, and poverty, unless she
could in some way recover her footing,
and escape the consequences of such a
fatal and ridiculous mistake.

What was to be done ? For once in her
life Celia was thoroughly puzzled, as well as
furious with herself for her carelessness.
She knew exactly how it had happened.

She had been called away in a hurry to see
a milliner who could not wait, and had
folded her sheet of paper without looking at
it, and sent Timms down to post the letter,
with the real intention to please Paul
and make him happy in his banishment.
And now she had brought this upon herself.
Well, it was a triumph for Vincent ; she
supposed that his letter would have to be
answered in a different way now. But at
this moment she felt angry with Vincent,
who had brought her into this horrible
scrape, and was very sure she did not care
enough for him to wait three years, and was
determined, if by any means it was possible,
to have her own way still. Paul  the most
devoted lover that a girl ever had  her
slave, in fact ; faithful to her in every
thought ; gentle, generous, unselfish  he
and herself must both be changed, indeed,

if she could not keep him where he was,
at her feet, without any great trouble of
explaining what could not be explained.
One thing was very clear : she would not
have any correspondence on the subject.
Paul must come back to her, and then
she was sure of her power ; she could soon
convince him, then, that the silly letter
meant anything, or nothing. So, in answer
to that telegram, she wrote just three lines :

My dearest Paul,  Come back, and
I will tell you all about it. I want you
dreadfully.  Your own loving

Celia.'

When this was safely posted, she told
herself that all would be right now. But
perhaps one's moral character always takes
a little revenge, when one tries harder than
usual to drag it down. She could not sleep

VOL. n. 32

that night, and was in a restless temper all
the next day. Paul's letter, which came in
the afternoon, irritated her still further,
though it was comforting in one way ; whatever
he thought, however deeply he was
mystified, it was plain that he suspected
nothing.

Celia was out shopping with Mrs.
Percival all that day, and insisted on one
or two pieces of rather wild extravagance,
which surprised and annoyed her aunt a
little. She was also curiously changeable,
and gave a great deal of trouble in the
shops. As they drove home she said to
Mrs. Percival, ' And suppose this wedding
never comes off after all !'

Then, my dear,' said her aunt,  I know
whose fault it will be.'

Whose V

Yours, of course.'

Celia laughed, and after that recovered
herself. In fact, during the rest of the dasher
spirits were so unusually high that Mrs.
Percival, who thought a good deal of Paul
and the dear old Colonel, was obliged to
confess to herself that Celia was rather
heartless. However, she was glad that her
niece should appear to advantage at Madame
de Ferrand's in the evening, and watched
with amusement the admiring glances of the
two Frenchmen, M. de Montmirail and his
friend M. de Cernay, the ugly and good-natured,
who had come to the Deux Freres
for a day or two, and was highly entertained
by meeting the two English ladies
at dinner. He, however, did not venture
once to address Celia, who, for her part,
was quite clever enough not to shock
Madame de Ferrand by any English forwardness,
and though quite ready to talk to

322

the Marquis, kept her prettiest smiles for
Antoinette.

After dinner, in the smoking-room, Miss
Celia Darrell was for a long time the subject
of talk between M. de Cernay and M. de
Montmirail. M. de Cernay found his
friend's admiration a little too enthusiastic,
having himself no English mania.

If the young lady had been rich, as
they generally are,' he reflected  ' and if
she had not been engaged to a respectable
Englishman, I suspect la petite Antoinette
might tear her hair in vain, and we might
find ourselves with an English Protestant
neighbour.'

M. de Cernay made faces at the bare
idea of such a catastrophe, but did not
hint his suspicions to Achille, who was a
little high-flown, and might have resented
them.

He watched his friend rather carefully,
however, through the rest of the evening.
Of course there was no real danger, as Miss
Darrell was engaged ; but in spite of this,
M. de Cernay felt that he would have a
good deal of interesting description to take
home to his wife. She had always said
that the dear Marquis, in spite of all his
cheerful and dignified philosophy, would fall
foolishly in love some day.

They played that evening at Madame
de Ferrand's favourite Spanish game of
reversi.' Mrs. Percival was rather stupid,
but Celia learned it with astonishing quickness,
and they laughed a great deal, while
Antoinette looked over their shoulders. She
had quite lost her heart to Celia, who for
her part was delighted with these dear,
good - humoured people, and would have
really been as happy as she looked, if that

cloud had not been hanging on her horizon.
As she sat there at Madame de F errand's
card-table, her thoughts were wandering
between three subjects  the game she was
playing ; calculations as to when her letter
would reach Paul ; and M. de Montmirail,
the expression of whose eyes when they
met hers was, to say the least, amusing.
He did not mean it, of course, for he was
the soul of honour. Celia thought him
wonderfully handsome ; she reflected what
a chevalier he would have made in the olden
time, dressed in silks and satins and
feathers. He was certainly much handsomer
than Vincent, she thought, and much
pleasant to look at. Older, of course ;
but he looked younger, for his face was
smooth and happy, while Vincent's was
worn by ill-temper and a hot climate. Then
she inwardly laughed at herself for the comparison,

and smiled frankly at the Marquis,
and went on playing her game, while that
ugly little M. de Cernay talked in low tones
to Madame de Ferrand, and watched her all
the time.

Rather early in the evening they were
interrupted. A note was brought in to
M. de Montmirail, who looked at it, begged
his mother-in-law to excuse him for an
instant, and went out of the room. Ashe
got up from the table he glanced at
Celia ; it was a grave, startled, quite different
look, and she knew instantly that
in some way that note concerned her.
Somehow he looked sorry for her. What
was it ? Could anything have happened to
Paul?

Presently M. de Montmirail came back
again, and this time he really did look very
solemn, so that the old Vicomtesse, and

M. de Cernay, and Antoinette all exclaimed
together.

Celia's blue eyes deepened as she looked
at him, and she turned a little pale. He
went up to Mrs. Percival, who started with
surprise ; it had not occurred to her that
the note concerned any one but himself.

Madame he said, * I am truly sorry to
spoil such a pleasant evening, but I have
just seen my friend  your friend, Mr.
Romaine. It appears that he has brought
you some news. I beofo-ed him to come in,
ma mere,' said the Marquis, turning to
Madame de Ferrand, ' but he has not
long arrived from England, and his only wish
is to see these ladies. He tells me, too,
that he must oo back tomorrow mornings
therefore '

Mrs. Percival started up hurriedly.

Dear madame,' said Madame de Ferrand,

with the kindest politeness, * do not delay a
moment. We shall see you again. I only
hope the news is nothing serious.'

Celia followed her aunt out of the room
in a sort of dream. What could have brought
Paul now, so soon  before he could possibly
have received her letter ! With all her
high spirit, all her confidence in herself, and
in Paul's love, she dreaded the explanation
of that evening. Then a cloak was put
gently round her shoulders, and she looked
up for a moment, in the dim light of the
vestibule, into a face she could never afterwards
forget : it was so full of admiration,
of tenderness, and more than that. Celia
knew that she had made a conquest, but it
seemed a useless one : the adoration of the
most perfect of heroes would be no help to
her in her present scrape. In another
moment, the Marquis was attending on her

aunt, with the gravest politeness ; he now
looked rather pale and stern ; perhaps he
was angry at having forgotten himself for an
instant. The dear little Antoinette came
up close to Celia, took her hand and kissed
it softly.

'Oh, don't !' Celia whispered, and with a
quick caress she kissed the girl on both cheeks.

Are you sad V murmured Antoinette.
Are you afraid that ce monsieur has brought
bad news of the old friend ? Are you very
fond of him, too ?'

Yes  oh yes ; perhaps he has,' Celia
answered confusedly. ' My aunt is very
anxious.'

Shall we see you tomorrow V

I don't know. I hope so ;' and Celia
followed her aunt, Who had gone out into
the courtyard with M. de Montmirail ; they
were looking back for her.

In the few incidents of crossing the street
to the hotel, Celia was conscious of an intense
irritation against herself, against Paul, against
Vincent, her aunt, the whole world, not forgetting
those people who were tiresome
enough to be ill and die.

She hated long faces ; and she felt sure
that Colonel Ward was dead. All this had
come upon her too suddenly, and she was
not at all prepared to carry out the tactics
she had beoun in her useless letter to Paul
the niofht before. She was anorv, and felt
a little reckless and desperate.

When Paul, very quiet and very undemonstrative,
met them outside the Deux Freres,
and M. de Montmirail bowed and went back
to his house, Celia caught herself wishing
that she could go back with him. As they
walked into the hotel she heard Paul telling
her aunt about the Colonel ; she heard the

quick sob in her aunt's voice : ' Oh, poor
dear !' and she herself felt perfectly unmoved.


Paul did not speak to her. They had all
gone up into a little anteroom belonging to
Mrs. Percival's room, a narrow slip, piled
with boxes and parcels, and there Mrs.
Percival sat down and listened, and cried
now and then, for she was a soft-hearted
woman. She was too much absorbed to
notice anything strange or unnatural in Paul's
manner. Of course his grief was very deep,
and yet, if she had thought, what depth of
grief could make a division between him and
Celia, so that he could stand in a room
where she was sitting, and talk quietly on
with his eyes on the floor, without even
once looking at her ! Mrs. Percival did
not notice it, but Celia did, and in spite of
herself, she shivered as she sat there ; for

the first time in her Use she was afraid of
Paul.

But, my dear boy,' said Mrs. Percival
at last, ' what quantities of things you must
have to do ! Why did you come over ?
Really it was rather absurd. Why in the
world didn't you write or telegraph ?'

Because I had something to do here,'
Paul answered. ' I am o-oino- back tomorrow.
I want to talk to Celia about
something. Perhaps you wouldn't mind
leaving us alone together. Shall it be
now V he said, turning for the first time to
Celia.

 Now  certainly, if you like,' she answered,
in a tone as cold as his own.

Why  what is the matter ?' exclaimed
Mrs. Percival, suddenly waking up to the
situation, and looking in amazement from
one to the other.

Nothing said Celia, ' except that Paul
is angry with me.'

She leaned back in her chair and folded
her hands. She was looking down, and
flushed crimson. Paul turned a little whiter
than before.

But what is it ? Good gracious ! When
did it happen i What has she done, Paul ?'
cried Mrs. Percival.

He can't tell you,' said Celia in a low
tone, as Paul made no answer. ' Go away,
dear Aunt Flo, and leave us to fight it out.
You would have thought there was trouble
enough without this, wouldn't you V

I certainly am surprised that you should
both choose such a time for quarrelling,' said
Mrs. Percival.

She stood still for a moment, looking
anxiously, with tearful eyes, at the two incomprehensible
young people, who were both



staring obstinately at the ground. Then
she sighed, shrugged her shoulders, and went
away into her own room with a few parting
words.

I must say, if you persist in quarrelling
now, you will be very unfeeling and very
idiotic.'

A GREY DISCOURAGED SKY OVERHEAD, THE
SHORT LAST DAYLIGHT OF DECEMBER.'

Very unfeeling and very idiotic ! Poor
Aunt Flo ! Which of us is which, I
wonder V said Celia, and she laughed.

There had been a few moments of painful
silence, which she bore till she could bear it
no longer. There they were alone together,
Paul and she, in the smart little desolate
room which had been so often given up to
them lately, and where Paul, at least, had
spent so many happy quarters of an hour.

Many of M. Dupont's rooms were furnished
with spoils of old houses in the Faubourg
; white and gold chairs, with lovely
brocaded cushions ; mirrors, clocks, candlesticks,
in the most elegant rococo style. Mrs.
Percival's rooms were among the prettiest in
the hotel. Celia at this moment was leaning
back in an arm-chair, whose curves and
colouring would have delighted a connoisseur,
and white and gold Cupids danced up
the frame of the mirror in which Paul's
head was reflected, as he stood before the
fireplace. The proceeds of a long day's
shopping were piled on the floor ; there was
no fire, and the room was cold ; Celia
wrapped her cloak more closely round her,
and tapped impatiently with her foot upon
the ground.

Well, Paul V she said, as he stood unmoved
before her.

VOL. II. 33

Suppose we say that you are unfeeling,
and I am idiotic he answered quietly.

His whole tone and manner had altered
so completely, he had so utterly ceased to
be himself, that Celia wrinkled her brows
and gazed at him in astonishment. This was
not her adoring young lover, this was not the
affectionate, generous, trusting boy who had
written her that last letter full of wonder
and perplexity. He had been puzzled by
that mysterious letter of hers ; but it had
not interfered with his love, hardly with his
confidence. What had happened since to
make this change ?

Instinct told Celia that for some strange
reason she had lost her power, and yet she
could hardly believe it, and at that moment
all her thoughts and wishes were bent on
having it back again. Not that she loved
Paul, but she liked him to love her ; she

was very unwilling to lose his romantic
worship, and the promise of a Kfe of wealth,
indulgence, and liberty. But what was she
to do with a young man who would not
even look at her, standing there like a
stone !

I don't think I am unfeeling,' she said.
I wrote to you last night ; but of course,
tearing off like this, you did not get the
letter.'

What did you say ?'

I asked you to come back. If I had
known what you would be like, when you
did come  I think I might have asked you
to stay in England. Certainly I should not
have said all I did say.'

Will you answer me one question,
Celia ?' he said ; and then he lifted his head
and looked at her, with such wistful, sleepless
melancholy in his eyes, that almost any

332

woman would have been touched by it.
Celia was, in her way ; she saw that she
had brought this shadow on Paul, and
believed that she could clear it away  if
she only knew all that was in his mind.
An unworthy suspicion flashed across her
brain ; perhaps he had shown that letter to
the Colonel before he died, or to some other
odious person who had taken the worst
%iew of it.

She pointed to the chair beside her.

Come and sit here,' she said. ' I will
answer any questions you like.'

Thanks ; I'd rather stand,' said Paul.
 That letter you sent me  it was written
to somebody else, wasn't it ? Not meant
for me at all V

Who put that into your head ?' said
Celia ; and in spite of herself her eyes fell,
and she blushed crimson again.

Nobody ; I thought of it myself,' said
Paul. ' There was no name, and I naturally
read the letter several times, trying to
find out the meaning of it. Then that
occurred to me  which of course makes all
clear. Under the circumstances, you will
forgive me for reading the letter. Here it
is. I have brought it back to you.'

He came across the room, laid the letter
on her lap, and went back to his place on
the hearth-rug. She instantly tore the
letter into several pieces and threw them on
the ground.

Then Paul was really cruel. He said :

I thought you would not send it now.
You can write a different one.'

I never meant to send it at all,' she
said, in a half-choked voice. ' Of course it
was a most awful mistake sending it to you;
but I was in a great hurry '

As you wrote it, the best thing you
could do was to send it to me,' said Paul.
Seeing may be painful, but one would
rather not be kept blind.'

 But let me explain '

I really don't want any more explanation,'
he said. ' Don't you think, yourself,
that we understand each other well enough
now ? I did not hope for any explanation ;
it was all too clear. I only came to say
good-bye.'

Celia sat perfectly still, looking down at
her torn letter. Paul turned half away,
resting his arm on the chimney-piece ; but
this was only for a minute. He suddenly
straightened himself up, drew a long breath,
looked at her with the same pain in his eyes,
and said in a low voice :

Well, good-bye !'

Then Celia made a ofreat effort. For the

sake of bringing him back, she conquered
her pride, her anger, and other feelings too.
She got up, came quickly to him where he
stood, laid her hand in his and her head
against his shoulder.

Not good-bye to me, Paul V she said.

He looked down for an instant into her
lovely face ; and then rather wildly away
from her. He did not even let his fingers
close on hers, but said very low, between
his teeth :

How can you  when you know  that I
know ! And it has been always like this !'

Celia stepped back from him to a little
sofa close by, and sat down there, clasping
her hands, and looking up at him imploringly.


Oh, Paul,' she whispered, ' I was so
poor ; and you were so good to me. It
was the first and last and only letter  I

said that, didn't I ? I had to Yite to him,
don't you see, because he wanted me to
break off my engagement. I never meant
to do that.'

Xo,' said Paul. ' You said you were
not brave enough.'

I couldn't help it. I wish I had never
seen him. Indeed, I never flirted with him,
or brought it on myself in any way. The
only wi'onor things I have done was to
scribble that letter ; and I did not mean to
send it. I meant to white another, quite a
cold one, that you, or anybody in the world,
mioht have read. I really was cano-rv 4th
him for writing to me, when he might have
known it was of no use. Paul, forget that
nonsensical letter. I did not mean half I
said in it. Paul, I want you to forgive me.
Whv have you chant-ed in this dreadful way ?
But of course it must be as you please.'

The tears were running down Celia's face,
but Paul would not look at her.

I suppose it is Vincent Percival V he
said ; and then he threw himself into a low
chair, and hid his face in his arms on the end
of the sofa.

Yes,' said Celia more steadily. ' He
was foolish enough to fall in love with me
last summer ; but he did not know I was
engaged. Aunt Flo and I never mean to
have a secret again. It was very tiresome
just the last day  when you were there,
too. If you had not been so good, and
generous, and angelic, I don't know what
I should have done  at least, there miofht
have been some sort of row, for I never
dreamed, Paul  I never dreamed of throwing
you over for him. Still, it is too true
that you have never really understood me.
Haven't I told you so ? haven't I told you

that some day you would find me out, and
think me a fiend V

I don't think you a fiend said Paul.
 But I see that you never have cared forme,
and never will. If we marry we shall
be two unhappy people. And there are
circumstances  you will know some day 
which make me feel justified in telling
you so.'

But, Paul,' she said, ' I don't think we
should be unhappy. I will be very good,
and I do like you to care for me, you know.
If this horrid accident had not come to part
us, you would never have thought of it.'

No, because I believed  however, I
know I am doing what is right for us both,'
he said.

Very well ; as you please ; I can say no
more,' said Celia. ' You can't bear the
truth, and you can't forgive ; as for me, I

can't go on excusing myself for ever. Goodbye,
then

She made a Httle movement, but did not
actually get up from the sofa. Looking
at the dark bent head so near her, the
strange creature almost felt as if she
really cared for Paul. She lifted her hand,
as if she meant to touch his hair, but
quickly dropped it again, for he looked up
and began to speak.

I will not marry a woman who only
cares for my money. You have said so
plainly, though you meant to deceive me to
the end. Perhaps it was not your fault.
As for Vincent  he is a villain.'

Look here,' she said, ' steak against meas
much as you like, but don't tell anyone
about him. Remember that is my secret,
and you only found it out by accident. I
can trust you, can't I ?'

I am not likely to talk about you or
him,' said Paul. ' This is no one's business
except yours and mine.'

I'm afraid ' said Celia, hesitating.

I think  don't you  Aunt Flo and Uncle
Tom will want to know the meaning
of it.'

Well, you can't tell them the truth, of
course,' said Paul, rather bitterly. ' Say
what you please. Say that I am too stupid
for you, and that you can't stand me any
longer.'

If I can't tell the truth I need not
invent fresh lies,' said Celia, and she
laughed.  Besides, it would be no use,
for they wouldn't believe me. Aunt Flo
knows me too well ; she won't give me
credit for all that romantic impatience.
They will be in an awful state, of course ;
and they will think you a very changeable

person. I really don't know what Uncle
Tom will say.'

Paul lifted his head. He was very pale
and frowning. It had not occurred to him
before that Canon and Mrs. Percival would
think his behaviour dishonourable ; and of
course it was utterly impossible for him
to justify himself by betraying Celia. He
began to see that, after all, the matter
was in her hands more than in his own.
His brain, half confused by grief and sleeplessness,
beofan to wake to the fact that
he was putting himself and Celia in an
extremely awkward position. And Celia,
meanwhile, sat looking across the room at
those boxes and parcels piled against the
wall. Paul was obliged to remember, as
his eyes followed hers, that marriage, after
all, involves a good deal besides sentiment,
or even passion.

At the same time, he knew that he could
tell Celia something which would probably
change her views and reduce his own importance
immensely. He understood her well
enough now ; how could he help it ? She
had bared her soul, poor thing, in that
letter, every word of which seemed to burn
before his eyes. Riches, comfort, indulgence
 these were all the things she cared
for in life ; for these she meant to marry
him ; she would not have given up these
for Vincent, the only man, it seemed, who
had ever touched her heart at all. Paul
knew very well that if he could say to her,
You are rich yourself ; money is nothing
to you. Colonel Ward has left you seventy
thousand pounds,' he would gain his freedom
without any further argument. But he
could not say it ; he could not stand there
and watch Celia, the woman he had so

loved and honoured, while she degraded
herself still further in his eyes.

It may be said that Paul was absurdly
high-flown, refined, and idealistic ; but we
must remember that he was a * muff,' a
rather peculiar, old-fashioned young man
knowing: little of the world and of women,
brought up chiefly in a solitary place, shy,
and not easily making friends of his own
age, very much guided by the tastes and
opinions of the one dear old friend who
had now left him. We are quite ready to
acknowledge that there are not many
characters like Paul ; neither are there
many people who can understand him when
they meet him.

He left his chair  somehow it was too
near Celia  and went back and stood on
the hearth rug, looking down at the floor.
She turned her head towards him, and

watched him with shining eyes ; she was
trying very hard, still, to think of some
means that would bring him back to her.
She half despised herself, too, being conscious
that a girl with any real pride would
not have borne so many repulses, but would
have left him long ago. ' Oh, bother
pride !' thought Celia to herself ' I can't
afford any nonsense of that sort. Three
more years, at least, to hang about at
Woolsborough, depending on Aunt Flo 
and then, if I do go to India, very soon
to be something rather like a black slave
no, Paul, I can't let you leave me to
that, I can't really.'

After a minute or two she followed Paul
to the fireplace, standing near him with her
hand on the chimney-piece, and looking up
into his face.

So it wasn't me that you loved,' she said.

in a very low voice  ' only the girl you
thought I was V

How could I help it V said Paul
quickly.

Do you suppose that people ever really
know each other V she went on. ' There
must always be a lot of faults  a lot of
hidden ones. You never can read a person's
character like a book. Not often, at least :
because, dear Paul, for instance, one might
go all over the world without meeting
another innocent soul like yours. I wish I
was as good as you ; I do indeed. But let
me tell you, though you think me worse
than other women, we are alike, most of us.
You will never, never meet a woman who
will love you as unselfishly as you love her.'

Don't talk nonsense, Celia !' he said,
rather sternly. * And  you know I shall
never care for anybody again.'

VOL. II. 34

She answered with a dismal little laugh :
Then don't you think you might as well
forgive me V

The only answer he made to this was to
turn round, take her in his arms, and kiss
her  a long, last kiss. He felt sure it was
that, though she, joyful and astonished, could
only think of her triumph. Yes, he would
marry her now : all would be forgotten ;
and she would take care never to lose
the love that she had kept with so much
difficulty.

What fools we were !' she whispered.
Dear, I am so tired of Paris. Let us go
back with you to England tomorrow.'

Paul had flushed crimson.

I beg your pardon,' he said. ' I ought

not ' And then, as she stood there with

her hands on his arm, he went on in a quick,
low voice : ' Xo, you must stay here for

the present. I must go back ; there is so multo
do. But I will write in a few days to Mrs.
Percival, and she will show you the letter.
Then you shall decide. If you choose, in
spite of everything, that our marriage shall goon,
it shall. I tell you, I think it had better
not, and if you agree with me, no one shall
ever blame you. Good-night, and good-bye.'

But, Paul, what do you mean V

 I can't explain  I would rather not talk
any more now,' he said from the door.
Yes, there was one thing I wanted to tell
you. The Colonel said, not honos before his
death, you know, that he would like you to
have Di.'

 Di !' Celia repeated, staring at him.

Yes, Di ; his Clumber spaniel, the one
that was always with him.'

 Oh ! good gracious ! How very sweet
of him ! But I have got one already.'

34  2

Mrs. Percival's natural curiosity was not,
and never would be, fully satisfied ; but her
mind was a good deal relieved when Celia
came into her room, flushed and smiling, the
outer door having been shut on Paul.

Is it all right ? What was the matter V
Mrs. Percival asked anxiously. ' Come and
sit down by the fire, Celia ; you must be
very cold.'

She was herself sitting comfortably with
a screen in her hand, Alarming her feet, and
a bright little fire was blazing up the chimney.
She looked very soft, and snug, and
pleasant ; she was a most agreeable sight,
even now, when her handsome brown eyes
were heavy with the tears she had given to
her old lover.

Celia came and leaned over the fire,
stretching out her hands to it.

I suppose it is all right,' she said. * My

young man is the very oddest young man 
lie takes the queerest fancies into his head.
He loves mystery, which I hate. I wonder
if there is any madness in the family.'

No, certainly not !' cried Mrs. Percival
indignantly. ' But can't you tell me 
what is it that Paul has oot into his
head V

 No, I can't tell you exactly, Aunt Flo,'
said Celia. ' I think I have driven it out
again. He rather thinks I am not good
enough for him.'

That I can't believe,' said Mrs. Percival.
Paul worships and adores you. He has a
much higher idea of you than  you deserve,
my dear.'

 Well, I don't know,' said Celia, gazing
into the fire. ' If he has, it is very nice of

him. But if you understand  one would

/

rather be a little less adored, and a little

more trusted. The poor dear thing is
desperately morbid  perhaps it is no
wonder.'

Of course he is unhappy ; this is a trying
time for him,' said Mrs. Percival. ' Well 
it is true, Celia  I have thought him a little
morbid sometimes. I have told him that he
ought to trust you more, that he was too
sensitive for his own happiness. You see,
you are rather a difficult kind of girl for a
young fellow like Paul to understand. In
fact,' she went on, sighing, ' I don't think
you are really suited to each other, and I
have sometimes been afraid that I ought not
to have encouraged it. You see, Celia, you
don't care for him quite enough, and when
he is a little less blinded by his admiration
for you  I don't know  there maybe
unhappiness  jealousy, perhaps. However
'

Who could Paul be jealous of*' said
Celia sharply.

Oh, I don't know,' said Mrs. Percival
more lightly. ' Of M. de Montmirail, for
instance, who admires you so much.'

They both laughed. Neither of them
had any wish to go deeper into the subject.

Dear M. de Montmirail !' said Celia.
Now if I was a French girl, with heaps of
money  what fun it would be to restore that
jolly old chateau that his little girl was telling
me about !'

They certainly are charming people,'
said Mrs. Percival.

Charming ! I never saw such people.
They make you so perfectly happy and contented
with yourself Sweet creatures !
they are never serious and disagreeable. I
love them. I wonder if M. le Marquis will
ever marry again V

Madame de F errand told me something
about that,' said Mrs. Percival. ' She said
he had thought of it ; but gave it up again
because the idea made his Httle daughter so
unhappy.'

Selfish little goose ! Why, it would bea
very good thing for her,' said Celia.

She had settled herself on a low stool in
front of the fire, which was inconsiderately
burning her face. Mrs. Percival watched
her from behind her screen. She was not
quite easy in her mind, and felt that she
would be glad when the wedding was safely
over, and her responsibility at an end. She
felt sure that, in spite of Celia's light talk,
the thoughts that occupied her where rather
serious too. Sitting there in the firelight,
the girl's face was more thoughtful and
anxious than her aunt had ever seen it
before. Not angry, not unreasonable, as

she had been when Paul went away to the
Colonel. This was something deeper than
that. It was no use asking questions, for
Celia would not answer them ; but Mrs.
Percival felt more and more sure that there
was something behind, something she was
not intended to know. Well  and she herself
knew something that Celia did not
know, at least she supposed not ; and she
did not exactly feel any wish to tell
her.

Did Paul tell you if the Colonel had left
him anything ?' she asked presently, in a low
voice.

No ; but most likely he has  everything,
I should think,' said Celia. ' Unless he has
left it to you, Aunt Flo.'

Oh no ; not to me.'

sto Paul, no doubt. But they don't
read people's wills, do they, till after the

funeral. By-the-bye, he has left me something.'


What V said Mrs. Percival.

Her heart gave a sudden jump, and she
looked hard at Celia, who answered indifferently
enough.

Oh, well, poor dear, Paul says I am to
have that old dog he was so fond of;' and
Mrs. Percival said nothing.

After some time she sighed, and laid down
her screen.

I must have a talk with Paul,' she said.
I want to know a great many things.'

Xot to-night ; he's tired to death,' said
Celia.

To-morrow morning, then. Tell me,
Celia, did you really part friends V

Oh, the best of friends. Good-night,
Aunt Flo.'

When Mrs. Percival sent to Paul in the

morning, he had cheaply started for England.
She was at first doubtful whether she and
Celia had not better follow him ; but Celia
objected to this so decidedly that she resigned
herself, and waited.

Colonel Ward was laid under the snow in
the high churchyard of Holm, where the
starlings cried over his head, and the old
bells rang in the wooden steeple. All around
were the glory and shadow of the hills, and
nearer, lower down, the solemn depth of the
pine-wood. He was followed to his grave
by a few old friends and acquaintances ; Paul
Romaine, the doctor, Mr. Cole, Mr. Bailey
the agent, one or two old brother officers
and neighbours who honoured him, though
they did not know him very well. The snow
was too deep for Canon Percival to come
from Woolsborough ; but he wrote Paul a

very generous and sympathizing letter. The
service was read by the Vicar of John, a
good, rather puzzled young man, to whom
Colonel Ward, in his solitary life, had always
been a subject of some anxiety. Di came
with Paul, and laid herself down by the
grave ; afterwards she would not leave it,
till Paul actually carried her away.

Dr. Graves, who had been both hurt and
cynically amused by Paul's hurried journey
to Paris the day after his old friend's death,
now found that the young man must be
restored to his old place in his esteem.
Nothing could be better, more business-like,
more proper in every way, according to the
doctor's ideas, than young Romaine's behaviour
before, at, and after the funeral. He
was quite calm, and quite clear-headed. Mr.
Cole, the lawyer, found him a most satisfactory
executor ; his only fault, perhaps.

was an absolute absence of any show of
feelings ; he took it rather too much as a
matter of course that Colonel Ward's unexpectedly
large fortune should be almost all
divided between himself and the girl he was
going to marry. The only thing which
seemed to give him a faint touch of pleasure
was the Colonel's wish that Mrs. Percival
should have his old china and other ornaments
; also his diamonds, ' except those
now in her hands, of which she already
knows the destination.' Paul did not know
what this meant ; but in the dark sad evening
of that day, in the study at his own old
house, from which he had turned out the
workmen for the present, he sat down and
wrote a formal business letter to Mrs. Percival,
telling her, and begging her to tell
Celia, all the particulars of the Colonel's
will.

When he had finished that letter he wrote
a few lines to Celia, and told her she would
now see how entirely the future was in her
own hands. ' If it is to be good-bye,' he
said, ' I think I shall go abroad at once, fora
long time : in the other case, you will do
as you please. Do not keep me very long
in suspense.'

Who can say what he wished in his
heart? The hardest thing in the whole
world is to remember the unworthiness of
our dearest.

Anyhow, here ends the story of Paul
Romaine's first love.

END OF PART I.

THE HERO S RETURN.

In the old cit' of Woolsborough, there was
nothing to mark the lapse of more than four
years. Day by day, Dr. Chanter's organ
and the Cathedral choir sent up their music
to the lofty stone roof, possibly higher still.
Week by week, crowds came on Sunday evening
to listen to their favourite preachers, as
Paul and Celia did once, and perhaps some
of them altered their lives a little in consequence.
Sometimes, at sunset, the great
west window was illumined, as Paul had
seen it when he came back from that walk
VOL. II. 35

of his. Down in the back streets leading to
the river, which flowed on under its bridges
as usual, men and women lounged about and
sat on their begrimed doorsteps, and would
as soon have thought of climbing up into
heaven on a rainbow, as of going up the hill
and across the Close to the great church
whose bells shook the air all round them, and
where their forerunners certainly worshipped
four hundred years ago.

Canon and Mrs. Percival still lived at
River Gate. They spent most of the year
there now, having given up their little house
at Holm. The Canon was beginning to bea
little restless, and secretly to think himself
overlooked by Bishops and Government ; butin
appearance he was unchanged. Mrs.
Percival had gone through a good deal of
worry, and there were a few more lines in
her face ; but she had found peace and

comfort in doing up her drawing-room,
which now was really beautiful ; in it
Colonel Ward's old china and French enamels
had at last found a sphere where they
could shine.

And now Vincent had come home from
India, and his mother had welcomed him
with real, heartfelt joy. On a lovely April
afternoon, while the sun was shining peacefully
over the terraces bright with spring
flowers, and the Cathedral bells in a soft
dreamy cadence were chiming for service, she
was strolling up and do\\Ti with her hand
in Vincent's arm, and they were talking of
things that had happened since he went
away. Vincent, who had arrived the night
before, was really glad to see his mother
aofain ; his father did not interest him. He
was pleased at the loving welcome she gave
him ; he had been roughing it a good deal of

352

late years, had been through a small war
with some frontier tribes, where he was
slightly wounded, and could now, with herat
least, be a hero to his heart's content.
He was a thin, yellow, sunburnt, fierce-looking
man ; he looked, in fact, even more
positively ill-tempered than when he went
out, four years and a half ago ; but in this
case, perhaps, appearances were deceitful ;
his mother had not heard him say a cross
word yet, and thought he had come home
charming.

Of course they soon began to talk of
Celia, a rather painfully interesting subject
to them both.

She certainly was the making of the
place, that summer,' Vincent said, as his
eyes wandered over the garden where Celia
used to walk.  How confoundedly pretty she
was, the little witch ! I couldn't get her out

of my head for a long time. Is she as pretty-now
V

I suppose so said Mrs. Percival. ' I
believe she is very well, and happy, and all
that. You know I have only seen her once
since her marriage, and that was in Paris,
two years ago. She has asked us to go down
and see them, but I really didn't much care
about it, and your father quite disliked the
idea. He was so shocked at her turning
Roman Catholic'

Well, the best thing she could do, as she
married one,' said Vincent. ' I suppose he
and his people insisted on it.'

Not exactly, but it smoothed over difficulties.
Last year there was some talk of
their coming to stay with the Lefroys, which
would have been very awkward for us. I
was glad it was given up.'

Nonsense 1 Who would think it awkward

? Nobody but my father. I wish
they would come this year. I should like
to see Celia again

 I don't care very much to see her said
Mrs. Percival sadly.

 Why, my dear old woman, she has done
you no harm. As for her breaking off with
that ass Romaine, it was quite right ; she
never could have cared for him. Besides,
I understood you to say that they quarrelled,
and it was as much his doing as
hers.'

I never could quite make out the history
of that affair,' said Mrs. Percival. ' Paul
was devoted to her. I feel convinced she
must have done something that cut him up
terribly, though she never would allow it tome.
Something was wrong, just at the time
of dear old Colonel Ward's death. But
Celia would never have broken off with Paul

if that money had not been left her. That,
of course, made everything easy. She was
ready to find out, then, that she and Paul
could never get on together.'

I say she was right.'

'She was heartless and ungrateful, Vincent.
Well, I soon began to see what would happen.
She had taken a violent fancy to these French
people ; and as soon as she knew of her
fortune, and had broken off her engagement,
which she did instantly, she absolutely threw
herself into their arms. Nothing was ever
settled in such a frightful hurry. I think
even M. de Montmirail was almost ashamed,
having only made our acquaintance through
poor Paul, but he was desperately in love
with Celia ; so was his daughter, and so was
his mother-in-law, Madame de F errand.
She came to talk to me about it. Of course,
Celia was perfectly independent. I could

not influence her one way or the other, and
she made up her mid at once. She declared
said Mrs. Percival, laughing a little,
that she was in love for the first time in
her life. I did not quite believe her ; I
think it was partly pique, and partly excitement,
and the fun of doing anything so unusual.
M. de Montmirail was very good-looking,
too, and just as much her slave as
Paul, only in a more amusing sort of way.
Celia and I had laughed about his admiration
for her before I ever dreamed of her
marrying him. I knew about the money,
though, before she did. Colonel Ward told
me as a secret ; she was to know on her
wedding-day.'

I wonder the Colonel left it to her absolutely,'
said Vincent. ' I wonder he didn't
make her marrying Paul Romaine a condition
; that was weak, Paul being such a

favourite of his. He never raeant to send
his money to France, poor old chap.'

'' Ah ! that was Paul's doing,' said Mrs.
Percival.

How do you mean V

Dr. Graves, the Colonel's doctor, you
know, told your father something about it
when he was last at Holm. I think the
lawyer who made the will had told him, when
everybody was so surprised at Paul's engagement
being broken off suddenly, and all the
preparations stopped, poor boy ! It seems
that the Colonel told Paul what he was
going to do, and asked him whether the
legacy to Celia should be conditional. And
he said " certainly not." If he had said
'' yes," no doubt everything would have
come to him. The lawyer and Dr. Graves
were both sure that that was the Colonel's
intention.'

Of course, Romaine never imagined a
slip was possible,' said Vincent. ' Just the
sort of fellow to oo blundering: on with his-eyes
shut.'

Oh, I don't know,' said Mrs. Percival.
There was a shadow, even then. There
was something wiong ; he was not happy
about Celia. Directly after the Colonel
died he rushed over to Paris, and they had
rather a scene, I know, though Celia made
light of it to me. In that affair of the will,
I believe Paul behaved very generously.'

Behaved like a muff, I should say,' said
Vincent. ' And what became of him ?
Where is the poor forsaken youth now ?'

I really don't know. He went off to
America as soon as he could, and I think
he has been all over the world. I have
never seen him since. As for Holm and
the old house, it really is too sad and desolate

now. It was all left unfinished, and
has been standing empty ever since. The
old servants look after it, and the agent sees
to the estate, and the woods, and so on.
Colonel Ward's doors live there ; his cottage
is never even let in the summer ; sometimes
ours is. I wish Paul would write to me
sometimes, for certainly the crash was no
fault of mine. I was very sorry. I always
liked him so much.'

I wonder what it was that they quarrelled
about,' said Vincent, after a minute
or two. ' I wonder if it can have been
about a letter of mine to Celia, to which
she sent me a very cold answer, the day
after Colonel Ward died. In that letter
there were certainly no signs of her breaking
off with Romaine. Therefore I was
startled when I heard of all the changes so
soon after.'

' What was your letter about V said
Mrs. Percival. ' I heard nothing of it, I
think.'

Not likely that you would. I suggested
to Celia that she mioht as well throw him
over before it was too late, and marry me.
I deceived myself into an idea that she
liked me. But that niece of yours is a
desperate flirt.'

I think she is. But that was very
wrong of you, Vincent. However, I don't
see how Paul could possibly have known of
that ; she would never have told him.'

No ; I don't suppose she would,' said
Captain Percival, taking no notice of his
mother's gentle blame.

I often thought of your fancy for Celia,
which vexed me so much at the time,' she
went on. ' When I heard that she was to
have all that money, my first thought was

of you  how it mitrlit have taken away all
difficulties.'

Yes, it was hardly fair that a Frenchman
should have carried off my luck,' said
Vincent. ' But I suppose she liked him
best. Queer girl ! Well, she broke
Romaine's heart, perhaps, but not mine. I
have lived very comfortably without her.'

Everything is for the best, I dare say,'
said Mrs. Percival peacefully. ' When
Celia lived with me, in spite of her pretty
face and pleasant was, I never was quite
sure about her. She was selfish, like her
poor father ; she had very little real feeling.
She liked to be liked ; but beyond that,
I don't think she cared much about making



other people happy. Well, my dear, we
have talked about her enouoii. Now leto



me hear something about yourself.'

This was a subject on which Vincent

was always ready to enlarge. He had a
fine stock of grievances, which were generally
sent home by post ; but they naturally
wanted talking over. To-day, however, he
was less self-occupied than usual, and the
subject of Celia seemed to linger in his
mind. After some time, when his mother
suggested going in to tea, he delayed her to
ask a few more questions.

You hear from the young woman sometimes,
I suppose ? What sort of life does
she lead ? Is she in Paris a good deal V

Only for a few weeks in the year. At
first they were there very often, when
Madame de Ferrand was alive, and they
went to stay with her. But she died two
years ago ; and now they live chiefly down
at the old chateau in the country, where
they have plenty of neighbours, and have
been very busy restoring the house  with

Celia's money. M. che Montmirail is very
fond of the place, and very popular there ;
he manages a lot of public business. His
daughter is growing up ; she must be seventeen
or eighteen now.'

Does Celia find her a bore ?'

No, I think not ; she always speaks of
her kindly. The girl is very fond of her, I
believe.'

I should rather like to see that menage.
Madame la Marquise ! What a joke !' said
Vincent, as he followed his mother in at the
drawing-room window.

CHAPTER II.

MADAME DE MONTMIRAIL.

It was a bright May morning in France ;
one of those days which the people there
call jours de cristal, so clear and transparent
is the air. The world lay in brilliant
sunshine and black shadow ; the trees were
motionless, only now and then a gentle
breath brought wafts of scent from the
acacia and pink may. All shades of tender
green, and brown, and gold, were painted as
the pre-Raphaelites saw them, on a clear
hard background of blue, dazzling sky. Old
Pierre was already going round to shut the

shutters, and to let down the sun-binds
outside the salon windows, for Madame la
Marquise could not endure rooms flooded
with light. M. le Marquis, who was of a
different opinion, and sometimes threatened
though he never carried out his threat 
to pull shutters open and blinds up in the
full glare of mid-day, had just driven off in
his dogcart to the station, so that Pierre
could work his will unrestrained. Pierre
was not particularly fond of his English
mistress, who, finding herself absolute ruler,
had not thought much about being popular
with the old servants. In fact, she had imported
a household of new ones, only keeping
Pierre and Suzanne because it seemed
impossible to send them away, and Suzanne
was useful in looking after Antoinette.
Pierre's ferocious honesty and loyalty were
also good in their way. There might have
VOL. II. 36

been two parties in the house, mademoiselle
having her passionate partisans both there
and in the village, headed by Pierre and
Suzanne. But mademoiselle herself was far
too loyal and gentle for any complication of
this sort. She had walked down to the
avenue to look after her father as he drove
away, and was coming slowly back across
the broad, white, sunlit court, an old
Clumber spaniel walking gravely beside her,
and a little black-andaman terrier. Rataplan,
running here and there.

Antoinette had grown a good deal since
she was fourteen, but she was by no means
tall, and she did not hold herself very
well ; perhaps French girls seldom do.
She had very little colour, but the soft
cream tint of her complexion was not unhealthy
; her features, of course, had all
their young delicate beauty ; though her

face was grave in repose, her large dark
eyes were full of smiles and sweetness. Her
hair was black and thick and curly as ever,
though it no longer fell in a mane upon her
shoulders. People who had known her
mother, the Marquise, who had died so
young, were startled by the likeness. Still
Antoinette, at eighteen, hardly looked grownup.
She tied her hair together with a red
or blue ribbon ; practised her music two
hours a day ; wrote translations ; and went
about all the morning in a large holland
pinafore. She fed her chickens, worked in
her own little garden, went to Mass with
Suzanne at six o'clock every morning, played
games with the dogs ; and now and then,
though very seldom, went out walking, or
driving, or riding with her father. She had
had a governess for a year or two after she
left the convent, chosen b} her grands

 2

mother ; but in this case Madame de
Ferrand's arrangements had not been quite
so happy as usual. The good woman worried
Antoinette, and bored the Marquise ; she
was sent away. Then Madame de F errand
died, and Antoinette was quite left in the
hands of her stepmother, who kissed her,
and laughed, and told her she was much
too clever and pretty to want any more
education. Achille did not interfere ; he
never differed seriously with his wife ; and
so the girl was left to her own devices.
Nobody cared ; certainly not Antoinette,
who accepted the situation, as it concerned
only herself, with light-hearted indifference,
and went on working at her lessons, steadily
and alone. Suzanne was too happy that
her little mademoiselle should be restored to
her. In truth, the only people who made
any remarks on the subject were Monsieur

and Madame de Cernay ; though they had
themselves planned a second marriage for
Achille, they were never reconciled to his
marrying an Englishwoman, and were ready
to think the little Antoinette a much ill-used
girl. They were an exception in the neighbourhood,
which generally received the new
Marquise with great kindness, and was never
tired of admiring her beauty, and her good
taste in dress and furniture. Achille, withall
his good-nature, was a sensitive man ; he
knew well enough what the Cereals thought
of him, and as a matter of fact, the old
intimate friendship between Saint-Bernard
and La Tour Blanche had ceased for ever.

As Mdlle. de Montmirail crossed the
court, she was met and stopped by an old
peasant woman coming back from the kitchen
door. The old hard face was pinched with
time and poverty ; the cap was no longer

white ; the short jacket and petticoat were
in rags ; the feet were stuck bare into sabots ;
but a kindly smile and a quick torrent of
jokes and compliments were ready for
'Mdlle. le Marquis.' She must peep into
the basket, and see what a fine store of
scraps the cook had put into it ; and then
she must listen to a long story of the son
who had come home from the army, and all
his joy at seeing his old mother again.

This went on till the breakfast-bell of the
chateau clanged out over their heads,
making it plain that mademoiselle must go
in, so Mere Clopin trotted off with her
smiling face and her rags and her basket,
and Antoinette walked on. But quick steps
came trotting up behind her, and she turned
round to meet the postman, a soldierly-looking
old fellow, with a long moustache
and a faded sort of uniform, who took off

his cap with a great flourish, and begged
to hand mademoiselle the letters for the
family.

With all these hindrances, Antoinette
arrived at last in the dining-room to find
her stepmother waiting for her, and the soup
getting cold.

Come, petite' said the Marquise, from
the depths of her large chair, ' must you be
late because your father is not here V

Pardon, maman,' said Antoinette. ' I
went down to the avenue to see the last of
him, and then I stopped to talk to Mere
Clopin, and then tie facteur overtook me 
and here are your letters.'

That Mere Clopin of yours is an unconscionable
old beggar,' said Madame de
Montmirail, in English.

She took the letters in her pretty white
hands, laid aside those belonging to her

husband, and slowly looked over her own.
She had a habit of talking English to
Antoinette ; besides that French was not by
any means entirely easy to her, it seemed
like carrying on the girl's education, and
thus made her conscience comfortable. When
M. de Montmirail was there, however, they
generally talked French ; and English, especially
at meals, was a tremendous offence to
old Pierre, who considered it supremely bad
manners towards himself and the smart
young man who helped him.

There was a sort of cloud that morning
on Celia's face, generally bright and good-humoured
enough. The cloud deepened as
she looked over her letters, took out one
from among them, and actually frowned over
it. But she did not open it till she had
finished her soup  cold soup being a thing
she detested.

Some people thought that CeHa had improved
in looks since her marriage, and no
one could deny that she was an exceedingly
handsome woman. The clear look, the look
of youth and innocence, and frank love of
fun, which in spite of all her faults used to
shine in her blue eyes, had darkened, hardened
into something different, though the eyes
were expressive enough still. The slight
young figure was gone too ; she had grown
into a large and rather lazy-looking woman,
and being English, unlike Madame de Cernay,
had lost a good deal of life and brilliancy in
the change. But still she was good-natured
and kind, and ready to enjoy everything
pleasant that came in her way. Perhaps
she was a little disappointed in life, on the
whole, and had found it rather less easy than
she expected to throw herself into all her
new surroundings ; perhaps her Achille was

a little too much devoted, and bored her
slightly sometimes with the overwhelming
crowd of his attentions ; still, she would not
have liked any change in Achille, and she
did not tell anyone what she felt in her heart
that these people were too good for her.

As to Achille, he had quite forgotten his
first impression of Celia   There is something
of the devil in that woman.' To him
his wife was perfection ; in the whole world
there was no one so charming. He would
have liked to tell M. de Cernay a great deal
about her ; in fact, the impossibility of this
was the only trouble he had.

When the Marquise had finished her soup,
she took up the letter and opened it, and
read it deliberately. A slow flush stole over
her delicate skin, and her lips trembled with
the slightest of smiles.

The letter was evidently rather interesting,

though practically not more so than the
excellent breakfast, of which dish followed
dish with great rapidity.

Let me see, what is to-day ? Wednesday
V said the Marquise.  And your father
will not be at home till Saturday.'

Perhaps not till Sunday,' said Antoinette.
Unless you send for him, and then he will
come home directly. I wish you would,
maman ! Five days ; it is perfectly enormous
!'

Quite out of the question ! Five days !'
repeated Celia. ' But I can't send for him
unless you choose to be ill.'

I am never ill. You must be ill yourself,'
said Antoinette, laughing.

 It is no use ; we are all as strong as
Hercules. Anyhow, I can tell him he must
come home on Saturday, because  and yet
why should it matter ?'

She asked this question of herself, seemingly
; then her eyes fell on the letter again ;
then she stared out of the window, playing
an impatient tune with her fingers on the
polished table. Then she drank her coffee,
and then met the gaze of Antoinette's rather
puzzled dark eyes.

Ah, you don't know what I am talking
about ?' she said. ' Tiens ! Do you know
this writing ?' and she held up an envelope
with the Paris post-mark.

No,' said Antoinette. ' I never saw it
before, but it is the writing of an Englishman.
Papa's cousin. Sir John Lefroy,
writes a little like that ; but this is not
from him.'

Fee, fo, fum !' and Celia began to laugh.
So you can find out an Englishman. Don't
look so amazed, ma helle. Come into the
salon, and I'll tell you all about it.'

In the salon the sun-binds were down,
but long rays of light fell across the shining
floor. It was a very different room from
what it used to be, shabby, dingy, and
damp-stained. The ceiling and chimney-piece
were gorgeously painted, the walls
were hung with fine old tapestry, and the
rows of stately high-backed chairs relaxed
so far as to admit a few very comfortable
ones, for the repose of modern bones. In
the corners and the windows, great broad-leaved
plants threw shadows. There was
a good deal of rich colour, all subdued intone.
Everyone who saw the restored
salon agreed that Madame de Montmirail
had made a distinguished success. Even
Madame de Cernay was obliged to admire
it, though she could not help saying that
its one want was the want of original ideas.
But this was absurd, after all, for with the

 style Louis Treize ' to guide you, what do
you want with originality ?

Celia sat down in one of the comfortable
chairs, between two long lines of sunlight,
and laid her letters on a table close by,
except that interesting one, which she kept
in her hand.

Antoinette, in her large pinafore, arranged
herself on a 2<Hf   j ' dark head
bent forward to listen ; she looked like a
little image of polite attention.

First I must tell you who this letter is
from,' said her stepmother. ' It is from a
certain creature named Vincent Percival.'

A relation of Madame Percival V said
Antoinette.

Not far wrong, petite. A near relation ;
her son  her only son  her only child, and
therefore a great treasure  besides being
my first cousin.'

Mais parfaitement /' murmured Antoinette.


You are wondering that you never heard
of him before ? Well, he has been in India
half his life  but stop, did not you hear me
telling your father, some weeks ago, how he
had been in a small fight or two on the
frontier, and had been wounded in the
shoulder ? You were not there ? Well,
it doesn't matter ; so it was. I have not
seen him for nearly five years ; before I
was married. I knew he had come home ;
I heard it from my aunt the other day.
Now this celebrated hero is in Paris, and
writes to ask if he may come down here on
Saturday. We used to be friends, you
understand. He was kinder to me than
some of my relations  when I was a very-poor
girl, and had no home.'

 But then you will be delighted to see

him. It is well ; it is very well,' said
Antoinette, in her pretty broken English.

Yes, I should like to see him. Anyhow,
I suppose he must come,' said Celia,
and then she dropped into silence, and
looked gravely at the floor.

Antoinette sat watching her, smiling a
little. She had never heard her stepmother
speak with much kindness of her English
relations, who seemed on the whole to have
been a heartless set of people. It was supposed
that Mrs. Percival, her aunt, had not
been quite pleased at her marriage ; then
there was her change of religion, which of
course made a barrier, though to Antoinette's
mind the Anglican Church was
a thing incomprehensible. This cousin
evidently rose above the English and Protestant
ideas of the family ; and no doubt
the very visible effort, the affectation almost,

SO unlike her general way of talking, with
which Celia spoke of him, was owing to her
feeling of partial estrangement from the rest
of the family.

Papa will be charmed to see your
English cousin. He is so fond of the
English said Antoinette presently.  And
I am sure he will come back to receive him,
if he can.'

If he can't, do you think it will matter ?'
said Celia. ' If Vincent is obliged to come
on Saturday, and he can't come back till
Sunday ?'

There was something quite oddly helpless
in the way she said this  she whose
habit always was to decide everything for
herself, and certainly never to consult her
young stepdaughter.

You know best,' said Antoinette, the
smile deepening in her eyes.  Nobody

VOL. II. 37

will think it matters if you don't, cohere
belle "indian f

She sprang up from her low seat, crossed
the room to Celia, and stopping behind her,
leaned over and lightly kissed the thick gold
braids of her hair.

I must go and feed the chickens,' she
said, and she darted out of the room, leaving
the Marquise alone with Vincent Percival's
letter.

THE ENGLISH COUSIN

The train from Paris steamed slowly into
the station at Saint-Bernard, past the
cemetery with its many crosses, under
old garden walls, up to the platform, now
shaded with laburnum and pink may. The
sun was getting low, and one of the may-trees
made a natural bower full of rosy light,
where three people were talking together,
apart from the Saturday crowd of caps and
blouses. The sky was cloudless, and the
air dazzlingly clear, and fresh without a

372

touch of coldness. Coming down from the
glaring heat and noise of Paris into this
pure quiet country was like stepping into
Paradise.

Captain Percival, rather cross, and wearied
with his long day's journey, was looking out
of the window. He thought that after all
he was perhaps doing something rather too
kind and good-natured, in travelling all this
distance to see a person who had certainly
treated his family, and especially himself,
with great coldness and ingratitude. In
fact, it was curiosity that brought him down
into these French wilds ; curiosity as to the
sort of life that his cousin had made out for
herself, mixed with a certain love of interference,
and a vast capacity for being bored
at Woolsborough, which had made him feel
that he must have a few days in Paris by
way of relaxation. And once in Paris, i

was natural to think of Celia, and to wonder
what change the years had made in her,
and in short, generously to offer his friendship
to the cold, worldly woman who had
declined anything better. As he travelled
down from Paris that day, he was at first
rather pleased with what he was doing ; but
the journey was tiresome ; there was a
bustling change into a slow, cross-country
train, which bored him ; he hated the
French and their ' administration,' and was
inclined to quarrel with every official he
came across ; he beo-an to wonder how he
would be received, if that confounded
Marquis would give himself airs ; he
sneered inwardly at French titles, after
the fashion of an ignorant Englishman ;
he read Celia's note again, and thought it
cold ; he wondered if she would keep her
promise of sending to meet him ; in short,

he prepared himself to be injured, offended,
and sighted in every possible way.

In this frame of mind he looked out to
see if the little station happened to be Saint-bernard,
and had no need to listen to the
voices of the porters, for there he saw his
cousin Celia standing under the may-tree,
talking to an ugly little man and a handsome
woman, herself beautifully dressed, and much
handsomer, he instantly thought, than in the
days when he made love to her at Wools-borough,
now so long ago.

In another moment she saw him, and said
a farewell word to her companions, parting
from them with bows and smiles. The little
man, who had been standing bare-headed
talking to her, put his hat on again, and
he and the lady hurried towards the train.
Madame de Montmirail came straight to
the carriage from which Vincent was getting

out, with smiles and out-stretched hands.
He certainly' could not complain of her
welcome.

I am so very glad to see you,' she said,
in the voice whose every peculiar tone he
remembered so well. ' It is so kind of you
to come.'

Vincent did not exactly know whether he
was pleased with her manner, though in
theory, of course, it was perfection. It
showed plainly that the past was not to be
remembered, and therefore that there could
not possibly be any awkwardness in their
intercourse now. It was very dignified
and quite natural. Vincent could only
put on his best manners, and answer this
stately young Marquise in the way she
seemed to expect.

Her large open carriage was waiting outside
the station, and the horses were shaking

their bells impatiently. Soon they were
off, and then Madame de Montmirail began
very amiably to make apologies for her
husband.

Achille is so sorry,' she said. ' He is
kept at Tours on business till tomorrow
afternoon. He told me to explain to you.
Till tomorrow I hope you will be able to
endure life with me and Antoinette.'

I think so, thank you,' said Vincent.

Xot that there will be much to amuse
you afterwards, I am afraid,' she went on.
This is such a very bad time of year, you
know ; all our neighbours are in Paris. You
should have come in September, when weare
really gay, and when you could have
gone out shooting.'

Thanks,' said Vincent ; ' but after all, I
came to see you, and French sport is, perhaps
well, an acquired taste !'

Like English society said Celia, laughing
a little. ' In the country at least, and
in cathedral towns. Poor dear old Wools-borough
! How dull it used to be ! And
tell me, how is everybody ? When did you
leave Aunt Flo and Uncle Tom ? Are they
quite well V

The Canon is flourishing,' said Vincent.
Xot so sure about my mother ; she looks.
a little worn. She is four years older, you
know, and it shows. Xot that that is always
the case  at least, the years are kind to
some people, and give them what they take
away from others.'

Thanks ; that is very pretty. You will
do very well in France,' said Celia, looking
at him and smiling.

As she met his rather melancholy eyes,
some strong memory of days gone by came
suddenly over her ; she became grave and

silent, and looked the other way. They
drove on quickly, along the straight road
with its border of poplars, now all a soft
shimmering green, with lovely grey and blue
shadows, standing tall and motionless against
the clear depth of evening sky. The intense
stillness, the sweetness of the air, with its
just perceptible breath of wood-smoke and
ir-trees, the sunset glory that was growing
deeper, flaming up before it died, in a last
attempt to delay the victory of that soft
grey twilight which was already lurking in
shady places, in deep lanes, in low meadows
under trees  all this, the natural magic of a
summer evening in Anjou, was now at its
height, and could not fail of its effect on
people with so much to remember, though
they might be among the least romantic of
their kind.

Vincent watched his companion with a

sort of wonder. In his heart he had never
really understood her proceedings, for he had
never really believed in the coldness and
hardness of which he had accused her. In
spite of everything she chose to say, he had
been honestly convinced that she cared for
him, when he went away to India. Of course
she never cared for Paul Romaine : that he
knew, and he was right there. But her
cold answer to his mad letter from India
had really surprised him, showing that he
had very blindly misunderstood Celia ; and
after this her giving herself away, fortune
and all, to a Frenchman, seemed to show
that his cousin Celia, the bright girl who
Jiad made Woolsborough so pleasant that
summer, had never really existed. Why
had she married this Frenchman ? Was it
possible that she cared for him ? There
were a dozen questions to be asked about it.

but no satisfactory answer could possibly be
had. Paying her a visit in her foreign home
was the likeliest way of making discoveries,
and the first of these seemed to be that she
was contented.

And why are you not in Paris, like
everybody else V asked Vincent, suddenly
breaking the silence.

Well  I don't know  we are economizing
a little,' she answered. * We have spent
a great deal on the house, as you will see,
and there is plenty more to do still. And
my husband is maire of our village, and
takes an immense interest in all the local
politics. He is one of the very few men of
his kind whom the people really love, you
know. I dare say, as time goes on, he will
do a great deal more in politics, in a more
public way. All the Legitimists think so
very much of him

And is it all new, his interest in these
things ? All since you married him ?'

 Before that, things were different, you
see,' answered Celia coolly. ' He hardly
lived here ; the place was half in ruins.
He lived about anywhere  with his mother-in-law
in Paris a good deal.'

 Who were those people at the station ?'

Celia smiled, and hesitated a moment
before she answered. The smile came from
a little amused wonder, a recognition of old
times come back again. This certainly was
Vincent, unchanged, abrupt, absolutely ill-mannered
as ever.

The Baron and Baronne de Cernay,' she
said. ' They have a fine old chateau at
Saint-Bernard. They are very old friends
of Achille's.'

Friends of yours too V

We don't quite love each other. Oh,

very civil, of course. But they are patriotic,
and don't understand Achille's weakness for
the English.'

Isn't it altogether an unfriendly sort of
business, living here ? You can't be really
intimate with anyone.'

As to that,' said Celia, ' many of the
people are charming, and like me very
much. Intimate  I don't care about that,
you know. I never did  it is not my disposition.'


The sun had set, though the world was
still glowing ; but in the deep shaded lanes
by the little river in the valley, through
which they were now driving, it was already
twilight. But Celia's fair face seemed to
shine clear against the dimness, as she
looked at Vincent with smiling eyes.

You are as mysterious as ever,' he said.

No, I am not at all mysterious. You

told me my character long ago  and I
suppose I am consistent.'

I don't believe it. I can't make you
out,' Vincent muttered, half to himself.

Don't bother yourself by trying. One
thing you must think  that I am very
unkind and odious, for I have never said
a word about all the fine things you did
in India  or asked about your wound. Is
it quite well now ?'

Yes, thank you. I left off my sling
before I landed in England, six weeks ago.
Who told you anything about my doings in
India ?'

Aunt Flo's letters were full of them, of
course.'

Well, it's a long history. I can't begin
it now. I want to look about at your pretty
country. Really, it is a very characteristic
sort of country.'

I never saw anything like it before I
came here. Do you notice how much
yellow broom there is everywhere ? In the
wilder bits, and the woods, it is quite lovely
and we have such beautiful hedges, all
very tall, and sprawling and trailing, and
full of wild roses and honeysuckle. I shall
take you out walking, Vincent. Dear me,
poor thing, how bored you will be !'

If I am, I shall go back to Paris.
It's true, I haven't your sublime power
of enjoying everything. Hallo ! what's
that ?'

They had reached the top of the hill, and
where turning down to the village. Vincent's
exclamation was caused by his first sight of
the ofreat white tower of the chateau, risings
there among dark woods, bathed itself in
the whole glory of evening light, with all
its windows shining:.

A flash of real pride and pleasure crossed
Celia's smiling face.

That is La Tour Blanche,' she said.
Don't you think that it was worth restoring
?'

As they drove down into the valley, and
along the village street, they passed a
number of caravans and small carts drawn
up beside the road. The Corbeau Blanc
seemed to be stirring, and full of business :
a great noise of hammering made the horses
prance and dash round the corner to the
bridge ; groups of strange people were
standing about ; the eyes that stared at
the carriage were ruder and less friendly
than usual. Only here and there a passing
villager took off" his hat to Madame la
Marquise, and Vincent smiled at the marked
way in which she returned these bows.

To-morrow is the fete of our village,'

VOL. II. 38

she explained to him ; ' that is why you see
all these people.'

And do you go to Mass at the church
here ?'

Celia flushed a little : perhaps she thought
the question was meant to remind her of
Woolsborough and the Cathedral.

I have no doubt you blame me, vincent
she said deliberately ; * but for my
part, I never could see much difference
between one form of Christianity and
another.'

Won't you have to confess that
remark V

Nonsense ! Of course, I think now
that this is right ; at any rate, I am quite
sure it is right for me. It adds to the
separation. I'm sorry ; but that is other
people's fault, not mine. I don't wish
that it should, nor does Achille. But he

would not be half so happy if I did not
agree with him ; so I think my choice was
right.'

No doubt it was,' said Vincent. ' You
did quite the most reasonable thing. What
does the separation matter to you ? You
have got a pretty avenue here, madame.'

Yes, it is lovely now,' she said, evidently
glad to escape from the religious question.

Three minutes later they were standing on
the terrace in front of the stately old house,
where Antoinette had brought the dogs out
to receive them. Vincent was formally
introduced to Mdlle. de Montmirail, who
curtseyed, and gave him her finger-tips
gracefully. She was prepared to admire
the soldier cousin, but found this impossible
; in her opinion and that of Suzanne,
who was not far off, his appearance was
hideous ; fierce, rude, wicked, and altogether

382

disagreeable. How such a man could bea
friend of her charming stepmother was
indeed mysterious ; and this mystery never
became clear to Antoinette.

The old dog who was lying beside her got
up and went forward to sniff at Vincent,
then turned away with the slightest growl.
Another dog, very like this one, pricked his
ears and slunk away towards the house ;
only the little terrier, Rataplan, was ready
to make friends with him.

 Why, where did you get these Clumbers V
asked Vincent, looking with interest at the
other dogs. ' Are they the fashion in
France ? One so seldom sees them now.'

Don't you remember them in Surrey V
said Celia. ' Here, Di !'

And the old dog crept slowly forward to
be stroked by her, avoiding Vincent as far
as possible.

Surrey ? Of course. Colonel Ward
had a whole pack of them.'

These are two that he gave me, poor
dear ! I don't care for them very much. I
want to get a poodle. But old Di is a
privileged person, and it is supposed that a
poodle would make her unhappy.'

She won't live much longer,' said Vincent
consolingly ; and then he added, with his
slight grin which did duty for a smile, ' I
remember kicking one of those Clumbers
once, when Colonel Ward wasn't looking.
I rather think it was Di, and that she remembers
it too.'

Quel hommes mon Dieu ! quelle horreur
/' thought Mdlle. de Montmirail as she
went out of that calm golden evening into
the lighted house, with her stepmother and
the English cousin.

A PILGRIM IN TOURAINE.

That most mysterious and magical of palaces,
the Chateau de Chenonceaux  the home
once of Diane de Poitiers, and afterwards
of Catherine de Medici, who took it away
from her, and who, though she died at Blois,
seems to have left her spirit here  stands
white and grey and smiling, crowned with
gilded Meanes and ornaments that glitter in
the sun, and looks at itself for ever in its
native waters of the Cher. For it has
grown up out of the river, this great stately
building, four hundred years old ; the river

flows and splashes gently about the solid
foundations, strong as rocks, and under the
low heavy arches of the long bridge-gallery,
which continues the chateau right across the
river to the farther bank. Diane de Poitiers
built that bridge ; and the Queen, when she
possessed herself of Chenonceaux, thought
of finishing' off the buildings with another
stately pavillon beyond it ; but she died
without carrying out this idea.

The avenue, leading somewhat downhill
from the village, pauses in a courtly manner
at some distance from the front of the chateau,
which faces it, in all the rich and magnificent
beauty, without extravagance, of the best
Renaissance time. Two great stone sphinxes,
looking wonderfully scornful, guard the
entrance of the avenue ; then the chateau
is approached across an immense court of
yellow gravel ; on one side, in the distance,

are a honos ranofe of modern stables ;
on the other, a great formal garden, full of
roses, lying in the broad sunshine without a
tree, with stone walls and flights of steps,
extending to a terrace that runs along by
the river. And the broad, shallow river
glides along, with a green island here and
there, and the masses of trees on the farther
bank make a green, restful background to
the shining chateau and its coiir honneur.

No doubt there are times in the year
when Chenonceaux is gay and noisy enough,
and then perhaps it loses its weirdness, while
all the display of a present modern world 
not much holier, perhaps, than that which
went before  comes to invade the atmosphere
of Catherine, her works and ways.
But one would rather see the place when it
is silent and lonely, when floating on its
river it seems like a dream, a vision of old

time, magical, sinful, strange, with a fascination
all its own, and an evil, enchanting
beauty. There is an under-current of musical
laughter, with a little sweet mockery, in the
only sound that reaches one's ears, the ripple
and splash of the river against the old
stones. ' I am very old, very wicked, and
very beautiful,' Chenonceaux seems to say.
Here in the lonely country, close to my
quiet village, hidden by my trees, I have had
a history to startle the daylight of your
modern minds. Diane, Catherine  beauty
and witchcraft  I shall bear their stamp forever.
And the Revolution spared me, while
hundreds of old Christian houses were burning,
and the blood of their owners was flowing
on the scaffold.'

An English traveller, one Saturday afternoon
in May, was leaning idly on the parapet
wall by the river, gazing at Chenonceaux,

and listening' to some enchantingly of this
kind. He found himself rather a rare bird
in those parts. He had been in the West,
then in the East, and had met other English
travellers everywhere. In Spain, his last
hunting-ground, they were not so many ;
and here they seemed to have totally disappeared.
He had come up from Bordeaux
to Tours, and had found himself attracted
by a part of the world quite new to him,
and which set, somehow, had associations :
he had now lingered a fortnight in this
Touraine country, visiting Blois, the stately
chateau and charming, friendly old town ;
Chambord, mourning alone in her forest ;
Amboise, high and sunny, a smiling ruin
bright with flowers ; Beaumont, quaint and
grand, with round towers looking down over
the broad Loire ; and now at last he had
come to Chenonceaux, certainly the most

curious and beautiful of all, though the
ancient royalty had departed from her more
utterly than from any of the others.

The French came to see these old chateaux ;
they were to be met with everywhere :
prettily-dressed ladies ; large bourgeois
families ; priests conducting a flock of boys ;
but there were no English to be met in
this part of France ; and the lonely traveller
rejoiced, though he wondered. It pleased
him that these good French people, whom
he liked in spite of all their vagaries, and
who liked him, should take such a lively
interest in their own history, haunting
the royal houses that half the world had
forgotten, and listening in a meek excursions
spirit to everything they were
told.

This traveller had now been several years
away from England, and during his absence

he had not thought much of his own country,
or of the few interests he had left behind
him there. Among new scenes, and ways,
and people, he had to a certain extent forgotten
the past. He had gone away with a
wounded spirit and a sore heart, having been
changed rather suddenly from a romantic
boy into a disappointed man ; and the news,
which had reached him just as he was leaving
England, that the woman he loved was likely
to marry a man he had almost called his
friend, had not improved his opinion of
human nature. Everything seemed to be
against him ; he had lost his only real old
friend, and so he determined to shake the
dust of it all off his feet, and to stay away
from England for at least ten years.

He went to America, which strengthened
him, though he hated it ; and then to
Australia, which he hated more ; and then

to the East, which he loved, for he found
there a miraculous power of soothing, an
indifference to all the ills of life, which he
was only too glad to learn. And now, with
the half-Oriental look of an Englishman who
loves the East, with a quietness which was
perfectly strong and self-dependent, with a
thin, sunburnt face, a dark beard, only his
slight active figure unchanged, Paul Romaine
was coming slowly home, month by month
finding himself a little nearer England.

After all, it was not five years since he
went away ; but to him they seemed ' years
of years ' ; and as he leaned there on the
parapet of Chenonceaux, he was thinking
that there was really no reason why he
should not be back at Red Towers in a
week. Yet there was no hurry ; more things
to see in this country, no doubt ; and as to
Paris, he was determined to pass through

without stopping. Of all the cities he had
seen in his life, he hated Paris most.

Then he fell to thinking what old friends
he should find in England, when he got back
there. Well, at Red Towers, except the
Vicar, there was no one. He wondered, half
smiling, whether he could make anything of
the Vicar. The old servants might perhaps
be glad to see him ; Scamp, if he was alive
still ; the only other person likely to take
an interest in him was Dr. Graves, who had
thought him a terrible fool for flying off ashe
did. The Percivalss ? No, he felt now
that he could not trust Mrs. Percival ; she
must have known all along, to some extent,
that Celia was deceiving him. And perhaps
now the Canon was a Bishop  'just the
sort of man,' Paul thought wickedly  and
the Palace doors would open gingerly to a
savage like himself

Paul wondered, in a lazy, philosophic way,
whether there were many people with so few
friends. In the course of his travels he had
of course met with several people who had
taken a fancy to him, and for the time had
conquered his unsociable tendencies ; but
none of these acquaintances had had time
to grow into friendship. Besides, he had
lost his old idealizing power, or at least it
seemed so ; he did not quite believe that anyone
could like him. The goodness of human
nature had become something of a dream to
him ; he had a sad way, now, of inquiring
into people's motives. This Celia had taught
him.

He was quite conscious now of being in
Celia's country ; not far, perhaps, from her
home. He remembered the name of the
chateau  La Tour Blanche. It had struck
him by its odd likeness to the name of his

own house ; but he did not remember if he
had ever heard what town it was near, orin
which direction he was Likely to come
upon it. There was no danger, at any rate,
as long as he was in Touraine. M. de 
had certainly told him that Anjou was
his province.

Danger ? Yes : he certainly would rather
not meet Celia again, though after all, if
such a thing happened, it would not matter
much to him. What nonsense it all was !
People were always having these troubles
and getting over them, and meeting their
old loves again quite agreeably, not exactly
as strangers or as friends. Looking calmly
back, it was all very absurd : one had made
one's self so miserable about nothing. Why
should a pretty, worthless woman be able to
throw a shadow over one's whole life ? But
even as Paul thought these wise thoughts.

he told himself that there never was, and
never would be, a woman half so attractive
as Celia. Paul was a person of fancies, and
it seemed to him that there was some likeness,
some odd connection, between Chenon-
ceux and his old love. Beautiful, smiling,
cold, with something' at once attractive and
repellent. Yes, Chenonceaux was the sort
of house that outfit to have belonged to
Celia.

After a honos time, Paul was startled from
his dream by human footsteps not far off.
He looked round, and would not have been
surprised if Celia herself had come walking
towards him across the glowing gravel. But
it was only a peasant woman carrying a basket.
She was enough to rouse the traveller, however,
and to remind him that time was flying.
He stood upright, taking a long last look at
the picture before him ; the great white walls,

VOL. II. 39

white turrets, peaked grey roofs, and flashing
vanes ; the broad river as it ran slowly,
and danced and sparkled in the sun ; it all
smiled enchantingly, yet with a sweet indifference,
as Celia used to smile. Paul
turned away from it, crossed the garden,
and went out into the court, and then on
up the avenue into the village, hardly looking
back.

Le Bon Lahoureuv welcomed him, and he
lingered there a little, buying a quantity of
photographs and bits of Blois faience, half
wishing to stay all night at the pretty little
inn, among all its gay French art and pink
geraniums. But as there was nothing to do
but to go back to the chateau and dream
over it again, he thought he might as well
go back to Tours. Even then he nearly
missed his train, for he walked down the
open country road to the station, and stopped

to pick some rare wild-flowers in a field by
the roadside.

Sunburnt and dusty, he sprang into the
train just as it was starting, and by those
few minutes of hurry he overtook his life,
and finished his years of independent wandering.
For the ' divinity that shapes our ends '
so shaped his, that he was brought face to
face with Celia's husband.

When Paul looked ud, the Marquis de
Montmirail was sitting opposite to him,
smiling kindly, though a little flushed and
confused by the sudden recognition.

392

MOIS DE MARIE.'

Antoinette was very much disappointed
that her father did not come home on
Saturday. It had flashed across her mind
that she might write to him and ask him todo
so, but then came the feeling that she
could not do this without her stepmother's
knowledge, and that her stepmother would
think it a very odd proceeding. When she
saw the detestable cousin, however, she felt
sorry that she had not done it in spite of
everything. And she was rather lonely
all that evening, while Madame de 

and Captain Percival seemed to talk
unceasingly of old recollections, from which
she was shut out. To be sure, now and
then the Marquise remembered her
manners so far as smilingly to ask her to
excuse them, and perhaps, if the Marquis
had been at home, he might have enjoyed
talking about England as much as they did ;
but then Antoinette would not have felt
lonely.

There was nothing strange or foreign in
being alone with her stepmother, as she
often happened to be. Celia was generally
a very pleasant companion ; she had a
great power of adapting herself to circumstances,
and to the ideas and ways of the
country she lived in. Dress, food, religion,
manners  everything came easily to Celia,
her convictions not being deep on any of
these subjects. Achille, for a man, was inclined

to be devote, and she humoured him in
this, as in everything else. Considering
that she was a convert, and not a very
zealous one, the way in which she kept up
Catholic observances was a credit to the
Montmirail family.

But this was a change in Celia for which
her cousin Vincent was by no means prepared.
He had never idealized her, like
Paul Romaine ; had never been impressed
by her angel look as she listened to a
sermon in Woolsborough Cathedral. He
was therefore a good deal startled when,
after dinner on Saturday evening, Pien-e
threw open the salon door and announced :

 La chapelle est iDvete'

He and his cousin were sitting in two
great brown and gold arm-chairs, talking
about England. There was an indefinable
something in his way of lounging and talking

which offended Mdlle. Antoinette almost
beyond endurance ; she sat as far off as
possible, her dark bright head, in the light
of the lamp, bent over some hoods for
village babies, at which she stitched away
hard. She longed for her father ; though
no doubt he would behave with perfect
kindness to this Englishman  the creature
could hardly have things all his own way, if
he were there. She remembered a legend
of her grandmother, who had once asked a
rude man if the house belonged to him.
The recollection of that dear grandmother
brought up a crowd of old traditions, and
deepened the proud resentment with which
the young French girl regarded the free-and-easy
Englishman.

He is not agreeable,' she thought.
One might forgive him for being badly
brought up, if he was agreeable. But he

speaks ill of everybody, and sneers at everything,
without being clever in the least.
He is insupportable.'

When Pierre came in with his announcement,
she got up, laid down her work, and
looked across the room to her stepmother,
who smiled a little consciously, and looked
at Vincent.

I thought French people didn't have
family prayers,' he said, as he lay back in
his chair. He looked from Celia to Antoinette,
but she did not look at him.

Not that exactly, you know,' said
Celia, for once a little confused ; it was not
nice to be laughed at by Vincent, of all
people, when she particularly wanted him
to feel the superiority of her lot in life and
all its arrangements. ' It is the " Mois de
Marie." '

Oh, really I beg your pardon ! I am

very ignorant. And must you attend this
this function  yourself? Or can't you
stay and talk to me ?'

Xo, I can't. You had better come too.
It will not hurt you,' said Celia.

Xo, madame, excuse me,' he said.
Unless you insist, we will draw the line at
the "Mois de Marie." Besides, I should
be thought a walking profanation.'

After this he condescended to get up, and
to hold the door open for the ladies, while they
threw shawls over their heads and went out
to the chapel. He followed them out of
the room, and lighted a cigarette on the
terrace, in the warm still starlight. He
saw them go under the old archway into the
lighted chapel, a few other figures following
them. After standing out there a few
minutes, he walked slowly and softly to the
end of the terrace, and mounted the worn

stone steps, to where a narrow ray of light
fell from the low arch of the chapel door ;
somebody had left it a few inches open.
Vincent walked like a cat  it was one of
his accomplishments, being as lithe as he
was strong  and standing on the step, was
able to look in and listen. The little chapel
was very old, older than the rest of the
house, with a low, vaulted stone roof and
narrow windows. The carved stone altar
glittered with lights in silver candlesticks ;
it had a covering of blue silk and lace, and
was loaded with flowers, of which large pots
stood also all round it on the floor  roses,
geraniums, marguerites. On the wall above
hung pictures of saints. In front, a red
carpet was laid down, and there was room
for about a diOZQn prie-Dieu chairs, at which
the ladies and the servants were kneeling.
A sweet young voice was reading the

prayers of the ' Mois de Marie,' very fast,
in a high monotone ; now and then came a
fine growl of responses. It was Antoinette
who was reading : Celia knelt silently
beside her, with her face hidden.

 Souvenez-vous tres pieuse Vierge

Marie ' the young voice went ringing

on ; and suddenly, for one mysterious
moment, the listener felt himself what he
had suggested that other people might
think him  a walking profanation.

He went lightly down the steps, and
walked off along the terrace. Having
pulled himself together, and lighted another
cigarette, he wondered very much how Celia
could have given herself up to a life of such
confounded humbug.

On the whole, the thing put him rather
out of temper, and when the ladies came
back into the salon, he was inclined to be

silent and sulky. This lasted till about
half-past nine, when Mdlle. Antoinette went
away to bed, thus relieving him of what he
felt a sort of restraint, for he was conscious
of her dislike, and inclined to return it.

Then Celia became industrious, which
was a little tiresome. She moved herself
into the lamplight, and began working at a
large piece of silk embroidery. Certainly
she made a very pretty picture, sitting therein
a soft circle of light : a more attractive

o

picture, to many eyes, than Antoinette with
her hoods. Her cousin, however, sat and
stared at her in a discontented sort of way.
She was perhaps happier than he wished
to see her. He could not quite understand
her, or the reason of it all. On the whole,
now, he was a good deal fonder of himself
than of her  self-love being a plant which
richly rewards cultivation  but still she was

a most interesting study, and he wanted to
ask her a great many questions. He was
only checked by the faint instinct that told
him she would not like these questions ;
and even now, perhaps, his curiosity  a
form of self-indulgence  might insist on
being gratified in Site of any warning
instinct.

Why do you work V he said, with a
touch of impatience. ' Can't you do nothing,
and talk to me V

No ; I want to finish this,' said Celia
calmly. ' You must amuse me. Tell me
about India ; I can listen.'

I shall do no such thing,' he said.

A slight smile lingered about Celia's lips
as she bent over her work. Vincent was
so utterly unchanged, so ridiculously like
his old self. Every word, every frown,
every irritable twist in his chair, reminded

her vividly of that old summer at Wools-borough,
when it used to be her business
to charm his cross tempers away, and when,
without a thought, all through those sunny
weeks, of any serious consequence, she used to
enjoy the fun of feeling her power over him.

She had not much heart, even then ; butin
truth she was a better woman then than
now. Her way had been downhill, though
her sins had not been very great ones, as
the Avorld would see them. But perhaps
the inward degradation, the falseness to
one's self, the playing with life and love
and duty, with no better object than outward
comfort and peace and amusement,
may in the end bring down a soul to a
very low depth. There may be more hope
for people who have been carried away by
a madness of passion, and so have forgotten
the honour due to themselves, than for a

practical, self - preserving, loveless creature
like Celia.

She had a little thrill of amused excitement,
as she sat there working, and knew
that her influence over Vincent was in fact
just as strong as ever. He did not know
it, but she did ; and even while she thought
him a fool for his pains, she liked him
intensely, and was conscious of a thought
which came of itself  and to do her justice,
was not dwelt upon :

After all, I ouo-ht to have married him.'
Then she reminded herself of what she

had always known  that he would have

/

been a tyrant. Xo, it was all for the best ;
an ill-tempered man would be a terrible
bore to live with ; and Achille was simply
the perfection of a husband. He adored
her ; and most certainly she was quite contented
with him.

Do you think Antoinette pretty V she
asked presently, with an idea of turning
Vincent's thoughts and talk away from herself.


Yes  rather he said carelessly. ' Very
French ; too dark. Those sort of eyes and
hair are uninteresting  to me, at least. I
suppose she is like her father. How old is
she  sixteen V

She is eighteen,' said Celia.

Really I A stepdaughter nearly as old
as yourself She is very childish for her
age. Is that your arrangement ?'

Celia laughed.

Not at all,' she said. ' It is the way
with French girls. But '

Married out of the nursery. When is
she going to be married ? Ah, my manners
are very bad. You were saying something.'

I was going to tell you,' said Celia,

that she is not like her father at all. Has
nobody told you what he is like ? It seems
so odd that you have never seen him.'

Romaine picked him up first, didn't he ?
That was very queer,' said Vincent ; and
then he covered this remark with a lauoh,
Well, what are the looks of M. le Marquis
?  No ; nobody told me. I didn't
ask.'

Look at that photograph on the table
close to you,' said Celia.

Vincent snatched up a brass frame, out
of which Achille de Montmirail, broad, fair,
handsome, the picture of honesty and good-humour,
looked him straight in the face
with wide-open eyes. He held it in his
hand for a minute or two, then put it quietly
down.

He is not much like a Frenchman,' he
said.

VOL. II. 40

He is a thorough Frenchman of the best
kind,' said Celia. ' But you Englishmen
know nothing whatever about them

Very Hkely not. He is a good-looking
man, at any rate.'

When he was quite young, people thought
him the handsomest man in France,' said
the Marquise, with a shade of satisfaction.


His looks may be called good in another
sense, too,' said Vincent, not unpleasantly.

And what his looks are, he is,' she
said.

The fact is, Madame la Marquise thinks
herself a lucky woman.'

No one will venture to tell her that she
is anything else.'

I don't suppose anyone will,' said Vincent.
' There is one thing more certain,
though '

What may that be V

That M. le Marquis is a lucky man. An
English beauty, an English heiress  it is
not every Frenchman who makes such a
catch as that. It entitles him to the everlasting
hate of all Englishmen. I should
like a war between England and France. I
should like to command the regiment that
takes your village, and to have the pleasure
of looking on while this house is burnt down.
Set it on fire myself, perhaps ! that would
be a grand revenge.'

Celia laughed. ' Horrid, ungrateful
wretch !' she said. ' But you would not
find it so easy to set this house on
fire. The walls are at least two yards
thick.'

Oh, it should burn, it should burn !' said
Vincent, and his eyes ran round the room as
if in search of the most inflammable corner.

402

Ungrateful, you say ! And pray what
have I to be grateful for ?'

For a much better dinner than you
would have had at River Gate,' Celia
answered lightly.

Well, you are right. And I appreciated
that, I assure you. Still, even at River
Gate, there is a change for the better in the
cook line. What a barbarous monster my
mother had that summer, do you remember ?
She could cook nothing but '' rosbif " Do
you still like 'rosbif'?'

I never liked it,' said Celia. ' I hate
English cookery. Perhaps that was why I
married a Frenchman.'

 It is the only reason that seems at all
reasonable,' said her cousin. ' If I married
a Frenchwoman, I'm afraid it wouldn't
answer in the same way. But what a
thing, to be sure of a good dinner for the

rest of your life ! Somehow, Celia  to change
the subject  you have not developed as I
expected you would. You have, of course,
but in a different way.'

Developed ! What do you mean V
I always thought, that if you could ever
do exactly what you pleased, you would turnout
rather a dashing sort of woman  if not
fast, horsey. I expected you to smoke, too.
I am astonished to find you living quietly in
this lonely sort of place, with nobody to
amuse you but a girl, and nothing to do but
needlework and devotions. Your adopted
country would let you live a much jollier
life than that, I know. You might be in
Paris, as gay as anyone else, and down here
you might do anything on earth you pleased.
I expected you to meet me to-day at the
station in a high cart, driving tandem and
smoking a cigarette. Isn't that the sort of

thing you would like ? Instead of that, you
are the pink of propriety in a carriage and
pair. Isn't it very slow ?'

Anything for a quiet life,' said Celia,
smiling over her work.

So it seems ; but do you really think so V
I am older, wiser, glazier than when
you knew me, Vincent,' she said.  There
are lots of people like me ; they want todo
things when they can't, and they don't
do them when they can. Besides, some
men are old-fashioned enough to hate all
that sort of thing for their wives, and my husband
is one of them. So now you know.'
Is it that you won't, or can't ?'
I could, but I don't care to attempt it.
I should lose more than I should gain. He
and his family are satisfied with me as I
am.'

And you like to be admired for a sort

of character you don't possess. What an
actress you are !'

And what a cousin you are !' said CeHa,
with perfect coolness and good-humour.
Suppose we talk about something more
interesting ?'

Certainly. Have you yet arranged a
marriage for Miss Antoinette V

' Does that interest you ? No, indeed,
we have not thought about it. Antoinette
will not have much foi-tune, poor child 1 I
am afraid it will be a difficulty.'

Why ? she is the only child.'

Yes,' said Celia. ' But her father
had very little indeed of his own. Just
this house, and not much land with it.
Her mother's fortune was small, too ; she
was one of a large family ; it was a foolish
marriage. And my money, you know 
well, you must understand that I am quite

independent. We married with separation
de hens. Everything I have is entirely
my own ; and as a good deal of my money
has been spent on restoring this house, it
is settled on me for my life. Anyhow, a
certain part of my husband's property comes
to me by law.'

On the whole, a very comfortable
arrangement for you,' said Vincent,  especially
as you are sure to survive him.'

Celia looked a little grave. She stooped
down to examine the shades in her work,
then said, without looking up :

He is a good many years older than I
am ; but I hope I shall not survive him.
He deserves to live a hundred years.'

You are much more likely to live a
hundred years,' said Vincent. ' One does
not quite see why people like you should
ever die. I always thought that such a

Z-Z

remarkable thing about you  that you
should never have had even a finger-ache.
You are not offing' to bed V

She was putting aside her silks, and
rolling up her work with quiet, deliberate
movements.

Yes,' she said. ' I am tired, and so are
you, no doubt.'

She was again the stately young Marquise
who had met him at the station ; not the
girl who long ago, in the old inn garden by
the river, had objected to being told that
she knew nothing of pain. She gave him
her hand with an air which was not exactly
friendliness ; it seemed meant to remind
him, very gently, that he had his limits, and
might as well keep to them ; the personal
talk he was so fond of mioht oo too far.
They were not quite on the old River Gate
terms, kind and hospitable as she might be.

He wished her good-night half sulkily.
He afterwards reflected that if she chose to
give herself airs, he would go away tomorrow
; but then curiosity said he must
see her husband, this man for whom, withall
her coldness, she was certainly a little
sensitive.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS. Guildford

G., C d- Co.

THE TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

Serial Stories by the following Writers hare appeared in the pages of
this Magazine :

The Seven Sons of Mammon, by George Augustus Sala. For Better, for Worse,
edited by Edmund Yates. Aurora Floyd, by INIiss Braddon. The Adventures of Captain
Dangerous, by George Augustus Sala. The Trials of the Tredgolds-john
Parchment's Legacy, by Miss P5raddon.- Broken to Harness, by Edmund Yates.
Paid in Full, by H. J. Byron. The Doctors Wife, by Miss Braddon. David
Chantry, by W. G. Wills. Sir Jasper's Tenant, by Miss Braddon. Land at Last,
by Edmund Yates. Archie Lovell, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. Lady Adelaide Oath,
by Mrs. Henry Wood. A Lost Name, by J. Sheridan Le Fan. Steven Lawrence :
Yeoman, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. Kitty, by M. E. Bentham-Edwardes. Vera. Red
as a Rose is She, by Rhoda Broughton. Susan Fielding, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.
A Race for a Wife, by Hawley Smart. The Bird of Passage, by J. Sheridan Le

Fan.  His Brother's Keeper, by Albany de Fonblanque.  The Landlord of
the Sun, by W. Gilbert.  The Poison of Ass, by Florence Marryat.  goodbye,
Sweetheart! by Rhoda Broughton.  Ought we to Visit Her? by Nlrs.
Annie Edwardes.  The Illustrious Dr. Mathews, by MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
The Wooing ot, by 'Mrs. Alexander.'  The Deceased Wife's Sister, by
'Sidney Mostyn.' - The New Magdalen, by Wilkie Collins. - Uncle John, by
W. Whyte-Melville.  A Vagabond Heroine, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.  My
Beautiful Neighbour, by W. Clark Russell. Leah : a Woman of Fashion, by Mrs.
Annie Edwardes. Patricia Kimball, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Philip Leigh. The
Frozen Deep, by wilkie Collins. Bitter Fruit, by A. W. Dubourg. Lilith, by W.
H. Pollock. Ralph Wilton's Weird, by 'Mrs. Alexander. The Dream Woman, by
Wilkie Collins.  Basil's Faith, by A. W. Dubourg. The American Senator, by
Anthony Trollope. Her Dearest Foe, by ' Mrs. Alexander. Victoria Contain, by
A. W. Dubourg. The Two Destinies, by Wilkie Collins. An Old Man's Darling, by
A. W. Dubourg. Cherry Ripe ! by Helen Matters. A Blue Stocking, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes. The Ordeal of Fay, by Mrs. Buxton. The ' First Violin,' by Jessie Others
-Two Handsome People, Two Jealous People, and a Ring, by Miss I blanche. 
Jet, her Face or her Fortune, by INIrs. Annie PIdwardes. Auld Robin Gray, by Mrs.
Godfrey. Probation, by Jessie Fothergill  Ebenezer, by C. G. Leland. Vivian the

Beauty, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. Celia, by Mrs. Godfrey. Adam and Eve, by Mrs.

Parr. The Portrait of a Painter, by Himself, by Lady Pollock. A Little Bohemian,
by Mrs. Godfrey. The Rebel of the Family, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Kith and Kin,
by Jessie Fothergill. The Freres, by 'Mrs. Alexander. Marie Dumont, by Lady
Pollock. The Beautiful Miss Roche, by Mrs. Godfrey's Wild Jack, by Lady
Margaret Majestie. Robin, by Mrs. Parr. A Ball-room Repentance, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes. Unspotted from the World, by Mrs. Godfrey. Belinda, by Rhoda
Broughton. lone Stewart, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Uncle George's Wm, by Lady
Margaret Majestie. A Perilous Secret, by Charles Reade. Zero : a Story of Monte
Carlo, by Mrs. Campbell Prayed. Mrs. Forrester's Secret, by Mrs. Godfrey. Peril,
by Jessie Fothergill.- Mitre Court, by Mrs. Riddell.-A Girton Girl, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes. A Bachelor's Blunder, by W. E. Norris-put Asunder, by Mrs. Godfrey.
Pastor Carew, Miser and Millionaire, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. Red Spider, by the
Author of ' Mehalah,' etc. The Dangers Jewels. Loyalty George, by Mrs. Parr. -A
Village Tragedy, by Mrs. M. woods. Out of the Fog, by W. M. Hardinge. Moor
Isles, by Jessie Fothergill. The Rogue, by W. E. Norris.

To be obtained at all Bookstalls.

/

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS



?92(or

V.5

ELEANOR C. PRICE

AUTHOR OF 'GEltALD-alexis,' ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

JubUshers in (Drbinvtro to )cr <ajcstj|) the Qnttn


[Alt rights reserved]

Discontents
OF VOL. TIL

PART II.

(ContiiiMd.)

CHAPTER PAGE

VI. 'JOUR DE FETE' 1

VII. M. DE MONTMIllAIL - 29

VII L BOIS-LE-COMTE . - 59

IX. OLD FRIENDS 88

X. ROCHE'S BONBONS - - - - - - 117

XL M. DE CERNAY - - - - - - 141

Nil ANTOINETTE 168

Xii MRS. PERCIVAL'S OPPORTUNITY - - - 188

XIV. LE COIN DU Bois - 212

XV. THE SURPRISE - - - - - - 241

XVL A SONNET - 263

XVI L NEW STORIES BEGINNING - - - - 282

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/detairs7redtowers03pric

PAET II.

continued.)

CHAPTER YI.

JOUR DE FETE.'

Sunday morning was quite still, and intensely
hot, even between nine and ten o'clock, when
chateau and village were preparing to go to
Mass. The sky was deep blue ; only on the
horizon lay a great rampart of white cloud,
threatening storm ; but nobody thought of
that. Colour, light, shadow, were all vivid

VOL. III. 41

in a most transparent air ; the scent of white
acacia flowers hovered about the old buildings.


When Captain Percival came out of the
house, strolling up and down the terrace and
looking about him, the dogs that were lying
in the sun got up slowly and crept away
towards the yard. In the house there was a
noise of shutters and bars ; but since old
Pierre brought him his coffee, Vincent had
not seen a human being about the place.
Now, however, in the sunny distance, from
the shade of the great chestnuts behind the
left-hand wall to the deeper shade of the
avenue, a string of people began slowly passing
; women in black dresses, men in clean
blue blouses and shiny caps. Their laughing
chatter reached the Englishman's ears as he
stood on the terrace, till it was lost in the
not unmusical jangle of the church bells, suddenly

beginning again. Then a young sweet
voice cried out :

Suzanne, Suzanne ! Make haste ! I want
you to come with me ;' and Antoinette, with
her permission in her hand, stepped out into
the sunshine.

Then her dark eyes fell rather gravely on
Vincent, and she made him a little bow.

Good-morning, monsieur,' she said.

Good-morning, mademoiselle,' said Vincent,
lifting his hat as he came forward.
What a jolly day ! Where's Celia ? Do
you know V

She has not come down yet. She will be
here directly.'

I was just thinking how tremendously

lonely this place was,' said Vincent, by way

of making himself agreeable, ' when I saw a

whole string of people crossing your avenue

down there. There they go  more of them.

412

Is there a right of way ? That must be
rather a bore, I should think.'

I don't know said Antoinette. ' Some
of them come from the farm, and some more
from farms and cottages away in the Httle
lanes, among the woods and heaths up there.
It is their shortest way to church, you see.
If they did not cross our avenue, they would
have to go a long way round by the highroad.'


And your father can't stop them V
Mais si P said Antoinette, opening her
eyes. ' He could stop them, no doubt, if he
chose. But why should he \ That would
not be right, to give the poor people so much
extra fatioaie.'

o

Right ! well, that depends on the point
of view,' said Vincent, with a slight grin.
It would be right to himself, and to his
family, and his successors, to put a stop to a

nuisance like that without further fuss. A
path made by the peasants within a couple
of hundred yards of one's front door ! If the
place belonged to me I should object to it
strongly. Why, let them go round by the
hiorh road. What is the hish road for, except
to take people from place to place ? But
perhaps your father goes in for being popular
with the peasants V

Of course he likes them to like him,' said
Antoinette, after listening with some surprise.
But that is not the reason '

Ah, of course, there comes in the weak
point. That is how you French people lost
everything before, and you will lose it again 
not knowing how to stand up for your
own rights.'

Vincent spoke almost angrily. Mademoiselle
de Montmirail looked at him, then looked
at the distant passing figures, and laughed.

That is your opinion V she said.

Suzanne did not come, and there were no
signs of Celia. Antoinette looked up at the
house a little impatiently, as the bells went
on ringing. She could not start off to church
by herself, and therefore, at this moment,
escape from the Englishman seemed impossible.


Are you in a hurry V he said. ' You
won't have anybody at church with that fair
going on.'

Pardon ! It does not begin till the Mass
is over. Everybody goes to church in the
morning.'

You don't say so ! What very good
people ! Or are they afraid of the Cure ?
Does he send them all to perdition in his
sermons ?'

The people are not better than in other
places, but they know it is their duty to goto

church said Antoinette. ' No, I don't
think the Cure frightens them. He is very
good ; they like him. Of course he detests
the fete, because it disturbs everything, and
makes it much harder for them. The people
who come with the shows and lotteries are
often merchants. But it must be  and after
all, it is a very pretty sight, especially in the
evening.'

A village fair is not often a pretty sight
in the evening,' said Vincent.

My father says they manage these things
differently in England.'

I suppose we do. Perhaps there is more
human nature in English people. But really
you are not going to persuade me that Anjou
and Arcadia are the same thing.'

I don't know,' she said, smiling. * But
we shall go down to the village to-night,
after it is dark  if my father comes home intime

to take us  and then you will see how
nice the people are

Vincent looked at her curiously. He did
not admire the girl ; she was far too noble a
type for him; and set he rather wished to
make friends with her. He saw that La
Tour Blanche might often be a pleasant
change from England and Woolsborough ;
and he thought he milit as well be welcome
to its inhabitants. Of the constant friendship
of its mistress he felt tolerably sure,
though hardly knowing why. It seemed to
him that in spite of herself, in spite of fate,
in spite of circumstances, she must be nearer
to him than to these French people, though
she had chosen to pass her life with them.
One thing, at any rate, was clear : life away
from Celia was a dull, uninteresting concern.
Though last night he had parted with her
half in anger, this morning he had got up

with the one idea of seeing her again.
Foolish and wrong, yes ; but in Vincent's
way of arguing, he had a full right to burn
his own fingers if he chose ; and so, as
Antoinette de Montmirail was so nearly connected
with Celia, he was beginning to think
it better that she should not dislike him.

Mon Dieu, we shall be late !' exclaimed
the girl, with an impatient shrug, as the
bells, which had stopped for a few minutes,
began a different chime. ' Ah, there you are,
Suzanne ! Come, come, I am not going to
wait for maman. Let us go on.'

Suzanne stumped serenely across the
terrace. She looked handsome and agreeable,
dressed in black, her broad face surmounted
by a gorgeous bonnet covered with flowers.
It was now several years since Suzanne had
ceased to wear her white frilled cap on Sundays.


Plenty of time, mademoiselle,' she said.
Madame la Marquise is coming directly.'

Never mind ; I am going with yon,' said
Antoinette ; and they walked quickly away
together.

Suzanne looked back once or twice  to
see if madame was coming  she explained to
Antoinette.

Don't disturb yourself; of course she will
some,' said the girl, a little proudly.

And the English gentleman, too V
I should think not. He seems to have
no religion. I suppose it won't do to say T
hope not,' said Antoinette, laughing a little,
because it might do him good. But it would
distract me very much to see him in church.'
'And me, too, dame!' exclaimed the old
nurse. ' It is a pity, is it not, mademoiselle,
that such a gentleman should have come to
the chateau while M. le Marquis was away ?

He is not a very good companion foi' madam e
and mademoiselle. M. le Marquis likes the
English, I know ; but this must be oue of a
bad sort. Pierre says so, and Pierre is sharp
enough, considering his ao-e.'

Suzanne glanced aside at her young mistress,
and pinched her mouth up wise. She
was not going to give her more than the
faintest hint of Pierre's opinion. Pierre had
in fact spoken plainly to his wife the night
before. He was a man of the world, and
Captain Percival had not been in the house
half an hour before the old servant's suspicions
had gathered like a cloud round his
head.

My father is coming back to-night, you
know,' said Antoinette.

C'est hen f said Suzanne heartily. Then
she listened with an indulgent smile as the
girl went on.

Yes, he is certainly disagreeable, but he
must be nicer than he seems, because he is
mains cousin, you know, and such an old
friend of hers. It is so difficult to understand
foreigners. Don't you see, Suzanne, I
suppose that what we think rude and nasty,
they think polite and nice. Our customs are
very often quite contrary; just as my father
says, that in England you keep on the left
side of the road when you are driving.'

Is it possible, mademoiselle ! But how
awkward, how puzzling for the horses !'

Antoinette laughed.  I suppose they don't
find it so,' she said.

What mademoiselle says is all very well.'
said Suzanne, nodding her head violently a
great many times. ' But she will not persuade
me that this gentleman is like the
English cousins of M. le Marquis, for instance
 or that 'monsieur would be so fond

-of the English, if they were all like
this.'

Perhaps not,' said Antoinette.  But
now let us say no more, my dear Suzanne ;
because you see he is connected with us ;
and, after all, disagreeable people are not
always bad.'

Suzanne shruoraed her shoulders.

Mademoiselle,' she said, ' I have with my
own ears heard madame your grandmother
say, that a good heart and good manners
were the same things. How often have I
told that as a warnings to mv poor old Pierre,
when his temper was not quite as it should
be!'

I don't think grand mamma was the first
person to say that,' said Antoinette.

Anyhow, it was Madame la Vicomtesse
who said it in my hearing, and I have never
forgotten it,' persisted Suzanne. ' And

another things I am sure of, that this English
captain would not have pleased Madame la
"Vicomtesse. He is not the sort of person
she would have liked to see in company with
mademoiselle.'

Well,' said Antoinette, with an impatient
little sigh, ' I said we would talk no more
about him. Tell me about the fete. Is it
going to be a good one, do you know ? Shall
I turn the wheels for you, and win a few
cups and saucers V

They had by this time reached the lower
end of the avenue, where it opened on a
road edged with poplars, leading along by
the river side. Under the trees the brown
earth was covered with what looked like a
soft shower of snow-flakes ; the downy blossoms
of the trees, which came floating down
almost without, a breath of wind to move
them. Antoinette stooped to pick up one or

two of the light white feathers, and she and
Suzanne both turned at the same moment
and looked back up the avenue. The Marquise
and her English cousin were walking
slowly down through the shadows and the
trembling, varied sunbeams.

Coming, after all !' muttered Suzanne ;
but Antoinette did not speak ; she only
walked on a little faster, and presently
seemed to forget these things in delighted
amusement at the gay booths with which the
village street was lined from end to end.

You and I will come down this afternoon,'
she said ; ' that is the best time for
buying. And then, after dinner, papa will
be here, and wee can all come down together.'

They walked on towards the church steps,
where the villagers were standing about in
groups, talking, while a few were slowly going*
into church. From inside the doors came a

sound of singing of litanies ; it was hardly time
yet for the Mass to begin. All the village faces
in the sunshine looked smiling and pleasant ;
the men's blouses looked stiff and new, the
women's caps even whiter than usual, in
honour of the fete. Last year it had rained ;
this year their village was highly favoured.

Antoinette spoke to a few of her special
friends, and smiled and nodded to others.
Her young bright face was full of sweetness,
especially for the quaint little children who
crowded round. Though so unlike her father
in appearance, she had all the simple charm
of manner which made him so popular among
the peasants.

M. le Capitaine has turned back ; there
is madame coming alone,' Suzanne said to
her as she was going on up the steps to
the church door.

Ah, we will go back,' the girl said

quickly ; and she set otF walking so fast that
Suzanne, who was fat, could hardly keep up
with her. Presently she turned back, feeling
herself no longer necessary, as mademoiselle
had joined her stepmother. The excellent
Suzanne looked annoyed, and went into
church muttering, with a cloud on her
charming face.

You were in a great hurry, 'petite,' said
Celia, who was looking as fair and serene as
usual. ' Why didn't you wait for me ?'

 I thought the bells had changed,' said
Antoinette, a little disturbed. And then 
when I first called Suzanne, I thought monsieur
your cousin was coming too ; and
when she came I thought I had better go
with her.'

Well, it doesn't matter,' said Celia lazily.
Monsieur my cousin does not care for our
services, you see.'
// VOL. III. 42

He is perhaps not exactly a Christian,'
said Antoinette after a little pause, with a
sort of awe in her voice.

Celia laughed.

My dear child, what extraordinary things
you say ! He would be amused. His father
is next door to a Bishop in the English
Church, and you accuse him of not being a
Christian. You must remember that very
few men are as good as your father, Netta.'

Ah, indeed, no !' cried the girl triumphantly,
with a smile in answer to the pet
name by which only her father called her.
What happiness that he is coming home
to-night !' she said, looking brightly into
Celia's face.

Yes ; it seems a long time since he went
away,' answered Celia.

She was never ecstatic. Sometimes Antoinette
could admire her quietness, the

steady and comfortable way in which she
took most things that happened. Once or
twice the girl had even distrusted her own
eager feelings ; they seemed shallow and
worthless beside that calm smile of Celia's,
which suggested depths it seemed to hide,
and put all hopes, and longings, and regrets
on their own proper level. Such an absence
of exaggeration produces trust, especially in
natures which are at once nobler and more
demonstrative. Yet, somehow, Celia's words
that morning fell a little coldly on Antoinette's
heart; and she could not quite reprove
and comfort herself in the old way, with the
old fiction : ' But she is his wife ; of course
she must love him even better than I do.'

The slight impression soon wore off, however,
and after the service Antoinette felt
happy enough, though Captain Percival was
loitering in the avenue, waiting for them.

42  2

He and Celia had plenty to say to each
other, and Antoinette disliked his presence
a little less when she was not obliged to talk
to him. After breakfast they all went out
again in the glorious sunshine, with the
dogs, and wandered round the still half-ruinous
precincts of the old place. Vincent
had a way of openly contrasting every shingle
saw with the English fashion of farming,
gardening, wood-craft, building, and so on,
very much to the disadvantage of France.
Antoinette thought all this anything but
polite or amiable, and devoted herself to the
dogs, while Celia argued with her cousin ina
peaceful, lazy way. Perhaps half his
remarks were made for the pleasure of being-contradicted,
and of indulging the peculiar
kind of impertinence which was almost his
native air.

Antoinette had riot been brought up in a

way to make her understand this ; and in
her simple heart she believed that he meant
earnestly all he said. Her father's frank
straightforwardness had not trained her to
understand the talk of the Vincent Percival
kind of man. She was glad enough to leave
him to Celia, while she made excursions with
the dogs wherever their fancy led them,
round the bright vineyards, through the
young chestnut woods, along by the wild
straggling hedges with their golden broom
and wild roses. The others did not trouble
themselves about her, any more than if she
had been a child or a dog. Vincent was
looking at Celia, when he was not finding
fault with the things she showed him. Celia
seemed a little more lively and active than
was usual with her now ; she laughed ; her
answers to his cool remarks had something
of the life and spirit of five years ago ; her

cheeks had a touch of lovely pink, and her
eyes were as blue as the sky. She and her
companion walked on rather quickly at last,
and were standing on the terrace when
Antoinette came up to them with a cluster
of yellow roses in her hand.

These are for you,' she said to Celia. ' The
tree in my garden is covered with them.'

Thanks, dear child,' said Celia graciously.

Have you a garden of your own, mademoiselle
? How charming !' said Vincent,
and he stretched out his hand for a rose,
which Celia oave him. ' You ouoht to
grow these roses for yourself, though, not
for Madame de Montmirail. They suit your
complexion, and not hers,'

 1 don't grow them for anybody  but she
likes them,' Antoinette answered rather
stiffly ; and then Celia interposed :

Have you enjoyed your walk, Antoinette ?

Are you tired ? You have been running
about with the dogs everywhere.'

Yes, mamaii, I have enjoyed it very
much ; the day is perfect. And you V

If looks tell the truth ' began Vincent.

Antoinette did not quite see why he
should answer for Celia ; but it was necessary
to listen to him, and Celia glanced up
and laughed. Certainly nothing could be
sweeter, more radiantly lovely, than her face
just then.

Looks ? What do you mean V she said
to Vincent.

Ah, maman, he means that you are looking
even more beautiful than usual,' murmured
Antoinette. ' Papa would say so if
he was here.'

Don't flatter me,' said Celia. ' Come,
you are both talking nonsense. I am tired.
I shall go in.'

I have seen you look like this before,'
said Vincent deliberately, staring at her.
Once in a garden, by a river, when you
chose to ofo in for being* a witch. You
looked as you do now, and awfully happy,
which you were, too, though there was a
poor devil at the other end  '

As he spoke, Celia turned pale to the lips,
though she looked at him steadily, the blue
light still shining in her eyes.

Yes  the dear old garden at River Gate,'
she said : ' how pretty it used to be in the
evening ! My memory is not so good as
yours, though, and I think I was always
awfully happy; and there were plenty of
other children, besides me, who used to like
playing at witches. Now 1 am going in ;
and I advise you to smoke, and meditate a
little. Come, Antoinette.'

Captain Percival found himself left alone

upon the terrace, where there was now a
Httle shade. He sat down on a bench, but
he did not smoke, and his meditations were
not particularly sweet. He was inclined to
call himself a fool ; had he been short-sighted
enough to make Celia angry ? There was a
kind of enjoyment in it, too, for a nature
like his ; quarrelling with her might be
better than a cold, painful pretence of being
the worldly friends of every day.' He told
himself truly that he could not manage to bea
humbug', an actor, like Celia herself His
nature was far too impatient, and not quite
trained and civilized enough, where she was
concerned. To a spoilt and imperious mind
like his there was some sort of satisfaction,
though a horrid and helpless one, in reminding
her of her own past doings. And yet,
by thus misbehaving himself, he felt that he
risked losing even the friendship that she

seemed willing to let him keep. As he sat
there on the terrace, listening to a distant
sound of gay dance music in the village, he
half expected Celia to come out of the house
again, having disposed of her young stepdaughter,
with the intention of telling him
that he had better go away the next morning.
He must agree with her ; it would be much
better; but he would at any rate indulge
himself by telling her a few truths before he
went. A fine scene, indeed, was prepared
for Celia in the thoughts of this troublesome
old lover of hers ; and when, after some
minutes, he heard the house-door open, he
got up and turned that way with a slight
feeling of triumph.

But it was not Celia, after all ; only the
child Antoinette, with her old Suzanne in
attendance.

Are you off for another walk V he said,

speaking quite gently in his disappointment.


We are going to vespers,' said Antoinette ;
and after that to see the fate.'

As she spoke, the church bells began to
chime.

May I go with you V said Vincent, he
did not know why.

No,' said Antoinette, shaking her head
with a slightly puzzled smile. 'Maman says
you will admire it more in the evening.'

And maman is always right V

But always !' Antoinette answered
gravely; and then she and the old nurse
went on their way, and Vincent returned to
his bench.

After this little touch of human intercourse
he felt more at his ease, and lighted
a cigarette.

Always right  never in the wrong 

RED TOWERS

trust you for that, Madame la Marquise !'
he muttered to himself, as he sat waiting for
Celia.

But Celia did not come.

M. DE MONTMIRAIL.

That sudden meeting of theirs was an awkward
moment, both to Achille de Montmirail
and to Paul Pomaine. Of the two, Achille
felt it most ; not that he was naturally a
more sensitive character, but he felt that all
the advantage of the past had been his. that
Paul's loss had been his gain, and that,
though he had had nothing: in the world todo
with the breaking off of Paul's engagement,
and had never known the history of it,
Paul could hardly, if he had ever cared for

Celia, feel quite so friendly again towards his
friend Who had married her.

Celia had had some excellent reason, her
husband did not doubt, for breaking off that
engagement ; not that they had ever gone
far into the subject together : but she had
said once, when he alluded to it, that it had
been a great mistake, that she and Paul
Romaine had never suited each other in the
least.

But, poor thing, he must have been very
miserable,' said Achille cheerfully.

I don't know,' said Celia, smiling. ' I
think he knew it was best. He was very
nice, poor boy, very nice indeed  charming
at times. I should like to hear of his marrying
happily.'

So M. Achille's feeling towards Paul,
when he met him again, was one of slightly
embarrassed pity and kindness.

Paul's own manner, at first, was rather
cool and indifferent. Four years and a half
aofo his thoughts about his French friend had
been tolerably hard ; that marriage, so quickly
arranged, had seemed to justify every form
of misanthropy ; but he was more reasonable
now, and it was without any sensation of
anger or dislike that he shook hands with the
Marquis, and received his exclamations of
surprise at their meeting.

He asked after Madame de Montmirail
quite as a matter of course.

Lie is very well, very well indeed said
Achille earnestly. ' And I am sure she will
be glad to hear of an old friend. What a
strange coincidence ! This very day she is
expecting a friend from England, a cousin,
M. le Capitaine Percival. Ah ! you know
him.'

I knew him once, a httle/ said Paul.

He was very nearly expressing his opinion
of Vincent in terms which would have
startled his smiling friend ; but he reflected
that it was no business of his, and only
asked : ' Do you often see him ? I thought
he was in India

M. de Montmirail explained that Captain
Percival had lately come home from India,
had found himself in Paris, had asked leave
to pay a visit to his cousin. She had written
to her husband about it ; of course he was
delighted to welcome any old friend of hers.

 I shall find him there tomorrow when I
go home,' said the Marquis. ' There is not
much to amuse him at this time of year, but
I shall be charmed to see him. You know
of old my opinion of the English.'

Paul smiled. Achille looked at him benevolently.


I want to hear a great deal about you

he said. *Soli look like a traveller  but
what have you been doing to-day, for instance
? What are all those flowers ? Have
you turned botanist ? Scientific ? A professor
of some kind, perhaps.'

No, I am not a professor of anything
said Paul. ' These things are rare, and interest
me rather. But to-day I have been
to see Chenonceaux.'

Ah ! You found nobody there, I hope.*

Chenonceaux old, Chenonceaux new, even
then connected nearly enough with French
politics  this was a subject that interested
M. de Montmirai], and he talked of nothing
else till they reached Tours. Then he found,
to his satisfaction, that he and Paul were
staying at the same hotel. They dined together
at the table crJwte, and went out
together afterwards. Paul told the story of
his travels, and they talked altogether in so

VOL. III. 43

friendly a strain, that al] awkwardness between
them vanished utterly. Achille was
much pleased with his favourite English boy,
grown into a man, and made slight attempts
to go back to the beginning of their friendship
; but Paul would not remember  would
not return to the old haunts of his youth.
He liked his present life better, and his
present state of mind  lonely, friendless, cold
and rather sceptical as it was. He took
Achille's demonstrations very quietly, with a
smile, but without much response, only wondering:
a little in his own mind how the man
who had married Celia could be so unsuspiciously
happy. Perhaps the very sweetness
of his nature had conquered her ; for he
certainly was one of the most lovable of
men.

On Sunday morning they went to the
Cathedral together, and afterwards walked

about among the old streets of Tours, and
stood on the bridge and looked at the broad
Loire, while M. de Montmirail told Paul of
all the curious things he ouoht to see in the
neighbourhood. Paul said he thought he
should go back to England the next day.
Later in the afternoon, when the Marquis
was going away, he suddenly gave words to
an idea which had been in his head all day,
as his kind blue eyes watched the rather
grave and melancholy aspect of the cher petit
Anglais he called his friend.

Come, then, Pomaine,' he said ; ' you and
I understand each other. I will answer for
my wife ; she will be glad to see you ; she
always speaks of you kindly. Come and
spend a few days with us, and let me show
you my old house. There will be a countryman
of your own to help you bear the
dulness. What do you say ?'

43  2

'You are very kind,' said Paul heartily.
Some day, perhaps  but not now. I really
must go back to England. I have many
reasons. But thank you very much for
asking me.'

Well, some day I shall write to you in
England, my friend, and then you must not
refuse me again,' said Achille. And so they
parted.

The doocart had been sent to Saint-bernard
Station to meet the train at six
o'clock, but the Marquis did not arrive.
Celia was disappointed ; the cart must go
again to meet the nine train, she said.
Antoinette was dreadfully distressed, and
her eyes were full of tears.

I thought papa would take us down to
see the fete after dinner,' she said dismally

all. mademoiselle, you have me,'
said Vincent Percival, putting on the theatrical

air which Antoinette especially hated,
knowing that it was meant by way of pleasing
her. ' If you and madame will condescend 
I don't pretend to be such a guard as M. le
Marquis  still, considering that your people
behave like angels on a holiday, and that the
v/ild beasts are shut up in a tent  what do
you say, madame V

Thank you,' said Celia, a little coldly ;
if you will go with us, we shall be very
glad ; and I dare say my husband will meet
us there. Unless it bores you too much V

Vincent made her a bow. ' You need not
be quite so barbarous.' he said, under his
breath.

In the warm lovely twilight after dinner,
while the gold glow of evening was dying
slowly away, the coffee was carried out on
the terrace, and these three people, not in a
very sociable frame of mind, sat and drank it

there. The dogs came crouching, old Di and
the rest, round Antoinette's chair, and she
fed them with bits of sugar. Sounds of gay
music, shouts of laughter and merry voices
now and then, came from the village on the
gentle south-west air. As the world faded
from gold to grey, star after star came out in
the darkening sky. The people on the terrace
were rather silent, a sort of shadow of
expectation hanging over them, though it was
impossible for Achille to arrive for some time
yet. His young daughter, at least, was
thinking of him, and wishing for him ; perhaps
his wife too, as she leaned lazily back,
and played with her fan. She made remarks
to Vincent now and then, but his answers
were rather absent and sulky. Antoinette
wondered, as she presently got up and strolled
away to the end of the terrace with the dogs,
how long this painful English cousin was

iioinof to stay. Well, never mind, it would
not matter, if only  le cher papa ' was at
home.

After a few minutes, her little terrier was
suddenly inspired with a wish to fly down and
bark at something in the avenue. The other
dogs rushed after him, and Antoinette, having
lingered a moment at the top of the steps,
slowly followed them down, and walked across
the broad space of the old court-yard, its
gravel gleaming in the pale evening light, as
far as where it opened on the avenue. Her
stepmother turned in her chair, looked after
her, and then looked at her watch.

Patience, madame ; it is not nearly nine
yet,' said Vincent, watching her. ' It is not
much more than half an hour since your pretty
Angelus rang. Certainly your life here is
very like a story-book.'

Do you think so V said Celia indifferently.

'An idol  yes, a complete idol. Pity I
came to spoil it  to disturb the peace *

My dear Vincent,' she said, in her clearest,
quietest tones, ' you seem to be bent on
disturbing yourself  but as for me and my
life, you need have no remorse at all. You
neither spoil nor disturb anything.'

Vincent looked at her in silence. The
light was growing so dim, that he could not
see her face very plainly ; but it appeared to
him that her looks were as cold as her words.

 Very good of you,' she went on,  but it is
no use trying to get up romances about me.
I am quite happy and satisfied. If I am
easily satisfied, that concerns me more than
my relations. Now, look here, Vincent, once
for all  it is no use trying to rake up things
that are past and gone  the time when I was
a silly girl though I don't think I was so
very silly. Can't you be friendly and straightforward,

and believe that I  that I am glad
to see you again ; but why do you make me
say all this V

Vincent was leaning a little forward, gazing
at her in the dusk. Perhaps this was the
reason that her voice changed, and she broke
off in a sort of sudden impatience and agitation,
getting up from her chair, too, in a
hurried way, unlike Celia. This had at once
the effect of making Vincent very quiet and
cool.

I am sorry if I have said anything to
annoy you, Celia,' he said. ' You are very
good to me, and I am immensely grateful.
As for thinking you a silly girl, I never did ;
and now I know you are a remarkably clever
and sensible woman.'

There was something bitter, something
contemptuous, either of herself or of him, in
the little lauofh with which Celia answered

him. She walked away to the balustrade of
the terrace, and stood there, straining her
eyes into the distance.

What is Antoinette dointjf down there V
she said ; ' talking to somebody on horseback !
It can't be Achille.'

No ; his train is not in yet said Vincent,
strolling after her, and standing beside her.

The horseman had now dismounted, and
came slowly up, leading his horse, Antoinette
and the dogs walking beside him. His hat
was off, with many polite greetings to the
Marquise, and a rather stiff bow to her
cousin, when she introduced him. It was
M. de Cernay, who even now had a habit of
riding over sometimes in the evening to see
his old friend. He shared in the exclamations
and regrets at Achille's coming back so
late. Then his horse was sent to the stables,
and after Antoinette had given him some

coffee, he agreed cheerfully to walk with them
to the village to see the fete ; so the party
set off together down the dark glimmering
avenue.

Antoinette was glad to see M. de Cernay.
He and the Baronne were always kind
and polite to her when they met, though
the intercourse between the two houses was
so very much less than it used to be. Madame
de Cernay would have patronized Antoinette
more, but the English stepmother and the
girl's real fondness for her were decidedly in
the way ; also, Madame de Cernay could not
quite forget or forgive the childish fit of
passion which had spoilt her plan of a charming
marriage for the Marquis, and a delightful,
sympathetic neighbour for herself It was
natural that Antoinette should like the good-natured
little Baron better than his wife.
He always behaved like an old friend, and

was ready with nice old childish jokes. This
evening he was especially welcome, as a
refuge, a sort of protection, from the disagreeable
talk and manner of the Englishman.
M. de Cernay himself was not at all favourably
impressed with Vincent. The first idea
which flashed into his active brain was. that
Madame de Montmirail meant to marry
Antoinette to this cousin of hers, who did not
look much younger than her husband. He
was not long in changing this opinion ; but as
they walked out of the avenue, and over the
bridge into the thronged and lighted village
street, he politely offered his arm to Antoinette
 there was no knowing, he thought,
how the obstinate, ignorant Englishwoman
might choose to compromise his friend
Achille's daughter. Antoinette was delighted
; she accepted the little Baron's arm
joyfully, and went about with him among the

crowd of smiling people, up to the long line
of booths with their glittering glass, and toys,
and china ; the dark, gipsy-looking sellers ;
the spinning lottery-wheels ; while Vincent
and Celia followed in their own fashion, she
looking graver than usual, he a little bored
and sulky. The gay scene, the laughter, the
lights, the music, met with no response in the
eyes of these two, as they made their way
through the crowd.

No one could deny that it was a wonderfully
pretty sight. Overhead the dark sky,
not black, but deepest blue, with a few stars
looking down ; in the middle of the village
the white church, its spire, like a flash of light
itself, piercing the darkness. The narrow
white line of the village street ran through
its whole length between rows of booths lit
up with bright white light, and along this
promenade the people crowded slowly, talking,

laughing, solemnly bargaining, rashly
venturing their sous, and setting the lottery-wheels
twirling for a choice among the heaps
of gay-coloured rubbish, which looked in all
this shining glitter like treasures out of the
Arabian Nights. Sometimes a procession of
young men and women, arm-in-arm, would
file out from a large wooden shed at the end
of the street, where merry music went on
playing, and take a turn up and down
amonof their friends in the intervals of dancing.
A little out of the way, up the hill by
the church, were one or two exhibitions,
which gathered a little crowd about their
doors ; these people were quieter than those
in the street, being partly awed by curiosity,
and by the darkness that stretched beyond.
There were hates forces to be seen here,
and a frightful sheet of flaming demons suggested
greater horrors still, but was only the

entrance after all to a performance of dancing
goats.

Orthodox, though a little far-fetched,' said
Vincent to Celia, the little Baron, who did
not understand, staring at him fiercely.

Achille de Montmirail drove slowly down
the hill into the village, into the midst of the
crowd. The road was soft with thick white
dust, and this, with the loud noise of laughing
and talking  especially near the Corbeau
Blanc, where people were a little, only
a very little, noisier than usual  prevented
his wheels and his horse's feet from bein'x
heard, so that he saw the people he was
looking for before they saw him. He first
saw old Pierre and Suzanne, dressed in their
best, Pierre's face at its sourest, looking on
at one of the lotteries, of which his wife had
just set the wheel twirling. There was quite a
curious little crowd round her as she stood

there, watching Avhat her luck would be.
Most of the people were smiling, some were
whispering. Celia's fair face under her black
hat looked wonderfully pretty, and not quite
so idly calm as usual. Some feeling, some
slight excitement, was ruffling the surface ;
she was not exactly smiling, but she was a
little flushed ; and as she won a third time,
to the dismay of the stall-keeper, who broke
out into exclamations and loud compliments
to madame, a smile suddenly came, and she
looked quickly round, with a sort of triumph,
into the face nearest her, the handsome, disagreeable
face of Vincent Percival, who was
standing close to her shoulder. She thus
turned her face away for a moment from her
husband, as he drove slowly down the hill ;
and his eyes fell next on his old friend De
Cernay, standing with Antoinette a little
behind. De Cernay looked grave ; the girl's

face was full of enjoyment. Achille was not
the man to trouble himself about the looks
on people's faces ; it only gave him a frank
feeling of satisfaction, that his wife was
beautiful, admired, and amused, his daughter
well and happy. In another moment he was
close to them ; the slight pressure of the
crowd, as they moved aside to make way for
his horse, the words ' Monsieur le Marquis,'
passed from one to another, made them aware
that he was come.

During the next few minutes Captain Percival
found himself nowhere. He stood
aside in the crowd, with his back to the
light, and looked on at the signs of a popularity
the existence of which, in France, he would
have been ready to deny. ' A great awkward
lout !' he tried to say to himself, as Achille,
who did not grow lighter with years, got
down rather carefully from his high dogcart.

VOL. III. 44

But once standing among the people  a full
head taller than most of them, with his handsome
face, fine manly figure, frank and open
manner, easy bearing, kind words for everyone
 though his foreign air and chatter
irritated Vincent, he could not honestly find
any bad thoughts to think of him.

He's a fool ; but he's a nice one,' the
critical spectator was obliged to allow.
Celia's taste was not so bad, after all.'

Come, we must walk through the fete
once, I suppose, and then we will go home,
if you don't mind,' said Achille to his wife,
when he had spoken to all the neighbours
within reasonable distance. ' Business tomorrow,
Martin, my good fellow,' as one of
the officials of the Mairie came hurrying upto
him. * What are you doing, Netta ?
Have you given toys to all these children ?
Et ton cousin, Ctlie f in a low voice to

his wife. * Ah ! good-evening, sir. I am
charmed to see you. You have come to us
at an amusing: moment.'

The Marquis made Vincent a low bow,
and then shook hands with him, while the
village looked on, deeply interested. Then
the whole party moved slowly on, and old
Pierre muttered in Suzanne's ear :

According to me, it was time he came
home to look after his own affairs.'

That night it suddenly struck Mademoiselle
Antoinette that Captain Percival
could, after all, be rather pleasant. He
walked with her up the avenue, in the soft
darkness, which was all the deeper that they
had left the glittering lights of the fete
behind them. His eyes were very quick,
even quicker than her own young ones, and
he could make out the three figures a few
yards in front  her father, Celia, M. de

442

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY.

Cernay, who had already dashed into the
business about which he came to consult
his friend Achille. Antoinette had been a
little disappointed at first ; she wanted her
father's arm, and had found herself half forgotten
and left behind for a moment, because
she stopped to give a stick of sucre de pomme,
in lovely pink paper, with gilt ornaments, to
old Mere Clopin for her grandchild. Then
Vincent, who was lingering behind too, came
up and offered to carry her parcels  a thing
he had never been known to do in England
and they were many and fragile, so that
she was very much obliged to him ; and as
they followed the others she told him about
all the presents she was going to give, and
he promised to tell nobody. He admired
the glow-worms, too, shining here and thereon
the grass in the avenue, and he finally
made himself most agreeable by saying :

'It is easy enough to see that M. che
Montmirail is popular in his village.'

And do you wonder, may I ask V said
Antoinette.

No, I don't wonder at all. He is such a
very splendid specimen. Of course he has
his own way every where. I only wonder
that you have not made him President of
the Republic'

Moil Diei ! but he would not ' cried

Antoinette.

No, of course not ! I beg your pardon.
Was ever anyone so thoughtless and
ignorant ?

Not ignorant, but very thoughtless,' said
Antoinette, laughing.

And now they were near the top of the
avenue, coming out into the faint glimmer of
starlight. Celia turned back to meet them,
attracted by Antoinette's laugh, and perhaps

remembering that she had neglected her a
little. But somehow, though she hardly
knew it herself, she had wanted the touch of
Achille's hand in the dark avenue.

M. de Cernay stayed very late that night,
having a great deal to talk about. The three
men sat smoking together, Vincent taking
an occasional turn on the terrace, honos after
Celia and Antoinette had gone upstairs.
When at last the visitor had ridden away,
Achille found his wife sitting at an open
window in the starlight  one of the west
windows of her tower room, where Suzanne
had seen the illumination.

Not gone to bed, Celia ! Why are
you so restless ? Are you ill ?' he asked
anxiously.

'" *No, I am very well ; but I am not sleepy,
and the night is so beautiful,' she said.  Tell
me,' as he came and leaned over the back of

her chair, * what made you so late this evening
? I thought you were coming at six, and
I was disappointed.'

Were you, dearest V he said ; and then he
began to tell her about his business at Tours,
and added, with a little hesitation : ' Yesterday
in the train I met with an old friend  a
friend of yours too, once, and I spent several
hours with him to-day. He was staying at
the hotel. To tell you all the truth, I asked
him to come here  and then I shivered till
he said no, for I thought you might be angry
and yet it is all so long ago ; and the poor
fellow seemed lonely.'

Celia listened, sitting very still, gazing out
into the warm darkness.

Who was it V she said, with a touch uf
hardness in her voice ; ' I can't imagine who
you mean.'

Can't you ? It was Romaine  with a

fine beard, and the air of behoof at least ten
years older. He has been all over the world,
and now is on his way back to Surrey. He
inquired amiably for you.'

 Paul Romaine ! with a beard ! how ridiculous
!' said Celia, and she laughed.

 What would you have said, if I had
brought him home with me ?'

Nothing, except that it; was very nice of
you to think of it.'

Celia did not often disturb herself unnecessarily,
and she could afford to be perfectly
indulgent to Achille on the subject of this
frightful indiscretion, which after all it really
was. She had no wish ever to see Paul
again  and the idea of his meeting Vincent
at her house was quite out of the question.
But she felt securely certain that Paul
would never wish to do anything but avoid
her.

We should have been quite an English
household,' she said, smiling up sweetly at
Achille. ' Y ou see I have got my poor Vincent
 home from the wars.'

Your poor Vincent is rather a ferocious-looking
fellow,' said the Marquis. ' Not that
I don't like him, He interests me; he seems
intelligent. He entered a good deal into
what De Cernay and I were talking about
just now  this scheme of a Farmers' Insurance.'


'Ah, you must tell me about that said
Celia. ' It is nice to have you back, dear
friend ; it makes one feel good and safe and
comfortable. Antoinette and I cannot manage
to live at all without you.'

Poor little Antoinette ! As to you, my
beautiful, it is a temptation to go away sometimes,
for the pleasure of coming back,' said
Achille.

RED TOWERS

Everybody knew that the Marquis de
Montmirail, after being more than four years
married, was still in love with his wife. * Just
like him,' said everybody

BOIS-LE-COMTE.

When Captain Percival first came to the
Chateau de la Tour Blanche he had no intention
of staying there more than a few
days. Even ideas of rushing away the next
morning had several times crossed his mind,
when Celia's matter-of-factness or her husband's
brood-humour bored him beyond endurance,
or when some fancied little slight
upset the balance of his temper more than
usual. But still he lingered on from day today.
treated by everyone with much more
kindness than he deserved, and quite incapable

of knowing that his departure might be
something of a relief to two at least of the
family.

He lounged about the old place in the
glorious heat of June, and watched them all,
not caring much to share in any of their
doings, but making his remarks freely after
his own fashion. They indulged him and
endured his ways just as other people had
done before, for he was original, and could
be very pleasant when he liked. There was
no stiffness to be seen anywhere, except in
the face and manner of old Pierre, who disliked
the English stranger so much that he
would hardly wait upon him. As to Celia,
her tiresome cousin had apparently lost the
power of worrying her, which he had certainly
possessed when he first came to the
chateau. To a creature of his temperament,
there was something vexatious in the interest

she took in everything that went on round
her : in her husband's plans and pursuits, in
Antoinette's lessons, in the poor people, the
Cure and his charities, the dogs, the horses,
the farm, the vineyard. If she was not busy
with some of these things, she was working
hard at her embroidery. She did not feel
the heat, though to Vincent, an old Indian,
it was almost overpowering ; she walked
about all day with a large white parasol, and
was always calling Antoinette to go with
her. Feelings of unreasoning anger devoured
Vincent : he was suspicious of Celia, refusing
in his heart to believe that she cared a straw
for all these things ; but at the same time he
was jealous of them all, of everything and
everybody that seemed to occupy and interest
her ; they were all his enemies, his rivals ;
he felt himself neglected and thrown aside
for them every hour of the day. Sometimes

he almost hated Celia ; and there had always
been more earnest than play in his amiable
wish that he might have the chance of burning
her house down.

So the days went on, and in the atmosphere
of La Tour Blanche, with its usual
light-hearted sweetness, Vincent moved about
rather like a spirit of darkness. Everybody
else was happy, it seemed ; but his peculiarities
did not trouble them much. After all,
he reflected, he did not belong to them, his
humours did not matter to them ; the politeness
with which they treated him cost them
nothing. He was unhappy, though not nearly
so much so as he thought himself He could
not make up his mind to go away, though he
knew he had better not stay ; but he was
tolerably sure not being omniscient, with all
his cleverness  that he hurt nobody but himself
by staying.

When he had been about three weeks at
La Tour Blanche, a stupid little thing happened.
As Celia had told him, there were
very few people in the country at this time,
but these few were very sociable, and saw a
good deal of each other. One day he went
with his friends to dine with some distant
cousins of Achille's, who lived about ten
miles off. He had half wanted to stay at
home, but Celia, knowing him better than he
knew himself, insisted on his going. They
were nice people, she said ; they had always
been kind to her, and their chateau was very
old and curious. She did not tell Vincent
that if he stayed at home, though by his own
choice, he would feel himself injured and
neglected, and would be in a bad temper all
the next day.

Come; I want you,' she said kindly. 'You
don't so very often do anything to please me.*

Don't I ? And whose fault is that, T
wonder,' said Vincent.

But he submitted, and went.

It was all as Celia had described it, and
rather amusing. The people were kind and
old-fashioned, very demonstrative, tremendous
Royalists, living quite out of the world,
and talking so fast that a foreigner could
hardly understand them. Their chateau
dated from the time of Francois Premier,
part of it earlier still ; it had several great
strong towers, a clothier large enough for
all the pigeons in the country, and vast rooms
leading one into the other  terrible in winter,
desolate enough even on a summer evening,
though deliciously cool. No modern restorer
had found his way into the Chateau of 
; no modern wealth and taste had
furnished these rooms in one correct style or
another. The windows were shaded with

mean chintz curtains, and spindle-legged furniture,
Which might have dated from the
First Empire, stood stiffly on the bare floors.
From the great high pale walls looked down
a collection of the strangest family portraits
that Vincent had ever seen. The old plate
and china, however, were magnificent ; the
dinner was perfectly cooked, and enormously
long ; and both hosts and guests were full of
kindness and good-humour. It was not a
large party  only Monsieur and Madame de
Cernay, and some other people from an opposite
direction. These and the people of
the house were devoted to Achille and Celia.
Antoinette had her confidences with one or
two other young girls. Vincent would have
found himself rather left out in the conversation,
if Madame de Cernay had not exerted
herself to be agreeable to him. She was not
fond of the English, it was true ; but this
VOL. III. 45

was a good-looking man  a soldier, with
something interesting about him. It would
do him no harm, she probably thought, to
realize that there were other handsome
women in the world besides his cousin ; those
discontented eyes of his might be better employed
than in following the pretty Marquise
for ever. If there was any further malice in
Madame de Cernay's motive, it must be remembered
that she and her husband had
been Achille de Montmirail's most intimate
friends, before his second marriage disappointed
them, and changed everything.

Vincent had no particular objection to
flirting with Madame de Cernay. Though
in theory he disliked Frenchwomen, he was
as ready to be flattered and spoilt by a
Frenchwoman as by anybody else. Madame
de Cernay had fine eyes and a pretty complexion,
knew how to amuse herself and

Other people, did not care much what she
said, and was bent on being agreeable to
him. Perhaps after all, if Celia looked that
way, she might as well see how thoroughly
well he was entertained for once. So thought
the hero to himself.

After dinner, as he and Madame de Cere
were going back with the others into the
drawing-room, passing through one or two
great bare vaults of dimly-lighted rooms,
he suddenly stooped to pick up a rose
that somebody before them had just let
fall.

At the same moment Antoinette sprang
forward from behind.

Ah ! you saw it  mamma's rose. Shall
I give it back to her V

No, thanks,' said Vincent, quietly keeping
possession. ' I picked it up ; it is my prize,
not yours, mademoiselle.'

452

But she will miss it ; she will want it,'
said the girl, smiling.

Then I'll give it back to her.'

And a very pretty one, too said Madame
de Cernay, admiring the rose, which he
carried in his hand. ' I like that wild sort
of rose, myself: cream flushed with red, like
a sunrise, if I am not too poetical. But it
is not so like Madame de Montmirail ; it is
not the right rose for her.'

And why not, pray, madame V asked
Vincent.

How do I know ?' said the Baronne. and
she looked critically at the rose, her lips
trembling with mischief ' It is one of those
things one feels and cannot explain. You
certainly ought not to want an explanation 
you feel it just as I do. There is too much
ahandoiij too much carelessness, about this
rose ; what shall I say 1 it has a passion, a

sentiment, which hardly suits our pretty
Marquise. If I gave her a rose it would bea
blush rose, something between white and
pink, with softly-rounded leaves that always
keep their place, and carry their lovely bloom
a certain strength in all their softness.
As to this wild thing here, it is a Bohemian,
a gipsy of a rose. Give it to me, monsieur.
I am an old woman, but it suits me better
than it suits madame your cousin.'

You make the rose so interesting, madame,
that I think I must keep it myself,' said
Vincent; and just then the master of the
house came up to talk to Madame de Cernay,
and he moved away, carrying his rose, to the
other side of the room.

Later in the evening they went out, and
sat in the warm soft moonlight on a kind of
high terrace or rampart overlooking a deep
moat, now dry and ivy-grown. The great

white walls of the chateau, with loophole slits
of windows, closed them in on two sides ;
then there was the drawbridge, now fixed,
leading out to a wide courtyard.

Everybody sat in a circle, talking ; little
dogs played about ; Antoinette, still childish,
wandered off with her young friends ; and
Vincent presently slipped away too, and
strolled along by the wall of the moat and
leaned over it, gazing into the dim depths
beneath, rather sulky and alone.

Everyone had been very civil to him, but
Celia had left him too much to her friends ;
she had not looked at him or spoken to him
through that whole evening, though she
must have seen him standing about, waiting
for the slightest encouragement to give her
back her rose.

Suddenly, as he stood there, he muttered
something indignantly, and threw the rose

over the low wall. At the same moment,
before it had reached the grassy ditch below,
a voice close to him exclaimed :

Mon Dieu ! Poor rose ! I would not
have treated you like that. But no doubt
you are punished for the crimes of somebody
else.'

Vincent started, and laughed nervously.
Madame de Cernay was standing by his side,
looking very handsome and smiling in the
moonlight, and waving' her fan.

I beg your pardon, madam e. I did nob
hear you. I thought I was alone,' he said,
and for once he was confused.

 People cannot expect to be alone at a
dinner-party,' said Madame de Cernay. 'And
people with well-regulated minds don't wish
it. Have I offended you ? I am sorry ; but
you interest me. The fact is, as my husband
tells me, I am too soft-hearted. I can't

enjoy myself when other people are looking
miserable.'

And you think that I am looking miserable
V said Vincent.

Well  not too happy.'

You are kinder than most people,' he said,
standing upright before her, and looking on
the ground. * Most people enjoy the miseries
of their fellow-creatures.'

And who, for instance, is so barbarous V
Most people, if they are perfectly contented
themselves, expect all the world to be
so too.'

Even the hearts that they have trodden
under foot, on their way to victory,' murmured
Madame de Cernay. ' Well, yes, dear
monsieur, there is plenty of that kind of hardness
in the world ; but I did not know it was
common among your excellent English.'

A great deal of it is put on ; it is not

real. But when people have chosen wrong,
they choose to stick to then' choice, and pretend
they like it. I suspect that sort of thing
is more En owlish than French,' said Vincent.
He seemed, somehow, to be thinking aloud.
Madame de Cernay opened her eyes wide,
and listened with all her ears.

Fate is hard on all of us, sometimes.
But there is compensation  generally, at
least.'

Some people don't want any.'

Then they must be excellent or perhaps
happier than you think.'

 Oh, perfectly happy ! Nobody could doubt
that,' said Vincent ; and as Madame de Cere
paused for a moment, looking at him
curiously, the talk at the far end of the
terrace broke into sudden peals of laughter ;
Celia's laugh, always particularly sweet, rang
clear amonsf the rest. At the same time

there was a pushing back of chairs on the
gravel, and a distant growl of thunder seemed
to explain the sultry heaviness of heat which
had brooded over the evenings.

The air is very electric said Madame de
Cernay amiably. ' There will be a storm,
and after that you will feel better. And if
you like, monsieur, I can show you a little
staircase which leads down into the moat.
You will easily find your rose. I see it from
here.'

Thank you, madame, but it may as well
stay where it is,' said Vincent, rather crossly.

'Well, yes. as your cousin does not seem
to miss it, I aerree with you. But now you
perceive that you might as well have given it
to me.'

'Ah, no, madame,' he said with a laugh;
you are quite clever enough to see that that
was impossible.'

But this is very serious !' said Madame de
Cernay, with a half-joking air of sympathy.
You have no idea of the confidences you
have made to me this evening.'

Have I V he said. ' I don't think so. It
is your Wonderful perception.'

I am not generally supposed to be stupid.
I tell you, you interest me, and I have a
fancy for knowing people's histories. So
now I know a little bit of yours, and I don't
blame you.'

'There is no one to be blamed,' he began,
turning upon her almost angrily ; but the
group was breaking up, and now Celia came
to meet them along the terrace.

Have you seen Antoinette V she said.
We are going. Where is my rose, Vincent ?
I thought I saw it in your hand.'

Ah, there !' laughed Madame de Cernay.
After carrying it about for an hour, and

refusing to give it to me, and finally dropping
it into the moat '

Oh, it does not matter in the least,' said
Celia amiably. ' It would have been quite
faded by this time.'

Vincent Percival was not all bad, or all
foolish. He remembered too late that there
was no love lost between this Frenchwoman
and Celia ; their manner to each other, withall
its politeness, was enough to tell anyone
that. The idiocy of his behaviour appeared
to him, as they drove home, in something of
its proper light. The thunderstorm had
come on quickly, and the last \e miles of
their way was through pouring sheets of
rain, constant cracking peals of thunder, and
lightning terrible and beautiful, which came
flashing every minute, illuminating the broad
sweeps of country, the woods, the distant
hills, all lost again instantly in a blackness
deeper than ordinary night.

I am afraid our fine weather is breaking
up said M. de Montmirail.

Ah, what a pity ! It will spoil all the
roses,' cried his daughter.

I must be breaking up, too said Vincent
from his corner. ' I should be glad
to be back in Paris tomorrow night, if
you will be good enough to send me to the
station.'

A flash of lightning at the moment showed
Celia's face. She was looking up with quite
a new expression  startled dismay ; a sort of
sudden pain which rushed to the surface
before she had time to hide it.

To-morrow !' she said.

'My dear cousin,' said Achille, with grave
kindness, ' I am afraid we have not made
your visit pleasant to you. Or is it that you
dislike our storms'? There is something of
the fiery south in them, it is true ; but they
don't come every day.'

Thanks. I have had a very jolly visit,
and I like your storms  they are the real
thing,' said Vincent. ' But I have been
idling here for three weeks now, very much
in your way, all of you '

Du tout  not at all, my cousin, I assure
you !' exclaimed Achille.

Another flash of lightning, and Celia's
face again in the dark corner ; this time it
was quiet and thoughtful, and she was looking
down. As Vincent looked, she shrugged
her shoulders a little, and pulled her wraps
more closely round her.

You are very good,' he said to the Marquis.
' But these things must come to an
end. C'est magnifique, mais ce nest pas laguerre'


Achille laughed. ' Very well, very true
he said. ' But you weill come again.'

Vincent did not find that his hostess made



any objection to his going away. She took
it as a matter of course, like most other
things, and did not trouble herself to express
any regrets. He was half glad that it was
so easily settled, half savage at her apparent
indifference.

She would make more fuss if some fool of
a Frenchman was going away, after being
here two nights  M. de Cernay, or that old
fellow at Bois-le-Comte,' Vincent told himself,
as he came down to breakfast that last
morning, and heard her laughing with Antoinette
before he reached the dining-room. ' I
wish I had never come,' he went on thinking.
Why did I come ? Because I wanted to
see what her life was like, and whether she
was changed, and so on. Well, her life is a
poor sort of thing, and she is not changed.
Just the same cold-blooded creature ; and
yet  well, there is no understanding her.'

He perhaps understood her still less, when
after breakfast it appeared that she was going
to drive with him herself to the station at
Saint-Bernard. It would be convenient to
her, she said ; she had business in the town ;
she made no pretence of wishing to see him
off, merely saying in her calm way, ' I can
drop you at the station.' But why should
she have done it at all ?

 I would have gone with pleasure,' said
the Marquis, ' but I have an engagement at
the Mairie.'

I know you have, mon ami," said his wife.
And I won't take Antoinette, because I
know she does not want to come.'

But anything you like ' the girl

began ; but her stepmother put her aside
very gently, but decidedly.

It is all arranged,' she said. ' The carriage
will be here in a quarter of an hour, Vincent 

if you will be ready.' And she went out
of the room.

So Captain Percival ended his first visit to
La Tour Blanche. It was a glorious day
after the rain ; all the world fresh and glittering
with raindrops, under a sky that looked
as if it knew no storms. The Marquis and
Antoinette stood on the terrace, and wished
him a good journey. Achille was kind and
smiling, as usual, and shouted some little
commission to his wife at the last moment.
Antoinette looked a little grave. When the
carriage had whirled off down the avenue,
she turned to her father, and with a little
movement of involuntary relief, put her hand
in his arm.

I wonder if mamma's cousin has many
friends she said  ' whether many people like
him in England.'

How can I tell ? His relations seem to

VOL. III. 46

like him,' said her father. ' You are a little
prejudiced, and so is M. de Cernay ; but
neither of you likes the English.'

Oh, I like the English. I always agree
with you. Only this one is so very discontented.
He has the air of a wild beast
looking' out of a hole.*

What a pretty comparison ! And you in
your pinafore are like an over-grown chicken.
Run avva3and feed your animals. I must goto
the village.'

Antoinette went off lauofhinof ; but after a
minute or two she became crave and thoughtful,
and the old woman who looked after the
geese found her a little severe that morning.
As to M. le Marquis, he might be heard
whistling, in his undignified fashion, all the
way down the avenue.

Celia had plenty to say, as she and Vincent
drove thrush the wooded lanes to Saint-bernard.

Her talk was all about nothing
nothing, at least, that interested him ;
the houses in the neighbourhood, the people
last night, various little plans of her
own.

I wish I was going to Paris, too she
said. 'You will find it lovely ; only getting
a little too hot.'

No ; it won't be too hot. Come with me,'
said Vincent, rather grimly.

'Ah, what fun if I could !' she said lightly.
But now tell me  when are you coming
again V

'Never.'

Oh, what a bad compliment to us all !
Nonsense ! I shall expect you in August.
And Vincent, 1 wish you would bring Aunt
Flo with you. Uncle Tom won't come ; he
is so very strict, isn't he ? But I was always
fond of poor dear Aunt Flo, and I should

462

like to see her again. It would do her so
much good, too. Now tell her, when you
go home, that sou have promised to bring
her to me in August. Don't forget.'

Charity begins at home,' said Vincent.

You are too deep for me. I don't understand
you.'

I must think of myself first. It might be
good for my mother, but it would be bad forme.
I couldn't stand another three weeks of
it, Celia.'

Have you been so horribly bored, then V
she said in her cool, unconscious way. ' Well,
I am very sorry ; but you will find it quite
different in the autumn. Perhaps September
will be better than August. We are really
very gay then. You will come then ; I shall
consider it an engagement.'

Why do you want me to come V And
then he laughed.

Because we are old friends, and I like
you. So does Achille.'

Thank you. It does great credit to
Achille's amiable disposition.'

I think so too, to tell you the truth,' said
Celia. ' But nobody can deny that you are
original, and so an interesting study.'

What a happy life, to be an interesting
study I One might as well be a fossil dug
out of that bank yonder.'

You are the most difficult person to please
that I ever met. Most people like to know
that they are interesting.'

Vincent made no answer, and for a few
minutes Celia looked away at the poplars b}
the road-side. They were close on Saint -
Bernard now.

'Well,' he said at last, as they began to
rattle at a tremendous pace through the stony,
narrow street, 'it is not your fault if your

kindness is thrown away. As you ask nie to
come again, I probably shall ; you know what
you are doing. For several reasons it might
be better not ; but if you really wish me to
come '

You are talking in wonderful riddles,' she
said.

Of which you know the answers,' Vincent
interrupted her.

She bowed her head. There was a faint
look of annoyance on her beautiful face,
and her colour deepened slightly as she
said:

I dare say we understand each other well
enough  quite as well as we need. I hope
you will give my message to Aunt Flo.'

They stopped at the station, and just then
Monsieur and Madame de Cernay drove past,
with much smiling, and waving, and salutation.
The sight of Madame de Cernay

reminded Vincent what a fool he had made
of himself the night before, and improved his
manners and his temper suddenly.

He shook hands with his cousin, and said
good-bye in a slightly off-hand way.

Till September, then,' she said ; and she
gave him a charming smile as he stood on the
station steps ; then the carriage dashed away
round a corner, and she was ozone.

He stood, for a moment, looking blankly
after her.

Why am I going away { I need not have
gone. What a hopeless ass I am ! She is
simply magnificent.'

These, and more reflections like them, occupied
Captain Percival's mind through most
of his journey.

OLD Friends.

It was not till Paul Romaine found himself
back at Red Towers that things began to
take their right proportions in his mind, with
the discovery that after all, there was a good
deal worth living for in life still. Sometimes
duty, like a passion, pulls a man with strong
cords, so that he must follow her ; and for
the last few months, though Paul was hardly
conscious of it, she had been pulling him
home to Red Towers.

He was no longer the absent young Squire

who five years ago had wandered through his
woods, lost in dreams of music and poetry
and the first love which had spoilt the best
years of his youth for him. Even now he
was only twenty-eight ; but in mind he was
a good deal older ; and so Mr. Bailey, the
agent, found, when with some little amusement
and curiosity he obeyed Paul's summons
to go over the estate with him. All sorts of
reforms were instantly set on foot ; money
was spent in all directions, on cottages, farms,
land, parish improvements, all with a singular
leaning to the interest of the tenants, rather
than of the landlord.

Mr. Bailey told everyone that Red Towers
would be a model estate very soon ; he himself
especially marvelled at Paul's keen observation,
and at all the suggestions that
came from him. The neighbours, who were
rather more numerous than they used to be,

did not even now find Paul very sociable ;
the Vicar and Dr. Graves seemed to be the
only two people of whom he cared to see
much, and he was rather tormented by a
large artist family which had taken Canon
Percival's house for the summer. There
were several girls, who prowled sketching
about the woods, and whose art had not
been to them much of an education ; for they
found the tall dark Squire a most interesting
person, and seemed to have a keen instinct
for the picturesque places through which his
daily walks might lead him.

Paul was too chivalrous not to behave
kindly and civilly to his tenants. He fled
from these young people, it is true, on every
occasion, but he sent their mother great
baskets of roses, and he went to see her
sometimes when the girls were out. She
was a quiet woman with some good sense of

her own, dwelling far below the artistic
heights of her family.

It was of course practically impossible for
Paul to see nothing of people who lived a
few hundred yards from his own door ; and
after one of the girls, who was musical, had
discovered his great talent for music, his
isolation began to be more impossible still.
Dr. Graves and Mr. Bailey agreed that
Paul's escape would be a miracle, and all the
old servants, Sabin and his wife, Ford, Barty,
Mrs. Perks  Barty had now married the
housemaid at Bed Towers, and lived in
Colonel Ward's old cottage to take care of it
grew more angry and anxious every day.
To think that the master, who was to have
married a beautiful grand young lady like
Miss Darrell, should take up with one of
these little painting upstarts, that nobody
ever heard of before  it was felt as a disgrace

that such a thing should be ever talked
of in the village. And in the meantime,
Paul went unconscious on his vay. He did
not want to hear Miss Sibyl Cox play the
organ, and he was rather bored and vexed
when Miss Phyllis Cox presented him with
a sketch she had made of Ped Towers. He
stuck it up on the bookcase in the study,
however, and spoke sharply to Sabin when it
disappeared and was found hidden under a
pile of newspapers.

He wants somebody to look after him,
does that young man,' remarked Mrs. Sabin,
who had been guilty of hiding the sketch.
' There ain't even the Colonel now. He's
just as simple and innocent as when he was a
boy, and he'll fall a prey to some of their
designing things, see if he don't.'

The Sabins were still more alarmed one
day, when Paul came in with Mr. Cox, the

father ; it was the first time that any of the
family had been inside Ked Towers. Paul
took Mr. Cox all over the house, through
the bare, unfinished rooms ; strangely fresh
they looked, these rooms unused for nearly
five years, the walls dressed in Celia's
favourite colours ; but Mrs. Sabin had taken
food care of them. Mr. Cox was a man of
taste, according to the notions of the present
day ; he could talk very wisely

Of tint and tone,
Of subtle green and grey.'

He had done a good deal in the way of
decorating and furnishing houses ; and now
it had occurred to Paul that his old house
ought not to be left in its present state any
longer, and he wanted Mr. Cox's advice as
to setting to work upon it. Mr. Cox suggested
a few things rather modestly ; and
then, quite in innocence, for he was an honest

little man, devoted to his art, he said that his
daughters, Phyllis and Emily, had made a
study of the subject, and that a good many
houses in London had been decorated after
their ideas.

It is a pleasure to see them among
draperies,' said Mr. Cox. * Phyllis can hang
a curtain in a hundred different ways, I
believe ; her folds are delicious. Emily's
strong point is a corner ; she can do anything
with a corner. A recess, too ; you have so
many recesses here. Yes, these old rooms
are suggestive to the last degree.'

And the colour, the foundation is all
1 might, is it V said Paul.

It is utterly satisfying,' Mr. Cox replied.

Thank you,' said Paul.

He said no more ; the jargon repelled him
now, as it had repelled him before, though
from the lips of Celia. But he walked with

the artist aloof the common to his house, in
the glowing beauty of the summer evening.
Somebody hurried out of the wood, not intime
to overtake them ; it was PhylHs  she
lead been sketching in that corner, loved by
artists, where Celia sat and read Vincent
Percival's letter, one October day long ago.
Phyllis was not pursued into the wood by
the Squire : no such luck for her ; she saw
him leave her father at the gate, and walk
on himself down the lane towards the village,
where there was no chance of catching him.
The next best thing was to hurry home and
hear what he and her father had been talking
about.

Paul went marching on at a great pace
down the sandy lane. It was the middle ot
August, a beautiful time for this country of
his. The heather, in its fullest bloom, lay
like a purple carpet on the commons and

hills ; harvest was going on slowly in the
fields among the dark rich woods ; here and
there was a field of standing sheaves ; here
and there waggons were moving, while in
many places the corn still glowed gold or red,
giving a wonderful brilliancy to the summer
landscape, with its background of blue and
purple hills that faded gradually away into
shining, misty distance.

The tenderness and beauty of the evening,
the white church spire in the foreground of
that view, as Paul walked down to it, could
not fail of their effect on a nature like his.

He was thinking of his old friends ; he had
been thinking of them all day, with a sort of
loneliness, a longing to hear again some voice
he used to love, which had in fact driven
him to that consultation with Mr. Cox.

Paul's practical doings had still their little
romantic inspirations, though Mr. Bailey 

not, perhaps, Dr. Graves  would have been
surprised to hear it. Paul was not thinking
of Celia, not consciously at least ; that meeting
with her husband had removed even any
lingering regret ; he was beginning to know
that he had outlived that passion of his
boyish days. Bat he was feeling utterly
friendless. His naturally affectionate nature
was starving, in its native air, for some other
human being to give it what it missed.

He was thinking of the dear old Colonel,
how he and his dogs used to walk about the
lanes, how he was in and out of Red Towers
at all hours of the day, how he almost looked
upon the place as his own. How angry he
was when Paul talked of marrying, and then
well, the finest natures are the most easily
deceived  it was no wonder that Celia
fascinated him. The latter part of the story
was too sad to be thought all over again ; but

VOL. III. 47

Paul remembered, rather vaguely, that the
Colonel had once vexed him by ordering a
tree to be cut down. If he was here now 
dear old man !  he might cut down every
tree in the wood.

Then all these thoughts of Colonel Ward
led on to the thought of Mrs. Percival,
Colonel Ward's ideal all through his simple,
faithful life ; her soft brown eyes, her pretty
white hands, the sweet smile and manner
which attracted so many people.

She had always been very kind to Paul
when he was a boy ; she had been more like
his mother than anyone else. He did not
quite know, now, what she had done that
could not be forgiven ; probably Celia had
deceived her too.

For some weeks past Paul had been a little
self-reproachful as regarded Mrs. Percival.
Very soon after he came home, having heard

of it by some chance, she had written him
one of her pretty notes, asking him to come
and see them at Woolsborouofh. Paul, still
cased in the cold crust of a hardened traveller,
and full of his new resolve to devote himself
sternly to his tenants, and to live like a
hermit in England, with occasional visits to
the East, had sent a short and snubbing
answer to this invitation.

He had told himself clearly that he had
better have nothing more to do with that
family, and he meant to carry out this intention.
But somehow, several times things at
Holm that reminded him of Colonel Ward
reminded him of Mrs. Percival too. He was
never able to help thinking of her, for
instance, when he stood by the Colonel's
grave in the little still churchyard with its
old yew-trees, one of which, about sunset,
threw a shadow on the grave.

472

The Colonel himself had always been faithful
to his old loves and friendships. How
would it have been, Paul sometimes wondered,
if he had lived a few weeks long-er, lived to
know of Celia's falseness ? He used to say
that he never changed his mind about anybody.
Well, even in that case, he would not
have changed his mind about Mrs. Percival,
and after all, why should he ?

Paul paid a shorter visit than usual that
evening to his old friend's grave, and he did
not go on into the church, as he had done two
or three times lately, to bring back old
memories in solemn music  music which had
once brought Miss Sibyl Cox peeping in at
the church door  but he turned off, and
walked back at a great jace to Red Towers
to catch the post, by which he sent a few
lines to Mrs. Percival :

If you and Canon Percival would not

dislike it, and are quite alone, I should be
glad to spend a couple of days with you.'

In answer to this, Mrs. Percival sent him
a more affectionate welcome than he felt he
deserved. He at once decided to go to Wools-borough
the next day, taking with him a
large box of curiosities he had brought from
the East, and had never cared to unpack.
It had seemed dull work, bringing all these
pretty things home to an empty house, for no
one but himself. Mrs. Percival would like
them, he thought, and they would make a
little amends for his ungraciousness.

He started off to Woolsborough without a
word of coming back in two days. Something
told him that he would not do that ; a
strange young feeling had come over him
with Mrs. Percival's letter ; in going to
Woolsborough, he was once more a schoolboy
going home.

Mrs. Percival received him more than
kindly  tenderly. A slight nervousness,
perhaps, made her more demonstrative than
usual : but Paul found no fault with the
affection she showed him. The Canon, too,
looking graver and older, said heartily how
glad he was to see him again. And the
strangest thing was, that the old, original,
homely feeling of the house had come back
to it ; the peace and freedom that used to be
there before Celia came, when Paul was a
schoolboy. He had half feared to find the
place haunted by Celia ; but perhaps it is
only real people with real feelings, not
counterfeits, who have the power of leaving
a strong impression of themselves behind.
Paul found that he could live in the rooms at
River Gate, could walk about the garden,
row on the river, ' wander in and out of the
Cathedral, linger among the quaint old shops

in the streets of the city, without meeting
Celia's ghost everywhere, unless he chose to
call it up for himself.

At first Mrs. Percival did not mention her
name, or go back to the past at all ; and
it was silently that Paul, looking about him
in the drawing-room, saw Colonel Ward's
beautiful old china and enamels arranged
here and there. The room was so full of
pretty things, that Paul's box from the East
seemed hardly to be wanted ; but when he
unpacked it and carried the things in, china,
pottery, brass and silver work, Turkish
embroidery, and so on, Mrs. Percival's rather
worn face reddened and lighted up with
pleasure.

You delightful boy !' she cried, coming
into the midst of the Oriental confusion that
Paul was spreading about the room. * Vincent
did not bring me anything like this from India.'

 By-the-bye,' said Paul, looking up into
her face as he laid a beautiful rug at her
feet, * where is Vincent ?'

In France, with the Montmirails/ said
Mrs. Percival, her happy smile fading.

Still !' said Paul.

What do you mean, my dear V

Paul straightened himself and answered
quietly :

Nothing ; only I heard of his being therein
May. I was at Tours, passing through,
and met M. de Montmirail.'

Did you really ? How curious !'

He told me Vincent was there then. He
suggested my going down too ; but I did not
quite see it. Vincent has been there all the
summer, then.'

No ; he was at home for about a month.
Then Celia wrote to him from Trouville ;
they were there. I don't think she asked

him to go exactly ; but anyhow, he went.
And now I believe he has gone back with
them into the country ; but Vincent does not
write often. I know he likes it very much,
though. He enjoys the life ; it amuses him,
and he never did care for Woolsborough.'

Paul said nothing.

I think Achille de Montmirail is a good
sort of man Mrs. Percival went on after a
moment.

I always liked him,' Paul said. ' And he
is not a bit changed. We knew each other
at once, the other day, and he was very
friendly.'

*Father stupidly so,' Mrs. Percival thought,
if he asked you to go there. The friendliness
is more to your credit than his, my dear
Paul. Now, how I should like to know the
true history of your and Celia's engagement
!'

But this was a question she could not ask,
and she took refuge in exclamations of delight
over the Eastern treasures, thinking all the
time what a goose Celia had been, what a
handsome, manly, simple, generous fellow
Paul was, and how happy any girl might have
been with him. It was better for Paul
though ; she confessed that to herself. Celia's
character could never have been a good match
for his, and her aunt suspected that it was
not improving with years. Presently, in the
midst of her admiration of Paul's spoils, she
said :

My dear boy, I can't let you waste all
these lovely things on me. They must befor
your house, for your wife. No ; I really
won't have them ; they shall be packed up
again. Just one or two of those brass things,
if you like ; their' shapes are too distracting.
It is most kind of you to have brought them

all to me ; but I can't be so selfish, Paul,
really.'

I shall never marry,' said Paul ; ' and they
will be much better here than at Ped Towers.
I shall often see them here, if you will let me
come.'

Never marry ! Nonsense ! Why not V
said Mrs. Percival.

Because I have lost my faith in women 
with a few exceptions,' he said, smiling a little.

You will find it again.'

Paul shook his head. In the days that
followed, while he went in and out, enjoying
himself in much the same fashion as when he
was a boy, renewing his old friendship with
Dr. Chanter, with the enthusiasm for music
which had long been laid aside, and in the
high air of the Cathedral regaining some of
the old happy trustfulness which used to be
his special charm in his young days ; through

this time Mrs. Percival, watching him closely
and wondering at him not a little, found it
almost impossible to allude to the painful
histories of the past. She was sorry enough
now for any share she had had in them, for
any scheming into which she might have
entered for Celia's sake. She might have
been called a worldly woman ; but she had a
heart, and she meant to be true to her friends.
Celia, she felt quite sure now, was both heartless
and false ; and that Vincent should be so
strongly attracted by her now, that he should
spend his whole time in attendance on the
Marquise, whose menage he had been so
curious to see, filled his mother's mind with
an anxiety she could not put into words, even
to her husband. She knew Vincent's nature
very well, and she felt, perhaps now doing a
little injustice, that Celia was capable of anything.


One day, when Paul was sitting with heron
the terrace after luncheon, and they had
been talking a little of Colonel Ward, she
said :

It was a very great shame that he left
Celia all that money. He told me he meant
to do it, poor dear, before we left England
that autumn ; but I thought, and so did he,
of course, that it was the same thing as leaving
it to you.'

Paul was silent for a few minutes, leaning
back, staring away at the river and the distant
hills.

There are few things that I am more
thankful for he said.

Paul,' said Mrs. Percival, * you are sometimes
beyond my understanding.'

Paul turned and looked at her, with a little
hardness in his smile.

Don't pretend to think that I am speaking

unselfishly,' he said. ' If that money had not

been left to Celia, she would never

Now I am a brute,' he said, colouring ; ' but
I mean this, you know : that the whole
arrangement was perfectly satisfactory tome.'


I never could make out ' murmured

Mrs. Percival.

Don't trouble yourself about it,' said Paul.
I couldn't explain, so let us drop the subject,
please.'

Yes, Mrs. Percival felt that it must be
dropped now and for ever ; the secret of that
misunderstanding between Paul and Celia
must always be a secret to her. She felt a
little awkward, and was glad that the footman
came out at that moment with some
letters. While Paul was gravely studying
an eloquent one from Mr. Cox, she had
opened the most interesting of her own, a

foreign one, and was reading it with a frown
of painful interest.

Where is the Canon V she exclaimed,
starting up ; and then she remembered that
he was gone out for the day. 'Dear me!
how am I to answer this V she said. ' What
a strange thing ! Shall I have to go ?'

Can I be of any use ? Where are you
going V said Paul, standing up, and putting
his own letter into his pocket.

To bring the girl back ! But what am I
to do with the girl ! Hasn't he relations of
his own ?' cried Mrs. Percival ; and then she
sat down aoain, and held the letter out to
Paul. ' I can't start off,' she said. ' I don't
want to go there, and the Canon won't go,
and I hate those long cross country journeys

alone. Besides Tell me, Paul, what

had I better do V

Am I to read this V said Paul.

Please ; I want your advice,' she said impatiently.


So Paul read the letter. It was from the
Marquis de Montmirail, written in rather involved
English ; he was very fond both of
talking and writing English. It was a pressing
invitation to Canon and Mrs. Percival to
go at once on a visit to La Tour Blanche.
They knew it would be a still greater pleasure
to Celia, if possible, than to him. If the
Canon found himself too much engaged,
would Mrs. Percival come alone ? He went
on to say that there was some question
of a marriage for his daughter Antoinette.
Nothing was finally settled yet, and he wished
her first to pay a visit to his relations and
friends in England. Would Mrs. Percival
have the kindness to take charge of her on the
journey ? ' Do not refuse me the favour of
this visit, dear madame. Since I have lost

my mother-in-law, the Vicomtesse de Ferrand,
the charming person you remember, 1
have not had any friend to whom I could
address myself as now to you. Pray return
me a good answer to this request, which I
should only make to a person in whom I had
great confidence '

He wants a safe escort for his daughter,
and he wants to send her away to England ;
and his wife does not concern herself much in
the matter. That is how I read his letter,
poor thing !' said Mrs. Percival.

She was smiling, but there was a great
shadow of anxiety in the background.

It does look rather like that said Paul.
 Wouldn't it be a good thing if you could go V

But the Canon won't  and really I'm
afraid  and without a line from Celia  not
even a message !'

You need not be afraid,' said Paul. ' I

VOL. III. 48

could go with you  as far as Tours. I could
see you off from Tours. Vincent is there,
and there cannot be much doubt that Celia
will be glad to see you.'

Thank you, dear,' said Mrs. Percival,
gazing at him, and speaking rather absently.
As to being afraid, I did not quite mean
the journey, perhaps  Timms and I are old
travellers enough for that. But of course it
will make all the difference if you will go with
fine  to Tours, I mean. But I must talk to
the Canon. When can we start ? Dear me, I
must write some notes. You won't mind my
going in, Paul ; this is really overwhelming.'
She went in at the windows smiling sweetly
at the young man as she left him on the terrace,
from which he soon disappeared, going
down to the ferry and crossing the river for a
walk in the fields beyond.

Mrs. Percival did not write notes, but sat

down with Achille's letter, and studied it till
her head ached and her bright eyes were
clouded : she felt sure that there was something'
wrong. He wanted to send his young
daughter to England, out of the way of something.
He wanted Celia's relations to see
for themselves, perhaps  and yet Mrs. Percival
felt that all this had sprung out of her
own imagination. If there was anything odd
in Achille's writing himself, it could be easily
explained. Celia was busy, or lazy, or amused ;
and he was a fidgety, anxious father ; perhaps
poor Antoinette was rebellious, and did not
like the marriage suggested for her. After
all, that was very likely. Achille would be
terribly puzzled what to do with an obstinate
girl, whose stepmother probably wanted her
married as soon as possible. Poor little Antoinette
! No doubt she was at the bottom
of it all.

482

RED TOWERS

Yet beyond this there was a fear, a shadow,
which weighed Mrs. Percival's spirits down.
There were two people, nearest to her in
blood, in whom she felt she could trust nothing
but their selfishness. And a mother can love
her son in spite of this ; but an aunt, to her
niece, is not quite so indulgent.

Roche's bonbons.

Dr. Chanter, the old musician, was in the
habit of talking to Paul Pomaine as if he
was still a boy, and his pupil.

So you are going to France with Mrs.
Percival T he said to him. ' Come back
again soon, and bring the Captain back with
you. He's spending too much of his leave
in foreign parts  flirting with that pretty,
conceited cousin of his  a married woman,
too. T don't approve of her.'

'What do you know of Madame de ,
Dr. Chanter V said Paul.

I know she is not musical,' said the organist
; * and I hear what people say.'

Let them say,' said Paul, half to himself;
he could not enter into an argument in defence
of Celia.

Their engagement was a very old story
now, and it had been publicly known in
Woolsborough for such a short time, that
Dr. Chanter, wrapped up in his art, had
almost forgotten it.

Mrs. Percival's spirits improved, and she
began to think that her first visit to La
Tour Blanche might be rather amusing, after
all. She had a letter from Celia, expressing
pleasure at her coming ; and this seemed to
set her mind at ease, though it was not more
satisfying than Celia's letters generally.

As to Paul, he had plans of his own for
the employment of his time after leaving
Mrs. Percival at Tours. He did not mean

to go back at once to England ; he had seen
enough of that French west country to feel
its charm, and he liked the notion of September
days spent among old chateaux with
their legends and stories, or ruined abbeys,
lonely and half forgotten among silent woods
and marshy ways. Joanne's ' Guide to the
Loire,' which he studied rather too hard to
please Mrs. Percival, told him of many
strange and picturesque places with a pathetic
interest of their own, from the contrast of
past splendour and present desolation. He
might be drawn on into Brittany  he did not
know ; but there one comes upon the broad
track of English tourists ; and he felt more
inclined to linger a little east of all that  in
Anjou, Touraine, Maine.

They travelled down from Paris early in
the day, leaving the main line at Tours,
where Paul saw Mrs. Percival off by an

afternoon train to Saint-Bernard. He then
went to his old hotel, where he was remembered,
and received with smiles. A funny
little boy belonging to the house, with a long
pinafore and a dark downy head, welcomed
him with a joy that touched Paul's heart.
The day had been tiring, hot, and dusty ; he
was lonely. Though of course he could not
have gone on with Mrs. Percival to La Tour
Blanche, and would have refused any invitation
of the kind, it was impossible not to feel
a little left out. That Mrs. Percival, for
whom all his old affection had come back,
and Celia, his old love, and Achille de ,
with whom he had been so friendly 
that these people should be together now, as
of old, and that at this moment an impassable
gulf should lie between him and them  the
thought made Paul sad. He let Christophe,
the little French boy, come up into his room,

and listened to his confidences. Paul's
French was not great, but he and Christophe
understood each other.

It was an old promise that Christophe
was to go to England some day, when his
mother could spare him. This promise Paul
was not allowed to forget ; he had, in fact, to
make it over and over again, for the child, ashe
Qfrew older, dtcw more eao-er and curious.
Then  it was very sad  but since monsieur
was there before, nobody, not one single person,
had given Christophe any bonbons.

The end of this was that Paul strolled out
into the pretty white streets of Tours, taking
the little boy with him. His hand was
seized, and he was pulled along. Fate, one
must imagine, had taken up her abode in the
small frame of that child. He was quite
clever enough to know where to go for bonbons,
especially when he was leading a rich

and generous Englishman. The shadows
were lengthening in the street; but Tours
was still bathed in clear, hot, serene, almost
Eastern sunshine, as the strange pair hurried
along, Christophe much stared at by other
little boys, some of whom turned and followed.
He, or Fate in his person, dragged
Paul as far as Roche's shop  absolutely in
at the door. Then, looking round, he began
to smile ; then stuffed his little hands deep
in his pockets, and gazed at Paul. It was
more polite and more politic, he thought, to
leave the Englishman to his own devices
now.

There were other people in the shop, and
the two smiling shop women were much engaged
in attending on two of them, who
were at the further counter with their backs
to Paul, choosing a variety of wonderful
bonbons. At the first moment, Paul did not

particularly notice these people ; his eyes
were more attracted by a girl who was standing
in the middle of the shop, looking with
dark, soft, wistful eyes straight out of the
door. Roche's dainties were nothing at all
to her, it seemed. The face was very young :
soft, round, delicate, dark, or rather tinted
like cream. The pretty features were not
made for sadness, but she looked sad ; the
red lips ought to have been smiling, but they
were set a little sternly, as if to keep back
tears. There she stood and waited, her
hands folded over the handle of her parasol.
There was nothing theatrical about her ; nothing
even dreamy or self-occupied. She
glanced at Paul when he came in, and then
at little Christophe ; then her head turned
very slightly towards the people she was
waiting for ; then her eyes travelled out of
the door again, but just caught a second and

more curious glance from Paul on the way.
Though he did not know who she was, it
flashed across him that he had seen her
before.

'Was it lono;- aofo ?' he asked himself: was
it in his travels ? Where, when, could it
have been ? And how could the charm of a
face so lovely and so interesting have faded
from his memory ?

Immediately on these thoughts  driving
them away for the moment  came the voice
of the man at the other side of the shop.
He was standing, leaning over a lady who sat
at the counter.

You can't resist that big one !' he said in
English.

And why should I ? Do I ever resist
anything that's good V she answered, laughing
; and her voice, one need hardly say,
seized Paul even more than the girl's face ;

for it was Celia's voice  sweet, high-pitched,
deliberate as of old.

That large, handsomely - dressed woman
playing with the bonbons was Celia, and the
man beside her was, of course, Vincent Percival.
Paul's first instinct was to rush out of
the shop ; but at that moment Madame de
Montmirail turned round.

Antoinette, why don't you come here V
she began ; and then her eyes fell on Paul,
and she stopped short.

She touched Vincent's arm, to make him look
round too ; the girl turned towards her, and
in an instant Paul found himself the centre of
all these eyes  startled, unfriendly, indifferent.
There was no escape for him : he walked upto
Celia, who was holding out her hand.

 Now, was it not very clever of me to
know you again V she exclaimed. ' I don't
believe you would ever have known me !'

Yes, I should have known you anywhere
said Paul ; and then he casually shook hands
with Vincent, who stared at him for a
moment, and turned away.

What has brought you here ? Did you
come down with Aunt Flo ? Where is she ?
At the hotel ? We came in to meet her,'
said Celia calmly.  Gone on to Saint-bernard
! but why ? How tiresome ! Did
not she get my note V

I heard nothing of it'

I wrote to the Deux Freres. I said we
should be in Tours to-day, and would join
her at the station in the evening. Vincent,
do you hear ? Your mother did not get my
note.'

How was that ? You wrote to her pet
hotel, didn't you?' said Vincent, lounging
back.

Of course. She never goes anywhere

else in Paris. She said she meant to stay
in Paris last night. Were you with her ?
Didn't she go to the Deux Freres ?' said
Celia to Paul.

Paul felt himself colouring a little, and
hardly able to meet the cool question of her
blue eyes. The associations of the Deux
Freres for him were still so keen, so painful,
that he had objected when Mrs. Percival
proposed going there, and had suggested
another hotel nearer the station. She had
given in amiably, with a suspicion of what
his thoughts might be. It was bad enough
to be in Paris at all, where those last weeks,
nearly five years ago, had been spent with
Celia.

No,' said Paul quietly, mentioning their
hotel. She evidently had forgotten everything.


Imagine,' she said, ' Aunt Flo trusting

herself to anybody but dear old M. Dupont.
But the tiresome part of the business is, that
there will be nobody to meet her at Saint-bernard.
Well, it can't be helped. Are
you fond of bonbons ? Do you know that
this is one of the best shops in the world V

The things look uncommonly good,' said
Paul. He glanced round, but his eyes soon
came back to her again.

She amazed him ; he felt more thoroughly
critical than ever in his life before. She was
very handsome, of course ; but she had entirely,
irretrievably lost her charm. Was it
that he knew better, or that she was utterly
changed ? He did not know. Hard, heartless,
material, self-indulgent, she repelled
Paul now, as he stood looking at her in
Roche's shop, as much as she had attracted
him in the old days. This Celia ! No,
Celia was dead. She had died long ago.

Or had she never lived at all ? She used to
say sometimes that she cared for nothing but
the present ; that the past was gone, and the
future mioht never come ; what was the use
of tormenting one's self about them ? Paul
had never liked to hear her say that, though
the present had charms enough for him then.
But now he saw that it was simply the expression
of the woman's natural character ;
and he looked at her curiously, sadly, as we
look at our lost ideals, wondering at our own
extraordinary blindness. After all, experiences
like Paul's have given the world half
its poetry.

Let me introduce you to my stepdaughter,
Mademoiselle de Montmirail,' said
the Marquise, coming forward smilingly.
Antoinette, you have heard your father
speak of Mr. Pomaine.'

Paul and Antoinette made low bows to
VOL. III. 49

each other. The girl's sad, proud look relaxed
a little, and she smiled.

'Yes, indeed,' she said.

Wait a minute for me. I must finish
my shopping, and then we will all go and
dine together at the hotel  shall we V said
Celia pleasantly.

As she moved back to the counter, Vincent,
who had been looking on rather discontentedly,
moved back to her side ; and Paul,
standing near Antoinette, asked her a few
questions about her father, which she
answered, he thought, sadly.

He could not understand the girl's look ;
it was naturally such a happy face, he was
sure, and now there was a look in her eyes
that he could almost have called fright, if it
had not been contradicted by the proud, fearless
lines of her high-bred profile. But it
was plain that she felt safe in talking to him.

looking up into the dark friendly face with
an ahiiost childish confidence.

As Paul talked to her, he remembered
suddenly that the Marquis in his letter had
mentioned something of a marriage for this
girl.

She hates it, and they are driving her
into it,' he said to himself ' Of course  she
wants to get rid of her ; no doubt she is in
the way.'

And as these thoughts flashed through his
brain he read whole tragedies in Antoinette's
sweet eyes.

Presently they all left the shop together,
Paul submitting to his fate and walking on
first with Madame de Montmirail. She
smiled on him with a cool graciousness which
astonished hiui less every minute ; he felt
that very soon he should be able to meet her
quite successfully on her own ground.

492

And little Christophe was left behind, forgotten.
He had watched Paul and his
acquaintances with a face that lengthened
every moment, and now, finding himself forsaken
 no bonbons for him, after all his
hopes and exertions  he followed the party
out of the shop, trying in vain to choke
down sobs of bitter disappointment.

But Antoinette noticed him ; she had
seen him come into the shop hand-in-hand
with Paul Romaine. Her hand was on his
shoulder, and with a few little comforting
words she found out the state of the case.
Then she actually lingered behind her companions
to buy him a lovely box full of
bonbons, so that he ran away home happy ;
perhaps moralizing that French ladies were
more amiable than English gentlemen after
all.

When Antoinette came to the shop-door



after committing this indiscretion, she found
Vincent waiting for her, looking very cross.

I am afraid you must condescend to
walk with me as far as the hotel,' he said.
Madame la Marquise is better employed
than in thinking about us.'

Oh I I did not know I had been so honos
said Antoinette, a little dismayed that she
could not see Celia.

Is it a habit of yours, buying Roche's
bonbons for every little boy in the street ?
One way of being popular.'

Antoinette did not explain what she had
done. She could be haughty enough when
she chose, and she hardly spoke as she
walked with her unpleasant escort to the
hotel.

They all dined together at the hotel, as
Celia proposed, in rather a hurried fashion ;
and in spite of her unpromising materials,

she succeeded in making it a pleasant party.
She looked and smiled Vincent out of his
sullenness ; she talked a great deal of nonsense
to Paul, who could not marvel at her
sufficiently, but found it easy, following her
lead, to talk and laugh with her, though he
rather despised himself all the time for being
where he was.

The most silent person of the party was
Antoinette; but French girls are not expected
to talk much. Paul caught himself
watching her, and feeling a little anxiety
about her good opinion ; he wondered whether
she, as a child, had known of his engagement
to Celia.

Immediately after dinner, in the warm
shady courtyard of the hotel, with Christophe
peeping through a doorway, still rather
grieved that his friend had forgotten him,
but looking forward to triumph when the

other people were gone, Vincent Percival
suggested that it was nearly time to go to
the station. He spoke to his cousin in the
old autocratic manner which used to enrage
Paul at River Gate. Surely Celia knew
better now than to like such a fellow, Paul
thought, looking from one to the other of
them. Why did she let him go about with
her ? And then Paul said to himself that
Celia and her ways were unaccountable.
Safe in her present position, perhaps, from
all danger of scrapes, she felt free to treat
her old lovers as she pleased ; and her
manner to Vincent was that of extreme intimacy,
the intimacy that admits of quarrels.
Paul thought that if Celia had been his wife,
he would not have cared to have a fellow
like Vincent always dangling after her, a
fellow who evidently had the privilege, and
made use of it, of saying anything he pleased.

She snubbed him a Httle sometimes, however.


The station  Oh, no hurry,' she said ; and
then she turned her back upon him, and
looked Paul straight in the face. ' You are
coming with us,' she said.

It was the manner of a woman entirely
accustomed to have her own way. Why she
wanted him, Paul could not conceive ; but he
knew Celia well enough to be sure that she
was in earnest. He could not help glancing
at Vincent, whose face was a study of scowling
surprise, and this made him half inclined
to accept the invitation. But then, Madame
de Montmirail must not imagine that she
still had any power over him. He was not
going to be among the captives led at her
chariot wheel. lie was capable, with his
larger experience, of judging his old love very
hardly now. She struck him at that moment

as a woman who only kept within the bounds
of propriety because it suited her. He could
not have given any exact reason for such an
impression as this ; but it was there.

Thank you ; that is quite impossible. I
have made a lot of plans ' he was beginning,
when suddenly his eyes met Antoinette's,
and he was startled into silence by
her look of intense disappointment.

No change in his face betrayed that he
had seen it, as he listened with the necessary
politeness to Madame de Montmirail.

I won't hear anything about your plans ;
you had no business to make any when you
were coming down here. M. de Montmirail
was very much vexed when he met you here
a few months ago that you would not come
to us then ; you were in such a hurry to go
back to England. Now you must come. It
won't be dull ; there is a shooting-party tomorrow,

to begin with, and I know you will
appreciate that more than Vincent does.
Now do you see what is your duty 1 Achille
will be terribly disappointed if we leave you
here. Won't he, Antoinette ? He always
talks of you as a model Englishman.'

Paul laughed, and bowed.

Do come, monsieur ; my father will be so
very glad to see you T said Antoinette.

Her own troubles seemed to be forgotten
for the moment, and her face had its own
young, sweet, happy look. Paul dared to
fancy that she was expressing her own wish,
as well as her father's. Something of the
old feeling of days gone by came back to him
days before he had discovered the falseness
of human nature. He afterwards told
himself that Mademoiselle de Montmirail,
very naturally and rightly, disliked her two
companions and their manner to each other.

That, of course, was the reason why she
wished to add him to the party. Well  Mrs.
Percival, he knew, would be glad  he believed
that the Marquis would not be sorry
to see him. So Celia had her own way once
again, and triumphed serenely ; though, if
she had only known, it was Antoinette's way,
not hers.

What on earth did you ask him for V
grumbled Vincent at the station, when Paul
was getting his ticket.

T couldn't help it, could I ? I thought it
would please Aunt Flo.'

Don't tell me that.'

I never for a moment thought he would
come.'

Not if you asked him 1 Only too glad of
the chance. What did he sneak down here
for ? My mother could have travelled perfectly
well alone. It will be quite grind

enough for you to have to amuse her, without
that dear boy into the bargain.'

Hush, Vincent ! Don't be a dog in the
manger.'

T will if I choose.'

M. DE CERNAY.

Mrs. Percival was not without an adventure
in her short journey between Tours and
Saint-Bernard.

At the second station from Tours, a
Frenchman, small, ugly, and agreeable, got
into the carriage, and after one or two covert
glances, begged very politely to recall himself
to her memory. Mrs. Percival thought
at first he must be mistaken, for she had
quite forgotten him, and was sure that she
knew no one in that part of the country,
except the Marquis de Montmirail. At the

same time, the name of De Cernay did not
seem quite unknown to her.

Our poor Montmirail has mentioned my
name to you, no doubt, madame,' said M. de
Cernay ; and he went on to remind her of a
certain evening in Paris, when she and her
niece had dined with Madame de Ferrand, at
the Hotel Sainte-mosque. ' My first sight
of your beautiful niece  I am not likely to
forget it  or the effect of that evening on my
friend Achille. If one could know the future
  however, madame, I well remember the
impression that those two English ladies
made on me.'

Oh yes, I remember,' said Mrs. Percival.
She could not be complimentary enough to
tell the little Baron that she remembered
him, for in fact his presence had made no
impression at all on her. But that evening,
the evening when Paul had come back from



England with the news of Colonel Ward's
death, the evening that had brought all to
an end between him and Celia  she did not
need much reminding of that.

How charming Madame de Ferrand had
been ! What a loss she was to her family !
This was a little subject which occupied the
next few minutes agreeably enough. Then
she told M. de Cernay that she was on her
way to La Tour Blanche.

To pay my first visit,' she said. * They
have often most kindly asked me, but I have
never succeeded in getting there yet.'

And now, madame,' said M. de Cernay,
throwing up his hands in a sort of rapture,
you are coming like an angel from heaven.'

Mrs. Percival opened her pretty brown
eyes at this very French way of putting
things.

Oh no, monsieur,' she said, smiling, ' I

have no pretension to be like anyone of that
kind.'

I am not exaggerating, I am not talking
nonsense,' said M. de Cernay, shaking his
head. ' The visit of an anoel  what is it
supposed to bring ? Peace, kindness, truth
in fact, a great many charming things that
find themselves pushed aside sometimes in
this thoughtless world of ours. Pardon me,
madame, if I am hinting more than I ought,'
said the Baron, with a bow and a shrug.
But I consider myself Achilles de 's
best friend  he might not give me
the title, perhaps, in these days  and the
Marquise, who could fail to admire anyone

so beautiful, and so clever ! Mais ' he

ended his speech with a long-drawn sigh,
lifted eyebrows, and a greater shrug still.

A cold shiver crept over Mrs. Percival as
she listened, and looked at him, for he gave

>



her the impression of speaking quite honestly.
Now she thought of Achille's letter, and all
the little fears she had almost forgotten.

I do not understand ' she beo-an

nervously.

Of course you do not ; how should you,
dear madame V cried M. de Cernay. ' I am
making mischief  alas, my wife tells me that
I can never hold my tongue ! And you
really had no idea that there was anything
wrong at La Tour Blanche ? Well, I see
now that we need not distress ourselves.
Your visit, as I say, is an angel's visit ;
everything will go right. Your advice will
have the best effect in the world. Perhaps
Achille has been a little fanciful. Mon Dieu,
believe me, I know hundreds of men in
France who are far less fortunate than he is,
and who do not complain  simply let things
go their own way. But he is sensitive, my

VOL. III. 50

poor Achille. He has a devotion, you see.
The object is, perhaps, a little disappointing,
and he is very much hurt  too much ; he
had better take things cheerfully, like a
philosopher  because, after all, it is nothing

 But what is it V said Mrs. Percival.
You mean to say that they are not quite
happy  he and his wife  my niece V

Not quite happy,' repeated M. de Cernay.
And what a pity it is ! No one can see
anything unnatural in Madame de Montis
great friendship for her cousin, though

for my part But tastes differ. I assure

you, as I said just now, many ladies in France
allow themselves quite as much liberty, and
a great deal more. It is no doubt the well-known
character of Englishwomen which
causes surprise .in this case. People are
sorry for Achille, pauvre jargon ; he is sensitive,
as I say. And he has been so very

fond of his wife ; she has ruled him completely.
All these things are unfortunate.'

Mrs. Percival flushed crimson, and looked
out of the window ; she was utterly horrified.
M. de Cernay did not of course know that
Vincent was her son, and she could not tell
him.

But you must remember,' she said, after
a moment  ' they are cousins, and old friends,
very intimate friends.'

Certainly, no doubt,' cried M. de Cernay.
But even more than friends, madame,
though possibly you did not know it. M. le
Capitaine made a little confession to my
wife, I may tell you. And then, since that,
we have all been at Trouville together.'

For a few minutes Mrs. Percival sat perfectly
silent. She was reflecting that
Achille's letter had indeed brought her into a
frightful hornets' nest, wondering how she

502

could possibly cope with Celia  whether she
had authority enough over Vincent to send
him away at once. On the whole, she did
not feel afraid. It was a terribly disagreeable
business, but she had her share of goodness
and courage, as well as of the dignity that
was wanted in a matter like this. In her
prettiest and most foolish days, the most
scandalous tongues had never been able to
breathe a word against her.

M. de Cernay watched her with interest as
she sat there thinking. He and his wife had
been boiling with indignation for some weeks
past, against the odious woman who was so
evidently making his friend Achille unhappy.
They were still more furious, because it was
impossible to say a word of advice or
sympathy to Achille himself A whole
family appeared to be going to the dogs,
without a hand being put out to save them.

But here was this excellent aunt, coming at
last to the rescue. She, being English, would
know how to manage both the Marquise and
her beast of a cousin. Her visit was indeed
that of an anofel ; the Baron felt that there
was no exaggeration in saying so.

Poor Mrs. Percival, her mind quite occupied
in rising to the occasion, was not at all
aware of the deep respect and admiration
with which M. de Cernay was regarding her.

As a rule, he disliked the English as cordially
as his friend Achille liked them ; but
this Englishwoman, though cold and indifferent
after the manner of her nation, inspired
him with confidence and hope. He listened
with interest when she began to speak
aoain.

And about his daughter she said ; * there
is some question of her marriage, is there
not?'

Well, poor child, we hardly know whether
it will come to anything,' said M. de Cernay,
with a shrug. ' When we were at Trouville
it suddenly occurred to Achille, it seems tome,
that he might as well get rid of his
daughter. He said a word to my wife on
the subject, and she brought forward a distant
cousin of hers, a good sort of young
fellow, not handsome, not particularly rich ;
but then Mdlle. Antoinette's dot is far from
enormous. This young Jules of ours had
seen her photograph, however, and admired
it, as everybody must. He was willing
enough  is so still, though we soon found
that there was an obstacle. Mdlle. Antoinette
sets herself violently against marrying
at all, and says she would rather go into a
convent, though she certainly has no vocation.
She has always been such a good daughter 
except in one instance, years ago, when she

M. DE CERNAY 151

prevented her father marrying a charming
person we had all chosen for him  that I
am surprised at her giving him this extra
trouble now. The convent is all nonsense ;
she does not wish to leave him ; but she had
much better leave him  and in fact I have
reason to believe that he thinks of sending
her to his cousins in England

Yes said Mrs. Percival ; ' he has an idea
that she will travel back with me.'

Madame, you give me excellent news
said the smiling Baron. ' I shall tell mv
wife that we may now be happy about
Antoinette ; she has been a sad element in
the situation, to our minds. When she
comes back everything will be better, and
in the end her marriage %vill come off successfully.'


She is very pretty, is she not ?' said Mrs.
Percival.

 Charmingly pretty ! A most picturesque
contrast to her stepmother, you know ; but
you have seen them together V

Some time ago. Not since Antoinette
was grown up.'

Ah ! it is hard to remember that she is
grown up. Her beauty will always be the
beauty of a noble, innocent child. No bad
example will ever do harm to Antoinette 
though it is impossible to tell her father so 
she walks like a star through this wicked
world.'

M. de Cernay sighed and checked himself.
After all, in one's most poetical moments it
was necessary to remember that one was
talking to the aunt of the bad example herself.


By the time the train reached Saint-bernard,
Mrs. Percival was well prepared
for all and any discoveries that might be

waiting for her at the Chateau de la Tour
Blanche.

Certainly the wish crossed her mind that
she could go travelling on to the north, and
at last reach the sea and cross it again to old
England, and find herself once more, peaceful
and artistic, in her drawing-room at River
Gate.

It certainly seemed that married people
ought to manage their affairs for themselves,
and that she could not be held responsible
for the good conduct of Celia. Bat Vincent
was her son, and she thought she had some
influence over him. Besides, she had been
invited both by the Marquis and by Celia.
In short, it was a great deal too late to turn
back now.

She was a good deal vexed and astonished
that nobody, not even a carriage, met her at
Saint-Bernard station ; but she bore it more

calmly than Timms, who was weighed down
with the anxiety of luggage, and who proclaimed
loudly that this was the most outlandish
part of France she had ever been in.
M. de Cernay was full of kindness and attention.
He bustled about, got hold of the
chef de gave, and heard from him the startling
news that Madame de Montmirail, with Mademoiselle
and the English gentleman, had
gone to Tours by the morning train, and had
not yet come back. A conveyance for Mrs.
Percival was a difficulty ; nobody at Saint-bernard
either wanted or possessed a fiacre.
To be sure, they had a little carriage at the
Boule door.

'The carriage of M. le Baron is waiting
outside,' suggested the chef de gave, with his
head on one side, .and an agreeable smile.

Precisely ! The large carriage ! But
what a fortunate miracle T cried M. de

Cernay ; and Mrs. Percival soon found that
the whole thing was decided.

She and her maid and her luggage were
to be sent in the Baron's carriage to La Tour
Blanche, and he himself would walk home.
Three steps  through two streets,' he
earnestly assured her ; and he would hear of
no remonstrance. ' Madame,' he said, with
a low bow, ' it is not every day that one can
facilitate the journey of an angel.'

The chef de gave, looking on, thought at
first that such language as this would displease
Madame la Baronne. But then he
thought that perhaps the strange lady was
too old to be dangerous ; and he put it down
to M. de Gernay's well-known eccentricity.

'We have a shooting party at La Tour
Blanche tomorrow. Au plaisir de vous revoir,
madame,' said M. de Cernay at the
carriage-door, in farewell.

In happier days Mrs. Percival would have
enjoyed the golden twilight of that evening,
the charming, unfamiliar country ; but as it
was, while M. de Cernay's horses whirled her
quickly through the picturesque lanes, she
was too much occupied with her own thoughts
to notice anything. She wondered, now, that
she had not had presence of mind enough to
insist on waiting at the station till the party
came back from Tours. Probably they had
gone there with the idea of meeting her, and
of course the carriage had been ordered to
meet a later train. That kind M. de Cernay
had been too fussy ; he had not given her
time to think of these things ; the chatter of
French was a little confusing, though she
spoke and understood it well. The farther
she got from the station, the more she began
to shrink from meeting Achille de Montmirail,
alone. He certainly must have some cause

to be angry with his wife, and perhaps with
Vincent. Mrs. Percival did not believe,
from her old knowledge of Celia, that she
would do anything really imprudent, or
dangerous ; but there is no smoke without
fire ; and Celia might very well have shown
a cool disregard for her husband's feelings.
As for Vincent, it was quite possible that he
had been very foolish indeed. Confession to
Madame de Cernay I that was incomprehensible,
and sounded as if he had indeed taken
leave of his senses.

Mrs. Percival awoke from these puzzling
thoughts to find herself driving down an
irregular village street, with lights flashing
among trees. The moon had risen, and all
the landscape, the straggling gardens, white
walls, lines of poplars, were lit up with a
faint, magical glow, a struggle of sunset and
moonrise, from which the colour was gradually

dying as silver conquered gold. Mrs.
Percival had hardly time to think  ' Can we
be there already V  when the carriage turned
into the avenue, flashing past the white
balustrade of a bridge. A few yards farther,
somebody on foot spoke to the coachman,
and the carriage stopped.

A ray of moonlight fell through the
branches on Achille de Montmirail's fair
head, as he came up to the door.

My dear aunt, what has happened to
you V said the kind, familiar voice in English.
You missed the young people, then ? They
went to Tours this morning on purpose to
meet you.'

'Yes, I must have missed them,' said Mrs.
Percival hastily. ' But I had no idea they
were coming.'

No idea ! Celia wrote to Paris.'

To Paris !'

Certainly  to the Deux Freres. She
felt sure you would pass the night nowhere
else.'

Oh ! Well, we did not go there, so that
explains it,' said Mrs. Percival. ' I travelled
just now with your friend M. de Cernay, and
he most kindly sent me here in his carriage,
as you see.'

Ah  yes, yes !' said the Marquis. ' I
hope you may find my house as well prepared
as his carriage. Drive on,' he said to
the coachman, and was instantly left behind
in the avenue by the impatient horses.

Mrs. Percival felt as if she was dreaming,
and never afterwards could look back on
that evenings  and the next  without the
same strange feeling that it was all a dream,
and that in real life she had never seen
Achille de Montmirail since certain agreeable
days in Paris  long ago, they seemed  when

he and Celia were staying with Madame de
Ferrand, and she was at her favourite hotel
opposite. Perhaps this unreal feeling was
caused by Achille's own manner, removing
at once, she felt, any fears of a painful or
sensational visit ; but still, somehow, not
quite natural. She understood it better afterwards,
but never entirely. Then the unreal
effect was heightened by the strange light in
which she got out of the carriage  a light
'neither clear nor dark '  the great old chateau
towering dimly, the ivied walls, the broad
terrace across which forms of dogs, quite
oddly familiar, came with wags of recognition
; servants hurrying out in great surprise,
the horses' bells jingling, and in the background
a great silence and stillness of slowly-brightening
moonlight, across which an owl
floated with his melancholy cry, while the
Marquis came striding up from the avenue,

gave her his arm, and took her into the
house, into the great beautiful shining salon,
diraly lighted with one lamp that only made
the shadows darker.

How lovely ! What an exquisite room !'
cried Mrs. Percival.

You can't see it ; they will light it up for
you presently. Celia will be glad if you like
it ; she always talks of your taste. But this
is terrible  only myself to receive you after
such a journey. How did you leave the
Canon ? and how did you manage your
journey? Sit down, ma tante ; I think you
will like that chair.'

Mrs. Percival sat down and answered his
questions, feeling all the time as if she hardly
knew what she was saying. She could not
see his face well ; but it seemed to her that
he looked a good deal older  quite his age
now. A handsome, distinguished-looking

VOL. III. 51

man still ; but thinner, browner, graver, than
she remembered him. What struck her most
was a sort of dignity, unconscious, unintentional,
which made her feel that she could
ask him no questions, and that he would tell
her nothing. She felt quite sure that he had
not complained of his wife, or of anyone else,
to M. de Cernay.

She told him how Paul Romaine had escorted
her to Tours, and then was sorry, for
he said once or twice rather gravely :

I wish he had come here ! Why should
he not come here ? I should like to see him

adam.

Mrs. Percival tried to explain that Paul
was bent on visiting various old towns and
castles.

They will stand for some years yet,' said
the Marquis.

Presently Suzanne appeared, and offered

to take madame to her room. Then came
dinner, at which the Marquis talked almost
entirely about England and his old friends
there. He did not think he should ever be
in England again, he said. But he was
anxious that his daughter should see it, and
he asked rather earnestly if Mrs. Percival
was sure that she could take her back.

My reasons are too many to explain,' he
said.

I don't want any reasons,' said Mrs. Percival.
' I shall be only too glad to have her.
You said there was some idea of her being
married '

Ah  I will not have her tormented about
that,' he said quickly ' She shall go to
England, and after that she shall do as she
pleases. You will kindly remember that, ma
tante' he said, leaning towards her with an
odd sort of intensity in the expression of his

512

eyes. * I will not cause Antoinette any unhappiness
; I have done quite enough in that
way. This marriage is only an idea. It is
at present disagreeable to her, and she shall
not be reminded of it till she comes back to
France, if then.'

I will not remind her of it, certainly,' said
Mrs. Percival. ' But as to your causing unhappiness
to anyone, my dear Achille, I
should say that your whole life had been
spent in doing the contrary.'

The old sweet smile that she remembered
lit up his face for a moment.

You flatter me, as I used once to flatter
myself, 'he said. ' But after all, we do not
always know when we are selfish. Have you
taken any notice of your old friend Di ?
Here she is, looking at you.'

After dinner the Marquis amused Mrs.
Percival by showing her the beauties of the

salon, now brilliantly lighted. Then they
went out into the glorious moonlight, and
walked up and down on the terrace with the
dogs, talking of all sorts of indifferent subjects.
He talked agreeably, though perhaps
more gravely than in old days. Now and
then he mentioned Celia s name, quite simples
and as a matter of course. Mrs. Percival
could detect no sign of the sensitiveness M.
de Cernay had mentioned, though she believed
that it might be there ; for whatever
this talk might be, he certainly did not look
happy ; the boyish, light-hearted cheerfulness
that she remembered had disappeared utterly.
As she walked up and down with him, to the
curiously dreamy feeling of the evening was
added a feeling of utter helplessness ; a feeling
that some catastrophe was coming ; that
she ought to stop it, but could not. It was
like a nightmare to be alone with this man

and her anxiety, in the silence of such a
night, down in this country unknown to her.
She secretly resolved  why she did not
know, for Achille was perfectly kind and
pleasant  that she would never go anywhere
again, so far from home, without the Canon's
solid earthly presence to take care of her.

I hear the carriage ; they are coming
now,' said Achille at last ; and then Mrs.
Percival spoke in sudden desperation :

I am afraid Vincent has been paying you
much too long a visit, my dear Marquis,' she
said.

There was no change in Achille's look or
manner, except that his face had been turned
towards the avenue, and that now he turned
again to her with a slight bow, and a courteous
little movement of his hand.

1 am orlad he finds France amusing. I
like England very much,' he said ; and Mrs.

Percival could say no more. The great
carriage, with four people in it, appeared at
that moment out of the darkness of the
avenue.

ANTOINETTE.

Madame de Montmirail was of course the
ruling spirit at La Tour Blanche ; that was
only natural. But her aunt, whom she
met with a great appearance of cordiality,
was not quite prepared for the way in which
she used her power. As to scolding Celia,
or remonstrating with her at all seriously,
that had been a difficulty even in her young
days ; now it was totally out of the question,
and obedience to Celia, more or less slavish,
seemed to be a necessity.

The Marquise decided that her aunt must

be very tired, and carried her off to her
room very early. Mrs. Percival was tired,
but she was not in the least sleepy, and felt
a little unwilling to leave the people downstairs,
each of whom interested her separately.


Antoinette, it was true, had already disappeared.
Vincent, flung at full length in
the most comfortable chair, was reading the
Figaro. The Marquis had gone outside the
window in the moonlight, with his unexpected
guest, Paul Romaine, to whom he had
given a hearty welcome. Mrs. Percival felt
vaguely as if she was looking on at a play.

Now she sat down in her rather gloomy
tapestried bedroom, and watched Celia as
she moved about, with a kind of idle stateliness
which was very becoming ; it had grown
upon her of late years.

She was a beautiful woman, though she

had lost the charm of youth ; she had grown
out of her aunt's knowledge in a way not to
be measured by years. Yet Mrs. Percival,
being constant and soft-hearted, looked at
her with linoerino admiration, almost affection.
She would have liked to speak to her
openly, if she could have hoped for any
sincerity, or even softness, in return. But
she knew too well that Celia, with all her
smiles and seeming frankness, must be a
disappointment for ever.

I almost forget an English room said
Celia, looking round; ' but I hope you have
got everything you want, Aunt Flo. Timms
will be here directly ; Suzanne is taking
care of her  Antoinette's old nurse, you
know.'

Thank you,' said Mrs. Percival. ' This is
a most beautiful old place, Celia ; I hope you
are happy.'

After she had said this, she felt somewhat
foolish, but the words came out in spite of
her.

Oh yes,' said Celia indifferently ;  but
mixed marriages are a mistake. Take my
advice, and don't encourage another.'

Mrs. Percival stared, silenced by her coolness.
Nobody, indeed, could truly say that
she had encouraged this one.

Celia lashed a little.

Don't look so frightened,' she said. ' It
is all right. 1 only said what everybody
says. I don't regret anything, you know.
I don't wish T had married Paul  though
his beard is certainly an improvement. But,
good heavens, how we should have hated
each other !'

You used to take things more easily,' said
Mrs. Percival.

 Well, I am not in the habit of worrying

myself, even now. But there are limits, and
Paul would have driven me beyond them 
simply by expecting too much. He is so
desperately critical, too, and in that I think
he has got worse.'

He is a very nice fellow,' said Mrs.
Percival.

Oh, I know you were always fond of
him. I thought it would make you happy
if I brought him back to-night  and Achille
too ; he shares your weakness. I knew that
only one person would object, and he was not
worth considering.'

Mrs. Percival listened, and felt that she
had nothing to say. But she did not quite
like the tone of the allusion to Vincent ;
and it incited her to make a small effort at
independence.

I have hardly spoken to Vincent yet,'
she said. ' Would you send him up to me

when you go downstairs ? You have quite
monopolized him this summer, Celia.'

Celia, cool and calm as ever, looked at her
with a smile.

He likes being here,' she said. 'Yes, I
know  I have told him that Woolsborouorh
will be jealous. But I shall not send him
up to you to-night, dear, because you look
awfully tired, and it will be very bad for you
to talk any more. There will be plenty of
time tomorrow. Here's Timms ; now I
shall say good-night.'

I shall not sleep,' muttered Mrs. Percival
; but the charming Marquise did not
hear. She lingered to say a word to
Timms, who felt uncomfortable, and answered
gravely. Then she gave her aunt a
little kiss on both cheeks, and disappeared.
White dress, fair face, red-gold hair, eyes a
little sombre as the smile died out of them ;

she glided along the dark polished corridor,
and down the broad stairs to the salon, still
occupied only by Vincent and the Figaro,

Mrs. Percival did not sleep ; perhaps the
deep silence, deeper than anything possible
in England, only varied in ghostly fashion
by the owls that hooted now and then in the
moonlight, had something to do with her
restlessness. Then she was wearying her
brain to think what she could do. what she
ought to do, in these difficult circumstances.
It would be so easy to exaggerate, to make
things out worse than they were ; for judging
from outward signs, it seemed that M.
de Gernay in his warnings  which it was
impossible to mention  had certainly exaggerated.
At any rate, it was plain that
Achille de Montmirail had no idea of complaining
to his wife's relations, whatever his
secret griefs might be. And Celia did not

betray herself, except by those heartless and
ungrateful words about a mixed marriage.
They were hardly enough to found a serious
lecture upon ; and besides  a lecture to
Celia  who could or would undertake such a
task ? Vincent was not a promising subject,
either, but his mother felt that she absolutely
must say a word to him tomorrow.

Another person who did not sleep that
night was Paul Romaine. He got up and
went out in the very early morning, while
the avenue and all the lower oTound were

o

full of mist, just beginning to be gilded and
to shine dazzlingly in the light of the rising
sun. He wandered about the old yards, the
wild walks through grass and wild - flowers
and young chestnut woods, that led mounting
up towards the vineyards, all hung with
purple bunches and silvered with dew. It all
seemed to him like a sort of fairyland. He,

too, like Mrs. Percival, was dreaming ; especially
when Di and Jack joined him, knowing
an old friend, and ran with him through
seas of soaking white grass, while the sun
rose higher, and colours began to glow, and
the world became more brilliant every
moment. The sky was clearing into blue,
the tints of the trees were almost dazzling,
jewelled all over as they were, and beginning,
some of them, to turn yellow and red
after the long hot summer. Above them all,
above old white walls, flowers, shadows,
colour, the high vanes of the chateau with all
their flashing gilded points pierced the blue.

Paul walked down towards the avenue,
and there, between seven and eight o'clock,
he met two figures coming up out of the
misty valley. They were not the first people
he had seen, for work was going on already
in the vineyards and about the farm.

But these were of a different sort, being
the Marquis de Montmirail and his daughter,
coming back from early Mass in the village.
The church bells were even now ringing,
Paul did not know why ; he felt strangely
excited, and as if he had been carried into
some ideal world, as he met these two, and
wished them good-morning, and was suddenly
struck with a sort of likeness between them,
different as they were. He could not afterwards
remember what it was ; but he did
remember the tenderness, the nobleness of
Antoinette's eyes, childlike as they were,
and his feeling of being unworthy to meet
them. He remembered, too, another feeling
which did not seem unreasonable : a wish todo
something hard for these two, to fight
for them ; they had somehow that morning,
the look of creatures too noble to defend
themselves.

VOL. III. 52

I wish you were a Catholic, my friend
said the Marquis, in his straightforward way.
You might have been with us this morning.
Do you remember our talk one Sunday on a
hill  the first day we ever met T

Paul smiled. He could not echo the
Marquis's wish ; yet somehow it vexed him
at that moment to be reminded of any barrier
between himself and his foreign friends.
Yes, he was an outsider, an alien, after all.
For years past he had felt himself divided
from Achille de Montmirail, because of the
marriage with Celia ; now that division had
ceased to exist, for Celia was unworthy of
regret. Yet, as he stood there in the golden
morning shadows, keenly conscious of the
sweetness of Antoinette's eyes, he felt himself
embarking on such seas of difficulty as he
had never even dreamed of before.

They strolled slowly to the top of the

avenue, and stood there for a few happy
minutes, talking, looking down over the
meadows. The Marquis laid his hand on
Paul's shoulder, and leaned on it a little.
As he talked, his daughter watched him,
and Paul was aware of every change in her
face. There came to him a mad wish then
and there to kneel down at her feet, and say :

It was your will that I should come here.
What is the next work that you will give
your servant to do ?'

The day before, Paul had felt sufficiently
old, cynical, and world worn. Now he felt
triumphantly that he was only twenty eight ;
though he would have been startled to see
Antoinette in a pinafore. But the experiences
of that summer had given her more
than a few weeks of age ; she was as innocent,
true, and loving as ever, but she would
never again be a child.

522

Presently the Marquis left them suddenly
and went off with long strides across the
courtyard, past the front of the slowly-waking
chateau, disappearing in an arched
doorway beyond. Antoinette gazed after
him as long as he was in sight ; then she
clasped her hands, shrugged her shoulders,
and sighed, ' Mon Dieu, mon Dieu !' with an
accent of intense vexation. She flushed a
little, then turned pale, and frowned.

Is there anything that vexes you V Paul
ventured to ask, for the girl made no attempt
to hide these signs of feeling.

It is my poor father,' she said.

Mademoiselle, you are not the only
person who loves your father,' said Paul,
after a pause.

'Ah, si! You don't know  of course you
don't think so. But he knows  what am I
saying V

Nothing at all. Don't go away ! I
only meant that I love him too. I might
be able to help, somehow  tell me, wh}
did you look so anxiously after him just
now V

Paul stood and looked down at the girl,
speaking very low; and just then, in his
voice, look, and manner, there was something
that very few people would have believed
him capable of, something the like of which
poor little Antoinette had certainly never
seen before. The charm was irresistible.
Paul knew by instinct that he had committed
himself for ever, while her dark eyes
fell, and a wave of colour crimsoned her
young face. What would have been the
sentiments of her grandmother, Madame de
Ferrand, who thought no girl ought to know
of love's existence till after she was married !
For a moment they both stood still, as foolish

as two young lovers in a play ; then Antoinette
was the first to recover herself.

She lifted her head a little proudly, looking
in the direction that her father had gone,
with eyes resolved to show no consciousness
of anything new or wonderful.

He is gone into the chapel to pray,' she
said.

'Why not?' said Paul softly. 'I know
he is a very good man.'

Yes  he is indeed  but do not you see
anything strange in it, monsieur ? He was
always good and religious, but he did not
always pray at all hours, like a saint. He
will not go anywhere now ; he would not go
with us to Tours yesterday, and Suzanne
says he was in the chapel nearly all day.
And now you see, we have just come from
Mass. Surely le hon Dieu could not expect
him to pray again now !'

Paul could not smile  he did not even feel
the inclination to do so  at the girl's anxiety
and her odd way of expressing it.

I see what you uiean,' he said. * Is it
long since he took to it  since you noticed
the change in him V

A few weeks. But don't you agree with
me ? Don't you think he is changed too ?'

He seems graver than he used to be.
But that happens to us all as wee grow older,
you see.'

Yes ; but it is not that. Papa would
never have changed, if he was happy. Well,
it was at Trouville. He did not like being
there, this year  and one day he went out
for a walk with our friend M. de Cernay,
and came in quite strange. He seemed to
have taken things into his head  about me,

too  and I am afraid I vexed him '

Antoinette spoke very low, blushing again,

and with drooped eyelids. ' After that he
spent half of his time in the church, and
there seems to be a sort of fog between him
and the rest of us  though he knows I love
him  oh, how much !'

Paul stood looking at her in silence for a
moment. Then he said, his voice hardening
slightly :

*Have you said anything to Madame de
Montmirail about this ? Has she noticed it
too ? But of course she has,' he added quickly.

I don't know said Antoinette.

Paul watched her with the in tenses pity
and indignation. He knew that her confidence
in him could go no further ; the
shadowy trouble that was oppressing her
could not be put into words  unless  but
he pulled himself together, and remembered
where he was, who she was, everything. He
felt rather a hopeless fool, however, as he

muttered the only suggestion he could think
of at the moment.

*We must try to keep your father as
cheerful as we can. There's the shooting today.'


Yes. If I may ask, monsieur  will you
do me a great favour ?'

You have only to say what it is, mademoiselle.'


Will you stay with him all day, and take
care of him ?'

T shall be very glad. I thought perhaps
it would be something much harder than
that.'

That will be a comfort to me,' said Antoinette.


Paul wondered a little what train of ideas
had made her ask him this. A sort of
general anxiety about her father, he supposed.


He had half thought that she might santo
him, ' Send Captain Percival away ;' that
would have been a hard task  would be, for
it must be done somehow, by some means,
Paul felt, though he had not had the advantage
of M. de Cernay's information.

His studies in the thoughts of Antoinette
were interrupted by Suzanne, who came
bustling down to tell her that her coffee was
getting cold. Suzanne had been watching
the tete-astute for several minutes, till she
could bear it no longer ; there was no limit,
she found, to the insolence of these English
gentlemen. But Paul was not conscious of
her unfriendly looks. Antoinette asked him
gently if he, too, was letting his coffee get
cold, which reminded him of the fact that he
had seen no coffee, and that his morning's
walk had made him ravenously hungry.
They walked up to the chateau together,

Suzanne hurrying on before. Mrs. Percival
happened to be peeping through her shutters,
and wondered if young French ladies were
allowed in these days to walk about alone
with young men. Achille de Montmirail,
bare-headed, his fair hair shining in the sun,
came out from the dark chapel doorway, and
joined them on the terrace. To Paul there
seemed a curious light about his brow and
eyes ; he might have been some knight of
old time, who had seen the Holy Grail.

MRS. PERCIVAL's OPPORTUNITY.

The Marquise did not appear till nearly
eleven o'clock, and Mrs. Percival came down
about the same time. She had been writing
a long letter to the Canon, who, with all his
faults, was very fond of his wife, and had
not much approved of this expedition. He
and River Gate seemed a long way off, and
Mrs. Percival sincerely wished herself back
again. She did not think herself suited to
foreign life or to tragedies.

The weight of Celia s and Vincent's disloyalty,
however, rolled off in spite of her,

when she came down into the cheerful brilliancy
of that morning at La Tour Blanche.
The lightness and brightness of everything
struck her with amazement : Celia's careless,
laughing talk  with M. de Cernay, of all
people, who had come to breakfast, as well
as two or three other sportsmen, before going
off to shoot  Achille's politeness and fine
looks, dressed as he was in a linen shooting-coat
that would have tried most people. He
was telling Vincent and Paul, who were got
up in a different style, that before they had
walked far they would wish their English
clothes back in England. Then the diningroom
was so pretty, the shutters nearly
closed, rays of sunlight falling in on the
polished breakfast-table with its silver dishes
and heaps of fruit and flowers ; and Antoinette,
her dark eyes smiling, free from, trouble
for the moment, as it seemed, sat beside Mrs.

Percival and talked to hei in a charming
little way, begging her to come and see her
garden and her chickens.

It was all more French than anything
Mrs. Percival had ever seen in France, except
long ago, in time spent with Madame de
Ferrand. She had felt the fascination of it
then ; she felt it now ; only behind her involuntary
enjoyment lay that feeling of unreality,
of dancing on a volcano, of the
deception of a dream, which had haunted her
ever since she arrived.

After breakfast she went out on the terrace
with Antoinette, and watched the sportsmen
and their dogs getting ready to start.
All the arrangements were very un-english :
the men in linen jackets and straw hats, with
bags to carry their own game ; each man followed
by his own dog, and no keepers to be
seen. There was immense talking and excitement,

and hurrying to and fro. ]airs.
Percival did not quite know what it was all
about, and found the sun, which was blazing
down on the terrace, decidedly too hot. She
went back into the cool dark hall, and turned
into the salon. Antoinette, who was playing
with the dogs and watching her father, did
not follow her. Paul, too, was out there,
rather happy and amused. Jack, a dog constant
to old associations, had attached himself
to him, and would not leave him. Di seemed
more to value her privilege of following
M. de Montmirail. The Frenchmen very
much admired these Clumbers, who were
very clever dogs at poking here and there in
French fashion, and driving the o-ame out of
hedges and gorse thickets, besides being just

as happy in the water as on land.

In the salon, which was almost dark  only

crossed by lines of light from the shutters 

Mrs. Percival found Celia lying back in an
armchair, and Vincent standing at a corner
of the mantelpiece, looking down at her and
talking. Mrs. Percival was quite conscious
that he stopped short when she came
in.

You are going to shoot, Vincent, are you
not V she said, and her tone was unusually
sharp for the gentle Mrs. Percival.

Yes, madame said Vincent, not crossly,
i)ut in a resigned sort of way.

Well  they are ready to start.'

Oh no, they will chatter for some time
yet. I know their little ways,' he answered,
and he looked at Celia and laughed. ' I
mean to take it easy, and I don't see the use
of getting a sunstroke to begin with.'

You a soldier, and from India ! And as
to your manners !' said Mrs. Percival. * I
wonder you can endure him, Celia.'

Celia sat motionless, smiling lazily, looking
down at the fan she was playing
with.

 She likes me very much,' said Vincent.
Don't you, helle Marquise  helle cousine?
that little ass, M. de Cernay, is always
calling you " helle voisine.'' I wonder how
you can stand his impertinence, really.'

'Nonsense,' said Celia. 'Yes, Aunt Flo,
you are right ; he is unbearable. So utterly
unmanageable  but I think it must be partly
your fault for bringing him up so badly.'

Oh, no doubt. I dare say it is entirely my
fault,' answered Mrs. Percival, with a touch
of coldness.

She sat down in a low chair beside a little
velvet table, on which were some pretty old
things  snuff-boxes, Montmirail miniatures,
and so on. She began examining these
things one by one, with an air of interest,

VOL. III. 53

while Celia still played with her fan, and
Vincent lounged in his corner.

'Who is this ' Mrs. Percival was beginning,
after a minute of silence, when the
door was pushed open behind her, and
Achilles voice said :

Is Celia here ? Ah ! Would you come
to me in the library for a moment, mon
amie f

His wife looked round with an air of surprise,
lifting her eyebrows ; then got up
slowly, and walked languidly out of the
room.

Vincent immediately, with a sort of sigh,
threw himself into the chair she had left.
Mrs. Percival looked at him, while she
played with the miniatures.

Isn't this a jolly room V he said, after a
moment. ' Fancy you, of all people, finding
your way here, and actually bringing Romaine

with you. My father was a wiseman,
I suppose, as usual ; he preferred staying
at home

Fancy you spending your whole life here.
That strikes one as still funnier,' said Mrs.
Percival.

Well, I don't know any just cause or
impediment,' said Vincent, staring at her
fiercely, but speaking good - humoured
enough. ' Celia and I were always good
friends, and now we are better friends still.
She made a tremendous mistake once ; but
it is always possible to make the best of
things, you know.'

 It is not always either right or possible
to escape the consequence of one's mistakes
said Mrs. Percival rather stiffly.

 Very neatly put, my dear mother ; but
people generally do what they can in that
way.'

532

And, Vincent, as to Celia's mistake  of
course you mean her marriage  never was a
person more bent on making a mistake of
the kind. If you had been at home things
might have been different. I can't say '

They certainly would

Well, I assure you that she seemed perfectly
satisfied with what she was doing.
But Celia, to me, is incomprehensible. My
opinion is, that she has no heart at all. I
have told you so before, Vincent. I daresay
it amuses her to have you here, but as
to caring  if you were to get shot accidentally
to-day, for instance,' said Mrs. Percival,
warming to the subject, ' it would be no
great trouble to her. She would eat her
dinner just as comfortably after it.'

Vincent himself had told Celia the same
sort of thing often enough, but his mother's
saying it made him rather angry.

You certainly don't understand her,' he
said. ' However, if you were right  would
you at this moment, may I ask, prefer that
Celia should be desperately in love with
me?'

Prefer ! Don't talk in that wicked way,
Vincent said his mother.

'Very well,' he said. 'Then don't you
see what a safe state of things it is ? Madame
la Marquise  I adore her, there is no one
else worth looking at in the world, in my
opinion  is absolutely above danger. She
has supreme good sense  I grant you, she is
a little cold, but so much the better for her.
There never lived a woman more able to take
care of herself, and to enjoy life a little too,
in spite of her stupid marriage.'

Stupid marriage ! He is much, much too
good for her.'

Exactly ; that's the stupidness of it. Now

are you comforted, my dear soul ? Do you
see that my staying here does no harm to
anybody, except myself, which doesn't count V

No, I don't see,' said Mrs. Percival. * If
sou were not here, people would not talk,
and Celia would make herself contented, and
Achille de Montmirail would be happy,
which I can plainly see he is not. He is too
nice to make himself disagreeable about it 
but I can see that you ought to go away 
and you know it yourself, too. You talk
about being '* good friends " with Celia, but
people have eyes, and are quite sharp enough
to see the meaning of that.'

Now I should like to know who has been
talking to you about it V began Vincent, in
his most obstinate tones. ' Someone has
put you up to all this ; you have not been
here long enough to see for yourself. Come,
confess ; you will have to tell me in the end.

Not that little beast De Cernay, in the train
yesterday ? Or does it all spring out of
Romaine's imagination ? Scandal was never
in your line, so I shan't give you all the
credit to yourself.'

Mrs. Percival had no time to answer his
questions, for just then, much to her relief,
Celia came back into the room.

I wish people wouldn't be tragical she
said, with her pretty smile. ' Achille has
just wished me good-bye as if he was going
off to the wars, and never expected to come
back again. Is Vincent gone ? Oh, there
you are ! The room is so dark, I can't see.
Well, they are starting now, so you had better
wake up and go with them.'

Vincent got up, but lingered a moment.
The talk with his mother, for whom, after
all, he had some respect, had left a shadow
on his face.

 You won't be contented till you have got
rid of us all,' he said. ' What are you going
to do when we are ozone to the wars V

We are o:oino to drive to Bois-le-Comte,
if Aunt Flo would like it,' said Celia.

Bois-le-Comte ! There's a dead rose in
the moat somewhere,' he murmured, so that
Mrs. Percival could hardly hear him.

But she heard Celia's lauohino answer :

Oh, good dog, you are waiting for a bone,'
and saw her give Vincent the rose she was
w earing.

He went out without further farewells ;
and then Celia turned to her aunt, with
her usual matter-of-factness, and began
to explain what Bois-le-Comte was, and
who lived there, and how the drive was
very pretty, though rather long. Mrs.
Percival was quite ready to drive anywhere
or do anything. Her cheeks were burning

with the excitement of talking to Vincent.
She was half frightened now at her own
courage in facing him, and yet glad that she
had done it. Certainly her son was a more
hopeful subject than her niece, though she
could not say much for him. He loved his
mother in a sort of way, she believed, and in
his more reasonable moments understood her
motives ; but as for Celia, once more, and
this time for good, she gave up any idea of
interfering with her in any way. She was
far too stately, far too self-satisfied, far too
cold, this woman who could come in laughing
at her husband's affectionate good-bye. That
little touch repelled Mrs. Percival from Celia
more than she could have thought possible.
Till then, some kind of old superstitious
affection, lingering on in spite of all her own
convictions, had half kept her from believing
what she so often said, that Celia had no heart.

I should like a drive very much  whenever
you like,' she said cheerfully, determined
not to be oppressed by Celia.

Very well. At two o'clock, then, please,'
said the Marquise. ' I wonder if Antoinette
will come.' She went to the window and
pulled open the shutters. * Netta ! why do
you stand out there in the sun, petite, without
even a parasol ? My aunt and I are going
to Bois-le-Comte this afternoon ; will you
come too V

Antoinette, who was standing rather
dreamily on the terrace, looked round at her,
and then walked slowly up to the window.
Her usual ready sweetness seemed for once
to have deserted her.

My dear child, you are stupefied with the
heat !' cried Celia. ' Come in at once. You
had better lie down for an hour. What
do you say about going with us V

Antoinette stepped in at the window. She
looked pale and odd ; her eyes were frightened
and confused, and she gazed at her stepmother
with a sort of anxiety.

Do you feel ill, my dear V said Mrs.
Percival kindly, going up to them, and taking
the girl's hand.

The friendly human touch seemed to bring
Antoinette back to her senses.

Oh no, madame, thank you ; I am very
well,' she answered politely. ' But, maman,
I think, if you will excuse me, I should like
to stay at home this afternoon.'

You know I only want you to please
yourself,' said Celia, a little coldly.

Did papa say anything to you about
coming home early V

No, not a word.'

Ah ! when I wished him good-bye, he
said, rather in a hurry, '' I may be at home

early, perhaps long before the others. You

will arrange " and then M. de Cernay

called to him, and he went off at once.
I did not know what he meant.'

If he wants people to attend to his
sentences he should finish them,' said Celia,
with a slight laugh. ' There certainly is
nothing for you to arrange ; and you know
he would not wish you to stay at home from
a drive for him.'

I don't know. I think he did '

 As to coming home early, that is nonsense.
Of course he will stay With his
friends. However, petite please yourself.'

Thank you, maman. I think I will stay
at home,' said the girl ; and without saying
any more she went out of the room.

That poor child has a way of taking up
all her father's fancies,' said the Marquise.
Now, Aunt Flo, as we have a little light in



the room, I should Uke to show you my
tapestry. I really am rather proud of it, and
I know you are a good judge. These Frenchwomen
work very well, but I don't think they
have much notion of colour.'

Mrs. Percival was ready to admire anything,
and for the next few hours, talking the
old art jargon, driving, visiting, seeing new
country, and amused by new ways and new
people, she meekly followed-celia's lead.
Nobody could say that the Marquise de
Montmirail's manner to her nice English
aunt was not perfection.

At La Tour Blanche the day went on
slowly.

At first there were shots to be heard, but
they died away gradually in the distance, as
the sportsmen strayed farther from home.
After the carriage had driven away, Antoinette
came out again, and walked down with

Suzanne to the village, to pay a visit to the
Sisters, and arrange something about church
decoration for the following Sunday ; she
always supplied flowers for the altar of Our
Lady.

One of the Sisters, who was old and
friendly, and had known Mdlle. Antoinette
for years, hinted a question with respectful
smiles :

Was it true that she was going to leave
them all, one of these days ?'

Fas encore /' said Suzanne, shaking her
head and laughing.

Antoinette coloured faintly.

No, ma sours she said. ' I love the old
Tour Blanche far too much to leave it.'

She came out with Suzanne from the
Sisters' little house, the old one nodding her
white cap and smiling at the door, into the
sunny village street, where yellow leaves

were beginning to fall. It was three o'clock,
the Angels was ringing, and people looked
up from their work for a moment. A few
women crossed themselves ; among these were
Antoinette and her old nurse, as they came
down over the white bridge, where the water
rippled and ran, into the golden shade of the
avenue.

Later in the afternoon, when the shadows
were beginning to lengthen, Antoinette put
on her large pinafore tied with red ribbons,
and went round to feed her chickens. Her
little terrier, Rataplan, went with her, and
when this business was done, they came back
together and sat down on a bench in a shady
corner of the terrace, the only live things to
be seen in that great white square of walls
and towers, as they lay sleeping in their usual
drowsy quietness under the clear stillness of
the afternoon sky. Antoinette sat with her

hands folded, and a certain wistful wonder in
her eyes ; she looked childish enough still,
her black hair curling under her round shady
hat ; but she had learned a good deal since
the beginning of that summer, since the day
how well she remembered it !  when Vincent
Percival first arrived from Paris.

She was still too young to know that there
are hurts which are hopeless, and cannot be
healed ; and even now she thought that the
old days, so happy by contrast, might come
round again  the days when Celia seemed to
find all her happiness at home, with the two
who certainly found theirs in her. Well, it
was all very strange, and very disappointing ;
and perhaps even her father's friend, Mr.
Romaine, with those kind wonderful eyes of
his, could not do much good. French girls
are not usually shy or conscious ; Antoinette
certainly was not ; but she knew what shyness

was as she sat there and thought a Httle
of Paul, her eyes drooping at the remembrance
of his, a smile trembling about her
mouth, though she knew she was doing wrong.

Moil Dieu ! I am very wicked and silly
she sighed to herself at last ; and just then
Rataplan gave a low growl.

Then he sprang down barking from the
bench, and rushed in great excitement down
the steps into the courtyard. Then he came
back again, barking violently at another dog,
which climbed the steps wearily, its tongue
hanging out, and came grovelling in spaniel
fashion along the terrace, and laid itself down
at Antoinette's feet.

Chut, Rataplan ! what is this V cried the
girl wildly, for she saw that the dog was Di,
who had gone out with her father. The poor
animal had been shot, for a wound in its
neck was bleeding slowly, staining all the

VOL. III. 54

white satiny curls that were as beautiful as
ever. Poor Di lay and panted in a shady
place, looking up to Antoinette with her gold-brown
eyes, which seemed to speak, to beg
for something.

Oh, my poor dog, who has hurt you ?
Quelle horieur /' cried the girl.  Lie still
then ; I must fetch you some water ;' and she
dashed into the house, screaming for Suzanne.
But Suzanne, perhaps asleep after her walk
to the village, did not hear.

Antoinette brought Rataplan's little pan
of water from the hall, and made Di drink,
which she did eagerly, and bathed the wound,
which seemed to be only slight, and the poor
clotted hair, while the old dog licked her
hands and gazed with piteous eyes. But
Antoinette, in all her grief and sympathy,
was not prepared for vvhat followed. The
dog struggled to her feet, and set off, lame as

she was, towards the steps. Antoinette
stood watching her with wonder, and then a
sudden terror made her heart stand still. Di
came back to her, took a corner of the white
pinafore in her mouth, and pulled it gently ;
then ran back to the steps again, stopping,
looking back, whining suddenly a little, as if
to say : ' Don't you understand me V

Antoinette followed her a few yards, and
then she ran down the steps, and stood wagging
her tail for a moment, looking up with
those speaking eyes of hers. So she went
on down the courtyard, and by this time
Antoinette understood, though in a strange,
unconscious way. For she never could remember
what she thought, or feared, or felt,
or which way they went, or how she scrambled
through hedges, jumped ditches, and flew
along lanes, in her wild run with Di across
country, that silent, terrible afternoon.

542

LE COIN DU BOIS.

Paul hardly needed the remembrance of his
promise to Antoinette to keep him near her
father all that day, for the Marquis seemed
to take special care not to be separated from
him.

The rest of the party scattered themselves
about in their own fashion ; and every bank
and hedgerow seemed a confusion of dogs
and guns.

As Paul joined in the fun he wondered
that there were not a few accidents, but
nothing happened ; with all their apparent

wildness these Frenchmen were very careful,
and very good shots. There was a great
deal of game, especially hares and red-legged
partridges ; the bags soon promised to be
large ; and as they worked their way farther
away from La Tour Blanche, the country
grew much wilder. The great woods which
the sportsmen skirted, talking of wild boar
and of hunts later in the season, broke into
rocky, sandy tracts and scattered fir-trees ;
the yellow, light soil, the tufts of heathen
hardly dead, the blocks of crumbly stone
covered with red and green mosses, made
Paul think of Surrey. The country, indeed,
though much wilder, with its scent of pine-woods,
and the wide shining views from high
points here and thei-e, was not unlike some
corners of his own Red Towers estate.

Paul, after the first, was rather more inclined
to stare about him, and to enjoy his

impressions of Anjou  the broom, though
out of flower now, waving over his head 
than to join in the constant popping and
shouting that surrounded him on all sides.

It seemed that M. de Montmirail was
aware of his friend's inclinations, for he presently
said to him, * Come this way,' and
they climbed down a sandy bank into a lane,
which seemed to lead, in a roundabout way,
back in the direction of the chateau. A little
farther on, this lane sank down between high
banks and waving hedges, under the deep
shade of which it was pleasant to walk, in
the heat of that September afternoon.

This is jolly,' said Paul, looking up into
the arching broom and nut boughs ; and Di
and Jack trotted cheerfully behind  they
too were not sorry to be out of the broiling
sun.

Achille, as he tramped steadily along,



beofan talking* about the Vender war, the
chief theatre of which, however, had been
south of this country. Other wars, too : he
pointed out, as they passed it, the traditional
site of a battle with the English, very,
very long ago. As to the Prussians, they
had never come so far.

All the time, as he talked, he had that
sort of look Paul had noticed in the morning;
something bright and noble, yet solemn  a
Montauban ' sort of look, thought Paul,
who in his young days had been a devout
lover of Fouquet, and still in his heart kept a
loving reverence for the land of romance.

Presently I will show you a place that
may have been a little stronghold in some of
those early wars,' said the Marquis. ' But
first let us sit down on these stones and resta
little. I am not so young as I was, my
friend, and a great deal older than you.'

I suppose one may say that you are in
the prime of life,' said Paul, as they sat down
on some large stones, laying their guns on
the ground beside them.

The prime of life,' repeated Achille.  No,
I think that was some time ago. Are you
sure you would rather be here  rather than
gaining credit for being the good shot you
are  like Monsieur Vincent V

Much rather, thank you.'

Achille looked at him from head to foot
deliberately, with those kind blue eyes of his,
and then said :

It was in this month  how many years
ago ?  that you and I first met each other,
and sat and talked together on that hill,
looking down on Sir John Lefroy's park V

Five years ago,' said Paul.

Only that ! One may live a life in five
years, certainly. As to you, your life is nob

begun yet. No ; all your little boyish affairs,
and your travels, are nothing. You do not
know what life means.'

I think I have some notion,' said Paul.

I think not. In those days you were
uneasy; you did not understand yourself, or
other people. You were not happy in what
seemed to be your happiness '

At any rate, I knew what it was to be
wretched,' said Paul rather shortly, for these
were strange allusions.

Pardon  that you did not know. As a
boy, if you like. Well, all that is lived
through, and done with. If you ever meet
the Lefroys, you may as well give them
news of me. Perhaps Lady Lefroy will ask
Antoinette to stay with her ; but I have not
written to them for long.' He paused, looking
thoughtfully on the ground for a minute ;
then he looked at Paul again. ' Did you

ever think that I had injured you, my dear
friend?' he said.

For a moment Paul could not answer ; he
felt himself reddening absurdly, under the
clear, strange scrutiny of those eyes.

I believe I did, and that you thought so,'
said Achille.

No, you did not. No said Paul. ' If I
ever thought so, I was unreasonable.'

It never quite appeared so to me, till
within the last few weeks,' said Achille
simply. ' However, I am satisfied that you
should say that. At the time, perhaps, I did
not consider it enough  it, or anything else.
Well, we pass through a piece of our life
blindfold, and then somebody tears off the
bandage  and then, after all, one remembers
that seeing and believing are the same thing
in one case, though not in another.'

It must be confessed that this sort of talk

was becoming very painful to Paul ; not that
he could not now look back with very tolerable
philosophy, and even a touch of thankfulness
; but he was more and more impressed
every moment with the great change in his
companion from the Achille de Montmirail
he remembered. That was the very simplest
and most straightforward of mortals, loving,
hating, believing, in a clear, sincere-minded
sort of way, without any reflecting, or reasoning,
or philosophizing ; capable of strong
passions ; perfectly open in thought and
speech. About this new Achille there was
something mysterious, with all his goodness ;
a hidden trouble moving and sighing uneasily,
like a wild beast in a net. Among
Paul's fancies about Achille afterwards, was
one of a guardian angel leaning over him, a
hand touching his lips, keeping him loving
and loyal to the woman who had disappointed

him, and shedding that curious, unearthly
radiance which seemed to shine about his
brow and eyes.

As they sat there talking, Paul was aware
of the figure of a little girl, who came
wandering along the lane, in a close cap and
a ragged frock down to her heels. As she
came she was gathering wild flowers, of
which she had already a bunch in her hand ;
and she stared with large black eyes at the
Marquis and his friend.

That child lives at the little farm I was
talking of just now,' said M. de Montmirail.
Is your mother at home, petite T

She shook her head, still staring, especially
at Paul ; and then she went on more quickly
and disappeared round a corner, looking back
now and then, or stopping to pull a flower
out of the bank.

Poor little thing, she never speaks,' said

the Marquis. ' Let us walk on, if you don't
naiad.'

They followed in the little girl's footsteps,
turning off the lane, as she had done, on a
wild stretch of barren ground, half marshy in
places, with rushes growing tall, and then
again a thick carpet of heather. On the
further side it was sheltered by a small pine
wood, round which the path, such as it was,
went winding on. It was hardly to be traced
at all across this wild little common. The
child was not far advanced. When she saw
them coming she lingered still more, walking
near them, gazing at them, constantly stooping
to gather something that attracted her ;
but the Marquis was talking to his friend
and did not notice her any more. As they
slowly crossed the common, he said to Paul :

Do you know that you are the best friend
I have V

I am glad you think so, and yet I ought
not to be, for certainly I am a very useless
one,' answered Paul.

You are an honest man, and you like me,
without any particular reason for it.'

Paul smiled.

'And therefore 1 am going to ask you a
question, and I want a true answer to it
Now I need not tell you that my wife is 
that she is the person I admire most on
earth ? It never can have been my wish to
make her unhappy, and I certainly thought
that she married me of her own free will.
Do you think it was so V

*Most certainly, I should say,' Paul answered.


Well  and at that time I had never even
heard of the existence of Vincent Percival.
But now I am told that they were attached
to each other when they were young. My

dear friend  I have not forgotten  this calls
up painful recollections for you ; but do you
think she would have married him if I had
not come forward then V

Paul hesitated a moment.

I know Vincent Percival always admired
her he said ; ' but I do not think she had
ever any intention of marrying him.'

I am glad,' said the Marquis in a low
voice. * It is only that they were cousins,
then, and very intimate friends. I have not
hindered the happiness of her life.'

I think you may be pretty sure,' said
Paul, ' that if she had wished to marry
Percival she could and would have done so.'

Ah ! He may have thought himself injured
 that is a tendency of his, perhaps. But
I don't altogether like M. Vincent. He should
not have talked about my wife to my friends.
He did so, I assure you, and something of

what he said was repeated to me. Don't tell
anyone this, Romaine. It has made me wish
that he would go away ; but of course I could
say nothing to him or to Celia. She would
have been very much hurt, and it was a
subject on which I could not speak to him.'

Perhaps he will go back with Mrs. percival
said Paul. ' It is hard, certainly, that
you should have him hanging about here
when you don't like him.'

I don't know  I may be unreasonable
and selfish,' said the Marquis, and then he
added very low : * It is hard for a woman to
live her life away from her native country.'

'Not so hard, when she has everything
she can possibly wish for said Paul.

If you were to marry a foreigner, man
cher, you would find that I am right,' said
Achille ; and then for a few minutes they
walked on without speaking.



They turned the corner of the clump of
firs, and walked along a sort of lane, more
like a ditch or a watercourse, with the high
sandy bank of the wood on one side, and
on the other a green bank several feet high,
sloping up to a hedge, beyond which was
a field which seemed to grow, more than
anything else, a splendid crop of autumn
crocuses. The long trailing briars of the
hedge were laden with blackberries, or red
hips of wild roses ; above waved the long
green feathers of broom, with here and there
a nut-tree, and a gorse-bush still in yellow
blossom.

All the place was quite still, not a breath
stirring ; the only sounds were the two men's
footsteps, and the eager rustling of the dogs
along the hedge. A dozen yards further,
the lane seemed to end in a green pond,
scattered with yellow leaves ; but the path

VOL. III. 55

skirted this, on a narrow stone causeway
under the hedge, which seemed to suggest
that human dwellings were not far away ;
and, indeed, through the gaps in the hedge,
some dark old roofs and walls were visible
across the field.

That is the old farm I told you of, Coin
du Bois,' said the Marquis. ' If you look at
its low arches, and loopholes, and the thickness
of the walls, you will agree with me
that it has seen fighting. Some out-of-the-way
corners like this may have more startling
stories to tell than the chateaux and hayes
of Touraine.'

Yes, no doubt ; but one has to make the
stories for one's self,' said Paul.

Bien ! a man with an imagination, like
you !'

While his friend looked at him curiously,
smiling, Achilles stood still again, looking on

the ground, with a grave, puzzled air. Paul
wondered if he was going to talk any more
of his family history, and thought it would
be better not. So he said, ' We seem to have
left all the shooting a long way behind.'

 No ; we shall have some ourselves directly.
This is a favourite corner of mine ; there are
always birds here. But I was thinking
of something else just then  of the chief
anxiety that I have. Yes, indeed, the chief
one.'

'It strikes me,' said Paul, ' you would
enjoy your sport more if you left your
anxieties at home.'

Even as he said this, something reproached
him; the words sounded harsh and rude,
though he was far enough from meaning:
them to be so. Afterwards he remembered
them with real pain and shame ; but he
knew that Achille had not taken them 

 2

kindly. In fact, he hardly seemed to notice
them at all.

Ah, my dear young fellow, you have
plenty of time,' he said ; and then he laid
his hand on Paul's shoulder, looking him
straight in the face. ' I wish you were a
Catholic and a Frenchman,' he said. ' I
should not then hesitate to propose to you
a marriage with my daughter.'

Paul answered very quietly, returning the
steady look that was fixed upon him : ' You
would do me too much honour*, my dear
Marquis. But with those difficulties  must
it be out of the question for ever ?'

Antoinette likes you  she told me so 
et onoiy my little Paul, I love you as if you
were my son already,' said Achille in his old
simple way, his own kind bright smile lighting
up his face.

At that instant there was a commotion in

the field beyond the hedge, and the little
ragged girl, who was still lingering a few
yards in advance, watching men and guns
and dogs with what seemed a painful curiosity,
threw up her arms and screamed. A
covey had risen, with a great whirr and
flutter, just under Di's nose on the other side
of the hedge.

Achille. with his gun in his hand, began
instantly to clamber up the bank. Something
hurried and careless in his manner of
doing so made Paul exclaim : ' Take care !' ashe
was about to follow him through the same
gap in the bushes. The words were scarcely
out of his mouth when the gun was caught
by some strong trailing briars, and at the
same moment the Marquis slipped and lost
his footing on the dry grass near the top of
the bank. He could not at once recover
himself, catching at the bushes with one

hand, and pulling his gun with the other.
Paul, standing horrified in the lane, saw it all
without power to save him. The loud report,
the smoke that followed it, kept him for a
moment ignorant of what had happened ; but
then came a great crashing of the bushes, and
Achille, now without any effort to save himself,
fell and rolled down the bank to the
green margin of the lane. There he lay at
Paul's feet, unconscious and bleeding, while
Di, howling piteously, came scrambling
through the hedge. She had been close to
her master when the gun went off, and the
shots had grazed her neck, but it did not
seem to be for herself that she lifted up her
head and cried.

It appeared to Paul that nearly the whole
charge of the fun had entered Achille 's side
and shoulder, and in trying as well as he
could to stop the bleeding, he felt hopeless

from the first, and knew that his friend was
fatally hurt. He was in terrible perplexity
what to do. He could not leave him to fetch
help. The little ragged girl, the only living
creature about the place, had disappeared 
no doubt frightened away ; and when, having
bound up the wounds as well as he could
with handkerchiefs, and supported Achille,
who was unconscious, against the bank, he
ran back to the common and shouted at the
top of his voice, besides firing off his own gun
several times in quick succession, nothing
answered him but a mocking echo from some
high ground opposite. When he came back
he saw that Di too had disappeared, though
the other dog was lying dismally in the lane.
He thought the poor faithful old dog had
probably slunk away to die, thinking, perhaps,
that she was the cause of her master's
accident. He hurried on to the pond, filled

his hat with water, and coming back to
Achille, supported him once more in his arms,
and bathed his face and head. His eyes
were closed, and the breath came in long
gasps. As the terrible minutes passed on,
no help coming, no human creature passing
that way, an utter silence brooding over the
woods and lanes of that lonely country, not
even a distant shot to mark where thei'
former companions were, Paul's thoughts
flew back to Colonel Ward's death bed : how
peaceful it was, and how Di had watched
him to the last. Little he thought, dear old
man, what would be the after history of his
favourite, when he wished to give her to Celia.
Those past scenes came up vividly before
Paul's mind, as he knelt there supporting his
dying friend ; there was nothing else that
could be done for him. Those old stories
seemed now like reality, and the present

experience like a strange and awful dream.
Paul wondered vaguely how long it would
last. He felt sure that soon this painful
panting, the only sign of life, must cease.
He knew enough of surgery to be sure that
no doctor could do any good ; and this conviction
became firmer as the grey shades of
death began to gather on his friend's face.
Not to move him any more, to make death
as easy to him as possible  that, Paul felt,
was the only thing he could do. And then,
as the shadows lengthened in the lane, and
the afternoon wore away, surely some of the
people who belonged to that little farm must
be coming home from work, or to attend to
the animals, if there were any ; and then he
would get help, and carry his friend into the
house, and send or take this news to La
Tour Blanche.

How would they receive it ? What would

Celia feel ? That was a question that could
not be answered.

It was easier to think of Antoinette  poor
lovely child !  the person she loved best in all
the world taken from her in this terrible,
sudden way, and she herself left in the care
of her stepmother. No wonder she was
anxious. Paul knew it must have been some
presentiment that made her beg him to stay
near her father all day ; and much good he
had done by obeying her !

Then, as if in answer to his thoughts, there
came a sudden change in the face that he was
watching. Achille opened his eyes, still so
blue and kind, though the shadow of death
lay upon them, and smiled with a sort of
surprise, looking up towards Paul.

Antoinette !' he said in a whisper.

Then he moved, stretching himself out a
little, and whether that movement did any

mischief Paul could not know ; but suddenly,
with a sort of convulsion, the painful breathing
ceased, and his life was gone.

Paul felt what had happened, and yet
hesitated a moment before he could believe
it. the quiet soiile on the face was so full of
sweetness. However, after a few moments,
he laid Achille gentles down upon the bank,
and rose to his feet, and stood looking at
him. Men die every day, he was thinking,
but few men like Achille de Montmirail.

It did not surprise him  nothing could 
to see something white coming swiftly along
in the shadow, over the narrow causeway by
the pond : Antoinette in her large pinafore,
her hair, broken loose from its ribbons, flying
wildly behind her. Paul strode forward to
meet her, to save her from coming on that
awful sight unprepared. He did meet her,
and caught her two hands in his.

The girl looked at him, trembling from
head to foot.

Good heaven 1 what brought you here V
said Paul. ' Can you be brave ? It was an
accident ; he was climbing through the
hedge. I have been with him to the end 
but I could get no help, I could make no
one hear.'

But it is not too late now,' said Antoinette.
 You might fetch the doctor, and
M. le Cure. I will stay with him while you
go.'

'No  dear mademoiselle, wait a moment
'

I see,' she said. ' Don't be afraid for me.
I am quite brave. Di came and told me
that he wanted me.'

Paul could say no more.

She walked quietly forward, making the
sign of the cross, to where her father lay.

The lights and shadows were deepening, and
for years afterwards Paul could not be out
on a golden September afternoon without
that scene before his eyes.

She sat down under the bank, made Paul
lay the dead man's head in her lap. stooped
forward and gave him one little kiss on the
forehead, then covered his face with her
handkerchief

Now go,' she said. ' Find some help ;
go all the way home, if you must. I will
take care of him till you come back.'

When Paul left her. which seemed to him
at first hardly possible, he ran along by the
pond, and almost immediately saw the two
stone gate-posts leading into the yard of the
little old farm, wild, untidy, heaped with
fodder and ling. Low round arches and
heavy walls, marks of old defences, had no
interest for him now ; but he went to the

house-door, which looked very much like
the entrance to a cow-house, and there, in
the full yellow glory of sunlight, in front of
a great Avide chimney, he found the strange
little girl with her wild flowers, standing
and staring at him. He spoke to her very
gently, and asked if there were any men
about the place ; probably she did not understand
a word, but she only shook her head,
and after one or two attempts he hurried off,
and made his way with some difficulty, with
a great deal of scrambling and guess-work,
across the tract of wild and wooded country
that lay between the old farm and the
chateau. His thoughts were so utterly
occupied with Antoinette all the time,
anxiety for her, and haste to get back to
her, that he hardly knew how, or where,
or to whom he told the terrible news ; he
only had a vision of Celia, white as marble,

just getting out of a carriage at the terrace
steps.

When the people from the chateau, Paul
at their head, reached the place where the
Marquis lay, they found Antoinette sitting
quite still, as he had left her, waiting
patiently. She had not been crying. ' How
could I cry V she said afterwards ; * it would
have disturbed him.' She was not quite
alone ; on the other side of the lane sat
Jack, the Clumber, and the little raoored oriel
from the Coin du Bois, still grasping her
bunch of flowers. A few yards lower down
Paul discovered Di in a hollow of the bank ;
but she was dead, perhaps from grief at
having returned too late.

He came back the next day, and buried
her in the little spinney above. There
Colonel Ward's old favourite sleeps, far
enough away from her first and dearest

master, but with the pine music sounding
over her head, just as if she had found her
last rest in his garden in Surrey. One feels
quite sure that he would not have disapproved
of the manner of her end.

While Paul was taking Antoinette towards
the carriage, which had been sent as far as
possible to meet them through the lanes,
the strange child followed them a little way,
and then suddenly ran up and thrust her
fading flowers into Antoinette's hand, with
a muttered something like ' Adieu !' Then
Antoinette's tears came, and blinded her, so
that Paul had to lead her gently by the
hand through those rough ways.

THE SURPRISE.

In the dusk of a November afternoon, with
fog up to the windows, Paul Romaine was
sitting alone in his study at Ped Towers.
For the last two months his life had been
curiously lonely and silent ; he had helped
Mrs. Percival to brinor her charles home to
England, Vincent having disappeared on the
morning after the accident, and then had
parted from them all in London without
much good-bye, and come down to his own
old home, where he shut himself up like a
hermit. Though the woods were full of fame.

VOL. III.



he could not be persuaded to take his gun
out, or to ask his neighbours to shoot. He
spent the daylight hours reading or playing,
and towards dusk generally went out for a
long walk with the dogs.

The place was really lonely now ; for soon
after his return the Cox family packed up
their artistic tools and went back to London
Ked Towers and its solitary squire had
been, on the whole, something of a disappointment
to them.

In those autumn days, Paul often found
himself wandering through the old rooms
as he used to do when he was a lad, though
now they were peopled with a new set of
visions, very unlikely ever to become realities.
His thoughts were constantly occupied with
Achille de Montmirail and their last walk
together, and the strange, touching, affectionate
wish that had been almost his last

word. And from that  was it any wonder ?
Paul's thoughts went on to occupy themselves
with Antoinette, and he was conscious
of a deep longing that she might belong to
him, and that he mio-ht have the rioit to
take care of her and make her happy. One
look from those sweet eyes, that he remembered,
seemed to make it not impossible that
she might some day give herself to him ;
and yet Paul was rather despairing. He
thought himself a dull fellow ; he was haunted
by the difference of country and religion 
her father had thought those things drawbacks.


Is it possible,' Paul asked himself, ' that
she could ever forget it all and be satisfied
with me X

As he paced the drawing-room and the
library restlessly  in the midst of their
strange medley of new art colours and old

562

shabby furniture  he was entirely wrapped
up in plans for Antoinette.

He knew that she was still at hiver Gate,
where Mrs. Percival had taken her and
Celia. It had seemed the best plan after
the terrible shock to both of them. Paul
would perhaps have been unable to keep
away, if it had not been for Celia's presence
there ; he could not help shrinking from
that. Not that he at all imagined that she
would stay there all the winter ; the affection
between her and her aunt was hardly strong
enough, though this great trouble of hers had
seemed to draw them together. She was more
likely to go back to France, where she had
an assured position, and where her husband's
many friends were certain to receive her
kindly.

But Celia's doings and Antoinette's, present
or future, were arranged in Paul's mind on no

authority but his own. Nobody wrote to
him ; nobody told him anything.

Mrs. Percival had only written once since
she went home, and that was two months
ago. At last, however, on this foggy afternoon,
her second letter had made its appearance,
and as Paul read it for the second or
third time, he felt as if a human friend had
come to him in his solitude.

Mrs. Percival began with a great many
apologies, which Paul skipped. Then she
told him that Vincent was coming in a fortnight
to say good-bye before going back to
India. Also that Celia,  looking quite herself
again,' had lately gone to London, and
from there on business to Paris, but was
coming back to River Gate, she did not quite
know when.

I wish this poor child Antoinette could
throw off her grief as Celia does,' wrote Mrs.

Percival, * and vet I don't. I had no notion
a French girl's character could be so deep,
and her affection so strong. However, she
is like her poor father, who certainly was
different from other Frenchmen. I shall be
sorry when the Lefroys come hieland I have
to resign her to them. I suppose it will be
soon. Could not you come for a few days while
we are such a small party ? I should like
to see you, and so would the poor girl, I feel
sure. Her eyes were quite bright yesterday
when I mentioned your name, though one
would have thought the association painful.'

So the young squire of Red Towers sat
over his study fire that afternoon, and made
up his mind. Of course, time only could
show whether his dreams could come true,
and his wishes be realised ; but he Icnew that
a visit to River Gate now would be a step in
this direction.

He had only to wait a few weeks, till
Antoinette was gone away to her own relations,
and then, in all probability, years ora
lifetime might pass without his meeting
her aofain. He was honest enough, and
forced himself to think of the objections, of
his own ignorance, of her father's words,
that it was hard for a woman to live out of
her own country. Could he make her happy ?
Would she be contented with what he could
do for her ?

In her own country she might marry a
man of high rank, and have the friends and
society that belonged to her own race. Would
it kill the young foreign flower to be transplanted
here?

Paul also told himself that he had not any
real reason to think that she did more than
like him in a very moderate way, or that she
had understood the greatness of his admiration,

and what it meant. She had always
known of him as her father's friend, and
most Hkely thought of him as much older
than he was  a sort of uncle, in fact.

Paul could not help smiling at the fire
when he reached this point, and then something
came and swept all hesitations away.
It said :

Why do you torment yourself with holding
back like this ? You are alone in the
world, and so is she ; you have her father's
last words to tell you that you are not presumptuous.
Besides, you have thought of
nobody else for weeks. You love Antoinette
with your whole heart and strength. Her
father told you that your life had not yet
begun ; it is beginning now. Twenty-eight
is not exactly a great age, after all.'

1 will go to River Gate tomorrow !' said
Paul, in answer to these remarks.

He telegraphed to Mrs. Percival the next
morning, and arrived at Woolsborough in
the evening, just in time to dress for dinner,
so that he came down to the drawing-room
without having seen anyone. The world
was still wrapped in fog, at its densest hereby
the river, and Paul had had a damp, cold,
unpleasant journey. It was with a feeling
of great satisfaction, his new and happy
hopes filling all his thoughts, that he opened
the door of the delightful old room. With
the blazing fire lighting up all its rich colouring
and pretty things, it was quite as charming
in winter as in summer ; it had always
been so ; and the very sight of it, the touch
of the door-handle, the slow moving of the
tall, heavy door as he pushed it open, had a
way of making Paul feel a boy again. There
was only one lamp lighted, and that was
near the door ; but all the far end of the

room was glowing in firelight, and somebody
was sitting there, somebody in a long black
dress, shadowed by a screen. For a moment
Paul felt a little breathless ; it must be Antoinette
; then he quickly made himself remember
that she could not and did not care
for him ; then he was struck by something
strange in the attitude of this lady lying
back by the fire. It was too grown-up, too
luxurious for Antoinette, who had been
brought up differently from an English girl,
and still kept her childish habit of sitting
upright on a pouf or a high chair.

But Paul walked forward into the room,
and his doubts were set at rest immediately.
The shadowy lady turned her head, with a
glimmer of gold about it, held out her left
hand in a lazy, regal sort of way, and said,
You here !' in the voice of Celia.

I have just come. I did not expect to



see you,' said Paul quietly. ' I thought you
were in London.'

He was rather fanciful, and the associations
of rooms and things were never without
their influence on him. This old room 
what recollections lived in it ! He would
have said it was impossible ever to meet
Celia there again ; at this moment he despised
himself, almost forgetting all that had
come between, for his new dreams of meeting
somebody else. Here, at River Gate, Celia
seemed still to have her old influence. It
had been different in France ; she was not
the same woman there. Paul stood on the
hearth-rug and looked at his watch, comparing
it with Colonel Ward's old French
clock, which was on the chimney-piece.
Celia looked at him, her eyes shining and
very blue. Perhaps she read his thoughts,
for she was clever enough to do what she

chose in that way. Whatever her own
thoughts may have been, there was a kind
of suppressed excitement in her face as she
sat there ; a little flush was in her cheeks,
and her pretty mouth was set in a determined
fashion. Her black draperies suited
her wonderfully, and Paul knew that she
had never looked more lovely in her life.

In London ? No ; I wish I was,' she
said.  I came down last night, unfortunately
; but I am going back tomorrow
morning.'

He looked the question he could not ask ;
evidently something was wrong.

Oh yes,' she said, ' I am a very dreadful
person. You had much better not have
come to-day ; and Aunt Flo would have
been nicer if she had put you off. For my
own sake I don't care, though I suppose you
have not seen anyone yet, or heard anything V



No,' said Paul. ' I only got here at 7.20.
I don't understand '

You soon will,' she said.  They will tell
you directly after dinner, which will be carried
through with that ghastly, cowardly
stiffness which belongs to Uncle Tom on
occasions like this. He really is a walking
example of the Pharisees. Aunt Flo will
try to be polite, and choke down her tears.
I shall be scornful, and poor Antoinette,
being an ignorant child, will think English
tempers and manners very funny things.
You may be a bright spot, but I am afraid
you won't, now that I have told you all this.
You will be expecting the shock that is in
store for you. And when you know  I
suppose  you will be as bad as Uncle Tom
himself

Why do you say that V said Paul.

He stood gazing into the fire, for he did

not dare to look at Celia. There was something
in her voice that seemed to plead with
him, to thrill his whole being, to bring back
a thousand things better forgotten. How
terribly possible it is, after all, to forgive
everything to a creature one has once loved.
Paul had two natures, like the rest of us.
All that was best and strongest and manliest
in him had freed itself long ago from Celia :
the attraction that had drawn him to Antoinette
was honest and real ; some day it
would govern him completely, with no fear
of change. Bub now, here, in the old River
Gate drawing-room, haunted by Celia, it
seemed as if she had only to stretch out her
hand, to take her power again.

Why do 1 say that ?' she said. ' Because
you are hard, like the rest of the world.
You can't make allowances. You like people
to be unhappy if you think they ought.

Not that I care,' she went on, with the
strangest sob in her voice. ' I mioht have
reckoned on losing all my friends ; and after
all you are not one of them.'

Paul turned round quickly then, and
looked at her.

Yes, I am he said boyishly. ' I don't
know what you are talking about ; but I
suppose the Canon has taken things by the
wrong handle somehow. I will do anything
in the world for you only tell me yourself
what all this bother is about.'

Oh Paul, how nice you are !' murmured
Celia, with a slight, sad laugh, which ended
in a sigh.

The trouble she was in, whatever it might
be  Paul could not guess or understand 
was evidently something that moved the
depths of her nature. He was reminded of
old days, of times when she had said half

passionately that she was not good enough
for him ; but especially of that hour in the
Hotel des Deux Freres, five years ago, when
she had tried to win him back. She was in
earnest then, and now.

I have told my news once,' she said, after
a little pause, ' and really, do you know, I
don't feel inclined to do it again. I can see
you mean to be kind  thank you  perhaps
you won't be so hard upon me ; but after all
it is no business of yours. And you are
rather conventional, and you will be awfully
shocked and think me very heartless. That,
of course, I am, as the world looks at things.
Yes  you, of all people, will think I am
made of stone. And yet I fancy somehow
that you, of all people, will be the one to
understand me.'

Paul listened to these rather disjointed
remarks, and at the end of them he smiled.

I think you had better tell me all about
it,' he said.

Certainly not,' she said quickly, ' if you
have changed so utterly as to laugh at what
I tell you. That is worse than Uncle Tom.
My affairs have been no laughing matter,
Paul, for some time past.'

Who knows that, if I don't I' he replied
gently. I smiled because I thought what
you said was true  that I did understand
you. I beg your pardon.'

I believe you are the honestest man in
the world,' she said, looking at him.

At present I am the most curious he replied.


Don't be cynical,' she said. Her colour
deepened ; she leaned back in her chair, her
face shaded by a screen. ' I will make my
confession,' she said. ' I don't wish to excuse
myself  but I will just ask you to try

VOL. III. 57

and realize the sort of strain and loneliness
that I have been suffering lately.'

Of course  it is only natural Paul said
very low, as she seemed to pause for an
answer.

He had forgotten just then, in the absorbing
interest of herself and her talk,
that only two months had passed since her
husband was brought home dead. The
shadow of the tragedy fell upon him, for the
moment, in an almost overwhelming way.
You, of all people, will think that I am
made of stone !' Yes, Celia ; but what was
she driving at 1 What did she mean ?
She, watching him keenly, was quite aware
of a touch of wonder and coldness in his
manner, which had been so friendly just now.
Her own voice* was harder when she spoke
again; the effort, to do her justice, was a
really painful one.

Paul she said, ' I am going to be married
again. It may not surprise you very much 
to Vincent.' She paused, while he stood perfectly
silent, staring into the fire. ' There
goes your friendship,' she said lightly, with a
laugh which was sadder to him than tears.
Well, you are just like the others, only
rather worse, because they stormed. Can't
you say something to me, Paul V

I can say nothing that you will listen to,'
he said, after a moment. * It is not me that
you are hurting this time.'

I am hurting no one,' she said, almost
passionately. ' No, no one. I cannot be expected
to go back to France, to live among
all those people who hate me in their hearts.
Put yourself in my place, Paul : if anybody
ever could, you can. Why should I be condemned
to go on living a life like that, just
out of respect to what people will say V

572

But you are not alone '

You mean Antoinette. She will be better
without me. She has been very sweet to me
always  but now  Avell, we don't and can't
understand each other
She doesn't know V

Not yet, no. I can't tell her. I may
write to her.'

Perhaps she need not know yet. It would

be less painful as time goes on '

There is not much time to spare,' said
Celia. * You understand, don't you ? He
sails in three weeks, and I am going with
him.'

It was a moment or two before these words
penetrated to Paul's brain, and then he gave
no outward sign of sorrow or surprise. He
only said, as if speaking to himself : * Is that
really possible !' and then his strange talk
with Celia was ended, for the door opened,

and Mrs. Percival and Antoinette came in
together.

Mrs. Percival did not look pretty or attractive
; she was pale, and her eyes were red.
Antoinette was pale too, thinner and older
than in summer days, but the clear delicacy
of her young face, the dark beauty of her
eyes, were more remarkable than ever ; and
she met Paul with a smile that had something
of the old happiness in it. He both felt and
looked serious enough, and at that moment,
perhaps, Celia fell to her very lowest depths
in his esteem. There was the width of the
world, certainly, between a woman like her
and a girl like this ; and somehow, with a
keen thrill of pain, Paul felt himself unworthy
to touch the girl's hand.

Mrs. Percival looked curiously from him to
Celia, and then began talking to hoi, rather
absently, about his journey and the fog.

Paul, answering her questions, was all the
time watching Antoinette. She, quite unknowing
of this, had moved forward to the
chair in which her stepmother lay motionless,
and now, as she stood there, her hand was on
Celia's shoulder. After a moment Celia's
hand stole up to meet it, held it, pressed it
softly against her cheek in a little caress.
The things was all done in the shadow,
quickly and silently ; but Paul saw it without
looking, and thought about it very much
afterwards. Perhaps it was as well for Celia
that one person did not yet know the worst of
her; and yet this person, the most injured,
insulted, surely ought to know.

Then came dinner, and Canon Percival,
who received Paul with gracious dignity, and
offered his arm to the Marquise de Montis
with ceremony worthy of Louis the
Fourteenth.

A SONNET.

There was, no doubt, a great deal of truth
and justice in all that Canon Percival said
to Paul after dinner, all to which Paul
Hastened with his head bent down, silent,
because of a most strange, unreasonable
feeing that he could not speak without
defending Celia. And then the Canon
would have thought him either wicked or
mad, for how could any right-thinking man
defend or even excuse her ? Besides, the
Canon was not at all in a state for argument,

if anything of the kind had been
decently possible.

He had never been so shocked in his
life. Celia's conduct was unheard-of, scandalous.
To be sure, she had been badly
brought up ; her father and mother had
been poor sort of examples to her ; but
there had been a time Yhen certainly there
were better hopes of her.

However, the Canon had never approved
of that French marriage ; and he could
feel no more respect for a woman who
could change her religion like a pair of
gloves, in order to make life in a foreign
country less troublesome. But all that, of
course, was nothing to her present doings.
Her extraordinary disrespect for her husband's
memory, her utter want of feeling,
even of decency, were only equalled by her
astounding' coolness and insolence. She had

ao'ain chanofecl her religion, returning the
Church of England.

This was news to Paul.

A most valuable recovery !' said the
Canon, who was seldom goaded into sarcasm,
being a good-tempered man.

The wonder was, in his opinion, that she
had not proposed a gay wedding in Wools-borough
Cathedral, with anthems and wedding
marches. However, it was almost as
bad to invite her uncle and aunt to a quiet
marriage in London, actually asking him,
Canon Percival, to degrade himself by performing
the ceremony. Of course he had
flatly refused ; nothing would induce him or
Mrs. Percival to have anything more to do
with her. He flattered himself that she
thoroughly understood his feeling on the
subject, and his hope that he should see and
hear as little more of her as possible. That

she was to be his daughter-in-law, was of
course a terrible addition to the grief of it
all ; and the poor Canon went on to speak
very bitterly of Vincent.

That woman he said, ' has been the
ruin of him. Mrs. Percival tells me that
the attachment is one of long standing ;
and she thinks it was at the bottom of
Celia's breaking off with you. You had
a fortunate escape, Paul. But why, in
heaven's name, did she not marry him
then ? What was the object of marrying
that Frenchman, poor fellow, if she did not
care for him V

How should I know ? I suppose she
had her reasons,' said Paul.

Bad reasons  bad, like everything else
about her said the Canon.

Paul escaped as soon as he could, and
went into the drawing-rooms which he found

empty. After dreaming over the fire for
some time, he went to the piano, and sat
there playing wild melancholy music, which
took him back to the woods and the
heathery wastes of Anjou.

Once more he was walking with Achille
de Montmirail, and listening to his kind
voice as he talked, and watching the brightness
in his face, as there looked out a soul
whose judgments were different, larger, more
generous, than those of ordinary men. Even
then, it had struck Paul's fancy as very
strange that the Marquis's last trouble of
mind should be  not that his wife did not
love him as he loved her  but the fear that
he had in any way hindered the happiness
of her life.

Such a feeling, no doubt, such an almost
exaggerated generosity was more to be
expected from a very spiritual woman's

nature than from any man. It was a

t/

wonderful thing to exist in a simple, cheerful,
straightforward Frenchman like Achille
de Montmirail.

And what would he say now, this poor
soul, forgotten and outraged by the woman
whose happiness had been his one anxiety ?
Other people might be angry for him ; it
was right that they should be ; but what
would he say, if he knew ? Would he find
it an unpardonable sin, if she chose to take
her happiness in her own way ? Somehow
Paul suspected that he would judge his
wife more tenderly than anyone else did.
Perhaps, he thought, some day, he might
be able to make Antoinette understand this,
and forgive Celia, for whom she always
seemed to feel something of her father's
generous love.

Paul went on playing softly, till Mrs.

Percival came into the room, when he
stopped, and got up from the piano.

What are you playing, Paul V she said.

Just then,' he answered, ' I was playing a
sonnet of Shakespeare's  you know it  " Xo

longer mourn for me when I am dead "

And, do you know, I was thinking of somebody
who might have given that sonnet to
his wife, and meant every word of it. I
was thinking that he would not have wanted
her friends to be too hard on her. Of
course I could not say so to the Canon.'

Of course not, you odd boy !' said Mrs.
Percival, smiling, though her eyes were full
of tears.  Well, I dare say you may be
partly right ; he was rather like a saint, ora
poet, or something of that sort. But
whatever he may have been, however forgiving
and beautiful  I should call it rather
unnatural, not exactly human '

 Supernatural, superhuman murmured
Paul.

 Well, I don't know  we are human,
after all, and it is better to be what we are.
Anyhow, it does not alter right and wrong.
She is behaving most abominably. So is
Vincent, but she has led him on ; and after
all, he has cared about her for years.'

That may be her excuse, too,' said Paul.
I think  it would have been better if she
had married him a long time ago.'

Mrs. Percival sighed. ' What is the use
of looking back V she said. ' Come and sit
by the fire. Nobody will interrupt us.
She has gone to her room, and Antoinette
is with her. That poor child is rather
puzzled at her' stepmother's proceedings.
How she is to be told, I don't know.'

It won't be so hard, because she is very
noble, and can bear things,' said Paul.

He followed Mrs. Percival to the fire and
sat down opposite to her, leaning forward
with his head upon his hands.

It all seems like a bad dream,' he said.
I suppose we shall wake some day. In eye
more years you will have them coming home
from India, and it will be all quite natural.
Do you think they will be happy V

Few people ever deserved it less,' said
Mrs. Percival. ' Xo, Paul ; as you ask me,
I don't. I know them both too well.'

Poor Celia ! Then that will be punishment
enough for her.'

I don't pity her in the least,' said Mrs.
Percival. ' She has arranged things all
along to please herself It is impossible,
except for two or three foolish men, to pity
or love a nature like Celia. As to Vincent,
of course I am sorry for him ; he is my own
child.'

Paul did not make much answer to this.
Two or three foolish men !' he repeated to
himself, smiling a little.  You did not
always think it such foolishness, did you ?'

I always had my misgivings ; she was
always a strange girl,' said Mrs. PercivaL
Don't reproach me now, Paul.'

I didn't dream of reproaching you. I
was wondering whether I should venture
to tell you about something else  because I
should rather like to know your opinion 
though it may never come to anything, and
certainly won't for a long time, till all this
affair has blown over. But I have been
thinking of nothing else, all these last
weeks, and I came here to-day with only
one idea. Yo-ur letter rather encouraged
me. Are you too much bothered to listen
to me now ?'

Mrs. Percival's face brightened ; her

sympathy, as Paul knew, was always ready,
and she had a power of throwing off unpleasant
thoughts, which most people might
have envied her.

My dear,' she said, * I shall be very glad
if you will give me something nice to think
about. '

Paul then went on to talk about
Antoinette de Montmirail, as he might
have talked to his mother. His manner
was quiet, grave, and restrained ; but Mrs.
Percival saw that a great change had come
over him since that day in the summer
when he told her he had lost his faith in
women. This gentle French girl, almost
a child still, with the beauty of a pure and
truthful soul shining in her face, with the
grief that she had borne so heroically, with
her lonely place in the world, and now her
desertion by the one person who would
VOL. III. 58

have been likely to take care of her ; this
child, born for happiness, over whose life
for five years the half seen clouds had been
gathering, had most unconsciously proved
her womanhood by making a conquest of
Paul. One might say that he had come
out of Armada's garden, and then, after
walkintjf across a desert, found himself unexpectedly
at the gate of Paradise. He
told Mrs. Percival the story from the
beginning  his meeting Antoinette in
Roche's shop at Tours, that day, and then
her father's words to him, which made the
thing seem possible, and then the tragedy,
and the days after it, and the journey home,
and all his doubts, and thoughts, and brooding
since. Mrs. Percival listened, smiling,
her brown eyes shining as she asked little
questions now and then ; those eyes of hers
-smiled Paul's most secret confidences out

of him now, as they always did long
ago.

No, I should not feel anxious about her,'
she said. ' She is very affectionate, and so
perfectly simple in all her ideas. I must
say for Celia that she has not spoilt that
child ; she has very wisely kept hei innocent
and young. She knows nothing of the world ;
but that doesn't matter. Yes, I think you
can make her happy if you choose, Paul.'

But Mrs. Percival did not speak very
positively, and she sighed.

Why do you sigh V said Paul.

I don't know  I am a little afraid of
foreign connections, perhaps. I am not
sure that it is the wisest thing for you 
so many different ideas.' Paul went onto
point out that different ideas mattered
absolutely nothing at all, if people cared for
each other.

582

Perhaps they don't, for a few months,'
said Mrs. Percival, ' But Hfe is not tuned
to that pitch for ever, my dear Paul.'

Well, all that is not the question now,'
he said, a little impatiently. ' Tell me, do
you think I am a lunatic ? Do you think
she has the smallest liking at all for me ?'

I think she likes you very much indeed,'
said Mrs. Percival. ' Partly because her
father did, you understand. As to the
sort of liking you want, I need hardly say
that she doesn't know what it is. And I
am a little afraid that this behaviour of
Celia's will make her hate everything and
everybody English.'

Paul thought over these remarks without
making any reply. He thought perhaps,
in one thing, he was wiser than Mrs. Percival,
remembering certain looks from those
sweetest eyes,' which had answered his own.

Celia told me something she had done
for Antoinette,' Mrs. Percival went on presently.
' She was in Paris the other day,
you know. I could not understand what
she went for ; but it seems that she went
on purpose to settle this business. The
poor old Tour Blanche belonged to her ;
she has made some arrangement, some
alteration, and gives it up to Antoinette.
Perfectly right and fair, and a comfort to
herself, I should think, for she could never
wish to oYj there ao-ain. Most of the furniture
is hers, I believe ; but that could

easily Well, Paul, it is getting late,

and I don't think you are listening to me.'

Indeed I am. Does Mdlle. de 
know of this ?'

No, she knows nothing  nothing. Nor
will she know anything, I suppose, till this
dreadful marriage is over.'

And, now that I have told you, do you
mind ray staying a few days V

Stay by all means, if you like. But
don't make the complications worse by saying
anything now.'

You may trust me, Mrs. Percival.'

Very well. Remember that I do.'

There was a train to London from Wools-borough
before eight o'clock, generally known
as ' the early train,' and regarded as a tormenting
monster by all the good people of
Woolsborough Close. It was a fast train,
arriving in London before twelve, so that
convenience often got the better of comfort,
and filled its carriages with dignified clergy
and their families, even in such months as
November and December. Paul found that
Celia was going to London by this train ;
he also found that Canon and Mrs. Percival

had given no orders to be called earlier than
usual ; and on the whole it seemed that he
must see Celia off. So he left the house
quietly in the first glimmer of morning, and
walked down in a cold frosty fog to the
station, and was standing there on the steps
when Canon Percival's carriage drove up,
with Madame de Montmirail, her maid, and
quantities of luggage. It looked as if Celia
was leavings River Gate never to return ;
though, strange contradiction, she was about
to marry the only son of the house.

Celia was very much wrapped up, and
her long black veil was down ; she shivered
with the cold, even her voice trembling a
little as she said to Paul :

This is kind of you !'

Have you seen nobody else V Paul could
not help asking, as they paced together up
and down the cold, dark, dreary platform.

None of the Chapter, it appeared, were
going to town that morning.

Aunt Flo came to her door and kissed
me,' Celia answered. ' She is not so vicious,
poor old dear, if the Canon would let her
alone, and of course she is devoted to  to
Vincent. I made a mistake in coming down
here myself to break it to them. He ought
to have come ; he would have managed his
mother. I saw nobody else  except poor
Netta, of course. She was down ; she likes
getting up early, even in weather like this,
and she is also foolish enough to be rather
fond of me. Pauvre petite ! I wonder
what will become of her !'

Paul said nothing.

You said last night,' she went on,  that
you would do anything in the world forme
; but perhaps you don't mean it this

morning V

Paul felt himself flushing with a sudden
surprise. Perhaps not unnaturally, he
thought she was going to say something
about Antoinette.

Yes,' he said quietly. ' I do mean it. I
will do anything in the world for you.'

You are very trusting,' she said. ' I
don't think you have altered for the worse.
Well  will you come to my wedding V

He could answer nothing: but  ' I will'

It was a difficulty from which there was
only one way out ; a tolerably bad one, but
straight forward.

CHAPTER Xiii.

NEW STORIES BEGINNING.

Celia had told Paul that her marriage was
to be m a fortnight. The first week of that
time flew swiftly by ; he was at River Gate,
and his happiness was only interfered with
by an occasional chill of apprehension : what
would Antoinette think of that promise of
his ? Would she ever understand it all,
and forgive him ? He did not even confess
it to Mrs. Percival till the day he went
away, feeling quite sure that she would di s-
approve. On the contrary, the tears rushed
into her eves, and she did what she had no t

done since he was a schoolboy  she kissed
him.

His second week, at Red Towers, draofoed
terribly ; he had never known days so long-before.
Not that he was looking forward
to Celia's wedding, which he dreaded heartily ;
but the uncertainty of the future, the melancholy
weeks and months that might pass
before he saw Antoinette again  in fact,
before Mrs. Percival, who had grown rather
severe, would let him see her again  weighed
upon him with a leaden dreariness. He
could not persuade himself to go out shooting
; long walks were awful, with no company
but his thoughts ; reading was impossible
; music made him sadder and more
impatient  how he was to struggle through
that winter, he did not know ; it was a
question very hard to answer.

Meanwhile, the fogs had cleared away,

and up there at Holm Celia's wedding-day
dawned frosty and clear. Her marriage was
fixed for two o'clock in the afternoon. Paul
had arranged to go up by a train reaching
Charing Cross soon after one. He was very
restless, and got up that morning earlier
than usual, coming down to breakfast in his
favourite old study, where red rays of morning
sun were just beginning to shine in, and
a glorious fire was blazing. In spite of Mrs.
Percival's approval, Paul was not at all sure
now that he had done right in giving that
promise to Celia : sometimes it seemed too
frightfully unreasonable ; the thought of
shaking hands with Vincent, the picture
of the whole scene that rose in his mind,
were too repulsive. That morning, when
he came gravely and slowly downstairs,
and grunted some reply to Sabin's cheerful,
' Beautiful morning, sir !' he felt as if

a month of penal servitude would be preferable
to what he had to go through that day.

As he stood scowling at the fire, reflecting
on Celia's sins and his own misery,
wondering for the thousandth time whether
Antoinette, when she heard of his presence
at such a ceremony, would ever recover her
surprise, ever again believe in his love and
respect for her father, Sabin came in and
brought him a telegram. He looked at it
rather absently for a moment, for the
thought was just crossing his mind : ' Celia's
doings will be such a shock to hei", she
won't think of mine. How can it matter
to her after all what I do ?' and this horrid
suggestion was worse than any fear of her
anger.

However, here was this telegram, whose
contents soon, and for ever, drove all such
thoughts away.

 Please meet the 11.45 at Haddington.

Take her to 24, W Place. I have

telegraphed there. Timms knows. Take
her to the church, and then back. Do all
you can. Cannot possibly go with her.

F. Percival.'

Tell Ford to have the dog-cart ready in
ten minutes Paul shouted to Sabin. ' I
must catch the 9.30 train.'

After all, Ford was ready before his
master, and he has often boasted since of
that morning's drive ; he did not think the
six miles had ever been done in so short a
time before. But the Squire had said, soon
after they started : ' Look here, Ford ; if
the horse can't do this, he's useless, and you
may sell him tomorrow morning.'

Ford was not going to have the horse, a
special favourite of his, insulted like that,

and would have done the distance in a minute
less, if necessary. But his respect for his
master was not increased by such a remark.
He said afterwards to Barty that the Squire
was as ignorant and unreasonable about
horses as any woman, always excepting Miss
Darrell, to whose short reign Ford looked
back with a romantic regret.

The frosty sun might shine at Red
Towers, but in London it was dark and
foggy enough that day. The great dreary
church was lit with gas, early in the afternoon,
for Celia's wedding ; but the dim,
murky atmosphere of the outside world
came in and hovered there, making the
whole thing even more like a strange nightmare
dream.

Paul did not know what Antoinette's
thoughts were, though he obeyed Mrs. Percival's
telegram], met her and Timms at

Haddington, took her to Mrs. Percival
favourite lodofiiiQfs, came back an hour or
two later, and drove with her to the church,
where he left her and Timms in a seat near
the chancel, and walked back mechanically
to the door ; he knew that Celia expected
him to be in attendance upon her. He was
not afraid now of what Antoinette might
think of him, having a secret consciousness
that their feeling on the subject was the
same, though she had hardly spoken to him,
though the new shock made her face look
worn, and strained, and proud ; and he was
not even sure, after the first moment of the
meetings, whether there had been a smile in
her eyes as she caught sight of him.

The moments of that dream passed quickly

Vincent Percival and some friend of his
came in together, and he shook hands with

Paul with a sort of nervous grin, muttering
:

Awfully good of you !'

Then came Celia, followed by her maid ;
she had not chosen to ask anyone to her
wedding. She took Paul's arm without
looking at him, and they walked very fast
up the church together.

As they approached the chancel he felt
her start, and then she whispered, so low
that he hardly heard her :

Is that Antoinette V

He only answered, ' Yes ;' and so they
went up and stood in their place. The
clergyman appeared, and the service began
instantly.

That London curate, if he was not too
much used to odd experiences to think at
all, must have thought it rather a strange
wedding-party ; the singular beauty of the

VOL. III. 59

bride, the dark, handsome, melancholy face
of the young man who seemed to belong to
her, the eager and not very pleasant looks of
the bridegroom ; the two gazing ladies'-maids,
French and English, in the background
; the slight young girl in black, distinguished,
sad, who moved from her place
in the church after the service had begun,
and came up and stood near the bride, with
eyes that seemed to see no one but her.
They were the kind of people whose marriages
are not generally performed in a
corner. Perhaps the bride's grey dress was
something of an explanation, if anyone cared
to look for it.

In the vestry, afterwards, Marie Antoinette
Victoire 'de la Tour-Montmirail signed
her name as a witness after Celia's. While
she did it, the bride seemed to forget everything
else, even the jealous eyes of her

husband, as she gazed at the young bending
figure, the pale cheek with its flush of excitement.
Just five years since, in Paris,
Antoinette had stood beside her grandmother
at her father's marriage with Celia. The
Marquise drew her aside for a moment,
and spoke to her in French, very
low.

I did not expect this answer to my
letter,' she said to her.

Really ?' said the girl, with a sad little
smile. ' But one must show respect to those
one loves  and I must always be proud of
you.'

Je te remerciej petite,' said Celia, very
earnestly. Her eyes looked soft, almost
tearful, as she held both Antoinette's hands ;
in her manner there was real tenderness.
Perhaps, in marrying the only man she could
ever really love, she was learning more

592

lessons than one.  Will you come back to
our hotel ?' she said.

Antoinette shook her head. ' I am to

sleep in W Place to-night,' she said ;

and tomorrow I am going back to Mrs.
Percival. I do not think we shall see each
other again.'

 As you please,' murmured Celia. She
still lingered a moment, half wistfully, with
the child who had trusted her so long. But
the signing was all done, and she was conscious
that Vincent was impatient. * Goodbye,
then, dear child,' she said. They kissed
each other on both cheeks, and Celia, still
holding the girl's hand, turned to Paul and
drew her a little towards him.

Here, take care of her, Paul,' she
said.

Then she and Vincent were gone ; they
were hurrying together down the side aisle

of the church, out into the fog and cold, and
had already forgotten, perhaps, who and
what they left behind them, before Paul and
Antoinette had followed them half-way
down. In another minute, Antoinette too
was gone ; the carriages had driven away ;
and Paul was left, with Vincent Percival's
friend, standing on the steps of the church.
It had seemed better to let her go alone ; he
had felt her trembling, and had seen that
she was on the verge of tears. Old Timms
was not stupid, and would be very good to
her ; but in fact, Paul felt that he dared
not go.

That was what I call the right sort of
wedding,' said Paul's companion, approaching
him with a pleasant smile. ' If all
weddings were like that, they wouldn't be
so tiresome. Can you tell me who the
young French lady was ?'

 Mdlle. de Montmirail,' said Paul, rather
gruffly.

Ah ! the stepdaughter. She did not
disapprove, then. Captain Percival seemed
to think that all the relations were more or
less cut up.'

It is rather unusual ' Paul began ;

but then a discussion with this curious
stranger became a thing impossible. He
muttered something, lifted his hat, and
walked off down the street in a great hurry.

He stayed at an hotel that night, and spent
it chiefly walking about the room. He

took a cab to W Place in good time for

the morning train to Woolsborough. London
was as foggy and depressing as ever, but
there was a little pale sunshine in Antoinette's
face when she received him. He boldly put
Timms into another cab, and diove with
Antoinette himself to the station. It was

more possible to talk to her to-day than
yesterday ; she had lost something of that
little air of sad dignity which had been
grafted that year, somehow, on her happy
childishness, itself having something of a child,
something that never could last long without
the breaking-out of smiles. To Paul,
in its perfect naturalness and sincerity, it
was enchanting ; but more enchanting still
were the moments when it broke down.
Even in her deepest sorrow, the warm young
heart could find a smile ; and when she was
happiest, she had never been heartless.

How dark and cold !' she said, with a
shrug and shiver, as they drove through the
monotonous streets.

Yes,' Paul said ; ' it will be better at
Woolsborough. I dare say there's sunshine
down in Surrey, too.'

 Are you going back to-day V

Yes, in an hour or two. Will you tell
Mrs. Percival that I have done what I
could for you  all that she would let me V

Thank you,' she said. ' You have been
very good to me ;' and after a moment, she
looked round with a question in her eyes :
Did you think it wronor of me to wish to
be there ?'

Do you know,' said Paul, without
exactly answering this, * ever since I knew
that I was going to be there I have
wondered if you would think it wrong of
me. But I only went because she asked
me, and I could not refuse. I did not wish
to be there  till this morning.'

I thought,' said Antoinette, with a little
smile, but speaking so low that Paul could
hardly hear her, ' that she was his wife, and
that he would not wish the people who belonged
to him  who loved him  not to stay

near her, and take her part, whatever she
might choose to do. Of course I think it
is dreadful. I will say no more about that.
At first it seemed impossible that she could
do anything so strange, but then  oh, you
will not understand me  I seemed to have
a little dream of him in Paradise, and he
called her ' my Celia," and was very sorry
for her ; and you know, the one thing I
want is to do the things he would have
liked me to do.'

I do understand you,' said Paul ; and
then  sad waste of time  neither of them
spoke again till they turned into Padding-ton
Station.

They were only just in time for the train.
At the last moment Paul leaned in at the
window, and said to her :

May I come to Woolsborough before
very long V

Yes !' she said. ' But come soon,
very soon, or perhaps I shall be gone
away.'

The ready answer almost discouraged
him ; but then he remembered what an
innocent child she was ; and then, as he
looked at her, his eyes saying a good deal
that he had neither courage, conscience, nor
time to say, she flushed suddenly up to her
dark hair. She also looked doubtfully at
her hand, when it was released at the last
second from a grasp very unusual in the experience
of a young French lady.

It was not till late in the next summer
that Paul Romaine brought his bride home
to Red Towers. They had spent their
honeymoon at her own old home. La Tour
Blanche, where they will certainly spend a
good part of every year.

Perfect happiness, perfect trust and freedom,
have developed in Antoinette all the
brilliancy of her race, with its practical good
sense as well ; and if Paul is, and always
will be, much quieter and more thoughtful
than his wife, he is not less happy. She
knows all his old stories now : his father
and mother, his friend Colonel Ward, are
hers in the spirit. In spite of their differences,
hereditary and personal, these two
people understand each other to such a
degree that Mrs. Percival sighs, and
wonders whether they mean to be in love
all their lives.

The Clumber family flourishes still,
though Di has gone to the Paradise of good
dogs.

Jack came home from France to rejoin
his relations, and the white curly flock,
even old Dick, with a touch of rheumatism,

go out walking in the Surrey lanes
with Paul and Antoinette. There the
curious tourist may meet them, during
several months of the wear.

