CHAPTER I.

Page

THREE COUSINS I

CHAPTER n.

IN THE CHANCEL 20

CHAPTER HI.

CUT SHORT 35

CHAPTER IV.

LADY REDCLIFF 49

CHAPTER V.

HUGH . . . . . . . - '67

CHAPTER VI.

JOHN 83

CHAPTER VII.

A LOST CHILD lOI

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE

GERALD fane's HOUSE 122

CHAPTER IX.
Helen's house 139

CHAPTER X.

DOWN INTO THE VALLEY 1 54

CHAPTER XI.

AFTER THE RAIN 1 74

CHAPTER XII.

MR. Goodwill HAS HIS WAY . . .-194

CHAPTER XIII.

TEMPTATION 215

CHAPTER XIV.

A WILFUL WOMAN 244

CHAPTER XV.

WINTER 272

CHAPTER I.

THREE COUSINS.

LiNwooD St. John Is one of the quietest little
towns in the south of England. Its only
excitements are a county election, a fair once
In the year, and any special event In the
Eraser family. The Prayers have been squires
there for generations, and the London road
runs for a long way under the shadow
of their high red garden-wall, just outside the
town. Between clustering tree-tops one
catches a glimpse of weather-beaten, moss-grown
old chimneys ; and presently, at a turn

VOL. I. B

in the road, one looks back and sees the
great comfortable house itself, set squarely in
the midst of lawns and gardens, with sloping
meadows much shaded by trees, leading down
to a slow, quiet river.

Most of Linwood belongs to the Fraser,
as well as a good deal of land in the neighbourhood.
People supposed that Helen
Fraser, who 'for a long time was the Squire's
only child, would be a great heiress, but in
these calculations they reckoned without her
father.

Helen's mother died while she was still
very young, and she was about twelve years
old when Mr. Fraser married again. Then
came a large family of boys and girls ; then
came long bills, bad times, falling rents, and
difficulties threatening on all sides. Mrs.
Fraser was extravagant, she was also worldly
and ambitious, and she did not at all like to

meet these troubles by reducing her expenses.
Mr. Fraser was weak, and did not
insist ; so everything went on as usual, except
that the little Squire grew smaller, and paler,
and more careworn every day, and that
Helen, now a fat, placid, pretty creature of
two-and-twenty, with long eyelashes and
beautiful fair hair, calmly accepted the rich
man her stepmother found for her, and on a
certain day in April was to be married to Mr.
John Goodwill.

Even her stepmother was surprised,
though quite pleased and satisfied. She had
never got on very well with Helen, who was
not demonstrative, and took no Interest In
the younger children. Not that they had
quarrelled, for both were good-tempered, but
Mrs. Fraser always felt that Helen's marriage
would be a happy thing for the whole family.
They had met this man in the winter at

B 2

Torquay ; she had taken him up at first for
fun, then seeing his admiration of Helen, had
encouraged it partly for fun. But things grew
serious very soon. The man was rich ; there
was nothing against him ; he and Helen, who
was an odd girl in some ways, and fond of
talking like a Radical, got on remarkably well
together. At the end of a month all was
settled, and Mr. Fraser gave a reluctant consent
; he was fond of his eldest child, and
thought a good deal of his pedigree.

'' But in times like these, what can you
do ? " he said in apology to his nephew.
Captain North, who was disturbed, and
thought that Helen was throwing herself
away.

For many years Linwood had not had
such an excitement as this  the wedding of
its chief young lady. The inhabitants stood
about the wide, quiet street, in the light of

a yellow sunset, and watched the preparations
for a triumphal arch at the churchyard gate,
and stared with satisfaction at the Squire's
visitors as they drove from the station.

Far away from the bustle of arrivals and
from all signs of tomorrow's festivity, in a
solitary part of the garden, where a grand old
cedar stood at the end of a terrace-walk, and
overlooked the peaceful view of meadows, and
river, and distant hills, now in a glow of gold
and purple that deepened every moment,
Helen Fraser was having her last talk, as a
girl, with the girl-friend who had belonged
to her all her life.

Helen's head was resting on Theoo's shoulder,
and Theoo's arm was round her, and she was
looking down with a sad gravity in her dark
eyes which was hardly suited to the occasion.

My dear, what are you doing ?" she said.
'* Don't you care for him, then ? "

'* Sometimes I hate him," said Helen in a
whisper.

*' I wish I had not been kept away from you
all this time. It is too horrid. Actually to
think that I have never seen him ! But I can't
stand this, Nell, you know. It is not too late
to stop it, even now. Come along, we must
go to my uncle at once."

'' Nonsense, Theoo. Don't be silly ; it is a
great deal too late."

What ! when you say you hate the man ? "
said Theoo, frowning.

*' You should not take hold of one's words
like that. It is only sometimes, when he
bothers me, and I have to pretend I like it, or
when he is most particularly unlike Hugh and
all the rest of one's people. But he is a nice
satisfactory old thing, and tremendously kind, and
much better, I can tell you, than all your officers
that you think so agreeable. Yes, you always

used to be held up to me as such a pattern of
sense, but I am wiser than you now, Theoo."

She ended laughing, and glancing up into
her cousin's face ; but Theoo was not to be so
easily pacified.

'unlike one's own people!" she repeated
in low indignant tones. 'well, I supposed
something of the kind, but your Ideas on those
subjects are always so funny, that I thought
you cared for him in spite of that. You wrote
to me as if you cared for him, Helen. Do
you know, I think you are very wicked. You
are deceiving this man, and yourself, and
everybody else."

Except you, dear," said Helen, with provoking
amiability. " But you take things up,
and exaggerate, don't you see. He is quite
satisfied, so it doesn't matter, and when you
come to stay with me in the autumn, you will
see it is all right."

'' But why did you do it ? " said Theoo.

Oh, I don't know. How is one to answer
such an absurd question ? As if those things
could ever be explained."

But she did her best to explain, and Theoo
listened with thorough sympathy, though with
growls of impatience now and then. An old,
strong, constant tenderness kept her from
being very angry with her cousin, whatever
she might do. If these two girls had met now
for the first time, it is probable that they would
not have made friends. Theoo, seeing Helen's
weaknesses clearly, would have scorned them
and her; and Helen would have shrunk from
a person so different from herself in every way.
But they had been friends almost from their
cradles ; both their mothers had died early, and
they had been brought up almost together.
Theoo's father, too, had died young, and her lot
in life would have been a lonely and sad one,

if she had not been taken possession of by
Colonel North, the kindest of uncles, the
brother of her mother and of Helen's. His
wife, too, was dead, and he was left with one
son, a few years older than these girls, who
had gone Into the army and cared very much
for his profession.

While Helen and Theoo were children, they
were together a great deal at Lin wood House,
but soon after Mr. Fraser married again
Colonel North retired from the army, and
took Theoo to live with him entirely. He did
not like Mrs. Fraser, who on her part disapproved
of his way of educating Theoo, and
thus through the following years, though the
cousins still loved each other dearly, they were
not so much together, and grew up In very
different atmospheres.

They had now been separated for some
months by Colonel North's Illness. He had

been ill all the winter, and Theoo, his constant
companion, could hardly bring herself to leave
him, even for Helen's wedding. Perhaps her
coming from a house of suffering may partly
account for a certain sadness which weighed
on Theoo at this time. It was not all disappointment
at Helen's choosing this man, who
was evidently unworthy of her ; though that
was bad enough, and a subject of melancholy
puzzle to Helen's oldest friend. No explanation
could be really satisfactory. Helen might
not care for her stepmother, she might be
tired of living at home ; Mr. Goodall might
be the kindest and most generous man living,
his defects such as would only be minded by
foolish little prejudice. It was all very fine ;
these were not reasons, to Theoo's mind, for
marrying Mr. Goodall. No doubt he was
very fond of Nell, and Nell liked people to
be fond of her; no doubt she would be well

spoilt all her life, never be troubled with money-cares,
have every fancy carried out, be treated
like a lazy little princess ; all that would suit
her thoroughly. At the end of their talk Theoo
realised that Helen would not on any account
have the marriage broken off now, though
she could say that she sometimes hated Mr.
Goodall. And Theoo also realised, with a
mental shiver, that her old Helen was dead,
or perhaps had never existed, and that her own
high-flown ideas on these subjects had better
be kept to herself in future.

Presently some one came from the house
to call Helen, and Theoo let her go, and went
alone along the terrace, watching the western
sky. The sadness of coming twilight seemed
to make it right to be sad. Theoo had taken
off her hat, for her head ached with vexation,
and she stood there against the yellow sky,
tall and straight and; graceful, her head lifted,

and her dark eyes looking away into the
distance. The curves of her mouth and nose
were very handsome, and very proud and
scornful ; her cousin once said that he never
saw so much scorn in any profile as in Theoo's.
Her front face was much more amiable, partly
from the beauty and softness of her eyes, and
it was so at this moment, when Helen no
longer needed her sympathy, and had gone
away and left her to a solitary fit of disgust.

*' Well, Theoo, my dear," said a man's voice,
soft and grave, and her cousin, Hugh North,
came down the terrace steps and joined her.
'* Are you hating anybody ? You don't look
so cheerful as you ought on this happy
occasion."

I don't know about the happiness," said
Theoo sorrowfully. '' Hate ? Oh yes, I hate
the world, and marriage, and men, and women,
and money, and all the consequences."

*' A good wide sphere," said Hugh, smiling
faintly. He was fair, stiffly handsome, and
very seldom amused. ** I met Helen just now.
Has she given you these nasty feelings ? "

As Theoo did not answer, he went on after
a minute :

** Is she offensively happy, or what is the
matter with her 1 "

Everything  nothing," said Theoo impatiently.
" She makes me miserable, and
I think, Hugh, you might have stopped this
at the beginning."

'what! this marriages It was no affair
of mine. I did what I could, you know. I
said something to Uncle Dick, but as he was
inclined to make the best of it, of course I
could say no more. I would not vex myself,
Theoo, if I were you ; she will do very well, I
dare say."

" You don't feel about it as I do."

'* Perhaps not. It Is a pity to be too sentimental
on these occasions. They come in the
course of nature, and we may as well take them
easy. I have heard of much worse marriages
than this of Helen's. The man is a stodgy
sort of man, and thinks a good deal of his
money ; but he's solvent, he's respectable, and
appears to be good-tempered. Helen doesn't
dislike him, does she ? "

*' Could she marry him if she did ? ' said
Theoo.

The question was asked as much of herself
as of Hugh. She did not feel Inclined just then
to answer for Helen in any way, and of course
she could not tell Hugh what Helen had said.

" No, I don't think she would," said her
cousin, after a moment's consideration. "We
may trust Helen, I think, to follow her own
inclinations. So don't distress yourself. You
may find the man better than you expect."

'' He Is not a gentleman'' said Theoo, with
so much pain In her voice that Captain North
smiled again.

'' My dear, excuse me, that Is Helen's affair,
and you will be wiser If you accept the Inevitable,
and don't talk about It. If you pull
a long face tomorrow, it will be unkind to
Helen, and rude to Mrs. Fraser."

The effect of these grave words was to
make Theoo smile and soften suddenly. Captain
North looked at her with approval, which from
another man might have been affectionate admiration.


Men never understand," she said. '' I
will just tell you this. I think we all have
something low and something high in our
natures, and we may follow one or the other.
I think Nell But I won't say any more."

*' Better not. I would rather you kept
clear of metaphysics. And as to your hard

judgment of Nell, I'll observe, Theoo, that a
girl may have a low motive for marrying
a duke, and a high motive for marrying a
tradesman."

"Yes, if the tradesman was poor," said
Theoo. " Do you think I am so hard on Nell,
though ? Poor dear ! I didn't mean to be.
Don't let us talk about It any more ; only please
do me this favour, Hugh. If you ever see
any signs of my following Nell's example,
please lock me up in some safe place till I
have recovered my senses."

You promise, then," said Hugh very
gravely, looking at her under his sleepy eyelids,
" never to marry without my consent."

Yes ; I think you are a good judge of
people. I think I may safely promise that,"
said Theoo. " Good-bye."

She went away towards the house, and
Captain North looked after her till she was

hidden among trees. Theoo, who from her
childhood had regarded him as a kind-elder
brother, sometimes prosy and always particular,
would have been perfectly astonished at
the thoughts and calculations in his mind ashe
watched her that evening. He was thinking
of a certain wish of his father's, which at
first had not been his own, so that he had let
time pass on, and he was now thirty-one and
Theoo twenty-three, without any sign of change
in their relations to each other. His father

knew that he was not in love with Theoo ; he
may perhaps have had a story of his own,
which was not confided to his father ; but
Colonel North knew, and so did he, that he
could offer her an affection, already existing
and strengthening every year, which might do
almost as well. Theoo, with her high-flown
ways, was this quiet Hugh's model of a woman ;
she was a little wild, and very obstinate, and

VOL. I.  c

had been a tomboy in her younger days ; but
he rather enjoyed all that, which his father had
certainly encouraged, and quite understood the
gentleness underneath. He had many safe
and excellent opinions, one of which was that
cousins ought not to marry ; but yet the idea
of Theoo's marrying any one else was hardly
bearable.

Theoo was so used to him and his fidgety
ways, which she and her uncle often laughed
at together, that she would not have been
surprised at his anxious consideration of her
future, much as his conclusion would have
shocked and startled her. Captain North felt
very serious that evening. He did not think
his father would live long, and then what was
to become of Theoo ? It was true that she had
a grandmother, Lady Redcliff, who might not
object to having her for a time, but she was a ,
horrid, disagreeable old woman, like all the

Redcliffs. Theoo's father, George Meynell,
should be excepted. He was Lord RedcHff s
younger son. He ran through all his money,
lived a wild life, and died early in consequence
of his wildness ; but he was so charming that
everybody loved him. Hia death broke his
father's heart, and thoroughly soured his
mother. She quarrelled with her elder son's
wife. He, too, was now dead, and the present
Lady Redcliff and her children saw nothing of
the grandmother, who had now lost every one
she cared for, and lived a savage, solitary life
alone in London. The thought of her, as
Theoo's only resource, was very distressing to
Captain North. Yet he could not make up
his. mind just yet to ask Theoo to marry him.
Perhaps, not being a stupid man, he felt some
doubt of her answer.

c 2

IN THE CHANCEL.

A WISE woman wrote once, in a letter to
somebody who was going to be married :
Congratulation on such occasions seems tome
a tempting of Providence. The triumphal-procession
air, which, In our manners and
customs, Is given to marriage at the outset 
that singing of Te Deem before the battle
has begun  has, ever since I could reflect,
struck me as somewhat senseless and somewhat
Impious. If ever one Is to pray, if ever one
Is to feel grave and anxious, If ever one Is
to shrink from vain show and vain babble,

surely it is just on the occasion of two human
beings binding themselves to one another, for
better and for worse, till death part them ; just
on that occasion which it is customary only to
celebrate with rejoicing, and congratulations,
and trousseaux, and white ribbon ! "

Theoo Meynell did not suppose herself to
have a deep, or clever, or reflective mind, but
these were very much the feelings which went
to sleep with her the night before Helen's
wedding, and woke with her the next morning.
She sighed, and wished to go to sleep again,
but her maid would not allow her to do that ;
so with a few yawns and groans she got up,
and soon found that in broad daylight, with
bells ringing, and sun shining, and a lovely
bridesmaid's dress hanging in the wardrobe, it
was impossible to keep up these feelings of
cynical philosophy. Everything and everybody
seemed so happy, though Helen Fraser

was going to be married to John Goodall, that
Theoo, in spite of herself, began to feel happy
too. She never thought much of her appearance,
but it was satisfactory know that she
was looking particularly well that morning.
Combe said so, and Theoo saw that she was
right. Captain North need not have warned
her against pulling a long face on this joyful
occasion, for she did not feel at all inclined todo
so, and when Helen came to her room a
little later, she received her with all the cheerful
affection that could have been expected.

'that's a dear old Theoo," said Helen, who
was in her usual placid spirits. " You look
quite jolly this morning. Do you know,
Combe, last night in the garden she was
scolding me like anything ? "

"You don't seem much the worse for it,
}Iiss Helen'' said Combe, who had come to
Theoo as her nurse twenty years ago, and had

stayed with her ever since. She was an important
person in Theoo's life ; she told her
home-truths, and knew all her tempers. Once
she said that she would die for Theoo, and there
came a time when she was not far from proving
the truth of her words. Mrs. Combe was an
aristocrat in her notions, with a supreme contempt
for money and all possessions which had
not descended at least from a grandfather.
She could not for some time get over the shock
of Helen's marrying a man who had made his
money in pottery works. " It's a style of thing
we're not accustomed to," said Combe. " Not
for millions and billions would my young lady
so demean herself."

Theoo dear," said Helen, when Combe was
gone away, "you hope I shall be happy, don't
you ? And you know quite well that my being
married will never make the smallest difference
to you ? "

"How could it?" said Theoo. 'eyes, I
hope you will be very, very happy."

'' I believe you will like him a great deal
better than you expect."

'' So Hugh told me last night."

Did he ? What a good old fellow ! I
wonder if he would care to come and stay with
us some day. You might come at the same
time, and then you can amuse each other. I
shall want you this summer, Theoo, or early in
the autumn."

*' I can't leave Uncle Henry so long as he is
so ill."

'' Oh, he must get better. What a pity he
can't be here to-day ! "

'' Yes, a dreadful pity ! "

I believe he and John would get on
together ; they are both so straightforward.
Uncle Henry is simple, like John, and hasn't so
many prejudices as some people."

You don't hate John this morning ? "

No, not this morning. I am rather In a
good temper," said Helen with a pretty smile.
By the way, there's one bore I must tell you
about. You know I told you that John had a
friend, a nice clergyman, who was going to be
his best man. Well, in his letter this morning
he says that Mr. Langton is ill, and can't come,
and he must bring somebody else Instead."

That doesn't much matter, does It ?" said
Theoo Indifferently.

*' Don't you think so ? You are the person
most concerned, for he will have to take you Into
breakfast, I suppose, and that was why I
told John most particularly that he must bring
his very nicest friend."

Thanks ; you need not have bothered
him," said Theoo, smiling.

'' Oh yes, I thought It was best at once to
give him the right impression of you. But I

am afraid he has made rather a mess of it ;
men are so stupid. This is what he says :
'When I got Langton's letter I was at my
wit's end, for I have very few friends, especially ,
in London. But this morning I happened to
meet young Fane, a colliery manager in our
neighbourhood'" here Helen stole a glance at
her cousin, who looked quite unconcerned,
'and I asked him to come down with me tomorrow.
He made some difficulties, but at last
consented. He is a nice boy, and I hope you
will like him ; though of course we should both
have preferred Langton.' Fane is a good
name," said Helen after a moment's pause,
"but I suppose a colliery manager can't be
anybody. I shall know all those terms better
presently, though. Do you mind, Theoo ? "

Not in the very least," said Theoo
earnestly. '' I shall never see the man again ;
what difference can it possibly make to me '. "

Helen looked at her rather oddly.

'' None, of course' she said after a moment.
'' But you will be conscious of his existence for
this one day, won't you ? "

She went away smiling, a little piqued by
Theoo's grand indifference, and wishing, as she
did sometimes, that her pet cousin was more
like other girls. But then she would not be
old Theoo, with all her oddities and originalities,
finest when she was most absurd.

'' I hope I shall live to see Theoo in love,"
thought Helen. *' Her Ideas about It are so
splendid  but the man will want a little
courage, poor fellow ! "

Helen was In no agitation about herself, that
Important day. She made no fuss, or hurry, or
delay ; she looked very pretty and quite contented,
and kissed her stepmother and the
children with placid sweetness. Mrs. Fraser
had certainly tried to do all honour to Helen's

marriage. She had asked half the county,
and did not show the smallest outward sign
of being ashamed of Mr. Goodall. She
smiled agreeably on all Linwood, which had
assembled in the street leading to the church,
with flags, and flowers, and welcomes, and
wishes of joy. The sun shone on the crowed
in its Sunday clothes, on the children in blue
and white who were to throw flowers in the
bride's path. All the rejoicing seemed to be
very hearty, for though people rather disliked
Mrs. Fraser, and laughed a little at the
Squire, they all liked Helen, who had a
pleasant manner with them, and knew how
to admire their babies.

The church was old, and low, and dark,
with heavy pillars, and high pews blocking
up the nave. The chancel was of a later
date, a high raised space with three or four
great perpendicular windows which, having

lost their ancient glory of colour except a
few fragments, let In a full flood of sunshine
on the wedding party. This was where
Theoo first saw her new cousin and his friend,
as she, with the other bridesmaids, followed
Mr. Fraser and Helen up the church. John
Goodall looked much more nervous than his
bride. He was a tall young man, rather fat,
and very pale, with a short reddish beard and
keen, honest dark eyes. He had an expression
of the deepest and most anxious solemnity,
which cleared up a little when Helen
was actually standing by his side, and the
old rector was beginning the service.

Theoo was glad to feel that she rather
liked him, though he gave her a trembling
Inclination to smile. It appeared to her that
the man was very fond of Helen, and would
think a great deal about making her happy.
And though he looked solid, he did not look

vulgar. Theoo perceived that Hugh was
right. Though of course very different from
Hugh, John Goodall was not of an absolutely
inferior creation.

Theoo had a free way of looking about
her at the most inappropriate moments, and
not with quick slight glances, but with a grave
deliberate stare, which no person could encounter
without feeling it. Mrs. Fraser had
often complained of this trick, one. of the
results, she said, of Colonel North's system
of no education, and copied exactly from him.
But Theoo unfortunately never troubled herself
about Mrs. Fraser's opinion while she was a
girl, and Mrs. Fraser had now given up as
hopeless any idea of training her to better
manners, so she stared about her as usual
at Helen's wedding, noticing in a vague sort
of way the people's dresses, the effects of light
and shade, the beauty of Helen's fair bent

head under her veil, the sturdy breadth of
John Goodall's shoulders. She was in one
of her most absent moods, but it was a tender
mood too ; she did not look at all scornful ;
her face was full of gentle thought, not exactly
arising from the service, of which she did not
hear a word. She was thinking of Nell's
childhood and her own, pitying and loving
her cousin, perhaps all the more because she
had disappointed her. She was thinking also
of their talk last night, and pitying Mr.
Goodall, and wishing that Nell had not said
those things about him. If the man had been
much worse than this, surely Nell, having
promised to marry him, ought not to have
allowed herself to see or mention any defects
in him. Poor Nell! Everybody does not see
things in the same way, and it now seemed
possible that she might be happy after all.
Many people in the church that day looked

at Theoo as much as at the bride. Theoore was
something so noble and unconscious in the
way she stood  closer to Helen than any of
the others  the flowers drooping carelessly
from her hands, her head held very erect,
with her own little air of spirit and splendour.
One of the lookers-on said afterwards that
she '* took away his breath." Another, that
she was **a magnificent young woman." Theoo
thought of nobody's opinion. She stood a
little sideways in the chancel, in a broad
sunbeam, and looked about her with the
absent, deliberate coolness which so deeply
irritated Mrs. Fraser. But the Fates were
lying in wait for Theoo, and her happy unconsciousness
did not last long. She had been
gazing Intently at one person in the little
group near her, and had just roused herself
to wonder who he could be. She certainly
had never seen him before, at Linwood orin

the county. He was a very tall young
man, taller than the bridegroom, with a dark
pale skin, brown hair cut close, and a thin line
of moustache which did not hide a rather
firmly-set mouth. The upper part of his face
was very good, with large, handsome, hazel
eyes. He was thin, and looked a little worn,
a little ill-tempered, and very like a gentleman.
As Theoo looked, his rather tired eyes were
lifted suddenly and fixed upon her. It was
a moment before she, at least, knew how
straight and how intently they were staring
at each other. Then she slowly dropped her
eyes, her whole face and air became scornful,
and during the rest of the service she looked
about her no more.

In the vestry afterwards, she found herself
being introduced to Mr. Goodall, who grasped
her hand with quite unnecessary warmth. She
was also made acquainted with his best man,

VOL. I. D

who bowed and looked shy. They had both
written their names as witnesses of the
marriage. There they stood for the world
to see, on the same sheet of the register 
Theodosia Meynell, and Gerald Fane.

CUT SHORT.

Theoo of course knew a great many of the
wedding guests, and had plenty to do in
helping Mrs. Fraser to entertain them. She
always liked old people, and she was deep
in talk with an old lady about her dogs,
having apparently forgotten that there was
anybody besides this old lady in the world,
and not at all knowing that most people had
gone in to breakfast, when she became aware
that somebody was standing behind her, and
looked up hurriedly once more into the face
of Mr. Fane.

D 2

Oh, are they gone ? " she said, getting
up. "I think  will you take Mrs. Campbell,
please ? "

No, dear Miss Meynell, certainly not,"
said Mrs. Campbell with an approving smile.
Nothing so unorthodox. Here is my old
friend Colonel Fox coming to take care of
me.

Theoo was satisfied, and gave herself upto
Mr. Fane without further difficulty.

** I really forgot," she said, as they went
into the dining-room. " Dogs are such a
nice subject, and Mrs. Campbell has seven in
the house. I don't know, though, whether
it is good to scatter one's affections in that
way."

** Do you centre yours in one dog .- " said
Mr. Fane.

Yes. One dog and one horse. I have
never been allowed to have any more."

But then it is so horrid if the one dies,"
he said.

"It puts them more on the footing of
human friends, and that is good," said Theoo.
*' Why shouldn't we grieve for them ? They
give us pleasure enough ; more, I think, than
human friends do  dear faithful things ! "

No ; human friends are the best, just
because they change, and disappoint one,"
said Mr. Fane. '' And after all they may
live as long as we do ourselves ; the dogs
and horses can't, so they are a certain grief
and if you have only one of each "

What do you mean . " said Theoo, looking
at him earnestly.

It seemed as if he did not dare to give
her more than a glance back.

What do I mean '. " he repeated in a
low voice.

You seem to think that one's friends

ought to change, and disappoint one. I don't
understand."

Nor do I. Only they always do, so it
is as well to be hardened. Dogs spoil one
with their faithfulness. I suppose that may
have been what I meant," he said, looking
down and smiling. He was by no means so
unconscious as Theoo, and had at that moment
caught a curious amused look from the bride,
whose interest in herself and her husband
was not so great as to prevent her from
watching her cousin.

Gerald Fane was quite quick enough to see
and feel the whole state of the case. Since he
had taken Theoo away from Mrs. Campbell, he
had begun to be happy ; till then his whole
time had been spent in regretting that he had
come. Why could not John Goodall have
found one of his own friends ? Gerald had had
no idea that the excellent fellow was not marrying

in his own line of life, and he had come for
fun, for adventure, for a new experience among
a new set of people. Circumstances had made
the poor wretch as proud as Lucifer, and, of
course, he had not been half an hour in Lin-wood
before he found himself in a false position,
and was inwardly swearing at his own foolishness.
As the people came into the church he
saw that they were people of his own sort, and
not of GoodalFs ; but, of course, they could only
regard him as belonging to Goodall. But then
Theoo came and stood there, and no one else,
not even himself, could be thought of afterwards.
Now he was sitting close to her, and it
was their duty to talk to each other. He could
only talk nonsense, and the worst of it was she
would not be satisfied. He did not want to
talk at all, only to look at her, but that could
not be, and perhaps it was only a long absence
from civilised society which put such a daring

thought into his head. It was a good thing
after all that she took him quite au s4rie%ix,
and went on with the argument.

'rare friends so bad as that? It is a sad
way of looking at it," she said. "When I said
that dogs gave one more pleasure, I think I
meant that one's dog really belongs to one, in a
way that no human friend can. But it is very
sad to say that one's friends always change, and
disappoint one. Sometimes they do  now and
then."

"About those things we all speak from our
own experience," said Mr. Fane. " I have no
doubt your friends are faithful to you."

I am fortunate, then," said Theoo, half to
herself.

She was silent for a moment, and then
turning away from him, began to talk to somebody
on the other side of her.

There were no speeches, and Helen very

soon went away to change her dress. Theoo
followed her, and the bride found an opportunity
to say, with a mischievous laugh :

*' Well, Theoo, how do you like the
manager ? "

'who is the manager?" said Theoo.

Why, Mr. Fane. I told you he was
manager of a colliery."

'' I forgot. Are they all like that ? "

I don't suppose they are all so good-looking,"
said Helen, much amused.

'* Is he good-looking ? He talks nicely
about dogs. I must ask him presently whether
he likes horses. Perhaps in some ways they
are better than dogs."

"Well, my dear, don't talk to me about
them now. I am not a young man, and I don't
want to be amused. I never in my life saw
you look so handsome as you did in church,
Theoo."

'' Did I ? I'm very sorry. I did not mean
to talk about dogs, but what I meant was, are
all the managers gentlemen ? "

'' I don't know, my dear ; ask Mr. Fane
himself," said Helen laughing. " Now here's
mamma, so we can't say any more, and you
are no good to-day, Theoo. I never saw you so
dreamy."

Gerald Fane, meanwhile, was standing
about downstairs, keeping apart from other
people-and wondering how much more he
should see of Miss Fraser's beautiful bridesmaid.
There was to be a dance that evening,
and he had been asked to stay the night. He
wondered how many times she would dance
with him. As he stood with his eyes on the
ground, glanced at curiously by different people,
but taking no notice of them in return, he was
resolving that to-day and to-night, for once, he
would be happy. He would forget all the

horrors and troubles of which life was so full,
and would think it was six years ago, before he
knew the meaning of hard work and anxiety.
She of course knew nothing of his position.
Why should she ? Perhaps they would never
meet again ; it would be best not, as far as he
was concerned, but that thought interfered
horribly with present enjoyment. Then
Gerald, who was not without a sense of the
ridiculous, smiled at himself for a hopeless fool,
and thought how all these people would laugh,
and laugh with reason, if they knew that a stray
pauper like himself had fallen desperately in
love with Miss Meynell.

Then the ladies came downstairs, and the
carriage drove up, and there was a great confusion.
John Goodall came up to young Fane,
wished him good-bye, and thanked him in a
jolly sort of manner, nearly wringing his hand
off "We shall meet again in the Midlands,"

said John cordially. Gerald Fane forgot to be
grateful, and wished that the Midlands were in
the middle of Africa.

As for Theoo, she took no notice whatever
of the best man, standing rather dismally in
the background, but fulfilled all her own duties
of saying good-bye, and flinging rice, with an
odd mixture of energy and dreaminess, and
then, when they had driven off and all was
over, suddenly turned round to her cousins
North, and went away with him into
the library.

The room was large, and dark, and still,
with small red flames dancing in the grate.
A sense of peace and rest came over Theoo ;
the quietness was so pleasant to her that she
forgot at first to ask Hugh what he wanted.
She leaned back in a large arm-chair, and
smoothed with both hands the creamy satin
and lace of her gown.

"Do you like these clothes?" she said.
*' Am I to wear it all day ? What is the
matter, Hugh ? "

Captain North was not looking at her or
her gown. His eyes were fixed on the hearth-rug
at his feet ; he was frowning a little, and
stroking his thick moustache.

Well, Theoo," he said, " every one else is
in such a fuss that I thought I had better
tell you myself. Did you see  just before
breakfast  they brought me a telegram '. "

Hugh ! " She started from her chair and
came towards him, turning as white as her
gown.

She terrified Captain North, who thought
he was breaking bad news most considerately.

Don't be frightened," he said. '' Don't
look like that, Theoo. It's only that I don't
like asking you to come away to-day. In fact
I don't think I ought. It will spoil the party,

but I couldn't somehow go myself without
telling you."

Uncle Henry Is worse?" said Theoo, seeing
by his calmness that her first fear was
not true. " May I see the telegram ? "

It was crumpled up In her cousin's hand.
He unfolded It, and read the few words :

Colonel North worse. Better come by

next train."

'' From Dr. Page," he said. '' Well, you
see, Theoo, I shall have to start In three-quarters
of an hour  and of course one doesn't know 
and I really think you had better stay quietly
here till you hear from me. I rather wish now
that we had not both left him, but that's no
use. You will do as I ask you '. You and
Combe couldn't possibly be ready In three-quarters
of an hour."

Oh, Indeed. I wish I hadn't left him,"
cried Theoo In bitter grief. *' I never would,

for any one but Helen. You don't think I
could stay here and dance and make a fool of
myself all the evening, while he will be wanting
me and asking for me ? You know he will.
Three-quarters of an hour! I could be ready
in one, and I shall be thankful to get away
from this wedding. I think weddings are the
most dreadful, miserable inventions "

'' Very well," said Captain North gravely.
But if you are really going, give Combe as
much time as you can. I will tell Mrs. Fraser."

So the poor best man, lingering in the hall,
only caught one glimpse of his lady as she
came out of the library and went away upstairs,
without even a look in his direction.
Presently one of the numerous Fraser cousins
came and talked to him, and carried him off
into the garden, and involved him in a game
of tennis. Later in the day he heard quite
casually that Miss Meynell was gone. People

were giving plenty of reasons and particulars,
but these were nothing to him. She was
gone ; everything was a vain show ; and
through the long tiresome evening, though
he danced and talked like every one else, he
could only wish over and over again that
he had never come to Linwood.

LADY REDCLIFF.

Lady Redcliff was a very fierce little old
woman Indeed. She wore a black cap, and
believed In nothing. She had had a few
friends, who remained faithful to her till she
was over sixty ; but after that they dropped
off one by one, being quite unable to bear
with the increasing sharpness of her tongue.
Her remarks were sometimes so violently
personal as to madden the meekest subject of
them, and these are not the days of meekness.
In these days the youngest and smallest people
have their rights, and the oldest and most

VOL. I.

important grandmothers must respect them,
unless they wish to be met with open rebellion.

The only person to whom Lady Redcliff
behaved decently was her granddaughter,
Theoo Meynell, and this was not because of
any of her nice qualities, but because
she had what Lady Redcliff called, with satisfaction,
'' the Meynell temper." All sorts of
horrid legendary old Meynells looked flashing
out from Theoo's eyes sometimes, when she
was angry and scornful ; and these moments
were "the grandmother's delight, though the
anger was often against herself. She enjoyed
telling Theoo, whenever she was angry, about
an old Lord Redcliff who killed his French
cook because a game-pie was burnt, and above
all things he loved game-pie.

He ought to have been hanged," said
Theoo.

'' Oh dear, no ; people were not such fools

then," said Lady Redcliff. ''He got a better
cook, and lived to eat thousands more pies."

When Theoo showed the strength of her
will in some decided way, Lady Redcliff might
remark :

** There was a woman in our family once
who wanted to marry a man ; but he preferred
somebody else who had more money. I
believe he liked Theodosia best, however 
she was a namesake of yours, you perceive 
but that had nothing to do with it ; he was
going to marry the other one. Well,' very
early on the wedding morning, Theodosia
poisoned the woman, or chloroformed her, or
something ; dressed herself in white and went
to church, and married the man in spite of
everybody. Nobody ever stops the Meynells
from having their own way. Nobody wanted
that girl to marry your father  certainly I
didn't  but he chose that she should, I can

E 2

c<S/rY OF

never Imagine why. A milk-sop, Calvinistic
set of people "

'' Hush, grand mamma ! " said Theoo.

'* Why am I to hush ? " said the old woman
sharply.

'* Because if you talk about my mother's
family you will drive me out of the house."

'* You can go if you like," said Lady
Redcliff; but she took up a newspaper, and
said no more just then. Presently, after
glancing once or twice over the top of it,
she muttered half to herself: 'there's not
much North blood in you, any way. That
stupid Redcliff and his brothers and sisters
are not Meynells at all ; they're Warwick
all through, and that's skim milk turned
sour."

It was a Sunday afternoon in August ; hot
and weary everywhere, hottest and weariest
in Lady Redcliff 's stuffy back drawing-room,

where she liked to sit all day with doors and
windows closed. The look-out over roofs
and a few dusty trees had not much cheerfulness
in it. Lady Redcliff, pinched and
yellow, was wrapped in a large black shawl.
With her long nose and trembling bony
lingers, she looked like the horrid old spider
who had caught a poor young fly  Theoo 
in her web. Theoo herself was all in black,
too, and looked pale and languid ; she
wanted fresh air for mind and body, and
the book she was trying to read did not
interest her much, for her eyes often wandered
up, past the heavy shadow of curtains, to
those dingy tree-tops that hardly stirred,
and the faint far-away blue of sky behind
them.

"You have plenty of faults without being
a humbug," said Lady Redcliff. "What's the
use of pretending to be good, and to read

sermons, when you are raging against me in
your heart all the time ? "

I am doing neither one thing nor the
other," said Theoo quietly. *' It is that book
on South Africa."

'* Are you going to South Africa to get
away from me ? Never mind, I shall die soon,
and then you can go where you like."

I am not obliged to stay with you now,"
said Theoo.

'* Thank you ; that is a very pretty grateful
speech indeed. And of course I am obliged
to have you, if you choose to stay. Your uncle,
who announced so finely that he was going
to take your father's place, and so forth, and
who kept you away from me for years because
he did not think me pious enough to speak
to such a treasure, having chosen to die and
leave you dependent on any one who likes
to take up the great responsibility  It has

become my duty, has it, to sacrifice all my
peace and comfort to you ? But of course you
are not obliged to stay with me a day longer
than you like. Good gracious ! ' said Lady
Redcliff, throwing the newspaper into a corner,
'' you are a little too cool, Miss Theoo  you
really are."

'' I did not mean it in that way," said
Theoo, now as red as she had been pale
before.

Don't make excuses ; I hate them. I
am neither deaf nor blind, nor an idiot, and
I understood you perfectly well. I think your
precious uncle brought you up abominably, and
did his best to spoil everything that was fine
in your character. And what he meant by
making all those professions, and leaving you
nothing after all, is certainly a tremendous
puzzle. I should like to know how you explain
it to yourself."

Theoo got up, and walked towards the door.

*' Stop a minute," said her grandmother.
'' Before you lose your temper completely, let
me give you one piece of advice. Follow your
cousin's example, and marry a snob. Any snob
you like ; I'll give you my blessing and my
diamond necklace. But listen ; if you marry
Hugh North, Til give you nothing  nothing."

'* Grandmamma, what makes you so dreadful
this afternoon ? " said the girl almost imploringly.


Then, with a certain noble sweetness, she
went up to the poor angry old woman, and laid
her hand on her shoulder.

Don't touch me," said Lady Redcliff,
snatching herself away. " I hate the Norths,
and you know it. If George had married anyone
else, he might have been alive now.
What business had she to die, and leave him
to go his own way ? "

*' Hush ! you forget ; you are talking of my
mother," said Theoo.

'' I don't forget. You never let me forget
anything disagreeable."

*' Look here, grand mamma ; you don't
really want to hurt me, I know, but you do
hurt me when you talk like that of my Norths,
and especially of Uncle Henry, whom I love
with all my heart'"

*' Why shouldn't you be hurt as well as
other people ? I have been hurt often enough,
and by people who pretended to love me," said
her grandmother. "Don't be a fool! Why
didn't your dear uncle leave you anything ? "

I never thought or expected that he
would," said Theoo.

Every one else did, then."

No, grand mamma : not people who knew
about his affairs."

" Rubbish ! He had plenty of money to do

what he liked with. He had a great deal
more than his sisters, and they were not badly
off, but they married men who spent their
money, and Henry North was a miser. That
Fraser man muddled away every penny of his
first wife's money, and your father spent It
rationally," said Lady Redcliff with an odd
grimace. '' But that's nothing to the point.
What I say Is, don't delude yourself with the
idea that your uncle was a poor man. He
lived quietly enough, to be sure, down therein
that hole, but all the Norths are misers 
your Norths, as you call them. I don't think it
Is a property to be proud of."

'there are a few things you don't know,
grand mamma," said Theoo earnestly.

'' Are there, really ? " said Lady Redcliff,
who was talking herself Into a better humour.
'Well, I never pretended to be as knowing:
as you."

Uncle Henry may have had plenty of
money to begin with ; I believe he had,"
said Theoo. '' But there was a man he liked
very much, a good deal younger than himself,
and of course his junior in the service ; but
he was in his regiment for some time, and they
were friends to quite an unusual extent, you
know. This man left the army, and went
In for some speculations. He persuaded Uncle
Henry to put a great deal of money into
them, and then he turned out all wrong, and
swindled everybody who had trusted him.
Uncle Henry lost much more than any one
else, but It was owing to him that the man
was let off easily, because he used to like him
so much, and did not believe It was quite
all his fault. So it was hushed up, and Hugh
believes the man Is alive still, but he does
not know what has become of him."

" Swindling comfortably on somewhere, no

doubt," said Lady Redcliff. '* It would have
been more philanthropic to punish him."

*' So Hugh thinks. He does not agree
with his father about that ; but it happened
long ago, when he was young, so he had
nothing to do with it. He hates the man,"
said Theoo in soft thoughtful tones. '' I never
saw him look so angry as when he told me
about him the other day. He hates to think
of Uncle Henry being taken in, and it is a
horrid story, certainly."

Quite thrilling, but I wouldn't tell it
much, if I were you," said Lady Redcliff
This wicked world laughs at people who
are neither clever, wise, nor hard, you know.
There, don't flash ; your little tempers tire me.
Where does your cousin get his money from,
then ? I know he has a good deal of his own."

*' His mother had a fortune, and it was
settled upon him," answered Theoo.

'' His mother's relations must have been
canny people," said Lady Redcliff. '' Saints
like Henry North generally manage to have
no settlements at all."

I suppose you hate the Norths because
they are good," said Theoo.

She had walked away to the window, and
was standing in the shadow of the curtains
looking up at the sky.

And is that the reason why you love
them, you little Pharisee ? " sneered Lady
Redcliff.

Something in the look of her eyes, fixed
on the tall beautiful figure of the girl standing
there, seemed curiously to belie her way of
talking, and Theoo, perhaps, knew her grandmother
well enough to feel this, though she did
not look towards her in return.

'At any rate," she said, '' I suppose I love
them because they have been so good to me'*

'well, that's true, and they had nothing
to gain by It," said Lady Redcllff. '' But
Hugh's goodness now may not be quite so
disinterested. When did he tell you this
history of the losses ? Since his father's
death ? "

** Yes ; a few weeks ago, when he came
here the first time."

And why did he tell It you at all ?"

I think I have an Idea," said Theoo
dreamily.

'' Out with It then. I want to finish this
foolish talk and go to sleep."

'' I think he thought I might fancy  that
I might, perhaps, be disappointed at Uncle.
Henry's leaving me nothing  and so he wished
me to understand about the affairs, don't you
see ? "

'' He said nothing about making It up to
you In the future ? "

*' No, grand mamma. How could he ?
What do you mean ? Of course he did not
allude to my being disappointed at all."

'ein fact, he was gentlemanlike and considerate,
as the Norths always are. I suppose
he knows all about your affairs ? "

'' Yes," said Theoo.

*' Your poor little three hundred a year,
which you will find a sad pinch now that Uncle
Henry has deserted you. You will have to
depend on yourself, you know. I can't have
you always living here, though I don't mind
you for a visit now and then. We have had
enough of each other already, that's the truth ;
we shall quarrel mortally if you stay much
longer. Where will you go when you leave
me?"

'' I don't know," said Theoo.

She had probably heard this before, for it
did not seem to make much impression on

her, as she stood gazing out of the window.
After a minute Lady Redcliff said abruptly :

" Hugh North will ask you to marry him."

"He won't ; you are quite mistaken," said
Theoo, turning round with an air of magnificent
disdain.

He will. Don't you knows that I am a
witch ? I know the future. I can tell your
fortune, my pretty lady ; give me that white
hand of yours."

Theoo put her hands behind her and stood
motionless.

'* He shall be a dark man," the old woman
went on in a sort of beggar's whine. '' No fair
man is fit for the likes of you, my darling."
Then suddenly changing into her natural tone,
she said : ''He will, Theoo. What will you say
if he does?"

''No, of course," said Theoo; "but he
wouldn't be so foolish. Oh, it is too horrid

to talk like this ! I am going out for a
walk."

*' Go then. I am glad enough to get rid
of you," said Lady Redcliff. " Take Combe ;
you are not to go by yourself."

Theoo rushed upstairs to Combe, and hurried
her and herself out of the house in an angry
excited way. Combe was not surprised ; her
mistress generally came out of the drawing-room
in these moods, after a long talk with
Lady Redcliff.

Out of doors a little coolness was beginning
to breathe in the air ; so Theoo thought, at any
rate, in the first minutes of her escape from that
oppressive house. Then a flush of heat came
over her, for she and Combe had hardly crossed
the square when Captain North met them. He
was cool, and kind, and calm as usual. Theoo
could have laughed as she thought of her
grandmother's words, and yet hated the little

VOL. I. F

confusion that was inseparable from the memory
of them ; but her feelings were quite hidden
from Captain North.

Now you may go to church, Combe,"
he said, in his nice old matter-of-fact way,
*rand leave Miss Theoo to me. I'm come to
take care of her."

" Thank you, sir. It's too late for church,"
said Combe.

Well, go and see your friends, or something."


Go for a walk, Combe ; don't go back
into that horrid stuffy house," said Theoo ; and
then, with a feeling of relief and peace, all
disagreeable forgotten, she walked cheerfully
away with Hugh.

HUGH.

As Theoo walked away with her cousin, the
shadow of her grandmother's presence, the
echo of her mischievous words, became fainter
every moment. It had been a piece of unkindness,
of malice mixed with jealousy,
that attempt to destroy her peace with
Hugh ; but fortunately it had failed, and
now Theoo did not even resent it much. It
was only grand mamma ! Poor grandmamma
could not be good-natured if she tried, and
must always say what came into her head, no
matter how unhappy it made other people.

F 2

Theoo was never angry with her long
without beginning to be sorry for her. After
all, she could not do much harm ; and one
need only be in Hugh's company for five
minutes to realise what utter nonsense she
had been talking, and to be ashamed of
having minded it or thought about it at
all.

Theoo was always happy with Hugh. He
was never shocked at her flights, and seldom
amused at them ; but he often expressed a
little disapproval, and never any admiration ;
in fact, he was brotherly, in an unusually
polite fashion. He was a strength, a protection,
a background of quiet family affection
everything, in short, that Uncle Henryson
ought to have been. Theoo had never
troubled herself to analyse his fondness for
her, or hers for him ; it was like the air
she breathed ; she had grown up in it, her

mind resting on his in a faith that asked
no questions, and expected no enthusiasms.
There was only one drawback  that this
dear old Hugh was not really her brother ;
with that one step nearer, Theoo would not
have known the meaning of loneliness.

As it was, since her uncle's death and
Helen's marriage, she had been horribly
lonely, and had spent a good many hours
thinking sadly of the future. Her grandmother's
house could never feel like home,
and yet what other home was possible ?

She had not seen much of Hugh that
summer, for he had been very busy, and
Lady Redcliff's reception of him in his one
or two visits had not encouraged him to
come again. She had wanted very much
to talk things over with Hugh, and had said
so in a letter two or three days before this
Sunday ; but now, absurd as Lady Redcliffs

remarks and prophecies had been, she felt
a faint foolish disinclination to talk about
her own plans. Besides, it was pleasant
and easier to stroll happily along in the sunshine,
and think about nothing, and talk to
dear Wool, her collie, when they had fetched
him from the mews, where he sadly lived
apart from his mistress.

By the time she and Wool had told
each other all their feelings, they had
reached Kensington Gardens, and he then
ran off with a long swinging stride to amuse
himself Captain North, who had only
entered into this conversation by refusing
to see that Wool's coat was dull, and that
he was evidently pining away, now began
to talk on his own account.

He had plans, it seemed, and quite clear
and definite ones. He was going to Scotland
very soon, to shoot with a friend of his, and

hoped to be away about six weeks, coming
back early in October. He talked of Harry
Campbell and his shooting in an animated way,
. and Theoo listened with pleasure, for Hugh had
been in very low spirits ever since his father's
death.

They sat down under a tree in a quiet
corner, and talked for a long time. Wool,
when he was tired, came and lay down at
Theoo's feet. Theoo rustling wind, the warm
soft sun, the touch of autumn sadness already
in the air, all was pleasant and peaceful ; it
made Theoo feel good, and her manner was
charming. Captain North, sitting beside her
there, ought to have been a very happy man ;
his was the privilege of having her all to himself,
of saying anything he pleased, but he only
talked about plans for running away from her.

Yet even as he sat there he was thinking
that perhaps some day Theoo would belong

to him entirely, and no doubt he would be a
very fortunate fellow. He certainly had no
intention of marrying any one else, and he
believed that her fancy, too, was perfectly free.
He would not say anything now, from an odd
mixture of confidence and diffidence.

If Theoo had only known it, that last time
he came to the square, and was snubbed by
Lady Redcliff, and had to retreat rather crestfallen,
though he had found time enough
alone with Theoo to tell her that story of his
father's losses  that day, as he walked away
from the house, he had made up his mind to
rescue Theoo from her grandmother, by asking
her to marry him as soon as she would ; but
the day after he had a cheerful little note
from Theoo, and then he thought that Lady
Redcliff could not be positively unkind to
her, and that this tremendous step might as
well be put off a little. Circumstances were

not likely to change ; in these days Theoo
never saw anybody, and there could be no
possible doubt of his own constancy to her.
Besides, it would be very inconvenient to
him to marry that autumn ; his affairs were
not settled, and he had always intended to
leave the army when he married, and this
was a step which just now he would be
very sorry to take. Perhaps Theoo might
not have objected to a long engagement ;
but the plain truth and the conclusion of
the whole thing was, though the hero would
hardly have confessed it to himself, that
he did not dare ask her. If she refused
him, it would be such a horrid business ;
their happy confidence and friendship at an
end for ever.

** Perhaps I had better not," thought the
Captain, in a miserably wavering state of
mind, which would have astonished all his

friends ; " and yet there is nobody like Theoo,
and we must settle it some day."

But he made up his mind that, at any
rate, there could be no harm in waiting ; and
in the meanwhile, happily for him, he could
meet Theoo and walk with her and sit beside her,
without the slightest quickening of his pulse.

And now tell me, what are you going
to do ? " he said presently.

"- I don't know. You have made me envious.
I wish I was going to shoot in Scotland,"
said Theoo.

'' Yes ; I wish you were coming with me,
but unfortunately there's no Mrs. Campbell.
What can we do for you, though, Theoo ?
You are not looking well. I don't think
London agrees with you. Would Lady Red-cliff
let you go away anywhere ? "

*' I suppose so; she doesn't want me
always," said Theoo a little sadly.

Captain North looked very grave. He
was much interested in balancing a twig on
his stick ; but he was thinking what a dreadful
misfortune his father's death had been for
Theoooo. When Colonel North was alive Theoooo
had had no troubles, no anxieties ; she had
never been expected to decide or arrange
anything for herself. Her uncle had accustomed
her to depend entirely on him, and his
son thought this was quite right ; it seemed
to him perfectly correct that a woman should
have nothing to do with managing her own
affairs. Hugh North liked women, and was
liked by them ; but he had a very loves opinion
of their capacity, and this did not interfere
with a good deal of old-fashioned chivalry in
his thoughts of them.

'* You certainly ought not to stay in
London," he said presently. " Isn't there
any one by the sea anywhere, or in Wales,

or in Scotland, after all ? There are the
Tom Fraser. That would be a good plan,
because we could travel down together."

My dear Hugh, there may be lots of
people all over the kingdom, but none of them
have asked me, and I am not going to ask
myself. You don't want me to do that, I
suppose ? "

No," said Captain North. Then he
added after a minute's silence : " How would
you like to go to Helen ? "

She has not asked me."

I thought you told me some time ago,
that she wanted you to go there in the
autumn ? "

'that was before she was married," said
Theoo with a slight sigh. '' She does not
often write to me now."

Do you write to her ? Is it possible that you
were a little too scornful about her marriage ? "

** Indeed I was not scornful at all," said
Theoo quickly. " I wish you would not
think me so horrid, Hugh. Nell and I
were the best of friends, and I said nothing
that could hurt her feelings, I liked Mr.
Goodall ; he seemed very good-tempered.
You said yourself that he was not bad, and
you thought about him just the same as I
did."

*' Could you stay in his house ? "

Theoo looked a little sad.

'' It would be NelFs house too," she said,
as if reasoning with herself, and then she
smiled and looked full at Hugh. '* I think
it might be amusing," she said, *' and she
would let me be alone, and do anything I
liked, and I should learn a great deal about
potters and machinery. And don't you think
that I might take Aster down, as well as
Wool ? It would do them both so much

good. You won't want Aster while you are
in Scotland?"

No. There would have to be negotiations.
Fellows like Goodall are not always
accommodating. They have their own groove,
and if anything knocks them out of that, you
know, they can't always manage themselves.
Besides, Helen doesn't ride, and there might
be a difficulty about some one to go out with
you."

 I could go out alone."

*' No, my dear, certainly not. For one
thing, a country like that is sure to be full
of rough characters. But anyhow I don't
approve of it."

But you should consider, Hugh, that it
is necessary for a person like me to be
independent. One is not so very young at
twenty-three, and Fm sure I feel old enough
to go all over the world by myself, only I

should not like it. And there's always Combe.
What a pity Combe can't ride ! "

A great pity. But don't begin to be
independent just yet, to oblige me."

I am afraid I have begun' said Theoo.

'well, but seriously, I don't see why you
should not write to Nell, and propose a visit.
Aster and Wool might come in as an afterthought."


Theoo was doubtful.

I must consult grand mamma. I think
I will wait a few days, at any rate," she
said.

Presently they got up and strolled a little
farther, and then she thought it was time to go
back to her grandmother, so they turned their
steps that way, walking very slowly. Only too
soon, however, they reached the square, and
Lady Redcliff's door, and then a shadow came
over Theoo's face again, and it was with a very

sad smile that she wished her cousin goodbye.


'' Shall I see you again before you go ? '
she said. " I won't ask you to come in
now, because  perhaps you would rather
not."

I'll do anything you like  whatever you
think best," said Hugh, with a sort of eagerness
that was checked almost before it was
visible.

Perhaps you had better not," said Theoo.

He kept her hand in his for a few
moments while he said :

'' I am afraid this is good-bye, do you
know. I am going on Thursday, and I
shall be very busy till then. But Theoo, you
must not stay here  you are unhappy."

He said the last words very low, with
an earnest lingering gaze into her face.

I wish I was not obliged to leave you

here," he muttered, as she did not answer
at once.

'' One can't always expect to be happy,"
said Theoo. " You are not happy  we ought
not to be, either of us. It is such a very
great change. I'm glad you are going to
Scotland, and I shall be very glad to see
you when you come back again ; you will
most likely find me here."

We must write to each other."

*' Oh, of course."

'' And you won't write to Helen ? "

'' I am not sure. I shall wait a little.
Mr. Goodall might say I was a bore."

*' Helen, perhaps, has taught him that
word, but he does not know it by nature,"
said Captain North. *' Well, good-bye."

He turned and walked away, and Theoo
went into the house. They were both sad
at parting. She missed his friendly sym-vol.

I. G

path, and he was haunted by her paleness
and thinness, and by the tired look about
her beautiful dark eyes.

That evening he took some writing-paper,
and sat for a long time with a pen in his
hand. I believe he was going to write to
Theoo, and in quite a new strain ; but prudence
or some other unattractive virtue once
more conquered, and instead of writing to
Theoo he wrote to his cousin, Mrs. John
Goodall, a letter chiefly about Theoo, her
looks, and her present position with her
grandmother. Lady Redcliff.

JOHN.

Another week of hot monotonous August
passed away, and Theoo was still staying
with her grandmother. She was not actually
discontented, her nature was too fine for
small discontents; but yet she was not at
all happy. She missed her uncle and all his
old friends ; she missed Hugh, and Aster,
and freedom, and fresh air. She could take
long walks now with Combe, and have
Wool to run by her side ; but she wanted
a wide horizon and an active life full of
interest, such as she used to live in the old

G 2

days. Her mental and bodily health were
both being spoilt by the hard strain of this
London life without gaiety or excitement.
The only changes of every day were those
in Lady Redcliff's temper. If she was not
angry, and stinging, and malicious, she was
silent and dismal. Theoo did not know
which of these humours was most trying ;
but she hardly ever complained of her
grandmother, even to herself, and they had
a strange liking for each other, even when
they quarrelled most violently. Yet it was
a bad training for the mind and heart of
a young woman, and Theoo's face showed
more and more of the weariness that Captain
North had sadly noticed there.

One afternoon the deadness, the melancholy
of this life seemed more intense and
painful than ever. The room was hotter
and more stuffy ; Lady Redcliff had been

very cross all day, and was now nodding
half-asleep over her newspaper. Theoo sat
dreaming with some fancy-work In her hands,
at which she stitched unconsciously, and her
lips moved sometimes, for she was repeating
to herself the words of a song about fairyland,
which Uncle Henry used to make her
sing to him nearly every evening :

And you shall touch with your finger-tips
The ivory gate and golden.

Ah yes ; but when and where ? Had Uncle
Henry only reached It now, when he had
gone away into the shadow, and could not
be called back again, and could not come
and tell her all that he knew she wanted to
know ? They had often talked about these
things, for he was a good man, and Theoo
from a child had found religion very Interesting.
The silence after his death had had a

sad effect upon her ; she could now feel sure
of nothing, and though she hated her grandmother's
talk of these things, there were
dreadful possibilities of truth In It. Theoo
found It best not to think and puzzle herself
too much, but very often to remember and
say to herself the words that Uncle Henry
used to like best. That song of the fairies
Theoo thought that their country was very
familiar to him ; she fancied that she herself
had looked sometimes with him through "the
ivory gate and golden," for certainly, though
he had had many troubles, he was the happiest
man she had ever known. Ah, but how faraway
that bright gate seemed now, that entrance
Into beauty and nobleness, and a high
and generous life ! A cloud had come down
and hidden it ; Lady Redcliff's dark walls
shut out such visions most effectually. Happiness,
too ; the joy of life and youth ; it was

too soon for these glorious things to "fade
into the light of common day," and that fairy-gate,
to Theoo's fancy, had been the way into
them all. Was it never to open again ?

She was disturbed in her thoughts by the
butler, who opened the door gently, with an
alarmed glance at his mistress, and asked her
if she would see Mr. Goodall.

Before Theoo had collected her wits to
answer, Lady Redcllff was wide-awake.

"Mr. Goodall! Where is he? What
does he want ? "

She was not a person who had old servants
; they could not be faithful to her, anymore
than her friends, partly because she
never trusted them ; and this little man, who
had been in the house a month, could not
yet speak to her without trembling.

"Mr. Goodall asked for Miss Meynell,
my lady."

'' I know that. Say she Is not at home.
I can't have that man coming here, Theoo.
What makes him take such a Liberty ? "

'' He has come to see me, grandmamma,"
said Theoo, getting up. " Show Mr. Goodall
Into the Library, Jackson."

The butler hesitated a moment In real
alarm ; but as Lady Redcllff did not contradict
this order, he supposed he was to obey it,
and went away.

This Is a sort of odious Impertinence
that I will not endure," said Lady Redcllff.
'' My house to be the rendezvous of all the
snobs that your cousins choose to connect
themselves with ? Do you hear, Theoo .' I
won't have It ! "

I really don't know what you mean,"
said Theoo coldly.

'' You are so changeable that I really can't
understand you," said Lady Redcllff. '' You

told me yourself that the man was a snob,
or how do I know It ? And now, because
you are bored with me, you are ready to fly
into his arms. You will be staying at his
house next, I suppose ? "

'' After all, he is Helen's husband," said
Theoo.

Does that make any difference ? Does
a woman raise her husband, pray ? "

'' I can't argue now. I must go and see
him''

'' Well, go. I don't want to keep you
from your charming new relation."

Theoo went slowly downstairs. When she
came into the library, where Mr. Goodall was
waiting for her, she looked cold, and stately,
and sleepy, and absent to the last degree.
He, having arrived full of good-nature and
friendly feeling, felt himself suddenly checked
in his flow of kindness. Theoo certainly

looked and spoke as If she did not want him,
and at first the good fellow was Inclined to
be angry ; but then he was shocked at
her altered looks since the wedding, and
remembered all that Helen had said about
her , dreamy ways, and sensibly and generously
determined to make allowances for
her.

I happened to be In London for a day,"
he said, after answering her questions about
Helen, *' and my wife thought I might take
the opportunity of calling."

'' It was very good of you," said Theoo.

She was not sure that she liked the way
in which those quick dark eyes of his were
scrutinising her. They seemed somehow to
contradict the rest of his appearance, which
was stout, and solid, and opaque. There was
an odd kind of smile on his face. Theoo
thought she liked him less than on the

wedding-day, and that It was a little stupid
of Helen to send him to see her.

'' But she Is quite contented with him, I
suppose ? " she reflected. '' Dear me, how
very, very funny ! "

How is Lady Redcllff ?" said Mr. Good-all.
" I did not ask for her, because I understood
that she does not care to see people
much."

'' She is pretty well, thank you. She
seldom sees anybody."

'rit is better to have a talk with you
alone," he said, taking a note out of his pocketbook,
'' because you can tell me what you
think of this plan of ours."

What plan ? " said Theoo vaguely, as he
gave her the note, which was directed to her
in Helen's writing.

''If you will kindly read that, it will save
explanation."

*' My dearest Theoo,

'' I am sure you must be tired of
London by this time, and I know it never
agrees with you. I suppose you have not
forgotten that you promised to come to mein
the autumn, and September begins directly,
and I want you now for a really good long
visit. This neighbourhood is nothing much,
but you and I will have lots to talk about,
and you will feel quite independent of the
people here, just as I do. I want you to
bring Aster and Wool, and to feel as if you
were at home, and to stay till something
obliges you to go away. This is all from
John as well as myself, and his special partis
that he will take this letter to you himself,
and persuade you to come down with him on
Wednesday. Dear old Theoo, don't disappoint
me. I want you so very much. Your loving

'' Helen."

Theoo's face softened wonderfully as she
read this letter, and she looked up at John
Goodall with a smile, which made him smile
cheerfully in return.

Well, it's settled, isn't it ? " he said, ina
loud hearty voice. '' We shall meet at
Euston at two o'clock tomorrow. And now
about your horse and your dog ; can I do
anything . You haven't got them here, I
suppose ? Where are they coming from ? "

'' Thank you ; they are both in

Street," said Theoo. '' My cousin. Captain
North, had Aster at Hounslow till the other
day ; but I had him up here after he went
to Scotland, because I thought I might have
a ride now and then. Thank you so much ;
but do you really like them to come down
with me ? "

'' Of course," said John. " We want to
cheer you up and make you strong, if you will

let us, and, excuse me, but I think we are
setting about It none too soon."

These personal remarks sounded odd,
coming from a perfect stranger, and Theoo
took no notice of them ; but she reminded
herself hastily : '' He is my cousin ; he Is
Nell's husband," and went on talking about
Aster and Wool, and the arrangements for
their journey Into the middle of England.

'rand you are coming down with me tomorrow
? " said Mr. Goodall in his strong tones.
'' That's right."

At this moment Lady Redcliff appeared at
the door, which was standing a little open.
Theoo did not seem startled, but a faint shade
of colour came Into her pale face. She gave a
momentary glance at John, who appeared quite
calm and unawed by the little old lady's appearance,
and Introduced him in her sweetest,
politest manner to her grandmother.

'how d'ye do, Lady Redcllff?" said
John, stretching out his large hand. '' I hope
you won't be angry with me for running
away with your granddaughter. We think
it's time she had some country air, you
know."

He was not even frightened by Lady
RedcHff's cold astonished look, or the slight
touch of her thin icy little fingers. She turned
from him to Theoo, her eyebrows mounting up
in an arch of questions. Then she laughed.

'ris Mr. Goodall tired of his wife already,
Theoo, and does he want to run away with you ?
You look very happy about It. Well, I am not
particular, Mr. Goodall ; but you do shock me,
I must confess. I always understood you were
such an excellent person. I have heard so
much of you from Theoooo  haven't I, Theoooo ''
And what have you done with your wife '. "

I left her yesterday In Staffordshire, and I

am going back to her tomorrow, and with
your leave I want to take Miss Meynell with
me for a long visit' said John, grave and
unabashed.

Oh, that's all very correct and uninteresting
; I can't give you my sympathy any
further ; you are just as good as they led me to
think," said Lady Redcliff " I am sorry for
you, though, and I will give you a little advice.
Don't say too much about a long visit. Theoo
will be tired of you In a week ; she has a vaster
capacity for being bored than any one I ever
knew, except myself. She Is descended from
me, you see, and Inherits my vices."

John did not answer. He looked at Theoo,
but her eyes were fixed on Helen's letter.
Then he made Lady Redcliff a little bow.

You are quite right not to be complimentary,"
said she. " I have no virtues, and I
don't care for the credit of them. Theoo Inherits

my vices. When are you going to take
her away ? To-night ? "

Mr. Goodall did not exactly make any
answer. He looked again at Theoo ; it was
plain that her grandmother's account of her
had frightened him a little. He turned quite
away from Lady Redcliff, bending himself
towards Theoo, and said very gravely and
distinctly :

You like to come ? "

My dear Mr. Goodall, she is enchanted,"
said Lady Redcliff " She is bored to death
with me ; you can see that in her face ; and she
is only afraid to speak or look now because she
feels too happy. I was only talking about the
future just now  and, after all, your wife must
be a charming creature, and will be able to
amuse her for a week or two, I dare say. Are
there plenty of young men in your neighbourhood
 agreeable men, like yourself ? ''

VOL. I. H

At this moment Theoo flashed a glance at
her grandmother, by which John was really-startled
; and perhaps he began to wish that
Helen had never sent him on this errand of
kindness and hospitality. It seemed as if
there was some family likeness between these
ladies, after all. But then Theoo's pale beautiful
face was turned to him again, and her
eyes, which had just been so angry, where
full of sad sweetness as she said :

"It is very kind of you and Helen to
want me to come. I like to come extremely,
and I will be sure to meet you at the station
tomorrow. Two o'clock, did you say ? "

'' Two o'clock  yes," said John ; and then
he thought that he might go, and stood up,
looking down with sturdy coolness into Lady
Redcliff's small, pinched, maliciously-smiling
face. "No," he said, " my country is not
very gay, though there are plenty of people

in it. We have life, but not society, I'm
afraid."

'well, life is a very good thing. Herein
London we have death," said Lady Red-cliff.


John hastily wished them good-bye, and
went. He squeezed Theoo's hand, and looked
straight into her eyes, saying : '' To-morrow."
As he walked down the street, he said to
himself, '* Poor girl, poor girl, poor girl !
What an awful, horrible old woman ! "

'' A very fine specimen of a potter," said
Lady Redcliff, taking Theoo's arm to go upstairs.
"How fat he is, and how brilliantly
agreeable ! Really, my dear, I envy you a
few weeks with him."

"He is very nice, grand mamma, and there
was no reason for you to be so dreadful to
him. He is a good kind fellow, and I know
I shall like him very much."

H 2

He is more amusing than Hugh North,
because he shows his outraged feelings  a
child of nature, in fact," said Lady RedcHff.
But I thought I was charming to him. I
certainly felt very much pleased with him for
taking you away, and I said nothing but the
truth about you. You are the most dreamy,
the most lackadaisical, the most easily-bored
person, with the most ungoverned temper,
that I ever knew in my life. Except myself,
as I said. I was just like you when I was
young."

'' Were you, grand mamma ' " said Theoo,
startled.

Ask any of the people who used to
know me," said Lady Redcliff triumphantly.

A LOST CHILD.

Theoo and her maid arrived at the station
rather before two o'clock the next day.
Combe was not in a good temper ; she did
not half approve of this visit to Mr. and
Mrs. Goodall. Theoo, after a cold, painful
parting with her grandmother, was in a
melancholy dream. She knew that Lady
Redcliff hated letting her go, and would
miss her extremely ; yet no one else could
have known this, for all Lady Redcliffs
remarks that morning were full of sneering
contempt for Theoo herself, and for the people
she was going to.

As Mr. Goodall was nowhere to be seen,
Theoo walked across the great hall of the
station, turned Into the waiting-room, and sat
down there, looking absently straight before
her. Combe was outside, watching over the
luggage and waiting for Wool, who was to
be brought from the mews and to go down
by the same train with them.

Theoore sat Theoo in the large gloomy room.
Her black clothes were not becoming to her ;
they made her look pale and ill, but she could
not help being very handsome, though that
cold, still, scornful face might hardly have been
called attractive. Though her eyes fell sometimes
on a young girl, who was the only other
person in the room, she did not really see or
notice her at all.

This girl, unlike herself, was very restless.
She wandered round and round the room,
stopping sometimes to read the advertisements

or to look at herself In the glass ; sometimes
she went out on the platform, and walked a
few yards away, and looked up and down, and
came back again ; then she went out of the
other door into the booking-office, and looked
into the hall for a minute, and then came
back into the waiting-room with an impatient
sigh. At last she stopped near Theoo, glancing
at her rather wistfully, and their eyes met.
After a moment's gaze, Theoo began to see
her, and perceived what a pretty child she
was. She was hardly more than sixteen ; a
fair, bright-looking girl, with a tinge of red
in her curly hair which made it all the prettier,
a lovely pink and white skin, small features,
and innocent blue eyes, which looked as if
they could either smile or cry very easily.
Just now they were nearer crying. She did
not look clever, but certainly she was not
stupid, for that short look into the cold quiet

face of the stranger, sitting there so dreamy
and still, so much older, and in every way
such a contrast to herself, brought her at
once several yards nearer, and with a rather
tearful smile she said quickly :

*' Do you know, I am in such trouble ! "
Have you missed your train, or lost
somebody ? " said Theoo with the greatest
kindness.

The child's voice was as sweet as her
face, and drove all her own dismal thoughts
away.

" I have missed I don't know how many
trains. I have been waiting here since ten
this morning, and now I don't know what
to do."

'' Are you quite alone ? "
I have been alone all these hours.
Perhaps I may tell you all about it ? "
''Do," said Theoo.

'' I have been at school at Kensington.
My eldest brother sent me there ; I have only
two brothers In the world. I had to stay till
now because there was nowhere for me to go,
but now they have settled for me to live with
my youngest brother in the country. The
eldest was going to take me down to-day, and
he said I was to be here at ten, so of course I
was. But he said he was very busy, and he
might not be able to catch that train ; and if so
I must wait for him, and we would go by the
next. There have been three or four since
then, and he doesn't come, and I really don't
know what to do. Do you think I ought to
stay here all day ? "

Perhaps it would be best for you to go
back to the school," said Theoo.

But he might come after all, and then he
would be angry. And Mrs. Keene, our principal,
is going abroad tomorrow, and she can't

have me on her hands any longer. What shall
I do ? "

There was something touching, though
a little puzzling and provoking, in the
girl's way of standing there and looking
at Theoo for help. She expected it so certainly,
that Theoo felt as if she must have
it, and began to think what she could do.
Leave Combe here, perhaps, to take care
of this child, and to come down by the
later train. Would that be very inconvenient
to everybody ? Combe would not be
pleased, but after all, her business was to do
as she was told.

'' Combe forgets that a little too much
sometimes," thought her mistress. " I believe
it would be the best plan."

'' It is not a very long journey, I think, but
I have never travelled by myself at all," the
girl said, as Theoo was silent. *' It is a very

ugly part of the country where my brother
lives, near Mainly."

'how far from Mainley?" said Theoo,
looking up with a sudden smile.

'three miles, I think. What fun it

would be " And she checked herself

suddenly, blushing, but Theoo was looking
at her very kindly.

That makes it quite easy," she said.
I am going by this train to Mainley, with
a  a cousin of mine. Of course you can go
with us, if you like, and there will be no
difficulty in getting to your brother, when
you are only three miles from him. Perhaps
he will meet you."

How kind you are ! Thank you. But
I don't know, I'm sure. What will Clarence
say if he does come here, and doesn't find

me?"

"We will leave a message for him. There

was a nice porter with my things ; he looked
as if he would remember a message' said
Theoo. 'shall we go and speak to him?"

She got up, and the girl followed her out
of the waiting-room. They went on together
into the hall, where Combe, with frequent
glances at the clock, was standing by a pile
of luggage ; the porter was just labelling it
to Mainley.

Wool had not arrived, nor Mr. Goodall.

'' If you please, miss, what shall we do
if Mr. Goodall is late for the train ? " said
Combe, stepping forward anxiously. '' The
dog isn't come, either."

"Isn't he?" said Theoo. "Will you label
this young lady's luggage to Mainley, please ?"
she said to the porter. " Where is it ? "
turning to her companion.

Oh, the man said he must put it in the
cloak-room."

'for this train, miss? I'll see to it
directly," said the porter.

'' And if a gentleman comes after the
train is gone, and asks for this young lady,
will you tell him that she is quite safe, and
has gone on to Mainley ? "

Here Theoo was checked in her romantic
career, much to Combe's relief, by the simultaneous
arrival of two men, who came in at
different doors, and walked straight up to the
group in the middle of the hall. One was
Mr. Goodall, with a porter leading Wool,
who struggled to reach his mistress. The
other was a tall, lazy, gentlemanlike, middle-aged
man, with a not very agreeable expression.
Theoo, looking at him, was faintly
reminded of somebody she had seen. She
noticed him with some interest, for her young
companion turned quickly to meet him, rather
frightened and confused.

I thought you were never coming," she
began.

'' Here we are now, and there is no time
to lose," said her brother.

He was not just then looking at her, but
at Mr. Goodall, and the two men lifted their
hats to each other. Both looked stiff, and
John Goodall's face was very stern. His eyes
darted from the man to the girl, and then
to Theoo : these two bowed and smiled to
each other as the tall man hurried his sister
away.

Then followed a few moments of bustle
and confusion, for they were nearly late for
the train. John Goodall was in a great fuss,
and Theoo thought him a tiresome fellow-traveller,
and wondered how Helen's placid
ways would fit in with this sort of thing.
After all, they were in the carriage a minute
or two before the train started, and Theoo

saw her friend pass along the platform.
There were now two men with her ; the
second was a rough, vulgar-looking man, with
a red, close-shaven face and a bumptious air.

John Goodall gave a sort of angry grunt,
and threw himself back in the corner.

'* Do you know those people ? " said Theoo
as the train began to move.

"Yes. How can they Interest you?" said
John crossly.

Theoo looked at him and smiled a little.
He passed his hand over his face, as If to
brush away some cobwebs, and went on, still
in a grumpy manner :

I am sorry If I hurried you just now.
I was kept by a stupid mistake, and I have
been bothered this morning by some business
going wrong. Have you been waiting long ? "

*' Not much more than ten minutes, I
think," said Theoo.

'' I beg your pardon. What did you ask
me about those people ? Were you talking
to that girl when I came in just now ? "

'' Yes. I asked you if you knew them."

I don't know much good of them, and
I wonder how you picked up the acquaintance.
Helen wouldn't approve, you know."

But I don't suppose Helen knows the
girl. Tell me about them, and then I will
tell you why I was talking to her."

"As to the girl I know nothing about
her."

Except that she is wonderfully pretty."

'' Well, I don't even know that. I never
saw her before, and I didn't look at her just
now. I suppose she is Litton's sister, poor
thing! and in that case she has a valuable
brother. I have heard a few things about
him  nothing that you can actually take hold
of, you know, but it is warning enough for

us business men when all a man's history
is not quite straight and above-board. He
doesn't often show himself down at Malnley ;
nor does that fellow who was with him just
now, and who certainly bears a letter of
recommendation in his face. Didn't you
think so ?"

*' You are very satirical," said Theoo
dreamily.

'well, no wonder. And I'm curious too.
I want to know how you made acquaintance
with Miss Fane ; It Is not a secret, I
suppose."

'fane! Is that her name?"

If It was LItton's sister, her name Is
Fane. The mother married twice."

But how very odd ! " said Theoo, looking
him full in the face and smiling. "Is she
related to that Mr. Fane who came to your
wedding ? "

VOL. I. I

"Oh, you haven't forgotten that fellows
said John Goodall a Httle uncomfortably.

'' Of course not. I thought he was a
friend of yours. This is very puzzling altogether''


'well, I can explain it. The company
only took these Deerhurst mines last winter,
and young Fane came as manager. Everything
seemed fair and right enough then
and I took rather a fancy to him ; he was
a better sort of fellow than we often get
down there. He had been rather under the
weather, I think, before he came ; he left
the army because he couldn't pay his debts,
and I suppose Litton did the best he could
for him by giving him this post of manager.
He told me once that Litton had done
everything in the world for him and his
sister  put her to school and so forth. Well,
Litton may have been generous, but I rather

suspect It was with other people's money.
It Is only within the last few weeks, you
understand, that I have begun to have
doubts about him. And now I have nothing
to say against Fane ; only If a fellow can
work with men like Litton and Warren, and
keep his hands clean, he Is a miracle, which
we don't expect in these days. It was a
mistake, my bringing Fane to the wedding.
I acknowledge that. But I was in a difficulty,
as Helen perhaps told you."

I remember," said Theoo. '' But he did
no harm, and I think he was very agreeable."


"As to that, he is rather ornamental," said
Mr. Goodall. '' But It looked Intimate ; it
was taking him up, you see, to an extent
that I have regretted since."

I can't see that you have anything to
regret," said Theoo, with a clear memory of

I 2

Mr. Fane's great superiority to the bridegroom.


** That's natural ; he is a smart fellow in
his way, but we business men have to look
at things from our point of view. And now
you were going to tell me how you made
acquaintance with Miss Fane."

Theoo told him, and her worthy cousin
listened with a good-natured, rather patronising
smile, but said nothing to offend
her.

"Well," he remarked, 'she will have a
dull life of it, poor girl ! They have got
rather a nice little old house, with a good
view over trees and meadows, right away
from the smoke. The company bought it,
and I have been sorry ever since that I did
not buy it myself, for it is one of the best
sites in the neighbourhood. I rather wish I
had gone In for the mine and the whole

thing, but I had other things in my head
last winter."

'' Helen will go and see Miss Fane, won't
she ? "

'' I can't say," said Mr. Goodall dryly.
*' We are some distance off, and Helen doesn't
much care for visiting, as you know."

But you know the brother ; and the
girl is so pretty, and has such nice manners.
I am quite sure Helen would like her."

'* We shall see. There is no hurry about
it. I have not seen much of young Fane
lately, and I don't care to mix myself up with
them just now."

But Helen is not you."

Mr. Goodall smiled.

"You don't think so . "

"Besides," said Theoo, "women have
nothing to do with business. You can
quarrel as much as you like with the brothers.

but that need not hinder Helen from being
kind to the poor lonely harmless little
sister."

I'm sorry for her, I assure you, but I
don't believe Helen would agree with you in
all that. Marriage changes people's ideas.
When you are married, you will find that
your husband's quarrels are apt to become
your own."

This personal touch put an end at once to
Theoo's argument. She showed no annoyance,
but she turned her face away to the
window, and silently reflected on the moral
of all this talk  that there could be no real
sympathy between people of different kinds,
such as herself and Mr. Goodall. He did not
seem sorry to take up his newspaper, over
which he glanced now and then, with a shade
of vexation, at the fair proud profile of his
wife's favourite cousin. He was very glad

that Helen was not such an impracticable
person ; and yet, though she provoked him'
he could not help liking Theoo.

The train rushed on for several hours,
past woods, and meadows and corn-fields  a
landscape which would have been uninteresting
if it had not glowed with gold and
green and blue in the riches of summer ; here
and there a reddening tree, a soft hanging
mist, a cleared harvest-field, bringing a touch
of autumn to sober all the joy.

At last the horizon began to be stained
with long trails of smoke, which Theoo thought
were clouds, till she saw the chimneys from
which they were slowly creeping forth ; and
then presently the train stopped at a rather
grimy-looking station, with honest ugly faces
on the platform, and they were at their
journey's end. As John Goodall took her
to the carriage, Theoo looked round and saw

her girl-friend again. She was walking with
Mr. Warren, the disagreeable-faced man who
had joined them at Euston. He had just
taken a book out of her hand, and was laughing.
She looked flushed and miserable, but,
catching Theoo's eyes, she hurried suddenly
on, and Theoo held out her hand to her.
Mr. Goodall glanced at her curiously, but
not unkindly. Theoo herself was strangely
touched by the child's unhappy face, and the
way in which she flew to her.

'' Are you very tired ? '' she said in her
sweetest manner. "You have had a long day.
Good-bye ! But I know where you live, and
I shall come and see you."

'' Will you, really ? Oh, thank you  thank
you ! "

Mr. Goodall said nothing till he and Theoo
were driving off in his great carriage together.
Then he remarked :

*' So you chose to commit yourself."
'' Yes, I did. I always do what I choose,"
said Theoo, so gently, and with such a
smile, that he could not even feel angry with
her.

GERALD fane's HOUSE.

The drawing-room window at Deerhurst
Lodge looked out into a balcony full of
flowers, over a green terrace with large
bushes of fuchsia and old-fashioned roses, and
carnations, and sylvia, and asters, and geraniums,
crowded together and growing rather
wildly. At the north end of this terrace
there was a yew, and a high wall covered
with ivy and Virginia creeper ; at the south
end a great old wych-elm stretched its brown
arms and hung its tresses of feathery leaves
over the terrace and a lawn on the other

side, which sloped up southward, bordered
with box and rhododendrons, to the drive
and the gate into the village.

Below the terrace, to the west, there
was an orchard with old gray apple-trees,
some of them now covered with fruit. The
ground fell away steeply into the hollow,
where was a pond nearly hidden by trees,
then rising again to a grass-field, and a cornfield
full of standing sheaves, then falling
to flat meadows and a river, with tall rows
of poplars against the sky. Farther away
there were woods, and distant, fields, and
hills, but except on the northern horizon,
where there were signs of a town behind
the tree-tops, half-hidden by the shoulder of
the ridge on which Deerhurst stood, no
smoke was to be seen, or any sign that all
this was in a country of mines and manufactures.
Certainly there was a distant puffing

and snorting ' of engines to be heard
that evening, and perhaps it interfered a
little with the peace of the solemn landscape,
the sun gone down in stormy glory, on
which Ada Fane looked out as she sat with
her brother at the window ; but she was
almost too young to feel the sentiment of
the hour or its disturbance.

He was sitting in a large arm-chair, and
she was opposite him on the low window-seat.
The last sunset lights had caught
her crop of auburn curls, so that his eyes
lingered on the lovely piece of colour ; but
he made no remark upon it ; he was quite
taken up with listening to her adventures of
the day.

'' And you didn't find out what her name
was ? "

*' No, Gerald. How could I ? But we
shall know when she comes to see me."

Her brother laughed.

'' She won't come ; don't flatter yourself,"
he said. " She could only come with
Mrs. Goodall, and that beast Goodall won't
let them. He means to cut me. Why, I
don't know, but I suppose we are not smart
enough for him now he is married. He has
never asked me to the house once, though
he dragged me to the wedding. I wish I
had never gone."

Why, when you came to see me, directly
afterwards, I thought you had liked it," said
Ada

'did you?"

'' Don't be cross, Gerald, or I shan't like
living with you. Don't you think it was
selfish of old Clarence to keep me waiting
all those hours because he wanted that horrid
Mr. Warren to come down with us ? "

'' Poor lite thing ! Don't talk so loud ;

the window down there is open, and they
might hear you."

'' Oh no, I hear their old voices droning
away ; they are thinking of wine and tobacco,
and not of me at all. But I should rather
like Mr. Warren to know that I think him
horrid, because I do."

"You are not fond of smoking?"

I don't mind your innocent cigarettes,
my dear."

'' Well, as you are going to live with
me, and as I am many years older than
you "

'' Not more than eight, Gerald."

*' Listen. You will have, of course, todo
everything I tell you."

-Shall I really?"

"Yes; I mean it. And to begin with,
you must be civil to the people that Clarence
brings here. They may be the biggest

bores possible, but you have got to behave
well to them, and especially to Mr. Warren."

'' I can't, Gerald. I hate him, and I
shall not speak to him again if I can help
it."

** That is a babyish way of talking. You
will have to go back to school, if you can't
behave like a grown-up person. Look here,
I don't like Warren either, and I don't suppose
Clarence does ; but don't you see, the
company depends upon him. He has got all
the money. The house and the whole thing
belongs to him, really and literally ; at least,
if he withdrew, we couldn't go on for a month,
and so he must be kept in a good temper.
If I am thrown out of this work, I shall have
to go to the Colonies, and then I don't know
what would become of you. Now you see
it is our interest to be civil to Mr. Warren."

Ada sighed.

'' To oblige you," she said. " But I hope
he won't come here much. At any rate, I'm
glad you don't like him."

I should be happy to kick him out of
the house," said her brother.

Ada sat looking up at him, as he stared
out of the window, with the enthusiastic devotion
of sixteen. She liked Clarence, and was
grateful to him ; he had always been kind to
her ; but Gerald was her only own brother,
the hero of all her hopes and fancies,
to her mind the handsomest man and
the finest gentleman in England. Their
mother had spoilt him to the very utmost of
her power, and since her death he had not
wanted worshippers, though he had indeed
been lonely enough since trouble came, and
this distasteful work. He disliked it more
than ever now. For the last two or three
years he had been in the north of England

plodding away in a colliery office where his
brother had put him ; solitary, of course,
among his companions, who yet liked and
respected him. For there really was something
fine about Gerald, inferior as he was
to what poor Mrs. Fane and Ada thought
him. He had breeding, character, ambition ;
he disdained to shine among the associates to
whom fate had condemned him ; but his false
position filled him with that sensitive pride
which had made him so bitterly regret going
to John Goodall's wedding. Poor fellow ! he
had certainly made a mess of his life so far.
Two years in the army had been enough to
run through the few thousand pounds that
his mother had left him ; he had been even
more careless and thoughtless than most boys
of his age. But all that seemed long ago
now ; at four-and-twenty, Gerald was beginning
to feel himself a dismal, respectable old

VOL. I. . K

man ; a racehorse obliged to plod in a cart
for the rest of his broken-down days, and
yet conscious that all the strength and swiftness
were hidden somewhere in him still.

How do you like the house ? " said
Gerald presently. '' Do you think it is all
right ? Have I got everything proper ? "

'' I think it is all lovely. Did you get
this nice furniture ? "

Well, it had to be furnished. Clarence
said it was to be comfortable, so I got everything
I thought necessary. I am rather proud
of the arm-chairs ; have you tried them yet ?
That bookcase is a success, I think, and the
piano is a good one. But it all wants a
lady, of course."

It has got one now," said Ada.

She jumped up and walked round the
room, in which the most aesthetic taste could
hardly have wished anything altered. Its

inspiration might perhaps have been found
between the quiet boards of Mr. Morris's
*' Hopes and Fears for Art," which was lying
on a small table ; yet there was more of
comfort than he and his school would quite
have approved of; and Mrs. Fane, who had
had great troubles, looked down sadly from
the wall on her two darling children.

" Oak, china, books, nice greens and blues,"
said Ada, as she wandered round. '* Oh yes,
it's all very satisfying, but there is one thing
we want, Gerald."

'what?"

'flowers, and things to hold them. Tm
sure my lady is fond of flowers, and I know
she will come, whatever you may say."

Gerald laughed.

** There are plenty outside," he said, and
then he got up from his chair and began
following her lazily round.

K 2



Standing at the bookcase, he took out a book,
and turned over the leaves, while she opened
the piano and ran her fingers up and down.

Take care," he said ; '* perhaps you will
bring Mr. Warren upstairs."

Ada shut the piano with an exclamation.

I don't see why you and I should not
live like civilised people, Ada," he said gravely.
"These men won't be down here very often ;
the affairs are a good deal left to me, and as
It is our house, I think it had better be a
regular house, you know. You can look after
the housekeeping ; the cook Is a good sort
of woman, and if you are In any trouble you
can come to me."

Oh no, I shall never come to you,"
said Ada. " Don't be so conceited ; really
you are priggish. It will be delightful fun,
and I shall order all kinds of nice things. By-the-by,
do you have five o'clock tea ? "

' Never. That's a feast unknown. I
don't come In till after six. You will want
it, of course, so mind you order it tomorrow
morning."

Perhaps I shall have the pleasure of

pouring it out for Miss , Mr. Goodall's

cousin. I do wish I knew her name."

What did you say she was like ' Tell
me again," said Gerald, his face still bent over
his book.

She is like a symphony of Beethoven's
which I learned the other day. And you are
like my Hungarian March, Gerald. I wonder
that never struck me before."

"Can't you answer a plain question?"

Don't be cross. Her hair and eyes are
dark ; but her eyes are much more than dark
they are so soft and smiling, It makes one
happy to look at them. Her complexion is
pale, her lips are red ; I think her mouth is a

lovely shape. I don't know that I ever saw
a beautiful person, they are so very rare ; but
if I did, she is one. There is a sort of cut
look about her nose "

'' Oh, by Jove ! " exclaimed Gerald, with a
sudden laugh.

'* What is the matter ? "

Nothing ; only your description. It is
very good after all. Go on."

Ada hesitated, half offended, but she went
on :

'when I first saw her, I felt afraid to
speak to her, she looked so cold, and grave,
and grand, but presently she began to look
at me, quite absently at first, till her eyes woke
up, and then I saw she was a perfect darling."

'was there a dog anywhere about?" said
Gerald after a pause.

Yes. Mr. Goodall brought a collie, and
he pulled to go to her, and she went and

patted him. Then Clarence came and took
me away."

I know who she is  Miss Meynell, Mrs.
Goodall's cousin. I saw her at the wedding,"
said Gerald, quietly putting back his book, and
walking to the window.

Ada was full of exclamations.

** Did you speak to her at the wedding }
Will she remember you ? '*

'* Yes, I spoke to her. I took her in to
breakfast, and we had a little talk about dogs.
I saw no more of her, for she went away in
the afternoon. No, I don't suppose she will
remember me."

'' And didn't you admire her tremendously ?
How very funny men are ! "

She is very handsome," said Gerald.

'* Don't you call her beautiful ? "

He stood at the window with his hands
in his pockets, and looked out at the sky.

We shall have a wet day tomorrow."

Just then a tramping of feet on the stairs,
and a fumbling with the handle of the door,
announced Mr. Warren, who came In rather
noisily.

Well, Fane, you are very quiet up here.
How does Miss Fane like her new home  eh ?
She'll soon make it pretty, I bet you. How
did you come to do up this room in such a
gloomy style ? This young lady ought to be
surrounded with roses and lilies and forget-me-nots."


'' She prefers high art and sunflowers,"
said Gerald, turning from the window.

'' Then certainly she ought to have everything
she does prefer. I have left your brother
downstairs over the accounts. He is too devoted
to business, In my opinion. Now I
think your head is none the less clear if you
give it a little rest, spare time and thoughts

to make yourself agreeable, and so I told
him. I said that with a charming lady in
the house, his dry old books shouldn't keep
me any longer, and I advised him to follow
me up without delay. But he's an awful
persevering fellow, that brother of yours.
And too clever  too clever by half, Mr. Fane."

*' He likes his work," said Gerald.

He had strolled back along the room, so
as to stand between Ada and Mr. Warren,
who had arranged himself comfortably in the
largest arm-chair. Gerald did not know when
he had thought the man so repulsive.

"Are you a musician, Miss Fane?" said
Mr. Warren, in his thick unpleasant tones.

"Would you mind playing something?"
said Gerald, going up to his sister.

She looked up imploringly into his face,
flushed and distressed ; all her happy spirit and
fun were gone. Her lips moved, and she said :

'must I?'*

Do, please' said Gerald in the same
undertone.

He stood by her at the piano, while she
played the wild romantic Hungarian March
which she said reminded her of him. Mr.
Warren at first kept time and applauded
loudly, but in the middle of her next piece
she and Gerald were both startled by a
sudden snore. She looked up laughing at
her brother, who was frowning ferociously.

When the music was over, as he slept
comfortably on, the two young people went
quietly out together, and Ada had her first
walk about the old garden in the twilight.
But her question about Miss Meynell was
not answered that evening.

Helen's house.

Theoo looked out from her high window at
that stormy sunset. She saw it through andover
a veil of lurid smoke, which made strange
effects of colour quite new to her eyes.

Mr. Goodall's house stood on high ground,
facing west ; in front of it there was a kind
of small park with trees ; then came the
village of Woodcote, in which old thatched
cottages, some of them half-timbered, were
mixed with ugly rows of new red brick. The
high road ran down to the north of Woodcote
House, and through the chief part of

the village. Lower in the valley it passed
by Mr. Goodall's great pottery works, on the
way to Mainley, which lay to the north again.
All the broad valley which lay west of Woodcote
was traversed by the railway, and one
colliery succeeded another along its length ;
there were brickwork, too, adding their sulk
to the blackness which disfigured
a once pretty country.

Theoo's window, in the new and highest
part of Mr. Goodall's house, had a view across
this valley to hills far distant ; but beyond
the railway, between her and them, there rana
green ridge with a line of Scotch firs and
a group of poplars at the end of them, and
more trees that seemed to cluster round buildings
; beyond these the setting sun certainly
caught some roofs of houses.

Helen had apologised for the smoke that
was to be seen from her cousin's window 

John had planted trees, but they were not
yet grown tall enough to hide it. Theoo said
the smoke was rather beautiful, and she liked
to see it ; at which Helen laughed amiably.

Theoo was very happy that evening. She
had hardly known what it was to be cheerful
all the summer, since the sad afternoon of
the wedding, when Hugh took her away to
his father's deathbed. Colonel North had
lingered on a few days after that, but he was
either unconscious or in great pain ; and after
he died Theoo's only course had been to go
straight to her grandmother. Certainly the
time spent with poor Lady Redcliff had been
neither peace nor rest.

It was pleasant to be with Helen again
dear soft old Nell, always, in her lazy way,
affectionate and comforting, and quite unchanged
by her eccentric step of marrying
John Goodall. It was amusing to see her

perfect content with the worthy man she had
chosen, her seeming unconsciousness of his
defects, her placid satisfaction with everything,
except the smoke, that surrounded her. The
house was most successful. The furniture
was, perhaps, a little too smart and new, too
great a contrast with the old distinguished
shabbiness of Linwood. This was a difficult
point, and Mr. Goodall would not have allowed
dogs in the house, even if Helen had cared
for them, which she did not.

'you and I must scratch and tear about
a little, Theoo," said Helen. 'ewe shall soon
make the things look a little worn and nice.
You may forget sometimes, and let Wool come
in, when John isn't here to drive him out.
John doesn't quite understand, you see ; he
thinks things ought always to be new."

But this, and a few other such small
differences, seemed to be the only things that

ruffled Helen's serenity. The outside of her
house was not by any means disagreeably
new. It was large, and built of red brick.
Part of it might have been a hundred years
old, but all the best rooms had been added
by Mr. Goodall a few years ago, and most of
the front was covered with climbing roses and
clematis. A flight of white steps, with a
fine glaring balustrade, was the ugliest und
most pretentious thing about it ; but the
garden, with large old trees in it, sloped
prettily down to the park, and the flowers
were splendid. The greenhouses, as well as
the yards and stables, would have done credit
to a much larger place. Altogether, many
people might have thought Helen a fortunate
woman. Helen was delighted, for her part,
to have her cousin with her again. She had
thought of her at intervals, all through the
summer. It was true that she had not written

to her much, but Colonel North's death had
been a kind of separation, just as his illness
all that last winter had been. Helen had
always respected Uncle Henry, but she knew
very well that he had never cared for her.
This did not trouble her, but it made it difficult
to sympathise heartily enough with Theoo's
grief at the loss of him.

Then John was a difficulty. He had
begun his married life, like other mistaken
men, by taking an immense interest in his
wife's smallest concerns ; and therefore of
course in her correspondence. He thought
it a duty and privilege to read all her letters.
This bored Helen a little ; she had not been
quite prepared for such absolute possession.
It did not really make much difference to her,
for she hated writing, and had no intimate
friend but Theoo ; but the worst of it was that
John, reading Theoo's very unconventional

letters, became rather prejudiced against her.
He thought Theoo gave herself airs, and that
Helen need not ask her to stay with them
just yet. Before his marriage he had been
meek and respectful about Theoo, but this good
state of mind had passed away.

Helen did not trouble herself to contradict
him much, or to resent these opinions of his.
She was really very fond of him in her way,
and quite appreciated his devotion to herself.
She therefore dropped the subject of her friend
Theoo, till one day Hugh North's letter came,
giving such a melancholy account of her.

This brought out all the kindness and
good-nature for which John Goodall had been
given credit by his new relations. He was
going to London on business, and he himself
proposed that he should go to Lady Redcliff's,
and bring Theoo away with him.

** And it's no use doing things by halves,"

VOL. I.

said he. " When you have got her, you had
better keep her a good long time."

Helen smiled on him with great approval,
and so he had carried out his plan, with satisfaction
to himself and pity for Theoo, which
was much increased by his interview with her
grandmother.

It was nearly a year since the two friends
had seen much of each other, and they seemed
to be back in that happy old time  that time
when Theoo's freer life had sometimes been a
subject of secret envy to Helen, who was
getting tired of the rule of her stepmother.
No Mr. Goodall had appeared on the scene
then.

After all, Theoo saw, and she was not sorry
to confess it, that her cousin was contented.
Helen said she was happy, but some one has
said that those who have never seen happiness
may pass through life mistaking content for

her. Perhaps this depends on their own
characters ; perhaps natures Hke Helen's are
not deep enough to hold happiness if she
comes to them.

Helen came downstairs again late that
night, leaving Theoo in her room, and found
her husband, who did not smoke, still sitting
in the drawing-room. He was reading, but
he laid down his book, and was quite ready
to welcome her. He wanted to tell her all
that he had been doing in London ; it was a
new thing to have his wife's attention taken
away from him, and he had not enjoyed that
evening much, and was a little inclined to
regret all he had so generously said about '' a
long visit ; " but Helen knew how to drive
these selfish thoughts away, for John was very
much in love with her still.

'well, you have got your friend, so I
hope you are contented," he said at last when

L 2

he had given her a full account of his
adventures.

"Quite contented, thank you," said Helen
with a small yawn. "Isn't she handsome?"

Very, I suppose, in her own style ; but
she is gone off since the wedding."

"Well, a little thinner; but she has had
a good deal of bother, you know, and she
looked better than usual that day. She is
a most excellent creature, John. How she
puts up with that awful grandmother of hers
is a mystery to me ! "

She is awful," said John in a slightly
lowered tone, as if Lady Redcliff might have
come in at the door. " But somehow, do
you think there is any likeness "

Likeness between my Theoo and that
horrid old woman ! " exclaimed his wife.
My dear boy, you are out of your
mind."

No ; I'll soon tell you what I mean.
Your cousin is not of a meek disposition."

*' She Is tremendously generous and forgiving,
and has not a shadow of conceit."

*' Ah ! but she Is not meek  there Is no
humility about her."

*' I don't know that. She thinks less of
herself than I do."

I am not disputing the fact that she Is
a perfect character," said John with a grave
smile. " But if you will let me finish what
I was saying "

*' Make haste ; Fm very sleepy."

'' Yes ; I was going to say that I saw no
signs of her giving in to Lady Redcllff. I
should say that she made life bearable by
holding her own, and having her own way,
and I think that In strength of will, positiveness,
and so on, she is probably a match
for her grandmother. A good thing too.

A manageable young woman would be miserable,
cowed, a mere slave, In the hands ot
an old witch like that."

''Oh, as to that, nobody except Uncle
Henry could ever manage Theoo, and that
was just because she was fond of him."

I thought so. She would be difficult
to manage," said Mr. Goodall. "And as she
is fond of you, perhaps you will be able to
keep her from making friends with these
Fanes."

'' Don't torment yourself about that," said
Helen serenely. " I see nothing so dreadful,
after all, in her trying to help the girl."

Nor should I, if I liked the connection."

'' Connection ! " said Helen, making a
little face. " Well, now you do frighten
me. Your young Fane certainly did admire
her very much at the wedding  but it was
not my fault that he came, remember."

I quite acknowledge that It was mine,"
said John, reddening up to his hair. '' But
look here, Helen, if you see the remotest
possibility, your cousin had better go back
to her grandmother at once. We must run
no risks of that kind''

'' You really are actually frightened," said
Helen. '* My dear, if Mr. Fane chose to be
such an idiot, he might as well cry for the
moon. The man doesn't exist who is good
enough for Theoo. Can you look at her face
and not see how proud she is, how she would
scorn any poor whipper-snapper who dared

One thing, John, please remember 

never make a joke on that subject to her. If
she understood you she would be very angry

Mr. Goodall smiled.

" Well, I don't think Fane is a fool," he
said, *' and she has not much money, which
makes it safer, for they are a scheming lot,

I suspect. I'm sorry, though, that she has
made acquaintance with them. You had
better not let It go any further. I don't want
you to go and see them, and she will hardly
go by herself, I Imagine."

I can't say what she may do," said
Helen.

'' I was put out by the sight of those two
fellows," he went on after a pause, 'rand I
said one or two things about Litton which
I rather regret now. I have no proof of anything
against him, and It Is unbusinesslike to
put one's suspicions Into words, as I did to
your cousin to-day. I said something about
LItton's having been generous with other
people's money. It would not do for that
to come to his ears  you understand," he
said, looking at Helen anxiously.

What do you mean ? " she said, yawning.

Would it be as well to say to your

cousin In case she should meet Miss

Fane again "

'* What enormous caution ! " said Helen.
Speak to her if you like, certainly, but I
am quite sure she has forgotten every word
you said long ago. And if she remembers
it, she is neither wicked nor foolish enough
to repeat it."

*' Ah, well, ladies don't always think what
they are saying, but I dare say you are right,"
said the excellent John, a little disconcerted.

DOWN INTO THE VALLEY.

Helen was a consistently lazy person, both
in mind and body. She never walked if
she could help it, and young as she was, a
morning's stroll about the garden was often
enough to tire her for the afternoon. But
the day after Theoo came she was unusually
active, and they stayed out all the morning
with the dogs in the park and garden. Theoo
wanted to see everything, and it amused
Helen to show her old friend all her new
possessions. They went to the stable, and
inspected Aster after his journey. Helen had

learnt from Theoo long ago to be at home
among horses and dogs ; these were among
the tastes which Mrs. Fraser thought useless
and unfeminine, blaming Colonel North for
encouraging them in his adopted child.

At luncheon Mr. Goodall proposed that
they should go out for a drive In the afternoon,
but the day was Inclined to be rainy
and windy, and Helen preferred staying at
home.

'' Go to your work and leave us In
peace," she said, smiling at John. ''Theo
and I will be quite happy indoors ; we
have plenty to talk about, and after all,
there are no pretty drives."

"You don't look for them; there are
more than you think. You make no use
of the horses at all," he said, a lite
Injured.

'' I told you not to buy them for me,"

said Helen placidly. 'you didn't suppose
I should be one of those martyrs who exercise
their horses every afternoon ? Take
Theoo out, and let her drive, If you want to
make her happy."

'' I should be very glad, but the carriage
Is not suited for that kind of thing."

Poor Theoo ! We are much too tame
and civilised for you," said Helen.

Will you let me walk down with you
and see your works ?" said Theoo, looking up
at Mr. Goodall, whose face brio-tenet ; fora
moment he had seemed to feel as If he
understood neither of them.

'any other day I should be most happy,"
he said. " But I have to go to Malnley this
afternoon. I will take you all over them
some day, If you like. They might Interest
you, If you have never seen anything of the
kind."

" I know they would Interest me," said
Theoo.

"It Is going to rain, and you are to
stay quietly with me this afternoon," said
Helen.

She was perfectly contented with this
arrangement, and rather liked a wet day,
which gave her an excuse for being really
comfortable. A novel, a sofa, perfect liberty
to talk, read, or sleep as she pleased  Helen
wanted very little more to make her life
happy.

Theoo had often rebelled violently against
this state of mind in her cousin, and had
now and then succeeded In making her
ashamed of It. She saw that Helen's marriage
had not made her at all more energetic ; but
that day she did not speak her mind.

They were not quite the old two ; perhaps
they never would be again.

Looking at Helen's soft face on the
cushion, the book drooping in her hand as if
she hardly cared to hold it, Theoo felt rather sad.

The rain dashed in storms against the
windows ; they talked a little at intervals ;
then Helen turned over a page ; then her
eyelids dropped for a few minutes ; then she
woke up and talked again. At last she fell
sound asleep, and then Theoo got up and went
to the window.

As she looked out, the clouds were growing
thinner and hurrying faster every moment ;
light began to shine in the distance, beyond
the wild flying mist of rain ; the hills, faraway,
were in sunshine now, and the whole air
began to be flooded with a yellow brilliancy.

Theoo watched it for a few minutes, and
then turned round to look once more at the
smart, but dismal room, and her cousin asleep
on the sofa.

'A little later, she and Wool walked down
the drive together, and turned into the village
street. The good mothers of Woodcote, looking
out of their doors when the rain stopped,
watched her with curiosity and interest as
she passed  tall, erect, graceful, walking fast,
going away into the country. They never saw
Mrs. Goodall march off alone like this ; in
fact, they hardly ever saw her at all, except
driving by, for Mr. Goodall was nervous, about
infectious diseases, and did not like his wife
to go into cottages, though he was generous to
the people, and ready to help them in any
other way. Some of these women who
watched Theoo knew that Mrs. Goodall's
cousin was staying with her. It was the
fashion at Woodcote to think Helen a beauty.
They were not so sure about this young
lady ; she was of a type they did not so
well understand. Looking so proud, and

straight, and fearless, with her large black
dog running by her side, these good people
were a little alarmed at Theoo.

Only one girl, who had had great trouble,
and who was crossing the road just then, and
spoke to Wool, and met Theoo's eyes with
a smile, gave It as her opinion that this lady
was worth a dozen of Mrs. Goodall.

Theoo wished to explore the country, but
she did not feel at all inclined to go down
the straight high-road, between rows of new
houses, and past the great pottery works. In
the middle of the village, near the church, a
lane struck off to the left, and she turned
along this, while the rain came flashing down
again between her and the sun, and up to the
left a great arch of rainbow rose above Mr.
Goodall's trees and chimneys. The western
distance, which attracted her, was all in a
wet golden haze ; even the colliery smoke was

gilded, and hung about in the valley, a dark
beautiful mist. In this part of the village the
houses were old and thatched, with thick
whitewashed walls ; broken flights of steps led
up to them ; their little bright gardens were
perched on banks of grass and stones. Here
and there was an opening into a field, with
a rough stile, and a bit of tall straggling hedge,
red with hawthorn-berries. All this was old
Woodcote of many years ago, before engineers
and manufacturers had found out its
hidden treasures. Perhaps  for he was a man
of this country  Mr. Goodall's grandfather
had lived and brought up his children under
one of these thatched roofs.

Theoo and Wool followed the lane, which
went climbing slowly southward along the
high ground, gradually becoming more stony
and rough, and leaving the houses behind.
Up here there were one or two small home-vol.

I. M

Steady built of sandstone, which cropped out
pretty often In the road Itself. One was a
little farm with red pigs routing about In Its
tumble-down yard ; another had a timber-yard,
and behind It the fields seemed to fall
steeply and suddenly away Into the valley,
where the white smoke of a train was stealing
along now.

Theoo walked on fast. She liked the cool
rainy air, the freshness of the high ground,
with Its foreground of ruddy hedges, and distance
full of golden mystery. Her spirits
rose ; she was happy, she felt free and adventurous,
and wondered how any one could call
this country dull, or ugly, or uninteresting.
The rough untidy lane was far enough from
civilisation, certainly ; there was a different
life stirring from any she had ever known
before, for her home with Colonel North had
been in the rich luxurious peace of Kent, and

Linwood, too, had dark palings, and neat
roads, and model cottages about it. This
was a strange sort of country  not lonely,
and yet wild ; dishevelled, hard, pulled about
by the rough hands that made their living
out of it ; yet the children were rosy and
smiling, and a merry firelight streamed out
of the cottage doors, and plenty of trees grew
in the hedgerows, and the sun shone on
pleasant hills and valleys, from which the mist
was clearing away every moment.

That ridge with its Scotch firs and poplars,
which Theoo had first seen from her window,
seemed very near her now ; she could see it
across the valley, a mile or two away ; the
roofs of one or two farmhouses peeped out
among the trees. But between her and it
lay the valley, with its railway and mines and
brickwork. She could hear the working of
the engines, and could look down upon the

M 2

black groups of buildings, the great waste banks,
the pools of water. Every now and then all
seemed hidden in smoke and mist ; then a
clearer view would come, as a fresh wind raised
the curtain and drove it along the valley.

Presently she came to the top of a lane,
which turned out of her own lane, and went
down a deep pitch into the valley. Wool
ran on that way at once, and his mistress
followed him. The road dived down in a
hollow of its own between rocky banks, with
low oak-trees almost arching overhead, their
roots half bare among the crumbling stones.
Blackberry bushes hung down in a thick tapestry,
and the sun now filled the hollow with
flickering lights and shadows. Below, where
the banks were not so steep, the road, shining
with rain and yellow sunlight, was like a
golden path sweeping down into the valley.

Theoo went down, following her road without

much thought of where it was taking her,
only conscious of a happy freedom and the
joy of discovery. She had met no one since
she left the village, but with Wool she never
felt lonely. She went down, down, and found
herself descending upon a large colliery which
to her eyes looked deserted. She saw great
black wheels high up in the air, but they were
not going round ; the long roofs, the mounds,
the low round brick-kilns, with slow black
smoke stealing up from one or two of them,
all seemed to be uninhabited and left to take
care of themselves. She had expected to see
a crowd of colliers with grimy faces hurrying
here and there, and to hear a Babel of rough
voices ; she saw nothing but machinery and
buildings, and heard nothing but a low guttural
noise of pumping and fizzing, which
went on by itself, to all seeming, without
any human agency.

She stood In the lane for a few minutes,
some distance above the gate of the colliery.
She could still look down on it, and on the
railway beyond, and she was aware that there
were more chimneys and buildings to the left,
further up the valley.

The immediate neighbourhood of her colliery
did not look inviting. Its gate opened
into a road with deep ruts of black mud, with
wild rank grass and coarse weeds growing on
each side. Just beyond, by the roadside, there
was a great pond of poisonous-looking water,
with green and yellow lights in it. This pond
was gradually spreading itself; the road had
been raised above it, but was damp and
spongy and full of holes, and on the other
side a flat meadow was becoming a marsh,
out of whose unnatural greenness some sad
black trunks stood up with a dismal ghostly
air against the sky ; the roots had been

sapped and poisoned and killed by the creeping
water.

Still all was silent and lonely, and at this
moment the sun was covered by wild clouds
sweeping up from the west; there was a sudden
chill In the wind, and Wool, as his mistress
paused before walking on Into this desolation,
came and sat down beside her, and gave a
small whine.

You don't want to go back, Wool ? " said
Theoo. *' This Is all so very odd and savage,
we must discover a little more. Don't you
like It much better than London ? "

Wool got up and wagged his tall. He was
not quite sure : he only knew that he liked
whatever she chose to do, and he followed
her obediently down the last little slope of
the hill. She stopped again at the gate ; there
was still no one to be seen ; she pushed It
open and turned Into the black road. She

was soon In the midst of the buildings,
crossing Iron rails on which some trucks were
standing, and following narrow muddy ways
between long low sheds, in which she now
perceived that bricks were drying. Then she
found herself In the warm light that poured
out from the red glowing furnace of a brick-kiln.
Then two or three wild-looking boys, all
besmeared with clay, crossed her path and
stared at her and the dog as if they were
creatures from another country. Theoo stopped
the tallest and most intelligent-looking of these
boys, and asked him if any work was going
on.

'' Yes," he said.

Where are the men ?" said Theoo.

Down the pit."

*' Does anybody  can I go down the
pit ?" she said dreamily, fixing her eyes on
the boy.

He grinned, and looked at her from head
to foot. Then his handsome smiHng eyes
met hers.

*' 'Taint fit for you," he said.

"But I should like it," said Theoo.
*' Where is the pit? Can you take me
down ', "

He shook his head.

'yonder," he said, and pointed to a
black and gray bank and a high stage of
machinery.

'down in there?" said Theoo. "And
if you work here, why are not you black ? "

I work in the clay," he said, looking
away as if to hide his amusement ; to him
she was evidently a new and charming and
refined sort of idiot.

"Well, thank you," said Theoo. She
was looking at him, considering whether he
was too old and too nice to care for sixpence.

Where do you live ? "

"Up at Deerhurst," he said, nodding
his head westward.

*ris that Deerhurst where the trees are?"

"Yes."

How very near! " said Theoo.

Suddenly, to end this strange little talk,
a wild shower came flying down over the
colliery with such hurried violence that she
looked round for shelter. She was stepping
into the dark recesses of the nearest shed,
when the door of a low red building behind
her opened. She had been standing with
her back to this little house, hardly noticing
it, as she talked to the boy, and even he
had been too much interested in her to
see that somebody was looking out of the
window  somebody whose glance would have
sent him away to his work in pretty quick
time.

But now the door was opened, and a
grave young man came out Into the rain.

*the office is not comfortable, but If

you would care to take shelter ' he

began In a low Indifferent voice, which yet
had a little effort In It, and though his eyes
were quiet enough, a flush came up Into his
face as Theoo looked at him.

She held out her hand, smiling, and a
little startled too.

*' Mr. Fane! This Is very funny," she
said.

"Yes; you remember me .' That's the
funniest part of all, somehow," said Gerald,
his eyes brightening suddenly. '' Do come
in. I have a chair for you, If there is nothing
else. Come in, old fellow. Your one dog,
isn't he ?  and he deserves the honour."

The sweet ready recognition had raised
the poor fellow's spirits to a wild height

of joy. Ashamed of his squalid surroundings,
of his shabby coat even, for he was almost
a boy, he had watched her from the window
with a half resolve to hide himself, and to
take no advantage of the accident which must
have brought her there. But the rain made
that course impossible.

Theoo was very much amused, and really
pleased to see Mr. Fane again. The thought
of Mr. Goodall and his opinions crossed her
mind without interfering at all with her
enjoyment of this little adventure. She satin
a very hard chair in the dark gloomy
office, looking quite as beautiful, Gerald
thought, as when he had first seen her
radiant in white and flowers in the chancel
of Linwood Church on that happy, miserable
wedding-day. She sat there and talked
delightfully, while he stood by the window
and tried to talk without looking at her, afraid

that she might see the wild thoughts which
were flying through his mind. But he need
not have been afraid of any such discernment
on Theoo's part. His thoughts did not
at present trouble her at all ; besides, poor
boy ! he had been well trained in hiding
them successfully.

AFTER THE RAIN.

They talked at first on their old subject of
dogs, and especially about Wool, who sat
between them, looking intelligently from one
to the other. Gerald would have liked to ask
Theoo what turns of road, and fate, and fancy
had brought her into the middle of his colliery,
the last place on earth where a visitor to Mr.
Goodall might have been expected to appear ;
but for this very reason he felt a little awkwardness,
and asked no questions. After all, he
had not room for much curiosity in his mind ;
the charm and wonder of seeing her there
drove out all other feelings.

Presently she began to remark on what she
had seen outside the furnaces  the clay-covered
boys, the quiet way in which so much
work was carried on.

'' And are you the head of it all ? " she
said.

'' I am the manager. I'm paid," said
Gerald. '' My brother and another man are
the chiefs of the concern."

''Do you go down the pit?" said Theoo,
'' or do you stay all day in this room '. "

'' No," he said smiling. '' It doesn't look,
does it, like a place to stay all day in ? I go
down the pit pretty often to see that all is
right there. This isn't our best room. Miss
Meynell. There is a better one inside ; the
clerks work out here ; but it is locked to-day,
and my brother has the key in his pocket. I
wish he hadn't."

This is quite good enough for a shelter

from the rain," said Theoo. '' But you must be
very glad to go home in the evening."

'' Yes ; don't you think it must be a degraded
sort of life ? " said Gerald, looking at
her sadly.

'' I was not thinking so," said Theoo. After
a moment's pause, she went on : "How is
your sister . Did she tell you how we met
yesterday ? "

'' She could talk of nothing but your kindness.
And from her description, and from the
fact of your being with Mr. Goodall, I guessed
who you must be."

I was not able to do anything for her,
after all," said Theoo. "And is she going to
live always with you ? "

At that moment some one passed the
window, and Gerald, without answering her,
rushed out into the little passage.

What are you doing in there 't Are you

ready ? " asked a rather pleasant voice. '' I
have left Warren to entertain Ada in the road.

She's awfully disgusted. She had better

What dog is that ? ''*

Gerald answered with a few muttered
words. Theoo felt suddenly a little vexed
with both him and herself; the shower had
been nothing ; though the office window did
not show much light, it was evidently over
now. She got up, and walked out with her
coldest and quietest air into the passage, encountering
Mr. Litton at the door.

There was certainly a likeness between
the brothers. Gerald Fane, when he was a
few years older, might look as hard and worn
and unscrupulous as this man, whose bold,
shrewd, sneering face was still rather handsome,
and not altogether disagreeable. Theoo,
though she looked at him, was quite unconscious
of the slight surprised smile which

VOL. I. N

greeted her as she walked out of the office
door. Gerald was only too well aware of
it, and his eyes flashed, but he kept his
temper down, and introduced the two to each
other.

'you are an old acquaintance of my
brother's, I think. Miss Meynell," said Clarence
Litton, as he and Gerald walked with Theoo
towards the gate.

*' Yes," said Theoo. '' But I do not know
this country at all, and Mr. Fane appeared
at the right moment, and gave me shelter
from the rain. You were telling me about
your sister," she said, turning to Gerald. '* Is
she really going to live with you ? "

*' I hope so," he answered.

*' A sister like ours is a great anxiety,"
said Mr. Litton. '' We must try this experiment
; but I am not sure that these two are
not too young to take care of each other.

Don't you think so, Miss Meynell, from what
you have seen of them ? "

'' I don't know. I hardly think Mr. Fane
would have left his sister for so many hours
at the station yesterday," said Theoo very
quietly.

But she just lifted her eyes, and Gerald
caught a glance which made him silently happy.

I can't say what he might have done,
but certainly it was wrong of me," said
Clarence Litton. '' But I had motives  I
had ends in view ; and even one's sister must
give way sometimes to business arrangements ;
she may not be the worse off in the end ;
and I think she has forgiven me now. She
ought to remember that she might never
have spoken to you if it had not been for me."

*' Oh yes  we were coming down into the
same neighbourhood," said Theoo.

*' And you " began Mr. Litton ; but he

N 2

checked himself, with a glance at Gerald, for
the young fellow looked a little dangerous, and
the end of his sentence might have bordered
on being impertinent.

It would be a fine thing to chaff Gerald
about by-and-by, that opportune shelter from
the rain, which, after all, had stopped almost
as soon as it began ; but with a girl like this,
it would not do to approach within a mile of a
joke on the subject. Mr. Litton had instinct
enough to know that, though of late years his
acquaintance had not been among very refined
women.

As they came down the muddy road to
the gate, Ada Fane, who was standing therewith
Mr. Warren, hurried eagerly to meet
them. Her companion stood staring, and
amusing himself with a low whistle. Gerald
had never before felt so bitterly ashamed of
him, or quite perceived what a repulsive object

he was. He tried to stand between him and
Miss Meynell, that she might not see him, and
devoutly hoped that Clarence would not dare
to introduce him to her.

'' I did not expect to see you again so
soon," said Theoo, taking Ada's hand.

The girl was almost breathless with delight.
She was entirely mystified ; she could not
imagine what had brought her friend here,
but she looked from her to her brother with
quick shy pleasure.

* Oh, Gerald, you were right then ; it is
Miss Meynell, and she remembers you ! "

With Clarence sardonically smiling in the
background, Gerald could not help flushing
as he answered :

*' Yes ; it came on to rain, and Miss Mey-
nell happened to be walking through the
colliery, and I looked out of the office, quite
by accident "

He stopped, flushing a little more, for nobody
but Clarence seemed to be listening to him.

I am very fond of walking about and
discovering things," Theoo explained, looking
down into Ada's fair wondering face. " I
meant to discover you some day, but this is
sooner than I hoped."

Mr. Warren stood by the gate and stared
at her as she walked through. She did not
even give him a glance, but, with the slightly
imperious air which sometimes belonged to
her quite unconsciously, she took possession
of Ada, and walked on with her along the
dismal black lane towards the railway. The
three men found themselves left behind.
Gerald walked apart from the others, with his
eyes on the ground. Mr. Warren began
grinning and asking questions.

That's a fine young woman ; where did
you meet her, Fane ? Does she take an

Interest In brlckmaking ? It's the same
that came down with Goodall yesterday.
A relation of his wife's, I suppose. Now
I'm singular, I dare say, in admiring Miss
Ada the most of that pair. As to you, ;,
Fane, if that's your taste, I don't wonder
you feel yourself above your work, poor
chap ! I say, has she got any money ? "

He's sensitive, don't chaff him, Warren,"
said Clarence, having caught some muttering
under Gerald's breath, which conveyed
hints of throwing somebody into the ditch.

It's a pity if he can't take a joke,"
said Warren. 'tell you what, Litton," as
the young man suddenly went on with long
strides and overtook Miss Meynell and her
sister ; '' that brother of yours is the worst
feature in this concern."

'' He does his work ; we have nothing to
complain of"

'' He does his work, but he hates it all
the time. He hasn't a bit of gratitude in
his nature. Where would he be, I should
like to know, if it wasn't for you and me ?
And he's got a nasty cross temper. That
little sister of his will be an angel if she
can put up with him, as she must for a year
or two, I suppose."

Thanks ; don't trouble yourself about
that, they get on perfectly well."

*' I hate all that disgusting conceit in a
fellow who owes other people the very rags
he stands up in," Mr. Warren went on
grumbling, on which Clarence burst into a
short laugh.

*' After all, Warren, he's my brother."

** Your half-brother, and you think a great
deal too much of him for your own interests.
What are they stopping for ? "

After passing under the railway, the lane

made a turn under some large oak-trees,
beyond which lay a brown field of standing
sheaves, and then the ground sloped up to
another road and some red cottages, which
were the outskirts of Deerhurst. The lane
here began to climb, and the three young
people had paused at the top of a steep little
hill, where a footpath led back across a
clover-field to the railway, and so up and
along the eastern ridge to Woodcote.

"The short cut to Woodcote," said Mr.

Litton, as he and his companion followed them
up the lane. " Miss Meynell's best way back,

which no doubt Gerald is going to show her."
"Meynell! is that her name?" said Mr.

Warren, looking sharply at him. " I have

heard that name before. I say, didn't one of

those Norths marry a Meynell ? "

Clarence Litton's yellow skin turned a little

yellower.

I think so," he said quietly. " It did
not strike me at once, but I believe they are
all dead."

I'm alive, though," said Mr. Warren.

Why do you remind me of that ? " said
Clarence, walking along with his eyes on the
ground and his hands in his pockets.

For two reasons. First, that you may
not forget that you have a friend capable of
giving advice  and my advice is, in case
of accidents, don't let those two charming
young idiots of yours become intimate with
that young lady. That's good advice, isn't
It?"

Well ? " said Clarence coolly.

Also that you may not forget all you owe
me, and how I mean to be paid. I sometimes
think your memory is getting short on that
subject. It's an old bargain, though, and I
mean it to be carried out."

I don't forget anything," said Litton impatiently.
'' There is one condition though,
you must remember."

'only a matter of form."
I am not so sure of that," muttered his
partner. "Well, Warren," he said, in his usual
voice, 'don't be in such a fool of a hurry,
and don't lose your temper. I thought so ;
here is my sister coming back alone.'

Poor Ada had felt herself a little injured
when Gerald told her she had better go back ;
a walk with him and Miss Meynell would
have been so much pleasant than one with
Clarence and Mr. Warren, who would persist
at staring at her and paying her compliments.
But Gerald knew best, she was sure of that ;
and when he said : " Clarence will want you ;
you had better not come with me," she submitted
at once, only looking a little sad as
she wished Miss Meynell good-bye, and

watched the two as they set off across the
field.

Theoo, who felt a real Interest in the child,
had asked her one or two questions In the
few minutes they were alone, and had found
out that life with her brother was not yet
quite the bright thing she had imagined It
yesterday. "The people that come to the
house  business people "  Ada had spoken
of these with a sort of shrinking, and Theoo
was conscious enough of the appearance of
Mr. Warren to feel strong sympathy. Neither
did she care at all for the looks of Mr. Litton,
and she thought that John Goodall's opinion
of the two men was probably just enough.
Gerald Fane seemed to her so very different,
that the connection between these four became
something queer, hard to understand, and Interesting
to the last degree.

She was dreaming of this as she walked

on with Gerald across the railway and up
the high open fields that led towards Woodcote.
She could not very well question him
about his circumstances, and he, not knowing
how her thoughts were occupied, was afraid
that he had bored her by offering to show
her the way home.

But presently she looked into her guide's
face, as he was helping her over a stile, and
was roused to a smile by the sort of reproachful
sadness she saw there.

*' I was thinking of your sister," she said
hastily to explain herself. '' You must be
very fond of her."

'' Well, you see, she and I have nobody
else ; and it's not much good my being fond
of her."

'* I am fond of her too," said Theoo.

"Are you.-" he said rather vaguely.
'' That's awfully kind of you."

'* Oh no, I couldn't help it. But now,
as I have told you that, may I say what I
think?"

'' Thank you, If you will," he said in a
low voice.

The things she said sounded so strange,
so sweet, she looked so grave and earnest,
and without the smallest affectation was so
different from everybody else In the world,
that he felt It was not only her beauty which
made him literally long to throw himself at
her feet.

'rit Is very nice for her to live with you,"
said Theoo, and her slight emphasis made him
flush and smile. *' But if I were you  do
forgive me, it is no business of mine "

'' Please go on," said Gerald very meekly.
Then he added as she hesitated a little :
You only saw that man Warren as you
passed him just now, but you think I ought

to kick him downstairs. I should Hke to,
but one can't always indulge one's self."

'' No," said Theoo, '' I suppose not. But
at least, if I were you, I should keep him
out of my sister's way, if I had a dear little
sister like that."

'you have no sisters?"

'' I have no one at all, and perhaps that
is why I am so very impertinent. Because
I know nothing at all of you, or your arrangements
 and possibly that friend of your
brother's may be nice, though he looks rough ;
but I think, somehow, he annoys your sister,
and you will agree with me that she ought
to be happy."

'' I wish I had the means of making her
so," said Gerald. '' But a fate pursues some
people. Miss Meynell ; you know nothing of
such lives as ours. I can't be happy, and
I can't make her so, and unless we keep

Warren in a good temper we may find ourselves
starving. He gives me my work ; I
can't quarrel with him, or forbid him the
house because Ada doesn't like him."

*' I am so sorry," said Theoo, after a moment's
silence, for there was an almost passionate
sadness in the young man's voice.
*' I am so very sorry I said anything at all.
I might have known you would do everything
you could."

The walk was very short, and they were
close upon Woodcote. Gerald did not answer
this last speech of hers.

'you know the way now," he said; "and
I think Mr. and Mrs. Goodall are coming
to meet you. Good-bye."

They were only a few yards beyond the
last stile. Theoo, at the moment, could think
of nothing but her self-reproach. She let him
go without a word. He was over the stile

instantly, and half across the next field. She
would almost have called him back, but John
and Helen were really coming along the road,
so she only turned her head and looked after
him as he hurried away into the west, which
was now all brilliant, the golden gate of her
dreams.

''My dear Theoo!" said Helen.
The words were a thousand remonstrances,
while Mr. Goodall, too, looked after the young
man, and coughed a surprised disapproval.

VOL. I.

MR. Goodwill HAS HIS WAY.

'' You won't mind my saying so, Theoo dear,
but it really does not do to be quite so odd,"
said Helen, with the superiority of a married
woman.

They were in the drawing-room after
dinner, and Mr. Goodall had not yet come
in. Helen was looking down as she spoke,
her long eyelashes were drooping, her fair
head shone in the lamplight ; her mouth was
smiling, for she was very much amused at
what her cousin had been saying. She was
not vexed, for she thought Theoo was a little
ashamed of her prank that afternoon. Theoo

had explained how it all happened, and had
told her what she and Mr. Fane had talked
about on the way home ; this seemed quite
a strange piece of condescension, and very
satisfactory.

Theoo's meekness encouraged Helen to
moralise a little, in hopes of checking these
adventures for the future.

Am I odd ? How do you mean ? " said
Theoo.

'' Well, my dear, talking over a man's
family affairs with him, the second time you
have seen him. I dare say he took it very
nicely, but don't you think he must have been
rather surprised ? "

*' I was afraid he would be. I begged his
pardon," said Theoo. "Yes, I am sorry for
some reasons. It seemed to remind him of
so many tiresome things, poor boy ! I don't
think he really minded, though."

o 2

'' Perhaps he felt that your interest was a
compliment," said Helen, smiling still. "Some
people like being pitied and fussed over, but
I think," she added with sudden seriousness,
'* it is a dangerous game, Theoo, for a girl
like you."

She stopped and looked up at her cousin,
but Theoo seemed hardly to have heard her ;
she was leaning forward on a table, with
Caldecott's last picture-book before her, her
hand shading her eyes. Helen thought she
might as well go on a little further ; her
husband's influence had made her anxious,
by some means or other, to throw cold water
on Theoo's acquaintance with the Fanes.

You amuse me," she said, '' when you
talk of Mr. Fane as 'poor boy.' When I
saw him at the wedding he looked like anything
but that. I am pretty sure he is older
than you think, and very much less simple and

soft-hearted than you think. He has gone
through a good deal before he came Into these
parts. But perhaps the next time you see him
he will confide the story of his life. When do
you expect to meet him again, Theoo ? "

Theoo did not answer for a moment, and
Helen was almost afraid that she had gone
too far ; she was venturing on the verge of
those jokes which experience had taught her
that Theoo would not bear, even from her.

But Theoo was not thinking at all of herself
that evening, and it did not occur to her
to be angry.

'* He looked younger to-day than at the
wedding," she said quietly. '* I dare say
you are right, though ; he may have gone
through a good deal, but of course that does
not matter to us. What does matter is his
sister, obliged to be in the house with those
men. I don't like his brother at all  still

he is the brother, and he is not unkind to
her  but that other man is quite out of the
question."

'*My child," said Helen sorrowfully, "are
you going to make it your mission to rescue
all the girls who have horrid men in the
house with them ? You had better build a
sort of orphanage, and set up an order of
women to look after them, and be yourself
the first lady abbess."

There might be many worse ways of
spending one's life," said Theoo.

Helen laughed a little.

No doubt," she said. " But I think
you might find a worse case than Miss
Fane's to begin with. She has two brothers
to take care of her ; both of them are supposed
to be kind to her, one perfectly devoted.
I'm sorry, but I can't screw out much sympathy
for her. If I could, I should be more

sorry that both you and I will have to let
her alone."

'' Why ? " said Theoo, taking her hand
away from her eyes, and looking at Helen
with an earnestness which was a little difficult
to meet.

'* Why, my dear," said Helen, and coming
quickly across to the sofa where her cousin
was sitting, she put her arm round her and
kissed her in her old soft coaxing way ;
why," she said, '' I know John better than
you do, Theoo, and when he wishes a thing
seriously, I know he has some good reason
for it. He is not hard or unkind, but he
is very sensible. He does not wish me to
know these people, and so, Theoo, don't you
understand, you can hardly see much of
them while you are staying with me. Of
course he knows that to-day was an accident,
and, anyhow, you perhaps didn't clearly see

how decided he is about it. I really am very
sorry, if you have taken a fancy to them,"
she said affectionately, looking up into her
friend's face.

Theoo had coloured a little, and there was a
line in her forehead, but she could not be really
angry with Helen, however stupid and unreasonable
she might think Mr. Goodall.
Helen had found the right means of getting
her own way. Theoo bent and kissed her soft
cheek.

*' All right, Nell. I won't walk that way
again'' she said. *rand now let us drop the
subject, please."

It seemed like an easy victory, and Helen
was satisfied. She wished for nothing better
than to drop the subject. Theoo might go on
thinking about these people ; most likely she
would, in her own foolish romantic way ; but as
long as she did not talk about them, and did

not attempt to carry her Quixotic fancies into
action, her thoughts did not matter much.
Helen had every reason to be satisfied.

For a few days after this adventure, Theoo
was, perhaps, a Httle more dreamy than usual, a
little indifferent about going out, and seeing
more of the neighbourhood; but one day she
seemed to wake to a consciousness of her
shortcomings, and a change came over her
which gratified Mr. Goodall. She asked him
to take her over his works, and spent a whole
afternoon there with him in the hot sheds
and workroom, among the wheels, and the
clay-heaps, and the smoking furnaces. She
talked to the potters at their work, to the red-grime
boys who were fetching and carrying,
to the rough girls who sat painting. The work
was all rather rough, for Mr. Goodall's clay
was not of a sort to make china, and the people
naturally were rough too. Those girls stared

at Theoo, and looked at each other, and glanced
aside at the master, whose few words to them
had always been entirely business-like. Some
of them were inclined to laugh at the strange
experience, but they looked at Theoo again, and
softened and grew grave in spite of themselves.
Mrs. Goodall had walked through the rooms
once since she came, but without much interest,
and with very great dislike of the dirt, the
noise, the heat, and the staring of the work-people.
Her light dress was more suited for a
tennis-party ; her lip curled with disgust at the
whole thing, and she spoke to nobody but her
husband.

Yet they liked seeing her ; she was a
pretty thing to look at, and their staring
was all admiration. One or two pretty
girls tried their best, on following Sundays
and holidays, to copy her dress and air.
She was quite their idea of what a lady

ought to be ; far more within their comprehension
than this friend of hers, whose beauty
was of a kind they did not understand, and
who stopped and looked them in the face
with rather sad eyes, and asked questions
which confused them, and took their work
in her slight hands, asking how it was done.
When she and Mr. Goodall had passed on
there were great arguments in the workshops.


'' But she don't look like t'other one, and
my word, if I was a lady, wouldn't I wear
a smarter frock nor that ! " was the opinion
of the prettiest girl in the works, who had
been trying, with great success, her admirers
thought, to copy Mrs. Goodall.

'' Ah, that's all you look at, you young
'uns. Now I say she's right down nice,"
said an older woman, to whom Tho had
talked for several minutes.

'don't you like having all those people?"
said Theoo to Mr. Goodall as he walked back
with her up the hill.

*' I must have them, till I can get all the
work done by machinery," said John. '' No,
I don't like them. Those girls especially area
rough lot."

'' I thought some of them had such good
faces," she said. '' Machinery ! That would
be very uninteresting ; and, besides, how
would they all live 1 "

That is an unpractical argument, you
know, against machinery."

'' I should like to have great works,"
said Theoo after a minute, 'rand no machines
at all. I should employ hundreds of people.'

I hope you would sell your goods."

I should not care about that," said
Theoo.

John smiled patiently and stroked his

face. It was hard on a sensible man to
have such a babyish companion.

'' But I should sell them," she proceeded,
because they would be much better than other
people's."

Then you are going to create some new
work people," said John.

'' Of course they would want training,"
said Theoo. "Theoose things can't be done ina
day. Ah, you are laughing at me! But
if I could try something of the kind, you
would see."

I hope not, for I don't care to see
failures," said John. " No ; in every age the
right plan is to use the materials that the age
gives you ; make the best of them, take care
of them, but don't expect more than they can
do. I dare say we fall rather short in the
way of philanthropy. I think myself it is as
well to leave them a good deal of independence.

The vicar likes to do all he can, and
he has started a club, and classes, and so
forth. Of course I support him. A friend
of mine, who has some large works a dozen
miles from here, has made model arrangements
for his workmen. I wonder if you
would care to see them ? "

Very much indeed," said Theoo.

'' We will drive over when I have a free
day  or would it be too long a ride for you ? "

'' No, certainly not. Aster and I would
enjoy it of all things  only, there's Helen."

** It would not interest her," said Mr.
Goodall.

Theoo had not at all expected to find herself
riding about the country with him. The
September days were pleasant and cool, and
that ride to the model village proved to be
only the first of many.

John did not profess to care much for

riding ; he was growing rather heavy, and
walking suited him better ; but he had a good
strong horse, and riding with Theoo was much
more amusing than riding alone. Her fights
with Aster, in which she always came off
conqueror, though he had a strong will of his
own, her grace and perfect riding, her thorough
girlish delight in a gallop over the turf, the
brightness that came to her spirits as the soft
wind blew in her face and brought colour toit,
her preposterous arguments, the smile with
which she took John's good solid contradictions,
the disappearance of her dreaminess in
this rapid movement and fresh air  all these
things filled the worthy fellow with satisfaction.
Every day he grew more fond of Theoo.
And Helen, who used to watch them away
from the door and go back peacefully to her
sofa and her novel, knew that they would
come in presently much more cheerful than

they went, and would have a great deal to
tell her  Theoo, at least  of adventures on the
way and the wonderful behaviour of the
horses.

On other days Helen and Theoo took long
drives together, for the neighbourhood, like
most of its kind, was both prettier and more
sociable than they thought at first. There
were people scattered here and there, and a
cathedral town within fifteen miles ; there
were garden-parties, to which Mr. Goodall
was generally too busy to go, so that the two
cousins appeared at them together. Here
they met a variety of people, who were all
friendly, though most of them lived a long
way off; but neither Helen nor Theoo cared
much for any of them, and they generally
came back yawning from these festivities.

I should like to be quite uncivilised, and
to ride for miles and miles over a great plain,"

said Theoo one evening, when John had been
reproaching them for their unsociableness.

'' And I should Hke to be left in peace,"
said Helen.

At the same time John noticed, when he
went with them to any of these parties, that
his wife and her cousin appeared perfectly-happy,
and were more agreeable, and had
more to talk about than any of the other
people there. Under these circumstances it
seemed wrong-headed of them to complain
afterwards of being bored to extinction. He
said so to Helen, but she only laughed, and
told him he did not understand.

They did not meet the Fanes anywhere;
perhaps it was not likely that they should ;
yet Theoo's eyes always wandered a little curiously
round the rooms and lawns, and a sad
scornful sort of look came into her face when
she saw they were not there. She often

VOL. I. p

thought of the child Ada, with the pleading
blue eyes that had touched her. It seemed
hardly possible that she was not to see her
or her brother again. It was a little humiliating
to imagine what he must think of the
foolish strange woman who had told him she
was fond of his sister, and then had lived on
for weeks and weeks within two miles, without
making the smallest attempt to see her
again. What could he think ? Theoo puzzled
herself about this very often, till she put up
her two hands to her cheeks, and found they
were burning with vexation. Yet she was
not conscious of any wish to go away from
Woodcote, and Helen was only too glad to
keep her. Hugh wrote that he would becoming
back from Scotland before long, and
could stop at Woodcote and take her back
to London. Of course that was very nice,
and she would be very glad to see dear old

Hugh again. But in the meanwhile, evening
after evening, she looked out of her own high
window to the sunset, and to a distant line
of trees dark against the glow, often more
or less obscured by smoke rising from the
valley.

One evening a little thing happened, not
important in itself, as far as Theoo knew,
though it brought a strange trouble into her
mind, and she was never afterwards able to
forget it.

October had come ; the days were shortening
fast, and it was quite twilight when she
and Mr. Goodall were returning from one
of their long rides. They had come along
the high road nearly as far as Deerhurst, when
John suggested that by crossing a field or two
they would cut off a corner, and come into
the Woodcote lane much quicker than by going
on to where it joined the road. There was a

p 2

broad path across the field, and a rough stile
used by the miners, many of whom made a
short cut this way to the colliery. It was not,
however, the direct pathway to the colliery
from Deerhurst.

At this time in the evening no one was
to be seen there ; the marshy meadows, the
waste banks beyond, stretched out bare and
dismal under a dim cloudy sky.

The gate was not easy to unfasten, and
Mr. Goodall was fumbling with it when a
tall figure appeared suddenly out of the shadow
of the hedge, having come up the road from
Deerhurst, and a voice said :

'* Let me do that for you."

" Much obliged ; it is some dodge that I
can't make out," said John. 'ris It you.
Fane ? How are you ? Getting on all right,
I hope."

'' All right, thank you," was the answer.

Mr. Fane's voice did not sound very cheerful,
but he was stooping down at the gate. Ina
moment he had opened it for them to pass
through.

Theoo was quite close to him ; he took off
his hat, but hardly looked up. She stooped
a Httle from her saddle and asked him how his
sister was.

** She is very well, thank you," answered
Gerald.

Will you remember me to her ? " said
Theoo, and she stooped a little more, and held
out her hand to him ; she must have done it,
if twenty Goodalls had been looking on.

He looked up then, and took her hand,
and held it perhaps for a second or two longer
than he ought. His own was as hot as
fire, and trembled : but Theoo only afterwards
remembered the fate of her hand. At the
moment she could see and feel nothing but

the. look that was fastened upon her ; and she
knew, too, that his face was very white and
thin in the twilight  that he looked like a
man with some terrible trouble upon him.

She made a sort of half exclamation ; it
was hardly possible not to ask him what was
the matter ; yet he had just now told Mr.
Goodall that all was right with him.

At any rate she had no time, for all had
passed like lightning ; they had left him
behind, with a cheerful 'good-night" from
John to comfort him, and Aster was cantering
across the field. Theoo looked back once,
but the tall hedges cast a shadow, and
the darkness was deepening; she could not
see him.

TEMPTATION.

At Ada Fane's age, disappointments do not
always seem to come naturally. Looking
forward from school, the idea of life with her
brother had been most amusing and delightful ;
this boy-and-girl housekeeping was a sort of
fun that does not fall to the lot of everybody,
and Ada thought herself much more lucky than
her schoolfellows with their dull old settled
homes waiting for them. That first evening
with Gerald in the pretty old house and garden
had been very happy, In spite of Mr. Warren's
presence there ; he was horrid, of course, but

Gerald thought so too, and he would soon go
away.

The next day he seemed so much more
horrid, that Ada knew she could not be really
happy till he did go away ; she was, in fact,
rather miserable till the afternoon, and those
few minutes in the lane with Miss Meynell.
She saw that Theoo liked her, and listened
kindly to the discontents she could not help
pouring out, as they walked those few yards
together.

Gerald, too, when he came back from
Woodcote, told her that Miss Meynell had
said kind things about her, and though he
could not, or would not, repeat the things,
Ada felt a sort of happy triumph. Nothing
seemed to matter so much, if she had a friend
so near, and her heart was filled with enthusiastic
affection for Theoooo. A doubt of Theoooo's
sincerity would have been sacrilege, and the

child felt perfectly sure that they would meet
again in a few days. In the meanwhile she
filled the drawing-room with flowers, and
watched and listened every afternoon for
visitors, and hid herself as well as she could
from Mr. Warren, who had an odious habit
of following her about, paying her compliments,
and trying to make her talk to him,
especially when her brothers were not in the
room.

Day after day passed, and no one came.
Ada cried once or twice from disappointment,
and then scolded herself, and remembered that
it would be much better for Miss Meynell not
to come till Clarence and Mr. Warren were
gone away ; but the time seemed very long and
weary.

At last the day came for them to go, and
she hid herself at the last moment, and so
escaped saying good-bye to Mr. Warren, a

piece of rudeness for which Gerald was inclined
to scold her afterwards.

'' Clarence was angry," he said. '' He
would have hunted you up, only there wasn't
time. You should not behave like a baby, you
know, Ada."

'' I don't care," said Ada cheerfully. '' I
hope I shall never see that detestable man
ao-ain. And if Clarence can't come here without
him, I don't care how long he stays away."

'what a vixen you are!" said Gerald.
'' What harm has the fellow done you ? "

Didn't you say yourself you would like to
kick him downstairs ? "

Did I ? Well, have you no better reason
for hating him than that ? "

''He told me one day that I was pretty,
or something still more nonsensical," said Ada,
colouring, and walking away to the end of the
room.

Did that make you angry ? Never
mind. I don't think you are prettier than
most girls."

Oh, Gerald, how silly you are ! " she
said, laughing. ''He is a nasty impertinent
man, and you need not tease me, for I know
you think so too. Well, he is gone, and
now we may be happy. And first of all I
have thought of several improvements in this
room. I think Miss Meynell will come 
don't you ?  now that they are gone."

She may, but I don't advise you to be
too hopeful," said Gerald.

What a stupid old log you are ! " said
Ada, and then she skated along the polished
floor, seized her brother, and shook him by
the shoulders, as he sat tired and discontented
in his chair.

'' You are a lump of indifference," she
said, pulling his hair. '' I hate you, and I

love Miss Meynell. You won't care if we
never see her again, but I mean to go and
walk up and down Woodcote till she comes
out of Mrs. Goodalls gate."

"You will do nothing of the kind. Get
away, and don't bother," said Gerald crossly.

Ada was offended, and walked off to the
other side of the room, where she stood with
her back to him, pulling at a fern. After
a few minutes of silence, Gerald said in a
reasonable voice, looking out of the window :

I believe Miss Meynell meant to come
and see you. She may be prevented, or she
may have changed her mind, but, I tell you,
I don't think she is coming now. And as
for you and me, our present level is quite
low enough ; we need not go lower still by
pushing and running after people who don't
want us."

After this speech he waited a little, sitting

Still In his chair. But Ada did not look
round or answer him, as he expected ; and
he did not attempt to make friends with her
then, but presently got up and went out,
leaving her alone.

The little cloud had passed off when he
came in again. He was more cheerful, and
his sister, naturally sweet-tempered, could not
long be angry with any one she loved and
admired so much. She comforted herself,
poor child! by loving and admiring him,
though sometimes the disappointment about
Theoo was almost too much for her, and she
cried a little at night over that lost vision.
At seventeen one believes and loves so
heartily, and wants and losses seem almost
impossible to bear.

Finding that talk about Theoo always made
Gerald cross and dismal, she let the painful
subject alone, and for many days the name

that was in both their minds was not mentioned
between them. So the autumn weeks
passed slowly away, Ada amused herself as
well as she could while her brother was out,
and always welcomed him joyfully home ; but
her life was very monotonous. There were
no neighbours to interest her in the little
village, she was too young and untrained to
care for the poor, and the pleasantness afternoons
were those in which Gerald found time
to drive her about the country, at a great
pace, in his rough pony-cart. Once or twice
in this tearing round they dashed through
Woodcote, and Ada looked about her with
great eagerness then ; but probably Theoo and
Mr. Goodall were riding many miles away
They never met them. That evening at the
gate was Gerald's first encounter with Theoo
on her rides, and something else had happened
to him before then.

One evening Clarence Litton arrived unexpectedly.
He went first to the colliery, to
look after his business matters, and was busy
for some time at the Iron safe in the office,
where he finally left some valuable papers,
chiefly railway bonds and certificates, belonging
to himself and Mr. Warren. When he had
done, and he and Gerald were walking home
together, he talked to the young manager
rather confidentially. He told him that
Warren was not well, and thought of going
abroad for the winter. Gerald was a little
puzzled by his manner, but they reached their
own gate, and Clarence said :

'we'll talk business after dinner."
He was very pleasant at dinner, and kind
to Ada, telling stories to make her laugh.
She began to wish that Clarence would comedown
very often, if only he would leave Mr.
Warren behind.

Gerald was rather silent ; he could not
throw off his anxieties as Clarence did,
though his brother's burden was no doubt
the heaviest. He suspected that something
was wrong, and could not rest till Clarence
was sitting with his pipe over the study-fire,
ready to answer questions and talk
seriously. He stood on the rug close by,
with eager eyes looking down at Clarence ;
the inscrutable old face, as he called it in
his mind, was harder to read than ever.
It was yellow and coarse-grained, weatherbeaten
and lined all over with care ; the
eyes were languid, keen, and expressionless ;
if the mouth had a smile or touch of goodness,
it was hidden by the long thick
moustache. Yet Clarence's was not a bad
face ; the hard, worn features had some
suggestion of past refinement ; the man had
been a gentleman in mind as well as by

birth, and had had some kindness in him.
Twenty years ago he might have been a
generous, attractive fellow, and good men
might have called him friend ; indeed, considering
his associates, and the life he had
led, he might easily have shown more outward
degradation now.

** What is all this about going abroad ? "
said Gerald, as his brother did not seem
inclined to speak. "Is anything wrong?"

** No ; he says he wants a holiday," said
Clarence. " I don't believe he will go till
after Christmas, however. He thinks we
couldn't get on without him. I think we
could."

"Have you disagreed about anything?"
said Gerald, when his brother had smoked
in silence for a minute or two.

** Would you be surprised If we had ? '*

*' Not In the least. The wonder is that

VOL. I. Q

it has not happened before. I say, Clarence,
I am awfully glad to hear it," said Gerald,
his face brightening. " Life might be worth
living, if Warren was out of it."

** On the contrary," said Clarence, "if
Warren was out of it, you and I would be
breaking stones. Fortunately I am not quite
so romantic and prejudiced as you. If he
and I were to dissolve partnership now, I
should come off badly, for he is not the sort
of fellow you can take any advantage of, you
know. That's not the way to make my
fortune out of him, which I mean to do ;
you understand ? "

'* I don't see how you are to do that," said
Gerald, once more depressed.

*' No," said Clarence, "and I won't try:
to explain. But there's you to think of as
well as myself, and as I have done pretty
well for you so far, I suppose you will leave

yourself in my hands to the end of the
chapter."

"What do you mean ? Have you got any
new work for me ? If it is anything independent
of Warren, I am in your hands ten
times over''

** Don't be an ass ! " said Clarence lazily.
'* If I am not independent of him, how can
you be ? I have a serious word to say to
you, my boy. If you could bring down your
pride so far as to be civil to Warren, you would
be in a much better position at this moment.
In fact, even now, if you will be quiet and
behave reasonably, I have some hopes that
he will take you into partnership."

"Why, I have not a penny in the world,"
said Gerald, looking amused, but not particularly
pleased. " Warren is not likely to be
so weak as that. Besides, he hates me as

much as I hate him."

Q 2

'' He Is not fond of you, that is true,"
said Clarence, 'but he values me. I am of
great use to him, and he would sacrifice a
good many likes and dislikes rather than
quarrel with me. Besides, a lucky hit the
other day brought me in a few thousands,
which he wants me to invest in these works.
Now, if he will consent to have you, the
money shall be invested in your name  that
will be all right between you and me. If he
won't, I think I can do better with it somewhere
else. You see there is a chance for
you, and a good one  the best, in fact, that
you have ever had in your life. When
Warren was your age he was nearly as poor
as you."

'thank you," said Gerald. "Let me
think about it."

He sat down opposite his brother, staring
into the fire. For about five minutes neither

of them spoke, but every now and then
Clarence stole a glance under his sleepy eyelids
at Gerald's grave face. Who would have
thought that this ungracious young fellow was
having his fortune made! Clarence never
expected much from human nature, but he
was a little disappointed ; If Gerald had
seemed to care more for his new prospects,
future arrangements would have been easier,
he thought. But he waited quietly, while
Gerald turned the thing over in his mind.

'' I wish you and I had never been mixed
up with a fellow like Warren," said the young
man at last. *' I almost think I would rather
break stones than have fifty thousand a year
with Warren for a partner."

As you please," said Clarence coolly.
Your fifty thousand a year is not likely to
come in any other way, as far as I can see.
And I think if you had it you would sing to

a different tune. However, after all, what
do you know against Warren ? "

"Not so much as you do probably," said
Gerald.

Clarence almost laughed.

'' Well, half of your dislike is prejudice,"
he said. *' He's rough, I grant you, and his
manners are not good, nor is his temper. But
he has some points that are not so bad. He
is a capital man of business, and not ill-natured,
and generous in his way. He was a very
useful friend to me some years ago, when
without his help I should have gone to the
dogs altogether. We have done a good deal
for each other, sooner or later, and neither of
us could very well afford to quarrel with the
other ; still you understand that I owe Warren
more than he owes me. It is no use fighting
against facts. I am to a great extent in
Warren's power, and I won't say it is always

a pleasant state of things. But I am making
money, and this seems a chance for you to
make money too, if you will put your prejudices
and your high notions out of the way."

'' I should never be in Warren's power ? "
said Gerald quickly.

** No ; that is my privilege," said Clarence,
*' It is a good offer, and you had better take
it," he went on after a minute.

*' Of course, I am very much obliged to
you," said his brother.

*' Don't be too grateful. I hope you
will be a rich man one of these days 
but I want you to do something for me in
return."

'what sort of thing ?"

** Well, to stand by me in one of my
difficulties."

'' Of course "

*' Don't be in a hurry," said Clarence.

He became suddenly very uneasy, and
Gerald looked at him in surprise. An odd,
anxious, half-ashamed look came into his face ;
he got up, laid down his pipe, and stooped
over the fire, poking it vigorously ; then he
began to walk about the room. On the wall
opposite the fire hung a very pretty portrait
of Ada as a little child, which Mrs. Fane had
given to her eldest son in his younger and
better days. She was in bad health even
then, and she had always felt that she could
leave her boy and girl quite happily in
Clarence's care.

Clarence glanced up at the portrait that
evening, and walked away again. The
smiling eyes, bright colour, and golden locks
were like Ada still.

*you know," he said, '* that picture of
Ada  I used always to have it in my rooms

in town."

** Yes," said Gerald. *' Do you want it
back again ? "

'' No. Pity I ever had it there at all ! "

'* Why ? What do you mean ? What
are you talking about ? "

'' I tell you," said Clarence, '' if it had
not been for Warren, I should have gone
to the dogs more than once. One day in
London, years ago, when I was specially
obliged to him about something  and I
think he was much less of a brute then
than he is now  I asked him how I was
to repay him. He looked up at that picture
and said, ' By the time that child is seventeen
I shall be rich enough to marry. You
shall let me marry her.' Well  perhaps
neither of us was half in earnest  at any
rate I couldn't afford to refuse, and I gave
him a written promise that as far as I was
concerned I would further the marriage."

He said all this in a low hurried voice,
walking up and down. Gerald stared at
him incredulously. It was almost impossible
to believe in such a bargain, and words to
express his feeling about it would not come
at once to the surface.

** He sticks to it, I am sorry to say,"
Clarence went on after a pause, '* and since
he saw her this time he has talked of
nothing else. She will be seventeen this
winter, won't she ? I tell him that, of course,
it must depend on her consent, but the state
of the case is this : we shall be ruined if she
refuses. If Warren sets his mind on anything,
there is no turning him off. He has
waited for her, and worked for her  he
means it ; and you and I must persuade her
to like him better than she does now. Do
you understand ? "

He spoke impatiently now, and looked

Gerald straight in the face. To him evidently
the worst was over, now that his brother
knew it. Gerald turned very pale as he answered
him.

No, I don't understand  at least, I won't."

'' Then you had better use your brains, and
make haste about it," said Clarence. '' Her
refusal means a split with Warren, and I
don't mean that to happen. I can't afford
it. I have to keep my promise, and Ada shall
marry Warren when she is seventeen."

His manner became every moment more
angry and defiant ; all shame, all regret seemed
to leave him, as he watched disgust and horror
strengthening in his brother's face. He had
quite lost his usual coolness, and with it all
chance, if such a thing ever existed, of having
his own way with Gerald.

'' You have lived so much with Warren,"
said the young man quietly, though his eyes

flamed with anger, '' that you are becoming
rather too much Hke him. Do you mean to
say that you can look at Ada  can think of
our sister, and imagine such a thing for a
single Instant possible ? You are mad ! you
are possessed  I don't know what to say to
you."

Don't blaze away at me, you young
fool!" said Clarence between his teeth.
*' Why, what an idiot you are! Don't you
see how much depends upon it '. "

*' I see that you are far worse than I ever
thought you," said Gerald. '' Worse than
Warren  for one can't expect him to see the
impossibility. You want to sacrifice that child
for the sake of money ! You thought I should
help you, stand by you, for the sake of a
partnership ? What have I ever done or said
that you should think me such a scoundrel ?
Why, my mother would come back, if she

could, to take Ada. She had better die. I

would rather see her dead than But you

will not dare even to hint such a thing to her."

The deep pain and resolution In the young
fellow's voice, the anger and amazement in
his face  above all, the allusion to his mother,
impressed Clarence a little, vexed and provoked
as he was. His moral skin was naturally
much thicker than Gerald's, and had
been well tanned by all sorts of experience.

The idea of Warren's marrying his sister
had been familiar to him for years  always a
disagreeable idea, no doubt. As he laid it
before Gerald, it certainly seemed more than
disagreeable. Still, as he said, Warren was
not altogether a bad fellow, and it would bea
ridiculous thing indeed if the obstinacy of
a boy and girl were to break up all his plans
for the future. Many girls had married for
money, and many girls had married worse

men than Warren, Clarence knew. He was
angry with Gerald for his opposition, which,
after all, he had expected ; but though he saw
it was not to be trifled with, he thought that
a little quiet management would set things
right in time.

Both were silent for a minute or two ;
Clarence still pacing about the room, Gerald
standing before the fire.

After a short struggle for self-conquest, the
elder brother said very quietly :

" I have done everything in my power
for you, and this is my reward  to be abused
like a pickpocket."

''If it was anything that concerned myself

said Gerald. *' However, look here 

we may as well understand each other. Of
course I shall never consent to this. I will
not have it, if you are ruined ten times over.
I am Ada's proper guardian  nearer to her

than you are, remember. I will not have the
subject mentioned to her. I decline this
partnership, and I shall resign my present
post. If Ada and I have been dependent on
you till now, we never will be again."

*' And pray how are you going to support
yourself and Ada ? " asked Clarence.
" By breaking stones," said Gerald.

Clarence laughed. His young brother
looked at him for a moment ; that laugh
brought them to the edge of something
worse than an ordinary quarrel. It was no
use talking any more ; and Clarence, who
would have found an open breach with
Gerald only less disagreeable and inconvenient
than with Warren, was glad that
after an instant's hesitation Gerald went out
of the room.

Mr. Litton went away early the next
morning, without having alluded to the

subject again. Gerald went to his work
as usual, but came back In the middle of
the day so very gloomy and silent, that Ada
guessed there was something wrong. She
did not Imagine a quarrel with Clarence,
for she had not seen them together since
yesterday at dinner, when Clarence seemed
so pleasant and kind.

After luncheon Gerald shut himself up
in the study, and remained there for two or
three hours. At last Ada, tired of being
alone when he was In the house, gently
opened the door and went in. Gerald had
perhaps been reading the newspaper ; at
any rate, it was spread out on the table, and
he was sitting there, his arms and his head
laid down upon it. He started up when
Ada came in, and pushed away his chair,
and stood by the fire.

"What do you want, child?" he said

kindly, but he was looking so ill and pale
that Ada was frightened.

*' Nothing, Gerald  only you," she said.

'' Nothing  only me," he repeated. " I
wish I was nothing."

There was a hopeless despairing look in
his eyes, and Ada thought his manner very
strange. He put his arm round her as
she came close to him, and kissed her curly
head ; his ways were not often so affectionate.

Dear old boy ! " said Ada, laughing ;
'* what should I do if you were ? "

Wouldn't it be jolly," he said, his eyes
wandering out of the window, where the
wych-elms were waving their arms, and
shaking down dead leaves on the grass, " if
you and I could go off to California, or the
diamond-fields, or somewhere ? We might
change our names, and nobody in England
would ever hear of us again."

VOL. I. R

Till we came back with an immense
fortune," said Ada. '' Oh yes, Gerald, what
fun ! When shall we go ? "

'ewe should never come back," said
Gerald; "but, after all, you wouldn't mind
that. You have no friends here, nor have
I. If I had any money to start with, we
might go tomorrow."

Clarence would be surprised, wouldn't
he .? " said Ada.

A shade came over Gerald's face.

I mean it seriously," he said. " I have
been thinking it over for the last two hours.
Now you can do the same, for I must go
down to the works. In two hours I will
come back, and tell you whether we can

go."

But the money  where is that coming

from ? " said Ada.

Don't ask questions," said her brother.

He pushed her aside a little roughly, and
took up his hat.

She watched him from the long low
window as he walked away very fast up the
drive. It was beginning to be dusk. Ada
went back slowly upstairs, very much puzzled ;
it was impossible to sit down and think
seriously of such wild plans as he had suggested.
Two hours seemed a long time. It
was not nearly at an end, however, wien she
heard him open the house door and go into
the study. She flew downstairs to welcome
him, and found him sitting in the dark, silent,
moody, and quite forgetful of all his fine ideas.

'' Well, are we going .- " she said rather
timidly.

*' No, we are not," Gerald answered very
shortly. *' Light those candles, will you, and
leave me alone. I can't be always chattering,"

Poor Ada obeyed these orders silently.

R 2

A WILFUL WOMAN.

Theoo Meynell's visit to the Midlands was
drawing near its end, for Hugh North had
written from Scotland to say that he was
going back to London one day in the next
week, and would be glad to take her back
with him if Helen and John would let him
stay one night at their house. Perhaps he
would hardly have proposed this, for he
thought she was much better with Helen
than with Lady Redcliff, but a rather restless
letter from Theoo  perhaps her grandmother
had not been so far wrong in describing her
character  had told him that she meant to

go back soon, and had had the effect of
making him  the calm, cool, deliberate Hugh
North  a little restless too. It was bad to
be amusing one's self in Scotland, it would
be worse to be on duty close to London,
when Theoo was in Staffordshire. Hugh
thought a great deal as he tramped over the
moors, and in a new, uneasy, inexplicable
sort of way, began to know that he loved
his cousin.

Lady Redcliff was right. Theoo was beginning
to be tired of life at Woodcote.
Helen was not an inspiring companion ; still
less so, married to the excellent John, who
could not help being sometimes tiresome.
Theoo could not have any intercourse with
the only people who interested her at all ;
she was often rather weary, rather bored, in
spite of Aster and Wool ; and as she read
the postscript to one of her grandmothers

cross letters, something in her nature seemed
to go out to meet the impatient old woman.
Her sins might be many, but heaviness was
not among them, and after her fashion she
loved Theoo.

When are you coming home ? " she said
in that postscript. " I sometimes think I
should like to hear a human voice again.
Those I do hear are the voices of animals, and
I suspect your present experience is not very
different."

I have brought you some gossip," said
Mr. Goodall one evening, two days before
Captain North was to arrive.

He went on to tell them how at Mainly
Station that afternoon he had seen his friend
Morland, the proprietor of the model village
to which Theoo rode with him one day. And
Morland had been making one or two
journeys on business lately, and in one of

A WILFUL WOMAN. 247

these he had travelled in the same carriage
with " that fellow Warren," who was talking
a great deal in a very loud voice to another
man he knew. Morland thought he was not
quite sober, but John Goodall charitably hoped
it was only his awful vulgarity.

*' He was telling this other fellow all about
himself and his affairs, and among other
things he said he was going abroad to seethe
world, and coming back in the spring to
be married."

I hope he is not going to live near us,***
said Helen.

*' I hope not," said John. '' But, Theoo,
you will be rather shocked to hear who he
is going to marry."

"It can't be any one I know," said Theoo
with conviction.

"Well, I suppose I may say you know
her. Anyhow, you took some interest in her.

That pretty girl  that child  Gerald Fane's

sister."

' Dear me ! " said Helen languidly.
"After all, Theoo dear, the Fanes can't
be nice, or they wouldn't do that, would
they?"

Theoo did not speak for a minute or two.
She was extremely shocked, and very grave.
She gazed absently at John, who was turning
over a book, and then dropped her eyes on
the floor. Having collected her thoughts, she
said quietly :

'' I don't believe it."

Now, Theoo, you really are unreasonable,"
said Helen.

Did not I tell you," said Theoo, '' how
much that girl disliked that man ? "

John Goodall shook his head over his book
and smiled provokingly.

'' Money," he said ; "or, rather, the want

of it. There you have the explanation of
most things, and no doubt of this."

'but how could Mr. Fane consent?" exclaimed
Theoo. '' Oh, it is too horrid ! How
can you laugh, Nell ? It is the most dreadful
thing I ever heard in my life. I don't believe
he knows anything about it. I believe it is
a plot between those two men."

Well, I'm afraid he does know," said
John, looking up. " He has looked very bad
when I have seen him lately  ill and pale, and
more discontented than ever. Do you remember
how dismal he looked when he opened
the gate for us the other evening ? "

"Yes  yes, he did," said Theoo, half to
herself

' And I met him here in the village this
morning, when I first went out. He was
mooning along under my wall there, looking
regularly white and wretched, as if he had

been up all night. I thought, then, poor chap !
he looked as if something had happened to
him. If this engagement is a fact, and if he
is letting it go on, I quite agree with you that
he doesn't like it. He's not a bad fellow, poor
Fane ! I nearly asked him in to breakfast."

After the first words of this sentence Theoo
had heard no more. But as soon as John
paused, she said quickly and earnestly :

*' Please listen, both of you. I have not
been kind to that girl, because you did not
wish it. But now Hugh is coming the day
after tomorrow, and then I am going away ;
so you won't mind, Helen  you can't  if I go
and see her that last afternoon. I have made
up my mind, please. I must know if this
horrid story is true."

*' That could be found out by other means ;
couldn't it, John?" said Helen. "And if it
is a plot between those men, as you said just

now, Theoo, perhaps the girl herself has not
been let into it yet. And if you attack heron
the subject, you may make a grand general
combustion. There may be no end to the
muddle ; and is it exactly your business, Theoo,
do you think ? "

'' Am I my sister's keeper ? " said Theoo
dreamily. 'eyes, Nell, it seems to me that
I am."

She got up and walked across to the door ;
there she turned round for a moment, smiling.

'' I won't make a muddle," she said. *' I
won't ask her ; but if she knows she will tell
me."

And what will you do then ?" said John
solemnly.

*' Oh, something ! " said Theoo as she shut
the door.

My dear," he said to his wife when she
was gone, '' I like Theoo very much, and I shall

be sorry when she goes away, but for her own
sake It Is a good thing she's going. Her
violent Interest In these Fanes makes me
nervous. Did you hear her  ' Am I my
sister's keeper?' It made me glad I hadn't
asked the fellow In this morning, as I really
felt half Inclined to do."

"She meant nothing by that," said Helen.
You don't quite understand her yet, my
dear John. It Is all pure benevolence."

" Anyhow, it Is a dangerous game, with
mad, demoralised people like those," said Mr.
Goodall.

Perhaps Helen herself did not quite
understand Theoo, who felt a strange happy
excitement when the appointed time came,
and she was walking across the fields to
Deerhurst with Wool for her only companion.


It was not a very fine day ; there were

wild clouds about, and the wind was moaning
and threatening to rise to a gale, but the
sun came out now and then and cheered
the dull autumnal landscape. But this restless
weather suited Theoo better than quiet
sunshine ; there was mystery, uncertainty, in
the strange shapes of the flying clouds, in
the shadows that went sweeping across the
country when the sun showed his face for a
minute or two.

Theoo's own life was not unlike one of
those clouds ; she, too, was blown by winds,
and did not know where she was going.
And none of her own people could have
understood  not Helen, or John, or Hugh
North  what a wild secret pleasure there
was in it.

After she had passed the railway the
path was strange, but she could not lose
her way, with the line of green firs on that

ridge between her and the sky. Coming
to the high-road, she walked for a few
yards beside a little noisy brook, shaded by
oak-trees turning brown, and then, just at
the entrance to Deerhurst village, which
skirted the sloping road in an irregular
patch of cottages here and there, she turned
into a path that led her up two grass-fields
that grew gradually steeper, along by hedges
bright with red and golden maple, till at
the top she came into another lane close
under those fir-trees to which her eyes had
been directed all the way. Now she could
see the other side of the country  the
pleasant valley beyond Deerhurst, unstained
by smoke, and scattered with trees. Down
in the meadows far below her  for the
ground fell steeply away here  the river
gleamed as it went slowly winding on its
way.

A rough hedge and fence divided Theoo
from the fir-trees, which grew along a bank
at the top of a steep field. They were
much blown and strained by the wind, and
even now were singing like the sea ; but
they made a pleasant shelter, and she walked
along under them, going a little down-hill,
till she came to gates and haystacks, with
Lombardy poplars leaning over them, and
the rough old white gables and outbuildings
of a house, set snugly in a little hollow of
the ridge. It was partly covered with ivy
and creepers, and much sheltered by trees 
wych-elms nearly bared by the windy weather
beeches still a blaze of gold.

Theoo stood still and looked at the quaint
little homestead with a strange feeling of
familiarity. She knew that this must be
Deerhurst Lodge, for John had pointed out
its roofs and trees, and she had discovered,

without telling John, that she could see its
chimneys from her window at Woodcote.
He said it had been a manor-house once,
and a much larger place than it was now.
It lay on the edge of a great old chase,
which had given it its sylvan name, and
relics of those days, such as stags' horns,
had been dug up not long ago In the peat-beds
by the river. Theoo listened, and vaguely
thought she liked to hear all this ; but she
found it much more interesting now.

The sun was shining as she turned in at
the gate, and walked down to the door with
Wool marching solemnly behind her. A
sudden smile seemed to light up the world ;
the wind was lulled, the garden was full of
soft shadows and gleams ; and the same
change took place in Gerald, who came out
of the door just as Miss Meynell approached
it.

'' Is it you ? " said Gerald with sudden
joy, and for a moment Theoo could not help
looking as happy as he did.

She gave him her hand, smiling and
blushing a little, and began to speak rather
quickly, asking him. if he thought she had
quite forgotten his sister.

*' Is she at home ? May I go in and
see her ? "

She will be too happy," said Gerald.
** I told her I did not think you would be
able to come."

I was not sure about It," said Theoo. ** But
I am going back to London tomorrow, and "

She suddenly remembered the reason that
had brought her there, and then was ready
to drive that horrid story at once out of
her mind. How could one look at him and
believe that he would let such a thing
happen to his little sister ?

VOL. I. s

But the experiment of looking at him did
not answer ; it plunged them both into a depth
of shyness, a new feeling into Theoo's proud
independent nature.

Come in, please," said Gerald gravely,
holding the door open,

Theoo went in, and he took her up the low
oak staircase to the drawing-room, where Ada,
who had heard their voices, was waiting in a
state of joyful unbelief. She looked so happy,
so affectionate, as she came forward to meet
her, that Theoo could not help kissing her.
It Is not quite certain that she knew what
she was doing ; a quick Impulse carried her
away, but If it had been necessary to win
the heart of that lonely child, Theoo's kiss
would have done It for ever.

None of the three, except perhaps Ada,
could have told afterwards how they spent
that afternoon. If Theoo thought at all, she

thought that her only visit might be a long
one ; if Gerald had business that ought to
have taken him away, he seemed to have
forgotten it. The sun went on shining, and
they took her out to see the garden, wandering
down by ivy walls, past the orchard. Into the
lower garden, with Its shady corners, and the
great yellow walnut-tree hanging over the
slope. A few roses lingered on the bushes
down there, and when Theoo came up from
the garden, she was carrying a red one in
her hand.

The sun went in, the clouds came crowding
over darkly, the wind whistled, and it began
to rain ; but they were now in the house again,
and Theoo did not appear to notice the weather.
Gerald did, however, and he went off to see
that his pony would be ready to take her
home when she chose to go. Men are selfish,
and he certainly felt satisfaction in the thoughts

2

that his cart only held two ; but his selfishness
was not bad enough to deserve Its speedy
punishment.

When the two girls were left alone, Ada
moved to the low window-seat close beside
Theoo, and looked up Into her friend's eyes.

*' How good It was of you to come ! " she
said softly.

Theoo looked at her gravely. That story,
that horrid nightmare, which she had forgotten
for the last hour, had come back to her again.
She felt that It was impossible to say anything
about it, for Ada plainly knew nothing ; yet
she was going away, and could not bear the
thought of leaving the child to her fate. Could
her brother be trusted to take care of her ?
She thought so ; and yet, suppose anything
was to take him away !

Theoo took out a letter and a pencil, and
scribbled her London address on the envelope.

May I give you this ? " she said to Ada,
** and I want you to promise me something,
please."

"That I will," said Ada. "Oh, is it your
direction 1 "

Yes. Forgive me, dear, but you have
not many friends, have you ? Women friends,
at least."

"You know," said Ada, smiling, while
tears rushed into her eyes, " I have nobody
in the world but Gerald, and Clarence, and
you."

Thank you," said Theoo. " Theoon I shall
always feel that you belong to me a little ; "
and she kissed the girl's soft face again.
*you must promise me this  if you are
ever unhappy, or in any trouble  when your
brothers are not quite enough for you  if I
can ever be of any use to you, you will write
and tell me all about it."

** I will promise," said Ada, rather solemnly,
for Theoo frightened her a little when she
looked as grave as she did now.

The rain now began to dash furiously
against the window. Theoo looked up and
noticed it for the first time.

I must go," she said. *' Wool, we must
go ; " and Wool got up, wagging his tail, from
the rug, where he was lying stretched at full
length in perfect contentment.

*' You must have tea with me first,"
said Ada, '* and then the shower will be
over."

Pouring out tea for Miss Meynell, and
feeding Wool with large pieces of cake, seemed
like the realising of one of Ada's first and
favourite dreams. It was not perfect, though ;
realised dreams never are. Theoo was going
away tomorrow ; and Gerald, when he came
back into the room, looked grave and bothered;

something had wakened him to his sordid
everyday Hfe again.

'' Clarence is come," he said to his sister
after a minute.

'' Is he .' I thought you were talking to
some one. I hope he is by himself } " said
Ada, looking up anxiously.

'' Yes," said Gerald.

Theoo could not help watching him just
then, and his grave looks made her say to
herself :

'* John was right ; he knows."

He caught her glance, and came across
the room to her, while Ada went to the
open door and called Clarence to come and
have some tea.

*' It is quite a heavy storm," Gerald said.
*' You cannot walk back. I will drive you
in my cart, if you don't mind ; it Is a rough
concern."

** Thank you very much ; but Wool and
I don't mind the rain."

** It will be getting dusk ; you must let
me drive you," Gerald repeated. *' It Is not
at all a nice walk in the dark."

'* Thank you," said Theoo softly.

'' I must thank you for coming to-day,"
said Gerald. ** I'm afraid it was disagreeable
to you  but Ada is grateful, and so am I."

'' I have wished to come all the time.
I'm sorry it is my first and last visit," said
Theoo, looking on the floor. " She will let
me hear of her sometimes, I hope, and,"
glancing up in sudden forgetfulness, " you
will take care of her ? "

** I should do that, even if you did not
tell me," he said with a little reproach in
his voice. '' Did you think it was necessary
to tell me ? "

** No ; please forgive me," she said

smiling ; but all her self-possession had left
her for the moment, and she knew that she
was flushing very much as Ada came back
Into the room, followed by her eldest brother.

Theoo was not facing the light, and she
did not think that any one saw the confusion
that had overtaken her  not even Gerald 
most of all she hoped not Gerald  for she was
quite Indifferent as to what his brother might
see or Imagine. But she felt a little frightened
at herself; the red rose she wore
brought back to her suddenly all the strangeness
of that quickly-flying afternoon, and the
thought of Helen added an almost comic
touch of dismay.

** What have I done ? I have been very
foolish  still, after all, what have I done ? '
she said to herself. '' I must throw away this

rose."

Her manner to Mr. Litton was cold and

absent enough. Gerald now retreated to the
other side of the room, and watched the rain
as it came pelting harder and harder against
the window. All outside was blackness and
storm. Theoo's eyes, too, wandered often to
the window, as Clarence, who had just come
from London, talked to her about the news
of the day.

The noise of the wind and rain was loud
enough to drown other voices, and it was
only Gerald's quick ears that presently heard
a rumble of wheels. He guessed at once
what it meant ; and he was not surprised,
though the others were, when the drawing-room
door opened, and Mr. Goodall came in,
followed by a fair handsome man. That
cousin  Gerald well remembered him  he had
taken her away after the wedding, and now
he was going to take her away again.

John Goodall's manner was quite friendly ;

he shook hands with Clarence Litton, and
talked to him about the weather, and explained
that he had come to fetch Miss
Meynell home. Clarence, however, was staring
at Captain North, and hardly seemed to
hear what he was saying.

Hugh North did not at first notice him.
He had spoken coldly to Gerald, and glanced
at Ada with something like curiosity, and then
he had gone up to Theoo, and they were
standing together a little apart from the others.
His manner was quite that of one who takes
possession ; it was clear enough that for him
there was nobody in the room but Theoo.
His arrival did not seem to make much
difference to her. She was very dreamy and
absent just then, and after a few moments
with Hugh, during which he talked to her,
but she did not hear what he said, though she
answered him with vague remarks of, " Yes 

yes ; dreadful, isn't it ? Very good of you
and John," she went suddenly forward to
where Gerald was standing, looking rather
forsaken and miserable.

*' I am not going home in your cart after
all," she said ; and if she had known how her
face and eyes changed as she spoke to him
she would have been startled at herself.

Gerald brightened suddenly as he looked
at her.

'' No," he said, " I'm not to be allowed
to do anything for you ; but it would be
selfish to be sorry. I am selfish, though, and
sorry."

He spoke in a low voice, and Theoo
answered him in the same.

Thank you just as much," he said, smiling,
and then she turned again to Hugh.

But just at that moment something happened
which took her cousin's attention away from

her and her doings. To John Goodall's great
surprise, who had thought it necessary to
introduce him to Mr. Litton, Hugh North
looked Clarence straight in the face for a
moment, and with an expression of contempt
quite new to his quiet blue eyes, said :

'' I have met Mr. Litton before. Hadn't
we better start ; the storm is only getting
worse ? "

A curious sort of chill seemed to fall upon
the ill-assorted company.

Yes, very true ; you had better say goodbye,"
said John to Theoo, after an awkward
pause, and she quickly did as he wished.

It all seemed such a horrid confusion, that
she could not remember afterwards how she
had parted with Ada and Gerald after their
happy, short afternoon. Mr. Litton seemed
to have disappeared after Hugh's recognition.

Both her companions were rather silent

on the way home, Hugh especially so, and
she felt a little angry and amused at the
consciousness that she was In disgrace.

"Where did you know Litton?" John
Goodall asked Hugh as they drove along.

''He was in the service ; perhaps you
know," said Hugh stiffly.

'you don't think very well of him, it
seems."

"He did not bear a shining character."

No more was said then, but when Captain
North came into the drawing-room before
dinner, and found Theoo there alone, he went
up and stood near her, and said very gravely :

My dear Theoo, those people to-day are
not at all fit acquaintances for you."

Theoo flushed crimson ; she was extremely
annoyed, and a reaction from the excitements
of the day had made her temper very
uncertain.

'' I assure you, Hugh," she said, ' you are
not the first person who has told me so.
Helen and John have been repeating It ever
since I came."

'then they could surely " began

Hugh.

*' No, they could not," said Theoo. '' I
like Mr. Fane very much indeed, and I am
very fond of his sister," flushing more deeply
still. '' If I had had my own way, I should
have seen a great deal more of them. As
it is, I have only been there once, and that
was to-day. I hardly know the brother, and I
don't like him."

'' You will understand me better, perhaps,"
said Captain North, speaking low and quickly,
for Helen was coming through the hall, "when
I tell you that Clarence Litton was the man
who swindled and ruined my father."

WINTER.

Captain North's disclosure had an effect
upon Theoo with which he ought to have
been satisfied. His father had been dearer
to her than her own, and was, Indeed, the
only person to whom she had given the
whole love and reverence of her nature.
She felt with Hugh, that there could be no
forgiveness for the man who had been Uncle
Henry's friend, whom he had trusted, who had
cheated and betrayed him. She could not,
it was plain, have anything to do with that
man  or with his relations. She threw
Gerald's rose into the fire that night, and

sat looking, long after it had disappeared, at
the red little cavern where it had been, till
her eyes became dim, and she could not look
any longer. Hugh and she did not mention
the subject again ; it was too painful to them
both ; but by her gentleness and sweetness
the next day he understood that she meant
to make a little amends for her obstinacy.
It was only that, however. Hugh could not
flatter himself that she had been glad to see
him the day before, or that she cared at all to
go back with him to London. He had known
Theoo too long to be deceived In her moods.

He was jealous and unhappy, though Theoo
did not trouble herself to know that. It was
hard, he thought, that he should have found
out in Scotland how much he cared for her,
and should have come back to find that some
new barrier had been set up between them.
For as he sat in the railway-carriage and

VOL. I. T

looked at Theoo, and she looked far beyond
him, it made him sad to feel how little hope
there was of ever coming between Theoo and
her dreams. In the summer, he had thought
that he might safely wait for a long time ; now
he wondered how he could have made such a
terrible mistake. He could not forget the look,
the flush, with which Theoo had spoken of
Gerald Fane ; she had had no idea how much
it told him. He certainly believed that what
he had said about Litton had been a strong
check, and that the affair would no doubt
pass away in time ; but at present the pale
face opposite, the quiet lips and thoughtful
eyes, the slightly puzzled look that Theoo
always had when her mind was uneasy, told
him plainly that he must wait ; if he could
keep his old place with Theoo, it was all that
he must expect now.

He took her to Lady Redcliffs, and went

off to his quarters with a heavy heart, all the
heavier because the thing had been in part
his own doing ; he had himself suggested that
Helen should ask her down there. He was
very angry with himself, not with Theoo ; he
could understand, he thought, how those
scheming people had worked on her generous
heart ; she believed in them, as his father had
once believed in Litton.

All his friends were quite aware of his
low spirits, and thought he must have had
very bad sport in Scotland. Hugh left them
to imagine what they liked. He went on
wondering how long he could be patient 
how long he could keep this love silent, which
grew stronger every day. He went constantly
to see Theoo, for it was impossible to keep
away, though Lady Redcliff snubbed him
as usual, and every sight of Theoo left
him more miserable, and more conscious

T 2

how entirely all the feeling was on one
side.

As for Lady Redcliff, she hardly knew
what to make of her granddaughter, now that
she had her back again. Theoo seemed in a
great measure to have lost her old spirit 
the Meynell temper was no longer so ready
to flare up under sarcasm and provocation of
all kinds. It did not at all please Lady Red-cliff
to find that her sharpest speeches were
hardly heard, or answered with what she
thought a horrid unnatural gentleness. At
first she was angry, and hardly spoke at all
for a day or two, perhaps with an idea of
paying Theoo off In her own coin ; then, as
this treatment had no effect on Theoo, who
moved about in listless, grave indifference,
she became really anxious, and after much
curious peering at the girl," burst out one
day:

** Theoo, you are in love  but not with your
cousin, I'm glad to see''

It was just after one of Captain North's
hopeless visits, and Lady Redcliff had noticed
with satisfaction that Theoo did not seem sorry
when he went away.

Theoo started violently ; she had been looking
out of the window, but her thoughts were
far away from London. She was instantly
on the defensive, however, and something of
the fine old scornful look came into her eyes
as she turned towards Lady Radcliffe

No, grand mamma. What do you mean ?"
she said.

Lady Redcliff smiled maliciously, and
went on looking at her in silence, till Theoo
changed colour, and turned to the window
again.

'i'm glad you are awake," said Lady
Redcliff '' I knew you would be bored with

those Goodalls, but I hardly expected that
the life would be literally bored out of you.
You actually were extinguished  bored to extinction
 very expressive, but I never saw
such an instance of it before. And is that
poor wretch in love with you, may I ask }
or what makes him so abominably dismal ? "

What poor wretch . " said Theoo.

Hugh North, of course," said Lady
Redcliff, beating impatiently on the arm of
her chair.

"In love with me . How you fancy
things!" said Theoo. "Hugh is just the same
as ever. He is my brother, grand mamma ;
you never will understand."

I don't think you are a humbug," said
Lady Redcliff. " I believe you really are as
blind as you seem to be. All I can say is,
that a brother does not often look at his
sister as that man looks at you  and I

suspect it is you who won't understand. At
least you can't, poor thing ! you were born
stupid."

Theoo did not speak.

'' Come, you are thinking of somebody
else; who is it?" said Lady Redcliff. "You
had better go back to Staffordshire tomorrow,
for I see you have left your heart
there. Who is it ? Mr. Goodall's head
clerk ? "

*' Please don't tease me now, my headaches,"
said Theoo gently ; and it was such
a pale face, with such weary, sorrowful eyes
that she turned to her grandmother, that Lady
Redcliff had a pang of repentance.

*' You look like a ghost ; go to your
room and lie down," she said. '* But just
remember that I am your best friend, and
that your wisest plan would be to tell me
all about it."

I have nothing to tell you," said Theoo
as she left the room.

'' It is the head clerk, I verily believe,"
mused Lady Redcliff when she was gone.
But how am I to do anything if the girl
won't tell me ? Shall I ask that prig ? He
probably knows or suspects. No, I won't
have him between me and Theoo. What an
idiot he is ! If I were a young man, would
I take so much snubbing ?"

After this Theoo had a great struggle with
herself, and brightened up wonderfully. She
was almost like her old self again ; she went
out riding with Hugh, and walking everyday
with her friend Wool. She talked to
Hugh just as she used to talk in the old
days about anything that came uppermost.
Her cousin  most cautious of men  found
great happiness in listening to every laugh,
and in watching every sign of returning spirits.

It was a struggle for him, too ; he thought
he must still wait a little longer ; he could
not risk everything on Theoo's present mood ;
and the waiting was not quite such hard work,
now that she was her old self with him again.
He began to feel that all would come right
in the future, if only he had patience.

Lady Redcliff watched Theoo's humour
too, but not with so much confidence, for she
was a very clever old woman. Besides, she
saw Theoo at times when Hugh did not  in
the long evenings, when she sat reading till
her grandmother was ready to play cards.
Those were the times for dreaming, and Lady
Redcliff would start up suddenly from a
prolonged inspection of Theoo's face under
the lamp, while she herself was supposed to
be asleep after dinner, and the game that
began after those wakeful fits of hers was
pretty sure to end in a quarrel. Lady Redcliff

would dash the cards across the table, and
Theoo would ring the bell sharply and walk
scornfully out of the room. She was now
quite equal to the old fights with her grandmother,
and Lady Redcliff often saw that
brown flame in her eyes which she loved,
because it belonged to the Meynells.

In these days Theoo thought it right to try
and forget the existence of the Fanes altogether.
She might have been more successful
if it had depended on herself whether she
should ever hear of them again. Theoo had
great strength in doing what she chose, and
her ideas of right and wrong were very decided.
Uncle Henry, the loved authority of
her early life, now stood between her and
them, and the thought of him was still, for
Theoo, to be regarded above all other thoughts.
If she had known that before, she said to
herself, she would never have attempted to

make friends with them. But now the future
was a Httle out of her own power. Any post
might bring a letter from Ada, claiming the
help she had offered ; and then what was she
to do ? That question would press itself on
her mind continually, and other questions
seemed to follow after it. One could not rule
one's memory, one could not drive the sad,
troublesome, attractive subject away, when the
postman's knock was always coming to make
one's heart beat quicker.

It was a cold winter, and all through
January Theoo hardly went out, for Lady
Redcliff was ill, and could not bear to lose
sight of her. It was a repetition of last
winter, when she had been with Colonel
North all through his illness. He certainly
was a very different kind of patient, thinking
of everything but himself, while this poor
woman thought of nothing but herself. Still,

she was more bearable In illness than In health,
for she was cheerful, Interested in her symptoms,
and bore pain like the old heathen
philosopher she was. She had every intention
of getting better, and her funny old doctor,
in whom she had more confidence than in
any other living person, told Theoo there was
no cause for fear.

'' Lady Redcliff won't die till she chooses,"
he said ; and, as she looked at him, a little
grave and surprised, he added : '' strength of
mind has a great deal to do with it, and some
people have kept themselves alive for years
by resolution."

"It must be a great effort. I think I
should be too lazy for It," said Theoo.

'' I'm afraid you would," said the
old doctor. '' Pity  it's better to be

active and courageous, like your grandmother."


Is it worth while ? " said Theoo, half to
herself, as he left the room.

Hugh came often to see her in those dark
afternoons. He was tender and kind, and
Theoo looked forward to seeing him with her
old feeling of peaceful trust, wondering now
and then how her grandmother could have
misunderstood him so absurdly. This was
just as Hugh wished, for he had resolved not
to trouble her till Lady Redcliff was quite well
again, and her mind was at rest.

At last, one mild afternoon in February,
when Lady Redcliff was much better, and had
been out for a drive, he called rather late, and
asked Theoo if she would let him take her to
the Old Masters the next day. A picture of
his was there  a Gainsborough portrait of an
ancestress of his own and Tho's. It used
to hang over the writing-table in his father's
library, and had been a familiar friend to him

and Theoooo from their childhood. Theoooo much
wished to go and visit the picture in its
crowded solitude at Burlington House ; she
made Hugh smile by saying that dear Mrs.
Hildebrand, as they called her, must be so very
dull there.

'' I don't think so," he said. *' She has
plenty of friends in the same room."

Theoo looked so happy and sweet, as she
sat by the fire in the twilight and talked
about Mrs. Hildebrand, that Hugh gazed at
her with a mixture of intense joy and pain.
There was no danger of her finding him out,
for she was thinking of the great-great-aunt,
who had been a celebrated beauty in her day,
but who never, Hugh felt sure, could have
had the lovely distinction of Theoo.

'' My darling ! " he said to himself, " I can't
bear it any longer. I shall ask her tomorrow,
and I think she likes me enough, almost."

Theoo little guessed what was in store for
her, though Hugh's manner at parting was a
shade more affectionate than usual.

'then I may come tomorrow, dear?"
he said, bending over her, and holding her
hand for a moment.

'' Yes, please do. I shall be so glad," said
Theoo.

END OF VOL. I.

CHAS. DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS.

(XC c

CCCc C

3 0112 0889fi7Q4Q

ClC

cco;x, x: ex 

:0 x cc cr

r-CCX'':f

CC CE"-
cc \

< c c

Cc, c

err Cv

<Xc

1

 &

xic. c

t

 c (< c

 . <i:. cc, 

:>D

>3 >

:>  ::>

i > n

OF Thun

IVER.S1TY

or Ill Noise

PsaGg

VOL. II.

"I SAY NO." By WiLKiE Collins.

THE LOVER'S CREED, By Mrs. Cashel Holy.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, By Sarah Tatler.

BY MEAD AND STREAM, By Charles Gibbon.

FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan.

"THE WEARING OF THE GREEN." By Basil,

GERALD. By Eleanor C. Price.

PHILISTIA. By Cecil Power.

PARNELL'S FOLLY. By J. T. Trowbridge. (2 vols.)

LONDON: CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

BY

ELEANOR C. PRICE

Author of " Valentinian" "Mrs. Lancaster s Rival," "The Foreigners," etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the Right of Translation is reserve]

V \ \\\ \

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XVI.

PAGE

A CRISIS I

CHAPTER XVII.

GRANDMAMMA 24

CHAPTER XVIII.

ACROSS THE CHANNEL 4I

CHAPTER XIX.

DARKNESS AT COMO 72

CHAPTER XX.

MAGGIORE 93

CHAPTER XXI.

OVERTAKEN 121

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MADONNA DEL Tasso 150

CHAPTER Xxii

PACK

INFATUATION . 170

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE OBSTACLE IQT

CHAPTER XXV.

MR. Goodwill IN PERPLEXITY 2o8

CHAPTER XXVI.
Gerald's letter 236

CHAPTER XXVII.

DECIDED 266

CHAPTER XVI.

A CRISIS.

Mrs. Hildebrand North, In one of the
smaller rooms of the exhibition, looked very
pretty, and piquante, and charming. She no
doubt thought it great fun, and quite like
old times, to shine thus in public ; she was a
person to whom a dark room with dull people
in it must always have appeared detestable.
She was now on the same wall with several
portraits of her time, and no doubt they
admired each other, gossiped about the last
century, and laughed at this, when they were

VOL. II. B

not occupied In exchanging glances with the
varieties of people who came all day to look
at them. Most of these modern starers
agreed that Mrs. North's portrait was the
prettiest In the room, and her face seemed
to show that she enjoyed even such barefaced
bourgeois flattery as this. Her dark
eyes were smiling, her red lips were smiling,
her hair was drawn up and dressed with
strings of pearls ; a narrow band of black
velvet set off the slender whiteness of her
throat ; her gown was of cream-white brocade,
covered with a fine little running pattern of
red flowers and green leaves. Neither Hugh
North nor his cousin Theoo had any pretensions
to be like this charming ancestress
of theirs. They stood before her and looked
up with smiling recognition, which Mrs.
Hildebrand quite returned. The sight of
them seemed to amuse her very much ; she

smiled mischievously, and fixed her eyes upon
them.

'how well she looks here!" said Theoo.

I used to like her better at home," said
Hugh. " Suppose you sit down here and
look at her for a few minutes. At the door
just now we passed a man I know, and I want
to speak to him. Do you mind } I won't be
five minutes."

Oh no, be as long as you like," said
Theoo ; "I shall be very happy here." And
she sat down opposite Mrs. Hildebrand.

People passed backwards and forwards
between her and the picture, but she took
no notice of them, though they often looked
at her. She was thinking ; for some unknown
reason  perhaps because of a pale gleam of
sunshine that crossed the floor  her thoughts
had gone back to Helen's wedding. She
seemed to be standing once more in the

B 2

chancel, with a few people near her, looking
at Helen, looking at John, and then  dear
me ! what dull stupid things men and women
are, to be sure ! at least, when they marry and
go on living like those two. Theoo's eyes
were bent down ; all that scene passed before
them, one thing, one person after another, just
as they had come then. It was very strange ;
but presently the strangest thing of all happened.
She remembered to be angry with
herself, and lifted up her eyes, breaking off the
vision with a sigh. She looked up again
towards the pictures, but did not reach them,
for there, between her and Mrs. Hildebrand,
stood Gerald Fane.

At first she thought she was still dreaming,
it was so wonderful to see him there,
when a moment before they had both been
standing in the chancel of Linwood Church.
Then he took off his hat, smiling, and she,

becoming fully conscious, got up and shook
hands with him.

I did not see you come In. Did you
see me?" she said. "How odd that we
should meet here ! "

Perhaps It Is," said Gerald. '' I thought
I am only In London for two days, and I
thought I should like to see these old pictures.
I came In here a few minutes ago ; you were
sitting here. I saw you, and I hoped you
would see me presently."

I am very sorry ; I am dreadfully absent,"

said Theoo. " Do you see that portrait ? Isn't

i.
she lovely ! She is a Mrs. North, a very

very great aunt of mine. We came here on

purpose to pay her a visit."

** You are not alone?" said Gerald, giving
one glance to the portrait, and another round
the room.

'' I came with my cousin  with Captain

North. He went away just now to talk to
somebody."

Gerald's countenance fell. Ever since
that day In the autumn, he had made up his
mind that the man he disliked most next to
Warren, or perhaps equally with him, was
this very Captain North. Besides other
reasons, his rudeness to Clarence that day
had never been explained. Clarence was not
likely to explain It. If he had, Gerald's proud
views of his duty would have been likely to
agree with Theoo's own.

As It was she noticed the change in the
young man's manner when she mentioned
Hugh, and then she remembered the great
obstacle, and wondered whether he knew of
It too, and then with sure intuition told herself
that he did not. He looked a little angry,
a little gloomy, but his eyes and brow were
as clear as her own ; there was no shame

there. It was impossible then to puzzle him
with altered behaviour. Theoo felt that she
could not do that, and her manner was if anything
a little gentler and more friendly as she
asked about Ada.

She is very well ; she is at home," said
Gerald. 'rit has been dull work for her
getting through the winter ; however, one

comfort is that Warren is abroad, so

But that won't interest you."

'' Why do you say that ? It does interest
me," said Theoo.

'' It is too good of you ever to think about
her at all."

'you are morbid, I think. You don't
like being in London," she said, looking
at him with a very sweet smile in her
eyes.

I don't know," he said, and his eyes
were bent on the floor.

'' Let us sit down and talk a little," said
Theoo.

She was a very extraordinary young
woman. She knew perfectly well that she
was doing wrong, that for every possible
reason she ought to have kept Gerald Fane
at a distance, remembering vividly certain
warnings she had had. But in fact, self-consciousness
was such a stranger to Theoo,
that even now, at this stage of their history,
she thought of him a great deal more than
of herself ; his troubles, which she knew
or suspected, occupied her whole mind. It
is no use trying to make excuses for her.
Her best friends have always said that
Theoo was not quite like other people. And
singularity has a way of bringing people to
grief in this world.

At any rate, she was singular that day
in ignoring all considerations, and doing

what she chose. Gerald Fane did not
exactly wonder at her, being unaware of
any reason why she should not talk to him,
but he thought her perfectly charming, was
very much encouraged, gave himself up to
the moment with a happy abandonment.
They sat down and talked, not about Ada,
for Theoo saw that the subject made him
sad, and knowing as much as she did, she
could not hint that she would like to know-more.


Mrs. Hildebrand smiled down on them
approvingly as they sat there, perfectly absorbed
in each other. Captain North was
not quite so much pleased. He was hurrying
a little in his return, for his friend had kept
him longer than he intended ; and as he came
through the door he had a full view of the
two faces. It was such a shock to him that
he paused in the doorway, looking at them.

Theoo's smile, the wonderful softness of her
eyes and mouth, were a revelation to him, or
rather a horrid reminder of what he had
seen In the autumn. She had never given
him anything like that in all the years they
had known each other ; and now this spendthrift
puppy, this scapegrace, this swindler's

brother

Hugh was perfectly wild with rage ; he
bit his lip and turned pale ; he could at that
moment have gone to young Fane and collared
him, and flung him on the floor at his
feet. But being a civilised man, with more
than his share of self-command, he was not
likely to run any risk of appearing in the
newspaper. He walked very slowly forward
to where they were sitting. Gerald Fane
rose at once. Theoo looked up at her cousin
quite innocently, but grew grave at what she
saw In his face. When Hugh was deeply In

earnest, and only then, he was very like his
father.

Theoo remembered everything which had
gone out of her mind for the last ten minutes,
and she was not unreasonable enough to
wonder at Hugh's looks.

'you know Mr. Fane," she said to him, and
she got up too, standing between the young men.

'' Certainly," said Hugh, bowing stiffly to
Gerald, whose manner was quite as haughty
as his own.

In another moment Gerald had left them,
taking off his hat to Theoo, who was so much
vexed and confused that she forgot to give
him her hand. After he was gone, Hugh
walked up to a picture, looked at it closely,
and then came back to Theoo, saying in a
quite uninterested voice :

'' Shall we go on, or do you care to stay
here any longer } "

'' Hugh ! " she said in a low pained tone,
'' one would think you knew something against
Mr. Fane himself."

'* What I do know Is quite enough ; suppose
we drop the subject," said Hugh, without
looking at her, and Theoo was silent,
though It must be confessed that she felt very
angry.

Mrs. Hildebrand, perhaps, smiled still more
as her two descendants went away. Walking
through the other rooms, hardly exchanging
a word, treating each other with the stiffest
and most offended air, they certainly did not
look like attractive young people.

It was just as well that Hugh should keep
silence, for anger and jealousy had filled his
mind with unworthy suspicion, and he could
hardly have said much without betraying It.
His whole mind seemed to be in a horrid black
fog ; It was a state of things most unusual

with him, and he had grace and honesty
enough left to be astonished at himself, and
even rather ashamed ; but the thought would
not be driven away  was It possible that Theoo
had made an appointment with Gerald Fane ?
Of course, all the circumstances made such an
Idea totally unreasonable, but jealousy can feed
on the most unlikely morsels.

Theoo's Indignation never lasted long, and
by the time they got back to Lady Radcliffe
would have been ready to laugh and
make friends with old Hugh, from whose elder-brotherly
airs she had suffered before now ;
but he was too ridiculously stern and gloomy
for that.

"Good-bye. You are not coming In?"
she said to him coldly enough, but there was
a gentle, amused look In her eyes that seemed
to speak more amiably.

'' No," he said ; and then he hesitated a

moment : '' Yes, if I can see you alone. There
Is something I wanted to say."

Come in, then. We can go into the
Hbrary,'' said Theoo quietly, and she walked
into the house with a small sigh.

Ill-tempered people were bores, she thought,
and should keep away from their fellow-creatures.
It was particularly painful and
strange to see Hugh so cross, and she could
not  would not  allow that he had any reason
for it. Anyhow, it was certain that talking
would not improve matters, and though she
was half sorry for him, and for what had
happened, she did not feel at all inclined to
submit to a lecture.

She stood by the library fire, with her
hand on the chimney-piece and her eyes bent
down. Hush stood in the middle of the
room, by the round table, on which some forbidding
old books were lying. He looked at

her for a minute before he spoke ; her air
was very still and cold ; but he fancied that
there was a little confusion, a faint tremulousness
about her quiet mouth. And certainly
he had never in his life been afraid of Theoo.
Nothing could be calmer than his own manner
as he spoke to her; outward agitation was
almost unknown to him.

*'Theo," he said, "you must forgive me
if I make a remark  it may offend you, for
I see I have offended you already  but I
think you have forgotten something I told you."

There was a certain authority in his tone,
and this in itself was a serious mistake in
dealing with Theoo. She raised her head and
looked at him, but said nothing.

Do you remember what I told you about
that man's brother } "

You know very well that I do," she
answered coldly.

And it does not make you the least
inclined to avoid these people ? "

Yes, it did," she said in a sudden way,
looking at the fire.

'' Oh, indeed," said Hugh.

'but I have changed my mind," she went
on. '' I don't see why people should be
disgraced and ignored because they have a
horrid half-brother. They are to be pitied."

*sand treated by you and me, under our
circumstances, as particularly intimate friends,"
said Hugh.

She certainly was a riddle to him, or would
have been, if he had not believed her to be
in love with young Fane, and he suffered
double pain, for setting aside his own feelings,
this seemed like a degradation to his proud
beautiful cousin. And indeed she was a riddle
to herself. All her thoughts on the subject
had been so correct at first ; her love and

reverence for Uncle Henry, her resentment
for him, had been so strong. She had owned
so frankly to herself that this meant seeing
and hearing no more of the Fanes. Yes,
she had had many struggles of mind, but a
foolish romantic fancy had been driven back,
again and again, by convictions and resolutions
like these. Then came to-day, and perhaps
it was true that she had been a little mad,
but she could not acknowledge it, hardly even
to herself, and certainly not to Hugh, who
seemed to her to be quite stepping out of
his proper place. If she knew at heart that
her cause was a bad one, it was not likely
that she would confess as much to him.

Be honest, Theoo ; don't play tricks with
yourself' he said, his bitter tone changing
into an earnest one. " You are angry with
me, but that is not fair ; it is unworthy of
you. I don't want these people to be disgraced

VOL. n.

or ignored. I didn't even tell John Goodall
what I knew about Litton."

'* Didn't you ? That was kind ! " said
Theoo.

Something scornful in her voice stung him
into anger again.

'you are perfectly infatuated," he said.
'you know nothing of this young Fane 
absolutely nothing. You might never have
seen him if Goodall had not been idiot enough
to bring him to the wedding. He knows
nothing of him either. I can tell you a man
does not often leave the army as a boy, ashe
must have done, without some bad scrape
to account for it. And a man who was good
for much could not work with Clarence Litton,
if he was his brother ten times over. I tell
you

He stopped, for Theoo looked up, and ina
moment she said :

'you know no more about that than I
do. I want to know why you use such a
word as 'infatuated' to me."

'' Your manner to-day was reason enough,"
said Hugh.

I think you had better go now," she said,
in a very low, cold voice, and she turned her
face away from him.

Her cousin hesitated a moment. He was
terribly disturbed ; he had hardly ever in his
life felt so angry or so miserable. All his
philosophy and self-control  the possessions in
which he had been so superior to other people
seemed to have melted and vanished away ;
they left him a wretched, anxious, ordinary
man, quarrelling with the one person he loved,
and in the failure of all hope, feeling himself
lost and whirled away in a storm of bitter
passion.

Theoo did not look round, and after waiting

c 2

for a few seconds with his eyes fixed upon
her, Hugh took up his hat and went out of
the room. But when he reached the front
door he could not go any further, and in
another minute he was back In the Library,
where Theoo was still standing, looking Into
the fire, as he had left her.

She looked up when he came In again,
rather absently, with eyes full of proud yet
gentle reproach.

Hugh went up to her, holding out his
hand, and she gave him hers at once.

"Yes, we forgot to say good-bye," she
said carelessly and very low. *' Good-bye,
Hugh."

"Theoo  my dear," he said, " I don't think
you have the faintest notion how I love you."

She drew back her hand and looked at
him with a slight frown, as If she did not
understand what he was saying.

He went on talking with a voice which
could not be kept steady.

I have only that one excuse for making
you angry. I spoke like a brute just now
you must forget it. I certainly have no
right to find fault with you. But, Theoo,
when a man loves a woman as I love
you Are you too angry to listen to me ? "

** What do you mean ? " she said.

Hugh North had often admired Theoo's
air and glance of supreme scorn, when they
were bestowed on other people. This was
the first time he had felt the power of them
himself.

Are you too angry to understand ? " he
said, the colour coming into his face. '* You
can't forgive me for warning you. You
think I had a selfish motive, I see. So I
had  everybody has ; but you know very
well all the time that I was right."

I don't care about your motives," said
Theoo. '' I don't understand you. Please go
away now. Grandmamma will want me."

I am not going away," said Hugh.

He was standing opposite to her, and
she made a little movement to pass him.

' I must go, then," she said.

Hugh put out his hand and touched her
sleeve. She stood still, and then she looked
into his face with a softer expression, and
said slowly :

'' You have never in your life been rude
and unkind to me till to-day. I don't know
what is the matter with you ; but go away
now, and I will try to forget all about it, if
you wish."

"If I wish ! There's only one thing I
wish for in the whole world. I have waited
all the winter, and I meant to tell you today.
And then, owing to that  well, everything

went wrong. But you shall listen in
spite of it, for I can't stand this any longer.
Theoo, don't you think you could marry me,
dear ? "

No  never, never, never ! " Theoo
answered, and she shivered all over, and
the clear paleness of her face became a
sudden deepening crimson, as she turned
away from Hugh, and walked across the
room and left him.

He was almost stunned for the moment
by her words and manner. He looked after
her rather helplessly ; it seemed impossible
that she was really gone ; but when several
minutes had passed by, and she did not
come back again, he went out of the room,
and through the hall, and finally out of the
house this time, walking at first a little
unsteadily, like a man in a dream.

GRANDMAMMA.

Theoo felt as if she had gone through an
earthquake, which had shaken down all her
shelters and defences, and left her standing
alone among the ruins. After the adventures
of that day, she was intensely tired
and deeply sad. In losing Hugh she seemed
to have lost everything, and to her constant,
affectionate nature, the loneliness was dreadful.
It was bad enough for him to be angry
with her  unreasonably angry, she thought,
though with twinges of conscience  but his
making love to her was too perfectly horrible.

There was no way back now into the old
happy days when she had a brother, and
loved him with a peaceful confidence. Her
brother was gone ; perhaps he had never existed,
except in her own imagination. Helen,
Hugh  her own belongings, her own playfellows
 they were both dead, Theoo thought
in her misery. But Helen's death had been
gradual, while Hugh's was a shock that she
could hardly bear or understand.

So her grandmother had been right about
him ! But her hints had made very little
impression on Theoo's dreamy mind, and
certainly had not prepared her for the horror
of the fact. How Lady Redcliff would
triumph, if she knew  what Theoo certainly
did not mean to tell her.

For two or three days she bore her
trouble in silence ; she was very gentle and
tender to her grandmother, whose returning

health showed itself in the old irritable ways.
At last, one evening, when Theoo had played
at bezique with more than usual carelessness,
and when she was sharply reproved had
made no answer, but had gone quietly away
to the fire with a book. Lady Redcliff burst
out :

Theoo, you are the most odious young
woman ! What are you sulking about now ?
Come out of that corner and talk to me.
Since that day you went to the pictures with
your cousin, you have not spoken a single
word."

Haven't I ? " said Theoo, a little startled
by this accusation.

The fact was that something else had
come to trouble her  something more present,
more interesting, perhaps more dangerous,
than that discovery about Hugh. Twice
since her visit to Mrs. Hildebrand, she had

looked out of her window In the early morning,
and had seen a figure strolling In the
distance through the square, with the air of
some one she knew, and had once more,
since that day, promised herself to avoid.
And this very afternoon, coming in from
a drive with her grandmother, he had met
and passed them close to their own door.
Theoo had seen him very well, though she
would not look at him, for she hardly felt
as if she could meet his eyes calmly.

Infatuated! That was Hugh's word, and
Theoo flushed with anger as she thought of it.

She had taken great care, when she got
out of the carriage, and followed her grandmother
into the house, not to look where
she knew he was, twenty yards away. She
knew very well that he had seen her ; she
was vexed, and wished that he would keep
away ; and yet  she hardly knew what she

wished ; she was overstrained and miserable.
Her eyes looked hollow, her cheeks pale and
thin, as she laid down her book and came
nearer to her grandmother's arm-chair.

I wish you would go back to Staffordshire,"
said Lady Redcllff; "I'm tired of
your dull looks."

"Theoore Is no peace anywhere," said Theoo.
But I would rather stay here. If you don't
mind."

"I do mind ; but of course a selfish girl
like you always has her own way," said
Lady Redcllff, her sharp eyes studying Theoo's
face with a curious uneasiness. "Why don't
you want to go back to Staffordshire ? Has
he left It ? Is he here  In London ? As
for peace, you know that's all humbug. You
don't want that. You wouldn't have It If he
was In this room."

Theoo tried hard to look unconcerned, to

raise her eyes and answer with composed
dignity, but her eyeHds refused to be lifted,
and the long lashes were suddenly wet with
two villainous tears. For once she shrank in
fear from her grandmother's mockery, and
was turning to escape from the room, when
Lady Redcliff said in a deeper voice than
usual, perhaps not without a suspicion of
laughter in it :

'' Don't run away from your old grandmother,
baby. Take courage, now, and tell
me all about it. You were getting better, but a
fresh attack has come on these last few days.
I've been in love myself, though you may not
believe it, and your grandfather was not by
any means the first of them. So nothing you
have to say will astonish me, my dear. You
must tell somebody ; you haven't many friends,
and that Goodall woman would tell her husband,
so, faute de mieux, here's me."

Theoo walked slowly back towards the fire.
Her grandmother's kindness was a rare thing,
and comforting, though It did not drive the
tears away.

'' I have nobody in the world but you,"
she said.

You know I am a witch," said Lady
Redcliff, after a moment's silence. '' Now I
know what happened the other day when you
went to see the pictures, and I shall tell you,
because I know you won't tell me."

Theoo made no answer.

'you will believe me another time," Lady
RedclifT went on. '' Hugh North asked you
to marry him  didn't he ? "

Theoo still kept silence.

'you needn't answer, for I know It," said
her grandmother. "Stupid ass! I hope you
snubbed him nicely, and that he won't come
here any more."

'' I don't think he will," said Theoo, under
her breath.

'' Offended, probably  conceited fool !
Well, you had no right to be surprised, for
I . warned you. But what is making you so
miserable now ? Sympathy for him ? "

'' Don't talk about him, please," said
Theoo.

''No, poor wretch! he is quite uninteresting.
I should have liked to see him  but,
however, as you say, he's knocked off, and
there's an end of him, I hope. And now,
witch as I am, I can't tell you quite so much
about the other one, except that you met him
in Staffordshire."

'' Grandmamma, you are too dreadful," said
Theoo, her mouth curling in spite of herself
into a smile, while she rested her hand and
head on the chimney-piece. '' There is no
other one  at least there ought not to be."

Ah, that's a very different question," said
Lady Redcliff with a small grin. '' ' Is,' and
ought to be ! ' even you, good as you are,
and brought up  even you can't make those
two jump together always. Why are you so
unhappy about it ? I suppose he has no
money. Then he can't be a snob, like
the Goodall creature. Where did you meet
him first ?  at their house ? "

No, they don't approve of him," said
Theoo.

Then I am sure I should," muttered Lady
Redcliff, and Theoo looked round with a sudden
brightness in her face.

Do you know, I believe you would like
him very much," she said ; but then the clouds
came back, and she hid her eyes again.

"Well, where did you meet him?" said
Lady Redcliff, restraining a chuckle.

She had to repeat her question once or

Twice, and she did It with wonderful patience,
for she was really interested.

'' At Helen's wedding," said Theoo at last.

'* Dear me ! Did he run after you into
Staffordshire, then ? "

Oh no ; he lives there ; he was John's
best man."

I thought you said they didn't like
him ? "

'' Theooy don't, now," said Theoo.

There was always a darkness and dinginess
about Lady Redcliff's room, with the one lamp
standing on her little table. She sat herself
in the light of it, small and wizened, and
wrapped in a black shawl. Everything about
her was black : her eyes, her cap, her gown ;
she was like an old raven sitting there, talking
hoarsely, laughing sometimes with a painful
croak. She peered curiously across at Theoo,
standing in all her young grace and beauty

VOL. II. D

in the shadow of the fire ; now and then a
flame sprang up and Halted her pale face, the
softly rounded outline of her cheek.

Don't imagine, grand mamma," said Theoo
presently, when she had conquered her tears
and gained a little self-control, "that I "

Of course not. Preposterous ! Don't I
know my own sex better than that ? " said
Lady Redcliff in the highest good-humour.
"Now tell me his name, and then let us have
the whole story."

The name deepened her interest still more,
for strange to say, her own first love, perhaps
sixty years ago, had been a Captain Fane.
But he was poor, and her father had sent
him away, and he had been killed somewhere
on the other side of the world, in some skirmish
with refractory savages. The hard old face
softened as she told Theoo the story in a few
half-mocking words.

*' And as that certainly was a life worth
saving," she said, '' I have never believed in
anything but Nature since. Yes, Miss Theoo,
I went through fires then, which you cold-blooded
modern creatures have no notion of.
That was long before I came across your
Meynells, my dear. Not one of them  no
one I ever met in my life  was as beautiful
as Charles Fane. If your man is related to
him, I shall ask him to come and see me."

Theoo sat on a footstool by the fire, and
listened to all this, her eyes fixed earnestly
upon her grandmother. It seemed easier to
talk now, and, after a few minutes, she told
her simply and truly the whole story of her
acquaintance with the Fanes. She mentioned
Mr. Litton and Mr. Warren ; in fact, she told
Lady Redcliff all the complications, and went
on very calmly till she came to that adventure
at Burlington House the other day. Then

D 2

her voice shook, and she looked away at the
fire, but still she went bravely on :

'' Hugh brought me home  and you were
right about him. I wish he would not have
made me so very unhappy. I seem to be
in a sort of maze altogether ; and now, grand-mamma,
you see I am really telling you
everything. I have seen Mr. Fane in the
square three times since then, though he told
me he was only in town for two days. I saw
him this afternoon, when we were getting
out of the carriage."

"How dreadfully shocking!" said Lady
Redcliff. " Why didn't you call him, and
introduce him to me ? You are a stupid
child, Theoo ! "

** I know I was right," said Theoo
sadly. ''He had much better keep away
altogether."

"You don't wish to see him again ."

"No I don't think I do. It will be
better not."

The soul of prudence ! " said Lady Red-cliff
with a slight sneer. 'well, I dare say
you are right. It must be a disgraceful position,
manager of a coal-mine  not fit for a
gentleman  and I suppose the pay would
hardly keep you out of starvation. You would
have his little sister on your hands, too, for
though no doubt she might prudently marry
that rich beast, I suppose you wouldn't let
her; and besides, he wouldn't be a nice

connection'*

Please don't talk like that. I can't bear

it, and you don't understand me at all," said
Theoo, colouring deeply.

*' Why, I was praising you. I said you
were the soul of prudence."

I am not, grand mamma. I don't think
money and position matter in the very least.

But that affair of Uncle Henry's  that does
matter tremendously."

One wouldn't choose exactly to have a
rascal in the family, though they are often
very pleasant," said Lady Redcliff. *ras
to North's reasons, I can't  enter into them,
and I don't see why they should affect
you."

"Ah no, you don't," said Theoo sadly. She
got up, drawing herself slowly to her full
height with a sigh. *' Will you go to bed
now ?  it is very late," she said.

'you have nothing more to tell me .' " said
Lady Redcliff.

Theoo shook her head.

I want to forget it all now," she said,
so don't ask me any more questions. I
sometimes think I had better go out as a
missionary."

*' Do. Your adventures would be so

amusing, and nobody wants you In England."
said her grandmother.

She behaved very well to Theoo after that
evening, watched her anxiously, and made her
go out as much as she could.

Mr. Fane was not seen again In the square.
As the spring days went on, Theoo did
not brighten with the sunshine and the leaves ;
she looked, Indeed, so 111 and unhappy, that
Lady Redcllff one day asked old Dr. Peters
what was to be done with a tiresome goose
of a girl.

"What is the matter with Miss Meynell ?"
said Dr. Peters. *' Is It lungs, or heart?"

'' Heart," said Lady Redcllff, making a
face. Fortunately Theoo was not in the
room.

'those are difficult cases," said Dr. Peters.
'change and amusement. Miss Meynell's
organisation is different from yours. Lady

Redcllff. Her circulation is not so good, and
her spirits are naturally low."

''Oh, stuff! they used to be excellent,"
said Lady Redcliff. '' She is not one of your
limp girls ; she has a violent temper."

"Well, well," said the doctor soothingly.
Change and amusement, I say. Go to the
Italian lakes for a month or two, and take
her with you. It would do you both all the
good in the world."

'what! I?" said Lady Redcliff. "You
are mad. Dr. Peters ! Good-day to you."

ACROSS THE CHANNEL.

Though Lady Redcliff was not exactly the
confidante that most girls would have chosen,
there was no one else in the world to whom
Theoo could have told her story. If circumstances
had given her friends of her own age,
this would have been still the same ; the most
sympathetic of them would not have been to
Theoo what her hard, ill-tempered, sarcastic, unloving
old grandmother was. There was some
strange mysterious link between them, and their
frequent quarrels never ended in a real misunderstanding
; through all difficulties they kept

their respect for each other, and their odd,
cold, mutual love. No one would have
dreamed of expecting an affectionate word
or a caress from Lady Redcliff, and Theoo,
with so much tenderness and softness in her
nature, never even kissed her grandmother ;
yet that evening she had told her all that was
in her heart, almost more than she knew
herself; and when she felt ashamed of this
confidence afterwards, and wished she had
been wise, and hard, and strong about it all,
there was still comfort in the thought that
grand mamma knew exactly what she meant,
and would stand by her, whatever turn events
might take in the future.

That was a very lonely spring. She did
not wish to see Hugh, and never saw him.
Helen wrote a short letter now and then, without
a word of news in it. All the stir of the
London season went on around Theoo, she saw

names of her cousins here and there in the
Morning Post, but she was alone in the middle
of it all.

At last one night she found herself at the
hotel at Dover, with her grandmother in a
terribly bad temper. Combe, Lady Redcliffs
maid Sparrow, and Jackson, the butler, were
in attendance. Lady Redcliff had made up
her mind suddenly to go abroad, and Theoo
had submitted to be carried off, without much
feeling of pleasure or pain. She was glad to
leave London, but she did not care at all for
the idea of lakes, or mountains, or foreigners
There had been two or three weeks of tiring
warm weather ; it was now the end of April,
but on the very day they left London it rained
and blew in a tiresome, stormy manner, and
Theoo felt almost as cross as her grandmother,
as she looked out from the '' Lord Warden " on
a muddy unpleasant sea.

The next morning things looked a little
brighter, the sun flashed out now and then
through hurrying' clouds driven by a strong
north-west wind. Theoo went out early with
Combe, and walked about Dover. Combe was
dismal ; she hated hotels and travelling, and was
angry with Lady Redcliff for starting off so suddenly,
giving one hardly time to pack, much
less to get Miss Theoo a proper travelling-dress.

Don't be silly, Combe," said Theoo as
she grumbled on. '' Any old clothes will do
to travel in."

*' I never could bear those foreign hotels,"
said Combe. 'england is the place for me ; and
it's not only me, Mrs. Sparrow is of the same
opinion, and she says her ladyship would be
much better at home at her age, and with her
uncertain health. She and me, we both have
a feeling that this foreign trip will lead to no
good, Miss Theoo."

'' You are both cowardly, and afraid of a
little discomfort," said Theoo. '' Suppose I
was going out to Africa as a missionary, which
I think of doing some day, you wouldn't
come with me, of course. Combe ? After all,
though," smiling rather drearily at herself, **a
missionary with a lady's maid wouldn't do,
would it ? "

"Miss Theoo, If you went to tropic lands, or
to the frozen ocean, there's nowhere I wouldn't
follow ; and you know that well," said Combe
with tears Indies eyes. '* But I don't like to
hear you joke on a serious subject, miss."

They had just reached the porch of the
'' Lord Warden." Theoo was smiling, partly at
her own ideas, partly at Combe's protestations.
Jackson was looking out for them with an
anxious face ; but before he could speak, a
young man with a brown overcoat came out
and met them face to face.

There were a few hurried, confused exclamations
: '' When did you come ? Are you
staying here ? " and so on ; but after the first
moment Theoo was conscious that Gerald Fane
did not look half so happy, half so much
pleased to see her as that last day in the
picture-gallery. Perhaps it was because poor
Theoo, for once, was hypocritically careless in
her manner to him.

''If you please, miss," said Jackson, 'her
ladyship is waiting for you. She is quite ready
to go on board."

going on board!" said Gerald, astonished.

We are going to the lakes  to Basle
first," said Theoo. "Good-bye."

Oh no  so am I." Theoo thought he
said that, but he was gone, and she hurried
up at once to her grandmother s room.

Lady Redcliff was in a terrible fuss.
She scolded Theoo bitterly for running away

to amuse herself, for taking Combe, and
leaving all the bother before starting to her
and that wretched, useless Sparrow.

She and Jackson are two utterly incapable
idiots," cried the old lady. *' Bills to
pay, bags to pack  they haven't got a head ora
pair of hands between them. What did I
bring you and Combe for, if it wasn't to make
yourselves useful ? I declare if we had not
taken that ridiculous sleeping-carriage, I would
go back to town by the next train just to
punish you all. How you can be so selfish,
Theoo, so thoughtless!" She sat in an arm-chair,
and went on scolding at the top of her voice.

Theoo took no notice of her indignation.

*' Are my things ready ? " she said to
Combe. '' Help Sparrow, then ; " and she
pointed to the floor, on which a few bags
and boxes stood open, with Sparrow crying
in the middle of them.

On the whole, It was not a promising
beginning of their foreign tour. Theoo
bore it philosophically, however. She took
command quietly, for Lady Redclift's two
servants really seemed to have lost their
wits for the time. Afterwards she could
not In the least remember what she had
said or done, for her head was entirely full
of something else ; but there was something
about Theoo which brought the most hardened
waiters and chambermaids to her feet ;
and by-and-by she took the whole party
safely down to the boat, Lady Redcliff
keeping up a modified scolding and grumbling
the whole time.

' Give me your arm'to go on board, Theoo,"
she said. '' Get away, Sparrow ; you are
worse than useless."

Theoo turned her head by Instinct at that
moment, and found Gerald Fane standing

close behind her. He was looking very
grave, but as their eyes met she could not
help smiling, and once more his face brightened
all over at her glance.

Lady Redcliff, who was quickness itself,
caught with astonishment the look in the
handsome hazel eyes that were fixed on
Theoo. She took him in at once  a tall
young man, slightly stooping at this moment,
with an odd mixture in his face of boyish
happiness and discontent, with a certain elegance,
and yet no air of prosperity, but rather
the reverse. It was a quick, nervous face,
without much strength in It, perhaps, but
also without the smallest touch of heaviness
or stupidity.

'who's that?" said Lady Redcliff.

"Mr. Fane, grand mamma," said Theoo
gently.

I thought so. Will you give me your

VOL. II. B

arm across these planks, Mr. Fane ? I'm
a nervous old woman, and I hate traveling."

Gerald instantly came forward, and took
her on board with the greatest care. Theoo
followed, with a painful flush in her face.

Why should her grandmother have said,
*' I thought so ! " What a thing to say !
What would Mr. Fane understand by it ?

This same thought may have struck Lady
Redcliff herself, for as Gerald guided her
along the deck she looked up at him and
said :

Do you know how I recognised you just
now ? "

Did you ? No, really I don't," said
Gerald.

I once knew some one of your name,"
said Lady Redcliff. ** He must have been
a relation, for you are the very image of
him."

'*My father, perhaps?"

"No  nor your grandfather. He never
married, and died young. I can't talk
in this crowd. Are you going on with
us ? "

'' I believe so. At least, as far as Basle,"
said Gerald, glancing round to see if Theoo
was following.

She came up just then to the other side
of her grandmother.

'' You will go below, won't you ? " she
said. "It is cold on deck, and they say it
is going to be rough."

"Yes, I'll go below," said Lady Redcliff
Mr. Fane will help me down those dreadful
stairs, I'm sure."

Gerald did this, and fled. Theoo stayed
a few minutes with her grandmother, and
then, leaving her and the maid in settled
misery, came on deck, wrapped in a large

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
UXINOIS LIBRARy.

shawl, and sat down in a breezy place,
looking out over the rough, green sea.

The spray damped her hair ; the fresh
salt wind painted her pale cheeks a pretty
red. As the boat went driving along, the
air and movement seemed to bring new life
to her whole nature. She began to feel a
wild, happy excitement, as if she was riding
Aster fast over a boundless stretch of moor.

She wished in her mind that it was all
sea, that for days, and weeks, and months
she could be carried on thus. Then, with
a little self-reproachful smile, she thought
that few people on board would agree with
her.

She could not help saying what she felt
to Gerald Fane, who presently came across
to her from the other side of the boat, where
he had been smoking.

'' Isn't this glorious, and fresh, and delightful

? " she said to him. " How one would
enjoy a long voyage ! There is such freedom
in the sea."

** Yes' said Gerald. But he was not very
enthusiastic. 'may I sit down here?" he
said. *' It is very strange to meet you again
like this."

Theoo forgot the glorious freshness of the
sea, and looked at him with a quick glance.
He spoke so sadly that she was puzzled.

In their last talk  those ten minutes at
Burlington House  he had been ready to
forget everything but the pleasure of talking
to her. What was the matter with him now ?

"Are you going to have a holiday in
Switzerland ?" she said. " Isn't it rather early
for the mountains ? '"'

'* Not exactly a holiday ; those are things
I don't have," said Gerald, staring at the
sea.

Theoo paused a moment ; it struck her
again how very grave he looked, with something
of the hopelessness that had been in
his face that evening at the gate  some silent
trouble that was beyond her curing. And yet,
was that possible ?

'Why doesn't he tell me all about it?"
thought Theoo unreasonably. "He is very
stupid." Then she said in a low voice : *' I
am afraid you have been ill. I hope nothing is
wrong with your sister ! "

How did you know ? I believe you know
everything," said Gerald, looking at her.

Her bright sea-colour deepened a little, but
she smiled.

"No, I don't. Tell me," she said very
softly.

"It is a horrid story. I ought not to
plague you with it," said Gerald, after a
pause.

"If you don't mind telling me, I should
very much like to hear. What can it be ? '*
said Theoo anxiously. ** I might be able to
help you."

"No, thanks  thanks, you couldn't," he
said in a tone of great pain. " If I can catch
them, that's all I want  to catch them intime."



Theoo looked up in horror.

My brother took Ada abroad a week
ago ; he said she was looking thin, and it
would do her good. They were going up the
Rhine into Switzerland ; he talked of staying
three weeks or so. Yesterday, by the second
post I got a line from Ada, from Basle, to say
that Mr. Warren had met them there. You
remember that fellow ? "

Yes, certainly," said Theoo, listening with
the deepest interest.

She said Clarence was arranging with

him to go on into Italy, but they wouldn't tell
her where they were going. They laughed
when she asked questions, and told her to
wait a little. She hated Warren more than
ever, and his manners were worse, she said.
She was frightened and vexed, and didn't
want to go on ; she had told Clarence, but he
laughed at her. Unfortunately I know what it
all means, Miss Meynell. That brute wants
to marry Ada, and he and Clarence know very
well that they will never get my consent, so
they think they are going to do without it.
Now you understand that I'm mad with impatience,
and I mean to travel night and day
till I catch them," he said, setting his teeth,
and pressing his hands together. 'Mt's a
wild-goose chase, but I may find out at Basle
where they are gone. Ada wrote to me without
Clarence's knowledge, so he won't guess
that I am on the track  old rascal ! "

'' But it seems to me most wonderful that
he should wish it," said Theoo, after a moment.
I thought he was kind to your sister."

He finds himself so mixed up with
Warren, so bound that he can refuse him
nothing. If you will believe me, this is an
old bargain between them. I knew nothing
of it till one day last autumn, while you were
at Woodcote. Clarence and I fought over it
then, and I did make him promise to say
nothing to Ada till after she was seventeen 
that's a fortnight ago now. I was a tremendous
fool to let him take her abroad, but
if I thought at all, I thought Warren was far
enough off in Italy  he was in Sicily when
we heard last  and she had had such an
awfully dull winter, poor child ! with no one
but me, and no friends near, and she liked
the idea of going."

*' Don't be unhappy," said Theoo, as he

stopped suddenly. "It is a great trouble, but
you will catch them in time, I feel sure."

'' I don't seem to realise what a trouble it
is," said Gerald, 'rand yet I haven't slept since
I got her letter."

Do you know I am not entirely surprised,"
said Theoo after a few moments of
silent sympathy. " I heard a report last year
when I was at Woodcote, but I could hardly
believe it."

Who from ? " asked Gerald almost sternly.

Some one had heard Mr. Warren talking
in a railway carriage. None of us liked
to believe it. It was very much on my
mind when I came to see your sister that
day, but I saw she knew nothing, and I
felt sure you would take care of her ; but
I took one liberty, for which you must
forgive me. I gave her my address, and
told her to write to me if she ever wanted

any help  if I could do anything for her, I
mean. Of course I knew she had you,
but still a girl sometimes wants a girl to
speak to."

"It was angelically kind of you," said
Gerald. " But that brute  talking about her
in a railway carriage  that would astonish
Clarence, I think. If I ever get at him "

Theoo was almost startled by the energy
of anger in his face and voice, yet she
admired It ; It was a little catching, too,
and there was a lovely light in her eyes as
she looked at him. She liked Gerald all
the better because he could almost forget
her presence in his anger for Ada, and a
wild wish crossed her mind that they, too,
were going to tear on night and day till
they overtook those scheming men, and
rescued Ada. Her grandmother would have
entered Into such a plan very heartily

some years ago ; perhaps she was too old
for it now, and there was an odd incongruity
in the thought of Combe, and Sparrow,
and Jackson, all chasing over Europe
with their many packages, turned, as it were,
into active members of a police force.

She resolved, however, that her grandmother
should hear the story, which would
interest her still more in Mr. Fane and his
doings.

The passage was only too quick for these
people, who had much more to say to each
other than could possibly be said in an .
It was true that after Gerald had
poured out his troubles and anxieties, and
began to realise more and more vividly
who was near him, listening to him, his
talk did not run quite so easily. But there
was so much to say, so much to find out,
if only one had dared to use one's tongue.

As one could only look, the pain and doubt
were as great as the pleasure ; yet it was
not only Gerald who felt a kind of despairing
chill when they reached Calais Pier.

'what a horrid crowd! Where's Mr.
Fane ? I want him to take me on shore,"
said Lady Redcliff, emerging from the cabin.

'' Take my arm, grand mamma. Won't that
do ? " said Theoo.

'' No, it won't. Where is he } "

Theoo did not at all intend to answer
these imperious questions by summoning
Gerald, and putting her grandmother in his
charge ; but at that moment he came up,
saying in a low voice : '' Can I be of any use?"
and Lady Redcliff instantly took possession
of him.

Theoo could not help being a little amused,
as she followed them along the station, to
hear her grandmother telling him their arrangements

for the journey, and asking him to order
luncheon for them. As they went into the
buffet, Gerald looked at Theoo with a smile
which was both a question and an apology.
The answer being satisfactory, he devoted
himself to Lady Redcliff's wishes with a sort
of quiet enthusiasm, and did not leave them
till they were safely established in their
carriage.

"I'm going second-class, but I shall see
you at [some of the stations," he said as they
parted.

"Yes; we shall expect you to look after
us ; you are a very useful person," said
Lady Radcliffe

looked at Theoo, took off his hat,
and went away.

I am in love with him too," said Lady
Redcliff, tucking herself up on her sofa.

I thought we were making a little too

much use of him," said Theoo dreamily, as
the train began to groan and rattle, and move
slowly on.

** Don't be jealous ; he doesn't belong to
you yet," said Lady Redcliff. *rand Tm
afraid it won't do, my dear, so you need not
exert yourself to be angry. That man will
never make his fortune ; he is far too much
of a gentleman. He is born to spend money,
not to scrape it together, and the want of it

has soured his temper a little already. No,

it won't do, Theoo ; those stupid cousins of

yours were right for once. Do you mind

much, child ? "

Theoo made no answer ; she was staring out

of the window at the masts of Calais,

*' I hope he isn't going to dawdle about

the lakes too ? " said Lady Radcliffe

Oh no, indeed," said Theoo, turning to

her grandmother with flushed cheeks and

shining eyes. " He has something very different
to think about."

As they travelled on towards Amiens, she
told her grandmother the story that Gerald
had told her on board.

'* The men are beasts, and the girl is a
fool," said Lady Redcliff. '' I suppose you
want to go and look for her too."

I can't, you know," said Theoo.

'* No ; you are tied and hampered by your
duty to me. Luckily for you, perhaps," said
Lady Redcliff rather thoughtfully. " No, I
like the young man ; he is intelligent, and his
face is so very familiar ; but I can't have you
and myself entangled with a lot of second-rate
people."

' Second-rate, grand mamma! You are as
bad as the Goodalls."

** Heaven forbid ! Don't insult me, or
I'll take you back to England from the next

station. Money-grubbing people who come
out of coal-pits are not exactly the companions
for you and me, Theoo ; therefore if we drop
upon these runaways anywhere, you are to
understand that I'll have nothing to do with
them."

"You can do as you please' replied Theoo.
'' I shall take Ada Fane, and keep her till her
brother comes."

This was a very fair beginning of a quarrel,
but it was checked by Amiens Station, and
the appearance of Gerald, who told Theoo
rather shyly that if she liked to hurry to the
buffet there was just time for a cup of tea.
Lady Redcliff's face cleared up at the sight
of him.

*' Get along," she said to her granddaughter,
" and come back in a better temper''

She thrust her old head, wrapped in a
black shawl, out of the carriage window, and

VOL. II. F

hats laughed, half sighed, as she looked after
the two slim young creatures hurrying up the
platform.

'* I can't stand that boy's eyes at all," she
muttered to herself. '* But nonsense, it won't
do ! I haven't got enough to leave Theoo, and
if I had I can't die for their benefit ; that's
rather too much to expect. It's a tiresome,
provoking business, for of course it must come
to nothing in the end. I wish that silly old
Peters had never told me to go abroad. Ah,
there you are, Sparrow ! Ashamed of yourself,
I hope."

Poor Sparrow, who had come from her
own carriage to see if her mistress wanted
anything, was a convenient object of wrath
till Gerald Fane brought Theoo back again.
She was looking happy and lovely ; the cup of
tea seemed to have done all that her grandmother
could have wished.

Lady Redcliff glanced from her to Gerald,
and something seemed to touch her hard old
heart. When he was gone, and they were
off again, she made no more attacks on Theoo
and her friends, but lay curled up like a black
cat in the corner, watching the girl under
half-closed eyelids, as she sat upright, and
looked out quietly over the broad yellow
fields and sweeping down the plains of France,
where the sun was setting.

They saw Gerald again at Vernier, where
he dined with them. Theoo was rather silent,
but Lady Redcliff talked a good deal to him,
and discovered that her Captain Fane was his
grandfather's brother. This lifted him very high
in her favour. Probably Gerald himself did not
care much, having quite enough to occupy his
mind that evening ; but he was perfectly polite
to the old lady, who for her part had not been
so civil to any one for years.

Then came the long, dark, weary, clamorous
night. As they rushed along Lady
Redcliff slept quite peacefully, but Theoo remained
wide-awake all through those hours ;
and so did Gerald in his part of the train.
Then came green valleys and fir-woods in
the early morning, and Basle, and the "Three
Kings." Gerald went with them to the hotel,
hoping to find his brother's name in the
Visitors' Book ; but it was not there, and he
started off to search the other hotels for it.
Poor little Ada, in her haste and anxiety, had
only dated her letter from Basle.

In the evening he came again to the
"Three Kings." A few people, looking more
or less bored, were turning over papers in the
salon. Lady Redcliff was there, in a large
arm-chair by one of the windows. She did
not look at all bored, but very lively and
malicious, and was reading a French novel.

Theoo was not to be seen in the room. Several
eyes were turned on the fine graceful figure and
eager face of the young man, in his travelling
clothes, looking so worn and unhappy. He
came across at once to Lady Radcliffe

have traced them," he said in a low
voice. ' They went from here to Lucerne
for one night, and then on to Como. There
is a train to-night, and I must be off in ten
minutes." He looked round the room again.
*miss Meynell is not here; will you tell her,
and say ' good-bye ' for me ? "

Lady Redcliff looked hard at him for a
moment, smiled, and pointed to one of the
windows, which stood a little open on the
balcony. Gerald stepped out at once into
the evening air, on the long, low balcony
with its drapery of green leaves, into the
rush of the magnificent Rhine, rolling away
to the west. . i.\

At the far end of the balcony Theoo was
standing bare-headed, facing the evening light,
which gilded her dark hair and flushed her
cheeks ; but when she turned to meet Gerald,
the shadow of night and parting was in her
eyes.

The moment was so beautiful, the river and
the sky were so full of happy, solemn glory,
and he had only come to tell her that he was
going. For a minute or two he forgot to
speak ; they looked at each other once, and
then stood a little apart, looking at the rushing
river. But this could not go on ; he began to
speak rather quickly, and told her what he
had just told Lady Redcliff.

"So I must say 'good-bye,' now," he said.

"Good-bye," said Theoo, very low.

"Will you think of me now and then,"
said Gerald, with a sudden passionate sadness
in his voice, " and  hope I may be in time " "

"You know I will' said Theoo.

He stood silent a moment longer, looking
down into her face, but she did not look up
at him.

'' Good-bye ! " he said again, and he suddenly
stooped, caught both her hands, and
kissed them. '' Forgive me  say you forgive
me ! You have known it all this time, and
one can't live for ever on nothing."

Then bells began to ring, and clocks to
chime in the city.

I must go," he said ; and then Theoo
lifted her eyes, but he was gone.

He hurried through the salon, where Lady
Redcliff shook her head at him, and called out :

'' Let us hear of you."

As for Theoo, she stood still on the balcony
in a dream, while the Rhine flowed past her
feet in his strong, majestic current towards the
red and orange and purple sunset sky.

DARKNESS AT COMO.

When Ada said in her letter to Gerald that
Mr. Warren's manners were worse than ever,
she was, perhaps, a little hard on the poor
man, who admired her extremely, thought her
shyness, as he supposed it, the prettiest thing
in the world, and wished to make her like
him as much as possible. His perceptions
were so blunt  perhaps that was not his fault
altogether  that he did not feel or realise her
hearty personal dislike to himself, which provoked
Clarence more and more as the days
went on, and he began to see that Ada would

be as unmanageable as Gerald. He did not
tell Warren this, but joined rather sardonically
in all his plans for Ada's amusement, only-trying
to check him a little when he began
to buy presents for her.

'' Take my advice, and keep all that till
you get to Milan," he said. "You'll only
startle her ; she won't know what you mean,
and she won't like it."

' Perhaps you're right," said Warren, rather
disappointed. '' She is different from other
girls, certainly. It is about time, though, for
her to know what I mean."

' I don't advise you to startle her," repeated
Mr. Litton.

Warren laughed, and packed among his
own possessions the Swiss carvings, the little
gold watch, and various trifles in jewellery,
which he had bought in Basle and Lucerne
for Ada,

He was a little troubled in his mind by
her dismal looks ; it sometimes struck him
that she did not care at all for any of the
things they showed her. He had a floating
idea that Clarence was not very kind to her.
To be sure, her brother ought to have known
how to manage her ; but Mr. Warren thought
he could have done it better in his own way,
after all, and he tried to make up for Clarence's
deficiencies by those extra attentions which
made poor Ada more miserable than ever.

After staying a few days at Lucerne, they
travelled on to Como, arriving there late on
a pouring wet day. Ada thought she would
never forget that evening. The rain cleared
off after dinner, and they took her for a
walk through the town, which seemed to be
crowded with fierce, dark-faced people, pushing
along under the shadows of the arcades. The
voices sounded loud, wild, and angry. As

they came back to the hotel, a crowd was
collected at the corner of the square, yelling
like savages, with two men fighting in the
middle of them. Clarence kept her hand fast
in his arm, and she knew she was quite safe,
but she longed to be in her own room. Mr.
Warren was vastly amused with all the noise
and tumult ; he stood on the edge of the
crowd laughing, and calling the Italians many
names in English. Fortunately for him they
were too much interested to take any notice.
The wet, the darkness, the shining trails of
light across the square  all added to the
desolate wildness of the scene. Ada was
frightened, tired, and miserable ; she thought
of home and England with a kind of despair.
As Clarence took her into the hotel, she
asked him whether they were going to stay
long in this dreadful town, and where they
were going next.

*' You don't care for Italy, then," said
Clarence.

'' Italy isn't all like this, I hope," said
Ada, with a slight quiver in her voice.

'' Perhaps not ; but this is a most beautiful
place by daylight. If the sun shines
tomorrow, you will want to stay a week."

** No, I shall not. I hate Como. Where
are we going, Clarence " " she said, standing
still in the glazed court of the hotel, and
clasping both hands round his arm.

He looked dawn rather sullenly into the
fair, anxious little face.

" What a bore girls are with their
curiosity ! " he said. '' What can it matter
to you ? You have seen something. Don't
be a baby. Ask Mr. Warren, if you want
to know ; he is master of the ceremonies."

Clarence expected that his advice would
send her flying away to her room, for

Warren had just followed them into the
court. He was full of the fight going on
outside.

'' Why did you run away, Litton ? The
little fellow punished the big one In first-rate
style, I can tell you. Perhaps Miss
Fane was frightened, though ? "

"It was not exactly a sight for girls,"
said Clarence.

*' Mr. Warren," said Ada, going forward
to him suddenly, with an eager appeal in
her blue eyes which took his breath away,
as he reflected afterwards, '' my brother says
you can tell me where we are going when
we leave Como."

He knows himself ; won't he tell you ? "
silt Warren rather oddly.

He said I could ask you."

"Well, our natural course is to Milan.
That was where I started from to meet you.

and I made arrangements to go back there.
But if you would prefer a tour In any other
direction, you have only to say so."

Oh, no," said Ada, shaking her head,
and looking away from him.

'' Then Milan it shall be," said Warren.
I must say I should like to see you look
more cheerful about it. It's your brother's
temper, isn't it, that spoils all the fun ? I
hope he'll mend it at Milan, or else I shall
propose that we get rid of him. In my
opinion you are a very charming young
lady, and all the goodness of your family
has found its way into you."

Clarence smiled under his thick moustache
as he stood by, and heard this little conversation.
Mr. Warren's obliging expressions
seemed to be quite thrown away on Ada,
who turned from him without a word, and
went away to her room.

The next morning Como was bathed in
brilliant sunshine ; the lake, the hills, the
old squares and arcades of the town, all
were as cheerful and beautiful as they had
been dark, and gloomy, and dismal, the
evening before ; the people who lounged about
on the quays and in the streets looked lazy
and good-humoured ; their savagery had
vanished with the clouds in the sky. Ada
no longer felt afraid of Como ; she came
downstairs early with two letters in her
hand, which she intended to post herself;
Clarence had been too disagreeable at Lucerne,
and had put every hindrance in the
way of her writing to Gerald.

'' Whither away so early. Miss Fane ? "
said Mr. Warren, with the flourishing air
that she specially disliked.

The sight of him was very enraging ; she
had imagined that neither he nor Clarence

would be down yet, and here he was smoking
at the hotel door in the sunshine, looking
red, and sleek, and good-natured, staring at
her with the approving eyes which always
made her angry.

'' I was going to the post with my
letters," Ada replied stiffly.

"What, all alone?"

Yes, all alone," she said, and she walked
past him into the square.

Come, that won't do, you know ; we're
not at Deerhurst," said Warren, following
her.

Ada flashed round upon him with the
pride and passion of a child.

I wish to go alone," she said, standing
still, and looking him in the face. *' Don't
come with me, if you please. Go back ; I
can find the post-office myself."

Warren looked at her, and then at his

cigar ; he screwed up his mouth in a sort of
consternation. Ada turned her back upon
him and began to walk away, but he immediately
followed her.

'' Did you hear what I said ? " exclaimed
the girl, standing still once more.

" Yes, I heard," said Warren, gravely
enough. " I don't wish to vex you, but a
8:irl shouldn't walk about alone in these
countries, especially when she has a face like
yours. That's what I meant by saying we
were not at Deerhurst. As your brother
chooses to lie in bed, it is my duty to see that
you are not annoyed."

But you annoy me yourself," said Ada.

*' Sorry for it," he answered, with a queer
smile.

She looked round, with a sort of despair,
at the houses, at the lake, at the two letters
she held in her hand ; then, with a quick, im-vol.

II. Q

patient movement, her eyes suddenly filling
with tears, she turned to go back to the hotel.
Warren followed her, and stopped her on the
stairs. She would not look at him now ; she
could not, for crying. Of course he saw the
tears very well, and his manner, which had
not been rough all along, became a good deal
gentler.

" I say, Miss Fane," he exclaimed, '' I
didn't know I was such a brute as that comes
to ; ask Clarence ; he'll tell you I'm right 
he will, really. Shake hands and be friends
now, and give me your letters to post. I'll
take them this moment."

Something told Ada that the odious man
was in earnest, and that she might trust him.
She put out her little hand with the letters in
It ; he gave it a rough squeeze as he took
them. She hurried away to her room, and,
looking out of the window, saw him walking

across the square ; but the effect of his magnanimity
was rather spoilt by the fact that he
was reading the directions on her letters ashe
went along.

Soon after breakfast they strolled to the
cathedral. As they came near to the great
west door, a sound of soft music and voices
told them that service was going on. As a
rule, this would not at all have hindered Mr.
Warren from going in and walking about with
his guide-book, making audible remarks, quite
careless of disturbing other people's devotions ;
but to-day he had something else in his head.
He observed that one church was just like
another, and told Clarence he wanted to talk
to him.

" Would you like to go in and hear the
music?" said Clarence to his sister. ''I will
join you presently."

Ada was only too glad. The sun outside

G 2

was very hot. She crept thankfully into the
solemn shade and coolness of the cathedral.

The air was dim with incense ; the chanting
rose and fell ; the church was full of a great
dark crowd of people on their knees. It felt
like a refuge to this lonely, frightened little
soul, hardly knowing what she was afraid of.
She, too, knelt down, having stepped gently to
a quiet place away from the people, near one
of the side-altars, where Luini's beautiful St.
Sebastian stands, all pierced with arrows.

*' I could never have borne that," thought
Ada. " I should have given in, and done
what they pleased  should I, poor little
coward ! Oh, I wish I had somebody to
take care of me. Oh, mother  Gerald ! "

She thought of somebody else, too, as
she hid her face, and longed to be back
in England. She had written to Gerald
to-day, and another letter to the friend

who had told her to come to her In any
trouble. She had hardly known what
to say, but had just told Theoo the facts
of the case. Theoo was quite clever enough
to understand it all. Ada did not quite
know herself why she was so anxious and
troubled.

Presently the people began to go out of
the cathedral. Then she looked up and saw
Clarence standing near her, with the sacristan
in the background.

'' Have you done your prayers ? " said
Clarence. " Here are some pictures to look
at. No ; I don't care for St. Sebastian. He's
always the same, looks like a pin-cushion. I
believe those martyrdoms were awfully exaggerated,
and the persecutions altogether.
Well, I don't think these pictures are worth
much. I don't care for your Ferrara and
Luinis ; I like a good Titian."

I like these ; they are not so hard to
understand," said Ada.

I dare say they are very well suited to
your little mind," said Clarence. " Come
round here ; I want to talk to you."

Some other people were going on with the
sacristan, and the brother and sister walked
away Into the nave.

'' Shall we go outside ? " said Ada.

The air was still full of incense, the echo
of chanting had hardly died away. Clarence
and his talk were almost too much out of tune
with It all.

'you have been writing to Gerald?" he
said to her.

His tone was not exactly unkind, but hard
and a little mocking. "You poor little fool!"
it seemed to say; "do you think you will
manage your own affairs so easily ? "

Yes," Ada answered quietly ; she did

not feel quite so much afraid now. " I wrote
two letters last night, and Mr. Warren posted
them this morning ; at least, he said he
would."

He did, of course," said Clarence.
*why shouldn't he? You flatter him with
your doubts."

'' Mr. Warren is not always very nice,"
she said; 'but I did not doubt him this
morning."

'* You wrote to somebody else besides
Gerald?"

'eyes; to Miss Meynell," said Ada, flushing
slightly.

I did not know she was a correspondent
of yours," said Clarence very dryly. " However,
she doesn't matter  but pray what did
you tell Gerald ? "

'' I told him  different things. I told him
we were going on to Milan," said Ada, with

sudden courage. " I wanted him to know.
Why shouldn't he know, Clarence ? Why
shouldn't I write to him every day, if I like ? "

Because you are in my hands, and I don't
like," he answered with a smile. " Now, I
bet you. Miss Ada, you asked Gerald to come
to Milan and join us there."

*' I asked him to come and take me home,"
said Ada in a low voice.

"But why? What a hopeless, discontented
little idiot you are ! Here are we two,
doing all in our power to enlarge your mind
and make you enjoy yourself, and you are
such an ungrateful, stupid, dull little thing,
that you do nothing but pine for England
and that sulky fool of a Gerald. Look here,
Ada, tell me at once, what is it makes you
unhappy ? "

Ada looked up to the roof, away into the
dim mysterious choir ; her sad perplexity would

have touched a harder heart than Clarence's.
He felt sorry for the child, regretting that he
had ever mixed himself up in this business,
wondering whether she really had any idea of
the future. He half wished that he could
get out of it, and take her back to England ;
but no, there was too much at stake. Warren
would have the power of punishing him too
severely. It occurred to him that perhaps
he had better change his tactics with Ada 
bullying might not, after all, be the best way
of managing her. Kindness was not an
effort, for he was really fond of her ; only
it made him feel rather more of a rascal than
before. He put his hand on her shoulder
and said in a different tone :

Look here, little one. I thought you
liked coming abroad with me. You were
jolly enough at first, and I thought you were
pleased."

I did like It, Clarence, as long as it was
only you'*

'* Silly child ! what makes you so unkind
to poor old Warren ? He admires you a great
deal more than you deserve. He wants todo
everything to amuse you, and to show
you everything worth seeing. He would spend
his money right and left, if I would let
him, on doing things for you, and he is quite
dismal when he thinks you are not enjoying
yourself."

Ada made no answer, except by a slight
shrug and a little face.

There are other reasons why you should
not be rude to Warren," said Clarence gently.
"He has been my friend for years, you know,
the best I ever had. If I am getting on at all, I
owe it all to him. I owe him more than I can
ever tell you, and so does Gerald, though he dislikes
him and has prejudiced you against him."

' No, he didn't," said Ada. " I disliked
him quite by myself, and Gerald told me to
be civil to him."

Yes, of course, you are grown up now,
and you ought to have good manners. I
don't say whether your dislike is reasonable
or the other way ; but a well-bred woman,
if she has dislikes, doesn't show them. I
think you might remember that. Besides, I
may tell you that Warren is not dense, he's
rather sensitive ; he sees your dislike, and It
hurts his feelings. And if you were to offend
him seriously he might quarrel with me, and
then I should be ruined, and Gerald too.
So you see there's every argument in favour
of civility. It's both polite and politic," said
Clarence, much pleased with himself, for Ada
had listened to all this attentively.

"Well," she said with a little sigh, 'i'll
try to behave better. I'm sorry if I have

vexed you, but I do hope Gerald will come
to Milan."

Clarence's eyes became angry ; he stroked
his moustache and frowned.

*' Perhaps he may," he said, after a moment.

Early the next morning a large carriage
came to the door of the Hotel Volta. The
three travellers, the luggage, and Mr. W barren's
courier wereall packed into it, and it rolled
away through narrow Como streets, out into
the open country.

Ada asked whether they were not going
to Milan by railway. Her brother answered :

"There are many ways to Milan."

Mr. Warren sat silent and rather sulky
in the corner.

MAGGIORE.

The next night but one, Ada found herself,
in still deeper perplexity, looking out from
her window in a great hotel, across a lake on
which a whole sky of brilliant stars were
shining. The lake was narrow here ; beyond
it came a dim outline of dark hills, beyond
and above them solemn ranges of snow mountains
; she could hardly see them now, but she
knew they were there ; at dinner-time, when
she sat between Mr. Warren and Clarence at
the long table downstairs, they had been all
beautiful in a glow of rose, and purple, and

gold. But Ada could not care for them much ;
they were so cold and far away. She was
more interested In the faces at the dinner-table
; her eyes wandered restlessly from one
to another, but she found nothing to comfort
her. No one cared to look at her ; the admiring
stare of two or three young Germans
was a little unpleasant. The Englishwomen
looked stupid and hungry; all the benevolence
and animation they had was bestowed on their
own husbands and children. Ada, between
her two guardians, neither of them attractive-looking
men, did not catch their attention at
all ; and yet they could hardly have given hera
glance without seeing that she was unhappy.
The poor child was completely puzzled.
These two days had been spent in driving
across country, and steaming up this lake, at
the head of which they were now staying.
The drives had been beautiful in their way,

through a country of lakes, and mountains,
and flowers ; at one place near Varese they
had got out of the carriage and gathered great
bunches of lllies-of-the-valley. They had spent
last night in Varese, at the Alberto dell' Europa,
with Its pretty old courtyard and loggia
full of flowers. Then they had driven onto
Laveno, had gone on board there, and
this was Ada's first acquaintance with the
Ago Maggiore. Clarence and Mr. Warren
walked up and down together, smoking their
cigars, and she sat alone, looking dismally
across the brilliant water, hardly seeing any
of the beauty round her, as she wondered
in a kind of hopeless despair what all this
meant, where they were going, how this horrid
journey was to end.

'' Oh, Gerald  Gerald, I wish I had never
come!" the aching lltde heart sighed to itself.

Clarence had laughed at her when she

asked where they were going, and whether
this was all on the way to Milan. Ada's
education had been no great thing, and her
geography was very weak ; she was not much
wiser when, after passing many stopping-places,
and a frontier, where the courtiers
came on board and diverted her thoughts a
little, Clarence pointed to the next place, a
white and red town with campaniles, lying
along at the foot of the hills, half-way up
which a church stood out on a ledge, with a
steep path of stations leading up to It, and
said :

That is Locarno ; we are going to stop
there for a day or two."

'' And are we going to Milan afterwards ? "
said Ada.

That depends on circumstances. Perhaps,
If you are good," Clarence answered,
and he walked away again.

In that great Locarno hotel, far too large
for Its guests, looking down with such dignity
over town and lake, with Its wide, cold,
marble corridors and staircases, Ada felt like
a lost child Indeed as she wandered up to
her room after dinner ; she did not care to
go out, and the reading-room seemed dreadful
with all those strange people in it. Suddenly
at the top of the stairs she met a kind, smiling
face ; it was that of the French femnie-
de-chambre, who was touched by the sight
of this pretty young demoiselle all alone. She
held out a pink camellia to Ada as she
passed.

'' How pretty ! " said Ada, smiling too.

" Mais je vous I'offre ! " said the pleasant
voice ; and Ada, taking the flower, felt quite
a warm little sensation of comfort and kindness.
When she was In her room she sat
down and wrote another long letter to Gerald ;

VOL. II. H

she did not quite know where to send it, but
it was necessary to tell him all her troubles ;
and yet this was a difficult business, for she
could hardly explain what they were. After
that she sat for a long time at her open
window. The night was warm and still ; the
silver jingle of bells In the town, broken by
a deeper clang now and then, was passing
into silence, for Locarno went to sleep early.
Ada had pulled an arm-chair to the window,
and sat there peacefully. She liked her little
brown polished room, with its smart green
furniture, and the pleasant femme-de-chambrc
made her feel safe ; It seemed long since she
had had a kind woman to speak to. She
had almost fallen asleep In her chair, when
she was startled by Clarence's laugh : It
sounded so near, she thought at first that
he was In the room. Then she remembered
that his room was next door, and had a

balcony ; he and Mr. Warren were now
standing out under the stars talking.

'eyes, I mean it," said Warren rather
angrily, in answer to the laugh. '' You have
managed the whole thing about as badly as
you could. How long do you suppose I
am going to kick my heels in these out-of-the-way
corners, dodging that brother of
yours ? "

"The thing is your own fault, remember,"
said Clarence.

*' Upon my word, Litton, I believe you
think I am as bad as yourself. I suppose
you would have pocketed the letters, and
opened and read them, and flung them in the
fire. No, I leave that sort of thing to
gentlemanly scamps like you."

'you couldn't have done it; but you
might have brought them to me, and in
her interest I might have done what I

II 2

chose," said Clarence. '' Look here, though,
I begin to think you are tired of the whole
business. Suppose we give it up, or let it
alone for a year or two."

** No, I won't do that," said Mr. Warren ;
'' I see it is no use trusting to you ; you goon
shilly-shallying, till I expect my prize
will slip through my fingers altogether.
Tired ! no, except of being patient. I wonder
how you and Fane came to have such a little
piece of perfection for a sister."

We are luckier than she is," said
Clarence, half-laughing. 'you have no right
to be angry with me, though, Warren. IVe
reminded you before that there was a condition."


Condition be hanged ! "

Come, I never pretended that I could
make her like you."

"You have not tried," said Warren sulkily.

'' As it happens, I have, and without
much success. The fact is, she is too young
to see your advantages clearly. Take my
advice, and wait for a year or two."

Till she meets some fellow she does
like ? No, I am not going to be cheated in
that way. If this comes to nothing, you
and I dissolve partnership ; your brother loses
his post, and I wash my hands of the whole
ungrateful lot of you."

There was a short pause. Ada sat at her
window like a stone. She never thought of
moving ; indeed she could hardly have moved,
for her limbs, as well as her mind, seemed
to be stiffened with horror. This, then, was
the explanation, the realising of all her presentiments.
Presently Clarence spoke again.
He was evidently putting a strong restraint
on himself; Ada could hear him drumming
with his fingers on the balustrade.

I am ready to fulfil my part of the bargain
you know that," he said.

'' To further the marriage by every means
in your power. That's what you are doing,
is it ? " said Mr. Warren.

I have done and said what I could for
you. What more is in my power ? What
more do you want me to do ? "

'' I'll think about it," said his friend.
Perhaps I may speak to the young lady
myself tomorrow. She must consent before
that firebrand fellow catches us up, or there's
an end of it.'

'ewe are out of his way here, just off the
road," said Clarence. *' He may be cutting
along behind those hills at this moment."

On his way to Milan," said Mr. Warren ;
and both the men laughed.

After this Ada started up, and shut her
window quickly and sharply. It was impossible

for her to hear any more ; she did
not think or care whether they knew she had
been Hastening.

The child's terror was intense, aggravated
by the silence of the night, and the loneliness
of the great hotel. She lay down on her bed,
and with eyes staring into the darkness, tried
to think what she could do. Telegraph to
Gerald ? But where would a telegram catch
him ? Could she speak to the manager of the
hotel, who looked kind and obliging ? But
would he have strength or authority to take
her out of the hands of these men ? Would
any of the English people in the hotel help
her ? Surely they must, if they could
know and believe all ; and yet there had
not been one face among them to which she
cared to appeal. Could she run away ? 
escape back to England ? She had no
money but what her brothers gave her, and

at present there were only a few francs In
her purse.

As one despairing thought after another
crossed her mind, she began to think that she
had known and expected this all along, ever
since Mr. Warren met them at Basle  no,
long before that, ever since she first saw
the horrible man with Clarence at Euston
Station, and began to be annoyed by his
staring, his compliments, and all his other
Impertinences. Then she sobbed and cried
for a long time, till her head ached violently,
and she was too tired to cry any more. Then
she remembered that she had not said her
prayers, and tumbling off the bed she knelt
down for a few minutes and hid her face.
She did not pray in words, or even consciously
in thought ; she just seemed to lay herself
down, her trouble and her loneliness. In the
sight of the only Father she had ; and after

that she crept upon the bed again, and fell
asleep at once like a baby.

The next morning it was raining ; the
lake and the distant mountains were shrouded
in mist, the clouds hung low down the sides
of the hills, and all the lovely colours had
faded away.

Clarence knocked at Ada's door between
nine and ten, and called out to know if she
was ready for breakfast.

I am not coming down. I don't want
any breakfast," Ada answered.

'' What's the matter ? Are you ill ? " said
Clarence, and he turned the handle impatience,
but the door was locked.

Please go away," said Ada.

This, however, was not at all her brother's
intention. When Ada shut her window so
suddenly last night he had been quick enough
to understand what had happened. He had

said nothing to Warren ; and on the whole
he was not so very sorry that things should
thus be brought to a crisis, and that Ada
should clearly understand her position. He
was determined to be very firm with her ;
he had no Idea of being ruined by the obstinacy
of a girl. As Warren was decided, It was
plain that he must be decided too.

'' I am not going away, Ada," he said Ina
low voice. " Don't make a scene. Open
the door, will you ? ''

*' I am not coming down," said Ada from
the Inside.

"" I don't care ; I want to speak to you."

After a little more Insisting she opened
the door. Clarence came In and shut It behind
him.

'now," he said, 'what Is all this fuss
about ? "

The girl stood before him at first without

speaking. She had done her best to cry her
prettiness away ; her cheeks were pale ; her
eyelids were red and swelled ; and though
she could not wash the blue out of her eyes,
or the ruddy gold out of her hair, she was
a dismal little object enough when Clarence
looked at her. For a moment he was touched,
and could not help speaking kindly.

Poor little girl ! Why, what have you
been doing that for ? " he said, laying his
hand on her shoulder ; and he was stooping
to kiss her, but Ada pulled herself away
from him and walked to the window.

Clarence sat down in the corner of her
sofa and looked at her.

In a moment she turned to him again,
and said in a trembling voice :

Clarence, I heard all that you were
saying last night  you and Mr. Warren 
in your balcony."

And I suppose you think you heard
nothing good. Listeners seldom do."

'' How dare you, Clarence! My window-was
open, and you came and talked there.
Any one might have heard you  any one in
the hotel. You are both dreadfully wicked,"
said Ada, so nervously that she was obliged
to lean against the window. " I can't say
all that I think."

Perhaps that is a good thing for me,"
said Clarence half aloud.

'' At first, of course, I could not understand
you, but afterwards I did," Ada went
on. " Clarence, I can hardly believe now
that it was you. You always used to be
kind to me."

** Shut up ; don't be sentimental, my dear
child," said Clarence. " Try to look at the
reasonable side of things. Here are you on
my hands without a penny. Here is a rich

man, and not a bad fellow either, who has
been in love with you for years. You couldn't
surely expect me to snub him  at any rate,
without consulting you ? '*

'* Now you are telling lies," said Ada
more calmly. " For years ! You know that
is impossible, for the man never saw me in
his life till last autumn."

** Don't be more polite than necessary,"
said Clarence slowly, and smiling. "He fell
in love with your picture when you where a
little girl, and proposed the idea to me then
which he wishes to carry out now. Rather
pretty, on the whole, isn't it ? We thought
the quietest and best plan was to bring you
abroad, and then, when you had made up
your mind to it, you could be married at
Milan, and come back to England later in
the summer. However, Warren will tell you
all that himself."

Clarence Litton was not bad enough for
his position. He talked to his sister in this
cold, callous, brutal way, while in his heart
he wished Warren and his money and the
whole scheme on the other side of the
world.

This very struggle made his manner to
Ada more odious. She stared at him in a
sort of bewilderment, but her fears of the
night before had passed away.

'' I have a plan, too," she said. " I am
going to stay in my room here, and not comedown
at all, till you and Mr. Warren are
gone away, and till Gerald comes to fetch
me. He will come. I shall write and
telegraph to all sorts of places, and if you
try to prevent me from doing what I choose,
I shall tell all the people here, and ask them
to help me."

'* A sensation for Locarno," said Clarence,

stroking his moustache. " I congratulate you.
It is a very clever plan indeed. So you won't
have Warren ? Gerald will be as much
obliged to you as I am."

'what do you mean?" said Ada.

I think the facts were alluded to last night
in the balcony, so I hardly need repeat them.
Warren has it in his power to ruin me and
Gerald, and if you refuse him, he means to
give himself that pleasure at once. I see
you are surprised, and you think me very
rough and plain-spoken ; but, my dear, you
must remember that you have brought this
on yourself. You have precipitated things
by hearing what you were not meant to hear.
You would have learnt It all in a much gentler
fashion if you had shut your window and had
gone to bed like a sensible young woman.
Who was to guess that you were star-gazing
at that hour ? "

Ada sat down, frowning, and covered her
face with her hands for a moment.

'you puzzle me so that I can hardly
think," she said, looking up. '' What do you
mean 1 Does Gerald know ? "

He does. We talked it over in the
autumn."

" He can't wish it," said Ada in a whisper.

" Well, no ; he has a prejudice against
Warren, as you know. But he quite understood
what the consequences of your refusal
would be, and talked about breaking stones."

Mr. Warren must be a dreadfully wicked,
cruel man," said Ada, after a long pause.

"Not at all," said Clarence; ''a man hasa
right to use his advantages. I got into
certain scrapes a few years ago. He helped
me out of them. I owe him a Q-ood deal of
money, and gratitude too. If I ask you to
pay my debt for me, you may perhaps remember

that I have always done what I
could for you. Of course, he is rather old
for you  but you will be thoroughly spoilt,
and will have everything that money can give
you."

Ada had hidden her face again.

Gerald won't mind breaking stones," she
said presently, in a smothered voice.

'* He will probably tell you he doesn't,
because he will want you to please yourself''
said Clarence quietly. 'rit will make rather
a serious difference to him, though  all his
prospects depend on you. If you consent,
Warren will take him into partnership ; I
have every reason to think so. Still, he has
his life before him, and he is not in Warren's
power as I am. Your refusal means total
ruin to me."

After this Ada was quite still for a
minute or two. Then she began to cry and

VOL. II. I

sob passionately, hiding her face on the
back of the chair. A few broken words
made their way now and then.

*' Oh, how miserable I am ! How cruel
you are! What shall I do? Oh, Gerald!
I want Gerald!"

Clarence sat and looked at her with
more anger than pity. Present he got up,
and said Impatiently :

I had no notion you were such a baby!"

Then he went out of the room and shut
the door. In the corridor, outside, he met
the femme-de-chambre, who looked at him
rather oddly, for Ada's sobs were quite loud
enough to be heard, and suggested that
mademoiselle was ill.

"Yes, she is ill; she is weak and
hysterical ; she has had no breakfast," said
Clarence. " Will you look after her, and I
will send up her breakfast at once ? "

*' Old, monsieur'' said the Frenchwoman
cheerfully.

Clarence thought it was best to let the
child alone, and he did not go to her door
again for some hours. He had hopes that her
generosity, her love for Gerald, and for himself
too, unworthy as he was, might lead her
to give in without further trouble. He did
not like scenes, though he bore them stoically
enough, and preferred fair means to foul, when
it was possible to come off so easily.

He went to Ada again early in the afternoon.
He knocked, and she came to the
door, but she would not unlock it or let
him in. Clarence took this quietly ; he thought
it better not to storm or insist.

"How are you now?' he said. 'shave
they taken good care of you ? "

'' I am quite well, thank you," said Ada.
Listen, I want to tell you something."

I 2

'* Let me come in, then ; I don't like
listening at the door."

No ; I have been thinking of all you
said this morning, and I will not see him or
speak to him, and I shall give you no answer
at all till I have seen Gerald."

Hang it, won't you ?" muttered Clarence,
but he said aloud : " That sounds reasonable.
In the meanwhile you had better put your
hat on, and I'll take you for a walk. Lookout
of the window ; the weather is splendid.
I'll take you up to that church on the hill ;
they say it is worth seeing. Don't be afraid ;
he is asleep in the smoking-room."

*' No, thank you," said Ada; *' I would
rather stay where I am."

** As you please," said Clarence. He could
not go on arguing in the passage, so he went
away and rejoined Mr. Warren. He had only
told him that Ada was tired and nervous, and

preferred staying in her room. He had no
doubt, he said, that she would come down to
dinner.

It was a lovely afternoon, the sun was
shining softly over the lake, and all the lights
and shadows and varied colours were deep and
Intense after the rain. The femme-de-chambre,
curious and good-natured, came in and brought
Ada a fat pink rose. In the morning, in
answer to her attempts at comfort, Ada had
told her that she was tired of travelling, and
wanted to go home to her younger brother,
who was left in England, but the elder brother
would not let her go.

Having presented the rose, Susanne remarked
that '' ces messieurs  were gone out fora
walk together.

This encouraged Ada to carry out a plan
she had thought of. Yesterday she had seen
maps of the lake country and North Italy

hanging on the wall in the reading-room, and
It seemed to her that by studying these she
might get an idea of where she was, and where
Gerald was likely to be, If by happy fate he
had left England after receiving her first letter.
Besides, with all her obstinacy, she was beginning
to be a little tired of this imprisonment.
So when Susanne was gone, she
brushed her curls, and darted out into the
passage, and down one of the broad staircases
on her way to the reading-room.

There was a little bustle going on In the
house, the daily bustle at this time when the
afternoon train from the St. Goddard and
Bellinzona had just come in. Susanne was
hurrying to the top of the stairs to meet a
flushed, tired maid, loaded with bags. Ada
had passed this woman a moment before
without looking at her, but the maid had
lifted her eyes and stared, and turned her

head to look after the slight young figure
hurrying down. There were one or two
parties of strangers in the hall, and large
piles of luggage; the manager was bowing,
himself politely from one to the other. One
lady had just walked into his office, and was
stooping over a book there ; an old lady
outside, very much wrapped up, was scolding
her maid who had lost something. There
was a good deal of talk and noise ; half-a-dozen
people who had to be attended to at
once. Ada slipped through and past it all,
along half the polished, shining length of the
dining-room, and through one of the tall
glass doors into the room beyond, with the
large table scattered with papers, and the
maps, and the carved bookcase against the
wall. There was no one in the room. Ada
went slowly from one map to another. She
had been standing a few minutes before

one that Interested her, a large-scale map of
the lakes, in which she saw plainly how she
had been brought back from Como here, when
a door opened and one of the strange ladies
came into the room. Ada did not look round
till she was suddenly conscious that this person
had followed her to the corner by the window
where she was standing. Then she started
violently, looked round, looked up, and
instantly there were two arms round her,
and her head was resting against somebody's
shoulder, and a warm face was laid against
hers, and Theoo said, with an odd little
catching in her breath :

'' My dear  my dear child, so I have
really found you ! "

OVERTAKEN.

Theoo was now perfectly happy. She had been
restless and impatient all through the seven
hours' journey from Lucerne, where her grandmother
had that morning received a note from
Gerald, written in the train, and posted on
his arrival at Como. Lady Redcliff's kindness
had encouraged him to write to her, and he
gave her his address both at Como and
Milan, where he thought it not unlikely that
his travellers might be gone. He ventured
to ask her to let him know if she and Miss
Meynell came across them anywhere on the

lakes. Lady Redcliff tossed the note to
Theoo, saying :

"That belongs to you. I think he is
rather a presuming fellow. Why should I
trouble myself about him or his concerns ? "

*' I thought you told him to write to you'*
said Theoo very quietly, looking down at the
note.

She had never seen his writing before,
except in the register of Helen's marriage.

What an ignorant fool, to think I meant
it ! " said Lady Redcliff.

All the wild beauty of that day's journey
was thrown away on Theoo, absorbed so deeply
in her own thoughts that her grandmother
spoke to her several times without being heard,
and at last, with an angry little laugh, rolled
up a handkerchief and threw it in her face.
Theoon Theoo woke with a start, flushing
crimson.

Yes, of course ! I hate people who are
in love," said Lady Redcliff. *' Their manners
are abominable. They are eaten up with
selfishness ; they ought to be shut up in a
madhouse as long as the fit lasts. Now,
little donkey ! look out of the window ; these
tunnels are rather curious."

They climbed slowly between the solemn
snow mountains, up the valley of the Russ,
green, foaming, rushing down. By the spiral
tunnels in the mountain-side they reached
Goeschenen, where it was snowing hard, and
Lady Redcliff shivered among her furs, and
wondered why she had left England. Then
came the twenty minutes in the tunnel, and
then the wonderful change from north to south,
from snow and cold to sunshine and summer.
Here the Ticino foams and splashes along its
bed half-choked with stones ; the green beauty,
the fir-groves of the Russ valley are left

behind, and on each hand rise great bare
mountain-walls, dry and bleached In the sunshine,
except where the constant waterfalls
come flying down, half blown away in mist
long before they reach the river.

Lady Redcliff had determined to stay
a night or two at Locarno, and to go on
by steamer to Baveno, where she meant
to spend the next week or two. While
she was talking about rooms to the manager
of the hotel, Theoo had asked if she might
look at his Visitors' Book, and there, among
the arrivals of the day before, she had seen
"Miss A. Fane, C. Litton, W. Warren,
England." She followed her grandmother
upstairs, smiling to herself. The discovery
filled her with a peaceful satisfaction. The
one thought in her mind was, " How glad he
will be!"

But she was not the first, after all, with

her discovery, for Combe met her in the
gallery. She had half recognised Miss Fane
as she passed her on the stairs, and a word
to Susanne had made all clear. That poor
young lady was travelling with her brother
and another gentleman, and the brother was
not very kind to her, and she had spent all
the morning crying in her room.

Theoo did not wait to take her hat off, or
to speak to her grandmother, but went downstairs
at once in search of Ada.

A very few minutes of talk was enough to
make the frightened child as happy as her
friend. Gerald had followed her ; Miss
Meynell had seen him ; she had his address,
and he would be here very soon ; she would
take care of Ada till he came.

But I never thought of your being
abroad, too," said Ada, still resting her tired
head against the arm that pressed her close.

and looking up with a sort of adoration into
the sweet face that bent over her. '' I wrote
to you two days ago in London."

Did you ? I am so glad," said Theoo
in a low voice.

Ada did not quite understand her, or the
expression of her eyes, which seemed to have
a light of triumph in them ; but just then
she could hardly realise anything but her
own safety.

The poor, worried little brain might rest
in peace now ; no more plans of escape
need be made. Ada's faith in Theoo was
so perfect that the possibility of Clarence's
still carrying her off did not enter her mind
at all.

'' Come along," said Theoo presently.
We will telegraph to Como and Milan,
and then you shall come with me to my
room."

Sitting in Theoo's window opposite the
mountains, already beginning to glow with
sunset beauty ; talking, laughing, asking
questions about Gerald ; now and then in a
small silent rapture watching Theoo as she
wandered about the room, or following with
satisfied eyes the slow, solid movements of
Combe in her unpacking  the very image
of English safety and respectability  Ada
was perfectly happy.

Theoo herself had a little relapsed into
dreaminess. She had, of course, told her
grandmother what had happened, and Lady
Redcliff had said very crossly :

'' Very well ; you are a great fool. But I
suppose the gods have set their hearts on
ruining you, so there's nothing more to be
said. I don't mean to take charge of anymore
girls, I can assure you."

After this she turned on Sparrow, who

was doing something wrong as usual, and
Theoo went away to her new possession. But
presently, as Ada sat there in the window,
the door between the two rooms was flung
open, startling her so much that she sprang
to her feet, and Lady Redcliff walked in.

You seem nervous," she said, nodding at
Ada.

** Miss Fane, grand mamma," said Theoo.

'' Thank you ; we don't want an introduction,"
said Lady Redcliff. '' I know your
brother ; he was good-natured, and dragged
me about on the journey. He has a special
devotion to old women, hasn't he ? "

'' I don't know," said Ada, very much
alarmed, for Lady Redcliffs sharp black eyes
were looking her through.

'don't you?" said the old lady. 'well,
you are not the least like him. He is a nice
brown, like all the Fanes. I suppose you get

your colouring from the other side. It's very
pretty and picturesque in itself, but I don't
like it."

Ada stared in still greater astonishment.

'' Don't frighten her," said Theoo, smiling.

'* I am not frightening her," said Lady
Redcliff. '' I knew the Fanes before you
were born. But as you choose to mix yourself
up with her family affairs, I must know
what is going on. Why have you quarrelled
with your elder brother, may I ask. Miss
Fane 1 He is much older than the other,
isn't he ? and much more fit to take care of
you ? "

'' No, he is not fit at all," said Ada,
colouring scarlet.

*why do you ask questions when you
know ? " said Theoo in a low voice.

'' I only know what you have told me.
Is it all true that she has told me about this

VOL. n. K 

persecution ? " said Lady Redcliff, much more
gently, to Ada.

Combe, at a sign from her mistress, went
out of the room.

** Oh yes, it is all true," said Ada, with an
appealing look at Theoo.

'' But don't you see," said Lady Radcliffe
that if I take possession of you now  tonight
 and keep you under my care till your
brother comes, as this creature tells me I
ought, I shall be doing what I have no right
in the world to do ? I shall have a scrimmage
with your elder brother, and the right will
be on his side, do you observe. Suppose he
wants to carry you off by the first boat tomorrow
morning, am I expected to hinder him,
pray :

Ada still looked at Theoo, who smiled
quietly and said :

" I don t know whether you or I will

keep her, grand mamma, but she certainly shall
not go."

Please yourself, as you generally do, but
you will make a fine scandal," said Lady
Redcliff; and she vanished through the door
as quickly as she had appeared.

Clarence Litton came in from his walk,
changed his coat for dinner, and went to
his sister's door. As he stood there and
knocked, Susanne passed, shaking her head
and smiling :

'' Mademoiselle is not there."

Where is she, then '.'' said Clarence very
sharply, with a sudden fear that the child might
have run away.

'' Not far off," said Susanne. " With the
demoiselle who arrived this afternoon. Monsieur
need not derange himself. She is quite
well now ; she is going down to dinner."

'what lady arrived this afternoons" said

K 2

Clarence, with a stern look  the woman might
be telling lies  Ada might somehow have
bribed her  he thought her manner was odd
and mischievous.

*' An English party," said Susanne, shrugging
her shoulders. " An old lady, a young
lady, and three servants. Acquaintances of
mademoiselle, and no doubt of monsieur, too,
but I cannot tell their names."

Clarence hesitated a moment, then ran
downstairs, went to the office, and found what
he wanted to know.

He was very much disturbed. Miss
Meynell's arrival, Ada's fondness for her, of
which he was aware, seemed likely to spoil
all his plans. Her sudden appearance was
quite as bad as Gerald's, If not worse. He was
afraid of her very name ; it was only too
likely that she knew of that blackest passage
in his life  and yet, then, would she still be

kind to Ada ? Possibly Captain North had
not told her: again, Captain North himself
might be abroad, might join his cousin at
any moment. For every reason, Locarno
was not a place to stay in. They must be off
the next morning somewhere, no matter where,
taking Ada with them. Clarence wished for
the hundredth time that he had never brought
her away from England.

Mr. Warren laughed when Clarence went
to him and told him of this new complication.
He rather enjoyed his friend's confusion, and
professed himself glad that Miss Ada had
found somebody to speak to.

Lady Redcliff and her granddaughter
came down to dinner, bringing Ada with them,
but she left them at the dining-room door and
joined her brother, taking her place as usual
between him and Mr. Warren. Theoo, as she-followed
her grandmother up the other side

of the table, looked at Clarence Litton and
made him a slight bow, which he returned
gravely. She and Ada were too far apart
to speak to each other at dinner, but her eyes
were often turned that way ; they were full
of anger and sympathy as she caught a word
now and then of Mr. Warren's jokes, and
saw the colour rise in Ada's cheeks at some
of his rude, familiar ways and speeches.
Clarence Litton bent over his plate with a
gloomy face, drank a great deal, and hardly
spoke a word ; but his friend seemed to be
in the highest spirits, specially and unbearably
agreeable. Many eyes besides Theoo's were
turned on Ada with pity and curiosity as his
noisy voice went on. Lady Redcliff, among
others, often glanced that way with an odd
little cat-like grin. Before any one else had
finished, she got up, and went away to the
reading-room on her granddaughter's arm.

'' Won't the people bore you ? Wouldn't
you rather go upstairs ? " said Theoo.

No ; I have a little business to do first
a little game to spoil," said Lady Redcliff.
That is an animal indeed."

*' I told you he was quite out of the
question," said Theoo.

"The other looks presentable, but he hasa
bad face, and he is dreadfully afraid of
us ; he knows very well that we are the
avengers," said Lady Radcliffe

Are you going to speak to him ? What
shall you say ? "

Leave that to me. Yes, I must have
some talk with Mr. Litton, but don't let the
other beast come near me," said Lady
Redcliff cheerfully.

Theoo looked at her and smiled.

'you will take charge of Ada, then,
grand mamma } "

*' Nothing of the kind. I should be a
kidnapper myself. I shall try to make them
stay here till the brother comes, as you were
officious enough to telegraph for him. After
that I shall have nothing more to do with
any of them, nor will you. They are nota
respectable set of people."

Theoo gave her a curious glance, and then
said with a little sigh :

'' Here they are ! "

The three came in from the dining-room
together. Mr. Warren, who had a little
fear of Theoo, and thought her grandmother,
as he elegantly remarked to Ada, " an awful
old hag," went to the other side of the room
with a newspaper. Ada crept round to the
back of Theoo's chair ; Clarence, who did not
wish to behave like the coward he felt,
walked up to the table, and began turning
over the leaves of a book.

"Miss Fane," said Lady Redcliff, '* I
should like to know your brother. Will he
come and talk to me ? "

Clarence thus found himself suddenly
seized upon. He glanced at Theoo, but she
was not looking at him. A minute later,
the people who were coming into the room
saw nothing remarkable in the group by the
fire : an old lady in an arm-chair ; a tall
well-dressed man standing up and talking
to her, apparently on easy and pleasant
terms ; a young woman, beautiful and silent,
sitting a little in the background, sometimes
smiling faintly at some touch or word from a
fair, pretty girl leaning on the back of her
chair. Theoo was listening with a kind of
spell-bound interest to her grandmother's talk
with Clarence Litton. Lady Redcliff could
be charming when she chose ; she was
charming now. The sharp edges of her

talk flashed at first without cutting ; she
chattered to Clarence in such a light-hearted
pleasant way that he was almost thrown off
his guard, and did not recognise one of the
Fates in that little dark old woman. But
presently he began to listen more gravely,
and to remember his position, for Lady
Redcliff was telling him of their meeting
with his brother Gerald, who was anxious
to overtake and join him. This news made
it hard for Clarence to keep up his agreeable
indifference.

Really ! You surprise me ; I had no
idea Gerald was abroad," he said calmly
enough. *' And where did you meet him ? "

"At Dover, and he travelled with us to
Basle, where we were sorry to part," said
Lady Redcliff. "He ran after you in a great
hurry, but he must have missed you, I suppose.
There is a likeness between you  more than

I should have expected, for he is very like
the Fanes, and of course you have nothing
to do with them. I used to know some of
them very well."

''Ah!" said Clarence thoughtfully, after
she had gone on for a minute or two. " I
wonder where Gerald may be now ? "

*' He will be here tomorrow," said Lady
Redcliff; 'eat least, I think so, for he seems
to be a devoted sort of brother. He asked
me to let him know if I came across you anywhere,
so I telegraphed to Como and Milan
this afternoon."

Indeed ! That was very kind of you,"
said Clarence.

"You were out, and couldn't be consulted,"
said Lady Redcliff, "and I thought poor Mr.
Fane might go chasing on as far as Florence
or Rome. Yes, I felt sure you would all be
obliged to me. Your sister quite thought so."

''Oh, certainly," said Clarence. He could
not trust himself to look up, so he gazed at
the hearth rug, and slowly stroked and pulled
his moustache. " He will miss us again,
unfortunately," he said. "My friend and I
have decided to go on tomorrow morning."

The next moment he called himself a fool
for saying this, but it was too late.

'indeed! Where?" said Lady Radcliffe

don't know. We have not decided.
But my sister and I are travelling with him,
you see  and I don't suppose my brother's
coming is certain enough  your kind telegrams
might not reach him, after all, and we might
be delayed for nothing. We business people
have not much time to spare."

"Really! haven't you?" said Lady Red-cliff.
"Well, I can't exactly propose that
we should become one party, for an old
woman like me would be a drag upon you,

and there are other reasons. But I find your
sister does not much care to go on into
Italy with you. Suppose you and your
friend go off tomorrow morning, leaving her
with me till your brother joins us ? Now
consider  you will be much more independent
without a girl on your hands."

Lady Redcliff flashed a glance round at
Theoo and Ada, one of whom looked absent
and unconscious, while the other was blushing,
and trying as well as she could to hide
her anxiety and agitation.

** It is very good of you, Lady Redcliff,"
said Clarence, after a pause, " to interest
yourself in our concerns, but I am sure my
sister would be in your way."

*' I will punish you for this little plot,
Miss Ada," he thought to himself 'you
think you are quite safe, and that I can't
refuse, but you will find yourself mistaken."

We are a party of women already,"
said Lady Redcliff, not at all choosing to
understand his tone. " So that is settled,
is it ? Don't thank me ; I am glad to be
of use."

'you will let me thank you for your
kind intention," said Clarence coolly. '' I
do not wish to leave my sister behind, as
she knows. It is natural that she should
wish to stay with people who are good
enough to take an interest in her ; but,
thank you, it is impossible."

'soh!" said Lady Redcliff very expressively.
" Very well. She must be ready to
start tomorrow morning. Is that it?"

Clarence bowed. Then, as Lady Redcliff
said no more, he thought the conversation
might as well end. He looked across at
Ada, who was startled by the angry glance
he gave her, but at the same moment he

met Theoo's eyes, full of such scorn that he
dropped his own, and walked away rather
more quickly than he had intended. Presently
he and Warren went out into the
loggia together.

Lady Redcliff remained for a few minutes
staring quietly into the fire. Then she
turned round, and said in a low voice to
Theoo :

'' Go ' upstairs now. Take Miss Fane
with you, and don't come down again.
Send Sparrow to me* in half-an-hour."

It was quite an hour later, and every one
else had left the reading-room, when Clarence
and Mr. Warren came in again, and found
the little old lady sitting alone by the
fire.

She had sent Sparrow away, and was
waiting for them there, but they did not
know that.

Is it a fine night, Mr. Litton ? " she
said, without looking up.

Clarence assured her that it was beautiful.


'' Miss Fane ouQht to have been out,
enjoying it too," Warren said to him.
Excuse me, Lady Redcliff, but I hear
you wish to deprive our tour of its greatest

attraction."

Lady Redcliff lifted her eyes then. They
were very bright and cold, and she looked
at Warren from head to foot with a sort of
diamond hardness. She did not mean to
waste her words on a creature of his level,
still less, as he had presumed to speak to
her. A look was quite enough for him.

'' Can I speak to you alone, Mr. Litton ? "
she said.

'* Are you going to the smoking-room ?
I'll follow you directly," said Clarence to

his friend, who grunted, and went out of
the room.

' Now, you have put me in a disagreeable
position," said Lady RedcHff to Clarence,
as he came near to her, and stood in his
former place, looking down on the hearth-rug.
He could not restrain a slight smile.
"Well, do you know, I might almost
say the same," he murmured.

'every true. Fm glad you feel it," said
Lady Redcliff. '' We understand each other
then. You might as well have given in
quietly before, because you must have seen
that I meant to have my own way."

I really could not " began Clarence.

So you said ; but my dear Mr. Litton,
the fact' of the matter is this : I do not
mean your little sister to marry that man.
She is a pretty child ; she hates him ; he is
much too old for her, and a horrid, vulgar

VOL. II.

person besides. You know all that. You
are mixed up with him in business  too
much for your own good. You say that
her refusal will ruin you. That sounds like
a pitiful case ; but, even if it is true, it is
no reason for sacrificing her."

It is true, I assure you," said Clarence.

'' Then you ought to be ashamed of
yourself. Now you are wondering what
business this is of mine. Well, I might
have been her great-aunt. You don't understand
me, and that is nothing to the
purpose. But I think you will see daylight
if I mention that I am slightly connected
with the North family."

Clarence could not exactly blush, but
he changed colour in a curious way, and
muttered after a moment :

'* I knew that Miss Meynell was related
to them."

'every closely indeed; but don't bring
her name in, please. That affair of yours
was hushed up at the time ; but I happen
to know all about it, and I suppose, if
I chose to use my information, I might
do you a little mischief still, though it is so
long ago."

Clarence bent his head.

"And why do you remind me of it now,
Lady Radcliffe

Because I want to prevent you from
carrying your sister off tomorrow morning."

I see. But if you know  I wonder
that you choose to have anything to do with
my sister."

'her name is not the same as yours,"
said Lady Redcliff. " There is a black
sheep in most families, after all ; but he
doesn't generally pose as the head of the
family, and arrange marriages for his sisters.

L 2

Now, will you do as I ask you ? Will you
leave Miss Fane with me till her own brother
comes to take charge of her ? "

'you are asking me to ruin myself and
him too," said Clarence.

'come, I dare say you are useful to that
friend of yours, and he won't be as bad as
his word," said Lady Redcliff good-naturedly.
I am a much more dangerous enemy. When
I set about ruining a man, I do it thoroughly.
And as for your brother, I don't care if he
does lose that work of his. He is made for
better things than grubbing in a coal-mine.
However, here's my maid," as Sparrow timidly
opened the door. " You will let me carry out
my little plan, Mr. Litton ? "

"As you are so kind," said Clarence.

That's settled. Good-night," said Lady
Radcliffe

gave him a friendly nod, and went

out of the room, leaving him in a state of
bewildered defeat.

*' Dear me, I do love a rogue ! " she said
in a clear, loud voice, as the startled Sparrow-helped
her upstairs.

THE MADONNA DEL Tasso.

Late In the afternoon of the next day,
Gerald Fane was walking away from the
Grand Hotel up the hill behind the town.
He had arrived by the boat not an hour
before, and the first person he met on landing
was Mr. Warren, who was himself going
on board, and who looked sulky and savage
to the last degree.

There was no time for any talk with
Warren, but he met Gerald with something
between a rude laugh and a snarl.

"Here you are," he said, "coming to

look after your sister  and somebody else
too, I suspect. Well, I wish her joy, and
you too."

'' What do you mean, Mr. Warren ? " said
Gerald angrily.

"Ah, you are a fine fellow," said Warren.
'* Everything your own way now. Your
brother is up there at the hotel, looking
out for you. He will tell you what nice
little arrangements we have made  all for
your comfort."

'* Look here, Mr. Warren," said Gerald,
I shall have nothing more to do with you."

No, that you certainly won't," said
Warren, and he left him, and pushed his
way on board.

At the hotel Gerald went to his brothers
room, and found him packing his things ina
great hurry. Clarence was at first inclined
to jeer, like Warren, but Gerald's real hearty

anger and disgust presently made him serious.
He told him that he was going off to England
at once, that Warren was furious with
him, as well as with Gerald, but that he
meant to make up the quarrel if he could.
As for Gerald, he must look for no more
help from either of them ; he must find
work for himself now, for Warren could not
bear to hear his name. As for Ada, she
had made her choice, and she must abide
by it ; from this day she belonged to Gerald,
and they must struggle on as they could
together. Clarence used a great many hard
words in telling Gerald what he thought of
him. Gerald defended himself indignantly,
and the brothers parted at last in great
anger. Clarence hurried away to his train,
and Gerald, finding that Ada was not in
the house, went out for a walk to cool himself
and think things over.

His position was not at all a pleasant one.
Here he was at five-and-twenty, thrown out
of the work which had given him enough
to live on for the last few years. Of course
he had saved nothing ; and out of that poor
pay he had lost money every year, more or
less, In bets and speculations under Clarence's
encouragement. Yet it seemed to him that
he had been leading a stern, hard life, denying
himself all the amusements that a young fellow
of his age might expect. What was the use ?
He was as poor now as when he left the
army, after those two years in which horses,
and generosity, and extravagance of every
kind had run away with all his money. And
now there was Ada to be provided for, as
well as himself He had considered that
question in the autumn, when Clarence had
proposed that odious plan. Then things had
quieted down ; a respite of a few months had

been given him. Now the question lay before
him again, and must be answered.

And there was another complication ; or
rather there was the new atmosphere, in which
he had consciously lived for a few months
now. He was very deeply in love with Theoo
Meynell ; and since their journey together,
since that parting at Basle with the noise of
the Rhine in their ears, when he had dared
to show her what he felt, this love would
not listen to reason any more. Of course it
was madness for him to think of marrying
at all ; it was the very madness of ambition
for him, in his hopeless poverty and want of
everything, to dream of asking a woman like
her to marry him. How could he do it ? It
was impossible ; and yet it might be equally
impossible not to do it, for the Fanes were
by no means a patient race. Lady Redclift'
could have told him that her Charles Fane

had not scrupled to make violent love to hera
dark, sparkling fairy of a girl, when he was
almost as poor as Gerald was now. But she
had a father to take care of her, and to treat
the affair as the absurdity it was ; so Charles
Fane went off to die in Africa, as the best
thing he could do, and his love, a few years
later, made no objection to being married to
Lord Redcliff.

This old story was of course nothing to
Gerald. As he turned from the road into
a steep, stony lane that led up into the
hills, and gave a few centering to a blind
beggar who was sitting under a picture of
Our Lady on the wall, he was trying, without
any success, to be sorry for that sudden
foolishness at Basle. He did not think she
was angry with him ; he had a suspicion,
which made the thought of her both more
sad and more sweet, that as she was certainly

his first love, so he perhaps was hers ; that
no one had ever before brought the light
into her eyes that he had seen there, when
sometimes, after a moment, she used to look
away from him. But all that did not alter
the fact that the thing was hopeless, the
thing was impossible ; he had been very
wrong and very foolish that evening at
Basle. Yet he could not be sorry that he
had kissed her hands once, if he was never
to be so near her again.

He climbed slowly up the steep, pebbly
road, these thoughts bringing after them
the reflection that he had better end his
troubles by throwing himself into the lake.
In the white walls of the lane a door stood
open here and there into green gardens,
with trellises and flowering bushes ; then
came a sheltering pergola of vines just
coming into fresh green leaf. Further on

the path, shaded by trees, runs along the
upper edge of a ravine full of tumbled
stones, the bed of a mountain stream, which
at this time of year trickles along very
gently, making a pool here and there, where
the washerwomen are busy, with coloured
handkerchiefs tied over their heads. Higher
up the ravine is full of bright, budding trees ;
the path, on its way to an old convent
perched among the rocks, passes under a
deep archway with a Latin inscription, and
then goes on In shade, the ravine low down
on the right, and on the left a rocky wall
rising high, covered with bushes, and moss,
and ferns. Here and there, in this way to
the sanctuary, are broad flights of steps to
make the ascent easier ; here and there is a
grated chapel, with groups of life-sized
figures in painted terra-cotta  scenes from
the Gospels, the Nativity, the Last Supper,

very grotesque and yet solemn in the half
darkness of the caverns where they were
arranged so long ago. Looking back from
the path,' through a frame of delicate green
and brown branches crossing, the lake lies
calm and blue and brilliant in the afternoon
sunshine, and up beyond, their white faintly
streaked with grey, the mountains stand
against the deep, quiet sky.

Gerald walked up through all this, and
presently more steps brought him to the
old yellow buildings of the convent. A low,
dark arch bore the inscription, '' Strata ai
Month ; " but he thought he would see the
end of this ascent first, so he went on up
more flights of steps, with strange sacred
emblems and pictures here and there, till
he came into the square-paved loggia of the
convent, with the monks' house on one side,
looking ruinous and old, and high arches

forming a sort of cloister before the church
door. It was all open to the sun and air,
brown and yellow with years of sun. Little
lizards, the only living things Gerald had
seen since the washerwomen, ran in and out
among the old crumbling stones. To the
right, over a low wall, one could look straight
down the rock into the valley, over the red
roofs of Locarno to the lake, with purple
shadows crossing it. A very steep path,
with white glaring stations, led up from the
town to the convent on this side. The way
by which Gerald had come was too pleasant
and easily winding for the pilgrims who
really came to pay their devotion at the
shrine of Our Lady of the Rock.

There was a strange charm about the
convent, high and lonely and still, with such
calm spring beauty in earth and air all round
it. It seemed to be deserted by everything

except the lizards; but presently a nightingale
began to sing, and Gerald looked over
the wall and saw that there was a garden
down below, with arches of budding vines,
and two old brown monks working in it
silently. Just under the wall the garden was
full of pink stocks. As Gerald stood there,
leaning his elbows on the sun-baked stones,
tired and anxious, with a half-envying thought
of the contrast between those monks and himself,
he became aware that there was somebody
in the narrow open gallery which ran
along by the south wall of the church, a sort
of passage from the court where he was
standing. Somebody was there, leaning on
the wall like himself, looking at the stocks
and listening to the nightingale. Her head
was turned away from him, but they became
conscious almost at the same moment of each
other's presence. Directly afterwards she had

looked round, and he had joined her in the
little gallery.

Theoo's struggles with herself had not been
much less than his, and the consequence of
them was that she received him very quietly
coldly, Gerald thought. He feared now
that he had offended her hopelessly at Basle,
and became very miserable.

'* I brought my sketch-book," Theoo said,
after the first rather constrained greeting.
** But all this Is too lovely to be
sketched."

It Is a nice old places said Gerald,
looking vaguely round at the walls. Then
he was silent for a minute ; she did not
speak : It was the strangest meeting. *' I
think Ada Is out walking somewhere," he
said presently. " Thank you so much for
the telegram."

'you got It?" said Theoo absently.

VOL. II. M

'' Ada ? Oh yes, she Is gone with my
maid a little further up the hill. I liked
this so much, I said I would wait for
them here. You have not seen Ada yet,
then ? ''

'' No," said Gerald. After another pause
he added, " I saw those two fellows ; they
are both off, one to Italy and the other
to England. So, thanks to you and Lady
Redcllff, there is an end of that trouble."

'' Ah, yes, that Is very nice. I'm so
glad," said Theoo.

In all Gerald's acquaintance with her he
had never seen her so absent, so dreamy,
so evidently unconscious of what she was
saying. She would not look at him ; she
had not looked at him yet ; she kept her
head a little turned away ; her eyes were
following one or two boats with white awnings,
slowly crossing the blue of the lake.

Gerald, looking at her, began to feel desperate.
If she meant to show him that
he must always remain where he was now,
that his conduct at Basle could not be
forgiven, and must never be alluded to
again  why, she little knew what sort of
feeling she had to deal with, if she thought
it could be checked in such a way as this.
She ought to have been cold all along, if
she meant to be cold now. Was she quite
heartless ? So thought this wildly unreasonable
young man.

*' You like this, don't you ? " he said presently
in a low voice. " Couldn't you stand
here for ever ? "

"Yes, I think I could," Theoo answered.
"It is so peaceful, so unlike all that life
down below."

"It would drive me mad very soon,"
said Gerald. She took no notice of this

M 2

discordant speech, and he went on, after
another of those painful, thrilling silences :
** I suppose Ada will be ready to start tomorrow
morning. I have nothing to go
Track to, but I can't stay here, and I must
look out for some kind of work. I've got a
notion of going to Africa, to the Diamond
Fields, and trying my luck there  only I

don't know what to do with her but I

am boring you."

'' Oh, no ; tell me," said Theoo.

*' I'm turned off' said Gerald, trying to
speak lightly, 'rand I've got no money and
no interest, and getting work is a serious
thing in these days."

'' Did not you expect that something of
this kind would happen . " said Theoo, still
with her far-away gaze.

*' Of course I did ; and it is not that
which makes me miserable. I have expected

it ever since last autumn ; and now, may I
confess something to you before I go away,,
and never see you again ? "

She consented by a Httle movement of
her head, but no words came.

You won't understand it, because you
don't know what temptation is," said Gerald.
I've reminded you before of that evening
when you were riding with Mr. Goodall, and
I met you at the gate. I had had a talk
with my brother that day, and I felt I must
get some money somehow and take Ada
away. There were some valuable bonds in
the iron safe at the office, belonging to the.
company "

He moved a little away from her, and
stood leaning on the wall, hiding his face in
his hands, wondering, the moment after he
had spoken, what fiend of self-destruction had
made him speak. Of course it was all over

now ; and as there was no happiness to be
had anyhow, he might as well have left her
with a fairly good opinion of him.

Theoo turned towards him, looked at him,
and the shadow of a smile came into her
face, and her eyes shone as she said, in a
low voice :

** But you did not "

*you stopped me," he said.

Though he did not look up, the sweetness
of her voice encouraged him to go on.
She was thoughtful and sad, but there was
a strange happiness in her face ; she stood
and looked down at him as he talked to the
pink stocks and the nightingale. The lizards
darted about on the warm wall, undisturbed
by these quiet presences.

*' I must go away and never see you
again," Gerald repeated. '' I dare not see
you again ; it's beyond bearing. I'm afraid

you are angry with me for losing my senses
at Basle  but It is very hard. You can't
have any notion what It Is. I'm not going
to ask you to say a word to me, now or
ever, but there can't be much harm In telling
you what you know already."

He stood upright, with a quick look Into
her face. She was very pale, with drooped
eyelids, and he thought she looked colder
than ever.

'' You don't care for me," he said, " and
I suppose you never could, even If I were
rich, and dared ask you. But I'm glad you
know that I love you a thousand times better
than life, and always shall. Now let me kiss
your hand again," he added more quietly,
and I will never trouble you any more.
I have been wrong, perhaps, but you must
remember that I am most awfully unhappy."

Something In her calmness had a calming

effect on him. It seemed as if the cold
shadow of the inevitable, to which they must
resign themselves, had fallen over them both.
He kissed her hand gently and walked away.
For a moment Theoo gazed again across the
lake, then she looked after him ; he was just
passing into the sunlit court outside. Suddenly,
flushing crimson, she made a few quick steps
towards the archway, with both hands stretched
out.

*' Come back ! " she said, just above her
breath, but so low that it seemed hardly
possible that he could hear.

He did hear, however, and he turned
round, and was by her side again in a
moment.

*' Do you mean it ? " he asked her. '' Do
you really  do you know what you are
saying ? "

The archway threw a friendly little shadow,

and the nightingale sang louder than ever in
the garden, and the old monks moved slowly
about among their vines without a suspicion
of the strange, almost sacrilegious thing which
had happened in their own loggia above.
Nobody was there but the lizards, and they
waved their tails in great astonishment.

INFATUATION.

Theoo and Gerald agreed that neither Ada
nor Lady Redcliff should hear this wonderful
news till the next day, after they had parted.
At first Gerald declared that he could not
go, and Theoo thought she could not let him
go ; but by degrees she became quite sure
that it was best for him to carry out his
plan. He must take Ada back to England,
break off his connection with Deerhurst, and
move into London lodgings for the present.
If he stayed at Locarno another day, it would
be impossible to keep the secret, and Theoo

felt that she would rather tell her grandmother
after he was gone. There was no
knowing what Lady Redcliff might say ordo
; she was sure at least to use plenty of
hard words. Theoo could not bear the
thought of her attacking Gerald to his face ;
she did not doubt her own power of defending
him when he was away.

As for the future, with its troubles of all
kinds, which had weighed so heavily on
Gerald as he walked up to the convent, he
cared no more for it now. Circumstances
might do their worst, now that the impossible
had happened. Theoo, in giving him herself,
had given him the whole world ; never
was a young man more wildly and romantically
in love.

They had a long talk together in that
shady corner of the loggia; but presently
two or three people, tourists like themselves,

came strolling up ; a brown monk with his
cowl pulled forward glided across the pavement
Into the church ; all the bells of Locarno
broke out at once with their clashing jingle.
Theoo remembered that Ada and Combe
would be coming back, and sent Gerald
down to the hotel.

They kept their own counsel wonderfully-well
that evening ; nothing but their avoiding
of each other could have made any one
suspect the truth. Theoo was very silent,
and Gerald In the highest spirits. He
puzzled Ada a little ; she would almost have
thought him unfeeling, if she had seen any
fault in him at all, for he did not seem inclined
to listen much to her terrors and
adventures. Lady Redcllff, too, was slightly
surprised at the change in his tone ; he told
her very cheerfully that he was going to
begin life over again.

Theoo next morning Theoo did not trouble
herself about much concealment. She got
up early, and went out for a walk alone ; she
was out an hour or more, and about half-past
eight Mr. Fane came in with her ; this fact
was witnessed by Combe, who happened to
be in the hall at the moment.

After breakfast, before she saw her grandmother,
Theoo went to the station with Gerald
and Ada, taking Combe this time.

'shall I see you again in England?" said
Ada at the last.

" Yes, you will," Theoo answered positively,

She kissed the child, and gave her hand
to Gerald ; they parted very quietly.

She was in no hurry to go back to the
hotel, but took Combe away into the town.
It was market-day, when Locarno is most
characteristic. The low, dark arcades with
their rows of shops were crowded ; all the

piazza was thronged with country-people and
animals ; men with thin, fine, agreeable faces ;
dark-eyed women and girls, some with bright
handkerchiefs on their heads, those of a richer
sort with black lace scarves and long gold earrings.
The people sat and stood about among
their lambs, and calves, and pigs  funny
black pigs with long ears. The stalls were
heaped with beads, and tools, and cow-bells,
and sabots, and coloured stuffs, and cutlery,
and flowers ; here and there on the ground
a woman sat beside a heap of gay handkerchiefs
; red umbrellas were also displayed
in all directions ; a wandering pedlar was
selling what he called silver rings for a few
pence each ; now and then a long, low cart
drawn by mild-looking oxen, came pressing
slowly through the crowd ; then came countrywomen
with great baskets on their backs,
smiling and nodding to each other. The

sun shone, and the bells clanged out now
and then. Theoo stayed there for a longtime
; she liked the people with their sweet
faces and pretty manners, and she amused
herself and Combe by buying a good deal
of rubbish. When they went back to the
hotel, she took her purchases to her grandmother's
room, but Lady Redcliff was snappish
and would not look at them.

"You ought to be an heiress," she said,
'' to throw money away like that. One of
these days you will be glad of those shillings
back again. What are you looking so happy
about ? " she said, with a quick glance at
Theoo. " I expected you to be dismal, now
that those dear people are gone. Perhaps
you agree with me that they were rather a
bore, after all."

''No," said Theoo.

'the young man seemed perfectly happy

last night," said Lady Redcliff. '' I dare say
he will fight along all right  much better than
if you had persisted in throwing yourself at
his head."

'* I am engaged to Mr. Fane," said Theoo.

'' Oh, are you ? " said her grandmother.
Pray let me congratulate you ; your prospects
are magnificent."

After this neither of them spoke for two
or three minutes. Theoo stood looking out
of the window ; her cheeks were flushed,
and she held her head very erect. Lady
Redcliff sat crouched in her chair, making
faces.

" Theoo," she said at last, in a deep, angry
voice, for she was in earnest now, " you
don't really mean that you are such a terrible
fool ? "

'' I am not a fool," said Theoo.

'' You are  a dozen fools. And a disobedient,

ungrateful, deceitful young woman.

As for the man How long has this been

going on, may I ask ? I know you have been
idiotic about him for months ; but I own I
am surprised at his having the impudence to
say anything to you. Do you actually mean
that that good-for-nothing pauper has asked
you to marry him ? "

Lady Redcliff ended with a shiver of rage,
as Theoo, with brilliant eyes and cheeks, turned
proudly to answer her.

*why are you surprised?" she said.
'' Why shouldn't he '. Do I care whether he
has ten pounds a year or ten thousand ? "

'' You will care when you have ten children,
fool, and when he is tired of you," snarled
Lady Radcliffe

have not been deceitful," Theoo went
on, this piece] of sound good sense being
seemingly lost upon her. " You have known,

VOL. II. N

grand mamma, almost all that I knew myself.
You liked him, you made friends with him
on the journey, and it was only yesterday he
found me up there at the convent, quite by
accident "

'' The convent ! what an appropriate scene !
Oh, accident ! don't try to humbug me. Ah,
and you went out and came in so innocently
with Combe and the girl. Combe has been
your confidante, I suppose. She shall go back
to England this minute."

"Theoon I shall go too," said Theoo.

*why on earth didn't you go this morning?
Why didn't you leave the girl with me, and
go off yourself with Mr. Gerald ? I hate half-and-half
people like you, who think themselves
good because they keep just inside the proprieties.
Don't I know you. Miss Theoo ?
You need not look as if you would like to
kill me."

Then came a little pause, for Lady Redcliff
was out of breath with indignation.

'haven't I warned you?" she went on.
Didn't I tell you that it would not do,
and that I could not have it ? I don't deny
that I liked the man ; he is rather taking.
I can fancy a girl being in love with him.
I was in love with his uncle ten times more
than you are with him, and he was ten times
more worth it. Who are you, I should like
to know, that you should have your own way
when I had to give up mine ? "

Theoo was silent, and looked out of the
window again.

'what do you mean to live on, prays"
asked her grandmother.

"There is my money, and he will fid
something to do," she answered in a low
voice.

"A fine prospect ! " sneered Lady Radcliffe

2

Look here now, Theoo. You think I shall
give in, but I shall not. You flatter yourself
that I am fond of you. I am not fond
enough of you, my dear, to let you ruin
yourself. It is impossible for you to marry
the brother of a swindler  who has swindled
your own family, remember. And you might
have some feeling for the Meynells, though
they haven't much for you. How will they
like your marrying a man who will have to
sweep a crossing one of these days in rags,
and will touch his hat to them for a
penny ? "

My doings don't matter to them," said
Theoo ; " and as for the other reason  if
Uncle Henry knew, he would not want him
and me to suffer for his brother's sins."

'' You are perfectly unnatural," said Lady
Redcliff. *you have no feeling left in you
but an infatuation for this pauper, simply

because he has handsome eyes, and looks
at you. All women are alike. I suspect
you made more love to him than he did to
you."

Infatuated ! Theoo remembered Hugh's
words, and for a moment she felt terribly
lonely and sad. An infatuation was evidently
a thing which separated one from all one's
old friends. The next moment, thinking of
Gerald, she reproached herself bitterly for
that shadow of wavering. Was she not
brave enough to give up everything, everybody,
for him ?

'' I dare say he repents at this moment,"
said her grandmother, going off on a new tack.
*' Perhaps they are in the tunnel now, and,
as he has nothing to look at, he is considering
how he can feed you now he has got
you. Perhaps he ascertained, though, that
you were going to starve yourself and feed

him. He is not the least selfish of his sex,
that young man."

"You know nothing whatever about him,
grand mamma," said Theoo.

'' I know that all young men are alike,
and my experience among them has not been
small. Now, Theoo, seriously, I will have
no more of this nonsense. Sit down and
write to him, or I will if you won't. Tell
him that you feel you have made a mistake,
and that I have convinced you by refusing
my consent  for, after all, I have some
diamonds."

The faint shadow of a smile crossed
Theoo's face as her grandmother spoke ; it
perhaps struck her that such arguments as
this were too absurd to be noticed at all.
Lady Redcliff probably felt the same, for,
after a minute's silence, she suddenly changed
the subject.

'' There Is a letter for you," she said, " sent
on from London."

Theoo went up to the table and took the
letter. As she read It she smiled very
sweetly, and seeming to forget her own
affairs for the moment, she looked up quite
naturally and said :

*' It Is from John Goodall. Nell has a
son. I am so glad ! "

'* Sensible woman," said Lady Redcllff.
'what fun for John! He was made to dance
a baby''

Theoo stood with the letter in her hand,
and read it two or three times over.

'how happy Nell must be!" she said,
half to herself.

It seemed possible to drop the subject of
her own engagement, for Lady Redcliff had
quieted down strangely ; perhaps she saw
that scolding Theoo was an absolute waste

of words. She watched her keenly, however,
as she stood looking down at John's
letter, and the set, grave, resolved look of
her little pinched face did not bode much
good for Gerald in the future.

'they must be two lumps of happiness,"
she said presently. '* Don't you want to
go and write to them ? Pray send my love
to the heir of all the pots."

Theoo walked across to the door ; there
she stopped and turned round.

'' I shall tell them," she said.

"Your own delightful news? Certainly,
quite a charming exchange," said Lady Red-cliff.
''Theo," she called, as the door was
closing, "where is Gerald Fane going to
when he gets to England ? "

To Deerhurst, to finish off his business
there," Theoo answered, a little startled by
the question.

'thank you, my dear," said Lady Redcliff
amiably. "You can go. I don't want you," she
added, as Theoo Angered a moment at the door.

Theoo went away to her own room. She
wrote a friendly little note to John, and a
long affectionate letter to Helen. It seemed
quite necessary that her old friend, her
first dear companion, who certainly loved
her still, should hear all about her happiness.
Of course, Helen would not be pleased at
first, because of John's opinion ; but they
would both soon learn to know Gerald,
and then it would be all right. Theoo's
heart was full of peace, for she was not
really troubled by her grandmother's opposition,
which seemed to have melted
away. After all, even if Helen and John
refused to sympathise, which was hardly
possible now that they were so happy themselves,
their disapproval could not make

any difference ; and Theoo told them that
Gerald was going to Deerhurst, and hoped
that John would see him while he was
there. = The only thought that really troubled
her was the thought of Hugh. Who was
to tell him ' Theoo longed a little to write
herself, but could not make up her mind to
that at once, after the parting they had had.
And presently, after these letters were done,
she forgot everything In writing her first
letter to Gerald.

In the meanwhile, Lady Redcliff, alone
in her room, was writing two letters, an
unusual performance for her, who had no
friends. They were both directed to the
same corner of Staffordshire.

Dear Mr. Goodall,

'' Your wife's cousin, my granddaughter,
Theodosia Meynell, has engaged herself to

a young man called Gerald Fane, who she
first met at your wedding. Such a marriage
is totally out of the question. You and
your wife, two of the most sensible people
I know, will agree with me, and will help
me, if you can, to prevent this girl from
committing suicide. If you see Mr. Fane,
have the goodness to let him know what we
think about it. I understand that you believe
his brother to be little better than a swindler.
The man himself is simply a beggar, and
Theoo shall not marry him. I was glad to hear
of the birth of your son, and hope he is like
his father. Yours sincerely,

''C. Radcliffe
Dear Mr. Fane,

<' My granddaughter has just astounded
me with the news of her engagement to you.
In my days a man did not ask a woman to
marry him unless he could offer her something

besides the honour of belonging to
himself. Pride and self-respect, of course,
are gone out of fashion long ago ; but I
believe a young man still likes a good
dinner, and I do not see how that can be
provided on three hundred a year, which no
doubt you know Is the amount of my granddaughter's
fortune. You will excuse me for
thinking that you would not have much else
to depend upon. You will think me a cruel
old woman for telling you that the marriage
is impossible. As Theodosia will not believe
me, I must ask you to write and tell her
that I have convinced you. I am sure you
do not know that your brother, Mr. Litton,
having been trusted as a friend by Colonel
North, who died last year, managed, by
some supernatural cleverness, to relieve him
of nearly all his fortune. This happened
some years ago, and was hushed up by

Colonel North's generosity ; but there are
people to be found who could tell you the
whole story. Colonel North was Theodosia's
uncle, her mother's brother, and, as you
probably know, she lived with him till he
died. I think you will feel with me that
a marriage connection between your family
and hers is almost impossible ; at least, if
you had known this story, I am sure you
would never have asked her to marry you.
I like your name, and you, and I am sorry ;
perhaps, too, it has been partly my fault.
I know you will get over the disappointment,
and be grateful to me some day,
though at this moment you think me a
spiteful demon. Pray write to her, and put
an end to this thing as soon as possible.
Please yourself about mentioning my Interference.
Yours very sincerely,

''C. Radcliffe

'' That will touch Mr. Gerald, If I know
the Fanes at all," muttered Lady Radcliffe
Not that I care a halfpenny myself about
that old story  Henry North was a soft fool,
and it was probably his own fault  but the
starvation argument is no use with romantic
young Idiots like these. Poor boy !  poor
wretch ! I shall have a fine scene with Theoo
one of these days ; but she has brought It
all on herself, and I don't pity her in the
least."

THE OBSTACLE.

Gerald told the news to Ada on their journey
home, and was not quite flattered by her
extreme astonishment. That this child, knowing
nothing of the world, should think his
marriage with Miss Meynell almost an impossibility,
was a wound to his dignity, and
to his confidence in himself. Ada's remarks,
full of incredulous delight, seemed to bring him
down to a region of fact, to tell him that that
vision of the Sasso had been a deception and
a dream. He was very nearly turning back
on his journey, and rushing again to Locarno,

just to verify It ; but Ada was an obstacle
to that, and he took her on to England,
growing more absent and more Irritable
with every mile that separated him from
Theoo.

He took Ada to a quiet lodging In Kensington,
which was kept by an old servant of
their mother's, and after staying there for a
day or two, left her In this good woman's
care while he went down to Deerhurst. He
had exchanged letters with Clarence, who was
there already ; various business matters had
to be wound up before Gerald was free of
his old post ; his books and possessions were
there, too, and must be packed and taken
away. He now hoped to find work of some
sort In England, and was determined to
consult Clarence, who knew more than most
people on the subject. Gerald did not much
care what the work was, so that It was unconnected

with Warren ; but his hopes were not
high now, as they had been at Locarno.
Away from Theoo, without even a letter, her
inspiring Influence had passed away for the
time, leaving only a restlessness, which was a
form of love, but wanted sadly the faith and
hope that make love perfect.

Ada did him some good, when he wished
her " good-bye," by looking up Into his face
and saying :

"When people have got what they wanted
most, are they always so discontented,
Gerald ? "

'* Mind your own business ; besides, I
haven't got it'* said Gerald.

" Then you don't believe in her as I do,"
said his little sister.

He only laughed, but those words sent
him down to Deerhurst in a much better
temper.

VOL. II. o

He arrived on a lovely spring afternoon,
and walked across by a field way from
Malnley to the little village. The fresh
green of the country was pleasant after the
hurried travelling, and bustling London days.
If there was a trail of smoke stealing across
the soft white clouds and limpid pools of
blue, there were also copses and hedgerows
full of primroses, emerald hedges, oak trees
bursting Into gold. As Gerald walked under
the Scotch firs, along the top of his old hill,
where lambs were racing, and came in sight
of the orchard In Its hollow, budding white
and pink, of the old white gables and irregular
roofs overhung with ivy, he felt sorry that
he must leave the house which he had so
cheerfully prepared for Ada. The quaint,
out-of-the-way, cottage-like building had a
strong attraction for him. He had met Theoo
at the door, and she had once walked in the

garden ; the place seemed somehow connected
with her.

He let himself in at the front door, and
walked straight Into the study. His brother
was sitting there, smoking, and surrounded
with papers. He looked up rather oddly at
Gerald as he came In.

The young fellow looked particularly handsome
and happy that afternoon. His eyes
were bright ; he held himself well, and had
an air of adventurous courage and triumph
about him. He looked as he used to look
when he was a boy, and always got what he
wanted. Clarence used to admire his young
brother heartily in those days, and had
laughed approvingly one day when some lady
said that Gerald Fane's eyes could talk all
languages ; but he had hardly ever seen him
look so since he left the army, and took to
drudging for his daily bread. Thus he was

o 2

Startled at meeting the bold, bright fire in '
Gerald's eyes once more. They shook hands,
and Gerald sat down, and they talked in a
friendly manner for some time. Clarence
asked about Ada, and about Gerald's plans,
and told him that he hoped to stave off a
quarrel with Warren, but he thought it very
probable that Warren would insist on getting
rid of this Deerhurst concern, which wanted
more attention than he could conveniently
give it at present.

Besides, the associations will be painful*'
said Clarence coolly. '' The poor old chap
was seriously fond of Ada, you know."

Suppose we keep off that subject," said
Gerald.

*' Very well ; it is not a pleasant one forme.
You want to talk about yourself; you
want some advice, do you ? Well, if you
were not so desperately proud, I should advise

you to look out for an heiress. You don't
want work, my boy ; you want money."

Do you suppose an heiress would look
at me ? " said Gerald, a little consciously.

' I think she might go that length," said
Clarence.

But she is out of the question," said
Gerald. '' About work : what do you think
I had better do ? "

*' Go to the Colonies," answered Clarence
promptly. " There's nothing for you to do
in England. Now I know some fellows who
have just started a company in South Africa,
to speculate in building at KImberley, and
one or two places of that kind. They want
somebody to go and live out there, and manage
their affairs. They will give him shares, and
make him a director ; that is how he will
be paid. It is sure to answer ; those places
are growing every day."

'* It sounds rather like Eden," said Gerald
a little dismally.

*' It is a bond fide concern, however,"
said Clarence; "and I think I could get you
the appointment."

Thanks ; but I would much rather stay
in England. In fact. I can't be banished to
Africa."

*' Very well ; you have only to make up
your mind. If we apply for this thing, it
must be done at once, for I can tell you
plenty of fellows would be glad enough to
jump at it. What on earth do you want to
stay in England for ? Ada ' Well, you
could find somebody to take charge of her.
No danger of her being run off with

again."

"Well," said Gerald, hesitating, 'the fact
is, you know  to tell you the truth, I'm
engaged to be married."

Clarence stared at him with an astonished
smile, and whistled.

'' What girl has made such a goose of
herself ? Not  no, come, that is impossible ! "

Gerald nodded. It did seem impossible.
Clarence's surprise was certainly the most
natural thing in the world.

'' By Jove ! But what does her grandmother
say ? "

Gerald did not trouble himself to answer
this question, for just then his eyes fell
upon two foreign letters, standing on the
chimney-piece. He got up and seized them.

** Ah, I might have guessed," said Clarence
Look here, Gerald," and his face took its
hardest expression, '' I think this is a pity ;
but you don't want my opinion. I have only
to say that I don't like these people, and they
are nothing to me. If you belong to them
henceforth, good-bye to you. If Miss Meynell

means to marry you, her people can find work
for you, or bread without work, better still.
But mark my words, that old woman will put a
spoke in your wheel."

'' Lady Redcliffhas been very good to me,"
said Gerald.

'has she?" said Clarence with a sneer.

Gerald said no more to him then. He
pocketed his letters, and strolled off into the
garden. Down there, a long old-fashioned
walk ran under a tall hedge, with a bank
where primroses of all colours grew in clumps,
and dark blue gentians, crown-imperial lilies,
wallflowers scenting the air, bright anemones
and twenty other flowers. There grew the
tree which had given Theoo her rose last
autumn, with many more bushes, no roses on
them now. But the old garden, especially
this long walk, was full of gay colours and
pleasant scents ; there were fruit-trees and

shrubs in blossom ; and the soft blue hazy
distance, stretching far beyond the garden
hedge, had all the magic tints and fairy
touches of spring.

Alone down there, away from everybody
but the birds, who were singing all round
him, Gerald read Theoo's letter, and knew that
this strange passionate happiness was not a
dream after all. By-and-by, slowly and
carelessly, he opened Lady Radcliffe

few minutes later, Clarence looked up
from his papers to see Gerald standing over
him, white and stern, and to have a letter
thrown down before him, with the hoarse
question :

*' What does this mean ? "

He saw instantly, at one glance, what
the letter contained. He kept himself very
quiet, with a sort of smile, and read it
patiently from beginning to end ; his smile

was a little broader at the opening sentences,
but died away at the part that
concerned himself. When he had finished,
he pushed the letter from him and took
up his pen again ; for a minute or two
there was dead silence In the dark little
study, where Gerald stood looking down at
his brother, who had brought him up, and
had loved him, and had been his evil genius
all along.

What does It mean 1 " he said again.
'' Answer me, will you ?"

You believe that false old woman against
me ? Well, I suppose It's natural," said
Clarence, without looking up.

I said nothing of the kind," said Gerald.
*' If you will tell me It Is false, I will tell
her so." Then, after another painful pause,
he added ; '* For God's sake, say It Is false,
Clarence ! "

I wish I could, old boy," Clarence
answered, with real regret in his voice ; '' but
it's no use denying what can so easily be
proved, Well, it was an awkward business,
certainly, and I did not want it to come
to your ears. I shall be sorry if Ada hears
of it. However, these things follow one up,
find one out, as they say. Sit down, and
ril tell you, if you care to know."

Gerald sat down by the table, leaning
his head on his hands.

As it was  if I was to know it," he
muttered, '' why didn't I know it months
ago?"

'' Ah, pity you didn't," said Clarence
quietly. " Now you understand what that
young North meant by his manner to me."

'' I understand everything now," said
Gerald. He leaned forward, holding his
head between his hands. *' Does she know

does she know ? " he was saying to himself;
but there was no answer. Theoo was
so unlike other women, it was possible that
she might know. If she could give herself
to him, after he had told her of that terrible,
unworthy temptation which had seized him
in the autumn, she might, perhaps, think
that Clarence's fault was not an impassable
barrier between them. And yet the idea
that she might know, might believe that
he knew, was shame and torture to Gerald.

As he dashed up from the garden he
had felt fiercely angry, and if his brother
had laughed, or sneered, or taken the thing
lightly, he could not have restrained himself
at all ; but now a hopeless misery had taken
the place of anger, and he listened patiently
in silence to Clarence's long explanation.
He did not try to make out that there was
any excuse for himself; Clarence had a good

deal of bravado about him, and the facts he
told Gerald were worse and more degrading
than anything Hugh North had told Theoo,
and she  poor Theoo !  had told her grandmother.


It seemed wonderful that Clarence Litton
could have dared to keep his own name or
to hold up his head at all in England. He
did not deny that Colonel North had behaved
very generously ; he said also that he should
have gone to the dogs altogether unless
Warren had come forward and helped him.

'' I am afraid," said Clarence deliberately
when he reached the end of his story, *' that
the poor old colonel's rest would be rather
troubled if he knew that his favourite niece
was going to marry my brother."

*' But she is not," said Gerald.

Clarence looked at him in silence for a
minute.

You are going to obey the grandmother's
orders ? " he said presently. '' Well, old fellow,
Tm sorry  upon my honour, I am ; but
I believe it is the most prudent thing you
can do. Under any circumstances, you seethe
engagement was not very wise. If you.
are to marry at all, and not be dragged down,
you ought to find a girl with money  which
Miss Meynell has not, I believe."

*' Don't ! " said Gerald between his teeth.

" Well, I won't," said Clarence.

He lighted a cigar and leaned comfortably
back in his chair, watching Gerald with a
certain kindness. The poor boy was dreadfully
cut up, he could see. It was natural,
for Miss Meynell was a handsome girl, and
did not always look so freezing cold as
when her eyes fell upon himself.

As for the shame, the disgrace, which was
weighing so heavily on Gerald, Clarence had

long ceased to be troubled by any feelings
of that kind ; and he did not feel any poignant
remorse for being the cause of all this disappointment.
Gerald, in his opinion, was a
great fool to think of hampering himself with
a wife at all.

Presently the young fellow looked up,
very quiet and pale.

What were you saying about that African
affair ? " he said, pulling some writing-paper
towards him. '' What is the man's address ?
Shall I write, or will you ? "

*' Suppose I do," said Clarence. " Comes
in very handy as a resource. Nothing like
new scenes. You are a sensible fellow''

MR. Goodwill IN PERPLEXITY.

Gerald Fane had come down to Deerhurst
on Friday ; his letters from Locarno had been
waiting for him there since Thursday morning.
On that morning two foreign letters had also
reached Woodcote House, and had been read
by John Goodall at his early breakfast.

He was alone. Mrs. Fraser was staying
In the house, taking care of Helen like a
kind stepmother, but she did not come down
to breakfast till two hours later, and this was
a comfort to John, who was not very fond
of Mrs. Fraser. She talked a good deal of

nonsense, he thought, and was inclined to
patronise him.

John, having unlocked the post-bag, read
Theoo's letters first, her long one to Helen,
and her little note of congratulation to himself.
His face lengthened very considerably,
for he was fond of Theoo, and did not at
all like the notion of her throwing herself
away.

'just like her! Didn't I say so? And
Helen wouldn't believe me. Cool chap that
young Fane ! All our fault, I suppose, for
having her down here. This will put Helen
in an awful fuss."

With these meditations, he went on steadily
eating his breakfast. Must Helen be told ?
Rather inconsiderate of Theoo to write her a
letter like this when she was ill. Should he
send it up to Mrs. Fraser and ask her to tell
the news as she thought best ? No, he did

vol II. p

not like that plan. He had not much
confidence in Mrs. Fraser.

Then he took up Lady Redcliff's letter,
which he had not noticed at first. This made
him open his eyes and whistle, and pull a
longer face than before, though he smiled at
first at her ladyship's peremptory style.

'poor Theoo!" he reflected, ''of course her
grandmother is right ; it is a mad notion
altogether  not that I ever actually called
Litton a swindler  but it's a horrid disagreeable
business, and I wish anybody would
tell me what I ought to do. One thing 
I'll take care that Helen knows nothing
about it till she is stronger  and so Mrs.
Fraser shall not hear of it from me."

After this John read the letters carefully
over again, put them into his pocket-book,
and went upstairs to wish Helen "good-bye"
before going ofT to his work. He took Theoo's

little note to him, In which there was not a
word about herself, and read It to Helen as
she lay smiling among her pillows, not thinking
of much but her small red baby. In
spite of her weakness, however, she put her
husband Into a dilemma by saying rather
wistfully :

I wonder Theoo didn't write to me."

John looked at her doubtfully for a moment.
He was perfectly truthful and open by nature,
and If Helen had been herself, she would
certainly have seen that he was deceiving
her.

'' Perhaps she thought you were not
strong enough," he suggested, feeling like
a liar.

'' She is a silly old thing ; she knows
nothing about it," said Helen. '' John, nurse
says he is beginning to take notice."

The change of subject was very comfort

2

ing, and John presently went off to his work
with Theoo's secret still hidden away In his
pocket-book.

He did not read his other letters till he
got to the office. Among them there was a
very friendly one from Hugh North, whom,
at Helen's wish, he had asked to be godfather
to his son. On reading this, it struck John
that Hugh North was an uncommonly sensible
man, that he was more interested in Theoo and
her affairs than any other member of her
family, that he, of course, would be the right
person to consult in this difficulty. If anything
could be done to stop such a foolish
affair. Captain North would be the person todo
it. Theoo had probably written to him, for
she was not at all ashamed of her wild proceedings,
but John thought there could be no
harm in having a little communication with
Huo-h on his own account. At least. It would

be pleasant not to feel alone in the business,
and responsible, as Lady Redcliff seemed,
rather unfairly, to consider him. So he sat
down and wrote a short letter to Hugh, telling
him the news, in case he did not know it
already, expressing his own regret and vexation,
and enclosing a copy of Lady Redcliff's
letter. When this was done, he put the whole
thing out of his mind as much as possible, and
attended to his own business.

His head clerk was full of a report that the
Deerhurst Collieries were likely to be for sale,
and Mr. Goodall spent most of the day looking
over the books with him in order to decide
whether it would be a prudent step to buy
them. John was strongly inclined towards it ;
he deeply regretted having missed a former
opportunity, which would have saved him from
many annoyances, and the present entanglement
among them. Too late for that ; but he

could at least spare himself troublesome neighbours
in future.

He asked his clerk casually whether Mr.
Fane was at Deerhurst. The man said he
thought not, but Mr. Litton had been therefor
a day or two, and there was some rumour
of a dissolution of partnership between him
and Mr. Warren.

John did not write that day to Theoo, or
to Lady Redcliff; he thought it best to wait
till he had heard from Hugh North ; but he
was not quite prepared for the effect of his
letter on that calm personage. Soon after
he reached his office on Friday morning he
received a telegram :

I must speak to you. Will comedown

by the four train to-day. If you

cannot receive me, telegraph, and come
here."

John considered. Mrs. Fraser was going
back to Linwood that afternoon, for her husband
could not do without her any longer.
He did not wish to ask her to stay another
day, which he must do, he thought, if he
went off himself to London, for Helen could
not be left alone. He was determined not
to tell her the news till he had talked it over
with Captain North, and he did not quite
see why he should inconvenience himself by
rushing off to town on the affairs of his
wife's cousin, much as he liked her. Of
course he did not care for the notion of a
visitor while Helen was so ill ; but after
all, Hugh North was a very quiet fellow ;
and on the whole, he thought he had better
come.

He telegraphed that he should be met
that evening at Mainley, and at luncheon-time
he went to Helen's room, and told her

quietly that Hugh was coming for a night
or two.

How funny ! " said Helen. '' Why doesn't
he wait till I am downstairs again ? "

'* Did you ask him ? " said Mrs. Fraser,
who was sitting by the fire.

'' No, I did not," said John a lite
shortly.

He thought it was no business of hers.

Mrs. Fraser did not at all mind his small
attempts at snubbing. She had her revenge
by calling him " That excellent creature ! "
Such a good, solid fellow ! " and other
opprobrious names of the same kind.

Poor Hugh !" she said good-humouredly.
*' I always think his life is rather dismal,
though he has plenty of friends. I dare say
he wants a little change, and of course he
ought to see his godson. At the same
time  with no disrespect to you, dear John,

and of course Nell is out of the question
just now  I could understand it better if
Theoo was staying with you."

Oh, mamma, that was always an idea
of yours ! But she doesn't care the least bit
for him," said Helen, while John stared at
Mrs. Fraser in horror and astonishment.

'' No," she said, looking at the screen in
her hand; "Theoo is not likely to do anything
so sensible. But it was your Uncle Henry's
great wish, you know ; and we all know that
Hugh, who is most particular about girls in
general, never had a word of blame for
Theoo's pranks, even the wildest and most
ridiculous. And now that he is alone, and
with plenty of money, too, and Theoo with
nobody but that horrid, shocking Lady Red-cliff
 well, I think it would be the best thing
that could happen, and I only wonder it has
not happened before now."

' Did you know anything of this, Helen ?"
said John, almost sternly.

"How absurd you are, John!" said
Mrs. Fraser, looking round. "There is
no secret. I have been saying nothing
but what the whole family has always
known."

Oh, it's nothing ! " murmured Helen.

You mean to say, Mrs. Fraser," said
John, "that you believe Hugh North to be
attached to Theoo."

I mean to say that I don't mean to be
cross-examined," said Mrs. Fraser, smiling.
Yes, I think it is a sort of attachment.
I shall be rather surprised if they don't
marry in the end. But I wouldn't say anything
about it if I were you."

No danger of that," said John, and he
went out of the room.

The complications were thickening round

him. He had no relations of his own to
trouble him much, but his wife's relations
seemed bent on making his life uncomfortable.


Captain North arrived at Woodcote House
about half-past six. He was always grave,
and there was nothing unusual in his manner
as he shook hands with his host, who met
him in the hall.

"Very glad to see you," said John.

Mrs. Fraser's hints made him cautious
about saying any more.

"Thanks," said Hugh. "I thought it
best to come."

There was a curious, momentary flash
in his blue eyes as he spoke, but he went
on to inquire quite properly for Helen and
the baby. It was not till after dinner that
they began to talk about the subject that
had brought him there. The evening was

warm and lovely, and they were sitting
near an open window, looking out into the
soft, moonshine twilight. The lamp-rays
fell on some flowers growing outside, making
them shine like gems ; there were voices
and laughter in the village not far away ;
upstairs Helen and her new darling had
fallen gently asleep. All the cares of life
were kept away from her, but they weighed
very heavily on her cousin Hugh and
on her husband, from something more than
sympathy. John heartily wished that Mrs.
Fraser had held her tongue. In that
case he would have better known what
to say to this man, who had talked ina
dreary, absent way all through dinner,
and was now leaning forward in a dejected
attitude, silent, and staring into the
garden.

At last John could not bear it any

longer, and he began to speak in a kind,
hearty voice, his keen dark eyes fixed on
Hugh.

* I suppose you think this is rather bad
news  don't you ? " he said. " But if Theoo
has made up her mind, what are we
to do ? Lady RedcHff seems to expect a
good deal ; I'm afraid she will be disappointed."


Huoh winced a little, and did not answer
for a moment. John had, no doubt, some
slight guess at the truth, but he could not
tell that speaking of Theoo, or hearing her
name mentioned, was the sharpest pain this
soldier had ever gone through. Hugh turned
white to the lips, and coughed, and at last
broke out into words. It was easier after
that first effort,

Lady Redcliff is quite right, ' he said
very sternly. " The thing must be stopped."

''Ah, but how?"

"You have a bad opinion of Litton,"
said Hugh.

'' I don't think much of him ; but, after
all, that is nothing against Fane."

I am going to tell you something about
Litton," Hugh went on, *rand after that you
will judge what is best to be done."

John nodded. He listened with the most
careful attention to Hugh's story which was
told very shortly and simply.

'I do not wish to rake the matter up
now," said Hugh at the end ; '' not publicly
I mean. My father forgave the man, and
though I can't do that, I will let him alone.
But you will judge now, Goodall. My
cousin  she can't  she can't marry that
man's brother."

'' Of course, if she knew, she would never
have thought of it," said John gravely.

Hugh twisted himself in his chair; he
said nothing ; he could not tell John Goodall
that Theoo did know.

*' You think she ought to be told ? " said
John presently. '' But are you sure it would
make any difference to her now ? She
seemed to me rather a positive character."

'' Most likely not. I don't want to discuss
that," said Hugh. '' Don't you see
what I mean . It can't be  it must not be
allowed to happen."

'' I don't like the notion of it at all,"
said John. " I agree with you, but the
question is, how is it to be prevented ? "

"Why, surely," said Captain North, "a
girl's relations have some influence, some
authority. You see what her grandmother
says  she is perfectly right. Even if it
were not for this other reason, she might as
well marry a beggar. It is degrading  it

is an Impossible marriage for her, and
nothing but misery can come of It. If she
is bent on ruining herself, we must not allow
It. You must help me  we must do something."


All this was so unlike the calm, unimpassioned
Hugh ; there was such Intense
pain In his voice, his very attitude was so
strained and miserable, that John Goodall
was quite touched.

'' What a confounded pity ! " he began,
and broke off suddenly, going on In a more
reasonable manner. "Well, you see. North,
from what I know of your cousin, I suspect
she has taken a fancy to this fellow, and
she probably won't choose to hold him
responsible for his brother's sins. She has
something of her own  what Is it, three
hundred a year ? And I suppose she will
have something from her grandmother, but

not if she marries to displease her. I don't
suppose Gerald Fane has more than a poor
curate would, and I hear rumours of this
Deerhurst Colliery business breaking up ; in
that case he will be thrown out of employment.
Then there is this affair of Litton's,
which makes it quite necessary to prevent
the thing, as you say. We can't have our
family mixed up with swindlers. Yes,
it must he checked somehow. I think
we had better have a talk with Fane himself."


Hugh North had listened patiently to
this long prose, which told him nothing
that he did not know before. At the final
suggestion, however, he lifted up his head
and laughed.

What can be the use of talking to a selfish
fool like that .? " he said. " I should like topick
a quarrel with him, and shoot him. That

VOL. 11. Q

IS the only way of getting rid of him, as far
as I can see''

I won't stand by you, there," said John
Goodall.

Hugh laughed again, and then passed his
hand over his eyes and sighed. His calmness
seemed to be breaking down, and now John
quite believed what Mrs. Fraser had said. He
was very grave ; he was sorry for everybody,
and felt himself, perhaps, benevolently superior
to everybody.

*' I don't think Fane Is a selfish fool," he
said. *' I believe he would have been a nice
fellow, if circumstances had let him. I will
find out tomorrow morning whether he is at
Deerhurst, and you and I will talk to him.
Or I will talk to him, if you are Hkely to lose
your temper."

" Why should I lose my temper ? " said
Hugh stiffly. " I should be ready to talk to

him, if I saw any use in it. But the only
thing we can do is to threaten his brother with
exposure."

That will be a last resource," said John.
*' I should not be surprised if he was ignorant
of that matter himself."

Hardly possible," said Hugh.

They went on talking till very late, assuring
each other that the thing must and
should be stopped ; but Hugh, at least, felt
quite as despairing as when he had received
Goodall's letter that morning, and in the first
wild impatience had telegraphed to him. He
would have moved heaven and earth to do
away with what had happened ; but heaven
and earth were immovable by him. The idea
of Theoo actually engaged to Gerald Fane, was
maddening. He was sorry now that he had
come down to Woodcote, for it needed a great
effort to hide the strength of his feelings,

Q 2

and to make worthy John believe that he was
only thinking of Theoo's Interests. Theooy all
regarded him almost as Theoo's brother ; and
her brother had a right to be furious at her
throwing herself away ; but her brother would
have taken the matter into his own hands,
would have gone off to Locarno, without
consulting anybody ; and Hugh did not dare
to think of seeing her. He rather wondered,
as he lay awake that night, that John had
not advised him to remonstrate with her ;
could he have betrayed himself . No ; the
idea was absurd ; a fellow like John Goodall
could not possibly find out what he had told
nobody.

He came down the next morning very
grave and dismal. John met him with the
news that young Fane was at Deerhurst,
and they agreed to walk over there together
soon after breakfast. Helen sent down a

message that she would like to see Hugh
in the afternoon, and to show him the baby.
Hugh stared blankly at first ; he had quite
forgotten the baby ; but he recovered himself,
and was very glad to hear it. Then
he trembled at the thought of what she
might say about Theoo, and asked John
what she thought of the affair.

She knows nothing about it," said John
reassuringly.

They walked towards Deerhurst by way
of the colliery, through Woodcote village,
along the high stony road, down that steep
lane where Theoo and Wool had walked
between bright autumn hedges, now lovely
with the cooler, calmer brightness of spring.
There lay the colliery, seemingly deserted,
there were the marshy meadows in their
unhealthy green, the gleaming poisonous
pools, the black stumps blacker than ever,

with all the tender tints of air and earth
round them. A forest of reeds was growing
up by the water; the railway banks beyond
were covered with gorse in flower.

*' It does not look like a place to make
money in," said John thoughtfully. '' But
I shall make a difference, if it ever belongs
to me."

A little way beyond the colliery-gate
there was a turn in the lane, screened by
large thorn-bushes ; the railway-arch was
just beyond. At this corner they met Gerald
Fane, walking very fast, and stooping, with
his eyes on the ground.

There was something in his manner
which surprised both the men very much
as he came up to them and stopped to speak
to them, without any sign of consciousness.
He did not look at all happy, or like an
accepted lover ; he evidently had not the

slightest wish to avoid them ; he looked
indifferently at Hugh North, almost as if
he did not know or care who he was.

*' Have you heard that we are going to
clear out of this?" he said to John Goodall.

'' It's true, then ! " said John.

'true, as far as I am concerned," said
Gerald quietly. *' I am going to Africa. I
have just had a telegram. I have got to
sail at the beginning of the week. A grand
opening for building houses at Kimberley."

*why, you are not an architect, or a
builder," said John.

** I'm a director of a company, and that
covers everything," answered Gerald.

"Is not this something very sudden ? "

I settled it with my brother last night.
Yes, it's rather sudden, but things generally
are ; and one must get rid of one's life
somehow."

The three young men stood together in
the road. Hugh and John were both looking
at Gerald  John with an interest which was
not at all unkind ; Hugh with a wondering
anxiety which tried to be like indifference, and
succeeded fairly well.

Gerald himself was looking away up the
hill, and for a moment or two they were all
silent.

Then, as John evidently did not know what
to say or do next, and as young Fane was
not likely to stand there long to be stared at,
Captain North took the matter into his own
hands.

** You know who I am, Mr. Fane ? " he
said.

Gerald bowed, and the look in his eyes was
both fierce and ashamed.

"Then you will excuse my curiosity," said
Hugh very coldly. 'the last news that I

heard about you was  not that you were going
to Africa."

I did not know that myself till last night,"
said Gerald In a low voice. ** It can't matter
to you where I go."

"If that other news Is true, It matters
extremely."

It is not true."

I must ask you to explain yourself," said
Hugh, frowning angrily.

Gerald did not answer him directly, but
turned to John Goodall, who was standing by,
ready to interfere if the quarrel grew serious.

You don't know," he said ; '* at least, I
think not. But Captain North knows very
well. Is it not enough that I tell you I had
a talk with my brother last night ? " he said to
Hugh.

'' I understand," said Hugh, after a pause.
You did not know before ? "

I know now."

*' Very well, and you see how utterly impossible
But, even if there had been

no such obstacle as this, I tell you the thing
would have been equally impossible, and I
should have told you so under any circumstances."


Gerald looked Captain North full in the
face now. His eyes were full of anger and
scornful defiance, but he said nothing, and
after a moment his eyes fell before Hugh's
cold stare.

"You have the advantage of me, Captain
North," he said ; *' we won't argue. I feel
the disgrace as much as you can wish, and
you will not be troubled with me any more."

Then he walked off towards the colliery.
The two others strolled on in the direction
of the railway, at first without speaking, but
presently John Goodall said :

*' Poor fellow ! "

" I don't see why you need pity him,"
said Hugh. "A fellow who climbs too high
is sure to get a fall. The airs he gave
himself were enough for me, long ago."

"He is popular generally," said John.
I wonder how Theoo will take it ? "

He was amused and a little angry at
Hugh's contemptuous hardness. If he meant
to punish him by this sudden allusion to
Theoo, he succeeded, for Hugh mooned along
in a depth of dismalness, and hardly spoke
again till they were back at Woodcote. Then
he insisted on going back to town by the next
train without waiting to see Helen ; and John, to
say the truth, did not press him much to stay.

Mr. Gerald Fane had evidently broken
off his engagement, but It seemed that no
one was pleased, not even Theoo's most
anxious and affectionate relations.

Gerald's letter.

Thus everybody who knew of Theoo's engagement
knew also that it had come to a
sudden end ; and the last to know this was
herself.

Lady Redcliff chose to stay on a few
days at Locarno ; she found the hotel cheap
and comfortable. Theoo liked this arrangement,
for she was very fond of Locarno. It
might not have the fairy beauty, the wide
expanse of brilliant water, the shadowy distance,
of Baveno and other places on the
lakes, but it was wild, and interesting, and

picturesque, and less evenly civilised than
those pet haunts of the English.

Theoo loved it, and thought it quite beautiful,
but association was everything with her.
During the next few days she found that she
could not even bear Combe's company in her
walks ; it was necessary to be alone.

Lady Redcliff was very quiet, and did
not say much about this. Theoo rambled
along the sides of the vine-terraced hills,
smiled and spoke to the women laden with
their baskets, made friends with the goats,
sketched, gathered wild flowers. She spent
a good deal of her time in the loggia of the
convent, dreaming idly in the sunshine ; sometimes
she would stray into the gaudy little
church and sit there in the shade and coolness.
A peasant woman might come in to
say her prayers, a monk might move about
for a few minutes in the sanctuary.

Theoo's favourite corner was near a side
altar, where there was a large modern picture
of the Entombment of Our Lord. The
faces were pale, the colour and feeling of
the picture were solemn and quiet. It was a
restful, comforting picture to look at, up therein
the intense stillness of the church.

Theoo did not know that she wanted comforting
; her whole heart was full of the
happy triumph of her love for Gerald, and
yet there was a strange sadness at the root
of things. Her grandmother was very cold
to her ; the first anger seemed to have
changed into indifference. She felt keenly
that she had no one but Gerald in the
world ; she wondered if he knew that as
well as she did ; she wondered how she
could have let him go away so soon when
they had so many, many things to say to
each other.

She went out of the church into the
little gallery, where she and Gerald had
stood that day, and leaned both her hands
hard upon the warm stones of the parapet,
and thought for a moment whether it had
been wrong and selfish to call him back
when he was going.

'' No, I could not have done anything
else," she said to herself as she flushed and
smiled at the remembrance.

The nightingales were singing, and the
masses of pink flowers blooming sweetly in
the sunshine. Theoo thought she would go
back and write to him ; perhaps  yes, surely,
she would find a letter waiting for her. He
had written from London, but that was not
in answer to hers ; it was perfect in its way,
however, and she took it out and read it
once more as she slowly crossed the lonely
loggia, and went down the worn old steps.

When she reached the foot of the ascent,
where the Madonna is painted on the wall,
something seemed to persuade her to stay
out a little longer, and instead of going onto
the hotel, she turned the other way into
the square where the large church stands ;
its bells were now ringing for a funeral, and
a little crowd had gathered to see the procession
pass. Slowly the long string of people
came winding up the narrow street, a band
playing a march, priests, banners, children of
the choir ; the coffin was that of a little child,
and was followed by children dressed in white
and flowers ; then the long lines of lighted
candles flickered in the daylight, and shone
like red sparks as they passed on into the
gloom of the church. Last of the procession
came a dog, walking with his head and tail
down.

Theoo followed them to the church door,

and stood looking in for a few minutes, while
the service went on ; but presently she
shivered all over, and turned away and
walked quickly back to the hotel.

When she reached her room she found
Gerald's letter there on the table. She read
it several times through before she understood
it in the least. Gerald said that he was
miserable, that he found he had made a
terrible mistake, that it was impossible they
should ever marry, and that, therefore, she
was free, and he could only ask her to forget
him. He told her that he had an appointment
offered him in South Africa, and should go
out there as soon as he could, not that it
mattered the least what became of him, but
it was not possible for him to stay in
England.

'* One can bear anything but disgrace,"

he said. " I knew it was selfish to tell you

VOL. II. R

at all, but I thought I could work for you,
and you will believe that I had not the
remotest idea of the discovery that was in
store for me. If you care to know more,
will you ask Lady Redcliff ; she can tell you."

*' What does he mean ? " said Theoo, and
she laid down her face on the letter.

The next moment she looked up, for Lady
Redcliff came into the room, and she said to
her, in a low, puzzled voice :

*' What does he mean ? "

'* He has come to his senses. Tm glad of
it," said Lady Redcliff. '' He will get on
much better without you. He has written mea
very sensible letter."

She held it out, and Theoo took it from
her, but the words swam in a mist before her
eyes.

What does he mean ? " she said again.
'what does he mean about disgrace?"

'* He understands that we don't want to
be connected with swindlers, however charming
they may be," said Lady Redcliff. *' Give me
the letter ; I'll read it to you ; and don't stare
like a madwoman.

Dear Lady Redcliff,

'You were right in thinking that I
was perfectly ignorant of what you tell me. I
shall, of course, do as you wish, and you and
yours will never be troubled with me again.
'Yours faithfully,

'Gerald Fane.'

"I call that very much to the purpose,"
she went on. '' The Planes have plenty of
pride. I knew I might safely reckon on that,
at least."

Theoo's senses were coming back to her
now.

R 2

Do you mean that this is your doing ? "
she said very quietly.

** Whose doing should it be ? " said Lady
Redcliff. ''If any one has a right to interfere,
to stop you from jumping over a precipice,
I suppose I am the person. You wouldn't
listen to me, so I was obliged to write to
Mr. Fane."

** And you told him "

** I told him that nice story you told me,
about his brother and your uncle. He has
more sense of honour, you see, than you have.
You thought nothing of it ; he is not so
unnatural."

'rand did you tell him that I know it 
that you heard it from me " " said Theoo.

No, I did not."

"Oh, grand mamma, I shall never trust
you again. What have you done ?  what
could that matter ?  what have you done .'* "

said Theoo, and she hid her face on Gerald's
letter again.

Her grandmother sat down and looked
at her with an expression of mocking amusement
; but there was something serious underneath.
The girl looked as if her spirit was
broken ; she had laid her beautiful head
down as if in despair. It seemed as if Lady
Redcliff's letter to Gerald had indeed brought
her an easy triumph. But Lady Redcliff
knew Theoo too well to feel sure of that.

*' What have I done ? That is a funny
question. I have done the best I could for
you, child," she said ; " saved you from your
own insanity."

** Do you think so ?" said Theoo, suddenly
lifting her head. Her eyes were brilliant ;
there were no tears in them, no softness,
but the flame that her grandmother used
to like was burning there. " Do you really

think you have saved me ? '' she said. " Do
you think I am going to give him up so
easily ? "

'' He has given you up easily enough,"
said Lady Redcliff coolly. " A most manageable
young man. I believe he is rather glad
to be free."

" Read that, then," said Theoo, flushing
crimson, and giving her Gerald's letter.

Lady Redcliff put on her spectacles, turned
to the window, and read the letter carefully
through. Her manner was very calm and
deliberate, but she could not control her
hands, which shook so that the paper rustled,
and she had to lay it down on the arm of
her chair.

I don't see much feeling in that ; he
says no more than he is obliged to say,"
she remarked, quietly handing the letter back
to Theoo. . 'you are beyond him; he doesn't

understand your ways ; he would get on
better with some second-rate flirt  some shopkeeper's
daughter. Going out to Africa!
What excellent news! Let him go, and
marry some rich blackamoor. Don't think
about him any more, Theo.'

"You are talking nonsense, and contradicting
yourself; you don't mean what you are
saying," said Theoo, looking at her. *' You
said just now that he was proud, like all
the Fanes. So he is ; prouder than any one
I know. You have not the faintest idea of
his character."

'' Who is contradicting herself now ? "
said Lady Redcliff, with a short laugh.
*' Pride is a very fine excuse. A man might
love you better than his pride."

He does," said Theoo, with sudden
passion.

"Does he?" said Lady Radcliffe

He has done what you made him do,
and now you are not satisfied ! "

*'0h yes, I am," said Lady Redcliff;
"but I don't Hke him any better for it, nor
do you. What authority had I over him ? I
simply said that I would not consent, expressed
my surprise at his having asked
you, told him that story, and advised him
to put an end to the thing. He has
certainly behaved like a very good boy,
and will meet with his reward some day, no
doubt."

Perhaps you thought you were doing
right," said Theoo dreamily, laying her head
down on her hands again. '' I shall go
mad, or my heart is broken, or something.
Africa! I wish I could die."

Oh, bosh ! don't pretend to be a worse
fool than you are," said Lady Redcliff
angrily, watching her with cat-like sharpness.

*rare you the first girl who has
been prevented from marrying a beggar ?
and do they generally die ? No, my dear,
they live to marry rich men. A couple of
years hence you will be ashamed of yourself."


'' I am ashamed of myself now," said
Theoo. " I am going to write to Mr. Fane,
and tell him that I knew it all along, and
it is nothing  nothing to me. Will you go
away now, please. I must write at once, or
I shall not have time."

Lady Redcliff got up and walked across
the room. When she came near the door
she stopped, and said very gravely :

*' Theoo man has done quite right, Theoo.
He could only set you free. I tell you,
under the circumstances, there was nothing
else he could do. I knew he was ignorant,
and I knew you were a fool. I took the

only means I had to put an end to a great
piece of madness. To tell you the truth,
I think Gerald Fane has behaved well, and
I respect him for it. But I shall not
respect you if you degrade yourself by trying
to bring the thing on again."

Theoo gave her grandmother a quick
glance, and looked away again, that brown
flame shining in her eyes. She shook her
head impatiently.

'you need not be afraid," she said.
But I must tell him what I think about
it," and she took some paper and began to
write in a great hurry.

Later in the day Lady Redcliff was
pacing about in the hall, an amusement
she was fond of, rather to the distress of
other people in the hotel, who shrank from
her instinctively. She saw Combe coming
downstairs with a letter in her hand, and

going towards the letter-box. She walked
slowly forward and intercepted her.

Give me that letter, Combe," she said.

Combe hesitated a moment, but though
she was a sturdy woman, she did not dare
to disobey Lady Radcliffe

Ah," said her ladyship, looking at the
address, " I thought so. Now, Combe, I am
going to take you into my confidence. I
dare say you had plenty of love-affairs when
you were young."

Combe grinned faintly, and stared in a
sort of consternation. A sensible, strong-minded
woman by nature, Lady Redcliffs
black eyes, sharp tongue, and hard, resolute
manner had the effect of making her feel
herself a helpless idiot. She used sometimes
to laugh at Sparrow's trembling, but in
Sparrow's place she would have been almost
as bad.

'' No doubt you managed your affairs
better than your mistress does hers," said
Lady Redcliff. " She has got herself into
a horrid scrape. You know who I mean ;
you see who this is addressed to."

Combe stammered and turned red ; she
couldn't say, she was sure

'well, this gentleman's relations are dishonest
people ; he is going to Africa ; and
there is no madness that Miss Theodosia is
not capable of. I've no doubt that in this
letter she is proposing to go with him. She
would die of fever, or be eaten by savages.
Being her grandmother, it is my duty to

prevent it ; therefore, you see. Combe "

and she tore the letter into three or four
pieces, '' I have not read it, I have simply
destroyed it. And now, if you are a trustworthy
person, you will not tell her what
I have done. Because, if you do, she will

immediately write to him again. Do you
see ? "

Combe looked horribly puzzled and distressed.


'eyes, my lady," she said, 'but I dont
know, I'm sure ; Miss Theoo gave me the
letter to post."

*' Don't be a fool!" said Lady RedcM
coolly. " Put one of these bits in the letter-box,
if you like, to make things square with
your conscience, then, if she asks you, you
needn't tell a lie. No, I think you had better
not. You must tell a lie, just for once in
your life  of course you never did such a
thing before  but she is a baby, and babies
must be deceived for their good. If it ever
comes out, you may put all the blame upon

me.

Then Lady Redcliff laughed, and walked
away to the reading-room, with the scraps

of Theoo's poor letter crumpled up in her
hand.

She made her way past two or three
chilly people who were sitting by the fire,
and dropped those bits of paper between
the burning logs. She stood for a moment
watching them as they flamed, with a mischievous
smile on her withered face. A man
who was sitting there said afterwards to his
wife that she was just like a little old evil
spirit.

After Theoo had written that letter to
Gerald she became outwardly much calmer.
The thing was out of her own hands now. She
had told him that his brother's past doings
could never make any difference to her ; had
asked him whether it was really necessary
for him to go to Africa ; had, altogether,
written him a letter like herself, frank, and
generous, and gentle, which would have made

him happy if he had received it. She had
nothing to do now but wait for his answer.
For the next few days she occupied herself
as she had done before, in wandering
about the hills. Sometimes she made excursions
to distant valleys, wild and lonely,
where streams of brilliant blue-green water
came foaming down from the heart of the
mountains. On these longer expeditions she
took Combe with her, but Combe appeared
to be tired of Locarno, and sick of scenery ;
her looks and manners were so dismal that
Theoo would certainly have asked what was
the matter, if she had not herself been lost
in a land of dreams. Lady Redcliff was kind
kinder than she had been before Gerald's
letter came ; she even asked Theoo what she
thought about going on to Baveno, and consented
without grumbling when the girl said
she would rather stay where she was. As

the days passed on, she began to be anxious
and uneasy, for no letter came from Gerald.
She said nothing, and did not write to him
again ; but she spent more and more time
at her convent of the Sasso, lingering so
long each day In the church, with her head
bowed on her hands, that the old monk who
crept in and out thought she was a devout
Catholic in trouble, and one day spoke to her.
She looked up at him, smiling sadly and shaking
her head. He understood, smiled too, and left
her with a muttered apology. They exchanged
friendly greetings several times afterwards.

Theoo had another friend on the hills, a
good Swiss woman, who had cows and a
vineyard of her own. She and Gerald had
wandered so far that morning In the only
walk they took together. They had strolled
on between the vineyards, along the narrow
terraced paths, green and sprinkled with wildflowers

In the dew and shadows of morning.
They had found their way into her bright
budding vineyard, just as the sun was beginning
to shine hotly over the hills, and
she had met them with courteous smiles, and
had asked them into her house to rest, and
had given them bowls of new milk in a high
little room with red leather furniture, and a
balcony looking down over the lake, whose
veil of mist was just rolling away. It was
impossible to forget that exquisite morning,
the feeling of wild freedom, of a happiness
beyond earth, mixed with the strange new
shyness which made the kind woman's mouth
curl with smiles as she brought them in the
milk and asked them little questions. Then
the small laughing argument they had about
paying her, and her refusal to take even
a franc, and her politeness in escorting
them to the end of the vineyard, and point-vol,

IT.

ing out the shortest way back to Locarno,
before they shook hands with her and
parted.

'' You will come and see me again ? "
said she.

I shall be very glad," said Theoo ;
'' but "

I am going back to England this very
day, madame," said Gerald in a melancholy
tone.

''Ah, quel malheur ! " cried the friendly
woman, clasping her hands together.

Theoo had been to see her once or twice
since then, and on her last afternoon at
Locarno  but she did not know it was that
she went once more. The good Swiss
was full of sympathy, and much too well-bred
to show her curiosity, but she wondered
why the pretty English woman was so very,
very sad.

When Theoo said '* good-bye" to her at the
entrance of the vineyard, she put her head
a little on one side, and asked, with an
Irresistible smile in her dark eyes :

And how Is monsieur ? "

Theoo was not at all angry, but looked
at her with a feeling of sudden tears.

I don't know'' she said In a low voice.
'' I have not had a letter for some days."

Ah, Is It possible ? " murmured her friend ;
and she took Theoo's hand and stroked It
gently. " Ah, these men ! " she sighed.

*' It Is no fault of his," said Theoo quickly.

Very well ; then It does not matter.
If all Is right between you, all will be right
some day."

Theoo felt that her cheeks were burning



as she walked away along the narrow green
path back towards the Madonna del Sasso,
where she was going to spend half-an-hour

s 2

on her way home ; but there was something
very sweet in the friendliness of this gentle
foreigner.

The half-hour lengthened itself into an
hour, for the church and the old loggia had
never been so still, so peaceful, so comforting
as they were that afternoon ; the leaves and
flowers were brighter, the distant colours
more lovely, the song of the birds more
strangely thrilling. Theoo felt as if she could
hardly bear to go away.

'' It is like leaving peace behind," she
said to herself as she left It at last. And
then the thought, 'there may be a letter,"
quickened her steps down the stony way.

There was a letter, but not from him.
It was dated from a street in Kensington :

* My DEAR Miss Meynell,

*you said I might write to you when

I was in trouble, and I am In very great
trouble now, and It Is all about you. At
least, it is about Gerald, too, for he sailed
this morning for Cape Town, and I know he
expected a letter from you before he went,
and did not get one, so he went away very
unhappy. It has all been so dreadfully
sudden, and I can't bear these changes.
On our journey home he told me something
about you, that I could not believe for
joy, and now he says It Is never to be, but
he would not explain anything. One of these
men wanted him to take his place, and go
out at once, and he said It was best for him
to go. Next week I am to go back to Mrs.
Keene s, the school where I was before, and
to live there for the present. Gerald settled
all that before he sailed. I am sure you
would have written. If you had known how
miserable he was. Everything seems too

lonely and dreadful ; It is almost worse
than being abroad, but I hope I have not
done wrong in telling you all this. Please
write to me if I have not offended you.
*' With my love, your ever affectionate

'ada Fane."

After she had read this letter, Theoo sat
quite still for a few minutes, gazing out of
the window. Then she turned to Combe,
who happened to be there, and said in a
low tired voice :

Combe, do you remember posting a
letter for me a few days ago  I forget which
day  a letter addressed to Mr. Fane . Yes,
I know you posted it ; I sent you downstairs
with it. It must have gone wrong at the
other end."

"Well, Miss Theoo," began Combe, and
then she coughed and hesitated.

'' I know you did," said Theoo. " It doesn't
matter. Do you know that I am engaged to
him ? "

Combe choked again.

Of course you suspected It," said Theoo
calmly. 'Mt Is a pity about this letter. He
has sailed for Africa, and I wrote It on purpose
to stop him."

Her quietness, a kind of pale despair, was
so much more touching than any anger or
excitement, that Combe was seized with an
agony of repentance. She bounced across
the room, flung herself on her knees by Theoo,
and with sobs and tears told her all the
truth.

'' Poor old Combe ! " said Theoo, when she
understood, and she gave her hand to the
old nurse, who kissed It, and wetted It with
tears. '' Don't mind so much. It was grand-mamma's
doing, not yours ; you couldn't very

easily disobey her. Now stop crying, and
begin to pack as fast as you can ; you and I
will start by the first train tomorrow morning."

'' Indeed, I'm glad and thankful to hear it,"
sobbed Combe.

Theoo left her to recover herself, and went
to her grandmother's room. Lady Redcliff,
who was reading in the window, looked up
carelessly, but Theoo's face immediately fixed
her attention.

'good gracious! who's dead now?" she
exclaimed.

''I came to say 'good-bye' to you," said
Theoo, standing near the door. " I am not
coming down to dinner, and Combe and I
will start for England by the first train tomorrow."


'what new freak is this, pray?"

I find that I shall never have an answer
to my letter  my letter, that I wrote to Mr.

Fane the other day," said Theoo. "And so it
is ' good-bye ' for ever, grand mamma ! "

'dear me, what a tragedy queen!" said
Lady RedcHff. '''Good-bye' for ever  certainly,
and with the greatest relief on my part.
Since you came to live with me, I have not
known a moment's peace. Your friendships
and your love-affairs  well, I suppose I shall
see your marriage in The Ties next week,
so pray don't trouble yourself to write and
announce it."

Theoo stood still for a moment, looking at
her.

Go, please. You are an ungrateful, unnatural
girl, and I hope I shall never see you
again," said the old woman. '' Do you hear .-
go.

And so, without another word, Theoo left
her.

DECIDED.

Gerald had not told his sister the real reason
of his sudden flight, and of the vanishing of
all his hopes. Theoo, of course, did not tell
her. Ada thought that all this misery was
simply caused by Lady Redcliff s disapproval ;
she could imagine that that would be very
powerful ; and when Theoo appeared one day
at her lodgings, and made arrangements for
taking up her abode there, with Combe and
all her worldly goods, saying quietly that she
was not going to live with her grandmother
any longer, Ada found herself in a state of

awful, mystified happiness. Theoo told her that
her letter to Gerald had been lost  she did
not say how ; that there had been a little
misunderstanding, which made him think it
right to give up the engagement.

'' But I don't agree with him ; I think
that is Impossible," said Theoo calmly. Theoon
she stooped over Ada, and laid her cheek
against her curly head, and said in the same
quiet voice : '' You mustn't go back to Mrs.
Keene, at least, not now. You must live
with me, because I am quite alone."

Ada was sitting on a footstool beside her.
She put her arms round Theoo's neck, and
pulled down her head to her shoulder, and
kissed her, and whispered tenderly :

Dear Theoo, I do love you ! "

Theoo's eyes were wet, and she drew a
long, sobbing breath as she returned the child's
embrace.

But she did not again let Ada see so far
into her unhappiness. She became very wise,
and thoughtful, and practical, taking Ada
entirely under her care, as if she had really
been her sister. She went to Mrs. Keene,
to explain this different arrangement for Ada.
She considered her expenses, and attempted
one or two housekeeping talks with Combe,
which generally ended in such displays of
ignorance that Combe grimly smiled, and
advised her mistress to leave all that to her.
Another thought, which crossed Theoo's mind
very often with a sharp pang of pain, was
this : that she ought to sell Aster. It was
most unlikely, under present circumstances,
that she would ever be able to ride him again.
Theoo knew very well that by this engagement
she was separating herself from all her past
life. It was gone ; she was another woman,
she did not belong any more to the Norths,

but to Gerald Fane. His sister was hers, his
future was hers ; and though she was happy,
and would not for all the world have had
things otherwise, there was certainly a touch
of bitterness in the remembrance of the past.
Theoo was neither heartless, nor selfish, nor
ungrateful In her love.

It was a strange thought, when she was
established In her new home with Ada, In a
terrace turning off from one of those quiet
roads which lead into Kensington High Street,
In small, high, bow-windowed rooms, looking
across into a mass of fresh young trees and
lilac-bushes, where the birds sang  it was
very strange to think that none of her relations
knew where she was, and she did not
quite care to tell them.

She had had a note from John Goodall,
one day at Locarno, after Gerald's despairing
letter had come to spoil all the new

happiness. John had written rather shortly
and stiffly, telling her that Helen was not
strong enough to be agitated by her news ;
he had therefore put her letter aside for the
present.

'' Now that things are changed," wrote
John, ** I suppose there will be no necessity
to communicate that news at all, at least, till
she is quite herself again. I am sorry If
you have been troubled about the business,
but I must confess that I should have found
It difficult to offer very hearty congratulations."


** How horrid It Is when one's friends are
married ! " said Theoo to herself, and she tore
John's letter and threw It away. '' I didn't
want his congratulations ; I wanted Nell's."

As the days of her London life went on,
she began to wish very much for some little
communication with Nell. She did not choose

to write to her again, to have her letter put
aside by John, so she wrote to him on the
subject of selHng Aster. It crossed her mind
that perhaps he would like to buy the dear
horse himself. If she had dared, she would
have written to Hugh on the subject ; but that
was beyond even her coolness and resolution.

Her letter to John Goodall was quite
short and business-like. She did not explain
how she came to be In Kensington, or say
a word about her own past, present, or future
doings. She only asked his advice about
the horse, and begged him to tell her when
she might write to Nell, and hope for an
answer.

The next evening she was sitting alone in
the drawing-room window, dreaming. There
was a lull in the distant noises, and birds were
singing loudly in the garden opposite, while
a sweet scent of May breathed in at the open

window. Theoo was not there at all ; she was
at sea with Gerald, far away on the other
side of the equator, when she was brought
back to reality by a familiar step and voice,
and woke up to find John Goodall standing
in the room.

At the first moment she was very glad to
see him ; this worthy fellow, whose marriage
with her cousin had made her angry and
scornful, was now like a face and voice from
happy old times, from the days when she
had belongings of her own.

How good of you ! " she said, flushing
with pleasure, as John grasped her hand.

It was a very different reception from
the one at Lady Redcliff's last autumn, when
her cold stateliness had at first chilled his
kind intentions. John was quite at his ease
now. He sat down and looked at her, his
face full of curiosity.

'' I was so surprised," he said, *' when I
got your letter this morning  thinking you
were still in Switzerland, you know  that I
was obliged to tell Helen the whole story.
She is much stronger now, so it didn't matter.
And, if one may ask, what have you done
with Lady Redcliff? And what are you
doing all by yourself here ? "

'' I left my grandmother at Locarno," said
Theoo, rather sadly.

John did not wait for an answer to his
other question.

"You asked me about selling Aster," he
went on. 'that is a matter for consideration.
Helen can't imagine why you should
want to do it ; but of course you have your
reasons."

I have," said Theoo. Theoon she felt an
earnest wish not to talk of her own concerns,
and began asking questions about Helen and

VOL. II. X

the baby. She longed to know whether
John had seen Gerald when he was at
Deerhurst, or how he had made up his mind
that the affair had come to nothing. She
wanted him to know that he was mistaken,
but it did not seem possible to tell him. Ashe
talked about his wife and son, she gazed
dreamily out of the window, hardly paying
much attention to what he said, till she was
obliged to answer a question.

'' Have you any particular reason for
staying here ? "

''Yes,'' said Theoo gravely.

Really ? " said John. " Helen wants you
to come down to us. She is very anxious
to have you. In fact, she is afraid you have
thought her unfeeling ; but I explained to her
that it was all my doing, and that you knew
that very well. I could not have startled and
distressed her, you know. You will come } "

Theoo shook her head. She saw that she
must tell him all about it, but that was
dreadfully difficult. She remembered his
letter, his remark that they could not have
congratulated her. He must know as soon
as possible that her engagement was not
over, as he thought  that he and Helen
must accept that kindly, or let her alone for
the future.

There is no sense or object in your
staying here alone," said John. "If you
are to rejoin Lady Redcliff when she comes
back, you had much better spend the intervening
time with us. I know it may be
painful  but you must have courage, and
remember that you will be giving great
pleasure to Helen. After all, she is the
nearest friend you have. There will be
nothing actually to annoy you. Come down
with me tomorrow."

T 2

As John talked thus, kindly and benevolently,
he began to fear very much what he
and Helen had feared, and yet declared impossible
 that Theoo in her obstinacy might
imagine herself bound to Gerald Fane still.
For every reason, Helen was wild with distress
and dismay at the idea of such a marriage
for Theoo. She would not trust herself
to write, for she wished to take it for
granted that Gerald Fane's words were final,
and that such a mad dream was given up
for ever. But she insisted on John's going
to London that very day, to see Theoo and
find out the truth, and bring her back with
him. John now found himself in a great
difficulty, for he suspected that the cause
of parting with Lady Redcliff had been a
quarrel on that subject, and he could not
imagine what this foolish girl was going todo
next. Fane was gone ; he knew that for

certain, and that at least was reassuring.
But as the moments went by, and Theoo did
not answer him, but sat there in dreamy
sadness, with her head turned away, he
became more and more uneasy.

*you seem rather short of friends," he
said bluntly at last. 'you may as well tell
me the real state of the case."

'' I should like to," said Theoo. Theoon, after
a pause, she went on : ''I am not alone here,
John. I have Ada Fane with me."

He muttered some exclamation. Theoo
went on with an effort which was only shown
by her suddenly deepening colour.

'' Mr. Fane has gone to Africa, you know.
I shall stay here with her, at any rate till I
hear from him."

There was a pause.

'this is very bad news," said John
solemnly.

'' Tell me, what made you think that
there was any change?" said Theoo. *who
told you  why did you believe that I was
inconstant ? "

It was not, after all, so very difficult to
talk to John, who, with all his sturdiness,
had something of an old woman about
him.

*' It did not cross my mind to use the
word ' inconstant ' about either of you," said
John. '' I thought Fane was quite right, and
was doing a wise thing, and an honourable
thing, when he told me it was all over. If
he had known the circumstances sooner, he
would never have  have thought of it. I
quite believed him. I always thought he
was a good fellow."

*' Thank you," Theoo murmured, with a
faint smile. "Where did you see him .
Please tell me all about it."

She sat looking sad and indifferent while
John gravely told her the whole story. He
spoke very strongly of his own horror, and
Helen's, and Hugh's, at the idea of her being
connected with the man who had treated her
uncle so villainously.

"Of course we all feel," said John, "that
if you had known about that, you would
never have imagined such a thing possible.
The discovery must have been a shock to
you, as it evidently was to him, poor chap !
But now I don't see how you can help
taking the same view that he does. It is
wonderful to me that you should have
quarrelled with your grandmother, which you
evidently have, and rushed back to England
to set up house with his sister. I can't conceive
what you mean by it."

John now spoke with some little irritation,
for he was becoming angry with Theoo. She

seemed to him a perfectly undignified and
wrong-headed person.

'you will all think very badly of me,"
she said. " As for Hugh  he might have
told you something more, something to lower
me quite into the depths. You won't think
me a proper companion for Helen, when I
tell you this  I knew it all along. Hugh told
me, last summer, the story of Uncle Henry's
losses, and when he came to Woodcote in the
autumn  that day you fetched me from Deer-hurst,
do you remember ?  he told me that
Mr. Litton was the man. I minded it very
much at first, but then, later, I knew that
it did not matter to me."

She ended very low, and with a slight
tremor in her voice, while she still sat looking
out of the window. John cleared his throat
once or twice ; he was very much surprised
and rather shocked at what she had just told

him, and he did not quite know what to say
in answer. She went on again in a minute :

'* He wrote to me at Locarno to break it
off, and told me  and about the African plan
too  and I wrote to him at once to tell him
that I had known it all along. Poor grand-mamma
was very angry, and she prevented
my letter from going to the post, but I did
not know that for some days, and I was
waiting for an answer from him. And then I
had a letter from Ada, telling me that he was
gone. So I came here at once, and I have
written to him again from here."

" And what in the world is going to happen
to you, then ? " said John, after a long pause.

I don't know," said Theoo ; and then
she added calmly : '' There is Africa. If he
can't come home, and if he wishes it, I may
go out to him there."

'' Excuse me, Theoo, but I think you have

completely lost your senses," said John very
crossly. " Besides, it's shocking "

Here he was interrupted by the entrance
of Ada, who came in quite innocently, not
knowing that any one was there. John immediately
got up, and very stiffly and gravely
wished them "good-bye." Ada coloured, and
opened her blue eyes wide, perceiving that
she had come in at the wrong moment. Theoo
followed him to the top of the stairs.

'' Give my love to Nell," she said, and she
did not seem to resent his last words at all.

He turned round, and took her hand again
in both his, holding it very tight.

'' Look here, Theoo, this is the long and
short of it," he said ; '' you will have to
choose between your relations and him."

Theoo's eyes fell for a moment ; then she lifted
her head and looked him straight in the face.

I know ; I am very sorry," she said.

'* Good-bye ! but give my love to Nell, all
the same."

After this, for some time, Theoo had very
little more communication with her relations.
John Goodall wrote to say that he would like
to buy Aster, and from the tone of his letter,
Theoo fancied he was not buying the horse
for himself, and suspected that he was only
Hugh's agent in the matter ; but she did not
know this positively till afterwards.

Nell, in her grief and disappointment,
wrote a very indignant letter, saying a great
deal about Uncle Henry, and the past, and
Theoo's forgetfulness of it ; a letter which
hurt Theoo so much, coming from Nell, that
she did not answer it for a long time. Of
Hugh and of her grandmother she neither
saw nor heard anything.

She and Ada led the quietest of lives
together. Sometimes she, at least, felt a

little desolate, for this child of course could not
quite understand her, and the life would have
been a dull one for Ada if she had not loved
Theoo so much that the fact of being with her
was happiness. They had no amusements ; they
had peace, and talked for hours about Gerald, so
that Theoo soon knew as much about his life
as Ada herself did. They went out for long
walks with Wool, who now lived in a kennel of
his own in their kind landlady's backyard.

Ada wrote to Gerald by every mail, but
Theoo would not write to him again ; she had
nothing to say till he answered her first letter.
Two or three short notes came from him,
from Madeira, from St. Helena, from Cape
Town. He was going up the country to
Kimberley as fast as possible.

Through those long, bright, dusty months
of May and June, the only person who came
to see them was Clarence Litton.

Before Gerald left he had made up with
Ada, having explained to her that his evil
designs had been all for her advantage ; and
since then, though she had told him that
Theoo was with her, he had written to ask if
he might call sometimes. He was a good
deal in London now, for Deerhurst was sold
to Mr. Goodall, and Warren had returned
from abroad and gone to South America in
search of new investments.

Clarence thought it likely that he might
follow him out there in the autumn. In the
meanwhile he was on his good behaviour,
and came rather often to see Ada. Though

o

she was no longer dependent on him,
something seemed to have renewed in
his mind the kindness of years ago, and
perhaps he was grateful to Gerald for
keeping their young sister ignorant of his
past disgrace.

He did not often see Theoo, who could
not help avoiding him, but when they met,
they treated each other with grave politeness,
and Clarence gradually began to think
that he admired Theoo more than any one
in the world. He knew, if Ada did not,
what it must have cost her to hold to
Gerald in spite of every one ; and with all
his hardness, he was troubled by the doubt
whether Gerald quite deserved such unselfish
devotion.

Time went thus creeping on until about
the third week in July. Then at last, after
the long weary suspense  so long and so
weary that despairing thoughts began to
haunt Theoo sometimes, her grandmother's
cutting words about Gerald rising up like
spectres to frighten her  one day his answer
came. She spent about half-an-hour alone
with it, for it decided her fate in life. Then

she took it to the drawing-room, where she
had left Ada, saying in a quiet voice, as
she walked into the room :

'' I have got my letter, dear, and I am
going out to him at once."

Then she saw that Clarence was there
too, and flushed a little, but nobody's presence
could affect her much. He looked up at her
startled, not more by her words than by the
sudden brilliance of her beauty as she stood
there. The worn, dreamy look of suspense
was gone, burnt away, as it seemed, by a
flame of happy enthusiasm.

'' Oh, Theoo, not really ! " cried Ada with
tears, as she went and put her arms round
her friend.

Do you think you are doing a wise
thing ? " said Clarence gravely after a moment.


*' I don't know," she said, meeting his

eyes for the first time with a perfectly frank,,
sweet smile ; and her look and tone, foolish
Theoo ! added very distinctly, '' I don't
care !

END OF VOL. II.

CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS.

-fi "\

Gerald. A novel

St fr,

-3".'"'''-!

3987950

c

< c cc C -

r r c cc:

,<: cc cero
'pc.cc.c:c-c::.

 e<c cc"'c: . 

ffl

 c cc v<r< <occ < cc c

:: <r re ccaic c

< ,<, :C;c<3CLCc;c<I 

-' -- - <  ' c:jc:<c  c < cc <c:<i /c c  
-' c<<-lire ccccc"' 

r .CC cc:cc<.c cc c<: 4[.

m**-~

> > >-

3 :

r

.-2>:>r3P>'

>"y'>

i

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

y-3

VOL. Il

I SAY NO." By Wilkie Collins.
THE LOVER'S CREED. By Mrs. Cashel Holy.
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST. By Sarah Tatler.
BY MEAD AND STREAM. By Charles Gibbon.
FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan.
"THE WEARING OF THE GREEN." By Basil.
GERALD. By Eleanor C. Price.
PHILISTIA By Cecil Power.

Parnell's FOLLY. By J. T. Tunbridge. (2 vols.)
LONDON: CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

ELEANOR C. PRICE

Author of" Vaienthta," "Mrs. Lancaster Rival" "The Foreigners" etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Toulon

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the Rii/t' of Translation ji 7r.<:erz'Cif]

V. 3 (5

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

PAGE

A TRUE LOVER . . . . . . . I

CHAPTER XXIX.

AT SEA 21

CHAPTER XXX.

THE OLD DUTCH HOUSE 45

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE JOURNEY 66

CHAPTER XXXII.

AT THE FIELDS 96

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Diamond-DIGGING 121

CHAPTER XXXIV.

THE EXPEDITION ,,,,,., I4Q

CHAPTER XXXV.

PAGE

FAMILY COUNCILS 1 63

CHAPTER XXXVI

DARKNESS IN SUNSHINE 187

CHAPTER Xxxvi.

BROUGHT HOME 214

CHAPTER XXXVHL

ROSES 236

CHAPTER XXXIX.
BOB-253

CHAPTER XL.

THE OLD FAIRY 269

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A TRUE LOVER.

Clarence Litton, though not himself renowned
for unselfishness, thought that his
brother was doing a selfish and unreasonable,
as well as an absurd thing, in asking Theoo
to go out to him. He was one of those
practical men who know everything ; he
knew all the difficulties in the way, all the
hardships that Theoo would have to go
through ; he knew that if she carried out
her romantic plan of starting off at once,
she would arrive at the very worst time of

VOL. HI. B

year ; and he was angry with Gerald for
not considering these things. He talked to
Theoo as much as he dared, and strongly
advised her at least to wait a few months ;
but he soon saw that he might as well talk
to the wind that was shaking the lilac-bushes,
and after that he said no more. He shrugged
his shoulders, and reflected that he was not
responsible for the scrapes into which these
foolish creatures would no doubt run themselves.
If he had not liked and admired
Theoo, he would not even have troubled himself,
as he did, to write a scolding to Gerald.
This would be much too late to do any good,
but was a little salve to his conscience,
for he knew it was originally his fault that
Gerald had gone to Africa at all.

Even Ada, who thought him perfect, was
surprised that Gerald should have asked Theoo
to go out to him. She could not understand

the violent reaction which had almost driven
the young fellow out of his senses, when,
after a journey more fatiguing than anything
he had ever gone through in his life,
he found Theoo's letter waiting for him at
Kimberley, the mail having passed him and
arrived a few days before. Something in
her letter, something she had said about
separation, made him think that she would
come if he asked her. He had come outwith
the notion that he could never live in
England again. Then, if they still belonged
to each other, if she cared for him in spite
of the disgrace, what was the use of waiting
? Life here without her had seemed
terribly hopeless before ; it seemed impossible
now. He had seen enough already,
among the men he had met  enough of
their temptations and their wrecked lives,
to make him dread and doubt the future,

B 2

unless she would come and be his guardian-angel.


'' I can't live without her," Gerald argued ;
'rand if she cares for me as much as I do
for her, she will come."

And so he did that selfish thing, though
he hated the country, and the people, and
all the surroundings, and knew that they must
be more repulsive to her than to him  he
told her that he would not wait for an answer
to his letter, but would go down to Cape
Town and meet the first mail-steamer that
left England after she received it  '' Just
on the chance of your coming to me, my
darling."

So that Theoo had only one week to makeup
her mind, and get her outfit, and say
good-bye" to everything she cared for in
England, for her departure was to be as
sudden as Gerald's own.

Making up her mind was not a long affair,
for she did that while she read his letter.

Then she had turned to Clarence Litton,
and said very sweetly :

I shall have a great many things to do.
Will you help me . "

"With pleasure," said Clarence. ''I wish
I could escort you out. But of course you will
take your maid '. "

I don't want her to go, poor thing ! but
she says she will," said Theoo.

Combe had absolutely refused to be left
behind, and as it was impossible to go alone,
Theoo had consented to take her.

In that week there was no time to think,
or talk, or do anything but prepare for that
long journey with such a strange end to it.

Clarence was very uneasy, for he thought
that this girl did not the least understand
what she was doing, but he made no more

remonstrances, and devoted himself to her
service with all the wit and experience he
had  and these were not small. He took
her passage in the steamer, going on board
himself to arrange everything for her ; he
thought of everything that she and Combe
could possibly want on the voyage, and made
Theoo laugh by the lists of things he insisted
on ordering.

Theoo herself was thinking a great deal
of Ada, and very little of her own wants.
After she had paid a visit to her bankers,
and asked them, much to their surprise, to
transfer all her money to a bank at Kimberley,
she became quite unpractical as regarded
herself.

Clarence Litton and Combe  a strange
pair of workers  arranged all the luggage
as they thought best, and Clarence proposed
to himself, though not yet to her, to

take her down to Southampton and see her
off.

The packet sailed from Southampton on
Thursday. The weather was very hot, and
Ada, who had been quite miserable since
Gerald's letter came, and had shared with
Combe all sorts of sad forebodings, which
she hid from Theoo, had cried herself on
Tuesday into a helpless headache. It was
their last day together, for Theoo was going
to take her to Mrs. Keene's on Wednesday,
and leave her there, before she went down
to Southampton.

The child lay on the sofa in the hot,
oppressive afternoon, her face buried in the
cushions, with a sob breaking out sometimes.
Theoo, who had tried in vain to
comfort her, was now writing a letter to
Lady Redcliff ; she had written her other
letters the day before  one to Nell, one

to Hugh. This time last year they had
been her nearest and dearest, and she had
been fretting her Hfe away with her grandmother
in the Square. Now she had written
to them both to tell them how they had
really lost her  a short, gentle answer
to that letter of Nell's which had hurt her
so, a still shorter note to Hugh, just telling
him what she was going to do, without
any allusion of any kind to the past,
and adding at the end, with all her old
faith in Hush, 'will you take care of
Wool ? I am leaving him with these people
for the present. Tell him not to forget
me."

Theoo had not written to her Grandmother
; they had had no communication
since they parted at Locarno ; but that
Tuesday morning she had gone alone to
the Square, and asked a strange manservant

if Lady Redcllff would see her.
The answer was real pain. No, Lady
Redcliff could not see Miss Meynell. The
man looked curiously at her as she turned
away with her air of fine scorn ; but Theoo's
heart felt cold and heavy, in spite of her
stately looks, and she had spent half the
afternoon in composing a letter to her grandmother.


She was very sad and tired that afternoon
; the week of hurry and intense excitement
was telling upon her. Ada's grief
weighed down her spirits ; the world was
noisy, and dusty, and intensely hot ; the
rooms were in a state of dismal untidiness
after her packing and Ada's. She sat at
the table, bending and frowning over her
letter ; she had pushed her long white fingers
through her hair, pressing it back from
her forehead, on which the blue veins

showed how tired she was. There were
dark stains under her eyes, her face was
thinner than it used to be ; she was carelessly
dressed, for in the wild hurry of that week
Combe had had no time to bestow on her
mistress.

The fat little landlady opened the door,
announcing " Captain North," and this was
how Hugh saw his beautiful cousin. That
day, in the winter, how different she had
looked ; soft, calm, blooming, noble, when
her cruel hardness had crushed all his
hopes.

She started violently, and almost screamed,
when she heard his name. Ada sprang up
from the sofa, and with red eyes and cheeks
flew out of the room ; and Hugh stood still
in the midst of all the confusion, in a sort
of dismay, facing Theoo, while the landlady
shut the doo*- behind him.

*' Shall I go away ? " he said in a low voice,
as he and Theoo looked at each other. " I
don't want to bore you, Theoo."

She stood for a moment quite still, without
answering him, only looking at him, and
seeing and feeling his sadness, his perfect
constancy.

*' Oh, Hugh ! " she said at last, breathlessly,
for all the old days were coming
back, the happy years long vanished, when
she was a girl, and he was her dear elder
brother, always patient, and strong, and
kind. He was different from everybody
else, dear Hugh ; his friendship was worth
more, almost, than anything in the world ;
and for the moment Theoo could forget how
he had spoilt it, and was so glad, so sorry
to see him again, that she hid her face in
her hands, forgetting all her dignity, and
sobbed like a child.

' Don't, my dear ! " said Hugh under his
breath.

He made a quick step forward, standing
near her at the end of the table ; she had
sat down again, still hiding her face, and
struggling to control herself.

Hugh was very white, and it is possible
that there were tears in his eyes too, as he
stood there looking at her.

*' I never meant to distress you like this,'
he said, as she became a little calmer.
'' What is it ?  what is troubling you ? I
only want to be of use to you, if you'll let
me, Theoo. I know you have made up your
mind."

His low, grave tones were very soothing.
Theoo held out one hand to him, still hiding
her eyes with the other. He took it after
an instant's hesitation, pressed it gently,
and let it go. Then he walked across to

the window, and stood there silently for
three or four minutes, till at last she spoke
to him.

"Come here  come and sit down," she
said. *' It Is very kind of you."

Hugh took a chair, and sat down a few
yards from her. He looked pale and quiet,
his fair moustache and his heavy eyelids
drooping ; the perfection of his dress was In
odd contrast with all that surrounded him ;
he looked down at his hat and stick, and
played with them a little.

Whatever his Intentions might have been,
this was a moment that tried the honesty of
them, but If there was any struggle In his
mind, nobody could see it.

'' I thought you might like me to take
Wool back to-day," he said. *' In that case
he won't suffer any loneliness, though I
don't know how he is to understand what

has happened, poor old boy ! But you
are quite right not to think of taking him
with you. He would be a bore, besides
which, the climate would probably kill
him."

'' I never thought of it," said Theoo.
'' Thank you very much."

She had never felt more confused and
miserable. If Hugh had been reproachful,
or had shown any violent feeling in anyway,
she could have been proud, and scornful,
and angry. As it was, he seemed to be
heaping coals of fire on her head. After
the first agitation at seeing him, she began
to wish that he had not come ; but presently
she withdrew that wish, for every moment it
became easier to talk to him. He was so
wonderfully considerate and calm ; he began
asking a few little insignificant questions
about her plans, the time she meant to leave

London, the time the ship sailed, and then
he said, looking rather more intently at his
hat:

''If you don't mind, I should be very
glad if you would let me see you off, unless
you have made some other arrangement."

'thank you  oh no; I shall be very
glad," said Theoo, gendy. "Combe is going
with me, you know."

Hugh nodded.

Does Lady Redcliff " he began.

Grandmamma is very angry with me ;
she won't see me," said Theoo, her voice
trembling a little. " I was writing to her when
you came in."

Well " said Hugh ; and then, after

a pause, he went on : " Do you know that
you are going out at the worst time of
year ? The spring out there is most unhealthy."


" Yes, I have been told so," she answered,
"but I don't think I am a feverish person."


'' I should be rather doubtful about that,"
said Hugh. '' I hope you will take every
precaution. Have you been led to think that
Kimberley is a nice place ? "

I have not heard much about it. No, I
suppose not."

*' I have known men who have been
there," said Hugh gloomily, " and they agreed
in describing it as a sort of Sodom and
Gomorrah."

I hope it is not so bad as that," said
Theoo. " Don't frighten me, and don't bother
yourself about me, Hugh. Don't you know
that I have a great deal of strength in reserve,
and that all my life I have longed for some
real adventures ? Travelling in that country
must really be great fun. Sleeping out of

doors, for instance, and waking up to see the
stars shining."

You ! " he said, with an almost angry-emphasis
; but then he looked up, and met a
smile which seemed to bring all the old times
back again.

Theoo was much more like herself now ;
the high spirit of her girlhood had come
back suddenly, and was lighting up her pale
face. Hugh gave a quick sigh, and looked
down again.

*' You must come out some day, and spend
your leave with us," she said, and then she
knew she was cruel.

He shook his head.

"You are most kind," he said; 'but I
like civilisation." Then he added : ' All your
relations have been in a dreadful state of mind
for months, including myself, Theoo."

I am glad one of them has come to

VOL. III. c

wish me good-bye," she said. "Yes, John
told me, one day when he was here, that I
must choose between them and  and Nell
agrees with him, and I thought you did too."

" John is an ass  I mean he is not my
superior officer," said Hugh hastily. 'ras
for me, I can't afford to lose you altogether,
though I did think, not long ago, that I wished
never to see you again. And so now I want
to ask you a great favour, Theoo. Will you
grant it ? "

*'I will," said Theoo.

Her ready answer pleased him very much ;
this trust in him was some slight reward for
the long, hard battle in which he had come
off conqueror.

** Thank you, my dear," he said in his
gravest manner. " I want you to forget last
winter, and to let everything be now as if
it had never been."

'every well, Hugh; thank you, I will,"
she answered very softly, and after a pause
she went on : "I wish I had written to you
sooner."

So do I," said Hugh, " for I might
have done a great many things for you,
and I am afraid you have tired yourself
dreadfully  a bad preparation for your start.
Now tell me a little more about your
arrangements."

Theoore he stayed for hours, and Theoo,
keeping her word to him, and doing what
he wished without any afterthought, told him
everything, and listened meekly to a great
deal of good advice. Hugh behaved like a
hero ; he bore her mention of Clarence Litton
with calm indifference, and when Clarence
actually interrupted them by coming into the
room, his manner to him was not absolutely
crushing. Clarence went away at once to

C 2

find Ada, and soon after this Hugh said that
he must go.

He took both Theoo's hands, and bent
over her, and kissed her gently on the forehead,
as he used to do when she was a girl.

'' Do you remember something you promised
me," he said, " the evening before
Helen was married . "

"Yes, I have thought of it," said Theoo ;
'' but there are promises one can't keep."

Don't make any more of that kind,"
said Hugh. 'then I shall meet you tomorrow
at Waterloo, and in the meanwhile
where is Mr. Wool . "

AT SEA.

When Theoo had time to think, when she was
left alone on board the mail-steamer at Southampton,
when the bell had rung, and Hugh's
tall figure had disappeared among the crowd,
she was seized with a terrible loneliness. All
the old peaceful trust in Hugh had come
back within the last two days, brought to life
again by his own generous unselfishness.
She knew that he loved her now, just as he
did in the winter, when he asked her to
marry him ; she knew, when she thought
about it quietly, that he always would love

her just the same ; but she was not angry
with him now, only sad and sorry. She
knew now that this love was of a high kind,
worthy of that lover who said :

For I love you so,
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
If thinking on me then should make you woe.

This is possible, but it is very rare, and
seldom understood or rewarded in this life.

Theoo understood it better than many
women do, and perhaps Gerald, for whom
she was giving up everything, would hardly
have approved of the tears that dimmed her
eyes as she looked back at England, and
thought regretfully and tenderly of Hugh.
He had made her promise that she would
write to him, and would tell him if there
was anything in the world that he could do
for her.

Theoo had an instinctive feeling that she

would break this last promise, and that
Hugh's help, dear and valuable as it must
always be, would be the last thing she would
ask for in future.

Their parting had been very friendly
and grave ; both faces were sad. Hugh had
not tormented her with a word of remonstrance
; he had inspected her cabin, had
talked to the captain, had hardly, to outward
eyes, shown as much feeling as her brother
would have shown under such circumstances.

At the last moment he discovered some
slight acquaintances of his own among the
passengers  a Colonel and Mrs. Forester, who
were going back to an appointment at Cape
Town. In his gravest, most indifferent
manner, Hugh introduced his cousin to these
people, who looked at her kindly ; but Theoo
was rather vexed and bored by the introduction
; she had had a fancy for being

quite alone, and dreaming, and watching the
sea, all the way out to Cape Town.

Colonel Forester, a good-humoured, middle-aged
man, who had known Hugh's father
pretty well some years before, was a little
puzzled by the mystery of this girl's going
out alone. He seized Hugh just as he was
leaving the ship.

Your cousin is of course going to some
friends at the Cape ? " he said. " We can't
be of any use out there ? "

'' Thank you," said Hugh with a curious
coldness of look and manner ; '* I can hardly
answer. There is only one person  in fact,
my cousin is going out to be married. I
suppose he will meet her."

*' Oh, very well," said Colonel Forester.
'' Then of course he will have made all arrangements.
Do I know him, I wonder ? "

"That is not likely," said Hugh. "He

went out last spring to the Diamond Fields.
His name is Fane."

'* You astonish me ! " said Colonel Forester.

'miss Meynell surely But I beg your

pardon," as Hugh turned a little paler, and
made a movement to go ; "I only meant to
say that Mrs. Forester and I will be very
glad if we can be of any use."

Thank you, Colonel Forester. I shall
be most grateful," said Hugh ; and then he
shook hands with the Colonel, and went
gravely on shore.

Colonel Forester went back to his wife
and told her the explanation of the mystery,
adding that this marriage was plainly against
the wish of the young lady's relations.

'' You must be kind to the poor girl," said
the Colonel, in his eager manner. " This
Diamond Fields fellow will be marrying her
from St. George's Hotel, or something of

that sort. She must be married from our
house."

Mrs. Forester was very gentle, rather shy,
and full of that active goodness which soldiers'
wives so often have In perfection. She had
lost all her children when they were little, and
this, and the sweetness of her brown eyes, and
the clearness of her wits, may have explained
the fact that she ruled the Colonel with an
undisputed sway. She had also ruled his
regiment when he had been attached to
one.

On this occasion she did not quite agree
with him.

*' Don't say anything about that yet," she
said. '' The Meynells are not a very nice
family ; and as to my being kind to this girl,
she looks so cold and stiff that I am afraid
of her. I don't think she wants me, Arthur,
really."

How can a girl be going out alone,
and not want you ? " asked Colonel Forester.

His wife laughed and shook her head.

For the first few days Theoo was very
much alone, and seemed to wish to be so.
Her looks and ways kept people at a distance ;
the only person who talked to her much was
Colonel Forester, who admired her, and took
a great interest in her, and was a good-natured
chatterton besides. His friendship with her
advanced much faster than his wife's. Mrs.
Forester did not quite like the idea of a
girl of good family starting off in this
adventurous manner against the wish of her
friends ; she was also puzzled by the fact
that Theoo was making a sort of friendship
with a very odd little woman, who emerged
from her cabin after two or three days, and
walked feebly about on deck, holding Theoo's
arm. She was dressed very smartly, and

had a black, untidy fringe hanging over her
forehead ; she went off into silly fits of
laughter, and sometimes had a little dark
baby in her arms, and a second-rate young
man standing by her side ; but this young
man was generally playing cards, or amusing
himself In some way apart from his wife.
Mrs. Forester had several friends on board,
and neither she nor any of them thought
these people at all fit to speak to. She
would not have noticed them among the
varied crowd of passengers, unless they had
appealed to her kindness in some way, but
the sympathy that Theoo showed this little
creature was a strange thing, and attracted
Mrs. Forester's eyes, which, with all their
softness, had a keen power of watching.
Even Colonel Forester was puzzled, and
held a little back from his friend Miss
Meynell, when she sat for a whole evening

beside this woman on deck, under the glorious
stars, and the strange pair of friends talked
in a low voice together, each deeply interested
in what the other was saying.

At last the little woman gathered up her
shawls and went below, and Theoo sat still
where she was, looking out upon the sea.
Some yards away Colonel Forester was
standing behind his wife's chair. They had
been drinking coffee, and talking to some
of their friends, who had now left them ;
the eyes and thoughts of both husband and
wife turned towards Theoo.

'' Now, I shall go and talk to her,"
whispered the Colonel. '' Will you come,
too?"

'suppose I go by myself?" said Mrs]
Forester softly.

That's a capital idea, Fanny. Ask her
to go ashore with us tomorrow."

"We shall see," said Mrs. Forester, and
she moved gently across and joined Theoo.

She sat down, and began talking about
Madeira, where they would arrive the next
day. Theoo talked too, but in such a dreamy
way that Mrs. Forester found it very difficult
to go on with the conversation ; still, in
spite of Theoo's most absent answers, the
soft beauty of her profile, the light and
depth in her eyes when she looked up, the
noble gentleness that seemed to breathe about
her like an atmosphere, all charmed and
attracted Mrs. Forester, so that she felt no
wish to get up and go away.

This is a very remarkable girl," she
thought to herself, and she studied Theoo
through one or two long silences, during
which the other people laughed and talked
in the distance and somebody was singing ;
and through it all the steamer throbbed and

panted, and the water washed gently along
her sides, and she left a long luminous path
over the dark sea In her wake, and the
great stars shone down gloriously.

'' Do you like being at sea ? I suppose
it Is your first long voyage ? " said Mrs.
Forester.

'rit Is lovely," said Theoo. "Yes; I have
only crossed the Channel."

'' I wonder If you have any Idea of
what  what Africa Is like ? " said Mrs.
Forester after a pause.

'' Not much, I suppose," said Theoo,
'* though I have been thinking about It.
But It must be rather free and glorious.
It Is very sad to go out there, meaning to
hate It, like that poor little thing."

Do you mean " began Mrs. Forester.

'that little Mrs. Lee. We are going to
the same place, you know  the Diamond

Fields, and she is so unhappy ; she thinks
it is all so dreadful."

''I am afraid the Fields '' said Mrs.

Forester, and then she stopped herself, for
she did not like to prophesy evil.

'' She is so ill and miserable, and so
anxious about her baby, and I think her
husband is not very nicest' said Theoo. *' I
am very sorry for her."

'you have been very kind to her," said
Mrs. Forester ; '' but she laughs a good deal ;
is she really so miserable ? "

''Oh, she is young; she must laugh
sometimes. I have tried to comfort her.
I have told her that I shall be there too,
and that I will try to help her," said Theoo,
gravely.

Mrs. Forester sighed.

You will find a good many unhappy
women there*' she said; "the men are nota

nice set. And don't you know anybody 
have you no friends at all out there ? You
won't like me to say it, it sounds cold and
worldly, but you must not have that sort of
people for your friends. I suppose, though,
Mr. Fane has been there already, and he will
know."

"Yes; but it can't be quite Hke England,
can it ? " said Theoo gently.

'' It will not be at all like England, my
dear  the England you belong to. I am
afraid, after a time, you won't like it
very much. Are you likely to stay there
long ? "

Oh yes, I think so, for a great many
years," said Theoo.

Mrs. Forester asked a few little questions,
and Theoo told her a great deal about herself
and Gerald, and their prospects as far as
she knew them. She suddenly discovered

VOL. HI.

that It was comforting to talk peacefully
under the stars to this kind woman, whose
manner was so gentle and soft, and who
seemed to understand all her feelings so
well. For Mrs. Forester had a charming
way of listening and of sympathising when
she had got over her first little shyness with
a person she did not know. Every word
that Theoo said interested her more deeply
in this girl, who was going out in such
faith and confidence to a life she could not
possibly realise, and trying to support other
wayfarers as she went along. To think that
she knew no one  absolutely no one  in
that great, terrible continent ; that everything
depended for her on the arrangements of
one young man  her lover, certainly, but did
that ensure the perfect thoughtfulness needed
by a romantic, refined girl like this ? Mrs.
Forester's heart was touched ; all the feelings

of a mother, so long buried under silent
grief, woke up into life again as she sat
beside Theoo, and thought, '' This might have
been my child." At last, when they had
talked for a long time, she laid her hand on
Theoo's, and said :

'' My dear, when we reach Cape Town
you must let me take you to my house. You
must belong to me till I give you up to
Mr. Fane."

" Oh, thank you ! What makes you so
good to me ? " said Theoo, and, with a sudden
impulse, she stooped, and touched Mrs.
Forester's pretty soft hand with her lips.
'' But he may have arranged something
already," she added, hesitating and blushing.

'* He is not likely to have made a
better arrangement than mine," said Mrs.
Forester.

The next morning they anchored off

D 2

Madeira, and Theoo went ashore with the
Foresters and some of their friends, She was
quite happy now ; the sadness, the regrets, the
anxieties of England were fading in the
distance, and Gerald was waiting for her not
so very far off, in a country perhaps as beautiful
as this, where the sun shone everlastingly,
and the brown-faced people laughed gaily,
and flowers that she had never dreamed of
grew in glorious gardens, green paradises
among the ridges of red rock. Colonel
Forester was charmed with her enthusiasm.
The blue sea danced and sparkled, rocking
the little red and green boats that darted over
It ; the brown divers, with their white teeth
and flashing eyes, splashed and laughed and
screamed about the ship In a storm of silver
spray. On shore the waves broke gently at
the foot of great brown rocks, garlanded above
with green and scarlet. The narrow, stony

streets, with their deep black shadows and
brilliant lights, the market loaded with fruit,
the dark-eyed people with their bright handkerchiefs,
made Theoo think of Italy. She
stayed on shore all day, and Colonel Forester
went about with her everywhere, showing her
his favourite views. One was only more
enchanting than another.

It seemed strange to be off again, but
Theoo was much happier after that landing
at Madeira. Her kindness to Mrs. Lee
was not at all affected by her new friendship
with Mrs. Forester, who had entirely
taken possession of her now. It was a new
thing in Theoo's life to have a woman like
this for her friend, who had been trained by
trouble, who knew the world without being
worldly, and whose warm, affectionate, unselfish
nature was made strong and beautiful
by religion. In those long days and evenings

they had many talks, and Mrs. Forester soon
knew all Theoo's history, and, suspecting that
Gerald Fane was not quite her equal, thought
of giving her up to him with pain.

And so they sailed on, past Teneriffe, half-hidden
in clouds, over a sea brilliant by day,
and crowded with flying-fish, phosphorescent
at night under the moon and the deep blue
sky. They went on shore again at St
Helena, and climbed about the stern old
rock till they were tired.

After that Cape Town seemed to be very
near, and the old dreaminess came over Theoo
again. She roused herself, however, and spent
more time than ever in comforting Mrs. Lee,
whose husband had proved more and more
on the voyage what a worthless fellow he was.
This poor little thing dreaded the future so
much, that she could not speak of it without
tears. Theoo tried hard to make her look on

the bright side of things, listening patiently
to her complaints, and promising to be her
friend always ; and Mrs. Forester could not
remonstrate any more.

As the days went on, she and her husband
became more and more anxious to see Gerald
Fane, and to convince themselves that he
would make his wife happy. They both
doubted it, they could hardly tell why, for
Theoo's confidence in him was as deep as her
love. She was almost silent on the subject,
but Mrs. Forester knew that very well.

*the impudence, though, of asking a girl
like that to go to the Fields ! " was Colonel
Forester's constant theme.

** I would have gone there with you,
Arthur," said his wife.

*' You would not have been allowed, my
dear," said the Colonel. " Women like you
and Miss Meynell are very generous creatures.

and their goodness ought not to be taken
advantage of."

When you were young," said Mrs.
Forester, '' I suspect you would have been of
a different opinion."

** Never," said the Colonel. *' I was
never so conceited, to begin with. I never
thought you would feel hardships and discomforts
less because you were married tome."


Mrs. Forester laughed.

*' I don't suppose I should," said she.
*' Miss Meynell is made of finer stuff She
will bear anything for the sake of that young
man. Her courage won't fail."

Her health will, and her spirit, too, Intime,"
said the Colonel. '* I can't bear the
thought of that young man."

At last the Twelve Apostles rose out of
the sea, and Table Mountain, dark and stern,

and a white town lying under the hills, the
docks, and masts, and trees, all In the clear
brilliant air of a southern morning. It was
very early when they entered the docks, and
the sun shone on Theoo's first sight of her
new country. She and Mrs. Forester were
standing on deck In all the confusion, wrapped
in shawls, for the morning was cold ; in that
part of the world It was spring.

Theoo's eyes were fixed on the long road
beyond the docks, crowded with Malay carts,
and with people of every complexion, dressed
in all sorts of gay colours. Though she
looked, she did not see much ; she was
dreaming, hardly realising that this was Cape
Town, hardly expecting, in spite of all, to
see Gerald really.

Mrs. Forester was looking for him in a
much more wakeful fashion. It was she,
not Theoo, who saw a tall young man come

on board, and make his way quietly through
the crowd on deck, and approach them gently,
with his eyes fixed on Theoo, who did not see
him.

It was indeed the story of the Sleeping
Beauty telling itself over again, as all the
old stories do. There she stood, statuesque
and still, cold, absent, quiet, and a little sad,
as she gazed straight before her.

Mrs. Forester was just going to touch
her, and to point out Gerald, who was within
a few yards of them now, but he came up
too quickly at last, and stood suddenly between
Theoo and her dreams, as he used In the early
days of their acquaintance.

All the absence and the vagueness were
gone then. Mrs. Forester just caught the
one quick glance that she gave Gerald, and
the sudden flush and softening that came
into her face, and then left them together,

and turned away to her husband, who came
up to her just then. She was laughing, and
her eyes were full of tears.

By Jove, Fanny ! " muttered the Colonel,
"you were never so glad to see me''

She took no notice of this accusation.

'' He is a dear fellow, but not very strong,"
she whispered. *' But I like him extremely.
Oh, Arthur, they can't go to the Fields."

And you really are actually come ! " said
Gerald, standing by Theoo, and looking down
into her happy face.

*' Didn't you know ?" she said in a low voice.

*' Did I ? Well, ever since I wrote to
you I've known how awfully selfish I was.
But it's all right now. You won't be sorry
that you came ? "

'' Gerald ! " she said, with the faintest
shade of reproach and sadness ; and there
was no more time to talk then.

For Combe joined her mistress, and Mrs.
Lee struggled up to say '' good-bye," and
giggled horribly In Gerald's face, and then
Theoo remembered that she must introduce
him to the Foresters, and In all the confusion
of going on shore the impatient fellow began
to think that he would never have her to
himself after all.

THE OLD DUTCH HOUSE.

Colonel and Mrs. Forester had a pleasant
little English-looking house with a verandah,
looking out on fresh-leaved oak-trees. All
the front was clustered over with early roses,
and there were aloes and other strange plants
in the garden. To the right, not far away,
towered the great dark wall of Table Mountain.
Here Theoo spent her first few days
of Africa. Gerald was with her constantly,
and after the first almost painful excitement
of meeting again, they were both perfect
happy.

Poor Combe was happy, too, In being
on dry land again, and in adding various
things to her mistress's outfit, under Mrs.
Forester's directions ; but she was much
plagued with anxiety about the future, for
Mrs. Lee had poisoned her mind.

Gerald had, of course, made his own
arrangements for his marriage, In case Theoo
really came to him. He had consulted some
friendly people at the Fields and they had
been quite sure she would come. By their
advice he meant to take her to St. George s
Hotel, to get a special license, and be married
at the cathedral in the next day or two ;
the captain of her ship would probably consent
to give her away. So far, these easily-made
plans were knocked on the head by the
intervention of Mrs, Forester ; it had never
struck him that Theoo would have any friends
of her own, and at first he was Inclined to

think the good Foresters a bore ; but these
ungrateful thoughts soon vanished.

His friends at the Fields had done him
one real kindness : they had offered to lend
him a house at Wynberg, that pleasant place
eight miles from Cape Town. Here he and
Theoo could have a fortnight of perfect peace
before they began the weary journey to their
new home.

Mrs. Forester approved highly of this part
of his arrangements. She only wished that
the marriage could have been put off a little
longer, for she had discovered, in her talks
with Theoo, how very slight her knowledge of
Gerald was, and his of her. No wonder,
indeed, that her relations disapproved of her
doings. But it was too late now ; too late
even for delay, when neither of these young
people agreed with her in seeing any reason
for It. Colonel Forester laughed a little at

his wife's anxieties ; he liked Gerald, and was
sure now that everything would go well.

He Is a gentleman. He's not one of
your digger fellows ; she Is not throwing her -
self away," he said consolingly.

'she would never have done that," said
Mrs. Forester. '' I should not be afraid if
they were not going to that savage place. She
is the strongest spirit, Arthur, and that ought
not to be."

"You are a little hard on Kimberley ; they
say it is improving."

Mrs. Forester shook her head ; she would
not be comforted.

Gerald and Theoo were married in the
cathedral at eight o'clock one morning, and
stayed with their friends to the service afterwards.
It was the quietest wedding ; no one
was there but Colonel Forester, his wife, and
the faithful Combe. A young officer came as

Gerald's friend, who had met him accidentally
In Alderney Street, and remembered him In his
army days.

Theoo was not In a dream that morning, as
she had been at Helen's wedding so long ago,
when she woke up to find Gerald looking at
her. She was not the brilliant beauty she had
been then, lovely In satin and flowers, holding
her head very high, and looking out scornfully
upon the world. Things had changed
indeed ; she had gone through a good deal
since then, and she was beginning to know
that life was a subject for patience, not
scorn.

Yet, perhaps, she was more beautiful now ;
a little pale, a little sad, In the plain white
dress she had brought with her, and her sweet
face expressing, more than any other feeling,
a perfect earnestness. There were no half-measures
with Theoo ; she had once given

VOL. ni. E

herself to Gerald, and therefore she belonged
to him, and she had not hesitated to follow his
fortunes. After they were married, he looked
at her anxiously, for In all his happiness he
was almost frightened at what he had done.
She was so beautiful, there was such a proud
grace in her gentleness ; and what sort of life
would she have to lead now ? But she looked
up at him with a light in her eyes which reminded
him of that day In the cloister at
Locarno, and he began to know that in her
less demonstrative way she was as happy as
himself.

Later in the day they drove off in a
cart to Wynberg, Colonel Forester having
undertaken to see that Combe and the luggage
went safely by railway to the same point.
The day was not very hot, though the sun
shone brightly ; Theoo still wore her white
gown, and they were sheltered by the head

of the high two-wheeled cart. Their Malay
driver sat in front, wearing a blue coat and
a great straw hat, like a pyramid.

Her few days in Cape Town had accustomed
Theoo to the sight of Malays and
black people. They, in their lazy picturesqueness,
with white teeth for ever laughing, and
decked out with bright-coloured handkerchiefs,
seemed to belong quite rightly to the
brilliant sunshine and black shadows, the
enervating softness of the air, the gorgeous
fruit and flowers which heaped the market
and the little stalls by the roadside. Everyone
here seemed to be playing at life, playing
at work, not living or working. Gerald said
it would be an awful thing to live at Cape
Town, but Theoo was not so sure. In the
strange mixture of her character there was
something that understood the feeling of the
lotus-eaters, and she was a little tired and

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

languid after the summer just ended, which
was going to begin again for her.

The black people looked up and laughed
at them as they drove along. Other carts
drove by, with jingling bells, and the people
in them put their heads out and laughed
too. They met waggons drawn by a long
team of mules, which plunged and kicked,
and were as lazy as the natives ; long whips
were cracked, and there was a great deal of
shouting. Beyond all the dirt, and noise,
and colour of the town  they had to drive
through the Malay quarter  Table Mountain
rose dark and sombre, with clouds about him,
and the Lion lay watching, and misty mountains
far away looked soft and blue.

Then they drove on through a wind-swept
country, with straggling trees all blown one
way, a sandy tract between the mountains
and the sea. White sails were flashing away

on the blue water, and the waves were
breaking on white sand. Beyond this, they
came to low white villas in shady gardens,
with acanthus growing, and other strange,
solid-looking flowers that Theoo had never
seen. Then on past vineyards, where handsome
Malays kept little fruit-stalls by the
roadside, then through a shady road where
the sunbeams glinted softly through the thick
twigs of budding oak-trees.

At one place they came to a bridge with
a stream far down below, where some Kafirs
with red handkerchiefs on their heads were
beating clothes on stones. Gerald and Theoo
reminded each other of the washerwomen at
Locarno.

'* But I was wretched when I saw those
women, for I hadn't got you then, and now
I have," said Gerald. "So I like this better
than Locarno, and the blackness better than

those good Swiss. Don't you ? Wouldn't
you rather be here ? "

The question hardly seemed to want an
answer.

I don't know why any one should ever
be afraid of Africa," Theoo said presently.

They were both silent, and looked round.
Certainly in no country could the sun shine
and the air breathe more sweetly ; crickets,
if not birds, were singing all along the sides
of the road, which ran now red and sandy
through tall dark pine-trees. Presently this
perfect peace was disturbed by meeting a
Malay fish-cart tearing along the road with
hideous noises on a horn made of seaweed.
As this instrument passed away into
the distance. It was like a fog-horn at sea.

Then came silence again, and presently
they turned Into a shady lane, and then
Into a long, quaint avenue of willows ; then

crossed a bridge over a stream, and stopped
in a wild garden at the foot of a flight
of broad old steps. These led up to the
stoep," a kind of raised terrace or balcony,
in front of an old Dutch house, with white
rough-cast walls, and a roof of thick dark
thatch.

There were flowers everywhere : all along
the stoep stood pots of flowers ; down below,
by the bank of the stream, was a hedge
of blue plumbago ; roses and geraniums, just
coming into flower, grew in wild clumps and
masses all about. And the sun shone over
it all, and everything seemed to lie quietly
basking, while the crickets sang loudly, and
the water flowed with a gentle swirl ; and
Combe, the only creature who was not quite
happy there, came forward from the open
door to receive her mistress.

The bride had kissed her that morning

when she had done dressing her  a difficult
task with eyes blinded by tears.

Theoo knew very well what was poor old
Combe's chief trouble, how she felt that this
African business was her fault, just as much
as Lady Redcliff's. If she had had a little
more courage, a little more faithfulness ! But
all the reproach came from herself, none from
her mistress, who was only more gentle and
considerate than ever.

'' I wish this was home, Theoo, after all,"
Gerald whispered to his wife, as he brought
her up the steps. " The house at the Fields
is very different, you know."

'' Don't talk about it now ; let me love
this," said Theoo.

They went into the hall, with its brown
polished floor and panelling, and then into
the rooms that opened from it on each side,
all cool, quiet, dark, with Venetian shutters

closed. There were flowers on the tables,
on the deep window-seats  everywhere. The
drawing-room was the least attractive room
in the house, for it was furnished in an English
upholsterer's fashion of a few years ago, with
an elegant suite of blue damask ; but the
drawing-room did not affect the happiness of
these people much.

That day began a little idyll in their lives ;
they both believed that nobody had ever had
such a honeymoon before. The wildness, the
remoteness, the newness, the touch of adventure
in the whole thing, the doubts and difficulties
through which they had made their
way to each other ; all this, real as it was,
gave life a wonderful feeling of romance. Of
course they had done a very foolish thing ;
Gerald knew that, when he allowed himself
to think for a moment, for he was more
prudent and less high-spirited than Theoo ;

but she was so calm and fearless about the
future, that he almost ceased to fear it for her,
and the untroubled peace in her eyes made
him too happy to be anxious. After all, they
could, not have lived away from each other.
What did a few little outward hardships
matter, compared with such a heart-break as
that ?

They talked a great deal about the past
and the future as those short sweet days
flew by. It was rather delightful to find that,
after all, they knew so little of each other,
and had such endless discoveries to make.
Every day was more beautiful, more dreamlike,
than the one before it, and every day
there were more flowers, and the sun was
warmer, and they found some new charming
corner about their old house and garden to
waste the hours in. It was only for a fortnight.
Theoo forgot that it must ever end,

giving herself up to the languid charm of
those long afternoons. Gerald was more
restless ; all among those rose thickets he
was haunted by the thought of a barren,
treeless land, with dust-clouds blowing, and
he grudged every minute of that golden time
at Wynberg, which must so soon be left
behind.

They used to sit for hours on the grass
near the stream where the roses grew, and
the blue plumbago hedge looked like a fairy
wall to keep the world out. Then they would
stray on a little further to a delightful sunny
slope where strawberries grew, and they were
quite young enough to care for strawberries.
On more energetic days they would wander
on through a shade of pine-trees, out upon
the flats, where they could see misty mountain-ranges
far away, and the low ground was
covered with wild flowers. Theoo found a

lovely arum growing in a puddle, and dreamed
over It for some minutes before she called
Gerald, who was gathering heaths for her a
few yards away.

At night the Southern Cross and all the
stars shone down upon them as they sat out
on the stoep, and the crickets sang, and the
flowers were sweeter than In the daylight ;
and so time went on till the last evening
came, and they sat there talking about Ada.
Gerald was explaining how he had left
her money enough for a year ; he was a little
surprised to find that Theoo knew as much
about Ada's arrangements as he did himself.

'since last spring," said Theoo, "she
has belonged to me as much as to you,
remember."

I believe that was why  I believe you
like her better than me," said Gerald,
laughing.

** She deserves it more  don't you think
so ? Seriously, though, I think it was a pity
she did not come out with me. The child
can't be very happy left alone at Mrs.
Keene's."

** Well, I don't know," said Gerald, feeling
that he did not particularly want Ada just now.

Theoo looked up with a smile in her eyes.

** You don't know ! " she said. " Selfish,
jealous, grasping ! I know that I should like
to have my dear little Ada, and if Kimberley
is not much worse than this, and if you seem
likely to make your fortune there, we will send
for her in the spring."

*' Not much worse than this ! Dear, you
don't know what you are talking about," said
Gerald dismally. '' You idealise things in a
wonderful way, but that will be beyond your
powers."

*then why are you tired of being here,

and anxious to stop there ? " asked Theoo
quietly.

How can you say so ! " exclaimed Gerald,
astonished.

** Don't I know .- You are beginning to
find it all monotonous  flowers, and strawberries,
and everything. Now, I could stay
here in a dream of perfect peace  till It rains."

It is not monotonous. I hate the thought
of leaving it," said Gerald earnestly. *' I
know I shall never be so happy again. But
it must end, you see ; It's ended now almost ;
and at the other place there's lots of work and
life going on. I'm afraid I'm not lazy by
nature, Theoo. I suppose you are."

*' Never so happy again ! " repeated Theoo
in her low, dreamy voice. "Is that what you
feel '. As for me, I mean to go on being
happier and happier. What does it matter
where one Is, after all . "

Gerald somehow had not any words for an
answer to this.

And do you really think I'm going to
make my fortune ? " he said after a time.

'' Why not ? " said Theoo.

Listen, darling. I'll tell you something.
I don't know whether you will forgive me.
The man who lent us this house  he is a
banker there, you know, and he knows more
about that part of the country than most
people  he told me, just before I started off
to meet you, after I had bought the house
and settled everything, that he believed this
company of ours would turn out a complete
failure. He says it is much too soon to think
of building decent houses at the Fields. In
another twenty years or so, when the railway
has got there, so that the cost of transport
is not quite so enormous, it will be a different
thing, but at present it is a speculation that

wont pay. In fact, he made me very sorry
that I had ever had anything to do with it,
for it is Hke most of Clarence's affairs, you
see  it doesn't stand on its own feet. A
good many people will be taken in, and then
the smash will come. The directors may get
something out of it, or they may not. Now,
you see, Theoo, I have brought you out to
this. I can hold on to this concern, or I
can throw it over, as you please. I don't
want to go back to England ; I don't feel
as if I could now. But, do you see, there
was not time to stop you. If there had been, I
don't know Are you sorry ? "

Gerald told this story in rather a disjointed
manner, with many stops, in a low voice in
the starlight.

Theoo was not sorry. She made him
understand that.

*' No wonder you are restless. Why didn't

you tell me before ? " she said. '' I think
you must throw it over. But what can
you do ? "

"He offered me a temporary clerkship
in the bank," said Gerald, half-ashamed. 'but
of course I must write home first ; I can't
settle anything yet. There is another resource
which might make life worth living at Kimberley.
You will see when you get there."

Diamonds  like Mr. Lee," said Theoo.
*'I don't think I like that, Gerald."

Well, don't let us talk about it any more
now. If you forgive me for bringing you to
such a country and such a life as this, I don't
care about anything else. Do you  do you
really?"

*' You didn't bring me ; I came," whispered
Theoo. " And it is my country and my life,
Gerald."

VOL. III. F

THE JOURNEY.

A FEW years ago, when Mr. and Mrs. Gerald
Fane went up from Cape Town to the
Diamond Fields, only two hundred miles of
the distance could be travelled by railway,
and the whole journey was an affair of about
ten days. Of course the railway journey was
at first very much like others, except that
the train was crowded with noisy, picturesque
Malays. These disappeared by degrees, and
after passing the Pearl, with Its oaks, and
vineyards, and long street of old Dutch
houses, they found themselves slowly climbing,

going deeper and deeper In among the
mountains.

They wound In and out between great
gray rocks like castles, with here and there
a green soft valley, which would be dark
and gloomy, filled with deep blue shadows,
as the sun sank lower, and the rocks and
hills above were bright with gorgeous colour.
Then night seemed to come suddenly, and
the moon shone over the wild, weird, lonely
mountains with an almost golden splendour,
and the train went wriggling in and out of
tunnels, turning sharp corners, with narrow
valleys far below full of mysterious darkness.

Two days of this scenery, grander and
more wonderful than anything Theoo had ever
seen, seemed like a fit beginning for this
journey, which was altogether the most
glorious fun that she had ever experienced.
All the wild spirit of adventure, which had

F 2

had no outlet in England, began to find its
use and its satisfaction here.

The Karoo, the great rocky plain, when
they reached it, was not quite so interesting
as the mountains  bare, rugged, stony, with
scrub bush and dry sand. Sometimes they
passed a group of Kafir huts, with dogs and
children sprawling about together, and women
washing in the pools of a dry river-bed.

At last, on a moonlight evening, they
came to the place where the train stopped
finally, and they were still several days'
journey from home, as they called it.

'now I'm afraid the disagreeable will
begin," said Gerald, as he took Theoo and
Combe out of the little wayside station.

'' No ; you mean the fun," said Theoo,
with delight in her voice.

'' Combe doesn't think so," said Gerald.

And Combe, grasping her bags and baskets,

from which she would not be parted, could
only groan in answer.

She was tired to death, poor Combe !
She could only see the terror and awfulness
of the mountains, the desolation of the plain.
She was afraid of the Kafirs, and thought
the black must come off when they touched
anything ; the discomfort of the inns, the
strangeness of the food, made her feel ill ;
she was sure that neither she nor her mistress
would ever escape alive from this dreadful
country. Every mile further from Cape
Town made her more miserable, for Mrs.
Forester's servants had given her a terrible
account of the Fields. Even the train, that
relic of civilisation, must now be left behind.


If Combe had disliked travelling in Europe,
what was that to this tearing on into savage
lands, as they seemed to her, with no protection

but this wild young man who was
now her master ?

It was a strange scene ; the rough ,
the encampment close by, with
wild black figures moving round the yellow
blaze of fires, or straggling up to the train.
There were lights about the railway, a great
puffing and whistling, a rolling of carts that
came to take the passengers on their way.
Not far off were one or two white houses
with lights glimmering, and ox-waggons out-spanned
in front of them ; but all this was
a little oasis of noise and life in the middle
of a great stretching plain, over which the
moon shone calmly for miles, a world of
perfect stillness, scattered over with rough
bush and heaps of stones, and bounded by
a solemn chain of mountains far away.

The inn was very dirty, very comfortless,
not much more than a canteen, so that it

was with great difficulty they got a room
to themselves ; but they were too happy to
care ; they laughed together and made fun
of it all. After a very rough supper  but
they knew what It was to be hungry, and
did not care for that  they went out for a
stroll by moonlight on the great plain.
It was not actually so fiat as it had looked
from the railway, and a few hundred yards
took them beyond a rising ground, out of
sight of houses, station, railway, Kafir huts,
and every sign of life ; they were alone
together in that silent country, under the
African moon and the stars that she made
pale.

'' I wish it could be all like this. This is
worth living for," said Theoo, as they wandered
slowly on. 'away from all those people 
those passengers, what a noise they made!
All day I have been wishing for something

like this. Oh, Gerald, it is so nice to have
nobody else  you and I, and nobody else in
the world!"

'you don't think it is a dream, do you'*
said Gerald.

I don't care what it is. I only know
it is perfect. How could you run away to
this glorious, beautiful country, and leave me
behind?"

'' Sometimes," Gerald said, " when I was
coming down to meet you, I used to walk
off like this by myself, and wonder if it was
possible that I should ever have you with
me here. It's very hard to believe it now
now that I've got you. Yes, I think it is
rather grand, there is so much more room
than in England ; but it is a dreadful
country too, Theoo, in some ways. Man is
vile on this continent, my dear child, that's
certain."

'* Now I should think It was so easy to be
good here," said Theoo. '' Don't you see, in
this great still world, there is so little between
us and the angels. In England there is hardly
one bit of desert country to look straight up
at the stars. There is no room for anything
one doesn't see. One's thoughts are all tied
down  houses, and servants, and crops, and
fashions, and all the details that people make
such a fuss about. Here they are all nothing.
Life is simple, and grand, and perfect. Gerald,
I think you and I are most gloriously fortunate.
Do you know, it is the sort of thing that I
have dreamed about. If only I had Aster,
and could ride straight away to those hills !
Look at the hills, Gerald  the white light over
there. I think the angels are coming over
them now."

To meet you," said Gerald.

It had indeed a wonderful, spiritual beauty,

that vivid glory of night, which seemed to
tremble on the hills, as if something unearthly
was passing over them. Theoo gazed away
into the distance with dreamy, entranced eyes.
Gerald's arm was round her, and he stood
looking down into her face while she dreamed
and talked in her low, gentle way. Presently
he kissed her, breaking the spell suddenly,
and bringing her back from the hills and the
angels.

Think of me. I want you," he said.

What else am I thinking of ? " said
Theoo.

He made her walk on, and told her about
two horses he had seen at the Fields, which
he meant to buy as soon as they got there.
Theoo was very eager about the horses, and
talked about nothing else, till, after a long
ramble, they came back to the inn, and fellow-passengers,
and dirt, and smells ; but, in

spite of all this, they could not manage to be
miserable.

The next morning they started again on
their journey in quite a new way, which
delighted Theoo more than any experience
she had had yet. Gerald had made acquaintance
with the chief engineer of the line,
who had consented to take them and their
luggage on in open trucks, over some miles
of railway which was not properly made
yet, only laid down in a temporary sort
of way for carrying material. Sitting on
a plank laid across the truck was not
exactly comfortable ; but who, except Combe,
could think of comfort under such circumstances
! The wild excitement was positively
glorious, of rushing through the air
at express speed along a half-made railway
line, with the great open plain stretching
all round, and bushes covered with brilliant

flowers here and there, and the hills pale
blue, shining in the distance. Farther on
they went, tearing through a country of
more trees, with railway camps here and
there, and wild-looking Kafirs in blankets,
staring at the train. They had one long
stoppage in the middle of the day, where
an engine had gone off the line  no wonder !
and a crowd of Kafirs were working
about it lazily, ordered by white men.
Gerald and Theoo wandered away, and sat
down among the rocks a little way off,
watching them. Presently she made him
come down among the tents and talk to
the Kafir women. Some were stalking along
with pails of water on their heads, some
sitting at the hut-doors, playing with their
funny little dark children. They looked
up and laughed, and stared at Theoo as
she walked about among them. They

did not understand her, till she tried to
comfort one poor thing who was sitting
crouched up with a sick baby in her arms.
The soft, soothing words of pity, though
they were English, seemed to belong
somehow to a universal language, and the
woman lifted her sad eyes with a sort of
gratitude.

After that, they climbed into their truck
again, and steamed off in a great hurry,
for the afternoon was closing in. It was
bush country now, dull and lonely, till,
by-and-by, it was lighted up with great
burning clouds of smoke from bush-fires.
Here and there the fires were quite near
the line, and dark figures moved about in
front of them. As night came on, Gerald
made Theoo lie down on the floor of the
truck, and covered her with rugs, for it
was cold; and so through the dusk they

went rushing on to the end of their railway
journey  a funny Httle Dutch hotel,
with waggons and oxen and mules about
it, and railway-works going on, and the
bush looking still more dismal under the
rising moon. After that long, rattling, tearing
day in the open air, they did not want a
moonlight walk, and Theoo's dreams were
not likely to be waking ones. In spite of
the room  in spite of the Dutch bed  in
spite of the noises in the house, she went to
sleep instantly, and slept in perfect peace till
three o'clock in the morning.

Then they were roused by the loud blowing
of a horn, and half-an-hour later, after drinking
hot coffee in the kitchen, they had scrambled
into the cart, and were offanother new kind
of travelling. The cart was covered with
canvas, and fitted up with five or six seats,
one behind the other all facing the horses.

On the box sat the half-caste driver, a wild-looking
fellow, who had enough to do to
manage his team of eight, some horses and
some mules ; beside him were two other men,
one acting as guard, the other carrying the
long whip, which flew out, cracking and
flourishing at the horses' ears ; the luggage
was strapped on behind. Gerald had secured
the seat behind the box, which was the least
cramped, and the easiest to get out of; and so
they started in the morning moonlight, dashing
along through the bush, jolting, bouncing,
plunging, while the three men in front sang
together and the other passengers growled or
joked in the background.

That was a curious journey. They out-spanned
often to change the horses, but very
seldom where the passengers could get proper
rest and food. It was impossible to sleep in
the cart, however tired one might be. If

exhaustion made eyelids drop, and brought
a momentary forgetfulness, some rut or stone,
a tremendous jolt and bump, was sure to
wake one up again. Now and then they
stopped at a little farm or inn by the wayside,
with orange-trees and oleander coming
into flower ; but here two hours' sleep in
some horrid little room was all they had ;
the horn blew, and the coffee was swallowed
scalding, and off again over the great desolate
plains.

Sometimes they came upon a very picturesque
scene  moonlight, perhaps, which
made the wide plain look still more boundlessly
mysterious, and a Kafir ox waggon
out spanned near the road. All the oxen, with
their long horns, lay in a great dark circle ;
near them a fire was burning ; red and yellow
flames and a great waving column of smoke,
rose slowly up against the blue, deep sky,

and the dark figures of the Kafirs sat round
the fire, with their black arms outstretched,
singing wild songs to the moon in their soft
melodious voices.

At every outran Gerald and Theoo wandered
away from the cart, taking their provisions
with them, into the lonely silence of
the veldt. These rambles had a charm of
their own, which made them look back afterwards
on those days of the cart as some
of their happiest days. There were not many
flowers to be found, for this is a barren
country  ice-plants, and iris, and among the
bush a shrub with bright red flowers, a sort
of azalea ; most of the wealth and luxury of
wild flowers had been left behind near Cape
Town.

One evening, when it was getting dark 
it is dark very early there  they had a long,
delightful rest near a pool, with frogs ringing

V;)L. TIT. G

their bells, and crickets keeping up a wonderful
concert in the bushes. They had a rug
with them, and a heap of stones to lean
against, and presently Gerald went to sleep
there in the twilight, and Theoo sat dreaming
and thinking about last year, and London,
and her grandmother, and the wonderful way
in which her life had changed, so that now
she was married, and in Africa, and  she told
herself, as she turned her head a little, and
looked smiling at Gerald  the happiest woman
in the world.

The most civilised place they stopped at
in this journey was Beaufort, where there
really was a little refreshing rest to be had,
though only from late in the evening till two
in the morning ; but it comforted poor Combe
especially, to see gardens and trees once
more, and to hear the sound of running
water. Then on again, and away over the

bare country. Outspans were very frequent, for
the team was poor and the road was bad ; but
though these where waste of time, and generally
happened where there was no chance of food
or sleep, they were the hours of the day
that Gerald and Theoo enjoyed most. Theooir
companions In the cart were of a rough
kind  Dutch, Germans, Jews, men and women
going like themselves to the Fields, and, like
themselves, human beings  but this was the
only point of contact. It was always a relief
to get away from their grumbling and their
coarse jokes, only less repulsive than their
politeness.

One night there really was an adventure.
They had been getting on very slowly all
day, had had only one meal, and when night
fell they were still some miles short of the
farm where they hoped for supper and a
few hours' rest. The cart came to a stand

2

still In the middle of the veldt ; the horses
were taken out and fed for the night, for
they could go no farther, and the passengers
were Informed that they must sleep In the
cart or nowhere. Combe resigned herself
to her fate ; she had made a little friendship
with a fat German woman, who was a stranger
and unhappy, like herself. Wedged In
between this woman and the side of the
cart, Combe had reached such a pitch of
resignation that she was fairly contented.
Her master and mistress had wandered away
by themselves, as their manner was. It
might be necessary to come back presently
and sleep In the cart, but a little peace and
fresh air and loneliness must be had first,
so they went off together In the moonlight
with rugs and biscuits, to look for these
in the great blue plain. They sat down
under the shelter of a bush. Far off they

could see the fire that the driver and his
friends had Halted, where they were boiHng
their kettle ; the voices, and the crackling of
the wood, came softened by distance through
the quiet air.

I want to stay here all night, Gerald,"
said Theoo. " We can't go back to the cart ;
those Jew men are too horrid."

'* What, here, out of doors ? " said Gerald.
*' No, I can't let you. It will be too cold."

** But do you know that all my life I
have longed to sleep out of doors } And
I may never have another opportunity.
Before I left London, I told Hugh how
much I should like it, and he was shocked
but he is so very civilised, dear old
fellow ! Soldiers must do those things,
though."

'' They don't like it, and they don't think
it proper for ladies," said Gerald. " There

are very few people like you, besides,
thoroughly right-down romantic  liking the
real thing as much as the idea. The way
you have gone through this journey is wonderful
to me. Yes, Captain North would

never But you are not miserable, after

all ! "

"How silly you are!" said Theoo softly.

She knew that there was always a little
bitterness in Gerald's thoughts of Hugh. It
was not to be wondered at, perhaps ; but
Theoo meant it to be driven quite away intime.
These two should be friends some
day, she was resolved ; at present that end
seemed a long way off

'' I will not spend the night in that cart,"

she said. *' But to satisfy you, dear I

see a house."

She had been gazing for some minutes
across the plain, which was like an enchanted

vision, lit up with the glory of the
moon. Not very far off there seemed to
be a dip in the ground, and beyond that
there were trees, and certainly among them
there was a faint white glimmer, where walls
and windows might be. Theoo stood up, and
shading her eyes with her hand, as if in
the sunshine, looked long and earnestly at
this oasis in the plain.

'' Yes, it is a house," she said. '* Come,
let us go and ask them to take us in."

I don't know what to make of it," said
Gerald. ''If it was a likely place at all, we
should have out spanned there. I'll go and ask
Tom the meaning of it."

No, no ; let us go and knock at the door,"
said Theoo ; so Gerald threw the rugs over
his arm, and they set off across the veldt.
It was a rough, scrambling walk ; they had
to cross a suit, a dry river-bed, among heaps

of Stones, and then to climb up its steep bank
on the other side ; and then they were soon
close upon the trees and the house, a poor-looking
little building, with one or two sheds
about it, all very bare, with an iron roof that
glittered in the moonlight, and blue gum-trees
and orange-trees growing by the door.
All was very still ; there was not a sound of
life, not an animal about the place, except a
dog that barked and growled inside when
Gerald knocked at the door. He knocked for
some minutes perseveringly, for he thought
that even the floor of a room would be better
for Theoo than the cramped cart, or the open
veldt at this time of the year.

*what do you want?" said a man's voice
suddenly inside the door.

It was a pleasant voice, with a good
English accent.

'' I want a night's lodging for my wife and

myself, if you can kindly give it us," said
Gerald.

'' Where do you come from, and where are
you going ? "

'' From Cape Town, and we are going to
Kimberley. We have out spanned down there
across the suit, and the cart is a bad place
to sleep in. You are an Englishman ; you will
help us, won't you ? "

'' Sleep out in the veldt ; better people
than you have done it," said the man more
roughly.

'' It's rather cold," said Gerald, He looked
laughing at Theoo ; it was impossible to help
it ; they were so like beggars at this inhospitable
door.

'' Go and be stifled, or go and be frozen,
whichever you please ! " said the man. " I
won't forward you on your road to Kimberley.
Do you know what will happen to you there ? "

"What do you suppose will happen tous
? " said Gerald.

'you will lose everything you have, your
children will die, your wife will take to
drinking, you will follow her example, and
by-and-by she will sober you by going out
of her mind. Don't say you have had no
warning."

He raised his voice, so that it rang out
angrily. The effect of the words were strange
and awful in that lonely place, where they
could not see the speaker, and everything
round them was silent and still. It was like
one of those terrible voices that used to be
heard in the desert, as legends tell us  voices
of evil spirits, driving lonely travellers mad
with fright. Gerald and Theoo stood therein
the shadows, while the moon shone, and
the mountains glimmered, bounding the vast
plain far away. They looked at each other,

and both had turned a little pale. Then
suddenly, inside the house, a woman screamed
violently once, and began to sob and moan.
They heard the man with slow and heavy steps
go away from the door.

** Come away," said Gerald, laying his
hand on Theoo's arm.

This certainly was not the place for a
night's rest. They hardly spoke till they
had left the dark little group of trees and
buildings behind them, and crossed the suit,
and were out again on the wide veldt, where
they could see the fire burning, and the horses
moving about in the moonlight, and the long
canvas cover of the cart, which suddenly
looked like home.

The cheerful blaze of that fire was very
attractive ; there sat their wild, good-humoured
driver with his friends, still boiling the kettle
in a yellow glow of light which made the

moon look pale. Most of the passengers had
stowed themselves away in the cart ; they
were all in their right minds, as far as they
had any. Gerald and Theoo sat down near
the fire, and Gerald began asking questions
about the farm they had just visited. The
men laughed at the notion of asking for anything
there. They said that the people who
lived there were English, and had ruined
themselves at the Diamond Fields. The
man had told his own story, as Theoo had
at once guessed. His wife was raving mad
now, and constantly trying to destroy herself;
he kept her there, alone in that house, and
never allowed any one to come in. As Theoo
listened, sad and silent, to Gerald's talk with
the men, a sort of terror stole over her for
the first time ; she felt the awfulness of this
great country, where evil was so strong and
human beings were so helpless and weak.

Presently, as she sat dreaming there,
leaning against a stone, Gerald laid a rug
over her to keep her from the cold. And
then the men began to sing a wild, melancholy
song with a chorus, which went on
through many verses. And then she knew
that Gerald was wrapping the rug more
warmly round her ; and she half opened her
eyes, and saw the yellow flames flickering,
and was conscious of a great blue roof, with
a light in it, and she fancied that she saw
two great white misty wings floating, even
higher than that, and she murmured to herself,
so that the words just reached Gerald's
ear, " God is strong."

And then, strangely enough, she was in
London, in her grandmother's house once
more, with the lamp burning dimly ; and
she was telling her grandmother about
Gerald ; and Lady Redcliff kissed her, which

was a wonderful thing, and said, " My pretty
Theoooo 1 " in her kindest voice ; and Theoooo
laid her head against her knees, but they
were very hard.

And so they caned out that night, and
she slept still and peacefully with her head
on a stone, and Gerald sat all through the
hours watching her, till the fire was nearly
out, and they were all roused to  bustle
and confusion in the chill of the early
morning.

As they started off for the Fields, with
a great blowing of horns, and kicking and
plunging, dashing recklessly down into the
suit, and up the other side, Gerald and
Theoo looked at that Englishman's lonely
house  they passed quite near it now.

'' Poor things ! " Theoo whispered to Gerald.
'' I wish we could have gone in and comforted
them."

He looked at her and smiled ; it was a
woman's wish ; and he knew, better than
she did, how common such stories were in
Africa. She would, indeed, find many to be
comforted.

AT THE FIELDS.

Dust everywhere, and a hot, brooding, lurid
atmosphere, which makes strangers to Kimberley,
in spite of themselves, think of other
and older " cities of the plain." The town
lies irregularly about a low hill ; it is surrounded
by the great barren veldt, which
stretches away for miles to the mountains,
and is covered with rough scrub-grass, or
sometimes it is all sand and dead brown
stalks. The nearest green place, where trees
and gardens are to be found, is Barkly, by
the Vaal River, twenty-four miles away. Here,

where the first diamonds were found, the Fields
people go to get rid of their fevers, or at
least to refresh themselves after enduring their
own climate a little too long.

There may have been changes and improvements
since that time ; but when Gerald
and Theoo arrived at Kimberley the town was
built of corrugated iron, with mud huts and
canvas tents here and there ; the streets, or
roadways rather, were a wilderness of dust
and holes ; the place, in fact, was a mere
settlement round the great mine, which was
still worked by private claim-holders. Companies
had hardly begun to be formed. Each
man worked for himself, was lucky, sold his
diamonds to the Jew dealers, lived wildly and
extravagantly till the money was all gone ;
or was unlucky, worked on in despair till he
could afford to work no longer, and ended
perhaps in starvation or suicide, while, by no

VOL. in. H

means rarely, the diamonds which would have
saved his life and made his fortune were carried
off from the mine by his Kafir labourers,
hidden In their mouths, or even in a slit in
their skin.

In those days the fortunate sorter carried
his diamonds home to his wife in his waistcoat-pocket,
and she looked them carefully over,
and put the white ones into a little bottle of
acid on a shelf, for fear they should crack
in cutting. Here at Kimberley people thought
of diamonds, talked of diamonds, searched for
diamonds from early in the morning till late
at night. Thousands of Kafirs, possessing no
clothes but an old scarlet jacket, which they
generally did not wear, spent their days digging
out soil in the mine, which was sent
up in buckets to be pulverised, and washed,
and sifted, and sorted ; this last part of the
work was always done by the owner himself.

All this interested Theoo extremely when
she first came to the Fields. She was in a
mood to like everything, and everything
amused her. She found things to admire,
things that she said were beautiful, while
Gerald laughed again at her idealising power.
She saw new effects of colour, where he
refused to see anything but dusty gray and
brown ; the purple-blue of the heaps of soil
about the mine, the dark staging and machinery
standing up against a faint yellow sky
shading into blue, the red road running along
into the town, the yellow green of the grass,
the yellow huts of a Kafir location, with black
figures moving about in red coats, blue coats,
red caps ; sometimes a wild Kafir in an orange
blanket, with beads round his neck. She liked
to see the ox-waggons, gaily painted, out-spanned
in the great open square of the
town, the long-horned oxen meekly waiting,

H 2

the dark faces of many nations passing by,
the coolies selling fruit, the Malays in their
gaudy dresses driving or sauntering by.
Theoore was a romance about it all for Theoo,
in spite of the dust, the bad food, the
enormous dearness of everything, the Jew
dealers and the diamonds ; but just now life
itself was romance.

She had declared to Gerald that their
own house was a great deal nicer than she
expected.

"What did you expect, then?" he said
rather dolefully.

''Oh, an iron thing," said Theoo. "A shed,
with two rooms. How many rooms has this ?
Four, and a kitchen, and a tent. No stairs !
How nice ! A garden actually, with trees in
it. And it is all really our own ! "

'' I bought it and the furniture, as it stands,"
said Gerald. ''If you had not come I should

have sold It again ; or perhaps have found
some fellows to live with me."

He looked at her with laughing eyes, as
she stood in the middle of the drawing-room.
His wife  his house  it was all like a dream ;
and there was Combe in the background,
casting anxious looks round her ; she, too,
though she would not have confessed it, was
agreeably surprised at the house, which, at
least, looked clean.

Poor little house ! Theoo often thinks of
it now, and never without a strange ache at
her heart, and a disposition to tears. If happiness
was short-lived there, it was very real
while it lasted.

Outside, the house was corrugated iron,
with canvas stretched over the roof to keep
the heat away. All along the front, a reed-fence
divided it and its little compound from
the road. There was a deep porch before

the door, with a green creeper climbing over
it ; through this one went straight Into what
they called the drawing-room, which was the
whole front of the house, except a little
room on the left, called the study. This
opened out of the drawing-room by a corner
door, and so did the dining-room, a long
little room behind ; through It again was a
bedroom, a sort of lean-to, with a sloping
roof, looking out at the back on a row of
blue gum-trees which divided them from their
next-door neighbours. Then there was the
kitchen, a tiny hole which opened out of the
other end of the dining-room, and here was
the only fireplace, except a stove in the corner
of the dining-room. As there was no other
room of any sort. Combe had to sleep in a
tent outside in the compound ; this frightened
her a good deal at first, but she was not
really a coward at heart, and was soon quite

proud of her tent, which she made into a
smart little abode.

She was thankful to have reached some
sort of home at last, and not displeased to
have full swing for all her talents, which
were many. She went out marketing, she
cooked, she swept and dusted ; she set herself
to upholsterer's work, and made covers for the
chairs and sofa out of some chintz that Mrs.
Forester had advised her to bring from Cape
Town. The canvas walls, the canvas ceilings,
looked bare and ugly enough, but they had
bought some photographs in Cape Town,
and Gerald hung them up, with one or two
little favourite pictures that Theoo had brought
with her. Then he and she had a few books,
and these made the rooms look homelike,
and after all, it was home.

Gerald had a little office in another street,
where his building company was supposed

to give estimates, receive tenders, and do
all Its business, which on most days was no
business at all. His chief occupation, therefore,
was writing letters to the promoters of
the concern In England, warning them how
very poor its prospects were. If his pay
was no more certain than the profits, this
was, indeed, a bad look-out for him ; but
before throwing It over altogether, he wished
to give some other man time to come out
and take his place. His friend the banker,
who had taken a fancy to him, would give
him a temporary clerkship at any time. This
was all very well, and might keep off starvation,
but it did not prevent Gerald from
feeling very uneasy.

He had no capital at all ; Theoo had her
few thousand pounds ; there had been no
settlements  an additional cause of grief and
rage to Captain North and Mr. Goodall.

\

Thus they could do what they Heed with
their money as long as it lasted ; and when
Gerald looked about him at Kimberley, and
saw how men doubled their fortunes there,
all his thoughts began to turn one way.
The prudent old banker strongly advised
him against having anything to do with
diamonds, holding up many instances of
ruined men. Still Gerald was attracted.
He had a certain turn for speculation, and
though no venture of his had ever succeeded,
yet there seemed to be no reason why he
should be unlucky always.

He said nothing of this to Theoo ; at this
time they found money talk perfectly uninteresting.
It was only Combe who complained
to her of the terrible price of everything,
on which Theoo laughed, and said that
everything was so bad, it ought to go a
great deal farther. They were not sure of

much more than three hundred a year.
Gerald had provided for Ada, and had spent
almost his last money in buying the house,
and horses, and fetching his wife from Cape
Town. Theoo was not at all anxious, arguing
that she would want no evening dresses, and
failing to realise, at first, that their income
was about equal to a hundred and fifty in
England.

On one of the first days, she had waked
up from a peaceful afternoon sleep, and was
looking out of the window, expecting Gerald,
when she saw Mrs. Lee coming up to the
door. She hardly knew her ; the little woman
was so very much changed in appearance.
All her misery was left behind on board
ship ; she was very smartly dressed, very
lively in her manners ; she came laughing
into the room, and insisted on kissing Theoo,
who bent her head with a shade of reluctance.

\

'' Poor little thing ! " she reproached herself;
'why am I so horrid? It is very nice
of her to want to kiss me."

And she immediately began with extreme
kindness to ask after Mr. Lee and the baby.

''Oh, we're all flourishing, thank you,"
said Mrs. Lee. " As to you  dear me, how
queer it is to call you Mrs. Fane !  you
don't look as if you liked it much. You're
a lot paler than you were on board. Ah !
I've heard more than one say that it don't
answer, coming out to them. It's more
than they ought to expect. Is that it now ?
Or is it the journey that's been too much for
you ? "

Theoo looked at her in a sort of dreamy
surprise. There came vaguely into her mind
at that moment a piece of advice that Mrs.
Forester had given her, when they were talking
about people and life at the Fields. This

advice was : '' Give yourself airs." It had
amused Theoo rather at the time, for she had
sometimes found that her character at home
was that of a young woman whose airs were
insupportable ; but It was true that since her
engagement to Gerald she had changed very
much In this respect. The old airs, no doubt,
were somewhere not far off; but she felt
gentle and charitable towards everybody, and
not at all inclined to show them. She and
Gerald had talked a little on the journey about
these things, and had agreed that they would
be very friendly with their neighbours, though
not absolutely intimate with them. Theoo had,
of course, thought of Mrs. Lee, the only one
she knew, and was quite prepared to be kind
to the little woman ; but then she had pictured
her unhappy, and appealing to her kindness.
It must be confessed that this flush of prosperity,
which made the poor little thing ten

times more vulgar than she had been on board
ship, had a chilling effect on her friend. Theoo
began to perceive that Mrs. Foresters advice
was based on good sense, and not on prejudice
or worldliness, as she had imagined at the
moment. She ignored all Mrs. Lee's questions,
and answered, smiling :

'' I am very well, thank you. Of course,
the climate tries one rather."

'' I should think it did," said Mrs. Lee.
*' You've got to be careful about fever, everyone
says, and this is just the time of year for
it. So don't you go doing wild things 
stopping out late, or going out too much
in the sun. I expect you're one of those
people who don't half take care of themselves."


It would be very horrid to have the
fever," said Theoo.

She sat there, slender and pale, and dressed

in gray, in the corner of her sofa, while
Mrs. Lee, bolt upright, and in very bright
colours, went on chattering. Her black eyes
went roving round the room ; sometimes they
were fixed on Theoo, with a curious scrutiny
of everything she had on. She talked about
the fever for some time ; then about the people
she already knew at Kimberley  they were
very jolly, she said : about the stores, and the
shocking dearness of everything ; about houses
and furniture, inviting Theoo in rather triumphant
tones to come and see her house ;
then about dress, a subject in which she
was quite at home ; and now she began
to gaze rather anxiously at Theoo's gray
gown.

"There's one thing we can do here at
Kimberley," she said : " we can dress. I tell
you, some of the ladies here are as smart
as if they'd come out of a London fashion-book.

I'm awfully glad after all, that I
brought some good dresses with me. You
know, on board, I was ever so sorry. But I
find people here are very particular. They
take notice of you according as you're dressed.
It doesn't do to be a scrub, just as if you
were travelling among savages. You came
out here to make your fortune, and you must
look as If you were making It. You don't
mind me saying so, do you, Mrs. Fane ?
Because, you see, I've been here longer than
you have, and so of course I've learnt the
ways."

'eyes," said Theoo. She looked very
quiet, very indifferent, lifting her eyes
towards her visitor with a sort of Idle
sweetness.

Mrs. Lee was not at all conscious of the
feelings she was exciting ; but Gerald, who
came up to the porch at that moment, and

caught sight of Theoo's profile, pale against
the shadows, thought that it was a very longtime
since he had seen her look so cold and
scornful.

" She has got a visitor she doesn't like,"
he thought. 'who is it, I wonder? What
a bore!"

He was rather uncomfortable in his mind
as he turned away, and went in at the
study window. He did not like the people
himself, but he got on pretty well with
the men, and was nervously anxious that
his wife should be popular among the
women.

'' She needn't show in her face that she
despises them, poor wretches ! " he thought.
'' They will never forgive her, and we shall
suffer for it in the end. It is partly Mrs.
Forester's fault."

'' Then you are happier than you expected

to be ? ' said Theoo gently, dropping the subject
of dress.

"Oh yes, I'm happy enough," said Mrs.
Lee. "It's a beastly place, of course, but
there's a lot going on. And I always did
like, you know, to be in a place where there
were more men than women ; you get made
such a jolly fuss with. And I've had several
diamonds given me already ; and George
likes his partner, and they are having very
good luck to begin with. Oh yes, I'm
not sorry that we made up our minds to
come."

There was only a thin partition between
the drawing-room and the study ; the door,
too, did not shut particularly well ; therefore
Gerald had the advantage of hearing these
last remarks. He thought he had better
go In, and relieve Theoo ; It was evident
that this lady would rather be entertained

VOL. lU. I

by him than by her ; besides, the mention
of George's luck interested him rather.

So he went quietly Into the room, and
Theoo Introduced him to Mrs. Lee, who
jumped up, and shook hands enthusiastically.
He certainly would not have known
her again, though she well remembered
her glimpse of him at Cape Town. He
talked to her, and she was quite contented
to chatter to him, while Theoo listened, happier
now that he had come in ; since Mrs. Lee's
arrival, she had for the first time felt a little
despair about Kimberley.

They talked chiefly about diamonds, a
subject that did not at this time interest
her very much ; she found herself dreaming
as she sat there in her corner, and gazed
out through the dark shadow of the porch
into the dusty sunshine.

Mrs. Lee's black fringe had now become

curly ; It bobbed over her sparkling eyes
as she talked' with great animation to Gerald,
telling him the whole history of her husband's
speculation. A distant cousin, whom he had
never seen, had been working out here alone
for a year or two, and had written to George
that he had better come out, and buy half
his claim. George had never done any
good in England, as his wife candidly stated.
He wanted at first to leave her and the
child behind, but she would not hear of that.
On board ship she had certainly repented,
but now she was glad she had come ; George
and his partner had found so many diamonds,
worth so many hundred pounds ; of course
the expenses were great, but the profits
were evidently going to be splendid. Mrs.
Lee pulled out her purse, and shook out
several rough diamonds, laughing, on the
table.

I 2

Rather valuable property to carry about
like that," said Gerald, as he took them in
his hand, his brown face looking grave and
interested.

Bless you, we think nothing of them
here ! " said Mrs. Lee.

She looked from one to the other for a
minute in silence, while Gerald examined the
little stones.

'' You're not a judge of them yet, Mr.
Fane," she said, '' but you soon would be.
I'm quite sharp about the different kinds
already. Well, now, you won't be angry,
either of you, if I say something ? "

Gerald looked up for an instant and
smiled ; then his eyes went back to the
diamonds.

'* I don't think your wife will be offended,"
said Mrs. Lee ; '' I know her better than
you. Well, now, society here is very curious

about you two. They have often had young
men of your sort, of course, who have run
through their money at home  I beg your
pardon, I didn't say you had  but Mrs. Fane
is rather new, and they don't know what to
make of her. And they can't understand
why on earth you should have brought her
out here, if it wasn't to make a fortune for
her. As to that company, you know  I can
tell you they shake their heads over that."

Gerald bent his head a little lower over
the diamonds ; he did not know what to say,
and was conscious of the scorn in Theoo's
face, of a faint angry flush that might have
shown Mrs. Lee she did not quite understand
her.

'* It is very kind of ' society ' to be curious
about us," she said, '' but we are not at all
interesting ; there is no mystery about us,
and I hope it won't trouble itself any more.

It is possible, I suppose, to live at Kimberley
without wanting diamonds ? "

Mrs. Lee was quite quick enough to
feel her friend s Indignation, and she coloured
scarlet.

"Well, now, you must forgive me," she
said. "Of course, none of us would be your
equals In England, but It's a different thing
out here, you know ; we're all very much on
a level."

I did not mean that," said Theoo, still
coldly and haughtily. " I have no doubt the
people here are very good people, but I don't
see why our affairs should Interest them."

They are most thoroughly kind people,"
said Gerald.

That they are, and so you'll find them
If you are In any trouble. I could name two
or three, Mrs. Fane, who will be as kind to
you as you were to me on board ship."

Theoo smiled a little at this. Theoore was
something frank and affectionate about the
little woman, In spite of her vulgarity, which
made It Impossible to be very angry with
her.

'* I hope I shall not Interest them by being
In any trouble," she said.

When Mrs. Lee was gone, Gerald came
back from the gate, and found his wife walking
restlessly up and down the room.

Do you suppose we shall have all this
impertinence over and over again ? " she said.
'' But you don't mind it, evidently. You rather
like to be pitied, and wondered about, and
interfered with."

No, I don't," said Gerald, flinging himself
on the sofa. '' Look here, though. I told
you what It would be, and we agreed we
would be friendly with them all  don't you
remember ? And they are not ill-natured,

Theoo  just the other way. You had much
better let them like you. Of course they will
if you'll let them. There is sense in what
they say. Every day I see we ought never
to have come here, if it wasn't for diamonds."

I hate diamonds ; I will not hear of
diamonds' said Theoo.

There was a cloud on his face as he sat
and looked at her. She wandered about the
room, and they were both silent for several
minutes  the first unhappy minutes that either
of them had passed since they were married,
just a month ago.

Poor child ! " Gerald said at last in a
low voice. *' It was awfully wrong ; I ought
never to have brought you here."

Oh, Gerald, forgive me ! " she said, and
she turned round suddenly, and came to him
with tears in her eyes ; so that their first
attempt at a quarrel did not succeed.

DIAMOND-DIGGING.

This was the only little cloud, except clouds
of dust and clouds of flies, which troubled
Theoo's happiness at that time. Theoose, with
Gerald, were to be preferred to the clearest
and purest atmosphere without him. This
nonsensical remark was gravely made to him
by his wife, not long after they came to
Kimberley. Gerald laughed, and made some
affectionate answer ; but these outward discomforts
plagued him more than her. He
did not mind the people much, or the moral
feeling of the place; but he did mind the

dust and the flies. However, he said nothing
about going back to England, and Theoo did
not breathe a wish on that subject. He shrank
from the thought of her relations, and he
knew that either paying work or paying
speculation would be more out of his way
there than here. Of course he saw that, as
an unmarried man, he could have got on
here as well as many other young fellows ;
the first horror of the place had said that he
could not, but now, on further acquaintance,
he began to perceive that he could ; and he
had moments of sincere repentance for bringing
Theoo here  if not, as Mrs. Lee said,
to make a fortune for her. But Theoo was
so brave, and happy, and patient ; he knew
that in her dear romantic mind she really
meant that silly speech about the dust and
the flies. When he came in anxious and
desponding  for his spirits were variable 

one look into her sweet face was enough to
bring hope and courage back again, and everyday
she seemed to be a little happier, a little
more contented, as fresh interests began to
spring up round her.

There were no more small bursts of haughtiness
about the people at the Fields, who did
not, in fact, trouble her much ; her own looks
and manners protected her, unconsciously to
herself; and after that first visit she could
smile good-humouredly at Mrs. Lee. In the
next house to theirs, separated from them by
a rather melancholy row of blue gum-trees, a
digger's wife was slowly recovering from fever.
She was a gentle, sad woman, with a good
deal of refinement, and Theoo spent many
hours with her ; the poor thing's one longing
wish was to go back to England, and not tolet
her children grow up where they were,
wild little Africanders. Theoo often carried

them off to her own house, and played with
them there, for the sake of giving their mother
an hour's peace ; but she had a great tenderness
for children, and a great influence over
them. After two or three weeks, the next-door
neighbour and her family went away to
Barkly for change of air, and then Theoo's
chief sympathies were called out by a Kafir
woman with a sick baby, who used to sit
nursing it at the door of her hut, wrapped ina
scarlet blanket. The tiny dark face grew
yellower and smaller, and more pinched and
ghastly, and Theoo watched it with a sort of
superstition, till one day it was gone, and its
poor mother crept out alone from the hut, and
looked up at the sun, and round at the desolate
camp, and wandered along moaning like an
animal in pain till she came to Theoo's door,
where she crouched down on the ground, and
Theoo brought her food and tried to comfort her.

Another friend that Theoo made at this
time was a dog, a funny red beast, the colour
of his native dust. The old banker, Gerald's
first friend, gave him to her, and he and she
soon loved each other faithfully. Wool would
have looked scornfully upon such a rival as
Toby, whose only external beauty was in his
honest, loving eyes.

The only people at the Fields with whom
Theoo and Gerald were really likely to make
friends, if they came across them, were a few
young Englishmen among the diamond-diggers,
who had left civilisation behind and come out
here : some under various kinds of clouds,
some only for adventure and fortune. These
young men lived here and there at Kimberley,
often two or three of them together, dressed
in the wildest garments, and spent their time
in hunting when they were not sorting
diamonds. Gerald did not make friends with

any of them at once, for circumstances had
made him shy and reserved ; he had not the
common interest of diamonds, and Englishmen
are much the same in their manners
everywhere ; but he knew several of them
slightly, and Theoo began to know them by
sight, as they walked about the town, and
used to say to him sometimes: "There goes
a gentleman."

One day he and she had walked up to
the edge of the great mine, and were
standing there, looking at the work going on.
It was a curious sight, and has often been
described before, but this was what Theoo
saw. She looked down into a hole in the
earth, like an immense bowl, with steep sides,
more than two hundred feet deep, and an
extent of some acres. The floor of this was
all uneven, dark-blue soil, divided into great
irregular blocks, like rocks in an old crater.

Each of these blocks was a '' claim," belonging
to a separate man or company, and about
each of them a number of Kafirs were
working, thousands of small black figures
altogether, looking tiny in this immense
place, half hidden among the platforms, and
terraces, and ditches, and the strange shadows
of the mine. They were all at work, though
lazily, all these little figures ; and the air, as
one looked down at them, was full of vibrating
wires, making a faint sharp music as hundreds
of buckets came up along them, full of blue
soil, wound up by many windlasses, and
running down again empty to be filled with
soil once more. There was a strange medley
of colours in the sides of the mine  red,
yellow, blue, all running into each other ; the
sun was low, so that one side all glowed
with the deepest hues, while black sharp
shadows lay across the other.

It was while Theoo and Gerald were
looking down on this, standing a little
apart from the windlasses, and the buckets,
and the Kafirs busy with carts, taking
away the stuff to be dried, and washed, and
sorted, with a rough-looking white man
here and there directing their operations ;
while he was telling her all he knew about
it, and speaking, perhaps, a little enthusiastically
 for the whole thing had a
strong attraction for him  while they were
absorbed in the picture before them, a
young man, who had just come out of
the mine, stopped and looked at them

curiously.

'' More picturesque than our old mines,

isn't it ? " said Gerald.

'eyes; but I like our old mines best,"

said Theoo. '' Last year, at Woodcote, I

thought they were so very interesting."

Gerald looked at her smiling, and she
laughed and coloured a little.

Don't be presumptuous," she said Ina
low voice. '' Why should I have been
thinking of you ? I mean It. I think
there Is something fine In our men
going down Into the darkness and the
dangers, risking their lives every day that
all the houses may be warmed. They want
some courage ; they and their work are much
more romantic really than Kafirs and diamonds,
If you think of it seriously."

*' Well, all this is more romantic on the
surface, at any rate ! ' said Gerald.

** Ah, but what is romance ? " said Theoo.

She was looking happy and exalted as
she spoke ; her eyes dark and soft, her
face with a faint pink flush under her
white shady hat, were lovely and full of
expression.

VOL. III. :e

The young man from the mine, who
had been Hungering near them with furtive
glances, now approached so close to them
that Gerald turned round and looked at him.

He was roughly dressed, and in his shirt-sleeves,
with a slouched-hat on his head.
He was short, with a Hight, active figure,
looking as if he could walk, and ride, and
play games. His skin was tanned dark brown,
and the hair on his head was dark, but his
beard was a light tawny colour ; the sun
had bleached it. He had bright pleasant
gray eyes, and was about Gerald's age.
There still lingered about him something of
the air of an Eton boy, good-humoured,
polite, idle, and charming.

*' I think you have forgotten me," he said
to Gerald, and he took off his hat to Theoo
with a pretty deprecating smile. '*No wonder,
but this opportunity is too good to be lost."

Why, you are Bob Stirling ! " said Gerald,
seizing his hand. '' He was In the regiment,"
turning eagerly to Theoo. '' Bob, this Is my
wife."

*' I supposed so," said Bob, " since I have
been lying in wait here three long minutes.
Are you making a tour in Africa ?" he asked,
as he shook hands with Theoo, who smiled on
him brightly. '' Is Mr. Fane going to write a
book about us ? I wish somebody would."

''Oh, no; we are living here," said Theoo.

"What on earth " began Mr. Stirling,

and he stared at Gerald and was silent.

Bob Stirling was by nature curious and
talkative, but he asked no more questions then.
He did not even say much about having unaccountably
lost sight of Gerald after he left
the army ; he only said one or two nice things
about their old friendship, and told him he was
not changed In the least.

K 2

'* I can't say that to you," said Gerald.
*' I may have passed you in the street fifty
times  most likely I have, for I came here In
June."

'' I should not have passed you," said Bob.
* You are wonderfully well preserved, but now
you will let him grow his beard, Mrs. Fane,
and then It will be all up with his good looks,
and the old associations."

'' Oh no, never," said Theoo.

How is It, then, that we have not met
before ? " said Gerald.

I went down to Cape Town in June, and
came back in August, and had the fever, and
have been on the Vaal River ever since, picking
up again. I only came home two days ago.
You and Mrs. Fane have not had the fever ',
A pleasure to come."

He went on to tell them very frankly all
his concerns. He had left the army two years

ago, being one of a large family, and finding
his pay an empty delusion, he had come out
here with two of his friends  Slater and
Humming.

"You remember Slater  fat boy  he's
thin enough now, poor beggar ! awfully
cadaverous, always having fever. He's got
It now."

They had been working hard, and on the
whole had had wonderfully good luck.

"In another year I shall be rich enough
to go home, and stay there," said Mr.
Stirling.

Don't you think It will be very funny to
live In England again ? " said Theoo.

Yes, but on the whole I shall like it.
I'm not naturally savage. In spite of my
appearance, which I never felt ashamed of
till now."

After a little more talk, Mr. Stirling

remarked that it was sorting-time, and asked
Theoo if she would come and sort for him.

*you will bring me luck, Mrs. Fane,. I
know," he said.

So they walked across with him to his
ground near the mine where his partner,
Mr. Gumming, a dark, silent man, was
already sitting at a table, with Kafirs and
buckets in attendance, and heaps of waste
blue soil in the background. The Kafirs
rolled their wild eyes on Theoo and Gerald
as they came up. Mr. Gumming moved
away from the table, rather terrified at
the sight of a lady ; he was not such a
sociable character as his friend Bob, and
he had no former acquaintance with Gerald
Fane.

'' Now, Mrs. Fane, sit here, please," said
Bob, and Theoo took her place on a rough
stool behind the table.

It was a strange scene ; the great sky
that blazed with evening light, the groups
of black, degraded-looking figures standing
round, the dryness, the desolation of red
sand and blue crumbling soil, without a tree
or blade of grass to be seen ; the two young
diggers, with shirt-sleeves turned up on arms
as brown as their faces, Mr. Gumming talking
to Gerald a yard or two away, and
Mr. Stirling standing by Theoo with laughing
eyes, to preside over her first attempt at
sorting.

A Kafir with a most repulsive face came
forward with a large sieve of blue stuff, and
poured it on the table before Mrs. Fane.
Bob Stirling put a piece of slate into her
hand, to shovel the stuff about with, and she
began her sorting.

At first the stuff seemed full of sparkling
things, over which she exclaimed, thinking

that each of them was a diamond. Gerald
now came up and looked over her shoulder
with eager Interest, though he had often
helped at sorting before. The deceptive
sparkles came from bits of spar, or from
crystals, which were not at first so easily
distinguished from diamonds, till Bob Stirling
put them between his teeth ; If they felt
breakable they were worth nothing. In the
end Theoo's sorting produced about a dozen
diamonds, and two of these were large, fine
ones. The diggers were much pleased,
saying It was the best sort they had had
for some time ; they begged her to come
and sort for them again as soon as she
would, for a lady was always luckier than a
man.

" Perhaps, If you will come, Mrs. Fane,"
said Mr. Gumming solemnly, " there may bea
chance of Stirling attending to his business

a little more. He's the idlest fellow ; he
leaves it all to me, and if I wasn't the soul
of honesty, he would be ruined in no time."

'' I must certainly come and look after
his interests," said Theoo, smiling. " He has
been ill, so what could he do ? "

'' Have I really got a friend to stand up
for me ? " exclaimed Bob in a low voice.

He was perfectly happy with his newfound
friends, and Gumming, who was lonely,
looked rather enviously after him as he
walked away with them.

Gerald and he were talking about old
times, and Theoo, listening to them, felt as
if all this was a strange, incongruous dream.
Both surely could not be real  civilised life
in green, shady, cloudy England, where fields,
and hedges, and gardens were, and all the
thousand details  so unnecessary they seemed
now  which took up every day ; all that

felt so far off now, that Theoo felt as if she
could never, possibly, see it all again.

They passed along by crowds of Kafirs
just come out of the mine, with scarlet coats
and black legs, shouting, screaming, dancing.
By the wayside sat the coolies, with their
baskets of fruit for sale ; rough white men
lounged by smoking, with their hands in
their pockets, wearing large hats lined with
green ; all was noise and colour in the deep,
glorious glow of sunset.

Bob Stirling came and spent that evening
with Gerald and Theoo, and many evenings
afterwards ; he was so friendly, so helpful
and good-tempered, that they never found
him a bore. He brought his friends to see
them, and very soon they had no want of
acquaintances ; all the best of the young menin
Kimberley came to their house, and worshipped
Theoo, and made friends with Gerald.

Life was very happy. They went out riding
on the veldt in the early morning, and by
moonlight ; the opinions of their neighbours
did not trouble them, though it grew hotter
every day. And after all, Gerald did not seem
foolish when he said again that the only good
reason for living here was diamonds, and that
he thought he must buy a claim, and try his
luck like all these other fellows.

Theoo smiled a little indifferently, and said :
Well, as you like." She did not mind much ;
perhaps she was drifting into that lazy, languid,
don't-care state of mind, which seems to be one
of the two poles of life in South Africa.

THE EXPEDITION.

The heat, and the flies, and the dust became
more and more as the summer advanced ; and
one day, when Gerald was complaining of
them terribly. Bob Strong proposed that
they should go off for a fortnight's expedition
into the country, to hunt springbok and shoot
partridges and wild turkeys. '' And Mrs. Fane
would find some sketches about the river," he
added, for he was a little of an artist in his
way, and admired some drawings that Theoo
had made at Wynberg, and on the journey up,
and at the Fields.

They both entered Into his plan with great
spirit, and began asking questions and talking
about details, which were all at his fingers
; but presently he hesitated a little, looking
doubtfully at Theoo.

"I'm the worst feature," he said; "you
won't want me  or would it be better if I
brought another man ? No, I don't think it
would. I have put it into your heads, and
now I shall leave you to carry it out."

'' You won't do anything so unfriendly'*
said Gerald. '' We were saying last night
that you were as good as one's brother 
so there, Bob ! unless you don't want to
come."

'* Of course I want to come. Does he
mean it, Mrs. Fane?"

'you knew him before I did," said Theoo.
I mean what he says ; will that do ? "

Bob smiled cheerfully ; he was quite contented

now, and sat there looking gentle
and happy, and talking about the expedition.
Any colonial roughness he had was
put on to suit his associates outside ; he
took It off with his hat when he came into
Theoo's house, and would sit for hours at a
time talking to her about his mother and
sisters.

"Till you came," he said to her one day,
'' I never mentioned their names to anybody
here  not even to old Mother Jackson
when she was nursing me In the fever."

The lady thus spoken of was rich and
influential, and full of bustling kindness. She
was an object of reverence, mixed with a little
fear to almost all the younger and poorer
people at the Fields. Mrs. Lee adored her ;
her curiosity had made Theoo treat her with
a dignity and stiffness which effectually checked
her for the time ; but Theoo reproached herself

a little for this, when she heard all the young
men talk of her so affectionately. " Old
Mother Jackson " seemed to be their resource
in every serious trouble. There were many
stories of her generosity and her active
benevolence ; still Theoo shrank from her,
and did not wonder, somehow, that Mr. Stirling
should have kept his own people sacred from
the prying tongue of Mrs. Jackson.

The idea of getting away for a time from
this city of the plain into silence, and freedom,
and the open air, was perfectly delightful to
Gerald and Theoo. All the arrangements were
soon made, and one glorious night they and
Bob Stirling started away from the camp ina
Kafir ox-waggon, which had been hired
in the square, having come in a day or two
before with a load of wood. It was a very
smart waggon, painted green, with red wheels
and pole, and a good strong canvas top. The

long team of oxen were In good condition ;
their Kafir driver was a sturdy fellow, and
Bob Stirling had known him before, having
hired him and his waggon last Christmas fora
hunting expedition with two or three of
his friends. It is the habit among Kimberley
people to go off In waggons In the summertime,
but generally just after Christmas, when
the heat is greatest, and they have a right
to a holiday.

The long, pleasant picnic began that
night by passing through the Kafir location
outside the camp, where fires were burning,
and black figures dancing and singing round
them. The three friends were riding, for
of course they took their horses with them.
They had two black boys belonging to the
expedition, to look after the horses, cook,
and make themselves useful, and in the
waggon they had provisions enough for a

fortnight. They rode on In advance of the
waggon, which came winding slowly after
them along the dusty road. The moon, low
In the sky, shone softly over the great wide
veldt, which was covered with a bush like
juniper ; there was a dim line of mountains
far away, just as Gerald and Theoo used to
see them on their journey up. She looked
away at them a little sadly now. KImberley
was soon left behind ; even Kafir huts were
left behind, and there was a great stillness
around them. Once or twice they passed a
mud farm In the veldt, with higher bush
about It, and sometimes a few trees ; sometimes
these farms were ruined or deserted.
Here and there a slight hill, roundly sweeping
up from the plain, looked away to the other
greater hills ; here and there they scrambled
down Into a sault and up again ; but these were
the only breaks In the wild, boundless plain.

VOL. III.

There was not much Likeness in this to
the cart-travelling of a few weeks before.
Now there was no crowd, no hurry, no
early horn to wake the weary from their
sleep, which was much pleasant in the
waggon than in a horrid little room of some
wayside farm or canteen. Gerald thought
the oxen dreadfully slow as they dawdled
along, doing under twenty miles a day ;
but Theoo was not at all impatient, even of
the meals of oxen and tackles. At every
outran  and they were frequent  the black
boys searched about leisurely for fuel, and
made a large fire, and boiled their kettle,
and made their tea  tea which Theoo tried
once to drink, but she did not repeat the
experiment.

They were all very happy, though Gerald
grumbled, and the other two laughed at him.
Bob Stirling was enjoying himself thoroughly,

constantly finding queer subjects for Theoo
to draw, which reminded them oddly, afterwards,
of various little adventures on that
journey. And he had a wonderful way of
taking himself off when he was not wanted,
of riding off alone at a tearing pace for long
stretches across the veldt, when the sun was
too hot for these unseasoned English people.
They had soon found out, of course, that
it would have been better to have nobody,
but they agreed that Bob was the best companion
they could have had, for he was never
in the way.

In the great sunshine of noon, Theoo
would lie half asleep in the back of the
waggon, and gaze dimly through her eyelashes
at the endless, burning plain. Here she first
saw a mirage  trees, the high bush about a
farm, trembling on the horizon : the narrow
bright line between showing what it was.

L 2

The pleasantness part of their time was
spent by the Vaal, the wide, calm river, with
its red banks, and fringe of soft mimosa-bushes.
Here they loitered for several days,
camping-out, bathing, sketching. Early in the
morning they would go out hunting springbok,
little graceful creatures, with curly horns, and
wild, soft eyes. Bob's horse would not stand
fire, so he jumped off to have a shot at the
game, and sprang into the saddle again and
flew after them like the wind. Sometimes
they went out for long rides by moonlight,
and once or twice they lost their way, and
had a very long round before they reached
their camp again.

One evening they paid a visit to a Boer
farm, which Bob knew already, about an hour's
ride from where they had encamped themselves.
It stood out in the plain, with purple
hills not far off, beyond the stretch of glowing

sand. There were a few trees, and some bush,
and some Kafir huts, grouped about the long
low buildings ; they were white, with dark
thatch, and the farm animals walked in and
out as they pleased. Here they rode up just
at sundown, the hour when it is most
dangerous to be out, and were received
kindly and hospitably by the good Boer folk.
The master of the farm himself was away,
but his wife, and a row of sons and daughters,
all stood with outstretched hands to greet the
strangers, and presently made them sit down
to a supper of salt mutton. Bob Stirling,
who had visited them before, chattered Dutch
to them, and perhaps told them a few romances
about the other guests he had brought them,
for after a time the Boer wife, who was
walking about with a long whip, driving out
the pigs and turkeys, turned to Theoo, and
said :

I understand. You are the daughter of
the Queen of England'

Theoo laughed and shook her head, but all
the sons and daughters nodded, and stared
at her In solid solemnity ; and Bob nodded too,
laughing ; and Gerald Fane looked smiling
at his wife, who was evidently the centre of
immense admiration. So that Theoo's dignity
was established in these good Dutch minds,
and they all treated her and Gerald quite
like a prince and princess, standing round
and watching all their proceedings with grave
eyes.

They had intended to ride back to their
waggon in the moonlight, but when Bob
and Gerald went out to see after the horses,
great clouds were coming up in the dark
sky, and by-and-by a tremendous thunderstorm
broke over the veldt. The great cracks of
thunder were like a battle of artillery close

by ; the vivid flashes that flew from the sky-ran
in many colours along the ground ; and
then the rain came down, pelting, dashing,
tearing sheets of rain. The horses stood
trembling and frightened in their stable ;
animals and people crowded under any
shelter they could find. Gerald came back
to Theoo, where she sat in the kitchen, trying
to talk to the brightest-looking of the tall,
square daughters of the house.

''No getting back to our camp to-night,
Stirling says, you will have to stay where
you are."

She looked up at him with a little shiver.
Even her love of adventure, which was very
real, could hardly reconcile her to the ways
and the odours of a Boer farm. After the
freedom of the veldt, with its roof of stars,
or the familiar shelter of their own waggon,
she could not bear this close room, the smell

from its mud floor, the heavy thickness of
everything in it, beginning with its inhabitants.
And the good Boer wife, whip still in hand,
came back from the outer door, where she
had been looking at the storm, and holding a
short conversation with Mr. Stirling. As she
came she stumbled among pigs, and dogs, and
poultry.

'Voet seek ! " she said. 'get along
with you ! " and she shut the heavy door,
with the torrent of rain pouring outside,
and all her creatures within, and came to
Theoo, and taking her kindly by the handled
her into the guest-chamber at the end
of the living-room, which was very dark
and very grimy, and had a mud floor like
the rest, with an ancient smell hanging about
it, suggesting the heavy snoring slumbers
of the present Boer, his father, and his
grandfather.

Gerald had followed them to the door, and
as soon as their hostess had retreated, Theoo
turned to him in consternation.

''My dear Gerald, I shall be stifled.
You don't Imagine that I am going to sleep
here ? "

*' I suppose you must ; there is no help
for it," said Gerald.

'' But the heat, the stuffiness ! No, I
won't. What would you and Mr. Stirling
do If you were alone ? "

'ewe shouldn't stay, of course," said
Gerald. " But Bob says it might not be
safe for you to ride back now. It Is so
damp, you might get a chill, and get
fever. So I think you must content yourself
here for the night. It was a lucky
thing that storm didn't catch us in the open
veldt."

My dear boy, I mean what I say," said

Theoo calmly. '' I am not In the least
afraid of fever, or anything else, and I like
these nights away from Kimberley, and I
am not going to waste one of them here.
Now I believe the rain has stopped, and
the moon Is beginning to shine. Go and
tell Mr. Stirling that I want the horses to
be saddled at once. Oh no ; indeed I am
not going to stay here. Now, for once,
Gerald, you must let me have my own
way."

'' Is that anything new ? " said Gerald,
laughing. "Well, look here, these people
will think you a capricious sort of princess ;
and I hope they won't be offended, but
Bob must manage that. I'll go and tell
him."

Half an-hour later, as they rode away
through the warm wet air, over the wide,
moonlighted plain, all a pale steaming mist

after the rain, Theoo laughed very gaily and
triumphantly over her escape from that '' gast-hammer."


Gerald agreed that it was almost nastier
than anything they had met in Africa ; only
Bob was a little grave, and pressed the horses
on.

'' Nothing hurts me, you know," he said ;
'' Fm not afraid for myself, and Gerald
seems pretty tough ; but this atmosphere
is awfully unwholesome for you, Mrs. Fane."

Bob had spoken a good deal more strongly
before they left the farm, and had looked at
Gerald with surprise, mixed with a touch of
pity ; perhaps he thought that when he was
married, his wife would run no foolish risks
to please herself. His advice was wasted,
but not forgotten. It was connected in
Theoo's mind, sadly enough, with her last
day of real health and happiness in Africa 

that day when the ride to the Boer farm
had seemed such a pleasant variety.

Two or three nights later, the waggon
rumbled back again Into the camp, past the
Kafir fires outside, where the rhythmic dance
was going on as If it had never ceased, gay,
yet melancholy, to a dreamy song, with
clapping of hands and graceful moving intime.
The oxen made their way along the
dusty, uneven street, and Gerald lifted his
wife out of the waggon and carried her
into the house. She was burning with
fever now, and talking rather excitedly ;
most of the day she had been shivering
under that tropical sun. Combe met them
at the door ; she was as white as a sheet,
and seemed hardly able to drag herself along.

*why, you are ill too!" Mr. Stirling
said to her in a low voice ; for Gerald could
see nothing but Theoo.

A touch of fever, sir," said Combe ;
and then she looked up into the young
man's face and smiled bravely. *' I shall
be well now," she said.

"You're a brick!" said Bob, still aside.

Theoo's fever lingered on for many days ;
she was so weak that she could hardly move,
and through the long days and hours she
would lie gazing vacantly out at the
blue gum-trees in the compound, with Toby
at her feet. She never knew then of Combe's
illness, for the good woman kept her word
and got well, though she was terribly pulled
down ; but when Gerald was out of the house
she never left Theoo. Bob Stirling one day
brought an addition to the household in the
shape of a tall Zulu, called Adam, who was
to act as cook and housemaid, and sleep
with his head in the kitchen fire. At first,
Combe regarded him with disgust and dread,

but she soon found out that he was a faithful
dog, with many human talents added to his
dog virtues ; so Adam established himself.

The weeks till Christmas passed slowly
away. Mrs. Jackson, Mrs. Lee, all the kind
women who were Theoo's neighbours, and
all the young men who were her and Gerald's
friends, came constantly to see her, or to
ask for her, or to bring her some offering or
other. Mrs. Jackson's jellies were only rivalled
by her next-door neighbour's soup. Theoo
found then what she might have guessed
before  that Kimberley, with all its wildness,
and rowdyism, and vulgarity, holds some of
the kindest hearts in the world. She had
hardly ever been ill in her life, and did not
understand it, but she bore it very patiently ;
her eyes used to brighten, and her cheeks
flush when she heard Gerald's step outside.
On Christmas Day he carried her into

the drawing-room, to the funny old sofa there.
She lay wearily watching the eddies of red
dust that whirled about the camp, the coolie
women in their white veils going to church,
the Malays in their gorgeous turbans  all the
varied figures of the strange place where she
lived. Gerald came and sat down beside her,
and she stroked his forehead and his hair with
a very thin, white hand.

"Well," she said, 'how is your claim
getting on? Have you had good luck . "

It was the first time that she had alluded
to his new occupation. Just before their
expedition, by Bob Stirling's advice, he had
bought a half claim from a man who was going
home to England. All the arrangements,
the machinery, the setting his Kafirs to
work, the sorting, the paying, had been
horrible bores while Theoo was so ill ; but
Bob had helped him through everything.

However, not a single large stone had turned
up yet. He brought out some small ones to
amuse her, but she just glanced at them, and
let them fall back into their little box again.
He looked at her, and there were tears in
his eyes in spite of himself; he took her hand
and kissed it, and looked at it curiously, it was
so thin.

** I am very sorry, dear ; you must forgive
me; it was all my doing," she said. "Grand-mamma
always used to say that I should
bring myself to a bad end by obstinacy.
Do you know, Gerald, I have had such
odd dreams all this time. Grandmamma
has been with me a great deal, and so very
kind. I wonder whether she ever thinks
of me .'* "

'' Of course she does," said Gerald half
indignantly.

*' Yes, I know she does. Last Christmas

I was with her in the Square, and certainly
never expected that you would have brought
me here, you cruel boy ! And the Christmas
before was rather sad too  Uncle
Henry so ill. He has been very dear in
my dreams lately, and he and grand-mamma
did not seem to hate each other
so very much, after all. And Nell and
Hugh "

She shut her eyes for a minute, and
Gerald was half frightened, but she soon
looked up again, speaking very gently :

*will you do something to please meas
it is Christmas Day ? '"

Anything in the world."

Go and dine with Mr. Stirling and the
others, then. You didn't know, but I heard
him talking about it last night. Combe and
Toby will take care of me. I want you to
go, dear."

VOL. III. M

I would much rather stay with you''
said Gerald.

" I want you to go," she repeated. 'rand
it is not good for me to have you here
always ; you make me a little feverish, Combe
says ; it is ridiculous, but I believe she is
right. And it will be so nice to watch for
you coming home again."

That was indeed a strange Christmas Day ;
but Theoo was not so alone as she felt ; the
spirits of her friends who loved her were
not very far off The mail, a few days before,
had brought her a long letter from
Nell, and she had cried so sadly over it
that Combe, coming in, had taken it away ina
rage.

FAMILY COUNCILS.

'* It is such a stiff letter ; it tells one nothing,"
said Helen Goodall sorrowfully. '' Only just
saying that she is very weak, and the baby is
delicate. And in my last letter I begged her
so to tell me more about herself. All her
letters since Christmas have been short and
shakily written  and she has been ill, and
Combe has been ill, and they have had
a great deal of anxiety. And then for
several mails nothing at all ; and then this
scrap from Gerald Fane, just to announce the
baby. John says she has brought it all on

M 2

herself, and that I think about her too much,"
said Helen with tears in her eyes. *' Of
course she behaved like a dear beautiful old
goose, as she always was ; but you and I
can't forget our old Theoo because of that,
Hugh. I am sure I was cross enough at
first to please anybody."

Hugh North sighed.

She has not written to me for months,"
he said, 'except once, in the spring, about
selling out some money. I know how it is.
All her money has been poured into that
diamond-mine. No one had any control over
it but herself, and there were no settlements.
So nobody is to be blamed, I suppose."

'' People sometimes make great fortunes
out there, don't they ?" said Helen.

Gerald Fane won't," said her cousin.
'* Of course, though, we don't know. People
are silent for different reasons. They may begetting

so rich that they can afford to cut their
relations."

'' Is that Hke Theoo ? " said Helen, shaking
her head.

'rit Is not like either of them, I believe,"
said Hugh.

He had arrived from Scotland that September
day, on his way back from a month's
shooting with his friend Harry Campbell.
He and Helen were now strolling about the
Woodcote garden before dinner, waiting for
John to come In. A small nursery cavalcade
was to be seen In the distance  Master
Goodall, fat and sleepy. In his perambulator ;
his little sister of two months old In her
nurse's arms.

Helen herself was not chanQcd at all ;
she looked as soft and pretty as ever, and
was perhaps rather more lazy In her
movements.

Hugh looked thin and worn, and much
older ; he was burnt by the long hot summer,
and his hair had a tinge of gray at the
temples.

The second post that day had brought
Gerald's short cool letter, telling Mrs. Goodall
of the birth of his son. His wife wished
them to hear of it, he said ; she would write
herself when she was stronger.

All that evening Helen could talk of
nothing but Theoo. Hugh was in perfect
sympathy with her. John was rather dry at
first ; he had been very angry last summer
with what he thought Theoo's heartless ingratitude,
as well as madness ; but even he could
not help listening with interest to the talk
of the cousins.

Theoo had never said much in her letters
about her life at Kimberley, yet Hugh was
perfectly informed on the subject ; he had

read everything, had picked up every scrap
of information about South Africa in general
and the Diamond Fields in particular. All
this was solely for his own satisfaction ; but
now he became suddenly quite a talkative
man, and told Nell a hundred things that
she wanted to know.

*' Poor old fellow ! it's quite touching, isn't
it ? " said Mrs. Goodall that night to her
husband.

''I am uncommonly amused by the way
he tries to make the best of it all," said John.
''He won't even let me say that Theoo did
a foolish thing."

"He always thought her perfection, and
he always will," said Helen. '' He and I and
Uncle Henry were the only people whoever
understood Theoo."

'what about her husband?"

I know nothing about him."

Well, you are very contemptuous ; but
I always rather liked poor Fane," said John
thoughtfully. " Mind you, he was the last
man to be weighed down with the anxiety
of a wife and children."

" I wish he was a bachelor again with all
my heart," said Helen.

Hugh North went back to London, and
having written a short letter of congratulation
to Theoo, tried to find some interest in
his daily life and work ; but the effort was a
failure. He felt misanthropic ; he was both
mentally and physically unwell, and suspected
that he had overworked himself in Scotland.
Theoo thought of Theoo haunted him in a way
that was becoming almost terrible to this
calm, strong man.

If Helen was anxious and unhappy about
her, what was he . If Helen suspected that
things were going wrong, that illness and trouble

had come to Theoo, of which she told them Httle
or nothing  and if he In his heart agreed with
Helen, if his fears went even beyond hers 
what could he do, what was his duty as
Theoo's most faithful friend ? She had not
kept her promise of writing to him, and telling
him everything, but perhaps he ought not to
wonder at that.

Then sometimes he told himself that he
was a morbid fool, and that most likely Theoo
was too happy to remember him at all. Why
should she want him ? She had her husband,
who, of course, was enough for her. From
her earliest days, if Theoo had one creature
she loved, she wanted nothing more. Hugh
tried to think of her faults ; he wished to
convince himself that she was fickle, and
selfish, and indifferent, and forgetful ; then
he gave up the absurd attempt suddenly,
and his anxiety about her became more

feverish than ever. It was too horrid to hear
nothing, to be in this deep ignorance of anything
but the bare facts of her Hfe.

And then one day, walking in London,
he found himself near Lady Redcliff's house,
and it struck him as possible that Theoo might
have written to her grandmother.

He disliked Lady Redcliff heartily, but
Theoo, he knew, had always been strangely
fond of her ; and though they had quarrelled,
he thought it not unlikely that they might
write to each other now. The chance was
not to be thrown away.

He went to the house, and as he stood
at the door, he remembered the last time he
had been there  that day when Theoo sent
him away. He bore her no malice for that,
as she knew very well ; but the recollection
added a little extra stiffness and gravity to
his manner when the butler took him upstairs,

and he found himself walking into the old
drawing-room. He could not help giving a
glance at the window where Theoo used to
sit, where she got up to receive him with her
faint, weary, absent smile.

Some girl was there now ; he did not at
first see who it was, but not Theoo  never
again Theoo, he thought, with a cold weight
at his heart, and then he gravely shook hands
with Lady Radcliffe

This is funny ! Who told you to come ? "
she said, looking at him sharply.

There she sat in her great chair, blackcap
and all, her eyes as bright as ever ; the
year and a half  or ten years, was it . 
had not altered her in the least. Hugh,
with all his coolness, was slightly confused
by his reception. But as Lady Redcliff did
not look savage, he smiled a little, and
answered :

'' I ought to have called long ago, but I
have been out of town lately, and "

'' Don't apologise ; I did not expect
to see you," said Lady Redcliff. " Why
have you come now ? To inquire after
Theoo ? "

'well, I thought It possible that you
might have heard from her. I suppose you
know "

Miss Fane has been telling me that she
has a nephew, and that I am a great-grandmother.
She expected me to be
pleased," said Lady Redcliff. '' Do you
know Miss Fane ? "

I beg your pardon  the room is dark,
and I never thought of finding you here,"
said Hugh, turning to Ada, who rose up
smiling from Theoo's corner, though her eyes
were full of tears.

On the table, between her and Lady

Redcllff, some sheets of a foreign letter were
lying. Hugh's eyes fell on them, and then
he looked quickly again at Ada.

'news from Africa?" he said, half under
his breath.

'' This bold child has ventured into the
witch's cave," said Lady Redcliff in her
most cheerful tones, " to bring a ridiculous
rigmarole of a letter that came from her
brother yesterday. What she did it for, I
can't conceive, as she knows that Theoo and
I quarrelled mortally. I was just telling her
that she ought to have gone to you."

'" Please, Captain North, will you read the
letter," said Ada, pushing it towards him, "and
tell me if there is anything I can do ? "

*' Read it to us," said Lady Radcliffe
This girl does nothing but choke, and I
can't pretend to read Mr. Fane's writing on
that detestable paper."

Hugh struggled through the letter as
clearly as he could. It did not read well ;
Gerald had written it in great trouble of
mind, and under circumstances, poor fellow !
that must have been very confusing. All the
first part was a story of money difficulties ;
nearly all their capital was gone, thrown away
in working that claim of his, which in all these
months had never even begun to pay its
expenses. Ill-luck had been with him from
first to last ; his Kafirs, no doubt, had robbed
him, though nothing could be proved. Bills
were tremendous, and could only be paid by
sacrificing more capital. Doctor's bills were
the most trying. Theoo had been miserably out
of health ever since the winter, with constant
returns of fever ; she had been away to the
Vaal River, but the change had done her
very little good. She was always nursing
other people and fussing after them. Combe

had been ill, too ; he had been ill himself,
and if his friend Stirling had not helped him,
his affairs would quite have gone to smash.
He believed that Theoo ought to go home to
England, but if there was no other reason
against it, he did not see how they could
possibly afford the journey. And now there
was the baby, too.

** Everybody is awfully kind," wrote Gerald,
'rand Combe has worked herself to death.
At first I know they all thought Theoo
would not get over it, but she told them
she would, and really it would be too
awful to die here. This is the most
dreadful place on the surface of the earth, and
I think I should have gone mad long ago, if
it had not been for Theoo. If she dies, she
knows what will be the end of it. And all the
time luck may change any day, and one may
find a big stone or two that will set everything

right. It seems foolish to sell the claim when
that may happen tomorrow. We must try to
hold on a little longer. The clergyman
here is a nice fellow. We had the baby
baptized at once, because he was so small,
and called him after me  at least, his
name is Gerald Hugh, according to Theoo's
wish. He is such a funny little chap, red
all over. I am holding him at this moment,
while Combe attends to Theoo. He clenches
his little fist, and looks very grave over it
all. They say he is weakly ; no wonder,
I'm sure ; and he thinks he might have come
into a pleasant world, I know, for he spends
most of his time crying. I wrote to tell
Mrs. Goodall of his birth, as Theoo thought
her people ought to know, and I believe
by-and-by she means to write to Lady Redcliff,
whom she always seems to have tremendous
faith in "

Here Hugh broke off suddenly, and Lady
Redcliff laughed. Ada held out her hand
eagerly, and took the letter ; there were only a
few words more. For a minute or two nobody
spoke ; then the girl looked at Hugh, colouring
scarlet, and said, with a quiver in her voice :

Of course you know I am perfectly
helpless, and poor Gerald sent me some
money in this letter. I have asked Mrs.
Keene, where I live, to find me something
to do. I would have done it long ago, but
Gerald never told me of any difficulties. I
can do nothing for him  but can't you do
something for Theoo '. Can't we get them
home to England ? "

'ewe will," said Hugh very quietly.

Oh, thank you  thank you ! " cried Ada,
and she hid her face, and burst into tears.

'* Good gracious ! " exclaimed Lady Red-cliff,
with a sharp slap on the arm oi her

VOL. ni.

chair. " This is unbearable. If you can't
control yourself, go into the next room at
once. It is quite enough to hear of a squalling
baby in Africa."

Ada quieted herself suddenly, her blue
eyes fixed on the old lady in open astonishment.
Hugh could hardly help smiling.

"Yes ; sit in the corner and be quiet," said
Lady Redcliff. 'ras to you, Captain North,
you are as foolish as this girl. What do you
mean by saying that you will bring these fools
home to England ? They must take the consequences
of their folly."

' I don't think so," said Hugh in. his
gravest manner.

'' But I do. Is it not very true, what the
idiot says in his letter, that luck may turn
any day, and he may be a rich man ? What
an amusing sort of trade it must be! Gambling,
and nothing else."

** Theoo can't stay there," said Hugh.
** Her health will be entirely ruined."

'' Don't you suppose she knew that before
she went ? I warned her of everything that
would happen to her. She didn't care. She
gave up health, position, prospects, everything
in the world, even to her grandmother and
her cousins, unnatural creature ! for the sake
of that man, simply, as I told her, because
he had handsome eyes. Yes, Miss Fane 
you need not mind my saying so. Yours are
not at all like them."

"She may have given up her relations''
said Hugh ; '' but they have not given up her.
Something must be done."

'' Speak for yourself, please," said Lady
Redcliff. ** What are you going to do ' You
can't take Theoo away from her husband.
She wouldn't come."

*' I must think," said Hugh, looking down.

N 2

He feared and hated Lady Redcliff; he was
very unhappy, deeply in earnest, and her
sharpness did not amuse him. He felt that
the next moment she might tell his dearest
secret, if she knew it, to Ada Fane and all
the world ; and he had a suspicion that she
did know it, from the mischievous tone of
her last words, and the flash of her eyes that
accompanied them. "If we could find something
for Mr. Fane to do in England," he
said presently, looking across at Ada, with a
consciousness that Lady Redcliff was laughing
at him.

He thought it was impossible to find
anything," sighed Ada. " But perhaps you
could "

Hugh looked down at his hat, frowning
dismally. It struck him that he had better
go away and think it over. This heartless
old woman only made everything seem more

dreadful, and the poor girl could not possibly
be any help. He was just going to get up
and say 'good-bye" to them both for the
present, when Lady Redcliff asked suddenly :

'rare you ill, Captain North?"

"Perfect well, thank you," Hugh answered
stiffly.

'That's a pity," said Lady Redcliff. ' If
you were as ill as you look, you might get
sick-leave, "end make a little tour on the continent
of Africa, by way of going to a healthy
jDlace."

Hugh lifted his eyes and looked Lady
Redcliff straight in the face. She always had
a mocking air, of course ; but somehow, just
then she did not look quite so disagreeable
as usual.

'-' What good could I do ? " he said. " I
am not well. I believe I could get an
extension of leave if I asked for it. But

should I be of any use to Theoo if I went
out now ? "

*' You would like to see her ! " said Lady
Redcliff, with another flash of mischief; but
before he had time to make any answer, she
looked at Ada and said : " My dear, I think
you had better go away now. Leave your
letter with me, if you don't mind. I will send
for you when I want you again  tomorrow
or next day. Now I want to talk to Captain
North alone."

She spoke quite kindly and civilly, and
Ada, of course, at once obeyed. When she
was gone. Lady Redcliff began to talk to
Hugh in earnest.

"You and I have never been friends,"
she said. " I always disliked your family ;
you are good people, most of you, and I
detest good people. Theoo and I used to
quarrel about you. What a temper she had,

to be sure ! I wonder if there is any of it
left now ? "

*' I hope so," said Hugh drearily ; he did
not much care whether Lady Redcliff liked
him or not.

'eyes, she used to stand up for you," the
grandmother went on, 'rand her eyes used
to be all on fire when I called you names.
Well, my poor Theoo ! Cousins are dangerous
people. Captain North, and even now, in
spite of all these misfortunes, I would rather
she had married Gerald Fane."

Do you know. Lady Redcliff, you are
saying rather extraordinary things 1 " said
Hugh, starting up. " I may as well go.
This African matter wants thinking about."

Don't be angry, my friend," said Lady
Redcliff. " I was not blind, if Theoo was,
and you may be sure she never told me
anything."

Hugh turned white, and walked across
to the window.

*' Don't go back to that old story now,"
he said hastily. " Let me do something now.
What shall I do ? What were you going
to say ' I thought you had some plan in
your head."

"We will come to that by-and-by," said
Lady Redcliff. '' The first question is, will
you go to this dreadful place ? Somebody
must go, and I suppose I am rather too
old."

*'0f course I'll go," said Hugh eagerly:
there is not much doubt of my managing
that, I think."

"Very well, only don't get the fever,"
said Lady Redcliff; "and understand this, you
are going as a messenger from me."

I don't quite understand."

Why, you foolish man," she said very

impatiently, " what right have you to go out
there and interfere in the affairs of these
Fanes, and insist on putting an end to all
that diamond-digging rubbish, and bringing
them home in spite of themselves  what right
have you ? Less than none, I think, and so
will Theoo. Will she take money from you
for her journey, for instance ? "

'that is a detail," said Hugh.

'' Rather an important one, you will find.
No ; you must go from me, and the sooner
the better  next week."

I will try what I can do," said Hugh
quietly.

Very well. Sit down ; don't make me
nervous, and read the early part of Gerald's
letter again  not all that stuff about the baby."

At last, after a long consultation, and after
telling him several old stories, among them
that of her own early interest In the Fanes,

Lady Redcliff allowed her ambassador to go.
He walked away from the house with new
life and spirit ; a strange unreasoning happiness
had taken possession of his mind. Theoo
could not forbid him to go to her, and then
he remembered how she had asked him to
go, and how he had answered like a fool that
he preferred civilisation. Where was the
desert now, the wilderness, where life was not
worth living  in Africa, or England ?

DARKNESS IN SUNSHINE.

A KILLING climate, failing health, and increasing
poverty ; months of daily suspense,
and daily disappointment ; a future that begins
to have no hope in it, no light to lead
one on, but only a darkness from which
human nature cannot help shrinking ; this
state of things makes young romance grow
old, so that its bright flame dies down into
ashes and weariness.

Theoo was not superhuman, and the chief
thought in her mind that summer was,
How is it to end ? Not that she had lost

courage, for she would never let Gerald
despair, and when she was most ill, mind
and body both worn out with fever, some
new strength had come to her, and made
it impossible to give in and die. She could
not leave Gerald alone there ; she could
not let him leave her behind, when some
day the time came for him to go back to
England, to that dear home country which
she could hardly think of now without
tears. One can easily understand why she
wrote such short letters to Helen and
Hugh ; she could not bear them to know
what sort of life she was leading. Sometimes
she thought that some day, when
she felt stronger, she would write a letter
to her grandmother, and tell her everything
; but that day did not come. And
when she was a little better, Gerald always
wanted her, or Combe was ill and must

be nursed, or some sick neighbour must be
visited.

And now the baby had opened his eyes
on this dry, dusty, dazzling world ; and he
did not like it, as Gerald told Ada in that
letter, which would have vexed Theoo if she
had read it. He was the smallest, weakest,
saddest baby that ever cried his first hours
away ; but he made his mother strangely
happy ; he was never out of her sight for a
moment, and almost always in her arms. She
thought he cried less when she was holding
him, and bending her face over him ; his dark,
melancholy eyes looked up into hers, and she
thought he could understand all the mysterious
fancies that were in her mind about him, and
feel all the love that was in her heart.

She did not see or know that the doctor
and all the good women shook their heads
over him, and was only a little amused at

the extreme gravity with which Bob Stirling
regarded him when he saw him for the first
time. She looked up smiling, puzzled by
Bob's unusual solemnity.

Do you think he Is like anybody ? Is he
like Gerald ? " she said.

'* I don't know, Mrs. Fane. I suppose he
Is like a little angel," said Bob. "I'm awfully
afraid Kimberley won't agree with him."

'' But that Is just what I think," she said,
answering the first part of his speech. ''He
will be like Gerald by-and-by, but now he has
only that solemn angel look, as If he saw such
wonderful things that we can't see. He will
come down to us presently, and forget them,
I am afraid."

'' * Trailing clouds of glory,' " Bob muttered,
and then he coloured very much, and went
away as soon as he could into the dust and
the sun-blaze.

He walked off gravely to his sorting, thinking
of something the doctor had said to him
the day before.

He was very sorry for his friends. He
could have afforded quite well to go home
to England, any time this year, but somehow
he could not bear to go, leaving them
to sink deeper and deeper In misfortune ;
and he reproached himself now for having
advised Gerald to have anything to do with
diamonds. The poor fellow was unlucky
that was plain ; even his wife's sorting
brought no good fortune to him ; he was
known throughout the camp as an unlucky
man, and he knew It himself, and was
becoming a little desperate. Bob Stirling
sympathised very strongly with Mrs. Fane,
when she wished they were all away from
Kimberley ; he thought he knew even better
than she did how almost necessary it was

for Gerald to get away ; but to Gerald
himself that seemed Impossible. Theoo was
too weak, and too much devoted to her
baby, to argue with him much ; yet sometimes
there were arguments In which, of
course, neither of them convinced the other.
Then Gerald was very Irritable, and then
penitent ; and Theoo, perhaps, would make
things worse by being a little proud and
cold ; and somehow It was not only outward
circumstances that made them both unhappy.
He, perhaps, was the unhappiest of the two ;
she did not think, as he sat and looked at
her with little Gerald In her arms, what wild,
despairing thoughts where passing through the
poor fellow's mind. And a year ago, he and
she both thought that one could have
nothing apart from the other ! Now it seemed
as if his one passion was for diamonds, hers
for her baby. Was it possible ? Could little

Gerald really, in his innocence, be a sort of
separation between his father and mother ?

One day Gerald came home as usual,
and walked heavily into the half-dark room.
He was very thin, and worn, and sunburnt ;
his eyes were hollow ; his digger's clothes
looked rough and careless ; he was tired and
slouching, and half stumbled at the door.

'' Take care, dear ; you'll wake him," said
Theoo softly from the sofa.

Gerald muttered something, and flung his
hat into a corner, and himself into a large
chair at the other side of the room.

** Come here," said Theoo ; '' are you very
tired, poor boy ? "

*' Of course," he said ; but he did not
move ; and presently she said in a low
voice : ''J can't come to you, because I
don't want to disturb him ; he has been
crying all day."

VOL, nr. o

He never does anything but cry, poor
little beggar ! " said Gerald. " I wonder
the doctor can't stop that ; It's perfectly
awful."

Theoore might be things," said Theoo, " but
Combe says they wouldn't agree with him.
He is so weak, you see  so delicate."

I believe Combe knows nothing on earth
about babies."

Theoo did not answer ; It was not worth
while to defend Combe's knowledge ; but
presently she asked the usual question :

'have you any good news to-day?"

I should have told you long ago if I
had," said Gerald.

There was a long pause, and then she
said :

I wonder how this will end, Gerald ?
A month ago, when I told you I could not
keep him here when it was hot, you said

we must wait a month, and then decide
something. I'm sure the heat is already
bad for him. Mrs. Jackson says so  and,
Gerald, she was here this afternoon, and she
said he grew smaller every day."

Her voice failed, leaving a sort of sad
echo in the room. There she lay on the
large dark sofa, all white, holding her baby
in her arms ; his little face was pinched and
wasted, his tired little eyelids were closed ;
he looked patient, poor tiny thing ! but hardly
peaceful or happy ; it was only a few minutes'
rest from the sorrow and pain that seemed to
have belonged to him ever since he was born.

** Don't let her bother you; it is his nature
to be small," said Gerald rather impatiently ;
and after a minute or two he added : ''He's
not so weak as you think. When I went off
this morning, he took hold of my finger and
held it like a mano

2

'gerald, you are such a long way off.
Do come here ! " said Theoo under her
breath.

'' I shall wake him if I do."

'every well, I can't help it."

He came to her very gently then, and
kissed her, and looked into the little sleeping
face ; and presently, in silence, went
lightly back to his chair again.

Sell it tomorrow, dear, and let us go
away," she said.

"Ah, that's all very fine," he answered
despairingly. " But what are we going to
live on ? And  look here  the man who
buys it will have all the good luck. He'll
find a big stone the very first day, and
go on finding them, and make his fortune
in a few months. And if he does, why
shouldn't I ? "

Simply because you don't," said Theoo.

'' That is such nonsense. Of course it is
despairing work  killing work, nothing but
failure day after day  who knows that if I
don't ? If it was a bad claim, there would
be reason in what you say. But it's a good
one, as you know ; the last fellow made his
fortune out of it, so why shouldn't I ? One
only wants patience."

Patience is such a dreadful thing," said
Theoo, half to herself.

"How can you be so childish?" said
Gerald, with a sort of groan, twisting himself
in his chair. "I'm doing all I can, the best I
can for you and him, and you won't even wait
to see what two or three months will bring."

Why should they bring anything more
than the last seven, or eight, or nine ? "

Because they must. It's impossible, it's
against reason that they shouldn't. It would
be madness to sell the claim now."

Madness ! " repeated Theoo. '' Sometimes
madness comes from staying here too long.
Do you remember that farm, Gerald ? "

He laughed.

*' It depends upon you to fulfil that prophecy
. " he said.

Theoo sighed. After a few minutes she
said :

'' If the claim is such a good one, you
would sell it well, and then we should be all
right."

It has a bad name now, you see," said her
husband. 'rit certainly would not pay me
anything like what I have spent upon it.
Stirling knows it wouldn't. Everybody knows
it would be ridiculous to attempt selling now.
I must stick to it. I'm sorry you hate it all
so desperately."

Am I unreasonable ? " said Theoo.

She did not try to argue with him or

persuade him any more, for she was very
tired. After all, she thought, as far as she
was concerned, it did not matter much.
She had lived through all these months of
fever and wretchedness, and she would probably
go on living ; she was not afraid now
that she would die. And if Gerald could
ever be happy and fortunate, and could
carry out what he had set his heart on,
perhaps it did not matter that her cheek had
lost its young roundness, and that her pretty
delicate colouring was gone for ever, and
that she looked and felt years, instead of
months, older than the girl who had left
England, full of eager, restless happiness,
to join him in this country. No, it did
not matter at all about her, but it did
matter about the baby ; the horrors of that
climate, the dust and the flies which she
had laughed at, became real horrors now

that they tormented him. She was uneasy
about him, though perhaps not really
anxious, for people had been too softhearted
to frighten her. She could not
bear the thought of her child growing up
in this country, a boy like other boys
she saw at KImberley. She talked to him
about it sometimes in confidence, for when
she said these things to Gerald he was
rather hurt and angry, and asked her if
she really thought he meant to stay at
Kimberley always.

After all, perhaps he was right in a certain
way. He thought of the future, and was
doing his best, as he said, for her and the
child ; it was her duty, then, to try and bear
the present for herself and him ; yet if Theoo
had been strong and independent still, if
that climate had not had its fatal effect upon
her mind and body, one can hardly imagine

that for any reason she would have consented
to stay.

However, after that evening she did not
say much more, and seemed more patient,
and tried to smile and encourage Gerald
when he came back day after day with the
same sad story of failure. About this time
she had another attack of fever, which left
her very weak ; and little Gerald grew
lighter and smaller every day, and cried
more than ever, when he could not lie in
his mother's arms. When she was getting
better she had a long affectionate letter from
Helen, full of the charms and health and
beauty of her two children. Theoo would
sympathise now, she thought. Theoo took
her own baby in her arms then, and laid
her face against his, and wetted his poor
little cheek with sad, hot tears which made
him cry.

One hot afternoon, when she was better,
but hardly strong enough to walk, Combe
was obliged to go out, and left her on the
sofa with the baby. She was alone In the
house, except that the faithful Zulu was
lying asleep in the sunniest corner of the
compound, and Toby, the dog, sat with one
eye open In the porch. Some Kafirs were
holding one of their feasts just outside the
camp, and there was a great noise of wild
music, and singing, and shouts, and yells,
which yet was not exactly a disturbing or
discordant noise, as it floated in at the open
door, and the windows with their Venetian
shutters.

The mail-cart from Cape Town had just
driven Into the camp, and one of its few
passengers, pale, worn, sunburnt, dizzy with
the extreme fatigue of that long journey
without pause or rest, asked his way through

the blazing streets to Mr. Fane's house.
Toby barked at him violently, as he came
up to the gate in the reed fence, and opened
it. The dog then changed his mind, smelt
at him and wagged his tail, with the instinct
of some dogs for their master's relations.
Hugh North steadied himself with one hand
against the porch, and waited a moment, peering
into the dark interior. He heard a low,
moaning sound, and saw a woman walking
up and down, with steady, measured steps,
which yet sometimes seemed to fail and totter
a little, as if she was almost losing command
over herself.

As Hugh's dazzled eyes became used to
the darkness, he saw that it was Theoo, and
that she had a baby in her arms. He thought
there was something very strange in her look,
and manner, and way of walking ; and in
that great heat he turned suddenly cold, and

shivered all over, and wished he had gone
first to the mine to find Gerald Fane, and
to hear how she was, instead of startling herby
his unexpected arrival.

And yet how he had hurried to reach her !
how even the mail-cart with its frantic, dashing
haste and bustle, which frightened ordinary
travellers, had not been half quick enough
for him !

He stood still for a minute, afraid to go
forward or to attract her attention ; but she
very soon saw him and came to the doorway
with the child in her arms. Hugh looked at
her, and saw in a moment every detail of
that terrible change  so it was to him. Yet
Theoo was looking curiously brilliant that
afternoon ; her eyes were shining with their
beautiful brown light, her cheeks and lips
were burning red. She smiled with pleasure
as she met Hugh, and gave him her right

hand, and held up her face to kiss him ; the
touch of her hand and of her Hps was Hke
fire.

'' Come in, dear Hugh ; I am so glad," she
said. *' Are you starving ? Have you come
from London to-day ? Combe will be in very
soon, and you shall have some dinner. Sit
down ; that's Gerald's chair, he will be so
glad to see you in it. And how is Uncle
Henry and Nell?"

By this time Hugh had quite forgotten
his fatigue, his hunger, in the inexpressible
terror of looking at Theoo and listening to
her. It was fever, he felt sure  thank God,
only fever!  which, of course, gave her the
strength to walk up and down in that restless
way. He was only thankful that she was
not too delirious to know him. He sat down
for a moment, as she told him, and watched
her pacing up and down. Now and then

she bent her face over the baby and moaned
a little ; the baby lay quite still  asleep, he
thought. He wished she would sit down, but
hardly knew, at first, what to say to her.

'' Nell is very well, thanks ; she sent her
love to you, and so did Lady Redcliff  at
least I think so," he said, trying to speak
lightly. '' And I saw Miss Fane before I
left ; she sent a number of messages. You
see I have accepted your invitation, Theoo.
And where's Mr. Fane ? At his work, I
suppose."

She hardly seemed to hear his slow, gentle
voice at all.

"I do wish grand mamma knew all about
it," she said, after a pause. *' She would be
very angry at first, but not really, and we
might go abroad and forget it. Do you
know  it is so funny  I sometimes forget
where I am."

'' You were always rather absent," said
Hugh. '' But I must say, with a sun Hke
this beating down on one's head, it would
be difficult to ignore Africa."

Then there was another pause, a long
one this time. He could not sit still ; he
began to wonder when her husband or
Combe would come in, to relieve him from
the awful strain of this meeting. As she
paced up and down, he got up, and stepped
forward as she passed him.

** Won't you be tired, Theoo ? Hadn't
you better sit down ? " he said, with a little
of his old gentle authority.

She lifted her beautiful wild eyes to his
face, as he stood close to her ; then they fell
again on her baby.

''He likes me to walk about ; it sends
him to sleep," she said.

But he is asleep now," said Hugh.

'fast asleep, my little child," she murmured.
*' He is not crying now. Gerald says he always
cries. But look at him, Hugh ; did you ever
see him so quiet and peaceful ? He really is
smiling ; he looks as if he would never cry
any more."

She trembled and tottered a little as she
stood. Hugh put out his arm to support her,
and she leaned against him for a moment,
pressing the baby closer.

'soh, Hugh," she whispered, "you don't
know what he is, or what things we tell each
other."

Hugh hardly heard what she said, for he,
too, was looking intently down into the baby's
face. It was, indeed, a peaceful little face,
white as marble, and motionless ; and there
was something on the tiny wasted features
which might be called a smile. And as Hugh
looked, and felt the mother tremble as she held

her sleeping child, there came into his mind
the strange, solemn conviction that she had
spoken the truth when she said that little
Gerald would never cry again.

*' My poor Theoo ! " he thought ; but he
kept himself perfectly calm, and, to make quite
sure, he touched the baby's little hand with his
finger, and did not, by any start or exclamation,
betray that the life was no longer in it.

Listen to me, dear Theoo," he said very
low and gravely. " I know you have been
ill, and it is not good for you to stand and
walk about so long. Now, will you sit down,
and let me hold the baby, and walk about with
him ? You must not forget that he is my
godson, Theoo."

She made no resistance, but let him guide
her to the sofa, and let him take the child into
his arms, and sank back almost unconscious
on her pillows.

VOL. III. p

Now he is in my care," said Hugh in
the same low voice, ' and you are to He still
and rest while I take him to Combe. Then
I shall come back and talk to you."

He left her, and walked on into the
dining-room.

Combe," he said, " where are you ? "

But there was no answer. Plainly, there
was no one in the house but himself and
Theoo. He looked round him with a wild
anxiety, not daring to carry the child back
into the room where she was. It seemed
to him that she was on the verge of brain-fever,
and that a sudden shock might be
terrible. How she was to be told he did
not know ; he did not dare to think. He
saw another door, and went on through it
into the bed-room beyond. There he saw the
baby's tiny white cot, and gently laid him
down. He felt the little heart, but it was

still ; tried vainly and hopelessly to call back
the life that was gone. No ; little Gerald
had found the world too painful, even In his
mother's arms, and had gone back, a pure
baby-spirit, to the peace from which he came.
Hugh North's eyes were burning with tears
when he turned away from him, afraid to
stay too long, and met Combe at the door.
She was rushing In wild amazement, for her
mistress had told her that Captain North
had carried the child away, and Combe,
thinking that this was only a feverish fancy,
flew to look for him. Hugh held up his
hand to keep her quiet.

'rit was over before I came," he whispered.

He went back Into the drawing-room,
where Theoo was talking to herself In low,
sweet tones, rather Indistinctly, moaning and
sighing now and then. Hugh had forgotten
all about himself; he was now thinking

o
P 2

poor Gerald Fane, and wishing to go out and
meet him ; but he could not leave Theoo alone.
Then quick steps came near the door, and a
cheerful whistling, which silenced itself as they
approached nearer, and then Gerald almost
darted into the house, and sprang across the
room to his wife, holding out something in his
hand.

" There, what do you say now ? Who
was right, after all ? Two big stones, the
least of them over six carats ! If you and
he were strong enough, we would be off to
Barkly tomorrow. I don't care what I do,
now that the luck has turned."

He had knelt down beside his wife's sofa,
not seeing, in his eagerness, in that darkened
room, that any one else was there. She put
out both her hands, and laid them round his
neck, drawing him close to her, and to Hugh's
intense surprise, she said very distinctly :

*' He will never cry again."

'what do you mean ?" said Gerald.

Ask Hugh ; he knows," she said.

But Hugh had sprung up from his chair
and gone out into the porch ; he felt as if he
could not bear any more.

BROUGHT HOME.

Hugh never knew, and could never be sure
in his own mind, whether Theoo had known
that her baby was dead when he first arrived
at the house. He was inclined to think
so ; but he had no time to puzzle himself
about that till long afterwards. It seemed
as if he had come to Africa only to have
his heart wrung by saying " good-bye ' to his
cousin ; for after the baby had been taken
away from her, and Gerald, and Hugh, and
Bob Stirling had followed him to his grave
in the desolate cemetery  a place that Hugh

could never think of without an involuntary
shudder  Theoo lay for days so ill with fever
that she knew none of them, and the doctor
told them that he did not think she could
recover. But she did recover  very slowly,
very sadly, as if it was a terrible weariness
to be dragged back into life again. As soon
as it was possible to move her, Gerald took
her away to the river, leaving his Kimberley
affairs in the hands of Bob Stirling and
Hugh. The claim was sold  that miserable
claim, to which one life had already been
sacrificed, and the house, and the furniture,
and the horses ; for the doctor said that Mrs.
Fane must go home to England, and Gerald
was only too glad, now, to escape from that
terrible place and that terrible country. Africa
had, indeed, shown him now her dark, her
awful side ; the freedom and grandeur of her
life seemed now to be mere shadows ; or

the freedom was unlimited despair, and the
grandeur was that of an Iron, crushing fate.
At this time one of Theoo's wishes was
realised ; Gerald and Hugh began to like
each other. Hugh quiet considerateness
had a soothing effect on Gerald, who was
half wild, poor fellow ! with grief and
anxiety. Hugh was very sorry for him,
when he looked round at Kimberley and
its inhabitants, and remembered how the
young man had banished himself here,
feeling that he must leave England for no
fault of his own. There must be something
in him, Hugh concluded, having the fairest
mind in the world. Theoo, after all, would
hardly have loved a worthless fellow withall
the strength of her noble nature as she
had loved Gerald, even to following him
here. Hugh thought that if he had himself
realised the tenth part of what it meant,

going out to Africa, he would have moved
heaven and earth to stop Theoo's going.

But as it was, he was glad to be able
to assure himself that her devotion had not
been quite wasted ; she had probably saved
this fellow from utter shipwreck ; for though
there was a certain boyish clearness of
character about Gerald, which Hugh liked
and appreciated as he came to know him
better, he saw that his mind was not that
of a very strong man. His passionate love
and anxiety for Theoo, mixed, as it seemed,
with something like remorse; his dread and
agony at any hint of danger, made Hugh
moralise a little, wondering what would have
happened to the fellow if she had never
belonged to him at all.

When Kimberley was done with at last,
and she was just well enough to travel, they
drove down in a cart of their own to the

railway. The weather was tremendously hot ;
the parched plains glowed red and yellow
under the glowing sky ; it was impossible to
travel in the heat of the day, and Hugh
was sometimes afraid that they had moved
Theoo too soon. But she did not think so
herself, and did not seem to feel the heat much.
She noticed nothing by the way, and spoke
very little. She did not sleep much, but lay
back in a sort of indifferent dream, very sad,
with half closed eyes, hardly aware of any one
but Gerald.

When he touched her hand, she would lookup
into his face and smile  Hugh thought
he would rather have seen tears than such
a smile. Since the day little Gerald died, she
had never once spoken of him, never shown by
any sign that she missed him. Hugh almost
feared sometimes that she had lost her memory ;
but Combe did not think so.

At Cape Town she stayed a few days
with Mrs. Forester, to rest after her
journey ; and with her she was just the
same  gentle, sad, silent, receiving all her
friend's tender care with a sort of peaceful
indifference, only restless when Gerald was
away.

Mrs. Forester, who could have given her
such perfect sympathy, saw that it was no
use offering it, but she talked to Hugh and
comforted him, and told him that time and
England would be the only cure.

Theoo awoke at last from her long dream,
and found herself in her grandmother's 
one cold, foggy afternoon in early
spring. She was on the sofa, covered with
a fur rug. Lady RedclifT was in her own
old chair opposite. Just now, Gerald and
Ada had been in the room ; Ada sitting on
a footstool by Theoo, silent, and holding her

hand ; Gerald answering all manner of questions
which Lady Redcliff was asking him
about Africa. Lady Redcliff seemed to like
Gerald very much ; she watched him with
twinkling eyes, and said nothing ill-natured.
When he and Ada had gone out together,
she sat smiling oddly to herself for a minute
or two. At last she said in a sharp little
voice :

Thank you, Theoo ; I'm very much
obliged to you, my dear."

*' What for, grand mamma '. " said Theoo.

Can't I make a remark 1 " said Lady
Redcliff. " Don't catechise  don't be priggish,
like your excellent cousin. Well, so
you are quite strong now, are you ? "

'' Oh yes," said Theoo wearily. 'the cold
agrees with me. I wish I had always been
cold'* And she shivered as she spoke.

'' You always used to be  an icicle, except

when you were in a rage," said her grandmother.
'' It was a bad business going out
to that murderous climate  about the worst
piece of mischief I ever did in my Hfe.
Don't you think so ? "

No ; I don't know "

"You and Gerald are two of the silliest
fools I ever met," said Lady Redcliff. 'you
know it was all my fault, and yet you areas
friendly to me as if I was the dearest and
kindest relation in the world."

''So you are," said Theoo quietly. *who
else would have thought of sending for us
home ? Grandmamma," she said, and she
opened her eyes, and a strange, beautiful
light seemed to shine in her face, 'you love
me better than anybody in the world, and
I love you."

"What nonsense you talk!" said Lady
Redcliff, giving her a quick glance, and looking

down. 'why, Theoo  after all you have
suffered  and you can't Imagine that I cared
about It all."

I don't imagine  I know," said Theoo.
** And I am very glad that he and I were
out there together. We belong to each
other  more than any one here can understand.
If there are depths out there, the
heights are just as wonderful. There is only
one thing  if I could have shown you my
baby "

Lady Redcliff looked at her sharply ; she
suspected rightly that this was the first time
Theoo had mentioned her baby.

*' Ah, poor little fellow ! " she said, in a
strange, soft voice. '* And yet, do you know,
my dear, I have been capable of wishing that
at least one or two of my children had died
when they were babies. I don't enter into
any doctrines or imaginations about them 

that you understand ; but your boy, everyday
he lives, he belongs to you less. If
you lose him very soon, you lose him at
any rate before he has loved any one but
you."

It was an odd sort of consolation, and
perhaps Theoo did not quite hear it or take
it in ; but she began to tell her grandmother
all about the baby, crying softly now
and then".

Lady Redcliff listened with wonderful
patience and kindness, presently moving
to a chair by Theoo's side, and laying her
cold little wrinkled hand on her forehead.

" Now look here, child," she said presently,
when Theoo was calmer, '' you have had enough
trial and trouble for the years you have lived,
it seems to me. When I told you just now
that I was very much obliged to you, had you
the faintest idea what I meant ? "

'you had been talking to Gerald, and
I thought you might mean that you were
obliged to me for him," said Theoo with a
happy smile, looking up into the old face
beside her.

That is exactly what I did mean," said
Lady Redcliff, nodding. " And now I want
to know what you are going to do with
that poor young man in future ? Not set
him to some stupefying work again, I
hope ? "

"He must find something to do ; we
have spent all our money."

"Yes; you seem to have behaved like a
wonderful pair of idiots. But I warned you
long ago that he couldn't work. He was
not born to make money, but to spend it.
I told you so before, and you knew quite
well I was right. Now, do you see what I
am driving at ? "

*' Not quite," said Theoo.
*' Then you are blind. You and he are
my children. He must do nothing, and
you must have this house for your home.
Ah yes, I know you used to be frightfully
bored here, but it won't be so bad, perhaps,
now that you have him. You needn't look
disgusted. I'll make him a good allowance''

But, grand mamma  thank you so much 
but he could not ! " exclaimed Theoo, quite
roused by this startling proposal.

'why not? I have nothing to do with
the Norths," said Lady Redcliff rather angrily,
bringing a sudden flush of colour into Theoo's
face.

"He could not," she repeated.

*' He can, and he shall," said Lady Radcliffe

He won't, grandmamma."

*' He will. I know him better than you
do. You were always the blindest person in

VOL. ni. Q

the world ; you always thought, if you liked
people, that they must want to do what they
ought. I know better, my dear. I wonder
by this time you have not picked up more
knowledge of men. Mr. Gerald will be very
glad to be lazy, and to live on somebody else
for the rest of his life."

Theoo coloured almost angrily ; but then
she could not help smiling.

On the contrary," she said, '' Gerald
likes work, and if you ask him he will tell
you so."

*' I dare say he will ; but I shall not believe
him. You will see ; I shall settle it all. He
is not so downright ungracious and ungrateful
as you."

*' I'm sorry "

Don't be a humbug."

'' But he is quite as independent as I am."

There is no knowing how long this dispute

might have gone on, or how angry Lady
Redcllff would have become with Theoo's
obstinacy. Probably they would have argued
till Gerald came in to answer for himself. Butin
the midst the butler came to ask if Mrs.
Goodall could see Mrs. Fane.

Mrs. Goodall ! What a bore ! Do you
want to see that fat creature ? ' said Lady
Radcliffe

Yes, please," said Theoo meekly.

'' I hope she has not brought a dozen
babies. Are there any babies, Finn ? "

Finn gravely answered that he thought
there was one in the carriage.

Let it stay there. What a fool the
woman is ! " said Lady Redcliff, half aside.

Helen came in, fair, and placid, and peaceful.
She was dreadfully afraid of Lady
Redcliff, but she did not show it in the
least, except by watching her a little anxiously

Q 2

after her first greeting with Theoo. She sat
and asked Httle questions, and answered
Theoo's questions, and looked at her with
soft, sympathising eyes. Even in this dark
room It was easy to see what a change
there was in Theoo. Helen was very sorry,
but she could say nothing now  certainly
not while this old dragon, as she mentally
called Lady Redcliff, was In the room.

'well, Theoo," she said presently, 'has
Gerald made any plans yet ? "

*' For the future ? No," said Theoo, glancing
across at her grandmother, who was amusing
herself by staring at Helen.

The rich potter's wife was a soft, pretty
sight In her furs and velvets ; her fair bright
hair, her delicate skin, her sleepy eyes, with
their long lashes, were unchanged from the
girlish days when Lady Redcliff had seen
her before. It was a sort of beauty that

Lady Redcllff despised ; all milk and sugar,
as she described it. She looked from one
young woman to the other, and wondered
if any one on earth could admire Mrs.
Goodall more than Mrs. Fane. Theoo looked
years older than Helen now; hardship, and
illness, and grief had left a mark never to
be effaced  no, not by a whole lifetime of
idleness and ease. No one could ever look
into Theoo's face now without seeing that she
had suffered. Her girl-beauty was gone ;
but there were two or three people who
thought that she was more beautiful than
ever.

You are a contrast, you two," said Lady
Redcliff suddenly.

'' Poor Theoo ! no wonder," said Mrs. Good-all
softly and pityingly ; there was at least no
doubt in her mind that the advantage was on
her side.

She took Theoo's hand and held it caressingly,
while Theoo lay and smiled at her.

"When people are weak, they don't like
to be pulled about," said Lady Redcliff impatiently
; but Helen did not take this remark
to herself at all.

'' I hear you have brought a child with
you," said Lady Redcliff; ''he will catch cold,
or measles, or something, if you keep him
waiting long in a cab."

Oh, thank you very much ; he is well
wrapped up, and nurse will take good
care of him," said Helen innocently ; she
thought Lady Redcliff was going to ask
the baby in. "You wouldn't like to see
him, Theoo ? " she suggested, turning to her
cousin.

I think, perhaps " Theoo began.

"I won't have it," said Lady Radcliffe
quite enough excitement for her to see you,

without being introduced to a strange child ,*
though, no doubt, he is immensely worth
seeing."

'ras to that," said Helen, smiling good-humouredly,
*' I dare say he would seem to
you much the same as other babies."

No ; I'm quite aware that there never
was such a child before. He is the image of
his father, isn't he . How is his father } "

Very well, thank you ; he is in London,
but I thought he had better not come with
me to-day."

'' What a horrid disappointment ! " said
Lady Redcliff; "I should have been charmed
to see him. I respect Mr. Goodall ; he is
something unique in my experience."

Here even Helen's placid mind began to
suspect impertinence, and she turned away
to Theoo with a faint extra shade of colour
in her cheeks. But a lite feeling of defiance

made her go on talking about John. She
was an excellent wife ; she liked John much
better now than when she married him, and
though she was not quite blind to his defects,
she thought him in most things very superior
to other men.

'' Do you know, Theoo," she said, '' John
has been wondering very much what Gerald
means to do. He has made no plans,
then } "

'* Other people may have made plans for
him, perhaps," remarked Lady Redcliff. '' Tell
Mr. Goodall so, with my compliments, if he
thinks of teaching him to make pots."

Helen gave Lady Redcliff a rather bored
little smile ; she thought this was only a
rude joke, not worth noticing, and she went
on talking to Theoo, who lay looking with
grave, tired eyes ; it did not seem necessary',
then, to explain what her grandmother meant.

'' I don't know that I ought to say anything
about it," said Helen; *' perhaps I
ought to leave it to John, but I should so
much like to know what you think, Theoo.
Of course to me it seems a most delightful
idea, but you may think it very uninteresting."

' Don't mystify the poor thing ; her brain
won't stand much exhausting," said Lady
Redcliff ; '' I'm curious, too, to know what
Mr. Goodall has imagined, but I must warn
you it is all of no use."

'' Don't say that, grand mamma," said
Theoo, lifting up her head. " Tell me, Nell ;
John is very kind ; what is it } "

'' Well, dear," said Helen, with a little
hesitation, 'you know the old house at Deer-hurst,
where Gerald used to live. I think
I told you in a letter that John had bought
it and the colliery. And it struck him the
other day that if Gerald had nothing else

to do you might like to come and live there
and he could have his old post of manager,
if he wouldn't despise It  till he gets something
better. Of course it is a bad neighbourhood,
but you know it already, and you
and I would have each other. Of course I
see lots of advantages, but then it is quite
impossible for me not to look at it selfishly,
don't you see, Theoo ? "

She stopped, looking at her cousin with
real eagerness and anxiety, but Theoo's eyes
were fixed on Lady Redcliff, who had flung
herself back in her chair and snatched up a
newspaper.

'john is very kind," Theoo repeated
absently ; then, after a moment's pause, she
looked at Helen and smiled. 'thank you
so much," she said ; *' Gerald must decide.
Everybody is very kind to us. I must tell
you, Nell, how good grand mamma has been."

** Don't be a fool or a hypocrite," said
Lady Redcliff behind her newspaper.

At that moment, before Theoo had time
to say anything more, the door opened and
Gerald came in. He looked bright and welland
he and Helen met as cordially as if they
had been old friends.

I have just seen Mr. Goodall," he said
to her. '* He has done me an immense kindness
; he has given me work to do, and a
house to live in. He is the best fellow I
ever met."

Helen flushed with pleasure, and Theoo
could not help smiling as she looked at him ;
but for a moment neither of them spoke.
The first voice heard was Lady Redcliff s,
she herself being still hidden from sight by
The Times.

"What a happy release for me!" said
this old philosopher.

ROSES.

Deerhurst Lodge, the house where Theoo
had been so happy one rainy day in autumn,
had an odd Httle charm of its own, which
she felt more and more, day after day,
when she began to Hve there. She and
Gerald stayed in London most of the spring,
and came down to Deerhurst at the beginning
of the beautiful summer, bringing Ada
with them. That year the summer was
wonderful for its heat and beauty ; the calm,
serene, glowing sunshine almost reminded
them sometimes of Africa.

The little house lay surrounded by green
sloping lawns ; Its rough-cast walls had a
dark trellis running along the lower part
of them and seemed to be planted in
flowers of many colours, running up and
shining brightly among their green leaves.
It was like a little old house In a picture-book.
Inside, the old oak rooms were full
of dark, cool shade, and sweet and gay
with bowls of roses ; the lower garden was
full of roses. On the smooth turf all
about soft breezes sometimes stirred the
shadows of the wych-elms and the beech-trees.
The sloping bank in front of the
house was shaded by three large old trees,
and the roots of one of these  a sturdy,
wide - branching ash  made a natural armchair,
where Theoo used to spend many hours
of those summer days, watched solemnly by
Wool and Toby, lying side by side.

She was weak, and tired, and languid,
and very dreamy, though the Hfe was
coming back to her by degrees ; and Ada,
as she sat at her feet and watched her,
perfectly happy in taking care of her while
Gerald was away, wondered a great deal
about the country and the life that had
taken all Theoo's strong young energy
away.

They did not talk very much through those
long afternoons ; sometimes she liked Ada to
read to her out of old favourite books, not
much caring for anything new ; sometimes
Mrs. Goodall came and brought her children,
and little fat Johnny rolled about on the grass,
and Ada played with him, while the cousins
sat together under the tree. Ada was always
shy of Helen, and not very fond of her ; she
wondered a little at the happy look which
came into Theoo's eyes when she was there.

Ada had very different feelings about Captain
North, who came down once early in the
summer. She thought of him with a happy
little enthusiasm, the hero who had gone to
that dreadful Africa, and had brought Theoo
and Gerald home. One day he gave her such
a description of Kimberley and the journey
there that she could not think of it afterwards
without thrills of horror, and admired him, and
pitied her two darlings more than ever.

Theoo herself never talked of Africa, except
to Gerald. Towards evening, when he came
home, Ada used to go away into the garden
with a basket to gather roses, leaving them
together. Away she went, the little lonely
figure, past the thick old apple-trees, where
there was only a narrow shady path between
the orchard and the yard wall ; down the hill,
where the old walnut-tree, a little tired of life,
was already scattering yellow leaves upon the

walk  down among the roses, which grew in
wild profusion among laurel, and laurustinus,
and honeysuckle, and ivy climbing over low
old walls, and clustering everywhere. There
she wandered up and down, and filled her
basket, and laid her face caressingly against
the loveliest roses, as If she asked them to
forgive her for carrying them away.

The long, pretty walk of this garden,
where primroses bloomed in spring, and
roses, and pinks, and lilies in summer, was
bordered by a thick hawthorn hedge, with
honeysuckle and elder breaking out here and
there. One may say, in passing, that this
garden was very full of trees and hedges,
and thus It was a paradise of birds, who
sang there night and day all through the
spring, and lived on strawberries and currants
all the summer, to sweeten their voices for
the following year.

But on the other side of this hedge just
mentioned, there was a steep grass-held rising
up  a sort of sheep-walk, with little paths
and ledges about it, with great patches of
gorse and blackberry-bushes, and old thorn-trees,
and wild crab-trees, and low oaks
scattered here and there along the upper
slope, where grew that group of Scotch firs
which bordered the lane towards Woodcote
those same firs that Theoo used to see
dark against the sunset from her window in
Mr. Goodall's house, so very long ago.

This field belonged to Deerhurst Lodge,
and the yard and garden opened on one
end of it, where there was an old ice-house,
and a stack of wood, and one or two hay-ricks
between the buildings and the lane.
At its far-away end the field had another
gate, opening into a steep bit of lane which
ran into the other lane, under a row of tall

VOL. III. R

oaks. It was only a grass path this way
between the house and the meadows ; but
any one coming by the field - road from
Mainley could find his way to the house by
it, instead of by the upper lane, though it
was not generally used, and was not, in facta
public path at all. A narrow track ran
along between the gorse-bushes, not far from
the foot of the slope, but yet so high above
the garden-hedge that a man could look over
it, and see everything and everybody in the
garden. So it happened that Ada Fane,
peacefully gathering roses in the long walk,
was not so entirely alone as she fancied
herself.

Her face was grave, for, when she was
not with Theoo, and thinking of her, she could
not help thinking a great deal of that poor
baby, left behind in Africa. The idea of
him had been so very attractive, poor dear

I

little delicate thing ! Ada used to fancy herself
nursing him for hours, loving him all the
more for his weakness and need of comforting.
She could only talk about him to Combe,
who told her histories enough. Gerald had
mentioned him once or twice, but with such
pain that Ada carefully avoided the subject
In future. Theoo never said anything about
him at all, but her little sister knew that he
was never out of her thoughts. After she
first heard of his birth, Ada had learnt one
or two lullabies, and funny little songs that
she thought he would like. Nobody must
hear them now, except the birds in the
garden ; but Ada often sang to them in a
low voice, and she thought they stopped
their own songs to listen to her ; probably
their taste was not more classical than lltde
Gerald's would have been. She was singing
that evening, but not, as she imagined, to

R 2

the birds alone. A stranger had come along
the path between the gorse-bushes, walking
on the soft grass noiselessly ; and when he
had passed a tall holly-bush which marked
the corner of the garden, he looked over
the hedge and saw all the flowers growing,
and a slim girl's figure dressed In pale blue,
with a fair, flushed face, and a head of gold-brown
curls, stooping amongst them, and
heard a sweet, plaintive voice singing some
venerable nonsense of nursery-rhyme  "A
]sie sat on a pear-tree," or something of that
kind.

He stood quite still and watched her ;
she had no idea of him, but went on filling
her basket with roses, while the evening
sun shone softly over the garden, where
the thrushes pecked away at the ripest strawberries,
hopping in and out and c enjoying themselves
without fear. The stranger pulled his

hat over his eyes, for the sun shone straight
into them, dazzling him provokingly.

'' It can't be the right house' he said to
himself. "They can't have anyone Hke this
belonging to them. I should have known,
somehow. This is an adventure."

He walked on very slowly, keeping parallel
with Ada as she moved along the path. At
last she began to climb a little, and he to
descend ; she was coming up the hill under
the walnut-tree, and the thick hedge stopped
here, changing into a rough paling, so that
they were no longer hidden from each other,
Ada glanced up at him in quick surprise, with
almost a start of fear ; she had a kind of dread
that Mr. Warren might appear again, and
though she was now quite safe from his persecutions,
the idea was very disagreeable. But
this was a stranger, and the pleasantness-looking
man, Ada thought, that she had ever seen.

He was more sunburnt even than Gerald, and
had a light beard, which made him look older
than he was. There was something particularly
delightful in his manner as he took his hat
off, and asked whether this was Deerhurst
Lodge. Ada's experience of young men had
been very small ; her idea of perfection had
lately been Captain North, of whom, however,
she was very much afraid, and whose manner,
even when he meant to be nice, was always
cold and indifferent. The admiration she had
had, poor child ! had been of a sort to make
her shrink and shudder. She stopped politely
in the path to answer this stranger's questions,
smiling, and holding her basket of
roses.

Thank you," he said, '' I'm very glad,"
when she had assured him that this was Deer-hurst.
" But I am afraid this is the wrong
way in, and people don't like one to storm

their back-doors. I have made some mistake,
certainly."

He stopped, for he was almost puzzled by
the look in the girl's face ; it seemed as if she
knew him already, and was glad to see him.

'* Do forgive me," he said, after a moment's
pause ; " but you are not anybody I knew
before I left England?"

'' Oh no, certainly not," said Ada, blushing
and smiling.

I thought I couldn't quite have lost my
memory. Only it almost seemed as if you
were kind enough to recognise me."

*' Yes," said Ada, with deeper blushes ;
' I think I do. I have seen your photograph.
I think you are  Mr. Stirling."

** But you don't know how delightful that
is," cried Bob enthusiastically. *' Why, the
other day, when I went home  walked in like
this, you know  my sisters didn't knows mea

bit. And I can't ever have seen your photograph,
or else, of course, I should have
recognised you."

*' Did you never see It at KImberley ? My
brother had It," said Ada.

'' Well, I don't know ; at any rate, It wasn't
like you. May I suppose, then, that you are
Gerald Fane's sister ? " said Bob with a sort of
gentle eagerness.

All this time he was In the field, and she
in the garden, but now they walked on and
reached the gate, and he joined her in the
path. Here she gravely shook hands with
him, and said that her brother and sister would
be very glad to see him.

Poor dear Mrs. Fane ! how is she ? " said
Bob. "Is she getting like herself again ? "

'' She Is still very weak and sad," said Ada.
'soh no, she Is not like herself, and she never
mentions the baby."

"What a dreadful business that was!"
said Bob. '' Gerald ought never to have
come to the Fields, you know ; he wasn't
half rough enough for the sort of life 
and bringing his wife there was simple
madness. It was a shock to me, really,
when I first saw them there. I thought
they were travelling about to amuse themselves.
What a beautiful garden you have !
I never in my life saw such roses."

I was so dreadfully sorry when Gerald
went," said Ada. " It is very nice to have
them at home again. I think they are under
the trees near the house."

' I hope the sight of me won't be a shock
to Mrs. Fane. What do you think?" said
Bob, lingering at the gate. '' Do you know,
Miss Fane, I think you gather roses in such
a funny way. I saw you over the hedge.
You left several behind that I thought the

prettiest in the garden. There was one
particularly  a beautiful pink bud. I don't
often want things that don't belong to me,"
said Bob, lifting his eyes for a moment from
the roses ; '' but I thought at the time that
I wanted that bud. I dare say Mrs. Fane
has told you wonderful things about the
flowers in Africa, but I assure you that
flowers in England beat them hollow. I
thought so, especially when I saw that rose,
and you left it."

Ada listened, smiling, to all this.

"If you want it so much," she said, 'would
you like to go and fetch it ? I'll go and tell them
that you are come. Here are my scissors."

Bob drew back from the scissors with a
little air of alarm.

Please don't leave me alone in this
garden," he said ; " somebody might take
me up for trespassing, or I might lose my

way. And I dare say I couldn't find the rose
after all. Have you any idea where it is?"

'' Oh yes ; I know it quite well," said Ada.

And so this conversation ended, as Bob
meant it should, by their going down again
together into the garden to look for that rose.
Ada thought she had never met any one before
who was so fond of flowers. Bob Stirling
seemed to care for them as much as she did
herself. Neither had she ever met any one
who was so delightful to talk to, so perfectly
kind and sympathetic about Theoo, so bright,
happy, and unprejudiced. And then there
was the mysterious but most pleasant feeling
that this charming stranger, much as he cared
for the flowers, was a little absent among
them, and often forgot to look at something
especially lovely, when he was talking to her.
He might have made all the long journey
from Africa with no object but that of talking

to her ; yet this, strange to say, was impossible,
because he did not even remember her photograph,
and had not taken in the idea that
Gerald Fane had a sister at all.

While this new friendship was being made
in the garden, Gerald and Theoo where sitting
under the ash-tree in front of the house, very
happy in their own way. They had been
talking a little about Ada and her future, expecting
every moment to see her come round
the house with her basket of roses. But the
sun sank lower, and the shadows grew longer
and longer, and Ada did not come, so at last
Theoo asked Gerald to go and look for her,
and he strolled down into the garden whistling.
Then quite innocently along the rose-path
came Ada and Mr. Stirling, and Bob had
evidently not forgotten to take care of himself ;
for he was wearing the prettiest pink bud in
his button-hole.

BOB.

Gerald and Theoo agreed that their friend
Bob Stirling's proceedings were more colonial
than anything they had seen since they left
the colonies. If it had been any one but Bob,
Gerald would certainly have been angry with
him. To come Into one's house the wrong
way, storm one's garden, steal one's roses,
almost make love to one's sister in the first
half-hour of their acquaintance  these free-and-easy
ways would have been rather hard to
bear, if Bob had not been himself; but he
was one of those happy fellows who may

Steal what they choose, while other men may
not look over the hedge.

Bob's frank devotion to Ada was apparent
from the very first moment ; he had instantly
lost his heart to the little rose-maiden, with
her gold-brown hair and laughing eyes. As
for Ada, all the little plaintive sadness had
vanished from her manner since Bob arrived.
Suddenly, unexpectedly, appearing out of
space, on the green hill above the garden,
without any mention of trains, or sound of
wheels, or sight of luggage, Ada's fairy prince
had come as such a person ought. He and
Ada were both quite capable of feeling the
romance of it all ; it was a small extra satisfaction
that their first meeting might have happened
in a story-book.

Theoo and Gerald had welcomed Bob with
the warmest friendliness. That evening they
talked for a long time about Africa, and It

seemed to Ada, who sat listening, that Theoo
liked talking about it ; she asked with interest
for so many people, and looked with a sort
of eagerness at a Diamond Fields newspaper
which Bob gave her. Ada came and looked
over her shoulder, but could see nothing
but strings of odd advertisements, a great
deal about the sale of "claims," which
she did not understand, and accounts of
various fights and rows, and consequent law-cases.


'' What a horrid place it must have been ! "
she said, in a low voice.

'eyes, a horrid place," said Mr. Stirling.
'' I never wish to see it again. And yet 
do you feel that, Gerald ? '

No, I hate it," Gerald said.

I know what you mean," said Theoo,
lifting her eyes from the paper, and looking
at Bob. "And yet  Africa is splendid. The

life has gone out of life since we came home
to England."

Gerald looked at her a little gloomily.

"Oh, Theoo!" Ada whispered in her ear.

I didn't mean to go nearly so far as
that, you know," Bob said, in a sort of
apology. " No, I always liked England best,
and this time I like it better than ever, and
I don't mean to go away again. But there
is something  there's the endless feeling, and
the colour  Mrs. Fane, of course, feels all
that more intensely than we do."

'' Yes ; and it was all very well at first,"
said Gerald. "You wouldn't like to go back
again, Theoo ? "

'' Yes, I should," said Theoo dreamily.

There was a little pause ; her words
seemed strange to them all ; none of them
quite understood her ; to Gerald and Ada
she gave a slight chilling pain, and Bob was

surprised ; but no one could ask her why, or
what she meant. In the silence Bob looked
at Ada, and she met his eyes for a moment,
and then looked rather shyly away. Then
Bob began to talk again, and the shadow
passed.

That night, as the two old friends were
smoking together, Bob told Gerald all about
his affairs : how he had wound up everything
at Kimberley, selling his interest in the claim
to Slater and Gumming, who were not yet
satisfied with their gains, and were working
on there still.

'' I've got about two thousand a year," said
Bob. 'rand to tell you the truth, I feel
thoroughly unsettled. For the last two or
three weeks, you know, I have been at home,
going with my mother and the girls to tennis-parties.
I met a great many people I used to
know, but nobody knew me again, and when

VOL. III. S

they found me out, they gave me to understand
that I was awfully gone off. And the
girls are always being surprised at everything I
say and do ; they are very well set up themselves,
with a nice little lot of ideas and
opinions on every subject. They play tennis
rather well, and read novels, except Mary, who
goes in for science, and free thought, and the
church of the future, and a few more subjects
which make a young woman horrid to talk
to. I do hate educated women. But I am
almost more afraid of the very orthodox
fashionable sort, who know nothing, and are
contemptuous."

Don't be rude to your sisters ; they
used to be very pretty, at any rate," said
Gerald.

** They will never marry," said Bob with
decision. " I see it ; they're getting stereotyped.
But I have not told you the worst

thing of all. My mother wants me to marry
one of their greatest friends. She is rather
good-looking, and rather clever, and she knows
exactly what is right on all subjects. She has
no money, and no relations to matter much.
What were you going to say ? " asked Bob a
little nervously.

"' I didn't know you had any Idea of
marrying. Well, you are wise to have waited
till now."

*' I hadn't much idea of it. I came away
here to escape  because you know It becomes
rather dangerous, when your mother and
five sisters have made up their minds about
a thing."

Poor chap ! I should think so," said
Gerald kindly.

Till to-day," said Bob, stroking his beard,
and looking thoughtful, '' I had never seen anybody
I admired as much as Mrs. Fanes

2

** Thank you," said Gerald.

" But of course  well, I don't know
whether you will be surprised  I have at
last seen the girl I want to marry. She
I say your sister is more perfectly
lovely "

Bob broke down and laughed ; then he
went on more reasonably :

'' I hope you will tell me if there is anything
that makes it useless to think of it.
If so, I'll go away tomorrow."

Gerald did not at once reply. Bob looked
at him nervously ; it now occurred to him
for the first time that there might be some
obstacle ; of course, after all, was it quite
likely that Ada Fane in her loveliness would
have waited for him ? For a minute Gerald
sat looking on the floor ; then he remembered
his friend's anxiety, and said with rather a
puzzled smile :

** I'm very much obliged to you, Bob."

"Well, then it's all right, isn't it?" said
Bob eagerly.

There is nothing that would make me
more glad for Ada," said Gerald ; but "

He stopped, evidently embarrassed.

You think she won't } " said Bob. " You
think there is somebody else in the way ? "

'*No, I don't."

** Then what do you mean ? "

They were sitting in the study, the small
old room, with its long window and low
walls. Ada's picture did not hang there
now, for Theoo had put it in her own room ;
but as Gerald listened to his friend's talk,
certain scenes in his own life, in that room,
one of them connected with Ada, came back
to him very vividly. He could see Clarence
walking up and down, could hear him saying
that Ada should marry Warren when

she was seventeen. And then the temptation
of the next day, and Theoo at the gate,
his angel, turning him back. And then
those other moments with Clarence, when
his brother had so calmly told the story
of his own disgrace, which, to Gerald's feeling
then, banished him from England, and
Theoo, and all his hopes for ever. And even
now, the shadow of that disgrace seemed
often to fall upon him ; in spite of all Theoo's
love, and trust, and pride, he felt himself
still involved in Clarence's shame. Ada
knew nothing of it ; he hoped she never
would ; but he could not let his friend marry
Ada in ignorance of it. Bob saw that there
was some struggle going on in Gerald s mind.
He was very fond of Gerald, whose morbid
fits grieved him, without making him at all
angry, for he was a patient, good-tempered
man.

*' There Is something wrong, old fellow !
What is it ? " he said, after waiting for a few
minutes silently.

''I am glad you spoke to me first," said
Gerald, *' because I must have told you this
anyhow, and it may make a great difference.
You may wish to withdraw what you have
said, and I shall not have any right to be
surprised."

'you would be surprised, however,
wouldn't you ? " said Bob. '' I can't imagine
anything "

'' Stop. Don't commit yourself any further,"
said Gerald, smiling a little. '' I have
got a horrid story to tell you."

Bob stared at him in astonishment.
'ris it necessary that I should be harrowed
like this?" he inquired.

"Yes; if you mean what you have said
about my sister, it is necessary," said Gerald ;

and sitting In the same attitude, with his
eyes bent on the floor, he told Bob what
Clarence had done.

'rand so, after I heard it," he ended his
story, *' I gave her up and went out to Africa;
but she wouldn't  unhappily for her  and I
asked her to come, and she came, and the
rest of it you know."

'' I know that you are a lucky fellow,"
said Bob, "for you have two of the most
charming women in England for your wife
and your sister, and in their different ways
the most beautiful too. But you are discontented
still  and you have a friend, but
you won't trust him ; you rake up a painful
old story to tell him, and think that he will
shake off the dust from his feet and disappear,
because you have a half-brother in
South America who has not always been as
good as the rest of his family. Look here,

Gerald, you will have to give your sister tome,
because I shall take better care of her
than you will."

** Thank you. Bob," said Gerald quietly.

Theoo had a great deal to do the next
day in comforting Ada, who came to her whenever
she could escape from Bob, to ask
whether she was perfectly shocked ; whether
they had behaved too badly ever to be forgiven
; if such extraordinary haste had ever
been heard of before. To meet a man for the
first time one evening at sunset, to be followed
down into the garden early the next morning,
before breakfast, when she had stolen away
quite quietly to think things over and gather
a rose, to return from the garden in half-an-hour's
time, having promised to marry that
man! Was it wonderful that Ada quite
declined to face her brother and sister, and
instead of coming in to breakfast fled back

to her own room. Theoo went to her there
(Mr. Stirling having confessed his crime), and
found the child crying ; but she was soon
comforted, and whispered to Theoo that it
was dreadful to be so happy.

That evening Theoo was very tired.
Gerald pulled her sofa forward to the
drawing-room window, close to all the
flowers in the balcony, and the stars began
to shine in the quiet evening sky. Somewhere
away in the garden the two happy
lovers were wandering ; and these two old
married people had been talking about
them, as they sat together in the window.

*' Bob is so boyish ; they are like happy
children," said Theoo.

*' Things are very differently arranged
for different people," Gerald said, looking
at her. *' Isn't it unfair ? Here's Bob  no
anxieties, no doubts, no fears, no suspense

when I look at him, and think what I
had to go through, Theoo, I pity myself 
don't you ? "

** Foolish boy'' said Theoo. 'you and
I could not have been like that. We had
to have patience, and to find each other

out."

"" I didn't want to find you out. I knew
all about you on Helen's wedding-day."

*did you?" said Theoo. 'but, Gerald,
this engagement would be a frightful risk
for almost anybody. It is only because these
two are so transparent and childish and nice,
without any dark depths, my dear, like you
and me. Of course one sees they will be
perfectly happy together."

There's something that comes over me
sometimes," said Gerald, after a long pause.
I feel as if I had spoilt your life, Theoo.
Since you married me you have had nothing

but trouble and sorrow. When I look at
them it makes me think of it  because I
know Bob will never have to say that to
Ada."

Theoo did not contradict him. He was
sitting beside her on the low window-seat,
holding her hand, and she was looking out
past the flowers, into the soft depths of
sky.

'* I know you feel that," she said presently,
drawing him nearer ; *' but, my darling, you
ought to trust me more. We should never
have belonged to each other so perfectly
as we do, without our sorrow. I have looked
at them to-day, and thought I would rather
have my sorrow than all their happiness,
present and future too. Do you believe me,
Gerald?"

THE OLD FAIRY.

*' Yes, very true ; it was all my doing, all my
fault ; I quite acknowledge that," said Lady
Redcliff.

Hugh North did not exactly know what
he had said to bring out this acknowledgment ;
Lady Redcliff was, perhaps, answering her
own thoughts, rather than his. Of course
they had been talking of Theoo, their one
subject in common.

'* But I never pretended, you know, to bea
good grandmother," Lady Redcliff went on,
almost angrily. " I never understood young
people  I hate them, especially girls. Theoo,

of course, was an exception, but then she
was different from ordinary girls."

*' I should think so," said Hugh, In a low
voice. *'I always thought there was something
so  so perfectly fine about her."

"Ah!" Lady Redcllff gave a sort of sigh.
I know what you mean. And poor Gerald 
I thought he had It too, when I saw him
first ; I fell very much In love with him.
But there always was a strain of weakness In
the Fanes. Well, I suppose they are as happy
as other people, so far. Theoo will get tired
of him by-and-by, but I dare say she will be
too generous to let him see it."

Hugh was silent ; It did not give him any
particular satisfaction to think that Theoo would
presently be tired of her husband. However,
he did not believe It was likely.

*' If the child had lived, it might have
been a different thing," said Lady Redcllff.
Theoon Theoo would have had something to

look forward to. The death of that child
broke her heart ; she told me as much, after
she came home, and I saw it in her face.
But now  Gerald will get lazy and selfish,
and lose his good looks, and she, of course,
lost hers in that abominable climate  and, in
fact, poor things ! I see nothing but deadly
dulness before them. Well, I did my best
to prevent it, with just the contrary effect.
It was my interference that sent Theoo out to
Africa."

'' It is very difficult to guess the result of
what one does," said Hugh thoughtfully. *' I
left them very cheerful yesterday," he went
on, looking up. " All the preparations for Miss
Fane's wedding seemed to amuse Theoo, rather."

"A pack of fools!" said Lady Redcliff.
Did you see the digger ? What is he like .'
Does he go about in his shirt-sleeves, and
wear a hat in the house ? "

'' No, he is quite civilised ; a nice sort

of fellow, rather talkative," said Hugh. '' I
knew him out there, you know. He is a
very good specimen of a digger."

** That is not saying much, I suspect. You
are very good-natured and charitable. Captain
North. Were you always like that, or has
your temper improved lately ? "

'' I believe it has," said Hugh. '* I have
been cultivating indifference, as a good preparation
for India."

*' Why on earth are you going to India ? "
asked Lady Radcliffe

The regiment is ordered there, and I
don't want to leave the army."

Lady Redcliff remained silent for a minute
or two, watching him with her sharp black
eyes. Hugh had altered very much in the
last two years ; he had no longer the air of
calm self-satisfaction which used to enrage her.
He looked like a man who had gone through
a storm of trouble ; his face was thin, his eyes

were hollow and grave, and he stooped a little
as he sat.

Will India agree with you ? " said Lady
Redcliff suddenly.

'' No, I believe not ; the doctors say it
won't," he answered, smiling.

*' Then how foolish to go ! "

'' I don't care much, you see. My life
is of no value to anybody."

This was a very desperate speech for
Hugh, and he perhaps felt a little ashamed
of it, for he got up and came towards Lady
Redcliff, holding out his hand.

She took no notice of this, however.

"You have made your will, I suppose,
and left everything to Theoo," she said.

Hugh lifted his eyebrows, and smiled.

*' Has my lawyer been confiding in you,
Lady Redcliff?" he said. "Yes; I did that
before I went out to Africa."

*' Poor man  good man ! " said Lady

VOL. HI. T

Redcliff, looking at him with a smile, and
almost a sort of dimness over her eyes. " I
am sorry I used to hate you  but to a wicked
old woman like me, you are rather hard to
understand. Why didn't you ask Theoo to
marry you years ago  ages ago, before Gerald
Fane was seen or dreamt of?"

'- Because I did not know, then, how
much I loved her," said Hugh very quiet.
*' But it would have been no use, even then ;
she would never have cared for me."

She might have married you, though
before she knew what it was to be in love,"
said Lady Redcliff, with a small laugh. '' I
should have raged, but that would have been
very much in your favour, as she always
opposed me."

Hugh stood looking out of the window
for a moment.

'' I think it is best as it is," he said. '' I

think that would have been worse than this,
do you know."

'' Oh, really, do you ? " said Lady Redcliff,
with a sneer.

Her good moments were only moments,
and she had not had many of them in her
life. Suddenly her pity and liking for Hugh
seemed to have passed away ; he was, as she
said, beyond her understanding. She wished
him 'good-bye" coldly enough, and let him go,
and walked up and down her room for an
hour afterwards, like a little caged tiger.

A few days after Hugh had sailed. Bob
Stirling and Ada Fane were married in the
little church at Deerhurst, which was all
decorated with roses for the occasion. It was
very different from Linwood Church, with its
great chancel and stately windows, where
Helen Fraser was married to John Goodall
and where Gerald Fane and Theoo Meynell

had first seen each other. It was an odd
contrast, too, to St. George's Cathedral at Cape
Town. Theoo stood dreaming, as she looked
at Ada, perhaps the loveliest and happiest
bride of all. She thought of these things,
and then she thought of the lonely place where
she had left her baby, with those great plains
outstretching to the mountains, and the low
marble cross with his name, the one memorial
at Kimberley of their sad months there.

And then Theoo lifted her eyes, and woke
from her dream, once more to find Gerald
looking at her, and smiled in answer to the
look he gave her, remembering that after all
she was happy.

