CHAPTER I.

A BLUE SEA, some palms with their heads
bound up, some hedges of cactus and aloes ;
some thickets of high rose-laurel, a long marble
terrace shining in the sun, huge groups of
geraniums not yet frost-bitten, a low white
house with green shutters and wooden balconies,
a chalet roof and a classical colonnade,
these all  together with some entangled shrubberies,
an orange orchard, and an olive wood
made up a place which was known on the
French Eiviera as La Jacquemerille.

What the name had meant originally nobody
knew or everybody had forgotten. What
La Jacquemerille had been in the beginning of
time  whether a woman, a plant, a saint, a
ship, a game, a shrine, or only a caprice  was
not known even to tradition ; but La Jacque-vol.

I. B

neville the villa was called, as, before it, had
been the old windmill which had occupied the
site, ere steam and fashion, revolutionising the
seashores of Savoy, had caused the present
pretty nonsensical, half-rustic, half-classical
house to be erected on the tongue of land
which ran sharply out into the midst of the
blue waves, and commanded a sea view, west
and east, as far as the Cape of Antibes on the
one side and the Tete du Chien on the other.

It was one of the most coveted spots on
the whole seaboard of our modern Capua, and
brought a little fortune annually to its happy
possessor, a respectable vendor of hams, cheese,
and butter in the Cannebiere at Marseilles,
who for the coming season had pocketed now,
from Prince Napraxine, the round little sum
of two thousand napoleons.

And the Princess Nadege Napraxine, who
had set her heart, or rather her fancy, upon
it, was sitting in a bamboo rocking-chair and
looking over the house front, and thinking that
decidedly she did not like it. It had been an
idiocy to take it, just the sort of folly which
her delegate in the affair always committed.
They would have been a thousand times better

off at the hotels in Nice ; you had no kind of
trouble at an hotel, and you could always
have your own cooks if you insisted.

For three months it had been the reigning
desire of her life to have La Jacquemerille for
the winter ; it had been let to an American
millionnaire, and the apparent impossibility of
getting it had naturally increased her anxiety.
The American millionnaire had suddenly decided
to go home ; Jay Gould or Mr. Vanderbilt
had done something that had disturbed
his digestion, and La Jacquemerille, which she
had never seen, but had fallen in love with
from photographs, was granted to her wishes
for the modest sum of forty thousand francs.
She had travelled straight from the Krimea toit
without stopping, had arrived by night, and
now was looking at it for the first time in
broad daylight with a sentiment very near
akin to disgust. She did not find it the least
like the photographs.

It is so horridly low ! ' she exclaimed,
after a long and thoughtful examination of the
frontage, where an Ionic colonnade sheltered
itself under a chalet roof from the Bernese
Oberland. ' I am sure it will be most dread



fully cold. And just look at the architecture
every style under heaven ! Was there ever
such an extraordinary jumble? '

If it be a jumble, my dear, it is very suitable
to our generation ; and you are very lucky
if, when you buy a pig in a poke, you get
nothing worse than a jumble,' said another
lady who was sitting opposite to her, with a
book held upside down and a litter of newspapers,
and who was known in society as Lady
Bracelet.

Pig in a poke ! vrhat is he ? ' said the
Princess Napraxine in her pretty English, which
she spoke with scarcely any foreign accent.
The house is shocking ! It is the Parthenon
mixed up with a Gaston. It is a nightmare ;

and so small ! I don't believe there is room

for one quarter of the servants. And just look
at these palms with their heads tied up as if
they had neuralgia ; and I am sure they may
well have it, standing still in that lise, day and
nio-ht. I think the whole place utterly odious.
I will tell the women to unpack nothing ; I am
sure I shall not stay a night ; an Italian willing
with a shingle roof and Grin den walt balconies !
Can anything be so absiuxl P '

I suppose you will wait till the Prince
comes downstairs ? ' said Lady Brancepeth with
a little yawn.

'Oh, I don't know; why? He can stay if
he likes. Oh, dear ! there is a Irene lattice
at that end and these other windows have been
copied from the Ca d'Oro, and the roof is as
Swiss as if it were a cuckoo clock or a
St. Bernard dog. What is one to do . '

'Stay,' suggested Lady Brancepeth. 'People
do not die of a Swiss roof unless it tables in.
The house is all wrong, no doubt, but it is picturesque
; a horrible word, you will say, but it
describes the place. It is picturesque.'

Wrong things usually are,' said the Princess
Napraxine with a sigh, as she surveyed
the Greek peristyle, the Swiss shingles, and the
slender Ionic colonnade. ' Are all these oranges
good for one's complexion, I wonder? It is
like sitting in a bright yellow room. I don't
like bright yellow rooms. Who said that
granted wishes are self-sown curses ? Whoever
did must have wished to hire La Jacquemerille,
and done it. Why do they tie up those palms ? '

To blanch the leaves for Holy Week.
Every blade of grass is turned into money on

this poetic shore. If the gardens have been included
in your agreement you can untie them ;
if not, you cannot.'

They will certainly be untied ; as for
agreement  your brother took the place for us,
I daresay he blundered.'

What were your instructions to him, may
I ask?'

Oil, instructions? I do not remember. I
sent him the photographs, and wrote under
them : " Take me the house at any price." '

Curt as Caesar ! '

With a little yawn the Princess Napraxine
looked down the long shining sea-wall of
white marble, studded at intervals with vases
of white marble filled with aloes ; beyond the
marble wall was the sea  blue, bright, quivering
and full of shifting; Ijorhts as diamonds are.
Then her gaze came inward, and returned to
the outline of the house which was so daring
and contradictory a jumble. The creepers
which covered it glowed red in the December
noon ; its blue and white awnings were gay
and fresh ; its vanes were gilded, and pointed
merrily to the south ; a late rose was garlanding
the Irene lattice ; some woodlarks were

singing their pretty little roundelay on the
boughs of a carob tree ; it was all bright, lively,
full of colour and of gaiety. Nevertheless, she
hardened her heart to it and condemned it
utterly, out of mere waywardness.

I shall go away after breakfast,' she said,
as she looked. ' Plato can do as he likes.
I shall dine at Nice, and you will come with
me.'

I was sure that was what sou would do,'
said her friend ; ' so was Ralph.'

Then I shall not do it,' said Princess
Napraxine.

She rocked herself soothingly in her chair.

What a dear little bird that is sino-inca ; it
cannot be a nightingale in December. The sea
looks very much like our Crimean one ; and
wdiat a lovely air it is. Like an English June
without the rain-clouds.'

Wait till Madame la Bise comes round.'

Oh, Madame la Bise comes round the
corner everywhere. She is like ennui 
ubiquitous. You have her in England, only
you pretend she is good for your health, and
your Kingsley wrote an ode to her ; the rest of
the world is not such a hypocrite.'

Kingsley ? He was Tom Brown was he
not?'

You are Tom Brown ! Eeally, Wilkes, you
know nothing of your own literature.'

Well, I was never educated as you clever
Eussians are,' said Lady Brancepeth, good-humouredly
; shews sometimes called Socrates,
and generally Wilkes by her intimates. She
was the ugly member of a singularly handsome
family, and the nickname had been given to
her in the schoolroom. But her ugliness was a
helle ladder ; her face was charming in its
own way ; her eyes were brilliant, and her
figure was matchless. She was an earl's
daughter and an earl's wife, and when she put
on the Brancepeth diamonds and showed herself
at a State ball, if ugly she was magnificent,
even as, if intellectually ignorant, she was a
marvel of tact, humour, and discernment.

Her friend and hostess was as entirely unlike
her as an orchid is unlike an aloe. She was
exquisitely lovely, alike in face and form, and
as cultured as a hothouse flower. She was just
three-ands twenty years old, and was a woman
of the world to her finger tips. She was very
cosmopolitan, for though a Eussian by birth and

marriage her mother had been French, one of
her grandmothers English, the other German,
and she had been educated by a crowd of
governesses of many different nationalities.
All her people, whether Eussian, English,
French, or German, had been very great
people, with innumerable and unimpeachable
quarterings, for many generations, and to that
fact she owed her slender feet, her tiny ears,
and her general look of perfect distinction.
She had a transparent, colourless skin, like
the petals of a narcissus in its perfect mat
whiteness ; she had oriental eyes of a blue-black,
which looked immensely large in her
delicate face, and which could have great
inquisitiveness, penetration, and sarcasm in
them, but were usually only lustrous and
languid ; her mouth was most admirably
shaped, and her teeth deserved the trite
compliment of the old madrigals, for they were
like pearls ; she had a very ethereal and
delicate appearance, but that delicacy of mould
sheathed nerves of steel as a silken scabbard
sheathes a damascene blade. She had an infinite
grace and an intricate alternation of vivacity and
languor which were irresistible. Men were

madly in love with her, which sometimes diverted
and sometimes bored her ; many people
were rather afraid of her, and this pleased her
much more than anything. She had a capacity
for malice.

She now held a sunshade above her head
and surveyed the house, and tried to persuade
herself it was charming, as her friend had
been so sure she would find it detestable. She
had wished for the place with an intensity
that had almost disturbed her sleep for some
weeks, and now she had got it and she hated
it. But as they had expected her to do so she
was determined to conquer her hatred and to
find it much better than its photographs. The
task was not difficult, for La Jacquemerille, if
full of absurdities and incongruities, was decidedly
pretty.

As she swung herself on her rocking-chair
and began to see with the eyes of her mind a
hundred improvements which she would instantly
have effected whether the terms of the
contract allowed of it or not, she saw coming
within the range of her unassisted eyesight a
large and stately schooner, with canvas white
as snow bellying in the breeze. She drew on

her long loose tan coloured glove cheerfully,
and said aloud :

After all, it is better than an hotel. There
is no noise, and nobody to stare at one. I
daresay we shall get through three months
without cutting each other's throats.'

Lady Brancepeth turned and looked out to
sea, and saw the schooner, and smiled discreetly ;
she said as discreetly :

I am so glad, dear, you won't fret yourself
too much about the place ; after all, you
are not going to live in it for a lifetime ; and
though, no doubt, it is utterly wrong, and
would give Oscar Wilde a sick headache, yet
one must confess it is pretty and suits the sunshine.'


The trees had been cut, so that openings
in their boughs allowed the sea to be seen
from any point of the terrace. Princess Nadine
from under her sunshade watched the stately
yacht draw nearer and nearer over the shining
path of the waters, and drop anchor some half
mile off the shore ; then she saw a gig lowered,
with red-capped white shifted sailors to man it,
and a figure which she recognised descended
over the schooner's side into the stern of the

boat, wliicli thereupon left the vessel, and
was pulled straight towards La Jacquemerille.
Neither she nor Lady Brancepeth appeared to
notice it; they talked chiffons and read their
newspapers ; but the long boat came nearer
and nearer, until the beat of the oars sounded
directly under the walls of La Jacquemerille,
and the rowers were too close at hand to be seen.
But the Princess Nadine heard the rattle of the
oars in the rowlocks, the shock of its keel
against the sea stars below, which she could
not see for the tangle of hyacinthus and
madonna and many another evergreen shrub,
covering the space between the terrace and the
shore ; she heard a step that she knew very
well, the sound of which moved her to a
slight sense of anticipated amusement, and a
stronger sense of approaching weariness, and
she turned her head a little, with a gracious if
indifferent welcome in her eyes, as a man ran
up the stairs at the end of the terrace, and
came along the marble floor in the sunshine
a young man, tall, fair, athletic, with
a high-bred look and handsome aquiline
features.

You have had a very quick run, surely ? '

said the Princess Napraxiue, stretching out her
tan glove.

Well, we did all we knew, and crammed
on every stitch we had,' the new comer
answered, as he kissed the tips of the glove,
and murmured in a lower tone, ' Were you not
here ? '

Then he crossed over to where Lady
Brancepeth sat, and kissed her cheek with
a brother's indifference.

Dear Wilkes, are you all right ? ' he said
as he took up a majorca stool and seated
himself between them.

Take that bamboo chair, Geraldine,' asked
the Princess. ' That china stool does not suit
your long legs at all. How many hours really
have you been coming from Genoa . I am
fearfully angry with you, by the way ; how
could you take this place ? '

'Because you told me,' answered Lord
Geraldine, staring hard. ' What was the command
? Take it, code que code. Not an ' if" ;
not a " perhaps " ; not a " but." Wilkes, do
you not call that too cruel ? '

'My dear Ealph,' said Lady Brancepetli,
'any woman's instructions should always be

construed so liberally that a margin is left for
her at the eleventh hour to change her mind.
But do not distress yourself. I do not think
Mme. Napraxine really dishes the place.
It is only her way. When she has bought a
thing she always finds a flaw in it. It is
her habit to condemn everything. She is a
pessimist from sheer want of ever having had
real disappointment.'

'Look at the house. It speaks for itself
said the Princess, contemptuously. 'Why
did you not telegraph and say that it was a
patchwork of every known order of architecture
? I would have told you to break off
negotiations.'

But you had seen the photographs.'

Photographs ! Would you know your
own mother from a photograph if you had not
been told beforehand whose it was? '

I am so sorry,' murmured Geraldine, ashe
turned round and gazed at the offending
building. ' It is a pretty place, surely ? not
classical or severe, certainly ; but cheery and
picturesque. I looked all over it conscientiously,
I give you my word, and it is really

in very good taste inside ; much better than
one could have hoped for in a maison meuhlee'

Oh, it is Wilkes, not I, who finds it so irretrievably
bad,' said the Princess JSTapraxine,
with tranquil mendacity ; ' but if it be too bad
one can always go to an hotel, only in an hotel
one can never sleep at night for the omnibuses,
and the banging of other people's luggage, and
if I do not sleep I can do nothing. Here I
should fancy it is perfectly quiet ? '

Quiet as the grave, unless the sea is howling.
But Monte Carlo is just behind that cliff
there ; with fast horses you can drive over in
twenty-six minutes  1 timed it by my watch.
You can have a score of people to dinner every
evening if you like.'

The Princess raised her eyebrows with a
gesture signifying that this prospect was not one
of unmitigated happiness ; and Lady Bracelet,
alleging that the sun was rather too warm
for her north-country bones, went away into
the house, being of opinion that three was no
company ; her brother drew his bamboo-chair
nearer his hostess, and took the tan glove with
the wrist it inclosed in a tender grasp.

So you do not like the poor place ? I am
truly grieved ! '

She drew her hand away so dexterously that
she left the loose empty glove in his fingers,
and he looked foolish.

No ; I thought of going away to-morrow
she continued, without any regard to his dejection;
' I do not like palms that have the toothache,
and marble pillars that have married
wooden balconies. But your sister, who always
opposes me, is so certain I shall go that it is
very probable I shall stop.'

Admirable feminine logic ! No doubt
the poor house is utterly wrong, though it has
been the desire of everybody on the Eiviera
ever since it was built. I felt sure you would
have been more comfortable in a good hotel
at Nice, and if I had ventured to volunteer an
opinion, I should have said so. Wilkes is quite
right ; you will be bored to death here.'

She is quite wrong ; she does not like the
place herself,' said Princess Napraxine, with decision,
while she took back her glove peremptorily.
' I do  at least in a way. The oranges
look jaundiced, and the palms rheumatic, but
those are trifles. They do say it hailed yesterday,

and the water in the washing-basin in
the coupe lit was frozen last night as we came
into Ventimigha ; but I saw a scorpion on the
wall this morning, and heard a mosquito, so T
am convinced it is the south of the poets, and
am prepared for any quantity of proper impressions,
only they are slow in coming to me ;
it is so excessively like the Krimea, terrace and
all. Should not you go in and see if Pkiton
be awake ? '

I am convinced he is asleep. It is not
quite one o'clock, and you arrived in the
night, didn't you? '

Yes ; but he will get up, because he will
want to be off to Monte Carlo. He will spend
his life there and send over expresses every
hour for fresh rouleaux. When he is near a
gaming-table he is so happy.'

Enviable faculty ! '

It is my faculty too. But I try against it ;
he doesn't. Men never try to resist anything.'

Geraldine murmured words to the effect
that his life was one long compulsory resistance,
and his eyes completed the incomplete
sentences.

'Don't talk nonsense,' said his hostess.
VOL. I. c

You know I do not like madrigal ; and an
Englishman always looks so clumsy when he is
making them. Make me a cigarette instead.'

Always cruel ! ' murmured her companion,
obediently rolling up Turkish tobacco.

Always kind,' said the Princess. ' People
who are kind to men and children never
spoil them. Where will your schooner stay?
There is no dock, or quay, or whatever you
call it, here. These places always ought to
have one of their own.'

How can they when the rocks go sheer
down into deep water ? No, I must keep her
off Villefranche or Monaco. She can be round
in half an hour  at your disposition, of course,
like her owner.'

If she be not more manageable than her
owner '

Oh, Nadine ! When I only live to obey
your orders, and never even receive a smile in
return ! '

Ah, if you want reward there is no longer
any merit I And do not call me by my name
in that manner ; you will do it some day before
Plato.'

He doesn't mind.'

No, of course he does not mind ; but I do,
which is more to the purpose.'

You are very unkind to-day, princess.
This unhappy Jacquemerille ! it is grievous that
you don't like it ; the gardens are really pretty,
and the view is superb.'

You talk like an auctioneer ; go and find
the gardener and tell him to untie those
palms.'

Pray don't send me away yet.'

Is that what you call your docility . '

His hand stole towards hers again.

Do tell me, princess,' he murmured timidly.
You will stay now that you are here, will you
not?'

How can I answer for the duration of my
fancies ? Perhaps I may, if you amuse me well
enough.'

I would rather interest you.'

Ah, my friend, that is quite impossible.
Even to be amused is hard enough, when one
is not in the humour. When one is in the
humour, it is even fun to go out fishing ; when
one is not, one is dull even at a masked ball at
Petersburg. We are like the cuttle-fish, we



make our sphere muddy with our own dulness.
How would you suggest that I should find any
interest here ? There will be no society except
some gouty statesmen and some sickly women,
a few yachtsmen, a pigeon-shooter or two, and
quantities of people one cannot know.'

There will be heaps of people who know
you,' said Geraldine, almost with a groan ; ' at
least, if you deign to allow them the entree of
La Jacquemerille. If I might presume to advise,
the place is all to itself, they cannot come
if you do not invite them. It is as nearly simple
nature here as a montaigne and an elegant
like you can ever bring herself to go. You
have the sea at your feet and the mountains at
your back ; you can have absolute repose and
leisure unless you wilfully bring a horde of men
and women from Nice and Monaco. You are
so clever ; you might make endless sketches.
If I were you, I should make it the occasion to
get away from the world a little ; if the world
you must have, I should take it in the Avenue
Josephine instead of at La Jacquemerille. '

The Princess laughed languidly, and looked
at her cigarette.

You want a solitude a deil, I daresay !

But you see there are Plato and Wilkes against
that, not to mention my own inclinations.'

Pray, be serious.'

Wliy ? When one is in the mood to be
serious, one does not take a nondescript toy
within five miles of Nice. I daresay you are
right ; a quiet life for a little while would be
very wholesome, it would certainly be a novelty,
but it would be beyond me. I am not a stupid
woman, I am not a silly woman certainly ; no,
I am quite convinced I have a brain, though
as for a soul, I don't know, and I am afraid I
don't very much care. A brain, however, I
have ; Wilkes is even unkind enough to call
me learned. But still, my dear Ealph, I amas
you observed, that much-abused animal, a
montaigne. When once we belong to the world
can we ever get rid of the world? Jamais!
au grand jamais I If we try to drink spring
water, we put it somehow or other in a liqueur
glass. If we smell at a hedge-rose, somehow
or other Fiver has got in it before us, and given
it the scent of a sachet.'

You are very witty, but '

I don't care in the least for " buts," and I
have no pretensions to wit ; I leave wit and

whist to the dowagers, o ; when we are
once of the world worldly, we never get rid of
the world again. It is our old man of the sea
pickaback with us for ever ? Who can lead a
meditative life that dines twice a day, as we
all practically do, and eats of twenty services ?
When we prattle about nature, and quote
Matthew Arnold, we are as artificial as the
ribbon shepherdesses of Trianon;" and what
we call our high art is only just another sort of
jargon. Suppose I followed your recipe and
tried living quietly here, which means asking
nobody to dinner, what would happen ? Wilkes
would go away, Plato would sulk or do worse,
and you and I should yawn in each other's
faces. It is not that I have no brain, I have
even a soul  if anybody has  but I began the
other way, you know. It is like taking chloral ;
if once you do it you cannot leave off. Society
is entirely like chloral ; it gives you pleasant
titillations at first and just the same morne
depression afterwards, and yet you cannot do
without it.'

I hope you do without chloral ; wait
another twenty years at any rate before you
poison yourself.'

Twenty years ! I wonder what we shall
be like by then ? I daresay I shall be an incurable
hypochondriac, and you will have
several tall boys at Eton. Perhaps your son
will be falling in love with my daughter, and
you and I shall be quarrelling about the settlements.'


Nadine ! '

He drew his chair very near indeed, and
looked straight into her eyes. The Princess
looked up at the blue sky, serenely indifferent.

That is all nonsense, you know,' she said,
with a little affected asperity, but she smiled
even if she felt more inclined to yawn. At
that moment there issued from one of the many
glass doors of the nondescript house her
husband, Plato Nicholaivitch Napraxine.

My dear Ealph, I am very glad to see
you,' he said cordially, in the tongue of the
boulevards, which every gently born Eussian
has taken as his own. ' You came round in
your " tub," as you call her . You have found
the Princess dissatisfied with the house . She
is always dissatisfied with everything, alas!
The house is well enough ; the lathrooms are
small, and there is no billiard-room ; but otherwise

I see no defect. Breakfast is waiting and
Lady Brancepetli also. Will you come P '

His wife rose languidly, and taking the arm
of Lord Geraldine, drew her skirts of India
muslin, Flemish lace, and primrose satin, over
the marble pavement of the terrace to the
house. Prince Napraxine stood a moment with
his cigar in his mouth, looking south and east
over the sparkling sea, then, with his hands in
his pockets, sauntered also towards the house.

He was a tall, loosely-built man, With an
ugly and frankly Kalmuck face, redeemed by
an expression of extreme good humour ; he
was about thirty years of age, and had the air
of u person who had always done what he
chose, and had always been obeyed when he
spoke ; but this air changed curiously whenever
he looked at his wife ; he had then the timid
and almost supplicating expression of a big
dog, anxious to please, but afraid to offend.

Let us go and eat Milo's red mullets,' she
said now.

'Milo Is that the cook? Can he doa
houillahaisse, I wonder ? ' he replied.

Their chef had been taken ill, as the
train had touched Cordillera, and their agent

had hastily supplied his place so far as it is ever
possible to supply that of a great and almost
perfect creature experienced in all the peculiarities
and caprices in taste of those to whom his
art is consecrated.

The Princess took no notice of her lord's
blunder ; indeed, she seldom answered his
remarks at any time ; she drew her primrose
satin and soft muslin over the sill of the
French window, and seated herself at an oval
table, gay with fine china, with flowers and
fruit, and with a Venice point lace border to
its table cloth, which was strewn with Parma
violets and the petals of orange-blossoms. She
had Geraldine on her right hand and her back
to the light. She had an ermine bag holding
a silver globe of warm water for her feet, and
a clair that was the perfection of ease. The
dining-room was small, but very pretty, with
game and autumn flowers painted on its panels,
and shutters, with hangings of olive velvet and
cornices of dead gold, and on the ceiling a
hunting scene of Fontainebleau a la Henri IV.

She began to think seriously that after all
La Jacquemerille would do very well for the
winter. It was utterly absurd, to be sure, outside,

but it was comfortable within ; and, indeed,
had considerable taste displayed in it, the
American having wisely mistrusted his own
tendencies and left the whole arrangement to
French artists, who had robbed him ruthlessly,
but who had made each of his apartments as
perfect in its way as a Karl Theodore plate.

I think I shall buy it,' said the Princess to
her companions ; indifferent to her own inconsistencies.


Wait a little,' said Lady Brancepeth.
Don't rush from hatred to adoration. There
may be all sorts of things the matter with the
drains. The caloriferes may be wrong. The
cellars may be damp. The windows may
rattle. The kitchens may be too far or too
near. At the end of the winter you will know
all its defects and all its virtues. Houses are
like friendships, there is hardly one in a thousand
worth a long lease.'

Wilkes is always cynical,' said her brother.

And nobody is a stauncher friend,' said
the Princess. ' Why will she make herself out
a cynic ? '

A cynic ? Because I am prudent ? ' said
Lady Brancepeth ' If you sigh all the winter

because the house is not yours you will enjoy
it. If you buy it you will discover that it is
uninhabitable at once.'

'JSTadine is never long pleased,' said her
husband.

What does Matthew Arnold say?' answered
the Princess, ' that the poet is never happy,
because in nature he wants the world, and in
the world he longs for nature. JSow, I am nota
poet, but still I am a little like that. What
you are pleased to call my discontent is a certain
restless sensation that our life  which we think
the only life  is a very ridiculous one ; and
yet I am quite incapable of leading any other
for more than a week. I remember, Geraldine,
that you remarked once that it was this
fool of a world which makes fools of us all.
There was a profound truth in the not very
elegant speech.'

I don't remember saying it ; but it is certainly
true. We grow up in the world as a
Chinese child grows up in the jar which is to
make a dwarf of him. The jar checks our
development maugre nous. We cannot be
giants, if we would.'

I am sure it would not suit you to be a

giant, Ealph,' said his sister. ' You would never
like to release distressed damsels and slay disagreeable
dragons. The uttermost you would
ever do to the very biggest dragon would be
to turn an epigram on his odd appearance.
Giants are always very busy people, and you
are so lazy '

That is the fault of the jar,' said Geraldine.

Some people break the jar and get out of
it,' said his sister.

No, nobody does,' said the Princess
Napraxine. ' You mistake there, Wilkes. The
world is with us always, and we cannot get rid
of it.'

The frank eyes of Geraldine conveyed to
her eloquently his conviction that the discontent
she spoke of was solely due to her determined
banishment of one sentiment out of her life.
She ofave him an enigmatical little smile of
comprehension and disbelief combined, and
continued to unroll her philosophies  or what
did duty as such.

Do you not know the kind of feeling I
mean ? When we are amonof the orchids in
the conservatories we want to go and gather
damp primroses. Do you not remember that

queen who, when she heard the gipsies singing
under her windows, all in a moment longed to
go with them? There is something of the
gipsy in everybody  in everybody who has a
soul. The time comes when one is tired of
the trumpery and folly of it all  the wicked
expenditure, the dense selfishness and indifference,
the people that call themselves leaders
of good taste, and yet like foie gras and the
Concours hippique and Kilimnel and Londres,
and the atmosphere of Paris theatres.'

'Interesting, but discursive,' murmured
Lady Brancepeth. ' Primroses  gipsies  a soul
I do not see the connection.'

You know what I mean,' said her hostess,
who always expected to be understood. ' Our
life is silly, it is tiresome, it is entirely selfish, it
is even, in a way, monstrous ; and yet we cannot
live any other. We are dominated by
the Frankenstein of pleasure which we have
been pleased to create. When we Lavish to get
away we cannot ; we are Hke the queen at the
palace windows  we would fain go to the
greenwood, and the brook, and the fresh
winds, but we cannot, because we are fastened
in our gilded chair ; there is always our household

to shut the window and send the gipsies
away. Do wee ever get rid of the household,
of the galerie of the routine, of the infinite
ennui ? I am only twenty-three years old, as
you all know, and I feel as if I had lived
fifty years. Why ? Because it is all overfull,
tiresome, high-pressure ; and the worst
of it is that I could lead no other life if I
tried ! '

I am not sure of that,' said Lady Bracelet.
' Marie Antoinette would never have
believed that she could mend clothes and darn
stockings had not the days of darkness come.
In those days it was just the dainty perfumed
mignonne like you, my dear, who were
the bravest and handiest in bearing their
troubles and earning their bread.'

One never knows till one is tried,' said
Princess Nadine. ' If they would begin to
guillotine us I daresay we should know how to
behave ; dynamite doesn't do much for us.
When one goes into the air without warning
in little bits, in company with the plaster of the
ceiling, or the skin of the carriage horses, or
the stuffing of the railway carriage, there is not
much room for heroism.'

I am not sure there is no heroism,' said
Geraldine. ' The certainty of the guillotine
must have been much easier to bear than the
uncertainty in which you all dwell in Eussia 
the perpetual spectre always behind your chairs,
beside your pillows, under the roses in your
gardens  '

Oh, my dear Geraldine, is not death with
us always everywhere ? May we not kill ourselves
every moment we walk downstairs, or
eat a mullet like this, or start on a journey, or
read a book by a night-lamp ? You all wonder
how Eussians can exist with assassination
always keeping step with them, but in reality
is it so much worse than the way in which
all humanity loves and laughs, and toils and
moils, and makes leases for ninety-nine years,
and contracts foreign loans for payment in a
century, with death hanging over the whole
thing ready to swoop down at any minute ?
If the world realised it of course it would go
mad en masse but it doesn't realise it though
hundreds of people die every second.'

Did Racine ever tell you what she did
last year ? ' said Prince Napraxine. ' She
saw by chance a queer-looking can which had

been placed by some of those miscreants in a
niche of the garden wall of our house in Petersburg
; the thing looked suspicious to her, and
it had a coil of tubing attached to it. She
took the whole affair up and dropped it into
the fountain. She forgot to mention it till the
next morning. Then when we fished it out,
and the chemists reported on it, it appeared
that the can was really full of nitro-glycerine as
she had fancied. I think that was quite as
courageous as going to the guillotine.'

Oh, no, my dear Plato ! ' said his wife,
with some annoyance. ' Nothing you have no
time to think about is really courageous. The
can was suspicious and the children were play-into
near it, so I thought the fountain was the
safest place ; it miglii have been only milk, you
know. Pray do not let us attempt to compete
with those people of '89. We shall fail dismally.'


Geraldine looked up with a startled apprehension
in his eyes.

Good heavens, do you mean it ? Has she
actually been  been  in such awful danger as
that, and never told me ? '

 ' We were all in the same danger,' said

Prince Nnpraxine, a little drily ; ' but the Princess
alone bad the head role out of it.'

Who put the can there ? '

Oh, how should I know. The police never
traced it. I do not suppose it was any special
design against us as individuals ; only as items
of a detested whole. And two of the Grand
Dukes were coming to breakfast with us that
day.'

What a fuss about an ugly little tin can ! '
said his wife. ' The really courageous person
must have been the person who brought it
there ; misguided, perhaps, but certainly courageous.
To drive through a city in a droschky
embracing certain annihilation, in the form of
a little tin pot held on your knee, is a combination
of absolute awfulness and grotesque bathos,
which must try all one's nerves without any
compensating sense of grandeur in it. A jolt
of the wheel over a stone and away you fly
into the air, a blurred nothing in a stream of
blood and dust ! No ; I respect the Nihilists
when I think of all they list for a purely
abstract idea without any sort of personal hope
or triumph.'

They have hatred,' said Lady Brancepeth ;

VOL. I. D

I think you forget what an invigorating, self-sustaining,
all compensating sentiment that is.
Its ecstasy is its own reward. You underrate,
too, the immense fascination of the power to
destroy ; on se grise with that sense of holding
the annihilation of a whole community in their
hands. What made the Woman Emperors mad,
the unlimited power of destruction,  now intoxicates
the mechanic or the clerk who has
the task of planting a can of nitro-glycerine.
When statesmen, and even philosophers, theorise
about human nature and all its disorders, they
never give weight enough to the tremendous
attraction which pure destruction alone exercises
over so many minds.'

But they have love, too ; love of the poor
and of a lofty ideal,' said the Princess. ' Myself,
I forgive their little tin cans, though they are
extremely unpleasant, when I think of their
impersonal devotion. All I wish is, that their
warfare was not conducted by tin cans ; the .
thing has a ludicrous, comical, vulgar side;
death dropped in a little box labelled " glass,
with care " ! There is no dignity in it, no
grace. Pallida Mors should not crouch under
a cab-cushion ! '

'How can you make a jest ' began

Prince Napraxine. She interrupted him :

I am not in the least jesting, I am entirely
in earnest. I do not like behig made war on
by chemists ; I do not like annihilation left ina
paper parcel ; it makes one feel absurd, fate
seems trifling with one. A Jacquerie hewing
at one with their scythes one would know what
to do with, but who can extract any Sophoclean
tragedy from a Thanatus that looks exactly like
a box of sardines or a pot oi foie cras? It
is not the war that I object to, it is the form
it takes; and our great, grim, ghostly Eussia
should evolve out of her soul of ice something
much more in consonance with her. Beside the
burning of Moscow, the little tin cans and the
burrowing like moles underground are commonplace
and a little vulgar. Eussia is so
awful in herself. One thinks of the frozen
world of the Inferno, and Dante and Virgil
walking in the spectral silence; and then, after
all, in hard fact there is nothing but the police,
and the drunken moujik, and the man who
carries his nitro-glycerine as a baker's boy
carries his rolls of bread ! It is bathos.'

One never knows what you mean, Nadine,'

D 2

murmured her husband. ' If you talk so at
Petersburg they will think you are a Nihilist at
heart.'

I imagine half the noblesse are,' said the
Princess. ' The noblesse have always dug their
own graves before all revolutions everywhere.
They call it " going with the times." They did
it in France, they are now doing it in England,
they are doing it (more secretly) in Eussia. No
one should forsake their order ; it is a kind of
desertion, like that of a soldier who runs away
before the enemy. That is why I like the party
obedience of your country, Wilkes ; it is entirely
unintelligent and profoundly immoral ; to
a generally intellectual nation it would be impossible,
but it is loyal. I think when one has
to choose between a crime and a disloyalty one
must take the crime as the lesser evil of the two.'

Voting for party is a crime very often,'
said Geraldine. ' It is one of the many things
as to which I have never made up my mind.
Ought one to sacrifice the country to what one
believes a bad measure for the sheer sake of
keeping one's party in office ? Surely not.'

You solve your doubts by having no
party, and never going into the Lords.'

At least, T can do no misclnetV

Are you certain of that P ' said his sister.
I think you place voting for party on too low
a plane. If we believe, generally, that one
party  say it is Conservative, say it is Liberal
is necessary to the preservation or the progress
of the nation, then I think we are bound
to do our best to keep it at the helm of the
vessel of the nation, even if in certain minor
matters we are not always in accord with the
course it takes.'

Admirably reasoned ; but are not politicians
always as great sophists as priests ? '

Sophists ! always that cruel charge,' said a
mellow and manly voice, as there entered the
dining-room a person of handsome and stately
presence, in a picturesque costume, with knee
breeches and buckled shoes, whom the servant
announced as Monsignore Melville. He was
welcomed by all With cordiality and delight,
and the Princess bade him draw his chair beside
her, though he alleged that lie lead breakfasted.

I came to see if you had arrived,' he said,
as he seated himself. 'Princess, I hope La
Jacquemerille is fortunate enough to please

you?'

I have been abusing it ; it is a very
ridiculous house, but it grows upon one ; and

if you will come often enough. Monsignore

No, I never make compliments. You know
you are a delightful companion, and of how
many people can one say that ? '

Monsignore Melville bowed low.

You are too enchantingly kind. But all
are not so kind. Lord Geraldine was accusing
priests of sophism. What was he saying ? '

He was saying that politicians are the
sophists, and Wilkes the head of them.'

Because I defended " voting straight," '
said Lady Brancepeth. ' Is it not the very root
and essence of English constitutional life ?
Monsignore Melville, vho is an Englishman,
Avill, I am sure, say so.'

To serve the Church is only a superior
kind of voting with party,' said Geraldine.

Do not be profane, Ealph,' said his sister.
 It does not suit you. You were created
with a reverential nature, and you have
endeavoured to ruin it, as most men always do
try to destroy what is best in them. Monsignore,
answer me, is it not the highest
morality to vote straight P '

 That is a very unlimited laudation, Lady
Brancepeth,' returned Melville, with a charming
smile. ' I should be scarcely prepared to go sofar,
though I am aware that there is no salvation
outside such morality in the political creed
of our country.'

Ecclesiastics have no country, my dear
Monsignore,' said the Princess Napraxine, ' except
a heavenly one. What a comfort that
must be ! Plato is always being worried to
return to the mater patria, and his conscience
is so peculiarly constituted that it will never
allow him to admit how intensely he hates it.
As if life were not tiresome enough in itself,
without everyone being burdened with the
obligation to like, or pretend that they like,
their country, their relatives, their children,
and their church ! '

Napraxine looked distressed :

'You have liked Eussia,too, sometimes,'
he said wistfully ; ' and poor little Sachs and
Mitzz ! '

His Avise cast upon him a glance of sovereign
disdain : ' There are only two things I
like in Eussia, they are the steppes and the
wolves : that limitless expanse, stretching away

to the dim grey sky on every side, and the
sight of a pack of the gaunt grey beasts on the
snow as one's sledge flies by ; those two things
give one a sensation which one does not get
elsewhere. But it is monotonous, it soon ceases
to move one ; the Evolves never attack, and the
great, awful, white plain never leads to anything
better than the posting-house, the samara,
and the vodki, and the group of drunken
coachmen.'

The human interest, in a word,' suggested
Melville.

Madame Napraxine smiled :

Ah ! my dear Monsignore, the human interest
is quite as dull as the steppe and quite
as ravenous as the wolf! How delightful it
must be to be a priest to see all that raw
material thrush rose-glasses ! '

May not the interest be in subduing the
wolf?' murmured Melville. 'And even the
steppe, under the fostering touch of May dews
and June sunlight, will put forth blossoms. Is
there no allegory there that Madame Napraxine
will deign to accept P '

You always say pretty things, in the pulpit
or out of it,' she replied ; ' but you cannot lend

me your rose-glasses to see them through, so I
fear they do not convince me. The astronomers
who are now busy seeing canals in the
planet Mars, would see nothing if they had not
their glasses ; no more would you. You see a
soul in a drunken dvornik ; that is quite as
astonishing, and probably quite as imaginary,
as the network of canals in Mars. Will you
really eat nothing, Monsignore ? Let us go out
and sit under that awning there ; a bath of
sunshine always does one good, and you need
not grudge yourself a half hour of leisure. I
have no doubt you have been passing the forenoon
somewhere with cholera or typhus or
some other plague of this sanitary century.
You know, Geraldine, that is Monsignore's way.
He is S. Francis Xavier all the morning, and
then turns himself inside out and becomes an
Abbe galant for society.'

I have not been to anything typhoid or
choleraic this morning, or I should not be hereto
endanger your loveliness. Princess,' answered
Melville. ' I have been where Poverty is 
alas ! where is she not ?  and in our day those
who wed with her regard it as a forced marriage,
wholly joyless ; and we cannot persuade

them that there may be graciousness where she
dwells if only cleanliness and content will sit
down with her.'

Oh, Monsignore, it is not only poverty that
scares content, I can assure you,' said Madame
Napraxine.

If you be not content, who should be ? '
murmured Melville. ' With every possible gift
of nature, culture, fate, and fortune showered
upon you, why will you always persuade yourself.
Princess, that your doubled rose-leaf mars
everything ? I do not believe the rose-leaf
even exists ! '

I am not sure that it does, either,' replied
Madame Napraxine ; ' but I never remember
to have felt contented in my life. Is content
an intellectual quality? I doubt it. Perhaps
it is a virtue ; I dislike virtues.'

Melville was a sincerely pious Churchman,
but even he did not dare to take up the cudgels
in honour of poor virtue before this merciless
speaker. He was satisfied with replying that
content was not a quality which the tendencies
of the waning nineteenth century were likely
to foster.

No ! ' said the Princess Napraxine. ' The

note of our time is restlessness, and its chief
attainment the increase of insanity.'

If it did not sound too much like moralising,
I should say that there was never anytime
in which there was so much self-indulgence
and so little real rest,' said Melville,
who had the sensitive fear of a man of the
world of appearing to obtrude his own convictions,
and to preach out of season and out of
church.

 People require to have their brains and
their consciences very clear and very calm to
enjoy rest. It is the reward which nature reserves
for her good children,' said Lady Bracelet.


I must be very good, then,' said Madame
Napraxine with her little mysterious smile, ' for
I rest absolutely. To know how to do nothing
is a great secret of health and of comfort ; but
you must not wait till you are fatigued to do
nothing, or you cannot enjoy it.'

And I suppose you must occasionally be
deaf to duty knocking at the door ? '

Duty ! She should have her proper moments
of audience, like the steward, the liquour, the
secretary, and other necessary and disagreeable

people ; that is to say, if she really exist.
Monsignore Melville evidently is in the habit of
listening to her.'

'I may say with Josef IT., " C'est mon
metier a moi," ' said Melville, with good
humour. ' But believe me, Princess, it is not
duty which prevents repose ; it is far more
often worry, the hateful familiar of all modern
life. Worry takes a million forms ; very often
it is dressed up as pleasure, and perhaps in that
shape is more distressing than in any other.'

Yes, the age has invented nothing that
does not result in worry. Only look at the
torture to diplomatists from the telegrams,' replied
Madame Napraxine, while she tendered
him a cigar. ' In other years an ambassador
had some pleasure in disentangling a delicate
and intricate embroglio, some chance of making
a great name by his skill in negotiation. An
able man was let alone to mingle his suavity
and his fortitei\ his honey and his aloes, as he
thought fit ; his knowledge of the country to
which he was accredited was trusted to and
appreciated ; nowadays, telegrams rain in on
him with every hour ; he is allowed no initiative,
no independent action ; he is dictated to

and interfered with by his home government,
and cypher messages torture him at every step.
What is the consequence ? That there is
scarcely a diplomatist left in Europe  they
are only delegates. Where there is one, he is
incessantly controlled, hindered, and annoyed,
and all his counsels are disregarded. Meanwhile
the world's only kind of peace is a permanent
armed truce. But let us go into the
garden.'

CHAPTER II.

Whex Nadege Fedorevna, Countess Plato,
known to all her friends by the "petit nam of
Nadine, had reached her sixteenth year she had
the look of a hothouse gardenia, so white washer
skin and so spiritual her aspect, whilst her
slender form had all the grace of a flower
balancing itself on a fragile stalk in a south
wind. That ethereality, that exquisite delicacy,
as of something far too fair and evanescent for
man's rude touch, fascinated into a timid and
adoring passion a heavily-built and clumsy
cuirassier of the Imperial Guard, Who was also
one of the greatest nobles written in the Velvet
Book of Eussia  Plato Mcholaivitch, head
of the mighty family of Napraxine. He was
eight-and-twenty years old, immeasurably rich,
popular with his sovereign, a good soldier, and
an exceedingly amiable man. He laid his
heart and everything he possessed at the feet

of this exquisite and disdainful child v]len he
saw her at her father's embassy in Vienna one
fateful April day.

She refused him without a moment of
doubt ; but he was persevering, greatly enamoured,
and had both her parents upon his
side. She was neither weak, nor very obedient ;
yet in time she allowed herself to be persuaded
that not to accept such an alliance would be
to do something supremely ridiculous. She
resisted stubbornly for a while ; but she was
inquisitive, independent, and a little heartless.

Her mother, a woman of the world, full of
tact and of wisdom, answered her objection
that the Prince Napraxine was stupid, had a
Kalmuck face, and vas inclined to be corpulent
 in a word, displeased her taste in every
way  by frankly admitting these objections to
be incontestable facts, but added, with persuasive
equanimity, ' All you say is quite true, my
child, but that sort of details does not matter,
I assure you, in a question of the kind we are
discussing. It would matter terribly to him if
you were stupid or ugly, or inclined to be fat ;
but in a man  in a husband  in three months '
time you will not even observe it. Indeed, ina

fortnight you will be so used to him that you
will not think whether he is handsome or ugly.
Familiarity is a magician that is cruel to beauty,
but kind to holiness. As for beincr inclined to
corpulence, he is very tall, he will carry it off
very well ; and as to gambling, he Avill never
get to the bottom of his salt mines and ruby
mines : that is the chief question. And after
all, my dear Nadine, a man who will never
interfere with you and never quarrel with you
is a pearl seldom found amongst the husks ; and

when the pearl is set in gold I would not

for worlds persuade you, my dear, to marry
merely for certain worldly considerations, such
as the great place and the great wealth of
Plato Nicholaivitch ; but I would earnestly advise
you to marry early and to marry for peace,
and when peace and a colossal fortune are to
be found united, it seems to me a great mistake
to throw them both away. Somebody else
will take them. I suppose you dream of love

as all young girls do ; but '

Not at all ; I know this is only a question
of marriage,' said Nadine, with that terrible
sarcasm on her lovely young lips with which
many things she had seen in her mother's house

lead armed lier for the battle of life whilst she
was still but a child.

She did not think about love at all ; she
was not romantic ; she already thought it vieux
jeu ; but she had a brain above the average,
and she fancied that she should like the man
to whom she was given to be something great
in intellectual power, not merely in the sense of
millions and of rank. But a girl of sixteen,
born and bred in an embassy, reared in the
most brilliant cities of the world, having seen,
the great panorama of society pass before her
eyes from her babyhood, is, however innocent
in other ways, not unsophisticated enough to
ignore the vast advantages of such a position
and such wealth as the Prince Napraxine offered
to her. Besides, her father wished passionately
for the acceptance of Xapraxine; he himself
was deeply in debt, and knew that his constitution
had the germs of a mortal disease.

Via, ma petite,' he said to her gravely one
morning, 'je suis crible de dettes : je peux
mourir domain. C'est mieux que tu le
premises enfin, c'est un assez bon garcon.'

It was not an enthusiastic eulogy of his
desired son-in-law, but he never spoke enthu-

VOL. ]. B

practically, and his child knew very well that
under the negligent slight phrases there ran a
keen and vivid desire, perhaps even a carling
and unacknowledged care. By the end of that
evening she had allowed herself to be persuaded,
and in three months' time was married
to Prince Napraxine, not knowing in the least
what marriage was, but only regarding it as
an entry into the world \'ith unlimited jewels
and the power of going to any theatres she
chose. When she did know what it was, it
filled her with an inexpressible disgust and
melancholy. She was very young, and her
temperament was composed of that mingled
hauteur and spirituality in which the senses
sleep silent long, sometimes for ever.

She bore two sons in the first two years of
her marriage, and then considered herself free
from further obligations to provide heirs for
the vast Napraxine properties. Her husband
had been ardently but timidly in love ; when
she intimated to him that their union should be
restricted to going to Courts together and being
seen in the same houses at discreet intervals, he
suffered in his affections as well as in his pride,
but he did not dare to rebel.

This lovely young woman, who was like
a gardenia or a narcissus, who was not
nineteen, and declared that all the caresses and
obligations of love were odious to her, could
strike terror and submission into the soul of
the big Plato Napraxine, who stood six feet
three inches, and had been no unheroic soldier
in the frosty Caucasus and on the banks of
Euphrates and Indus. She was unusually
clever, clever by nature and culture, by intellect
and insight, keenly, delicately clever, with both
aptitude and appetite for learning and scholarship
; and within the first twenty-four hours of
her marriage, she had taken his measurement,
moral and mental, with merciless accuracy, and
had decided to herself that she would never do
but what she chose. He was a big dog, a hon
enfant a good-natured, good-tempered cipher,
but he was a great bore. And she put him
aside out of her life altogether, except inasmuch
as it was absolutely necessary to sit sometimes
at the same table with him, and have his orders
blaze beside her diamonds at State balls ; and
the friends of the Prince Napraxine envied her,
of all her valuable possessions, none so much
as that of her husband, whose revenues were

E 2

UMiVRsrryoPff.nye

inexhaustible, and whose good-nature and
patience were equally endless.

Looking back to her seventeenth year she
always admitted that her mother had judged
rightly.

Poor Plato ! ' she would say to herself
sometimes when she thought so, with a little
passing flicker of something like compunction.
What had she given him in return for his great
name, his enormous wealth, his magnificent
gifts of all kinds, his honest devotion, and his
infinite docility? Being very honest, when in
self-communion of this sort, she was obliged to
confess to herself  nothing. Her own money
was all settled on herself; their rank had been
quite equal ; there were hundreds as pretty as
herself, and she could not now recollect that in
six years of marriage she had given him one
affectionate word.

The fault is not ours ; ' she would say, ' it
is the institution that is so stupid. People
do not know how else to manage about property,
and so they invented the marriage state.
But it is an altogether illogical idea, binding
down two strangers side by side for ever, and
it cannot be said to work well. It keeps property

together, that is all ; so I suppose it is
good for the world ; but certainly individuals
suffer for it more than perhaps property is
worth.'

Her two little boys were always left in the
Krimea with the mother of Napraxme ; they
were much better there, she thought, growing
up robust and healthy like two young bear cubs
(which, to her eyes, they much resembled) in
the pure breezes from the Black Sea. When
she did see them she was always amiable to
them, even thought she felt fond of them, as
she did of the steppes and the wolves ; but
like the steppes and the wolves they were
certainly most interesting in theory and at a
good long distance. They were too like their
father to be welcome to her. ' They have the
Tartar face, and they will be just as big and
just as stupid,' she thought, whenever she saw
them.

When Melville, who had been long intimate
with her family, told her, as he very often did,
that it was her duty to have the children near
her, and to interest herself in their education,
she always replied : ' They are exactly like
Plato ; nothing I could do would make them

different. They are perfectly well cared for by
his mother, and brought up much better than I
could do it. I was expected to give him an
heir : I have given him two heirs. I do not
see that anything more is required of me.'

And when Melville would fain have insisted
on the usual arguments as to the obligations of
maternity and education, she invariably interrupted
him, and once said at full length, ' If
the children were mine only' and not Plato's,
I could make something of them. But they
are formed in his image ; exceedingly good,
entirely uninteresting. They will be Princes
Napraxine, and so the world will adore them,
though they be as stupid as mules and as
ugly as hedgehogs. They do not interest me.
Oh, you are shocked ! Even you, the most
original of Churchmen, cannot get over your
prejudices. Believe me, la voix de la Nature
does not speak to everybody. It does not say
anything at all to me.'

I will be an honest woman ; it is much
more chic,' she had said to herself in the
first year of her marriage in the height
of a Paris winter, as she had looked around
her on society, with her brilliant indolent eyes,

which saw so clearly and so far, and surveyed
and appraised her contemporaries.

It would be eccentric, l:)ut distinguished.
To her delicate, satirical, fastidious taste, there
was a sort of vulgarity in being compromised.
She did not go farther than that, or higher than
that. The thing was common, was low ; that
was quite enough against it. Something that
was half spirituality, half hauteur, made the
decision easy to her. A certain chillness of
temper aiding, her resolve had been kept.
She had been as loyal a wife to Prince Na-praise
as though she had loved him. Men
did not obtain any hold on her. She flirted
desperately sometimes, amused herself always,
but that was all. When they tried to pass from
courtiers into lovers, they found a barrier, impalpable
but impassable, compounded of lier
indifference and her raillery, ever set between
her and them. She fancied that it would be
quite intolerable to her for any living being to
believe himself necessary to her happiness ;
besides, she did not much believe in happiness.
The world was pleasant enough ; like a well-cushioned
saloon carriage on a well-ordered
line of rail ; nothing more. You travelled onward,

malf/re vous, and you slept comfortably,
and your ultimate destination you could not
avoid ; but if you escaped au} great disaster by
the way, and if nobody woke you with a shock,
it was all you wanted. She did not believe in
the possibility of any great beatitude coming
to you on that very monotonous route.

She had that admirable tact coupled with
that refined but unsparing insolence which
daunts the world in general to silence and
respect. The greatest hlagueur on the Boulevards
never dared to hint at a weakness ora
concession on the part of the Princess Na-praise.
And women, though they envied her
bitterly, reviled her unsparingly, and shivered
loiter the sting of her delicate impertinence
or her pregnant epigram, yet were perfectly
conscious that she had never shared their
hollies. Passion had as yet no place in her
complex and delicate organism. She could
not, or would not, understand why passion
should not be content to amuse and worship
her, just as a furnace fire may only bake
a porcelain cup or call to life a gardenia
blossom.

Now and then this refusal of hers to comprehend

what lie inspired ended in dire tragedy.
Now and then some one killed himself because
she had laughed. Now and then two people
were silly enough to fight a duel a]30iit a glove
she had dropped, or the right to take her down
the stairs at the opera. But this was always
lamentable and foolish in her sight ; only its
consequences, though she regretted them, did
not alter her. If she had loved her husband her
victims would have been less mortified ; but
they all knew very well that Plato Napraxine
was no more to her than one of the chairs in
her drawing-room. If she had even loved the
world she lived in, her coldness would have
been more intelligible ; but she did not. Her
magnificent jewels, lier marvellous toilettes, her
many beautiful houses, her power of gratifying
any whim as it formed itself, the way people
looked after her postillions in their blue velvet
jackets, the perpetual fete of which society was
made up for her, all diverted her but moderately.
She was montaigne to the tips of her
fingers, but not enthusiastically so, only so from
habit  as she wore silk stockings or had rosewater
in her bath.

I have seen the whole thing since I was

sixteen ; low can it entertain me much ? ' she
said to those who marvelled at her indifference.
When it was objected to her that there were
many who hod seen it from sixteen to sixty,
and yet thought nothing else worth seeing, she
shrugged her shoulders. On the whole she
understood the sect of the Skoptzi better ; they
had an ideal. What ideal had her world ?

She kept her exquisite tint and her lovely
eyes unspoiled by the endless late hours and
the incessant excitations in which women of the
monde oh Ion s amuse lose their youth in a
year or two. She ate very simply, drank little
but water, rode or drove . no matter what
weather, refused forty-nine out of fifty of all
the invitations she received, seldom or never
made any house visits, and spent many hours
in perfect repose.

Why should you go and stay in other
people's houses ? ' she always said to her English
friends, in whom this mania is more rampant
than amongst any other nationality. ' Another
person's house is hardly better than an hotel ;
indeed, very often it is worse. If you don't like
the dinner-hour, you cannot change it ; if you
are given slow horses, you cannot complain ;

if you dislike your rooms, you cannot alter
them ; if you think the chief a bad one, you
cannot say so ; if you find all the house party
bore you, you cannot get rid of them. You
must pretend to eat all day long ; you must
pretend to feel amiable from noon to midnight
; you must have all kinds of plans made
for you, and submit to them ; you can never
read but in your own room, and, generally
speaking, there is nothing in the library  if it
be an English library  except Tennyson, Wordsworth,
and Mr. Darwin. I cannot imagine how
any reasonable being subjects herself to such a
martyrdom only because somebody else finds
the country place dull without people.'

She had also ingeniously established a
reputation for very delicate health, which she
found beyond anything useful to spare her from
being bored, and to excuse her absence from
any gathering which did not specially attract
her.

I have a santa de fer she said once to a
friend, ' but happily I look very fragile, and
physicians, if they think you wish it, will always
promise you angina pectoris or tubercles on
your lungs. I have an enchanting doctor in

Paris  you know him, de Thiviers  lie is very
famous ; lie will shake his head over me as if
I were doomed to die in ten minutes, and he
frightens Plato out of his wits  he sets a Great
many rouleaux at the end of the season  and
he and I look as grave as the two augurs,
though, like the augurs, we are both longing
to laugh. It is so useful to be thought very
delicate, you have an excuse for everything.
If at the last moment you don't wish to go anywhere,
nobody can say anything if it be your
health that gives way. They would never forgive
me my continual absence from the Court
at Petersburg, and I certainly should not receive
my perpetual passport, if they did not
sincerely believe in the tubercles which de
Thiviers has so obligingly found for me. Do
go to de Thiviers if you are quite well and
want to be ill ; he understands all that sort of
thing so well, and he never betrays you. He
has convinced Plato that I am poiirinaire.''

And between her reputation for a dangerous
disease in her system, and her really intelligent
care of her health, she had the paths of life
made very smooth to her, and was infinitely
freer from any genuine indisposition than might

have been expected from the fragility of her
aspect, and her Eussian love of hot rooms and
yellow tea. Still, as a great comedian will so
identify himself with his part that he at times
believes himself the thing which he represents,
she did at times almost persuade herself, as she
completely persuaded others, that she had some
great constitutional delicacy to contend with,
and she would play at medicine with little
needles for morphia, or a few glasses of water
at Baden-baden or Ems, as she would play now
and then at baccarat or roulette in her .


Nothing is so useful,' she would say in
moments of confidence. ' Look at the quantity
of weariness that there is in the world from
which no other possible plan will set you free.
Palace dinners, diplomatic banquets, great marriages,
country house visits, self-invited princes,
imperial coronations, royal baptisms,  you cannot
refuse them ; the laws of society forbid ;
but if you are known to be in delicate health,
no one can be offended if, at the last moment,
quite unexpectedly, you get a chill and must
not stir out of your own room. When there
is some unutterable social tedium looming on

the horizon, I always telegraph for de Thiviers,
and lie is always equal to the occasion.'

In this, as in other matters, she arranged
her life to lier own satisfaction, without any
kind of misgiving that this self absorption was
egotistical. Everything had combined to make
her an egotist. An only child, adored by her
father, admired and a little feared by her
mother, whose most intimate secrets she had
divined with all the keen intuition of her natural
intelligence ; surrounded from her earliest years
by a court of dependents and servants who
seemed only to live to minister to her caprices,
flattered from her babyhood by all her father's
friends, secretaries, and attaches, she had imbibed
selfishness as inevitably as a young
willow sucks in the moisture from the stream
by which it grows. There was nothing in a
loveless marriage and in the clumsy and irritating
devotion of a man dio Alas ardently
in love with her, whilst she only viewed him
with contempt and dislike, to counteract the
influences of her earlier years. The whole
world conspired to induce the Princess Na-praise
to live only for herself.

That she occasionally had moments of

supreme generosity, and a capacity seldom or
never called out for heroic courage, did not
alter the main fact that her life was essentially
selfish. She never did anything that she did
not wish to do ; the great want in her existence,
to herself, was that she so very seldom
felt any wish for anything. When she did, she
gratified it without any scruple or hesitation.

Her mind was too clear and logical for any
creed to obtain any hold upon her ; nominally,
of course, she was of the Greek Church, and
had too much good taste to create any scandal
by openly separating herself from it ; but her
intelligence, as critical and as subtle as Voltaire's
or Bohngbroke's, would no more have submitted
to the bondage of religious superstition
and tradition than she would have clothed her
graceful person in one of the ' Decrochez-moi-
9a ' that hung in the windows of Paris clothes-shops.
In morality, also, she did not much
believe ; she read Stuart Mill's plea for the
utility of virtue once, and smiled as she closed
the book with a mental verdict of ' non-proven.*

Pride (that pride which has been happily
defined by a French writer is fas d'orgueil
mais de la Jierte), and the delicacy of her

taste, with her profouDcl indifference, supplied
the place in lier of moral laws, and probably
acted on her much more effectively than they
would have done. Principle is but a palisade
; temperament is a stone bastion.

Les bonnets gens m'ennuient et les mauvaises
gens me complaisant,' she was wont to say,
with a frank confession of what many others
have felt, and have not had the courage to say.
She had no more rigidity of principle than
any other person who has been reared in the
midst of a witty, elegant, and corrupt society ;
but her perfect taste supplied the place of moral
convictions, the grossness of vice offended her
like a bad odour, or a staring colour ; and
everything loose or coarse seemed to her an
affront to intelligence and to refinement.

Sometimes she almost envied the women
who could plunge themselves into the hot
springs of a passion, only it seemed to her
vulgar ; the same sort of vulgarity as swimming
in public in a rose-coloured maillot. She
could swim like an otter, but she never swam
in public. The noisy and ungrateful pleasures
which delight modern society seemed to her
sheer imbecihties, whilst she would as soon

have descended to an intrigue with her cook
or her coachman as have made an amorous
appointment in a private room at a cafe, or
have mounted the stairs of a hired house to
meet a LoveLace of the chios. ' Peut-on care
plus here ! ' she would say, with supreme disdain,
whenever she heard of the vulgarities which
usually accompany Abate and Pilots in these
the waning years of the nineteenth century.
She quite understood the Parisienne in ' Frou-
from ' who, tempted to make an assignation,
awakes to a sense of its coarseness and commonness
when she finds that the temple of love
is upon the third floor in the Eue du Petit
Hurled, and that the wall-paper lias five-and-twenty
Poniatowskys jumping into the
Easter repeated on every length of it.

In that sort of affair,' she said once, ' you
must have either secrecy or a scandal ; both tome
seem in bad taste. And then, with the one
you are at the mercy of your maid, and with the
other you are at the mercy of the newspapers.
To be sure,' she added, ' I cannot, perhaps,
measure the force of the temptation, for I have
never in my life seen any luunan being to meet

VOL. I. F

whom I should have ever thought it worth while
even to order out my coupe.'

Innumerable lives had done their uttermost
to entwine themselves in hers and had only
broken themselves helplessly on the rock of
her supreme indifference, like so many ships
upon icebergs. She was a charmer esse in the
uttermost sense of that expressive word, but
she was scarcely a coquette, though the most
merciless coquetry might have done much less
harm than she did. A coquette desires and
strives to please ; Nadine Napraxine fascinated
other lives to hers without effort if without
pity. She had one supreme end  to endeavour
to amuse herself; and she had one unending
appetite  that of the study of character.
She so seldom succeeded in amusing
herself that she came naturally to the conclusion
that most characters contained no amusing
elements.

Vous mennuyez ! ' was her single word of
explication to those whose homage she had
permitted for a while only to send them adrift
without a sign of compassion or contrition. To
her the three words seemed entirely comprehensive.
When some one more daring? than

the others had once ventured to remind her
that he had not been quite so hateful to her
only a brief while before, she had said, with
some impatience, ' Can one know that a book
is dull unless one looks at a few pages ? It is
not one's fault if it be ill written. I cannot say
why you all weary me, but if you do, it is
not my fault either.'

When once they wearied her it was of no
use for them by any ingenuity, subserviency, or
despair, to attempt to regain her favour. Her
path, like that of all great victors, was strewn
with unrewarded victims. Xow and then her
composure had been ruffled, when the fate of
someone of these had roused the adverse
comments of the world, and the issue of some
duel or the fact of some suicide had had her
name, by common consent, coupled with it.
She disliked that kind of notoriety ; sincerely
disliked it with all the hauteur and disgust of
a very proud and sensitive refinement ; but it
never made her change the tenor of her ways.

If you do not like dii iwtin would it not
be better  to  to not to give rise to it ? '
Napraxine himself had once humbly ventured
to suggest when she was excessively angered

because the journals of the hour had ventured
to introduce her name into their narratives of
a duel ending in the death of the young Principe
d'lvrea, who had been very popular and
beloved in French and Italian society.

Bii potion I ' she had echoed. ' Why cannot
you say scandal ? What sense is there in
slang? Give rise to it? Ivrea was a nice
boy, but irascible like all Italians, and intensely
vain; the least word irritated him. He chose
to provoke de Prangins because de Prangins
teased him, and the old man has been too
strong for the young one. It is a great pity !
he had a pretty face and a pretty manner, but
I have no more to do with his death than the
gilt arrow on the top of the house. Myself,
I would much rather he had killed de Ranging.'


Napraxine had preserved a reverential
silence ; he knew that there was another side
to the story, but he did not venture to say so.

When the jealousies, feuds, and quarrels
which it amused her to excite and foment
arrived at any such tragical conclusion as this
with which the Due de Prangins had disembarrassed
her salons of a youth who of late

had grown too presuming, she was always
entirely innocent of being the cause of it. ' I
always tell them to like each other,' she would
say placidly ; but therein they did not obey her.

She valued her power of destruction as the
only possible means of her own amusement. It
reconciled her to herself when slice was most disposed
to be discontented. Her delicate lips smiled
with ineffable disdain Avhen she saw other women
se mordant comme des folks, as she expressed it,
in their effort to secure the admiration or retain
the passions of men, while she, merely lifting
the cloud of her black lashes in the sunshine by
the lake, or sitting still as marble in the shadow
of her box at the ' Francis,' could anchor
down by her for ever the thoughts, the desires,
the regrets, the destinies of young and old, of
friend and enemy, of stranger and familiar,
merely by the passive magnetism of that charm
which Nature had iiven her.

Marie Stuart,' she said once when she
closed Chastened, ' a sorceress ! Pooh ! They
make much too much of her. She had a charm,
I suppose, but she could not have known low
to use it, or she would never have married
either Darnley or Both well, and she would

never have allowed herself to be beaten by
Elizabeth  a grey-haired virgin and a mai-tresses
jennie ! '

All women seemed to her to have been
very weak : Josephine humiliated at Malmaison;
Marie Antoinette, on the tumbril of death ;
Eloise, in her cell of Paraclete ; Lady Hamilton,
dying of want in Calais ; Lady blessings,
poor and miserable in Paris :  what was
the use of ' charm ' if it ended like that ?

I shall reign as long as I live,' she said to
herself. ' And if I live to eighty men will be
still eager to hear me talk.'

CHAPTEE III.

This room is stifling, it is so small ; and yet
there are horrible draughts in it. I daresay the
ridiculous walls are not an inch thick,' said the
Princess Napraxine now, as she rose from the
breakfast-table, and drew her delicate skirts,
with their undulating waves and foam of lace,
out through the glass doors and over the marble
of the terrace to the sheltered nook in which
she had been sitting before breakfast, where a
square Smyrna carpet was placed under several
cushioned lounging-chairs. It was only two
o'clock, and the air was warm and full of
brilliant sunshine.

 It is all in dreadful taste,' she said for the
hundredth time. 'This sort of mock-Syrian
scenery, mixed up with chalets, villas, and
hotels, has such a look of the stage. It seems
made on purpose for maquilUes beauties, dyed
and pampered gamblers, and great ladies who

are received nowhere else. Places have all a
physiognomy, moral as well as physical. The
Eiviera must have been enchanting when there
was only a mule-track as wide as a ribbon
between the hills and the sea from Marseilles
to Genoa, but now that the moral emanations
of Monte Carlo and of the cinq heures at all
the nondescript houses, and of the baccarat
groups in the clubs which are not as exclusive
as they might be, have spread all along
the coast like miasma, the whole thing is only
a decor che scene, the very gardens are masquerading
as Egypt, as Damascus, as Palermo.
It is all postiche.'

You are very cruel, madame,' murmured
Melville.

That is the only thing you can any of you
find to reply when I say anything that is true ! '
said the Princess, with triumph.

The de Yannes are your nearest neighbours,'
suggested her husband.

Did you mean that Cri-Cri is Men nature ? '
she said, with her little low laugh. 'I fear
neither of them will contribute anything to
redeem the character of the place for either
maquillage or gambling '

'Why volllJ you coin to it?' he asked,
with all a man's stupidity.

Why do people ever ask one why one
does things? ' she interrupted, irritably. ' One
imagines one will like a thing ; one gets it ;
and directly, of course, one does not like
it. That is a kind of general law. Monsignore
Melville will tell us, I suppose, that it
is to prevent us attaching ourselves to the
pleasures of this world ; but as it also operates
in preventing one's attaching oneself to
anybody, as well as anything, I do not know
that the result is as admirable as he would
imagine.'

I never said ' began Melville.

Oh, no, but you would say if you were in
the pulpit,' she replied, before he could finish
his sentence. ' You Avould say that even eyinui
and satiety and depression have their uses if
they lead the soul to heaven; but that is just
what they do not do ; they only lead to morphia,
chloral, dyspepsia, and Karlsbad. It is
quite impossible  it must be quite impossible,
even for you, Monsignore  to consider Karlsbad
as an antechamber to heaven ! '

Melville tried to look shocked, but did not

succeed well, as he was a little Eabelaisian and
Montaigne at heart, and not intended by
nature for a Churchman.

What are we going to do ? ' said the
Prince, as he stretched himself in his chair, and
lighted another cigarette.

Stay Adhere we are,' suggested Geraldine,
who desired nothing better, as a tete-astute
was a favour never accorded to him twice in
twenty-four hours.

Oh, not I, indeed! ' cried Xapraxine, with
as much alacrity as was possible beneath his
heavy ' envelope of flesh.' ' I shall go to Monte
Carlo. I have told them to harness. If you
like to come '

At that moment a servant brought him a
card. He read what was written in pencilled
lines upon it ; then raised his head with a
pleased exclamation.

Je vous le donne en mille ! ' he cried.
Nadine, who do you think is here ? '

A goose with a diseased liver, or a hundred
green oysters ? ' said his wife, contemptuously.
' I can imagine no lesser source for
so much radiance.'

The Prince, regardless of sarcasm, or tempered

to endurance of it by longliabit. answered
placidly :

No ; it is Othman.'

The face of Nadine Xapraxine changed
considerably ; the most astute observer could
not have decided whether annoyance or gratification
was the most visible expression ; her
eyes lighted with a look different to the mild
amusement with which she had greeted
Geraldine.

Where can he have come from ? ' continued
her husband.  He was in Asia a little while
ago. One is always so glad to see him. He
is so unlike other people. It is only you,
Nadine, who do not appreciate him.'

He is posture' said she with languor. ' But
I do not know whether that is reason enough
to keep him waiting at the gate ? '

I forgot,' said Napraxine. ' There is no
one less poseui\ I assure you. Clever as you
are, you sometimes mistake. Gregor, beg Count
Othmar to join us here.'

The servant withdrew. Princess Nadine
put a large peacock fan between her and the
sun ; she yawned a little.

Seven minutes for Gregor to send down

to the gate, seven minutes for Otlimar to come
up from the gate, a minute and a half more for
him to traverse the house ; we have fifteen
minutes and a half in which to vilify our
coming friend, as modern hospitality binds us
to do. Let us begin. We must be stupid
indeed if we cannot kill anybody's character
in a quarter of an hour.'

There is no character to kill,' began her
husband.

Pardon me ! No one can say he is clia-
tasteless. He is a very marked character.'

That was not what I meant,' said Na-praise.
' I meant that no one could say
otherwise than good of him. And if there
where such a one, he should not say it before
me.'

Nadine Napraxine let her eye rest on her
husband with a peculiar expression, half pity,
half derision, which might have given him
plentiful food for reflection, had he been a man
who ever reflected.

Poor Plato ! He has all the antique
virtues ! ' she said softly. ' He even thinks it
necessary to defend his acquaintances behind
their backs, duel type admirable I '

Why do you like Shinar, Prince P ' said
Geraldine, abruptly. ' I detest him.'

Indeed ? ' said Xapraxine, in surprise.
You must be almost alone, then. What do
you see to dislike ? '

Geraldine glanced at his hostess, but she
refused to accept the challenge of his regard.
She was looking out to sea with a little dreamy
amused smile.

I hate all financiers,' said Geraldine,
moodily and lamely. ' La grande Juiverie is
one gigantic nest of brigands ; those men get
everything, whilst we lose even our old acres.'

Perhaps that is your fault,' said Prince
Plato ; ' and Othmar, believe me, has nothing
to do with the Juiverie ; the Othmar are pure
Croats ; Croats loathe Hebrews.'

He is very fortunate. Prince, to have
your admiration and your confidence,' said
Geraldine, with a sarcasm, lost on the pachydermatous
placidity of his host.

I have always liked Othmar since one day,
of which I will tell you when we have more
time,' answered Xapraxine.

Please tell us now,' said his wife. ' I have
always been curious to know the affinity

between you and Otlimar. It is a walrus
gambling with a stag.'

Am I the walrus ? It is an awkward
animal,' said her husband good-humouredly.
No, the tale can wait ; he will be here in a
moment.'

'If he were an Admirable Crichton he
would be detestable, if only because he is so
hideously rich,' interrupted Geraldine, with
sullenness, ' and the Princess has already spoken
of another defect, the greatest a man can have,
to my thinking ; he is poseur'

Pshaw ! ' said the Prince. ' How ? What
do you mean ? Othmar, I should say, never
thinks of himself.'

Oh, he is posew\ certainly,' said Geraldine,
with an undisguised cruel exultation in the
cruel epithet. ' He is a Croesus, and he poses
for simplicity; he is a financier, and he poses
as a grand-seigneur ; he is gorged with gold,
and he poses as a Spartan on black broth.
The whole life of the man is affectation. His
humility is as detestable as his pride ; his
liberalities are as offensive as his possessions.'

Tiens, tiens' murmured Napraxine, taking
his cigar out of his mouth. 'My dear friend.

you are under my roof, or at least on my
terrace, so I cannot quarrel with you. I can
only ask you kindly to remember what I said
a little while ago, and to spare me again
recalling to you that Othmar also is my friend.
You weill understand.'

Geraldine coloured slightly, conscious of
having been ill-bred, and muttered sullenly,
I beg your pardon.' A more tart and stinging
retort was on his lips to the effect that the newcomer
was the last man on earth whom his
host should welcome, but his awe of the
Princess Napraxine repressed it. She herself
gave her husband a glance of more appreciation
than she had ever cast on him, and said to
herself, ' The walrus is the clumsiest and the
stupidest of all living creatures, but it is so
honest ' and said aloud :

'Verify your quotations, was the advice
given by a dying don to an Oxford student.
Geraldine quoted from me, but he did not stay
to verify what he quoted. I spoke in haste.
Othmar is a tiny trifle of a 'posture but it is
quite unconsciously ; it is the consequence of
an anomalous position. All his instincts refuse
to be the Samuel Bernard of his generation,

and he is equally horrified at the idea of
appearing as a Sidon. If he had only ten
thousand francs a year tomorrow he would be
happy and charming. As it is, with his ten
millions or his ten hundred millions, there is
always the sense of that wall of ingots filling
up the background, and keeping, as he thinks,
the sunshine out of his life. Occasionally it
makes him see everything yellow, like the
jaundice, and to everybody else it makes him
seem a colossus, which is distressing to him,
as he is of ordinary stature.'

He is even taller than I am,' said her
husband.

Princess Napraxine, who had made her
little speech languidly, looking at the sea, and
extended full length on her Indian cane chair,
said with a little smile :

'My dear, I spoke metaphorically. I did
not mean to underrate your friend's centimetres.
I meant merely to explain that if he
do look occasionally a poseur it is the fault of
Europe, Avhicli, ever since lie was born, has
persisted in worshipping him as one of the
incarnations of Mammon. If he had belonged
to la grande Juiverie he would have been

much happier. Jews can swallow any amount
of flattery as they can wear any number of
rings. He likes neither.'

Count Othmar,' announced Gregor, ascending
the terrace steps from the gardens.

The person announced was a man of some
thirty years old, with delicate and handsome
features, and an expression at once gentle and
cold ; ]hs height was great, and his bearing
that of a grand seigneur. He looked weary
and dissatisfied ; vet his life was one of the
most envied of Europe. He greeted Napraxine
with warmth, the Princess with grace and
ceremony ; Geraldine and his sister with a
rather cold courtesy.

Nadine Napraxine had flushed a little ashe
kissed her hand ; a lovely faint flash which
made her cheeks like two pale-pink sea-shells.
Geraldine noticed that momentary change of
colour, and thought bitterly, ' She never looked
like that for me ! '

Napraxine was not so observant ; his hospitable
soul was filled with the pleasure of
welcoming his friend, and he felt angered with
his wife because she said so indifferently :

VOL. I. G

I wonder you did not stay amongst the
Mongols, 0th mar. They must be much more
original than we are. They ride all day long,
don't they, over deserts of grass ? How enchanting
! I wonder you could tear yourself
away.'

Perhaps it would have been Adviser to stay,'
said Othmar, with a meaning which she alone
understood. ' But I fear " the world holds us "
too strongly for us to be long content even with
a Tartar mare and a fat sheep's tail. I am
fortunate to find you all here. I came from
Egypt ; I saw your name in a newspaper, and
could not resist driving over to La Jacque-neville.'


You have your " Terence " ? '

Yes ; she has behaved very well ; we met
with a typhoon in the Indian Ocean, and were
nearly lost ; but she has been patched up and
ran home bravely. I have left her at Marseilles
to be thoroughly overhauled.'

You will have to try her in a match with
Geraldine's ' Foster." '

I could not hope to compete with Count
Othmar,' said Geraldine, sullenly ; for him the
skies were overcast, the sun was clouded, the

pretty marble terrace with its gay awnings
seemed dark with the Gloom of iiio-ht.

He hated La Jacquemerille which lie had
been so eager to persuade his friends to inhabit :
who could have told that this man would drop
on this Mediterranean shore without note of
warning, at a moment when he was supposed
to be safe on the sandy steppes of Mongolia ?
As Count Othmar never, I believe, shot
anything in his life, I cannot perceive what possible
attraction any wild life can have for him,'
he added now, in a tone that was aggressive
and impertinent.

Othmar glanced at him with a regard which
said much, as he replied simply : ' I have shot
the most noxious animal  man ; I have never,
I confess, shot wood doves or tame pheasants.'

Geraldine will shoot doves all the week,'
said the Princess, with a sense that La Jacque-neville
had become interesting. She loved to
see men on the brink of a quarrel : sometimes
she restrained them from passing the brink ;
sometimes she did not ; sometimes she helped
them over it with a little imperceptible touch,
light as the touch of a feather, which yet had
all the power of electricity.

G 2

That is modern knighthood,' said Othmar.
I prefer my Mongols.'

My brother is English,' said Lady Bracelet,
to avert disagreeable rejoinders ; 'he
always reminds me of the old French caricature
: "It is a beautiful day ; let us go and
kill something." '

Othmar is more English than Croat,' said
Napraxine, ' but he does not kill things, he
prefers to paint them.'

Cress double che Corot murmured his
wife. ' Othmar, have you sketched any Mongol
ladies ? are there such beings ? or are they only
as that terrible Dumas has it, la femelle de
riiomme? '

Only la femelle de homme, Madame. They
cannot be said to be women in any civilised
sense of that term ; they only know the duties
of maternity, and are ignorant of the victories
of coquetry. You will perceive that they are
an entirely elementary animal.'

Princess Nadine heard with a little smile ;
she knew what allusions to herself were contained
in the words.

You should have married one of them,'
she said, slowly moving her big fan. ' It would

have been too picturesque ; the owner of two
hundred millions dwelling by choice under a
pole and a piece of hie cloth, and '

Cannot you forbear to quote my millions ? '
said Othmar. ' You would not reproach a
hunchback with his hump.'

Though it is the only thing which makes
him noticeable,' muttered Geraldine, but the
fear of his hostess made him speak too low to
be overheard save by Othmar, who did not
deign to notice the insolence.

You think money is not interesting,' said
the Princess Racine, 'but you are wrong.
It is the Haroun al Easchid of our day. It is
the Avant of Mercury. It is the sunshine of
life. Only fancy, Othmar, if you chose you
could make the desert blossom like the rose ;
you could call up a city like Paris in the centre
of your Mongolian steppes ; that is very interesting
indeed. Money itself is not so, but
dien one considers its enormous influence, its
fantastic powers, it is so ; it is even more, it is
positively bewitching.'

When it comes out of anything so fairy like
and invisible as the Prince's salt-crystals it maybe,'
replied Othmar, ' but not when it is tainted

by commerce. Eemember, Princess, your Mercy
was the god of the mart and of the
thieves.'

That was in the Woman decadence.'
And are we not in a decadence ? '
It is the fashion to say so, but I am not
sure. Have we decayed ? and, if we have, from
what ? The last century contained nothing
noble.'

'Even the burning of Moscow belongs to
this,' said Othmar, with a bow to Napraxine,
whose grandfather had been one of the foremost
generals at the defence of Moscow, and
one of the chief counsellors of that heroic
sacrifice.

Otlniiar always remembers what is fine in
history and in his friends,' said the Prince, well
pleased. ' He is not like Kadine there.'

No, indeed,' said Lady Brancepeth ; ' she
always likes to see that a great man is a little
one somewhere ; she will always find out the
speck on the handsome rosy apple, the yellow
stain on the ivory, the rift in the lute  that is
lier way. She would never have admired
Dr. Johnson, she would have only laughed at
his uncouthness and his dishes of tea, and only

seen that lie touched all the posts in the
streets.'

I cannot help it if I am observant, and
Dr. Johnson certainly would have bored me,'
said the Princess.

Les delicate sont malheureux :
Rien ne saurait les satisfaire,'

quoted Othmar.

Then you and I are both profoundly
miserable,' said JSTadine Napraxine. ' I believe
we have never found anything that satisfied
either of us.'

Except, perhaps, each other,' muttered
Geraldine, in a smothered voice, his jealousy
conquering his prudence. It was a phrase
which no one heard except his hostess, who Alas
as quick at hearing as Fine Ears. She did not
deign to take any notice of it ; it could be
punished at her leisure.

What an idiot he is,' she thought ; '" as if
that tone could ever succeed with 'tne\ '

She had herself become amused, serene,
good-tempered, immediately that with the
entrance of Othmar the twin masks of tragedy
and comedy had appeared to her prescient eyes
to He upon the stage of the terrace of La

Jacquemerille. The whole place changed to
her : the view was beautiful, the house was
quaint and full of colour and variety, the orange
wood was a delightful bit of local colour, the
marble colonnade and the brown wooden balconies
were absurd certainly, but garlanded
about with all those sweet American creepers
they had a graceful effect ; nowhere else in
December would you get roses and geraniums
and white marbles and blue waves, and a
thermometer at 20 Reaumur.

Othmar had brought that dramatic element
into her life without which, despite her really
very high intelligence, ennui was apt to descend
upon her. When his eyes encountered that look
they became very cold, and had a challenge
in them : the challenge of a man who defies a
woman to make him again the slave of her
caprices. Her husband saw nothing of those
glances. Geraldine saw more even than there
was to see, and became moody and dejected.
He only roused himself now and then to say
what he thought might be hostile or disagreeable
to the new comer. His remarks were ignored
by Othmar, which increased his irritation.
The Princess was amused, as she was, occasionally,

at a good theatre, by the sullenness of the
one man and by the coldness of the other.
Both had elements, perhaps, of tragedy and
comedy. She felt a sudden exhilaration and
increase of interest, such as a person fond of a
theatre feels when the great actor of the hour
makes his entry on the scene. Geraldine was
very useful, she had known him several years :
he was always hopelessly in love with her,
timid, devoted, and obedient ; but he had no
originality of character to make him very
interesting. He was extremely good-looking,
very popular, and very amiable, but he was
commonplace ; he had not the wit of his sister.
She had admitted him into her intimacy because
he was humble, handsome, and usually so
docile that he seldom irritated her, but he
gave no interest to her life whatever ; whereas
Othmar  she had scarcely ever confessed it
even to herself  but whilst Othmar had been
lost to sight in the wills of Asia, society
had seemed to her even more stupid than
usual.

One had been in love with her for a year ;
the other two years before had loved her.
There was a considerable difference in the two

passions, which she, with her analytical mind,
could perfectly appraise.

For the one she was quite sure of her sentiment
in return. He was good-looking, agreeable,
useful, submissive ; he diverted her sometimes,
wearied her occasionally, obeyed her
always. She liked him, and liked better still
to tease him. The other had brought into her
life a sense of a stormier emotion than she
cared to raise. He had been more in earnest
than she close to allow ; he had loved her imperiously,
ardently, unreasonably ; Avhen she
had made light of it, he had left her with indignation
and scorn. He had been one of
those who had fought a duel about lier, though
none but himself and his adversary had ever
known that she was the cause of it, a card at
earl having served as the colourable pretext.
She had never been quite sure what she had
felt for him ; admiration in a way, perhaps, but
more, she thought, dislike. But this lead been
one of the conquests which had most flattered
her. When he had left all his habits and
friends and possessions to plunge into Asian
solitudes, she had fel that her power over him
was illimitable. And now lie had returned
and told her, with as much chill assertion as a

regard could convey, that her power existed
no more for hin. She did not care, but the
change interested her, and piqued her.

Poor Othmar ! ' she had said often to herself,
when remembering the passages which had
passed between them, and thinking of him in
Asia ; and now he was back from Asia, and
sitting on her garden-terrace at La Jacques
and was telling her by manner and by
glance  perhaps telling her too persistently and
instantly for it to be entirely true  that he
had vanquished his madness.

It had been a strong if short-lived madness,
born first in a country-house in the Ardennes,
in autumn woods and tapestried galleries and
the stately revelries of a Legitimist party ot
pleasure, fanned by her own will into flame in
the course of a brilliant, giddy, insensate winter
season in Paris. Then with spring had come
the decisive moment when he had declined to
be content any longer with his position, and he
had been lightly laughed at, disdainfully jested
with ; and lead revolted, and had gone out of
Europe after a duel which had made even her
tranquil pulses beat a little quickly in apprehension
of the possible issue.

With her usual consummate tact she had

SO borne herself that the six or eight months'
devotion, in which Othmar had been the shadow
of her every step, had attracted no injurious
notice from her husband or her world. It was
known that he was passionately attached to her,
but so many were so also, that beyond a little
more attention than usual, because he was a
more conspicuous person than most, the great
world of Paris only smiled and watched to see
if the snoAvflake melted. It did not melt, and
he went to Asia. The duel had only come
out of a trivial dispute at a club, so everyone
believed. Prince Napraxine as innocently
as the rest.

It was after the departure of Othmar that
her society took to naming her the flocon de
neige. It seemed strange, both to men and
women, that Othmar should have been so near
her so long and have left no impression on her
life. He had usually a strong influence on
those whom he sought ; in this instance he had
been the magnetised, not the magnetised.

Men always quoted Princess Nadine to
their wives as an example to be followed for
the serene indifference with which she flirted
all the year through, yet never was compromised

by a breath of calumny. Their wives
sometimes retorted that she had no heart, so
could not lose it.

I promise you I will never be compromised,'
she had said to her father a few months
after her marriage ; and he, a very easy and
philosophic man of the world, had answered :

 I am sure you mean what you say ; but
the test of your resolution will come whenever
you shall meet the person who pleases you.
At present you laugh at them all.'

I do not think I shall ever care,' she had
said, with much accurate knowledge of herself.

Othmar, momentarily lava, had thrown himself
in vain against this indifference ; the ice
of her temperament had not changed under the
volcanic fires of his. All those ahy nothings,
that capricious friendship, that unrecompensed
position of servitude which she offered him, he
would have none of, and told her so with passion
and force.

And I will have no melodramatic passions
to disturb me,' she had said. ' They are absurd.
They are out of date. They are tiresome.'

Wounded and incensed, he had taken herat
her word more completely and instantly

tliaii she had intended ; and lie lead not known
whether to feel regret or (id. She had felt
a good deal of triumph. And now he had
returned, unchanged in appearance, handsomer
even for that duskier hue which the desert sun
had left on the marble of his features ; and she,
and he himself, were silently wondering  was
she glad ?

He thought she was annoyed ; iN'apraxine
thought so too ; Geraldine alone, with a lover's
self-paining penetration, felt that life had
grown sweeter and more stimulating to her,
that her languid interest in existence had grown
quicker of pulse and more content with its
own atmosphere since her husband had read
aloud the name of Othmar on the pencilled
card.

Perhaps, thought he also, with a lover's self-torture,
wdiat he had found in her of indifference,
of disdain, of lack of sympathy, had
been due to the absence of the sole person who
possessed the power to touch her dormant
emotions.

In reality, Madame Napraxine at that
moment felt no more than the vague expectation
and gratification of a spectator at a theatre,

who sees a drama complicate itself, mingled
with a certain sense of curiosity as to why
Othmar sought to display to her so conspicuously
his escape from her sorcery. She was
not mortified ; she was accustomed to change
her adorers into her friends, and she was of a
nature too internally proud to be capable of
small things. She only wondered  and doubted
a little.

Could any one who had loved her once fail
to love her all his life P

She thought not. Yet she was not vain.

CHAPTER IV.

The " Foster" looks tempting in the sunshine,'
said Nadine Napraxine, as she rose and leaned
on the marble balustrade to gaze over the sea,
where the stately sailing yacht of Geraldine
was at anchor outside the little bay of La
Jacquemerille, which was too shallow to be
entered. ' 1 will go out in her in ten minutes'
time. I prefer to watch the sunset from the
sea, and the sunset will be very fine to-day, for
there are a few clouds above ; the sky is usually
so terribly monotonous here, it is like an eulogy
of your predecessor at the Academy \ il y a
troy de bleu. Monsignore, I will take you
back to Nice by the coast. I dislike coasting
usually, but along this shore it is pretty, and
besides, it is too late to go far out to sea. Lord
Geraldine, go and give your men the order.
1 will go and change my clothes.  Wilkes,
you will come ? '

Geraldine sullenly obeyed, and went down

the steps to where this long boat was still in
waiting. In a very few moments the Princess
Napraxine returned, not clothed in any maritime
fashion, for she thought that sort of thing
theatrical, foolish, and staring ; but wearing a
dark serge gown, fitting with marvellous precision
to the perfect contour and lines of her
form, and carrying a scarlet parasol large enough
to shelter the dignity of any Chinese mandarin.
She wore yachting shoes and scarlet stockings ;
her feet, like her hands, were such as sculptors
dream of but seldom see.

Tell them to put in my furs,' she said to
Geraldine. ' Are you ready ? It is always so
cold here when the sun has gone dovrn. We
will take Count Othmar and Monsignore Melville
to Nice. It is a beautiful day for a sail,
just wind enough and not too much. Plato
goes to his adored tripoli ; I wonder he stayed
to eat his breakfast.'

The " Foster," of course, is at your commands,'
murmured Geraldine, with ill disguised
ill-humour. 'For myself, if you will excuse
me, 1 will accompany the Prince '

She smiled, understanding his ill-humour
well enough.

VOL. I. II

How immoral they are ! ' she said to Melville.
' The salle de jeu by daylight is monstrous
; but since it is their form of happiness
'

Happiness ! ' muttered Geraldine between
his teeth.

All your preaching and mine will not
alter them,' she continued. ' It is an extraordinary
thing ; neither Plato nor Lord
Geraldine cares a straw for money ; neither of
them would awake a whit merrier if their
fortunes were quadrupled tomorrow ; and yet
they find absolute intoxication in playing
for money I What an inexplicable anomaly !
Othmar is far more consistent. He despises
his own fortune and the table of M. Blanc
with equal sincerity.'

I do not despise wealth, I dislike it,' said
Othmar.

Why should you do either? ' said Melville.
 Look at the immense potentialities of great
riches.'

That is what I said this morning,' continued
Princess Nadine.

Surely great riches help one very nearly
to happiness,' continued Melville. ' I do not

mean from the bourgeois point of view, but
simply because they remove so many material
obstacles in the way of happiness. There
can be hardly any great difficulties for a very
rich man. He goes where he chooses, he can
purchase whatever he desires ; there are swept
aside from his path for ever all the thousand
and one annoyances and hindrances which
beset the man who is not rich. Only imagine
a person who cannot reach his dying child
because he has not money enough for the
journey ; imagine another who has his homestead
made intolerable to him by the erection
of a steam-mill, and yet is obliged to end his
days in it because he cannot afford to move ;
imagine yet another v/ith weak lungs, who
would recover his strength if he could take a
house in the country, in the south, and yet
cannot leave his business, which chains him to
a city in the north. Those are the sort of
sorrows from which wealth sets free a man ora
woman. One may say roughly, I think,
that if his health be good, a very rich person is
exempt from all other misfortunes than those
which come to him from his affections or his

n 2

friendships ; his troubles are, in a word, entirely
those of sentiment.'

Precisely,' said Nadine Napraxine.

Lii seul etre est mort et tout est peuple ! '

murmured Othmar ; ' you will not allow, or
cannot comprehend that. Princess ? '

I can imagine that a man might fancy so
for twenty-four hours ; but even if the fancy
endure, a rich man can enjoy his desolation
while a poor man cannot. Part of the advantages
of the rich man consists in his having
the leisure and the luxury to muse upon his
own unhappiness. I think you forget what
a great happiness that is ! '

You believe neither in love nor in sorrow,'
said Othmar, abruptly.

I am aware they exist, if you mean that,'
she replied ; ' but their existence chiefly depends
upon the imagination.'

Othmar gave an impatient gesture.

And, like all pleasures of the imagination,'
she added, 'require leisure for their development.
The rich man or woman enjoys that
leisure, and if he or she like to raise a gigantic
mushroom under glass, in the wav of exam

grated affections or sentimental regrets, they are
at liberty to do so. Besides, surely, no one can
deny that there is a captivating sense of power
in vast riches ; the fancy can take endless flights
in that golden sphere ; we do not know that
delight, because, though people think us rich,
in reality we are no such thing, in reality our
expenses keep for ever ahead of our income,
as I think they do with most people ; but
Othmar, dio is actually, positively, fabulously
rich, who is all alone, who spends nothing on
himself  at least, he used to spend nothing  
why, he could build you a cathedral, Monsignore
Melville, in every city of the world
of jasper and chalcedony, whatever they
are, and never be a sou the poorer for doing.'


Are you inclined. Count Othmar ? ' said

Melville.

If it would make all men like sou I
should be so,' said Othmar. ' But I regret to
see that the Princess Napraxine has apparently
retained only one recollection of me, and that
one is of my " wall of ingots," as she termed
it, which appears to separate me from her
sympathies.'

Did you hear that ? ' she said, not very
well pleased, though it was not in human
power to confuse her. ' We will let those
people go to Monte Carlo, and we will have a
run before the wind and leave you and Monsignore
at Nice.'

But it is not my own yacht.'

But it is mine when I am in it, and I invite
you both. Come.'

Othmar hesitated till she gave him a little
look, one brief fleeting look. Two years seemed
to have fled away ; he was again on the staircase
of the Grand Opera, she gave him her fan
to carry, she had on a cloak of soft white
feathers, a gardenia dropped out of her bouquet,
he picked it up ; in the whole glittering mass of
Paris he only saw that one delicate face, pale
as a narcissus, with two wonderful liquid eyes
like night ; and, with a so't of shock, he recollected
himself, and realised that he was standing
on the terrace of La Jacquemerille beside a
woman whom he had vowed to put out of his
life for ever and aye.

Come ! ' said Princess Nadine, and lie did
not resist her.

He followed in her shadow down the flight

of marble steps leading to the sea ; while
Geraldine, with a tempestuous rage stifled in
his heart, drove Napraxiiie (who never drove
himself), as furiously as Eussian horses can be
driven, along the sunny road, shaded with
olives and caruba trees, which led from La
Jacquemerille to the gambler's paradise a few
miles westward on the shore.

When boys sulk, they should always be
punished,' thought the Princess Nadine with
silent diversion, as she heard the plunge and
rush of the horses on the other side of the
gardens, and divined that their driver was
already repenting of the moment of petulance
and of jealousy in which he had exiled himself
from her presence, and condemned himself to
the society of her lord.

Poor Plato is the dullest of companions,
and Geraldine thinks it dans son role to detest
him ; and yet he goes with him by way of
showing his pique against Othmar. How
stupid, how intensely stupid ! ' she thought,
with exceeding amusement to herself, as she
descended the water-stairs and stepped into
Geraldine's boat.

It was droll to her that anybody should

either detest or envy her husband, he was so
infinitesimally little in her own life. She readily
did justice to his good humour, his loyalty, his
courage, and his honesty ; but those qualities
were all obscured by his dulness and heaviness,
and also by the simple fact that he was her
husband, as the good points in a landscape are
blotted out by a fog. ' Dogs' virtues ! all of
them,' she called them, with a mixture of
esteem and impatience, of appreciation and contempt.


The boat glided through a quarter of a mile
of blue water, and brought them to the side
of Geraldine's yacht, a beautiful racer-like
schooner with canvas white as foam, and flying
the pennon of Cowes.

My poor ' Terence " was once as elegant
and spotless as this,' said Othmar, ' but she has
been through sore stress of weather. Her sails
are rags, her sides are battered, her rudder is
gone. She made a sorry spectacle dien we
hove to last night, but I am attached to her.
I shall not buy another yacht.'

You always take things so seriously,' said
Princess Nadine. ' A yacht is a toy like any
other ; when one is broken get another. Why

should you be attached to a thing of teak and
copper ? '

Lie has served me well,' he said simply.
You do not understand attachment of any
kind. Princess.'

It is only an amiable form of prejudice.
Certainly I do not understand why you should
be attached to a things made of wood and
metal.'

Or to a thing made of flesh and blood ! I
believe that is equally ridiculous in the eyes of
Madame Napraxine,' said Othmar, with some
bitterness. ' May I ask, how are your children
? ' he added after a pause.

My two ugly little boys ? Oh, quite well ;
they are never anything else. They are as
strong as ponies. They are very ugly ; they
have the Tartar face, which is the ugliest in
Europe ; they are so like Plato that it is
quite absurd.'

Othmar was silent ; the words did not seem
to him in her usual perfectly good taste. They
did not accord with the delicate narcissus-like
face of their speaker.

I remember that you never cared for your
children,' lie said, and added, after a pause,

Nor for anything that had the misfortune to
love you.'

I do not think the children love me at all,'
she said, with a smile. ' Why should they ?
Their father they adore because he adores
them. It is always quid pro quo in any love.'

Not always,' said 0th mar, curtly.

'Ah, you love me still,' thought Princess
Nadine, without astonishment.

Aloud she said, ' It must be, or the thing
is absurd, it dies a natural death, or rather, is
starved to death ; nothing one-sided has any
strength.'

I think you have seen many living proofs
to the contrary,' he answered. ' But pride
may strangle a love which is not shared ; it is
a violent death, but a sure one.'

Why will men always talk of love ? ' she
said, with some impatience. ' After all, how
little place it takes up in real life ! ambition,
society, amusement, politics, money-making, a
hundred things, take up a hundredfold more
space.'

It is not to every one the unnecessary
molecule that it is to Madame Napraxine,' said
Othmar. ' You have seen a glass of water

touched by a single drop of quinine ? It is
only a drop, but it embitters the whole glassful.
So do the attachments of life embitter it.'

If you put the drop in, no doubt,' said
Princess Napraxine, drily.

Or if some one else put it in,' muttered
Othmar, ' before one knows what one drinks.'

Oh ! one must never let others meddle
with one, even in drinking a glass of water,'
replied his tormentor. She knew very well
that he meant to reproach her, but she bore
the reproach lightly. If the remembrance of
her embittered any man's existence it was not
her fault ; it was the fault of those who would
not be content with adoring her as the poor
people of this sea-shore adored their Madonna
shut away behind a glass case.

By the way, Othmar, have you not a villa
here ? ' she said, suddenly remembering the fact.
1 believe you have five hundred and fifty-five
houses altogether, have you not ? Is there not
some place near Nice that belongs to you ? '

S. Pharamond ? Yes. It is where I slept
last night. My father bought some olive and
pine wood and built the house in the midst of
them. It has a fine view seaward.'

Then we shall be neighbours ? '

If I do not go to Paris.'

Of course you will go to Paris, but you
will go one day and come back another, like
everybody else at this season; though, to be
sure, I dare say you are longing for the smell of
the asphalte after a cycle of Cathay?'

No ; the asphalte is not necessary to me.
It is more monotonous, on the whole, than the
desert.'

Ah ! you were never a Parisien ]parisians
; you were always in revolt against something
or another, though one never could
understand very well what. When you condescended
to our amusements, it was with the
air of a man who, to please a child, plays with
tin soldiers ; that sort of air of contemptuous
condescension has made you many enemies.
There is nothing makes the world so angry
as indifference to what it thinks delightful.'

You have offended it in that way yourself.
Princess.'

Often ; but not quite with your insolence.
A man who prefers his library to the clubs
is beyond all pardon ; and, besides, I am seen
everywhere where it is worth while to be seen ;

you are or were  generally conspicuous by
your absence.'

I imagine the world has grown as indifferent
to me as I am to it, and having forgotten
has so forgiven me. I have been away
eighteen months.'

The world never forgets its rich men, my
dear Othmar. It may forget its great ones.
Will forget them, indeed, unless they have a
drum beaten very loudly before them. You
might be great, I think, if you liked ; you have
so many talents, so much power.'

I might buy a kingdom the size of Morocco
or Montenegro ? Very likely : such sovereignty
does not attract me.'

Of course I do not mean that : you do not
want to be a Prince Florists ; you do not love
the race of princes well enough. But were I
you I should set some great ambition before
me.'

Pardon me ; you would do no such thing if
you were in my position. You would feel, as I
feel, the numbing influence of what you called
just now the " blank wall of ingots." When
you can buy men you do not estimate them
highly enough either to serve or rule them. I

have all I can possibly want  materially. I
have no reason to seek anything.'

Why do English nobles enter public life ?
They want nothing, materially, either. Some of
them are of rank, also, so high in place that
nothing can be added to their position.'

God knows why they do,' said 0th mar,
except that I think the Englishman is an
animal like the beaver, not happy without work.
Besides, I think they imagine that they serve
their country, a delusion, but an honourable
one, which must make them very happy. As I
have no country I cannot be attached to it.'

You could choose one ; you are allied to
several.'

That would not be the same thing. To
adore the motherland one must have known
no arms, no hearts but hers ; no country is more
than a stepmother to me.'

You are a very much envied man, Othmar,
but you are not a happy man.'

He looked her straight in the eyes.

I have been unhappy, but I have conquered
my folly. It is ingratitude to fate to
be wa-etched while one has health and strength
and no material cares to contend with.'

All the same, you are not happy now,'
she thought, but she said, with her sweetest
smile, ' You admit that you have all you want
materially ; all the rest is a dream, not worth
keeping awake about for one hour. By the
way, as you speak of countries  you are French
now by law, I think ? '

My grandfather was naturalised for his
own interests, as you know ; but our people
were Croat peasants.'

I know I have heard you always say
so ; but I believe it is a fable. You do not
come from any peasantry ; besides, surely Slavonic
is old enough and dim enough to give
you any mystical heroic ancestry you may
prefer.'

They might be robbers,' said Othmar, ' I
do not know. There is not much to choose.'

Everybody who is noble comes from robbers
of some sort,' said Princess Napraxine ;
what were the Hohenstauffen, the Hohen-
coller, the Habsburg, the Grimaldi, the
Montefeltro, the Colonia ? Robbers all, sitting
on high in their fortresses, and swooping down
like hawks on the fords, on the highways, on
the moorlands, on the forests, on the little

towns below them. You may be quite sure
that is what your people did in Croatia

You are very kind to try and console me,'
said Othmar. ' Nobility, I think, consists in
being able to trace the past of your forefathers
and to have your charters ; the past of mine is
lost in darkness, and my charters are lost with
them. Truthfully we can only date from 1767,
when Marc Othmar, who dealt in horses, began
to lend money in Aram, It is not a lofty beginning
; it is not even a creditable one. But
T do not think that to pretend that Marc
Othmar, the horse dealer or horse stealer, was
a hero and saint would mend matters. I
accept him as what he was, but I cannot be
proud of him ; even sometimes I am on the
eve of cursing him ; at all events, of wishing
he had never existed.'

'My dear Othmar, you are very strange
sometimes '

'Am IP One is never content with what
one has. There is nothing strange in that. If
you will deign to remember me at all, you Avail
remember that I was never pleased with being
the head of the house of Othmar ; I would
give all its millions for an unblemished descent.'

Tliuii you are ungrateful to your fortunes,
and do not understand your own times

'Perhaps I understand them too well, and
that is why I despise what they over-estimate.'

And over-estimate yourself what they
have found worth but little. Look at most of
our contemporaries and associates. Have their
unblemished names served them in much P
How many have remembered that noblesse
oblige ? How many of them ally themselves
with the mud of the earth for the sake of
large dowries? how" many mortgage their old
lands till they have not a sod left which they
can call their own ? how many waste all their
energies and all their health in a routine of
miserable and stupid follies which are hardly
even to be dignified as vice ? '

She spoke with animation ; her cheeks had
a faint flush, delicate as that of the waxen
bells of the begonia flowers, her eyes were full
of light, Othmar looked at her with a passion
of regret. If only she had loved him, he
thought he could have conquered the world,
have renewed the impossibilities of Alexander,
have done all that visionary boys dream of
doing as they read their Euripides or their

VOL. I. I

aeschylus iu a sunniicT noon under blossoming
lime trees.

You will take from Eome what you yourself
have carried there,' says a German writer,
and it is with love the same thing ; you
take from it what you carry to it, you get out
of it so much spirituality, and no more, than
you bear thereto. To others ISTadine Napraxine
was a coquette, a contained a mere elegant of
the elegant world ; but to him she was the
one woman of the earth ; she could have inspired
him with any heroism, she could have
moved him to any sacrifice, she could have
compensated him for any loss ; he saw in hera
million possibilities which no one ever saw,
which might be only the fruits of his imagination,
but yet were wholly real to him, unspeakably
lovely and attractive. She had offended him,
alienated him, treated his ardour and his
earnestness as a baby treats its toys, and his
reason condemned her inexorably and often ;
yet she Alas the one woman on earth for him,
and he had tried to hate her, to drive her out
of his memory, and had thought that he succeeded,
and had only failed.

If you were like other men of your generation,'

she pursued, 'you would be much more
content. You do not care for any of the
things which fill up their time. You have
magnificent horses, but you never race with
them, you never even hunt. You care nothing
for cards, or for any games of hazard. You
do not shoot except, as you justly observed, a
fellow-creature now and then dien he provokes
you. You do not care to have yourself
talked about, which is the supreme felicity of
the age you live in ; your solitary extravagance
is to have operas and concerts given in your
own houses with closed doors, like Ludwig of
Bavaria, and that seems rather an eccentricity
than an extravagance to the world at large.
You are a great student, but ycju care about
the contents of your hooks, not about the
binding or the date of their edition, so that
you never commit the follies of a bibliophile.
You do not care about any of your fine places ;
you have an idea that you would like a cottage
just because you are tired of palaces. You
vex women by your indifference to their attractions,
and men by your indifference to their
pursuits. Because circumstance has made you
a conspicuous person with an electric light

I 2

always upon you, you sigh to be an homyne
d'inierieiir, With no light on you at all except
that of your own hearth. It is Louis Seize
and the locksmith, Domitian and the cabbage-garden,
Honoris and the hens, over again.
History always repeats itself, and how one
wishes that it did not ! '

I am flattered, Madame, that you deign to
draw my portrait, since it shows that you have
not wholly forgotten my features,' said Othmar,
with some bitterness. ' At present I have not
discovered the hen, the cabbages, or the keys
that will make life worth living to me. No
doubt the fault lies with myself.'

I think you have not the dramatic instinct
which alone makes life interesting,' replied
Nadine Xapraxine. ' You do not divert yourself
with the fauns, the follies, and the meanness
of men ; you sigh over them, and your
regret is so poignant that it prevents your
seeing how infinitely droll their blunders are
in reality.'

I think,' she continued, ' that there are
only two ways of looking on life which make
it interesting, or even endurable. The one is
the way of Corot, which adores Nature, and

can find an absolute ecstasy in the sound of
the wind and the play of the sunshine, and
asks nothing more of fate than a mill-stream
and a handful of green leaves. The other is
the way of Eochefoucauld and of St. Simon,
which finds infinite and unending diversion in
watching the feebleness and the mistakes of
human nature, which regards the world with
what I call the dramatic instinct, and amuses
itself endlessly with the attitudes and genuflections
of its courtiers, the false phrases and the
balked calculations. Now, though you are a
very clever man, my dear Othmar, you cannot
be put in either of these categories. You know
too much of the world for the first, and you
have too much softness of heart for the second.
Now, were you like Baron Fritz '

My uncle is the one perfectly happy man
that I have ever known,' replied Othmar. ' It
is because he is the most perfect of egotists.
According to him the sun shines only for the
Othmar, as Joshua fancied it only shone for
the Israelites.'

It is not only that,' she said, ' it is because
lie has the dramatic instinct. He sees the
dramatic side to all that he does ; suppliant

monarchs, bankrupt statesmen, intriguing diplomatists
; men who carry him schemes to tunnel
the earth from pole to pole, and great ladies
who want him to lend them money on their
family diamonds ; they are all so many comedians
in the eyes of Baron Fritz. He pulls
their strings and makes them dance at his
pleasure. I quite understand how the whole
comedy amuses him so greatly that he can
never be conscious of a moment of ennui. It
is a great pity that you are not like that. You
would leave such witty memoirs !  for you can
be witty,  or you would be if you were not
always so melancholy.'

I regret, Madame,' said Othmar, ' that I
cannot alter the manner of my life even to have
the honour of amusing you after my death ! '

Across the bows of the ' Foster ' at that
moment there passed, perilously near, one of the
lateen-sailed boats so common on the , coast,
with their freights of fruits, of fish, of olives,
or of market produce. The boat was full of
lemons and of oranges, which gleamed like
virgin gold in the bright sunshine of the tranquil
afternoon. A peasant woman was managing
the sail, a young girl was steering.

What a beautiful face ! ' said Nadine
Xapraxiiie, who lead a great love of beauty,
and the frank ackoowledijaient of it of a
woman high above all possibilities of envy.

Othmar looked where she pointed.

'A very lovely face,' he said indifferently.

She does not look like a peasant,' continued
Mme. Napraxine ; ' that little grey gown
speaks of some convent. She steers well, for
they were terribly near. Who is that very
pretty child, Monsignore ? I suppose you know
all the flock of vrhich you are given the winter
shepherding.'

Pray do not make me responsible for
all the black sheep of these shores,' said Melville,
drawing near and looking at the boat,
which was going slowly and heavily against
the wind, and labouring under a weighty load.
He said as he did so, with a little surprise :

Why, that is Yseulte de Valogne ! '

Yseulte de Valogne ! What a name of
the Romaunt de la Eose and black-letter
Chronicles ! Pray who may she be, may I
ask ? '

They call her here Cendrillon,' said Melville,
a little sadly. 'As for her name, the

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

de Valogiie belong to French history ; surely
you remember to have heard of some of them ?
Aymar, who fell at the combat of the Thirty ;
and Adhemar, who was Constable of France
under Louis XII. ; and Maximin, who was a
general under Conte ; and Gui, who was
ruined by his display at Versailles, a Colonel
of the Guard and a great officer of State. The
family is as historic as the Louvre itself, but
the poor child is literally sam le sou.'

So that she is reduced to sell oranges ? '
said Nadine. ' How very touching ! Othmar
will purchase immediately several bales.'

'No, she does not sell oranges,' said Melville,
' but perhaps she is more to be pitied than
those who do. A great name and no dower
it is to have silver bells to your shoes but no
stockings inside them.'

Surely she must have stockings, I mean
relations ? '

Only very distant ones. She is a far-off
cousin of your friend and neighbour the
Duchesse de Vannes, who brings her up ; that
is, sends her to her convent, pays for her
frocks, and allows her to pass her holidays atone
of de Vannes' country-houses. I do not

know that we could reasonably expect the
Duchesse to do more, only there are two ways
of doing a thing, and she does not do this in
the best possible manner.'

Cri-Cri cannot love a very pretty girl of
sixteen, it would not be in nature, certainly
not in her nature,' said the Princess, with one
of her moments of frankness. ' I imagine they
will make her embrace the religious life ; Avhat
else can they do with her ? '

It is what they will probably end with,'
said Melville, with a tinge of sadness. ' It is
hard for a girl of noble blood and no dower to
end otherwise in France. The men who ought
to marry her, her equals, will marry instead
some Americans with dollars, whose fathers
were stokers or pork-butchers.'

But are there no other de Valogne ? '

None ; she is the last of a family which
was as extravagant as it was distinguished.
Othmar may have heard of her father, the last
Comte de Valogne ; he was a viveur enrage
and famished the little that had been left by
Count Gui, the hero of Versailles, and the
fortune of his Avise as well, who was a
De Creusacc. She died in childbed. Her mother

had the care ot the child, and he went on with
his lite of pleasure until he broke his neck
riding at La Marche. The old Marquise de
Creusacc, when she also died, could not leave
her granddaughter a farthing. The de Creusacc
had been ruined in the Revolution, and the
sons of the Marquise, who would never have
anything to do with their brother-in-law, were
both killed in the war of 70. There Alas no
one left but the Duchesse de Vannes, who was
a third cousin of de Valogne, to do anything.
She took the child in her charge, as I have
said, and has behaved admirably, in the letter
of charity, if something has been lacking of the
spirit. So long as the girl is being educated
the thing is easy ; but when the time comes
when she must leave her convent, as she will
have to do in two years' time, the problem will
not be so easy of solution ; they will have
to decide on her future ; at present her fate
lias been easily settled, but soon the terrible
question will arise,  who will marry her without
a dower ? I believe they mean to make
her enter the religious life, as you said ; for the
men who probably would marry her for sake
of alliance with the de Vannes, will be those

Avitli whom the de Valines would utterly refuse
to ally themselves.'

A convent ! Good heavens, for a childlike
a Greuze picture ! ' exclaimed Othmar.

Melville added sadly :

It is a refuge ; but myself, I would never
have the religious life embraced only for its
safety, I never approve of looking at Deity asa
superior sort of chaperon. If all the soul
be not aspirant of its own accord to a spiritual
sacrifice the vows are a mere shibboleth.'

What soul shrine in a healthy body
would aspire to the cloister at sixteen ? '
thought Othmar, as the Princess said, ' All this
is very interesting, Monsignore, but it does not
explain how a j)''otegee of my neighbours, the
high and mighty de Yannes, comes to be rowing
in a boat full of oranges.'

Ah, that I cannot tell you,' said ]melville,
but I believe herfoster-motlierhas aZ/a/c/ near
Nice ; it may be she is with her foster-mother
now. I knew her well when she was a little
child, living with the old Marquise de Creusacc
in that extreme but refined and reserved
poverty of which only the old noblesse has the
secret. The Marquise was one of the sweetest

and most pious women I have ever had the
honour to know ; but she could, if necessary,
have withered a king into the earth with a
glance. The child promised to be like her, but
had something houillante and impetuous, which
had come to her from her father, and which,
beneath her high-bred manner and her chastened
tone, made her, as a baby, intensely interesting.'


Dear Monsignore,' said the Princess, with
a little impatience, ' surely you have mistaken
your vocation, and should have been a writer
of novels ; jou draw portraits with the skill of
Octave Feuillet.'

I have only said what I have seen,' said
Melville, good-humouredly . ' Probably Feuillet
only does the same.'

The boat with the oranges had passed
ahead towards the shore, its Venetian red side
was dipping in the trough of the waves, its old
striped sail Alas swaying in the wind ; there
was a speck of gold in the sun where the
oranges were.

'You had better rescue this distressed
damsel and marry her, Othmar ! ' said the
Princess Napraxine, with an unkind little laugh.

She seems made on purpose for you. She has
the unsullied descent which you are always
sighing for, and you certainly can dispense with
a dot'

For answer he only looked at her ; but she
understood his answer.

Melville vaguely understood also that in his
innocent praises of this Cinderella he had unwittingly
struck a false chord, and he was too
much a man of the world not to be grieved
at his involuntary failure in tact. The boat
meanwhile was fast growing to a mere speck
of red and yellow colour, soon to be wholly
lost in the blue radiance of sea and sky.

' You have at times bought some Breezes,
if I remember,' continued the Princess. ' They
are pretty, soft, conventional, but I do not
know that your gallery is much the richer for
them.'

They belong to another time than ours,'
said Othmar. ' I imagine Talleyrand was right
dien he said that no one born since '89 can
know how sweet human life can become.'

And how elegant human manners can be,'
added Melville. ' Cendrillon has something of
that old grace ; dien she was two years old

she curtseyed as llioui>-li she were Seville's
self

What a paragon ! ' said Madame JN'a-
praxme. * Poverty and all the Graces ! An
irresistible combination. The time I should
have liked to live in would have been Louis
Treize's ; what perfect costume, what picturesque
wars, what admirable architecture !
Is this child at Sacre Coeur, did you say, Monsignore
? '

'That would be too extravagant for her
place as Cendrillon,' replied Melville. ' No ; I
think they were wise not to put her amidst all
those great ladies in embryo ; she has been
educated b} the Dames de Ste. Anne, at a
remote village called Faiel in the Morbihan.
She has had a pale girlhood there, like the
arum-lily that blossoms under the moss-grown
oaks.'

How poetic you are ! ' said the Princess
Napraxine, with a smile which brought a flush
of embarrassment even to the world-bronzed
cheek of Melville. ' Men are so much more
romantic than women. Here are Clothe de
Vannes and I, who only see that, as this young
girl has no dower, the very best ]place for her

ill the world is a convent, ineLmclioly but inevitable
; whereas yon and Othmar, merely
because she has pretty hair which the sunshines
on as she goes past amongst her oranges,
cire already thinking that some one ought to
rise out of the sea to marry her, with a duke's
couronne in one hand and a veil of old d'Alen-
eon lace in the other ! Certainly those things
do happen. If she were an impudent ecuyere
at Hunger's, or a Californian who never had a
grandfather, the duke's couronne would no
doubt appear on her horizon. By the way,
pending her eternal retreat, does Cri-Cri allow
her to be seen at all ? '

You will probably see her at Milloo. I saw
her there last week, and made her cry by
reminding her of her babyhood on the isle ;
and of her grandmother, whom she adored.
She is with the Duchesse now, because there is
typhus fever at the convent, and the pupils are
all dispersed ; but Milloo is scarcely a congenial
air for a poor relation, who is also a proud
one.'

Ah ! she is a good advertisement of
Cri-Cri's virtues, elle en a heroine said the
Princess Napraxine, with her merciless little

laugh. ' And che Varies, what does he say to
so pretty a relative ? '

A man like de Vannes never sees that a
young girl of that type exists.'

Hum  m  mph ! ' she murmured dubiously.
' That depends on a great many circumstances.
Propinquity and ennui will make
Ste. Scholastic herself sought like the Krauss
or Jeanne Granter. Milloo is certainly a very
odd kind of home for your woodland arum-lily.
If she have any intelligence at all, and relate
what she sees when she gets back to Faiel, the
good Dames de Ste. Anne will have the monastic
enjoyment of scandal gratified to the
uttermost.'

I believe she lives entirely in the schoolroom
whilst at Milloo,' said Melville, a little
impatiently, lie wished he had never spoken
the name of Yseulte de Valogne, the name
which seemed to belong to le temps quand la
Heine Berthe jilt. He had one of those instincts
of having spoken unwisely, one of those
presentiments of impending disaster, which
come to onely organised and much experienced
minds, and are called by blunter and slower
brains mere nervous nonsense.

When the other day the tall factory chimney
fell at Bradford, the birds which built in it
had flown away before the workmen  stupidly
eating their breakfasts till the bricks tumbled
about their ears  had looked up and seen any
danger.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE V.

As Otlimar leaned against the side of the yacht
and let his eyes dwell on her face, unseen by
him so honoris regard let something; of the
emotion which he felt escape him, and betrayed
that the chill indifference with which he had
met her again had been but the mere mask of
pride, though it might be a mask which he
would be strong enough always to wear in her
presence.

'Yonder is S. Pharamond,' he said, conscious
of his momentary loss of self-control, ashe
pointed to some round towers which rose
above woods of ilex trees and magnohas. ' If
you would allow them to land me there instead
of at Nice I should be grateful, and perhaps
you would honour me with landing too : the
house is somewhat neglected, as I have been
away so long ; but they will be at least able to
give you a cup of tea.'

With pleasure, if Wilkes likes it,' said the

Princess, as she joined her friend. ' I never
knew you had a place upon this coast ; surely
you never named it when  when I knew you
first?'

'Most likely not,' said Othmar, 'I have
been seldom there. It was a favourite house
of my father's in his rare moments of leisure,
but I have never cared for the air or for the
world of Nice. I have lent it sometimes to my
friends.'

What do you not lend to your friends ?
In that respect you have made yourself honey,
and the flies have eaten you without hesitation.'

If the honey be not in the hive it ought
to be eaten. There is a landing-place in my
grounds, and the house is not more than a
quarter of a mile distant, if such a distance do
not alarm you. I know that you are no great
pedestrian, Princess.'

Wliy should one be when there are so
many more agreeable modes of progression?
On ne doit jamais se punir jioiir rien.'

I have walked twenty miles for my own
pleasure very often,' said Lady Brancepeth, who
approached them.

'Oh, but you are English; we were just

K 2

saying that all English people are like beavers,
yoii must be sawing and drilling and building
and dragging something or other all through
the length of your days. I could walk, I
think I could walk right across Eussia, if
there were any wise object to be obtained by
it, but simply to walk, as a mad dog runs, from
a sort of blind impulsion !  no, that is beyond
me.'

You are such a curious union, Nadine, of
languor and energy, of indifference and of
potentialities,' began her friend.

My energy is latent,' lie said, interrupting
her. ' I do not waste it on every-day trifles,
as you waste yours. You always use forty-horse
povv'er to boll an egg or make a box
of wax matches. That is an English idea of
energy.'

Your grandmother, the Princess dYssin-
beaux, was English by birth.'

So was Othmar's mother. That is why
he and I have something of the beaver in us,
but calmed, controlled, kept in reserve ; we
do not waste our time and timber damming
up threads of water, but we shall be ready if
an inundation occur.'

 Othmar, perhaps,' said Lady Brancepeth.

I have a great deal more energy than he,'
said Nadine JSTapraxine, with a smile, as she
leaned back in the wicker lounging chair,
looking as indolent as a Turkish woman, and as
delicate and useless as a painted butterfly.

The schooner in twenty minutes' time
landed them at a creek, with a little marble
quay, shadowed by great pines and eucalyptus
trees ; there was a pavilion on the small
pier, a pretty kiosque all white and blue and
gold, with twisted pillars and Moorish arabesques.


Eemember, nothing here is of my taste or
choice,' said Othmar ; ' I have not been at the
place for ten years. Would you like to rest .
They can bring your tea to you ; or would
you come up to the house at once ? '

Va pour le chateau' said Nadine Na-praise;
'I never care for the preface of a
story.'

I fear you will find it a dull story,'
said he, as they left the quay and passed up
a steep path, always inter the shadow of the
trees.

'What a misfortune for him that he inherited

so much! It prevents him enjoying any
tiling,' lie said to Melville ; who replied, a
Little drily :

I do not think it is what he inherited
which prevents his enjoyment, Princess ; it is
more probably what he encountered and sighed
for vainly. Life holds many of these ironies.'

'If I were he,' she continued, ignoring the
reply, ' I should care for nothing but that power
which he, in common with other great capitalists,
possesses. To be able to make a war
possible or impossible by the mere inclining of
your wand of gold  that must be the most
interesting of all possible kinds of influence.'

Yes, the financier is the modern Merlin,
but then there is Vivian '

In Mr. Tennyson's poem, not out of it,'
said Princess Nadine, sceptically ; but she knew
very well that Vivian was then walking under
the shade of her own great red parasol, with its
group of humming-birds embroidered on its
left side.

The pathway ascended steeply through the
woods, bordered with datura and geranium,
which were still blossoming gaily ; here and
there was a wooden bench, a majolica seat, a

little statue ; the ground was of shining shingle ;
it had been kept in perfect order, awaiting its
owner, for ten years. After about a quarter of
a mile it ended on a level space of the red rock
up which it had combed. Here had been laid
out a fairy-like and fantastic garden, lawns,
palms, fountains, walls of shrubs, and groves
of camellias and azaleas, spreading before a
chateau, which was, in architecture, a miniature
Maintenon, and in position stood high enough
to look over the sea in front of it.

What a delicious place ! ' said Racine ;
and in a month or two, when all those
azaleas flower  if I had known }'ou had
owned such a bijou, I would have told you to
lend it to us. It makes La Jacquemerille a
mere trumpery toy.'

I would lend you nothing,' said Othmar,
in her ear ; ' I would have given you everything
 once.'

Then he added aloud, ' This is somewhat
trumpery also, I fear ; modern things are so
apt to have that look. They are like the
articles che Paris, which cost enormously, but
are only plush and ormolu after all. However,
Violet le Due built this house ; so it maybe

a little better that its neighbours. Only I
should like statelier and simpler gardens myself;
I should like high box hedges and old-fashioned
plants. But I suppose they would
not go with the Mediterranean.'

You like anything simple and homely ;
you will have to marry Margot, or Phoebe, or
Grethcl, off a farm,' said the Princess, with
some contempt. She was a hothouse flower
herself, and despised thyme and dog-roses.

I might do worse,' said Othmar, as he
ushered them into the house, which contained
some wonderful china, some admirable modern
pictures, some fine statuary, and more French
luxury than its master cared to have surround
him.

It is exquisite,' said the Princess, after
wandering through it, and returning to a room
opening on the gardens ; a room hung with
tawny plush, embroidered with white roses and
blue irises. The chairs and couches matched
the walls, a gilt cornice ran round the oval
ceiling, which was painted in tempera with the
story of Undine. ' How many more houses
have you, Othmar, standing like so many open
empty caskets waiting for you to put the jewel

of life into them ? Eeally, how rainy have
you ? Come, tell me ! '

I have too many,' said Othmar. ' But
excess always canes its own retribution ;
amongst them all I have no home ; none that
I feel home-like. I can imagine what it is 
a chez soi that one cares about and desires to
return to  but 1 do not possess it.'

Make it,' said Melville ; ' that is always in
the power of every man who is not a priest.'

I suppose it is,' said Othmar. ' But it
has never seemed very easy to me. The fire of
the hearth is Mke the coal from the altar : it
comes from heaven, and can scarcely be commanded.'


He glanced as he spoke at Nadine Napraxine,
who was lying back against the golden gleams
of the plush of her couch ; she had a tea-rose
in her hand which she had plucked from the
gardens. She looked dream-like and ethereal.
She had on her lips that little smile which
meant so much and yet said nothing, and was
half compassion and half disdain, and partially,
also, amusement. If she had been mistress
here and in all his other houses, he thought,
each one of them would have been Eden to

liii. But that lead not been Melville's mean -
ing.

At that moment his servants brought in the
tea noiselessly and quickly : little Saxe cups,
frosted cakes, forced strawberries, appearing
on great old plateaux of gold,  as though he
had been served there every day instead of
having been absent ten years.

Eeally, Othmar, you have a little of the
Haroun Alraschid, though you do not care for
your throne,' said Melville : ' who would have
imagined that returning from Asia last nio-ht
you would ]have tea all ready made for your
friends ? '

My friends reconcile me to my house,' said
Othmar ; ' you will leave almost a perfume of
home behind you, these rooms will seem lonely
no more.'

The rooms are quite perfect,' said Princess
Nadine, ' but still I think we will have our tea
out of doors ; the sun is still brilliant. We
have now and then little fits of rurality ; when
we have those we sit on a terrace and take tea ;
that is as near rusticity as we care to go.'

She walked through one of the doorways
into the air as she spoke.

To Othmar the golden-coloured room with
its white roses and blue irises seemed to grow
dark as she left it.

As she passed out to the gardens his people
brought him a note ; it was inside a silver-grey
envelope, with a silver couronne upon it, and
on a silver-grey card was written a very pressingly
worded invitation to dinner the following
night with his neighbours the Due and Duchesse
de Vannes. They had just heard of his arrival ;
they would have a few people ; they begged
him not to be formal, &c. &c. The chateau
nearest to him was Milloo, their favourite winter
retreat ; a gorgeous and fantastic place, with
many a gilded cupola and shining dome which
caught the sunshine from the sea, amidst groves
of magnolia and woods of ilex. He had not
been to Milloo for ten years. When he had
been last there the Due had been just married
to a famous beauty, and he had known them
very well in Paris ever since that time. They
were not people for whom he cared much :
Alain de Vannes was a sporting man, and his
wife was one of the leaders of fashion, with
half a hundred lovers given to her, rightly
or wrongly, by report. They were, however,

legitimist in politics to the backbone. Neither
of their familles had ever pandered to Emperor
or Elysee, and they were, despite their easy
morals and their profound indifference to each
other, exceedingly exclusive, and, with all their
nonchalance, even arrogant.

'It must be a strange house for that
poor little girl,' he thought as he threw the
card aside, and remembered the Greuze face in
the Venetian red boat. Milloo was not more
than a mile off him, at one point their woods
and his joined, and looking from his terrace
any day he could see the gilded minarets and
the varicoloured tiles of their villas shining in
the light against billows of dark evergreen
foliage.

How soon they know you are here ! ' said
Nadine Napraxine, as he spoke of the invitation
to her. ' You will go, of course ; you cannot
have any engagements . '

Will you be there ? '

I do not know ; yes, perhaps. I never
make up my mind until the last hour. People
say it is cruel when they have dinners ; it
leaves a place blank ; but how can you be sure
what you wish to do until the moment comes ?

I detest dinners. When we have really become
civilised we shall each of us eat in solitude, or,
at the least, each behind his own screen. Why
should one of the loveliest of the operations
of nature be performed in public? The
flowers, and the plate, and the footmen cannot
really embellish it ; indeed, they only make it
the more grotesque.'

How droll you are, Nadine ! ' said Lady
Brancepeth. ' You have certainly a monopoly
of singular ideas.'

'I wish my ideas were general,' answered
the Princess. 'When the world has really
refined itself it will look on our latins in
society as we look now on savages eating with
their fingers. Some of our friends cannot even
have a little love affair but they must go and
eat prawns, and quails, and petits fours together
in a cafe ; and if a hero comes home from
a war anywhere his countrymen at once make
him eat and drink in public by way of showing
their respect for him. The whole thing is
absurd. The only creature that is not offensive
when it eats is a bird. Just one little dive ina
rose, or under a vine-leaf, and it has breakfasted.
But we ! '

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

Wlien a very pretty woman eats a strawberry,
the bird is not very much her superior,'
murmured Melville.

Reverend father,' said the Princess, ' you
have no business to know whether one is pretty
or not. Fruit, perhaps, does keep something
of the golden age about it ; but our dinners ! 
were I a man 1 would never see the woman I
admired taking her share of diseased livers,
tortured fish, slaughtered songsters. They are
fond of writing nowadays about a higher
humanity which will succeed to ours ; but my
idea of it would be that it should be fed like
Fenton's islanders by only breathing sweet
odours. That would be even better than the
bird's dip in the rose.'

Then you will not go to Milloo ? ' persisted
Othmar.

Who knows what one may do in twenty-four
hours ? '

The servants had carried the gold trays
out into the garden after her. Melville and
Lady Brancepeth, dio were more comfortable
in the embrace of their plush couches, returned
within-doors ; Othmar drew his chair nearer to
hers, and offered her a cigarette.

Eiirality always wants this consolation,
Princess,' he said, as he did so.

Thanks ; not till I have finished my strawberries.
They are delicious. How do you
manage your households ? If we go home
unexpectedly anywhere we always find the
servants away, the major-domo drunk, the
house topsy-turvy, and not a thing to eat
within twenty miles. How did you keep them
at this point of perfection ? '

They are never sure that I may not
arrive at any moment. If servants be not
ready at any hour of the day or night they
are not worth their salt. Then I have very
faithful stewards '

One marvel does not explain another.
The fidelity is perhaps more astonishing than
the perpetual readiness.'

I reward fidelity ; most people limit themselves
to accepting it. If you do not pay your
servant well he will help himself.'

I am sure we pay  pay endlessly. Plato
spends Heaven knows what on the servants,
but he gets only a mob of rogues, who rob
him right and left.'

I have no rigHt to suppose the Prince less

wise than myself; but perhaps there is other
payment as well as money in which he does
not deal. I let the humblest man in my
service have plenty of hope ; there is no moral
tonic so bracing ; each of them knows that he
may rise if he only deserve it. Then, again,
I am heedful to have my house-stewards men
of high character ; a house-steward is one's
viceroy  one cannot be too careful in choosing
him.'

I should never have supposed you cared
about those things, Othmar,' she said, in much
surprise, as she stared at him, a strawberry
held uneaten against her lips.

One must think about them or be at war
with one's conscience,' he answered. ' That
is the tedium of life ; its duties are so inexorable
and so wearisome.'

Is an easy conscience absolutely necessary
to you ? '

No ; I could easily imagine circumstances
under which a guilty one would make me
carry it lightly.'

A gleam of the old passionate emotion
which she had once known in him passed for a
moment into his eyes with gloom and fire

mingled. He repressed it ; he did not wish
her to believe that she had still the power over
his life which she actually possessed. He heard
her voice saying always, ' I will have no melodramatic
passions to disturb me; they are
absurd, they are out of date, they are tiresome.'

And she had said it out of no virtue, only
out of sheer shallowness and indifference.

That is a very shocking sentiment,' she
said demurely now, as she ate another strawberry.
' At least, one is bound to say so ;
Monsignore in there Avould certainly say so.
Indeed, from Monsignore's point of view, one
would certainly think it so ; but as all we
modern people, whatever church we ostensibly
belong to, are all so completely of one mind
that we know we are only automata, made up
of nerve-centres and different gases, I do not
see why we should necessarily have consciences
at all, do you ? Why should wee have one anymore
than the coster from which I named
that yacht ? '

Only because the fostered have no traditions
of a conscience, all men have.'

All men ? Savages have not, primitive
races have not ; and how should we know

VOL. I. L

whether the coster has or has not ? She may
have a very perfect system of ethics, sitting on
her rocks in reach of the tide  I should think,
indeed, she had a sort of Buddhism.'

You named that yacht ? ' he said abruptly.

Yes ; Geraldine had her built last year.
He is not like you ; he has not a superstition
that one is bound to go on sailing in the same
ship all one's life, however old-fashioned she
may grow.'

Lord Geraldine has many superiorities over
me. He has the patience to play at Platonic
cicisbeism as children play for counters,' said
Othmar, with a brusque contempt.

That is neither a well-bred speech nor a
true one,' said Nadine Napraxine very calmly,
as she set down her cup.

Its breeding I cannot defend, its truth I
do,' he answered coldly. ' There are men who
can spend their lives carrying a woman's fan,
and ask for nothing more at her hands ; they
have merits, no doubt, but they are not those
which I appreciate.'

Poor Ealph ! if he heard you ! ' she said,
with a little yawn which she could not control,
though she tried to stifle it with a cigarette.

He thinks himself far more manly than you
because he shoots fur and feather, and you do
not kill anything  except a man nov and
then ! '

I may yet add to the hist of the latter,'
said Othmar.

The Mongolians have made you very
savage,' she said, as she lighted the cigarette.
And you used to be so gentle

I used to be many things that I have
ceased to be since the twentieth of April a year
and eight months ago,' said Othmar.

She had forgotten the date which he remembered
so accurately, the date of the day
on which they had parted in her own room in
Paris, with the smell of the lilac of the avenue
coming in through the open windows, and the
sunset rays, as they came through the rose-coloured
blinds, touching her fair face, and the
curl of her long dark lassies, and the beautiful
mouth with the little cruel languid smile on it
as she had said, ' I will have no melodramatic
passions to disturb me.'

She looked at him now with the demure
un-unconsciousness of a child.

Ah ! I never could remember dates she

l2

murmured. ' I was the despair of all my
governesses, I had such a bad memory.'

It is convenient sometimes,' said Othmar,
a little bitterly. Why were all those past hours
written on his remembrance as the chisel writes
on stone, vdiilst she had shaken off their
memories as a bird shakes a summer rain off
its wings ?

And how,' he added with an effort, ' with
such a defective brain as you describe, have
you become one of the most cultured women
of Europe? Does forgetfulness of  dates 
enhance the power of acquiring other knowledge
P '

I think it leaves the brain freer,' she
answered, in that serene way which she had
with her when she was intending that a man
should never forget her whatever she might
choose to forget.

No doubt,' he said impatiently. ' No
doubt learned women have never been very
tender ones.'

Learned ! what a terrific word. Would
you call a mere poor frivolous montaigne like
me by the same word that described Lady Jane
Grey and Mrs. Somerville ? I know a few

languages ; I had lionnes of every nation when
I was a baby ; and I have read Schopenhauer
and Herbert Spencer, and I assure you that one
bored me as much as the other. But learned !
would a has bleu eat your strawberries or smoke
your cigarettes ? '

Or take all my heart and my soul out of
me ? ' he thought, as he answered, ' Xo ; certainly
your one great science, Madame, was
never learned either in the nursery, or out of
Schopenhauer and Herbert Spencer. It is the
perfection of high art ; and you, like all supreme
artists, cannot pause to remember what your
studies may cost to your subjects.'

She did not ask him what art or science
he meant ; she lighted a second cigarette and
said, in her sweetest voice, ' I do not think you
are quite so even-tempered as join used to be,
Count Othmar. Look, the sun is low ; it is time
to be going homeward. What are Monsignore
and Evelyn doing? Will you call them,
please ? '

Stay yet a little while ; I have not seen
you for so long,' he murmured, ashamed and
irritated at his owen weakness in letting the
words escape him.

'Naturally you have not,' she said, with a
gay laugh, ' since you have been in Asia and I
in Europe. Why did you go to Asia ? People
do not do that sort of thing nowadays. If they
be annoyed they walk down to their club and
play hard, or they ride a horse at a steeplechase,
and in a week they think no more about
it. And why did you have that duel with de
Seneca ? It was very imprudent. I had told
you I could not bear that kind of melodrama.
Nobody knew certainly, but that was only
because they were all stupid ; any one might
have known. And Seneca never left his
bed for six months ; and have you heard that
he will limp, they say, for ever ? '

Othmar, with a gesture, intimated that the
misfortune of his late adversary was a matter
of utter indifference.

If you be sorry that he limps,' he said
impatiently, ' be sorry that you gave him your
bouquet to carry. Princess, you are very fond
of psychological studies, but you do not like
to be reminded of what others pay for them.
You know well enough what men suffer for
you, and through you, but you do not choose
ever to blame yourself for making them do so.

The world has not changed ; the mode of expression
may have altered, but men feel as
they felt in the days of David or of aeschylus.
Love is what it was then, a mere passing
pleasure or pain to many, but to some the
herald of heaven or of hell, the begetter of
heroism or of crime.'

My dear Othmar, pray excuse me,' said
Nadine Napraxine, ' you talk beautifully, you
always did, but I cannot stay to hear you when
the sun is just going down, and we have only
a yacht that crawls to take us home to dinner.
It is my fault that it crawls : he would have
had a steam one if I had not prevented him. I
detest smoke and machinery, but still certainly
without them one crawls. Monsignore, will you
come if you have finished talking about the
Little Sisters of the Poor ? '

Othmar's face grew cold, a sombre displeasure
darkened his eyes, he drew back and
let Melville join Madame Napraxine. He himself
walked beside her friend down the path
through the woods talking, but not sensible of
what he said, watching the red sunshade with
its embroidered running-birds pass before
him under the boughs.

As they nearer the quay he took from the
hands of one of his men two bouquets of
gardenias and orchids, and offered them to
the two ladies ; they were in pretty cornucopia
of silvered wicker-work. Any one would
have thought that there had been the preparation
of a week for this afternoon visit.

You are hon prince,' said Madame Na-praise
as she took her orchids, ' why will
you pretend to be a barbarian ? The little
graceful amenities of the world become you,
and you do them so well, though you do them
so seldom ; why will you make yourself un
horn me de foyer  manque? It is much nicer,'
she added in a low murmur, ' to give me a
bouquet than to shoot another man for carrying
one.'

He did not answer. Her jests jarred on
him.

When they reached the quay the sun was
setting, the boat was waiting, the sailors immovable,
their oars held straight in the air.

Adieu, Othmar ! ' said the Princess Nadine
gaily. ' Your chateau is marvellous, your orchids
are exquisite, and your tea was enchanting
; we will leave you all alone in your poetic

solitude, and wlieii you want prose and society
you will come to La Jacquemerille.'

Will you not honour me again ? ' he said,
angry at his own weakness. ' Would you not
dine with me tomorrow night ? Or the day after
tomorrow ? I think the Prince would come.'

Oh ! Plato would come certainly,' said
Nadine Napraxine, with a smile ; ' you are his
especial friend. He shall come to you alone ;
then you can talk to him as much as you like
about the burning of Moscow and  and  all
those other dates for which you have so
admirable a memory ! '

She would say no more than that, and
her musical slight laugh tantalised his ear as
the boat was pushed off in the deep blue water,
and the seamen bent above their oars.

Otho Othmar leaned against the marble
balustrade and watched them row away towards
the schooner, with an anger in which
vain regrets and baffled desires were mingled
disconsolately. He remained there till the sun
was gone down, and the white canvas of the
yacht had passed out of sight round a bend of
the shore.

When he retraced his steps to his solitary

house, he saw a tea-rose lying beside the gilded
garden chair which she had occupied as she ate
her strawberries. It was the one which she
had gathered and dropped. He picked it up
and put it in his coat.

Quench on aime on n'a que vingt airs,' he
thought with scorn for himself.

He entered the golden drawing-room, wrote
a formal note of invitation to the Prince and
Princess Napraxine, and said to one of his
servants, ' Send a messenger over with this
letter the first thing in the morning to the villa
that is called La Jacquemerille.' Yet he had
come from Asia with the firm resolve to show
the Princess Napraxine that he had conquered
all passion for her ; and he was not on the
whole a weak man.

CHAPTEE VI.

He dined alone ; a few telegrams would have
filled his rooms, but he did not care for society,
which he thought only came to him because
he was one of the few owners of milliards in
Europe. He sat alone after dinner in the
salon which she had admired, with the light
of half a hundred wax candles bringing out
the golden gleams in the plush, the colours
of the embroidered irises, the dead gold of the
cornice and panels, while a fire of olive wood
glowed under the carvings of the mantelpiece
of porphyry. The plush curtains, with the lace
beneath them, veiled the shuttered windows ;
outside the night was calm, there was no sound
anywhere. The words of Melville came back to
him as he sat there in the midst of the luxury
and of the loneliness : ' To make a home is in
the power of any man who is not a priest.'

It did not seem to him to lie in his.
He could have bought a principality, but he

could not buy a home. Love alone could
create that, and the only woman he had loved
for years was Nadine Napraxine.

If she had been what he wished to inn,
would she have made him this ideal home 
she, capricious, indifferent, disdainful, contained
as she had said, in every habit, thought, and
attitude of her life ? Perhaps not ; probably
not, he knew ; yet she alone would have had
power to make a melody out of the discords
of his desires and his discontent ; she alone
seemed to him to fill the vacant places, to
smile across the solitary room, to have left the
lingering perfume of her presence there, as the
orange flowers left their fragrance in the cabinet
in which they were laid for a moment.

Otho Othmar was one of the richest menin
Europe ; he was often disposed to regret it,
as many persons regret that to which they have
been born. He did not think it a thing to be
vain of; he was even occasionally ashamed of
it. It seemed to him that when you were so
much richer than most of your fellows you
were required to be very much better than
they ; and it is not always agreeable, nor often
easy, to be so. When he signed ' Othmar ' it

was as when an emperor signs his name, and
with a stroke of the pen he could give away
millions with as much ease as lesser mortals
can scatter pence. This facility was no pleasure
to him. Though he was well aware that riches
are the one ruling power of the modern world,
and comprise in themselves the wishing cap and
the magician's wand, Excalibur and Holy Grail,
he did not greatly prize his possession of them ;
perhaps because they had been always before
him and about him in profusion from his birth.
The Othmar fortune had been steadily
growing for a century and a half. At the
commencement Marc Othmar, a Croat, native
of A gram, had been a poor man enough  a
horse dealer, some said a horse stealer  what
precisely never was known. Agram is not a
very greatly frequented place, and records get
easily mildewed and dim in it. Whether he
began life as pedlar, or peasant, or, as some
affirmed, as a robber of wild colts, Marc Othmar
at forty years old was a money-lender, commission
agent, and banker, and at sixty had
become a millionaire, known of far beyond
Croatia, and had laid the foundations of one of
the great financial houses of Eastern Europe.

His son quadrupled this possessions and
extended his operations Westward and northward.
His grandson fell upon the hard times
of the Napoleonic wars as on a bed of roses ;
and from the misfortunes of Austria and Prussia,
and the necessities of Pitt's England, made
gold as rapidly as though he had had the
philosopher's stone in a crucible. He grew
into a very colossus of riches, and his houses
did their business in Vienna, Paris, London,
and Frankfort. He married the daughter of
a French duke, and made his central house
of business in Paris.

His eldest son Stefan, who inherited all
his astuteness, succeeded him in due course in
the direction of affairs, ably seconded by his
brother Friedrich, and in his turn married the
daughter of an English nobleman, by whom he
had one son, Otho, who was chiefly educated
in England, and who had little or nothing of
the Othmar type in feature or in character.

He was a boy of infinite promise, and of
no ordinary mind, but, despite his personal and
intellectual gifts, he was a bitter disappointment
to his father ; and the indifference, which
at times deepened into contempt, with which

the lad reviewed the origin and the employment
of the fortunes of his house seemed
to him nothing short of blasphemy. Stefan
Othmar himself was a man of excessive arrogance,
but it was a bourgeois arrogance, proud
of its own sources and dominion, and capable
of infinite self-abasement in the pursuit of self-interest.
That his boy should revolt against
his descent and despise the future before him
was a fact so hideous and so amazing in his
sight that, had he not known his dead wife to
have been the purest and coldest of women,
he would almost have doubted that his own
blood ran in the veins of his degenerate heir.

As Otho grew towards manhood the distance
between them widened more and more. That a
fastidious fine gentleman, a fantastic and futile
dreamer, a mere visionary and dilettante, should
be the outcome of a hundred and fifty years
of financial success and ambition seemed to
Count Stefan so frightful a mockery of fortune,
that he cursed his own folly in having wedded
a patrician, instead of some woman of a common
but ambitious stock who would have given him
successors content, and solely content, with
the superb position of princes of finance, and

capable of doubling and quarrelling those
many millions which were his own ecstasy. The
very virtues of his son alarmed him as hardly
any vices would have done. The youth was
so delicate of mind and taste, so devout and
chaste of habit, so meditative and so solitary
by choice, that his father grew alarmed lest he
should actually do what he at times threatened,
and consecrate himself to the Catholic priesthood.
He took a violent remedy.

He went to one of the most seductive and
most venal women of the day, and said to her,
Win this boy from his dreams or he will
become a monk.'

She undertook the mission, and succeeded
in it. She destroyed all that was spiritual and
innocent in him with the merciless witchery of
the courtesan, which is like the tide of burning
lava: no grass will spring where the scoria
has spread. He awoke in her arms without a
faith. He never again dreamed of the religious
life. She earned well the estate in Franche-comte
and the large sum in rouleaux which his
father settled on her ; but nothing in after-life
could ever give him back those heavenward
aspirations, that purity of soul, which she had

swept away as with a wave of fire. Like the
young Eeichstadt before him, he had wasted
all the splendour and innocence of a first
passion on a wanton who had betrayed him
for gold. The first passion of a boy colours all
his future ; the bitter-sweet flavour of this
remained with him through all his later years.
Love without it was tasteless ; love with it was
worthless. He said once to his father : ' You
had better have killed me than have given me
to Sara Vernon.'

Who passes by the gates of disillusion has
died twice.' His father had pushed him with a
hard hand through those gates, believing that
they led to the path of self-knowledge and of
empire over men. Stefan Othmar had not
wanted a poet, a scholar, a philanthropist, or a
priest for his successor ; he had wanted a coldhearted,
clear-headed, unscrupulous, unyielding
financier to hold, and even to increase,
the mighty powers and possessions of which
the name of Othmar was a symbol to the
world.

But the crime he had committed did not
obtain for him what he desired. The merciless
cynicism with which he had destroyed the faith

VOL. I. M

and the purity of his son did not ensure its
object. The youth remained as aloof in mind
from the traditions of his house, and as disdainful
in spirit of them, as he had been before.
He consented, indeed, with apathy, to put his
signature to the deeds which made him one of
the chiefs of the house, but that was all which
Stefan Othmar gained by his son's immeasurable
loss. Some four years later, when Otho was
two-ands twenty years of age, Stefan Othmar
died suddenly on the steps of his great hotel
in the Boulevard St, Germain, as he was ascending
them after an audience at the Tuileries, in
which he had been the master of the situation,
and Napoleon Trois the suppliant. He died
of ruminant apoplexy without an instant's
warning ; but his affairs were left in the most
perfect order. His brother Fritz remained,
who had been his alter ego all his life, and
nothing was altered in the House of Othmar,
of which his son became supreme master.

The young man received the news far away
in the forest recesses of Lahore, at the court of
an Indian prince, where he was being feasted
with royal honours in the course of his travels
over the world. There had been no sympathy

between this father and himself ; their temperaments
had been as opposite as the poles ; little
sentiment of personal affection mingled with his
sudden consciousness that he was absolute
lord of his own destinies. His first impulse
was to use the power into which he had entered
to destroy, at a blow,, all that his forefathers
had been a century and a half in building up
for him. ' It is a mass of corruption ; it shall
perish,' he said to himself, with the ruthless
integrity, the unsparing fanaticism, of a generous
and high-souled youth. But when he returned
to England and came face to face with all his
responsibilities and powers, he found that which
he had thought so easy was quite impossible to
accomplish as he desired to accomplish it. His
first impulse was to throw the whole into
liquidation and efface the House of Othman*
from financial existence for ever, iii to do so
was but a dream ; the financial world would
not have released him from his obligations ;
his only living relative, his father's brother and
partner, Baron Friederich Othmar, stoutly refused
to suffer that to be done which would, in
his sight, have been a greater crime than many
murders.

H 2

Against his desires aud against his conscience,
lie had, on reaching his majority, been
half persuaded, half coerced, by his father to
associate himself in legal form with the house.
The act had been one of filial sacrifice, and it
hunch like a wallet of stones about his neck.
He found that his power had its limits ; that he
could no more disengage himself from all the
operations and engagements of his firm than a
young king can emancipate himself from the
trammels of court and constitution. He had
a right to ruin himself, but he had no right to
ruin all those whose fortunes were interwoven
with the enterprises of his predecessors. Irritated
and disappointed he resigned himself to
the inevitable, and remained the ' master of
milliards,' with as much regret as the young-francis
Joseph accepted the diadem of Austria.
The cloth of gold in which they, his forefathers,
had wrapped him remained upon him,
and sometimes he thought it a very shirt of
Nessus.

Sometimes he was almost tempted to take
the vow of poverty for the sake of getting rid
of it, but he was restrained by two recollections
one that he had no spiritual faith, the other

that mankind in general would have voted him
insane. A profound melancholy, without any-definite
or special cause, grew upon him ; he
felt the sense of an immense responsibility,
which he saw no manner of using with proportionate
usefulness. The sophism that duties
unsought may be disregarded did not satisfy
his conscience, whilst his knowledge of the
world told Jim that to do harm is as easy as to
kiss your hand, whilst to effect any great good
is as hard as to move the mountains from their
bases. Public charity only fills the pockets of
greedy speculators ; private charity too often
raises up a festering mass of imposture. The
rich man goes through the world as a sheep
through briars in spring time. If he be a
perfect egotist, he is happy enough ; if he have
thought and feeling, he is depressed by the universal
greed around him, and by the absolute
impotence of all religions to bridle it.

Otho Othmar remained always sensible of
a bitter irritation and degradation whenever
he recalled the sources of the wealth he enjoyed
: the ruin of prosperous countries, the
wholesale slaughter of wars, the distress or
disgrace of ancient nobilities, the impoverishment

of nations. True, there was another
side to the throne of Pkitus, on which his
fathers had seated themselves ; by their means,
no doubt, enterprises had been carried out
for which humanity, on the whole, was materially,
if not spiritually, the better. Canals,
deserts, mines, cities, colonies, ocean ways, had
felt the vivifying powers of the great Othmar
loans ; but the evil appeared to him. far to outbalance
the good, and all the wealth seemed to
him tainted. He had considerable pride, in a
shape with which men would not have sympathised.
He fancied that the inherited nobility
of his French and English blood was always at
war with the blood of the Croat bankers by
whom he had been begotten. Though his position
was one which almost all the world envied,
it was one Which galled himself. Titles had
been offered him, but he lead contemptuously
rejected them. He was Othmar; the name
spoke to all the ears of Europe ; he did not
consider that the story it tckl could be either
changed or buried by smothering it underneath
the blaze of some princess or dukedom. He
did not even call himself, as others called him,
Count Othmar, and he put neither coronet or

escutcheon on his carriages, his plate, or his
writing-paper. He wits far too proud to be
proud in that way.

Illustrious alliances had been proposed to
him, but he had rejected all ; the world expected
him to marry greatly, but he remained
the hope and the despair of all the European
nobilities, who would have willingly accorded
him any one of their fair virgins. Their eagerness
had early given him a cynical disdain for
the aristocracies to which his tastes attracted
him ; he had no less a disdain for the financial
order to which tradition allied him. On the
whole, although he had never had any especial
sorrow, he was scarcely a happy man, though
the whole world was ready to gratify and
amuse him. He had been always able to indulge
his fancies to the uttermost, but all the
venal beauty which affected adoration for him
left his heart cold.

Though gentle in manner and chary of
speech, he could on provocation say caustic
truths which cut like surgeons' knives. In
general, however, he was indulgent to follies
which he did not share. He lived always a
little apart from the world, in which he was so

conspicuous a figure, and he judged it with
good nature rather than with sympathy.

Occasionally, as Nadine Napraxine had said,
il voyait en jaune ; the bitterness of spirit which
comes over all who see themselves sought for
what they possess passed over him also, but its
pessimism never lasted long. That human
nature was trivial but not evil was, on the
whole, the result of his experiences.

By one of the odd caprices in which destiny
delights, a lettered ease would have been the
utmost he would have cared to command.
The incessant demands which a great fortune
always brings upon its possessor were to him irksome
; wherever he went mankind pursued him
hat in hand and hand outstretched. He could
arrive nowhere without petitions and invitations
raining in on him ; obscurity was not to be
enjoyed even in Mongolia, where the Foreign
Ministers at the Chinese Court and the Celestial
Emperor himself sent mounted messengers
after him to see that he came to no harm.
The interest everywhere excited by his arrival
or by his actions irritated him perpetually; the
impossibility of securing privacy, to him formed
the gravest of annoyances. His intolerance of

publicity made him almost detest the whole
human race which combined to refuse it to
him. To be compelled to live in a glass-house
appeared to him to destroy the very first requisite
for life's enjoyment. He concealed this
sensitiveness under a chilliness of manner which
did injustice to the real warmth of his sympathies.
There was much that was at once
attractive and irritating to women in this
young man whose fortunes were so immense
and power so extended, who yet passed through
the world with so unaffected an indifference to
his own advantages in it, and who had the
melancholy and romantic features of a Euy
Bias or of a Ella. With men, his perfect
simplicity of expression, his unpretentious
courage, and his unfailing generosity, commanded
respect, whilst his position excited
their envy; but while he compelled their esteem,
he did not, as a rule, possess their attachment.
' If we are in a position to serve men
greatly, we shall never be greatly loved by
them,' said Melville to him once ; ' we shall
make too many ingrates, even though we do
our best not to make one. Men, as a rule,
love most what they can afford a little to

despise and have no cause whatever to envy.
Do 3'ou remember when the anarchists of '48
came to old Rothschild at Ferries and demanded
his fortune for the people of France,
and he very quietly took up his pen and made
aloud his calculation that his fortune divided
thus would give everyone just four francs and
a half each ? Well, the fault of the very rich
man to the world is always Rothschild's to the
anarchists ; everyone expects he can bestow
on each of them ten millions, whilst he can
only really give four francs and a half. The
calculation may be as clear as day, but the fact
is one never forgiven.'

Othmar understood that very well with his
reason, but he was not reconciled to it in his
heart ; he would have desired something different.
The immense hotel which this father lead
l3uilt, with its ceilings painted by Ingres and
Delaroche, its gardens sloping to the Seine, its
genuine treasures of art, its double staircase, its
cour cVhonnPAu\ its stables built on the model
of Chantilly, was no better than a barn to him ;
he detested it with a sort of petulance ; he
never willingly resided in it. Its network of
communication with the banks and the bureaux,

laid with all the facilities which modern
science could invent, had no interest for him.
He did not feel the slightest emotion about
any public event that could possibly happen,
whether wars and rumours of wars, or the
betting of a racecourse. He had none of
those tastes which may make a rich man
popular for a season and ruined in a twelvemonth.
To his mistresses he was invariably
generous, but these extravagances scarcely
made more impression on his vast fortune thana
few pails full taken from the sea make diminution
in its volume. His greatest pleasure, on
which he spent his money most largely, was
music. Wherever he was he gathered great
singers and musicians around him. She had
likened him to Ludwig of Bavaria. His caprices
were not quite so eccentric, but his preference
was almost as ungrudgingly indulged.
He had studied music theoretically and profoundly,
though he had never touched any instrument
and had never written a bar. It was
one of those tastes which to his father had
appeared an absolute insanity. He also spent
much upon his libraries and his horses, as
the Princess Napraxiue had said to him. But

since he was not a bibliophile, and did not
care for rare editions, and never raced or made
wagers, this expenditure even here was moderate
as compared with his powers. From the time
of his early and bitter passion for Sara Vernon
he had avoided those famous sorceresses who
can beggar Croesus and disown Caesar ; they
recalled too vividly to him the intense suffering
of his boyhood, when he had found himself
betrayed by what he adored. To the few
women whom he had ever noticed he had been
invariably generous even to excess, with a
generosity that strove to make amends for the
scorn he had for them ; but he had had none
of those long-enduring liaisons which cling like
the octopus and drain like the vampire. The
knowledge that so many women would have
drunk the dregs of infamy at his word for the
sake of his gold, held him aloof from them ;
he was conscious that they pursued him as the
sword-fish pursues the fish entangled in a seine.
There was no Venusburg which would not have
let him enter into its enchantment with his
golden key; and this untempted Tannhiluser
turned away indifferent. All the rest which
attracted other men  gambling, feasting, drinking,

racing, living together in feverish crowds,
appeared to him ridiculous and tiresome.
All the popular vices of men of his rank
seemed to him dull and vult-ar, trivial and
stupid ; the life of the micscadin, of the mashed*,
seemed to him, on the whole, more stupid than
the Tartar's. There was a certain similarity
between him and Nadine Napraxine. The
world appeared to them both very narrow and
its resources few.

For her the result of this impression took
the shape of disdain ; in him of regret.

In her it was a thirst of the mind, in him
it was a hunger of the heart, which led them
to think that the land around them was barren.

His friends called him jestingly as Chateaubriand
was called, ' le grand ennuye' but it
was precisely his vague discontent with the
puerilities and the vulgarities of existence which
made his affinity to Nadine Napraxine. She
had much the same contempt for all those who
surrounded her and who made so much of all
their little ambitions, who crowned themselves
with straw and thought they reigned, dio set
their souls on a winning horse, a political
measure, a policy, a project, or a coup d'etat

whilst the horse was to her taste as much worth
wasting thought on as the statesmanship.

If he had heard of his own total ruin he
would have put a Horace in his pocket and
walked out of the great bronze Renaissance
gates of his palace with a serenity which would
have had in it nothing either strained or affected.
He was no ascetic or philosopher,
but his great fortunes bored him, and their
origin annoyed him. His temperament would
probably have led to higher ambitions if he
had not been born to so much possession that
ambition had no scope. He was wont to cite as
the wisest man the world had known the gay
physician of the Fronde epoch, Gui Patin, who
sat throughout that troublous time, peaceful
and amused, beneath his own cherry-trees. But
fate had seated him, himself, beneath the gold
pagoda-tree, and the tree seemed to him a
sterile one ; it had neither fragrance nor shade,
yet a million eager hands were always trying
to pluck from it, and for him who sat under
it there was no quiet. Some one was
always wanting him to shake down the fruit
into their hands.

He had had one great misfortune ; he had

known satiety almost before lie had known
enjoyment ; and men were sobentnpon making
use of him that they did not take time to
attach him to them before they disgusted him.
The world in general did not like him much ;
it followed him endlessly, but it thought his
reserve arrogance, his simplicity of taste affectation,
and his dislike to display avarice. It
did not comprehend in the least the simple
truth that Othmar would have shaken his gold
off him if he could have done so like so much
mud. In the Croat character there are both
romance and religion ; he had more of the
Croat than the English temper in him; but,
like most men of his time, he had no belief at
all, though it was a sorrow to him, not a boast ;
and the romance of his impulses had been early
chilled and silenced by the venal passions
offered to his boyhood for sake of his wealth. He
learned too early that there is scarcely anything
which may not be bought. It is a knowledge
which hardens the selfish, but saddens the generous,
nature. The irresistible conviction that
money is after all the one great power of the
world is not an exhilarating or a consoling fact
for thoughtful or visionary minds.

He knew very well that he might have
been the most vicious brute, the most brutal
tyrant, the most merciless of men, and mankind
would have served, followed, and flattered him
none the less ; he could have purchased immunity
for most crimes, condonation for most
iniquities. So long as he had remained master
of his fortune and of his possessions, he knew
that men would have sought him none the less
eagerly though he had had the vices of a
Heliogabalus ; and that women would have
given themselves to him none the less willingly
though he had been as hideous as the Veiled
Prophet. It did not make him cynical ; but it
made him indifferent, and it moved him at
times to a vague sadness. It seemed scarcely
worth while for his forefathers to have raised
that mountain of gold, only that from its summit
he might see the nakedness of the world of
men.

CHAPTER VII.

At eight o'clock on the following night Othmar
walked across his gardens, under a starlit sky,
towards the adjacent grounds of Milloo. A few
roods of plantation parted his from theirs ; in
the boundary fence there was a small gate, of
which his major-domo had reminded him that a
key existed. The night was young, but the stars
already were many, and a slender moon had
risen in the deep serene blue of the heavens.
Though it was midwinter the air was sweet
with the smell of orange orchards in flower
and of the aromatic pine-woods of his own
enclosures.

'Will she be there?' he thought a hundred
times.

He had kept away from her all the clay, had
busied himself with his sailors, with his steward,
with the condition of the place ; but he longed
to see that smile which even in its malice was
sweeter to him than all the kindness of others,

VOL. I, ]

to hear again that voice which was music to
his ear, even in its chill, indifferent mockeries.

He had an intuitive belief, which had been
shaken but not destroyed by his own failure,
that in her nature there were depths to be
reached, passions to be awakened, though a
bland and cruel indifference at present veiled
them. He had been ruthlessly betrayed by
her coquetry, profoundly wounded by her coldness,
but he believed in her still  even still
believed in himself as the man whom ultimately
she would love. He had returned to
Europe with the resolution never to be in her
presence except when the hazards of society
should bring them perforce in the same atmosphere,
but at the first charm of her regard
he had forgotten all his resolves, lost all his
wisdom. Life only seemed worth living if he
could hear that one voice, so sweet in its
modulations, so chilly in its perfect harmony.
It was, perhaps, because he was one of the few
men who could gratify all wishes, caprices, and
ambitions as fast as such arose, that this one
thing wholly denied to him, wholly inaccessible,
had such force of attraction for him. Yet
he was bitterly angered against himself for his

own submission. She was but a supreme
coquette, a Novnn petrie du monde, despite all
her charm ; but she could make her careless
little nod, or a half-ironical smile, more prized
from her than the utmost tenderness of other
women ever was. There was about her that
air as of one so wholly indifferent to all the
vulgarities which others esteem triumphs that,
when she ever deigned to notice that a man
existed, he was more flattered than by the
fondest concessions of his most ardent adorers.
She had been assailed by all the powers and
vanities of passion, but she had always given
it at most that cool little smile  sometimes the
smile had been compassionate, more often it
had been cruel. Women had succumbed to
him as full-blown roses fall before the touch of
a careless hand; for this reason the chillness
of Nadine Napraxine, which seemed chastity,
had had so strong an attraction for him that for
awhile it had seemed to him sweeter to wait
upon its caprices than to obtain fuller response
from them. But no man tarries long at this
stage of his affections, and the time had come
when he had grown impatient of a pursuit
without end, of an allegiance without recoil

2

pense. It was like an empty cup of exquisite
form and transparent beauty, for ever without
wine in it ; to the connoisseur the gem is perfect
thus, but to those athirst it brings little
delight.

The unsheltered windows of Milloo were
glistening with light, which shone through the
thickets of rose-laurel and bay as he approached
the house, and a flood of light was poured
out shining on the stone perron, carpeted and
screened closely by rose-coloured awnings from
the air of night. After a year and a half spent
on tropic seas and in desert lands, the return to
society has always a half-sweet, half-bitter,
flavour. Was it worth while, he thought, to
leave all the routine and tedium and emptiness
of the world only to drift back again into its
formalities and follies ?

He had, however, no choice left in the matter,
for the servants in the antechamber were
bowing low to him and taking his furred coat
from him, and in another moment the Duchesse
d(3 Vannes was welcoming him with all the
genuine pleasure which a hostess feels in having
the first visit from a person long absent, and
hifh enough in the world's favour to make his

return to the world an event of social interest
and of public importance.

Aurore de Vannes, called Cri-Cri by her
friends, was a very pretty woman, as much
and as delicately painted as the fan she carried ;
she wore a marvellous costume of cream-coloured
velvet blent with japonica-coloured
satin, and had japonica in her hair and at her
bosom ; she wore also some very fine rubies.

When he entered the drawing-rooms of
Milloo there were a dozen persons assembled
there, most of whom he knew, but amongst
them was not the Princess IvTapraxine. There
was lamentation for her absence, but no surprise
at it, because her caprices were so well
known.

As he entered a little note had entered
behind him ; when Mme. de Vannes had said
all her pretty greetings to him she glanced at it.

" Resolve  migraine  temps detestable," '
she murmured, as she ran her eyes over it.
Of course ! ' she said, aloud, ' that is always
Nadine's way  she does it on purpose. She
loves to disappoint people. She was out riding
this afternoon ; I saw her in the distance with
Boris Seliedoff. She treated the Empress in

that fashion last winter at Petersburg' and
when the Dames du Palais told her that the
Tearing was so displeased that she woidd exclude
her from Court, Racine said to them
quite simply : '' Trop de bone ! Je m'habitue
si mal a ces corners-la." '

And has she been excluded ? ' asked one
of the guests.

Ouf ! ' cried the Duchesse de Vannes, ' I
see you do not know her. Xo empress in the
world would dare to exclude her. Imagine
how she would avenge herself ! Courts cannot
afford to be brave nowadays.'

Othmar heard every syllable she said as he
conversed with De Vannes, a tall man of some
eight-and-thirty years old, with a look of extreme
distinction and of as supreme fatigue.
Who is Boris SeliedofF? ' he thought, With the
restless jealousy of an unsatisfied passion. He
regretted his tent in Tartary : the elegant rooms,
the perfumed air, the pretty women, the low
buzz of conversation, the little breaks of
laughter, the artificially, the monotony of the
whole thing, wearied him akeady.

The dinner was gay and even brilliant ; to
him alone it seemed tedious. Why had she not

come? lie thought, and that disappointment
alone occupied him. He was angered that she
should have so much power to make la jylaie
et le beau temps of his time and of his moods.

Is Othmar cured by Central Asia ? ' said
one of the guests to the Duchesse de Yannes
who looked across the table at him, and
answered, ' I should say not. He would hardly
be within \q leagues of La Jacquemerille if
he were so. Besides, JSTadine has a power of
making herself remembered which I have seen
in no one else. It is because she remembers
nothing herself. The law of contrasts is the
law of affinity.'

Madame Napraxine is the only woman in
whom virtue does not look ridiculous,' said an
old gentleman to his neighbour, overhearing
her name. - But then, true, this is because it
is not virtue at all, but something much more
disdainful and unapproachable. Have you
seen a peacock ravage a flower-garden?. He
does not care for any one of the flowers, but
all the same the carnations and roses and
geraniums fall in showers as he goes, strewing
them right and left, and drawing his plumes
carelessly over the waste he has made behind

him. Her lovers are no more to Madame
Napraxine than the flowers to the peacock ; but
the result is the same.'

Is that a quality you would rank very
highly? ' asked the person next him.

That depends on your standard,' he
answered. ' It is a power which is to her just
what plumage is to the peacock  something
quite beyond imitation, and royal in its disdainful
beauty. I did not think men were ever
hopelessly in love in this century, but with her
I perceive that they are so.'

Othmar ' began the other.

Othmar ? ' repeated the old diplomat,
Othmar reminds me of a man I once knew,
who was a collector of miniatures ; the collection
has been dispersed now by unworthy
heirs, but some twenty years ago it was a
marvel of completeness. Every admirable miniatures
whom the world has possessed was represented
in it by his finest examples. It had
taken him thirty-five years and more millions
to make it what it was. Any one else would
have thought it perfect. He did not, because
he lead not an example amongst it of Karl
Huth. You may never have heard of Karl

Huth ; I never had. He was a German miniatures
of the sixteenth century ; he dwelt at
Daunenberg, a small place on the Elbe. There
is nothing of him in any museum, and there
was supposed to be nothing of him anywhere
but his tradition. For thirty-five years my
friend hunted North and South Germany fora
Karl Huth. At length, such was his perseverance
that he did find an undeniable Karl
Huth, in the family of a tradesman at Grieffen-
hagen, in a little portrait of a woman, on ivory,
the size of a walnut, and signed and dated.
His joy was immense ; but, alas ! it was of short
duration. The burgomaster who owned it
would not part with it. My friend offered
sums untold for this three inches of ivory,
would have sold his estates to purchase it,
stopped at nothing in his frantic offers ; but
the burgomaster was rich, too, and inflexible ;
he would not sell the Karl Huth. There was
some fable in his family about it. Two obstinacies
met with a shock like the foreheads of
two elephants in combat ; of course the Teuton
obstinacy beat the Gaul's. The Karl Huth
remained in the burgomaster's possession, and
my friend had such an excess of rage and

despair that it brought on gout and killed him
in an inn in that obscure Pomeranian town 
all because with three thousand five hundred
famous miniatures he failed to acquire one
obscure example. Now Madame Napraxine is
certainly not obscure, nevertheless she is the
Karl Huth of Othmar. He is one of those men
who can command and enjoy everything ; therefore,
of course, he has set his heart on the only
woman, probably, in Europe who will not smile
on him. All his grand collection became worthless
to my poor friend when once he failed
to include in it that single Karl Huth.'

Othmar, meanwhile, unconscious that they
talked of him, even unconscious that his passion
for his friend's wife had been ever suspected by
his world, found the dinner tedious, and was
not distracted by his neighbours, both of whom
where lovely women.

When they returned to the salons at the
further end of the great central drawing-room,
which was all white and silver, with satin
panels embroidered with silver thread, and
doors made of mirrors painted with groups of
flowers, there was seated all alone at one of
the little tables a very young girl, who wore a

plain white gown, with a plain black sash tied
around her waist, a I' enfant and a black ribbon
holding up the thick masses of her fair
hair.

'That is Cendrillon,' thought Othmar,
moved to a vague interest as he recalled the
story which Melville had told ; and he looked
on her more attentively.

As she rose at the entrance of the Duchess
he saw that she was very tall for her age ;
the slim, straight, unornamented frock became
her : she had neither awkwardness nor self-consciousness,
neither much timidity nor any self-assertion.
There was a look about her of
spirited but restrained life which was pathetic,
the look of any high-courage young animal
which is too early and too rudely tamed.

Poor child ! ' thought Othmar in an involuntary
pity, as he saw the Duchess go upto
her, tap her carelessly on the shoulder with
a fan, present her to another lady and with
that other lady turn away indifferently after a
few words. The girl curtsied lov with perfect
grace, and resumed her seat ; she appeared
used to be forgotten. She sat quite still,
neither embarrassed by neglect or solicitous of

attention. She might have been a statue but
for her half-veiled eyes, of a luminous golden
brown shaded by long black lashes, and her
mouth like a rose, which had made him call
her a Greuze picture as she had passed him in
the boat. She had looked much happier in
the boat than she looked no\7 in the drawing-room.


Othmar watched her a little while. No one
approached her : the men present did not care
for ingenuous ; the women, it is needless to say,
cared still less. The Duchesse did not think it
necessary to trouble herself about a child who
was still in a convent and would soon be in
one for the rest of her days. She was not
averse to such an evidence of her own charity
as her young cousin presented sitting there,
carefully dressed, admirably educated, in living
testimony of the benevolence of Aurore de
Vannes ; but there was no need for more than
the tap with the fan and the good-natured
indifferent Comment va-thon ce soh petite ?

Othmar waited some ten or twelve minutes,
then approached his hostess.

Duchesse, will you do me the honour to
present me to Mdlle. de Valogne ? '

Lie stared at him in astonishment.

Certainly  yes ; why not ?  But how did
you know her name P And she is only a child
at Sacre Coeur.'

Melville told me her sad little story and
of all your amiability towards her. Surely she
will soon be a very beautiful woman : '

Elle nest pas mal,' said the Duchess,
somewhat irritably. ' Melville is always romancing,
you know ; there is nothing to be
romantic about ; she is destined to the religious
life ; it was her grandmother's wish, and
is her own. As for presenting you to her, she
is only a child ; it would not be well to make
her think herself in the world. If you would
excuse me '

Pray present me, Duchesse,' he persisted.
I assure you I do not eat children ; and if she
be doomed to take the veil so soon, the world
will lose her anyhow. But will you have the
heart to cut off all that hair ? '

You will always have your own way,' said
Madame de Vannes, who knew very well that
he did not have it where most he cared ; then
she took him across to where her young cousin
sat, and said, ' Yseulte, Count Othmar wishes

to know you ; he is a friend of Monsignor
Melville's.'

The girl made him the same grand curtsy,
which she had made before, only a little less
low than she had given to the lady. Then she
seated herself once more, and waited for him to
speak first, as we wait for a royal person todo
so.

He spoke to her of Melville, divining that
the way to her confidence would be through
his regard for the early period of her childhood.
She listened with pleasure to his praises
of her grandmother's friend, and answered him
in few syllables ; but the restraint seemed to
him the result neither of timidity nor of want
of intelligence, but of the reserve which had
been imposed upon her alike at her convent
and here at Milloo, where no one heeded her
unless the Due threw her a good-natured
glance, or the Duchesse a petulant word of
censure. It was easy to see that on a nature
formed for light and laughter, the sense of
being unneeded and undesired in the home of
others had early cast shadows too deep for
childhood.

How very handsome she is ! ' he thought,

as he spoke of Melville and his many noble
works. Close to her he could see the exceeding
regularity of her features, the splendour of
her eyes, the purity of her complexion, which
was not the narcissus whiteness of Nadine Na-praise,
but that childlike fairness under which
the colour mantles at any passing thought, or
any effort or exercise. Her form, too, had all
the slenderness and indecision of youth, but it
had also the certainty of a magnificent womanhood.
Her low dress showed her white shoulders,
her quickly-breathing childlike breast, her
beautiful throat.

All that to be wasted in a cloister ! ' he
thought, with repugnance. It seemed a sin
against nature's finest work, youth's most
gracious grace. To be sixteen years old, and
to have a face as fair as a flower, and to bethe
last of a great race, and yet to be doomed
to be joyless, loveless, childless, from birth
unto death, because a little gold and silver
were lacking to her ! To the master of millions
it seemed the crudest irony of fate that
he had ever encountered. Why should the
absurd codes and prejudices of the world make
him powerless to give this unhappy child out

of his abundance the Httle which she would
need to take her place amidst those common
human joys which the poorest can attain, but
which the selfishness of man and the customs of
society forbade to her, merely because she had
been nobly born ? He was thinking of her fate
all the while that he talked to her of Melville ;
he was thinking of that supple slender form
disguised under the nun's heavy garb, of that
abundant hair shorn and falling to the stone
floor. Could those gay, good-natured, idle,
spendthrift people who condemned her so
lightly to such a sacrifice, not surrender one of
their luxuries, one of their follies, to save her ?
Then he pictured to himself, with a smile
at his own whimsical conceit, the tailors' bills of
Madame de Vannes curtailed, her caprices sacrificed,
her equipages diminished, her 'parties de
chasse discontinued, her superfluous jewels sold,
to furnish with the result attained a dower to
her portionless cousin ! These good people
called themselves Christians ; nevertheless, such
generosity would have seemed to them as impossible
as to go out on to the boulevards in the
goatskin of John the Baptist. Would there
ever be a religion that should influence the

lives of its professors ? Christianity had had its
own way for nigh two thousand years, and had
scarcely left a mark on the world so far as practical
renunciation went.

While he mused thus, he talked lightly and
kindly to the girl, but he met with little
response. The convent education had taught
her silence, and she thought that he had only
come to her side because he had pitied her
solitude ; that thought made her shy and proud.
With all his good will, he failed to make
much way into her friendship, or to elicit
much more than monosyllabic replies, and he
would have felt his benevolence wearisome
had it not been that there was so much true
loveliness in her features and in her form that
he was not glad of his release when she was
called by the Duchesse to the piano.

Could you make anything of Yseulte ? '
said the Due de Vannes to him. ' She is the true
ingenue of the novelist and dramatist ; she
knows nothing beyond the four walls of the
convent. It is a type fast disappearing, even
with us, under the influence of American women
and English romances. I am not sure that it is

VOL. I.

not to be regretted ; it is something, at least,
to have a girlhood like a white rose.'

But you are going to set the rose to wither
before the sanctuary of Marie ? ' said Othmar,
still moved by his one idea.

The Due shrugged his shoulders.

Oh, that is uiy wife's affair. Myself, I
think it is a pity. The child will be a magnificent
woman ; but then, you see, she lias no
dower. Where can she go except to the
cloisters? Listen! she sings well'

She was singing then, and her voice rose
with singular richness, like the notes of a nightingale
smiting the silence of a golden southern
noon. The quality of her voice was pure and
strong, with a sound in it as of unshed tears, of
restrained, and perhaps unconscious, emotion.

And she will only sing the Laus Deo and
the Kyrie Ellison thought Othmar, ' and no
one will hear her except a few scores of sad-hearted,
stupid women, who will succeed in
making her as sad-hearted and as stupid as
themselves ! '

What she rendered was the sweetest of
all the simple Pistols written by Eoumanille,
the song of the blind child who begs her

mother to take her to see the Enfant Jesus in
the church, and to whom the mother long replies,
in chiding and hardness of heart : ' What
use, since thou canst not see ? ' Saint Sans
had set the naive and pathetic words to music
which was penetrated with that esprit 'provencal
which has in it ' les pleurs du peuple et
les fleurs du printemps ; ' and the voice of the
girl was pure, tender, and solemn, in unison
with what she treated.

Je sais qu'au tombeau seul finit ma voie obscure ;
Je sais encor
Que je ne verrai pas, divine creature,
Ta face door.

Mais quest-il besoin d'yeux pour adorer et croire ?
Si mes yeux sont
A te voir impuissants, mes mains, 6 Dieu de gloire,
Te touchstone ! '

L'aveugle a ses genoux pleure si fort, et prie

Sur un tel ton,
D'un air si declarant, que la mere attentive

N'a plus dit non.

Oh ! comme la pauvrette, en entrant dans la grotte.

En tressaillait !
De Jesus sur son coeur elle mit la melmotte :

Elle voyait !

Of all those who listened to her, the old
minister, who had spoken of Karl Iluth, and



Otbmar himself, were the only persons touched
by the Likeness of the words of the Noel to the
destiny which awaited the singer of it.

Je sais qu'au tombeau seul finit ma voie obscure

Othmar repeated to himself. ' Poor child !
there will be no miracle wrought for her.'

It seemed to him pathetic, and even cruel.

She had sung with science and accuracy
which where in contrast with the very youthful
cadence of her voice, and when lie ceased there
was a murmur of applause. She blushed a little,
and with a composure that was almost dignity
accepted the compliments paid her, and went
back, without a word, to her seat.

She would make a name for herself as an
artist if she were not the last Comtesse de
Valogne,' thought Othmar. ' Poor child ! it is
hard to bear all the harness and curb of rank
and have none of its gilded oats to eat.'

A pretty elegant was now singing a song
of Judic's with even more suggestion by gesture
and of glance than the original version of it
gave ; the air of the drawing-room rippled with
her silvery notes and their response of subdued
laughter ; everyone forgot Mdlle. de Valogne

and the Provencal Noel. When Othmar looked
again for her, she was gone : the salon saw her
no more that night.

You were soon tired, Othmar,' said the
Duchesse. ' Naturally : what should you find
to say to a child from a convent ? She has not
two ideas.'

She speaks little, certainly,' he answered ;
but I am not sure that it is from want of
ideas ; and even if she have no ideas, what
does a beautiful woman want with them ?  and
she is beautiful.'

I thought you liked clever women.'
Clever ! Oh, what a comprehensive word.
It is like that balloon they advertise, which you
can either fold up in your pocket or float as
high as the moon. As for Mdlle. de Alone,
I should think she was very intelligent, to judge
by her brow and her eyes. But convents do
not nourish their pupils on Eenan and Huxley.'
Eenan ? ' said the Duchess, with a charming
affectation of ignorance. ' Oh, that is the
man who writes so many volumes about himself
to explain why he cannot bring himself
to believe some story about an almond bough
that swallowed snakes ! When Voltaire began

that sort of thing, it seemed shocking, but it

was new ; nowadays it is not new and nobody

is shocked ; it is only tiresome.'

But you, Madame, who laugh, yet respect

the Church enough to sacrifice a virgin to it as

the Greek to the Minotaur ? '

There is no other retreat possible for girls

of good family who are portionless,' said the

Duchess very positively.

But there are many men who do not

marry for a dower.'

Perhaps, but not with us ; it would be
quite impossible, an unheard of thing,' said the
Duchesse, scandalised at such a suggestive violation
of all etiquette and family dignity.

From time immemorial the younger sons
or the unmarriageable daughters of the Valogne,
of the Creusacc, of the d'Authemont, of all the
great races whose blood met in this child, had
hidden their narrowed fates With decorum and
stateliness in the refuge of the cloisters ; why
should she, because she had been born in the
latter half of the nineteenth century, rebel
against so just a disposal? And she did not
rebel at all, would not, unless some man made
love to her and put rebellion in her head.

That man would not be Otlimar ; he had only
one thought  Jardine Napraxine. If she had
not been sure of that, she would not even have
presented him to her young cousin, for she was
a very proud Avoman despite her frivolity, and
to seek a rich alliance for a poor relative would
have seemed to her the last of degradations.
Her own people, and her husband's, had always
married as sovereigns do, accepting and conferring
equal advantages.

Poverty has the right to be as proud as it
chooses so long as it accepts nothing ; when
once it has accepted anything, it has become
mendicity,' had said often the old Marquise de
Creusacc to her granddaughter, and Yseulte
would not do dishonour to that lesson.

One can trust her implicitly,' said Madame
de Vannes once to her husband, who had
answered :

Oh, yes, my dear ; that is the result of
an old-fashioned education. When your Blanched
and Toinon are at her age, they will
know everything objectionable under the sun,
but they will not let you know that they know
it. You are bringing them up move britannica ! '

CHAPTEE Viii.

YsEULTE DE Valogne, waking the next morning
and looking through the little panes of her high
window in the roof at the landscape which the
red leaves of the Canadian vine framed in
crimson, was conscious of a new interest in her
life. Some one, she did not know whom, for in
her confusion she had not heard his name, had
spoken to her with kindness, and that deference
to her incipient womanhood which is the
sweetest flattery to a very young girl. Othmar,
with the grace of his manner, the seriousness
and .coldness which made him different to the
men of his tune, and his handsome features, to
which an habitual reserve had given that
expression of self-control and of melancholy
which most attracts her sex, had seemed to her
imagination like some gracious knight of old
bending to pity her loneliness, and to succour
that timidity which was in so much due to
her pride and her unwillingness to be regarded

with compassion and to her dread lest she
should seem to seek attention.

She thought of him with a vague personal
interest stronger than any she had felt in her
simple and monotonous life, since her childhood
on the He St. Louis had become to
her like an old book of prayer, shut up
unused, with the lavender and southern wood
of long dead summers faded and dried inside
it. Though she was only sixteen, that childhood
seemed so far, so very far, away. It
would have appeared to Blanchette and Toinon,
with their artificial, excited, blase little lives, a
dull and austere childhood enough, passed
beside the infirmities and incapacities of age,
and with no other active pleasure than to
gather marguerites on the grass islands of the
Seine or to hear a Magnificat sung at Notre
Dame.

The rooms they lived in had been narrow
and dark, their food had been of the simplest,
their days regulated with exact and severe
precision. But she had been so happy ! When
her grandmother, with the white hair like spun
silk and the thin small hands, on which one
great diamond sparkled  sole relic of a splendid

past  said, with a smile, ' C'est bien fait, mon
enfant,' all the universe could have added nothing
to her content.

When the old man servant Benoit had taken
her out to the Sainte Chapelle, or the graves
at the Abbaye, and had told her tales of how
her forefathers had died on the scaffold, in the
noyades on the battle-fields of Jemappes, orin
the slaughter of Quiberon, she had known
that purest of all pride, which rejoices in the
honour and loyalty of the dead who have
begotten us. All the air about her had been
redolent of fidelity, of courage, of dignity.
She had breathed in that fine clear atmosphere
of integrity as the transparent dianthus
drinks in the sea-water which the sunbeams
pierce with vivifying gold. When the Marquise
had sometimes taken, out of old sandalwood
coffers, antique brocades, dusky old
jewels, faded yellow letters, perhaps a ribbon
and a star of some extinct order once worn at
Marly or at Amboise, the child had listened
with reverent ear and beating heart to the stories
which went with the relics and keepsakes, and
it had always seemed to her as if some perfume
of the past entered her very veins, as its

fragrance is poured upwards from the root
into the flower. Nor had it been always melancholy,
that innocent, tranquil life ; gentlemen
of the old courtly habits had made their bow
humbly in those narrow rooms, and the old
gaiety gaulish had laughed sometimes beneath
the sad serenity of losses nobly borne. There
had been merry days when Benoit had taken
her in one of the boats which crossed the Seine
in summer, and had rowed to one of those
quiet nooks of which he had the secret, and
had landed with her amidst the tall hay grasses,
and had set her noonday meal there  a little
fruit and roll of bread  watching the poplars
quiver in the light, and the women work upon
the shore, and the clumsy brown brigs come
and go on the broad breast of the river ; and
she had clasped a great sheaf of may and daisies
and kingcups in her arms, and had run hither
and thither in a very ecstasy of limbs set free
and eyes delighted, and had cried her delight
aloud to the old man, who had nodded and
smiled and said, ' Oui, oui, c'est beau,' but had
thought, with a pang at his faithful heart, ' Si

jeunesse savait .'

Then, whilst she was still a young child,

there had fallen across her life the darkness of
the ' anne terrible.' The Marquise de Creusacc
had been at once too brave and too poor to
quit Paris when the wall of iron and of fire
had closed in around it. Her sons had died,
one at the cavalry charge of Fraischweiler, the
other during the siege of Strasburg ; she herself
never rose from her bed during that ghastly
winter, and her last breath left her lips as the
Prussians entered Paris. The horror of that
time could never wholly pass from the mind of
Yseulte. Benoit had travelled with her to the
chateau of Bois les Bois, and placed her under
the roof of her only living relative, Aurore de
Vannes, who herself was momentarily saddened
and touched by the misfortunes of the country
and the loss of many of her kinsmen, and in
that chastened mood was kinder to the little
friendless fugitive than she might have been at
another and less desperate time.

All that time seemed very far away to
Yseulte now ; to earliest youth, a few years
seems like the gap of a century.

Benoit was dead now, like the mistress he
had adored and served, with that loyal service
which, in this later time, one class has lost the

power to inspire and the other class lias lost the
capacity to render ; but those happy midsummer
holidays on the islets of the Seine
were always in her mind whenever she felt the
touch of the fresh air or smelt the scent of
growing leaves. They had spread a fragrance
like that of summer all over her memories of
childhood. She pitied Blanche te and Toinon,
who cared nothing for daisies and kingcups ;
who tired so soon of their costly playthings ;
who knew their Trouville and Biarritz by
heart, who, when they played at their games,
were either peevish or bored, and who looked
with all the scorn of fashionable eight-beholders
on a toilette which was a season out of
date. Blanchette and Toinon would die without
ever having been young ; their cousin, who
at sixteen was still entirely a child, had to die
to the world before she had betun to live.

She leaned out of her window in the chill
of the early morning, and she watched the
sea mists curl up and drift away before the
sun, the mountains come forth slowly from the
clouds obscuring them, the light touch and
reveal one by one the low white bastides, the
grey olive yards, the bosquets of orange and

lemon, the fields where the young corn already
was spreading, the fantastic buildings which
diversified and vulgarised the beauty of the
scene, and the grey towers of S. Pharamond
sober and severe amidst its ilex woods by
contrast with the coquetteries and motley
phantasies of its neighbours.

I wonder,' she thought for the hundredth
time, 'if it were only because he pitied me
that he talked to me ? '

She went on wondering who he was, what
he was ; she did not even know that he owned
S. Pharamond, and dared ask no one about
him ; all the gay, thoughtless, inquisitive questions
which youth loves to put, whilst often too
impatient to wait for an answer to them, had
been too perpetually frozen on her lips for
silence not to have become a second nature
to her.

What you can observe is well,' her grandmother
had often said to her ; ' it is the wheat
you have gleaned, and you have a right to it.
But never gain knowledge by asking questions
; it is the short cut across the fields which
only trespassers take.'

At the convent any interrogations which

lie had been tempted to make had been repressed
as too apposite to be convenient, and
of the Duchesse de Yannes she woidd have no
more have asked a question or a favour than
she would have asked one of the lay figures
on which the Duchesse's marvellous costumes
were built up, bit by bit, as idea succeeded to
idea in the brains of great artists of the
toilette.

She had scarcely heard a dozen sentences
from Madame Aurore in the half-dozen years
through which she had spent her summer
vacations at their great castle in the Vosges,
a lonely place where she had usually only
the house-servants as companions ; but in
winter at Milloo she had been always happy,
for near Milloo dwelt her foster-mother, a
Savoyards, who had become well-to-do since
the time when, a poor young unwedded mother
astray on the mercy of Paris, she had been
glad to give her breast to the motherless child
of the Comtesse de Alone. Through the
influence and aid of the Marquise de Creusacc
the woman Nicolee had ultimately married her
lover, a sturdy peasant of the environs of Nice,
and by thrift and hard work and good luck

and good husbandry combined, they now owned
a bastide and an orange-orchard, and could
receive ' la petite Comtesse ' with honey and
cream and conserves of their own manufactures.
They had no children, and Mile, de
Valogne still filled in the heart of her foster-mother
the place which had been empty and
cold when a month-old baby had gasped out
its last breath of feeble life in a Paris hospital
sixteen years before.

What is the good of it all, the 'pkioi is
dead and gone ? ' said Nicolee Sandroz many
a time, looking over her hives and hen-houses,
her rose-beds and her green peas, all blooming
for the Paris market. But this mood was
transient ; the j)etiot was not to be recalled by
regret, and the solid delight of early vegetables
and their value remained to her. She was a
good woman, though hard in some ways and
greedy ; but she was the only creature who
gave Yseulte de Valogne anything of the comfort
of human affection and tender, blind,
unreasoning admiration. To Nicolee ' mon enfant
la Comtesse ' was an object of honest
adoration, to be waited on, worshipped, petted,
slaved for if need be ; and this wholly sincere,

if clumsy, devotion had always been to the
starved heart of the girl as the one scrap of
moss on the frozen sea and shore is to the
lonely and lost voyager.

When the dark, hard-featured face of the
Noise presented itself at the convent gates
of Faiel, and with her load of oranges or
strawberries, of camellias or roses, she came
out of the hot sun into the quietness and dusk
of the parloir and stretched out her big sturdy
arms to her nursling, the proud eyes of
Yseidte filled with tears as no one else ever
saw them do. She was a little child once more
clinging to her nurse's skirts in the old panelled
rooms in the He St. Louis.

The low white walls of the bastide were
set upon a hill-side not half-an-hour's walk
from Milloo, a fragrant, pleasant, homely place,
with violets cultured like corn, and roses grown
like currant-bushes, for the flower-shops of
Paris and the purchase of the foreigners in
Nice. The mere presence of Ecole made her
visits to the southern shore longed for and
enjoyed, and compensated to her for the fretful
teazing of her little cousins, the ill-concealed
enmity of their governesses, the perpetual sense

VOL. I. p

of being undesired by any one there, and the
many sights which the indifference of her
hosts made them careless of inflicting. Aurore
de Vannes would have said, if remonstrated
with, that the girl could want for nothing. She
had two pretty rooms all to herself, and a
piano in one of them ; had as many gowns as
she could wear, though, of course, at her age
they were the frocks of a pensionnaire ; and
could pass her time in the schoolroom or in the
gardens very much at her pleasure ; she could
even drive out in the basket-carriage if Blanch-este
and Toinon did not want it. The existence
must, she would have argued, at any rate
be very much livelier than the convent.

In the first winter she had passed at Milloo
no one had come there but herself  and she
had spent her time almost wholly with her
foster-mother ; later on, when the house was
full  as it was now  she obtained in her holidays
a large amount of liberty, from the fact
that it was no one's especial duty to look after
her. She used her freedom innocently enough,
and always took the path under the olives
which led to the flower-farm of the Sandroz.

Once the Duchesse had said to her irritably.

What charm do you find in peasants grubbing
among peas talks and growing salad?' But she
had not waited for an answer, which was fortunate,
as Yseulte would have been too shy to
give the true one,  that they loved her a little.

The Duchesse concluded that the governesses
of her children did their duty in attending
on her young cousin. The governesses, however,
were willing that one who was only an
extra charge to them should do as she chose so
long as she brought no trouble on themselves ;
few mornings passed without her finding her
way to the welcome of her old nurse, to sit at
pleasure under the shadow of the orange leaves,
or drift through clear water in the big market
boat.

Madame de Vannes was, as the world in
general would have said, very generous to her ;
her education was of the best, the clothes provided
for her were elegant and suitable, her linen
was of the finest, her boots and shoes were the
prettiest possible ; the Duchesse did everything
well that she did at all ; but beyond a remark
that her hair was too low or too high on her
forehead, or that she did not wear the right
gloves with the right frock, Yseulte could

p 2

scarcely recall twenty phrases that she had
heard from her august cousin. Now and then
the heart of the girl had risen in an impulse of
ardour towards liberty, towards independence.
She was conscious of more talent than the manner
of her education had developed ; in a vague
way she sometimes fancied the world might
hold some place for her, some freedom of effort
or attainment ; but all the habits of obedience
made a cage for her as surely as the laws made
one. Her grandmother had written with a
hand half paralysed by death to commend her
to the care of her relative, and amongst her
dying words the command : ' Obey Aurore
as you have obeyed me,' had been often repeated.
Any thought of rebellion was stifled
by her sense of duty as soon as it arose.

This morning, as she leaned out of her
window she could see the white house of the
Sandroz, half a league away, amongst the olive
foliage, and what was still more to her, the
tiny bell tower of a little whitewashed church,
the parish church of S, Pharamond, in whose
parish Milloo also lay. The one cracked bell
sounding feebly for matins recalled her to the
present hour, and reminded her that the morrow

was the feast day of S. Cecilia to whom
the building was dedicated.

He will be so vexed if the altar be not
dressed,' she thought. The old priest of Milloo
was accustomed to look to her for that service.
The Duchesse always gave him two thousand
francs in gold for his poor at New Year, but
there her heed of her vicar ended. Yseulte,
who had no gold to give, brought him flowers
and boughs for his little, dusky, lonely place,
where only a few fishermen and peasants ever
knelt, and she sometimes sang at his Offices.

When she remembered the day, she wasted
no more time at the window ; she drank the
cup of milk and ate the roll which the maid
appointed to her service brought, and putting
on a little hat of fur, went out through the
house where even Blanchette and Toinon were
still asleep, and only a few of the under servants
were stirring.

It was cold, but already grown blight, with
sunshine, and the promise of a warm noonday.

The gardens of Milloo, with their autumn
luxuriance still prolonged, were sparkling with
sunbeams and dew-drops ; their aloes and cacti
pierced with broad sword-blades the blue clear

air ; the latest roses kissed the earliest camellias ;
the pink, the amber, the white, the purple, of
groves of chrysanthemums, glowed in the parterres
; but she did not dare to give them even
a glance. No one ever plucked a flower there.
She went quickly through the alleys, and
avenues, over the lawns, and under the herceaux
and after walking about a mile came to where
the boundary of Milo was fixed by a high wall
of closely-clipped arbutus, and only the small
iron gate which Othmar had unlocked the previous
night gave access to the lands of S. Paramount,
which lay beyond.

There will be sure to be something here,'
she thought, as she turned the latch of the
gate which he had unthinkingly left open, and
passed through the aperture into the thick ilex
wood on the other side of the bear berry wall.
She was not surprised to find it open, for the
gardeners of the two houses often held communication
; and she had been constantly permitted
by those of S. Pharamond to wander
about its grounds and pluck its commoner
plants. It was a thing she had done a hundred
times in the winters she had passed at Milloo.
There were all kinds of plants growing up

at Nicolee's bastide ; but as she lead no money
to pay, the child had always felt a delicacy
in asking, for them. Her foster-m. other would
indeed have refused her nothing ; but to take
as a gift the late-come quatre-saisons rose, or
the early-blooming coquettes, which the San-drop
could sell so highly by sending them
away in little air-tight tin boxes to Paris,
would have appeared to the generous temper
of the last of the Valognes a very ungenerous
act.

Othmar, who had slept ill, rose early that
day. Wlien he had bathed and dressed, he
strolled out on to his terrace, where Nadine
Napraxine had eaten her strawberries. Though
winter, the morning was mild, the sunrise
glorious. Through the great gloom of his ilex
groves he could see the sparkle of blue waves.
It was not the scenery he cared most for ;
he liked the great windy shadowy plains of
eastern Europe, the snow of mountains more
sombre and severe than these hyacinth-hued
maritime Alps, the gigantic grey walls of Atlantic
rollers breaking on rugged rocks of Spain,
or Britain, or Scotland ; but he was not insensible
to the present beauty which surrounded

him, if it were brighter and paler of hue, gayer
of tone, softer in character, than the scenes he
preferred.

He stood and looked idly, and thinking,
If I were wise I should go to Paris this morning.'


What was the use of letting all his years
languish and drift aimlessly away for sake of a
woman who made sport of his pain ? Yonder,
hidden by the curve of a distant cliff, was La
Jacquemerille, and its mistress of the moment
was, no doubt, sleeping soundly enough amongst
the lace and cambric and satin of her bed, and
would not have lain awake one moment thinking
of him, though he had thought of her all
night.

Were people ever sleepless for love ? ' she
had said once, with her pretty cynical smile.
'That must have been very long ago, before
the chemists had given us chloral ! '

As he stood and thus made his picture of
her in his mind sleeping, as the narcissus which
she resembled sleeps in the moonlight, he saw a
figure underneath the ilex boughs which was
not hers, but had a grace of its own, though
wholly unlike her.

It was the figure of a girl in a grey close
dress which defined the outline of her tall
slim limbs. She wore a fur hat, and had some
fur about her shoulders ; the sunbeams of the
early day touched the gold in her hair and
shone in her hazel eyes. She was gathering now
one datura, now another, of those spared by the
December mistral, and coming up to a bed of
camellias, paused doubtfully before their blossoms
; she came there like one accustomed to
the place, and who merely did what she had
often done before. Her grey gown, her sunny
hair under its crown of sable, her hands filled
with flowers, made a picture underneath the
palms, amidst the statues, against the ilex darkness.


He recognised the child whom he had last
seen in her Avhite gown with the black sash
a few hours before in the Duchesse's drawing-rooms.


For the moment, he put on her appearance
there that construction which a man, subject
from his boyhood to the advances and solicitations
of the other sex, was most apt to conceive
of such an unsought visit. But as he saw how
unconcerned, natural, and childlike her movements

were as she paused, now by this shrub
and now by that, or sat down on a bench
to arrange some asters in her basket, he as
rapidly discarded his suspicions and guessed
the truth, that she had been ignorant of who
he was the previous evening, and had come to
his gardens by chance or by custom.

As he hesitated whether to descend and
make her welcome, or to retreat unseen
into the house and tell his servants to say
nothing, she looked up and saw him. She
dropped her flowers on the grass, and turned
to run away like any startled nymph in classic
verse, but he was too quick for her ; he had
descended the few steps from his terrace and
had approached her before she could fly from
him.

Do not be so unkind to me,' he said, with
deference and courtesy, for he divined how
ashamed she was to have been found there.
There is little in these gardens after beincr
swept by the mistral, which is a cruel horticulturist,
but the hothouses, I hope, may give you
something worthier your acceptance.'

I beg your pardon,' she murmured, ' there
has been no one here so long '

He had spoken as though her presence was
the most natural thing in the world, but neither
his composed acceptance of it or his courteous
welcome could reconcile her to the position she
occupied. She coloured painfully, and her
breath came and went in an agitation she
could not subdue.

I beg your pardon,' she stammered again ;
I did not know  last night I did not hear your
name  there has been no one here so long.
Oh, what can you think of me ! '

Her eyes were filled with sudden tears ; her
colour faded as suddenly as it had come. She
was only a child, and had been reared by stern
formalities and by chill precepts.

Think ? ' echoed Othmar ; ' that you are
kind enough to treat me as a neighbour.
Neighbours are not always friends, but I hope
we shall be so. That little gate has no use in
it unless it be an open portal for friendship to
pass to and fro ; I walked through it to Milloo
last night.'

But his good nature and gentleness could
not avail to console her for what was in her
own eyes, as it would have been in that of her
relatives, an unpardonable and infamous misdemeanour.

Now that lie recognised in the
speaker the same person whom her cousin had
presented to her the previous evening, she
longed for the lawn she stood on to open and
cover her. A piteous dismay took possession
of her; would he ever believe that she had
not known him as the owner of S. Pharamond ?
Would he ever believe that S. Pharamond
had been that morning, as far as her knowledge
had gone, still unoccupied as it had been for
ten mortal years ?

All the lessons of her convent life made
her act appear in her own eyes one of inexcusable
audacity, unspeakable horror,  to
have come into the gardens of a stranger when
he was himself there to take his flowers !

The kindness of his gaze and the cordiality
of his welcome could do nothing to console
her ; she was barely conscious of them ; the
colour in her face mounted to the loose curls
escaping from her little fur cap ; she laid her
basket down and joined her hands in an unconscious
supplication.

There has been no one here so long,' she
said yet again with pathetic appeal in her
voice. ' I thought I did no harm ; M. Duels

the head gardener, has always let me
come when there is a feast day. Indeed, I
have never taken the rare flowers, only those
which he did not want. It is the parish church
of S. Pharamond, too ; I did not know I did
wrong  pray do not blame the gardeners.'

Blame them, when I am so much their
debtor ! I wish you would believe that you
are the queen of all the gardens here. Why,
even still you are hesitating to pluck the
camellias ! '

Because they told me never to touch them ;
I only looked at them ; I think M. Duvelleroy
sends them to Nice to sell. Indeed  indeed 
I have never taken but what he told me I might
have.'

What seemed so very terrible to her was
that she must appear to the owner of S. Paramount
as a thief of his flowers ! A vague
idea flashed across her mind, that perhaps she
might pay for the value of them  but then
she had no money ! The old jewels of her
mother were to be hers, indeed ; but when ?
She had not even seen them since her grandmother
had died ; perhaps they were to be
sold to defray the cost of her entrance into convent

life ; she did not know. The great trouble
of her spirit was reflected in her face, which was
full of conflicting emotions ; her mouth, which
had been too silent the night before, trembled
a little ; the tears gleamed under her long
lashes. Othmar thought her much more interesting
with all this expression breaking up
from under the mask of white marble which
the convent had made her wear. In her
bewilderment she became altogether a child ;
and the stately quiet of her manner fell away
from her like an embroidered ermine-lined
robe too heavy for her years.

Do they sell my camellias  the rogues ? '
he said with a smile. ' Of course you shall go
away if you will, but not empty-handed. There
must be something better worth having than
those frost-bitten roses.'

He called a man who was sweeping up
leaves on a lawn here.

Go and tell your chief to cut his finest
orchids and bring them in a basket to me
himself: any other rare thing he may have in
the houses he can cut also. Mademoiselle,'
he said, turning to the girl, ' you must not go
back to Milloo with such a poor opinion of my

gardens. Is the Duchesse well ? You remember
that I had the honour to be presented to
you by her last evening ? '
You are Count Othmar ? '
Men call me so,' he replied, for he never
loved that title which seemed to him so contemptible
a thing, given, as it had been, in the
beginning of the century by the first Emperor.
' I am happy to be the owner of
S. Pharamond, since you deign to visit it.
You are at Milloo every winter, I think ? '

I am ; they are not,' she said, regaining
her composure a little. ' I did not hear your
name last night. I thought you were some
gentleman from Paris.'

I live oftener in Paris,' he replied, ' but
at the present moment I come from Central
Asia. I am a friend of Monsignore Melville, as
I told you ; and I hope you will believe me
when I say that, if only for his regard for you,
you would be welcome at S. Pharamond.'

He spoke without compliment, seeing that
any compliment would only scare her more.

You help my parish church, did you say ? '
he continued. ' It is very disgraceful of me
never to have knovn it ; we will get Melville

to come and preach there. Does the cure want
for anything ?  is there nothing I could do ? '

He wants a new soutane very much,' she
said with hesitation.

Then a new soutane he shall have before
the world is a week older,' said Othmar.
Why will you go away ? Are you too afraid
of me to venture into the house? Would you
not have some cream, some cakes, some strawberries
? What do young Graces like you live
upon? Command anything you will.'

I have had some bread and milk ; I want
nothing ; you are very kind.'

If you think me so, you must not treat me
so distantly. You must make me a friend of
yours. The Duchesse herself presented me
last night. You seem determined to forget
that '

She stood inclined to go away, unwilling
to seem ungrateful, yet afraid to remain ; a
charming picture of confusion and indecision,
mingled with a gravity and a grace beyond her
years. The Greuze face which he had seen in
the boat bore the full force of the morning
light as a Rose bears it, the pure tints only
deepened and illumined by it. Under the

straight simple lines of the grey stuff gown the
budding beauties of a still childish form could
be divined ; in her embarrassment her colour
still came and went ; her large eyes, of a golden
hazel, were almost black from the shadow of
their lashes. So far as a man whose heart and
senses are engrossed by one woman can be
alive to the loveliness of another, Othmar was
sensible of this youthful and poetic beauty,
which seemed to belong to the first fresh hours
of the morning, and to be born of it as the
rosebuds were.

I hope you will not be angry,' lie said
anxiously. ' It was my fault. At Milloo no
one must touch a single flower, and the cure
likes to see the altar pretty, and so one day  
oh, that is quite a long time ago, three winters
ago  I happened to see the gate open into
these grounds, and I asked M. Henri if I might
gather wdiat he did not care to sell, and he said
that I was welcome always to the common
flowers. You will not blame him, if you please,
for it was altogether my fault.'

She had seldom made a speech so long in
her life, and she praised, ashamed of the sound

VOL. I. 

of her voice in the quiet of the morning air.
She feared also that she was doing wrong to
speak at all to this stranger, all owner of S.
Pharamond though he might be.

All that I am inclined to blame him for,'
answered Othmar, ' is for having laid any restrictions
upon you ; he has no right to sell
even a sprig of mignonette. These gardens
are not kept for profit ; they can have no happier
use than to contribute to your pleasure
and to the altars of the church. Pray, do not
go ; wait a moment for this criminal to bring
us the orchids.'

But she only grew more alarmed at her
own intrusion there. The easy, kindly gallantry
of his manner scarcely reassured her ; she was
but a child, and a child reared in formal and
severe codes. She doubted that she was guilty
of some grave offence in standing under a palm-tree
beside a group of camellias with a person
whom she had scarcely seen before. She had
neither the habits of the world nor the conventional
badinage which could have met his
courtesy on its own ground and replied to it ina
few careless phrases. But it seemed to him
that her silence was golden, as golden as the

gleams in her changeful hazel eyes as the sun
smote on them.

If you would allow me to go,' she murmured,
' I have quite enough flowers here.
It is such a small church, and the orchids
would be much too rare '

If the orchids were made of rubies and
pearls, what happier fate could they ask than
to fall from your hands on to the altars of the
Madonna?' said Othmar, cs he broke off the
blossoms of his camellias with no sparing hand.

At that moment the head-gardener, alarmed
and disturbed at the message wych he had
received from his master, came in sight with
a basket hurriedly filled with some of the
choicest treasures of his forcing-houses.

Othmar took it from him :

You did quite right,' he said in a low
tone, ' to make my friends welcome to the
gardens in my absence, but another time, M.
Duvelleroy, make them welcome to the best ;
do not reserve it for the markets and the florist
shops of Nice.'

The man, guilty, and taken at a disadvantage,
had no time to prepare a lie ; he grew
red, and stammered, and was thankful for his

Q 2

master's gesture of dismissal as Othmar turned
from him impatiently and offered the orchids
to the girl.

You are angry with him.' she said, anxiety
conquering her timidity.

Not so ; I am grateful to him,' said Othmar.
But I shall, perhaps, be angry with my house-steward,
whose duty it is to keep these rogues
clean-handed. If he had given you his best
flowers I would have pensioned him for life,
but to limit you to taking what he did not
v/ant to sell, was to disgrace S. Pharamond.'

'Indeed, he has been very kid all these
three winters,' she murmured, in infinite distress
at the thought that she had inadvertently
injured the man in his master's opinion.

He shall wear the order of St. Fiacre if
you like, if there be such an order to reward
good gardeners,' said Othmar gaily, seeing her
genuine anxiety on the man's behalf. ' I may
come and see your decorations to-morrow
shall I send you a load of flowers That
would be better I think.'

She looked alarmed.

Oh no ; oh pray, do not ! ' she said with
earnestness. 'You are very kind to think of it,

Monsieur, but it would frighten the cure, and
we should not know what to do with so many,
the church is so very small '

She hesitated a moment, the colour in her
cheeks grew warm as she added :

My cousin does not know that I come
here. I do not mean that it is any secret, but
she might think it wrong, intrusive, impertinent
'

She could think nothing of the sort,' said
Othmar. ' They are three words which no one
could associate with Mdlle. de Valogne ; I
am delighted my deserted house could be so
honoured. Must you go? I shall not easily
forgive myself if I frighten you away. Let me
come with you to the gate at least.'

He walked beside her under the palms and
on the shaven grass down an aisle of clipped
arbutus, carrying for her the camellias, white
and rose, which he had broken off their plants
with no care for the appearance of the group
to which they belonged.

She was silent ; she was subdued by an
unwonted sense of wrong-doing ; she fancied
that she had committed some terrible indiscretion
; but how was she to have known

that he was there, when for three winters the
camels had blossomed unseen in those silent
evergreen ways, which no step but a gardener's
had ever disturbed, and where she had come
to watch the blackbirds trip over the fallen
leaves, and the fountains dance in the sunshine,
and the tea-roses shower petals of cream
and of gold on the terraces, with no more
thought or hesitation than she had gone to the
olive-yards of Nicolee Andros ? Her confusion
had nothing of awkwardness. It was very
graceful, almost stately, in its silence ; it was
the grave innocence, the startled hesitation, of
the young nymph surprised in the sanctuary of
the grove.

She accepted the orchids with a serious
gratitude, which seemed to him quite out of
proportion to the slenderness of the gift ; but
when he said as much she interrupted him :

They are so beautiful,' she said earnestly.
It seems cruel to have plucked them. One
fancies they will take wing like the butterflies.'


You are very fond of flowers ? '

Oh yes  and people waste them so. At
my cousin's ball last week there were five

thousand roses. I saw them in the morning ;
they were quite dead.'

Did you not see them at night ? '

At night, no ; low could I ? I am not in
the world ; I never shall be. Sometimes they
tell me to be an hour in the reception-rooms
after dinner ; that is all ; I do not care for it.'

But do you not wish for the time of balls
to come ? Every young girl does.'

I try never to think about it,' she said
simply. ' I know it will never come for me.'

There was a resignation in her words which
was more pathetic than any regrets.

Then with the colour hot in lier cheeks
again, remembering that she Alas speaking too
much to a stranger, she opened the little gate
in the arbutus walk Which led into the grounds
of Milloo. ' I thank you very much,' she murmured.
' I assure you I will never come
again.'

'And unless you come again, I assure you
that you will tell me tacitly that I have had
the misfortune to displease you,' said Othmar,
as he held open the gate, and bowed low to
her ; he saw that it would be only unkindness
to detain her or to accompany her. She was

as uneasy as a bird wliicli has flown by mistake
into a conservatory.

I will come to the church tomorrow,*
he added . ' Do you not sing there sometimes
? '

Now and then. There is no one else to
sing. But my cousin does not approve of it.
She thinks there may be people over from
Nice ; but there never are. There is no one
but the peasants.'

The Duchesse will not mind me,' said
Othmar. ' Let us say au revoir ! '

He kissed her hand with a careless gallantry
which made her colour over her brow and
throat, and let her leave him. She sped like a
frightened fawn over the turf and was soon
lost to sight in the bosquets of Mio.

Othmar strolled back to the house.

Au tombeau seul finit ma voie obscure,'

he repeated to himself as he looked after her ;
the pathos of her destiny gave her a spirituality
and a sanctity in his sight, and the song of
the blind child and its young singer for a few
moments disputed a place in his memory
with the vision of Nadine Napraxine as she

had plucked the tea-roses 011 his terrace to let
them fall.

'That young girl would not let a rose fade,'
he thought, ' and her own roses are to wither
between convent walls ! What arbitrary caprices
has Fate ! If they would only let me give hera
million '

But they would not even have let him give
her orchids and camellias had they known it.

CHAPTEE IX.

Othmar went into his house, but before taking
his coffee sent for his steward, and gave him
a brief but severe reprimand for having permitted
Duvelleroy and his underlings to use
the gardens as a nursery-ground.

The grounds may be sacked to please my
friends,' lie said, in conclusion. ' But if a
single carnation be soul for a single centime, it
is not the seller who will be dismissed, but
yourself, who are paid highly only that yon
may save your subordinates from those temptations
which kill honesty and should be no more
left in the path of poor men than poisoned
mangoes in a sheep-field.'

The notion that his hothouses and gardens
had furnished the flower-sellers of Nice with
materials for their myriads of bouquets, irritated
him disproportionately. He would have taken
his oath that on none of his estates did his
people steal a farthing's worth. They were all

highly paid, and those set in authority over
them were all men who had been chosen and
enriched by his father ; he had often spoken of
their probity and affection with pride ; and now
they cheated him for sake of selling a bouquet !

It was a mere trifle, no doubt. He would
have cleared his gardens at a stroke to please
anyone he liked ; and he would have given a
poor man willingly the value of all his forcing
houses ; but the knowledge that his hirelings
sold his mignonette and Ms hehotrope to profit
themselves irritated him, and even quite
embittered life to him for the moment. The
most generous minds feel the most acutely
betrayal in small things, and resent most
vividly the contemptible robberies which take
advantage of trust and opportunity. That the
rich man is so seldom honestly served goes
further, perhaps, to redress the balance between
him and the poor man than the latter, in his
ignorance, ever supposes.

After all,' he thought, ' perhaps I only
feed rogues, like Napraxine.' And the thought
was painful to him, for he fed them well.

It was primarily his own fault for so seldom
coming to the place ; perhaps it was natural

that when years rolled on and they never saw
their master they should learn to consider his
possessions as almost their own. But he had
so many places that he could not live in them
all. His fathers had bought them, so, out of
respect to their memories, he could not get rid of
them. He had a great house on the Boulevard
St. Germain ; another great house in Piccadilly ;
another in the Persian Plats of Vienna; he
had estates in France, England, Germany, and
Austria, a Scotch moor, a Flemish forest, a
chateau on the shores of the Dalmatian Adriatic,
a villa at Biarritz, a castle in dense woods on
the Moselle, and whole towns, villages, plains,
and hills in Croatia itself. How was he to live at
all these places ? He lent them liberally, but he
could hardly sell them ; the head of the house
of Othmar could not sell what he had inherited.
If he had sold them he would only have had
more millions with which he would not have
known what to do.

When he had drunk a cup of coffee and a
glass of iced water, he went for a long ride,
mounting high up into the hills until the sea lay
far below, blue as a great bed of mystic, and
the gilded cupolas of La Jacquemerille glittered

in his sight far beneath the darkening slopes of
pine. When he returned to his one o'clock
breakfast, he found that his house Yas deserted
no more. He was told that his uncle, the Baron
Friederich, had arrived by the rapide from
Paris. He was not greatly pleased, but he prepared
to do his duties as a host without betraying
his sense that the new comer was not
precisely in harmony with a romantic retreat
amidst myrtles, camels, and bromelias.

But he also foresaw a tedious day and evening,
and he did not care to have the keen blue
eyes of his father's brother fixed on him at a
moment when he was sending telegrams in all
directions and commanding? all kinds of novel
diversions to amuse and receive the Princess
Napraxine.

Have your travels tended to convince you
that Europeans are wrong not to let the tails
of sheep fatten and appear at their tables ? '
said his unbidden guest, coming out of the
house as though they had parted the previous
night instead of twenty months before.

There was no figure better known in Paris
than that of the Baron Friederich Othmar,
familiar to society all over Europe as Baron

Fritz ; a tall and portly figure carried with the
ease and vigour of manhood, though age had
whitened the hair, that was still abundant, on
the handsome head above. He never attempted
to conceal his age : he despised all inaquillage,
as all healthy and all clever men do ; and if his
skin was as fair and his hands were as white and
soft as a duchess's, it was because nature had
made them so, and a life temperate in indulgence
though entirely unscrupulous in morals
had preserved his health and his strength unimpaired
save by occasional twinges of the
gout. With old Gaulois blood in him, Friedrich
Othmar was a thorough Parisian in habit,
taste, and manner ; but he was a true Slav in
suppleness, sagacity, and profound secretiveness.
Othmar thought that there was not on
the face of the earth another man with such a
hideous power of dissimulation as his uncle ;
whilst the elder man, on the contrary, looked
upon such dissimulation as the mere mark
which distinguishes the civilised being from
the savage. ' Dissimulation lies at the root of
all good manners,' he was wont to say in
moments of frankness. 'Your friend bores you
infinitely ; you smile, and appear charmed !

If you do not, you are a boor. Dissimulation
is the essence of Christianity ; you are enjoined
to turn one cheek after another, and not to
show that you smart. Dissimulation is the
only thing that makes society possible ; without
its amenities, the world would be a bear-garden.'


On the Bourse ' Baron Fritz ' was dreaded
as the keenest-witted colossus of finance in all
Europe. His acumen was unerring ; his mind
was as sensitive to the changes of the political
atmosphere as an electric wire to heat. He
perceived long before anyone else the little
cloud, not so big as a man's hand, which was
pregnant with storm whilst yet the sky was
clear ; he heard long before anyone else the
low tremor in the bowels of the earth which
prefaced the seismic convulsion, as yet undreamed
of by a sleeping world. Therefore,
with supreme tact and matchless instinct, he
had made the House of Othmar the envy of all
its peers. ' What are statesmen without us ? '
said Friederich Othmar. ' They cannot move,
they cannot strike, unless the financiers enable
them to do so ; all their combinations crumble
like a dropt bird's-nest unless we are willing to

sustain them. If Germany had had no money,
could she have crossed the Thine ? The finest
army in the world is no more than a child's
set of metal soldiers if it be not roland sur Vor.
The statesmen are thought to be the chief
rulers and prime motors of the fate of the
world, but they can but act as we who are
behind them permit : they drag the coach ; we
drive it.'

That I know,' answered Othmar. ' We
have the most gigantic responsibility united
with the most utterly corrupt moral code. I
grant that we are, in a way, the Caesar of the
modern world, but we are bestial selfish ; weare
hog-like in our repletion, as all Caesar
become, o financier ever risked ruin for a
noble impulse or for a lost cause. If he did, he
would seem mad to his guild, as Ulysses to his
companions.'

All the enjoyment and sense of power
vdiich Othmar contemptuously rejected his
uncle appreciated to the full ; he was, in his
own way, a Wolsey, a Richelieu, a Bismarck.
Nothing of much importance had been done in
Europe for the last forty years without Friedrich
Othmar being beneath it, in more or less

degree, for weal or woo. He had those unerring
instincts which amount in their own way
to genius.

Endowed nth one of those keen, logical,
yet imaginative brains, which are as necessary
to the great financier as to the great statesman,
he had worked unweariedly all his life long
for the sake and for the glory of the house
of Othmar ; he was in no way of his nephew's
opinion ; he considered that the world held
nothing finer than the fortunes which had
been built up out of Marc Othmar's kreutzers
till it was solid as so many towers of bullion ;
he considered the position of the capitalist who
can refuse a king, sustain a nation, fructify
great enterprises, and constrain or restrain
great wars, was not to be exchanged with any
other power under the sun. In finance he was
inexorable, unerring ; full of the finest penetration,
and the most piercing acumen ; stern as
granite, piercing as steel ; in private life he Alas
an amiable cynic, who cared for very little
except the reputation of his dinners and his
collection of water-colours. Baron Fritz was
never really content out of his little hotel,
which was as cosy as a satin-lined bag, and

VOL. I. R

where by stretching out a finger to touch an
ivory button he could put himself in communication
with all the centres of finance in
Europe. Without moving from his velvet chair
or taking his foot from its gout-stool he could
converse with his brother capitalists at all
quarters of the globe, and change the fate of
nations, and the surface of events in the course
of a winter's forenoon during a pause between
two cigarettes. To be able to do so seemed to
him the very flower and perfection of life. It
was to play chess with the world for your
board, and to say checkmate to living and
crowned kings.

Whenever he expatiated on that theme to
his nephew, Othmar only replied that he himself
did not care for any games.

For the rest, his one great social amusement
was whist ; he could never see why men forsook
their clubs because hay was being mown and
corn reaped and grapes gathered. You bought
forage, you ate bread  very little of it  and
you drank wine, but Vvhy, because those three
things were all in their embryo state every
city in Europe should become empty he had
not patience to comprehend. Xo place was

cooler, shadier, quieter, than your club. The
vast green silent country which his nephew
loved was to him an outer darkness ; he detested
le province with all the maliciousness against it
of a born and bred Parisian,

To see a breezy common on a six-inch
square of David Cox, or a brook purling
amongst rushes by Bennington, Alas to have as
much of the country as he cared to enjoy. The
stones of Vienna, the asphalte of Paris, were
the only ground he cared to tread. He had
educated his cook into perfect excellence, and
never travelled anywhere without him and his
battery of silver saucepans. ' Because you
sleep in a strange bed there is no reason why
you should let yourself be poisoned by strange
dishes,' he invariably said.

On the whole he had led a happy and enviable
life; he was a perfectly selfish man, with
one great unselfish loyalty set in the midst of
his egotism, like a vein of pure marble amongst
a mass of sandstone. ' To benefit the House
Fritz would let himself be brayed in a mortar,'
his brother had often said of him ; in
private life, on the contrary, he was entirely
self-absorbed, as became a man who was oui of

R 2

the most notable persons in Paris ; lie had
never been known to lend a five-franc piece,
but he gave choice dinners three times a week,
which cost twenty napoleons for each guest.

Sometimes he thought with a pang of terror
of what would become of the House of Othmar
when he himself should be no more. He was
seventy years old ; he would be unable to live
for ever; his arsenal of wires contained no
ivory button by which he could summon
eternal life ; he had gout in his system, and he
did not disguise from himself that any day his
cook, with the silver saucepans, his pretty
aquarelles, his gigantic operations, his intense
love of life, might one and all be powerless to
keep him in his place, and then !  all the
magnitude and miht of the House of Othmar
would depend solely and entirely on one
capricious and unstable young man, who only
cared for a Greek poet or a German opera !

On these melancholy days when he remembered
this, he voluntarily deprived himself of
his burgundy, and ate only of two dishes.

He was much attached to Othmar, but he
was impatient of him. He was annoyed by
what he looked upon as his crotchets and

caprices ; he was irritated by the unconcealed
apathy and even scorn with which his nephew
regarded his own superb position in the world.
The dissatisfaction with which the origin of
their House filled the head of it, was to
Baron Fritz almost incomprehensible and whimsical
squeamishness. If he revered anything in
life, it was the tradition of old Marc Othmar
amassing his florins in the half-barbaric city of
Agram.

For aught we know he was a Michigan, a
Eomany,' his nephew had said to him once ;
and he had replied angrily, ' And if he were
a gipsy? Is there blood more ancient? Is
there a people freer ? Is there an intelligence
more complex ? What are the European races
beside the Oriental ? But you know very well
that he was a pure Croat,' he had concluded,
with intolerable impatience of such depreciation
of the founder of their greatness.

Although it had been the habit of his life
to follow and study the minds of men even in
their more secret thoughts, he had no patience
to attempt to understand the caprices of his
nephew's. It was, he thought, that kind of
ingratitude to fate which is almost an insanity ;

the same sort of fractious wilfulness which made
James of Scotland love to wander disguised in
his ow]i towns, and sent Domitian to a plot of
cabbages.

To Baron Fritz the power and might of the
House he belonged to had ever been in the
stead of any other religion, creed, or attachment
; he was not personally an ambitious oran
avaricious man ; he had effaced himself for
his brother's sake, as he still slaved for his
brother's son ; the celebrity of the House of
Othmar, their power, heavy as an elephant's
tread, subtle as an electric current, the magnitude
of the operations which they either
undertook or impeded, the respect with which
Europe regarded them, the weight of their own
smile or frown, all these things were the
very breath of his life to him. He had remained,
and always willingly remained, a subordinate;
he had never resented the superiority
of his elder brother in power and position ; all
he had cared to do was to give his years to the
service and aggrandisement of his race ; he
would have been very astonished if he had
been told that it was in its way, after all, chiefly
a form of sentiment which actuated him.

Between himself and Othmar there was
the affection of consanguinity, but no sympathy
whatever. To the elder man the
younger seemed almost blasphemously mi-worthy
of his heritage : the generosities and
the scruples of such a refine seemed to him
the perverseness of a child. Usually, Othmar
willingly abandoned to him the guidance of
their great argosy, freighted with the gold of
the world, but twice or thrice since his majority
he had interfered when he had considered a
loan immoral or an enterprise corrupt, and had
made his veto, as head of the house, obeyed
forcibly. Those few times had been unpardonable
to the Baron dio had not his eccentric
and quixotic principles.

Affairs are affairs,' he said. ' If you
conduct them according to the follies and
phantasies of the Story of Arthur  adieu.'

'I would willingly say adieu an eternal
adieu,' had retorted Othmar. ' But you have
told me repeatedly that I cannot withdraw my
House from business without causing ruin on
the Bourses of Europe, and dishonouring our
name by annulling and repudiating our engagements.'


Of course you cannot,' had said the Baron,
to whom the mere idea seemed like a preparation
to blow up with dynamite all the mountains
of Europe and of Asia. 'Do you suppose
you can efface such an institution as our
financial existence ? You might as well say
that a sovereign, by dying, could will his
country into non-existence.'

Then as I cannot touch the engagements
of the past, however much I condemn them, I
will at least keep pure the obligations of the
future,' Othmar had answered ; and those
transactions which his more delicate sense of
honour did not allow him to approve he refused
to permit to be undertaken.

Baron Fritz, who had the ordinary financier's
conscience, that is, who would have done
nothing commercially dishonourable, but who
cared not a straw how iniquitous might bethe
results of an operation, so long as it was
legal, clever, and lucrative, was beyond measure
irritated by this occasional interference of one
who was too fine a gentleman, too indolent
a dreamer, to bear any of the frets and burden
of habitual attention to their gigantic operations.
But there was no help for it ; Otho

Othmar was the head of the House, and, what
was a greater o-rief still to his uncle, the
only living one of the name besides himself.
They, who could have given fortunes and position
to a score of younger branches, who could
have had their sons and brothers objects of
power and worship in all the capitals of Europe,
had been so visited by death and destiny that
of them all there only remained the young
man who was Othmar to all the world, and the
old one who was Baron Fritz to his intimate
associates, and Baron Friederich to all the
Bourses.

You should marry, Otho,' said the Baron
to him now.

I have no inclination to do so,' he answered,
and thought of Nadine Xapraxine.

Inclination ! ' exclaimed the other irritably.
What has inclination to do with it ? Is inclination
considered or waited for in the marriages
of princes ? You are a prince in your
own way. If you died tomorrow, your race
would be extinct.'

That would not much matter,' said Othmar.
We have never been conspicuous for anything
except for amassing gold, as a ship's keel

collects barnacles. I suppose I had better
make a will. You shall have everything for
your lifetime, and then it shall all go to the
French Republic, which is the only national
institution I know of that is capable of
muddling away two hundred milliards in a
year, with nothing whatever to show for it
afterwards.'

Baron Fritz made a gesture of irritated
contempt.

'You ought to have had legitimate heirs
ten years ago. You do not belong to yourself.
You have no right to live and die without
raising up posterity.'

I do not see the obligation,' said Othmar,
and I do not care enough about the name,
which you think so very fine, to greatly grieve
over its probable extinction.'

Baron Fritz had heard this often, but he
never heard it freshly without an inward
shudder, such as a religious man feels before
a blasphemy. Othmar, merely as a man,
seemed to him a fanciful dreamer, an unsatisfactory
anomaly, an philosophic thinker,
wdaose theories were always playing the deuce
with his interest, and whose sympathies ran away

with him like half-broken horses. But Othmar,
as the chief of this House, could do no wrong,
and had to be obeyed, even if he rushed on his
own destruction.

You should marry for sake of posterity,'
he reiterated. * You are so happily and exceptionally
situated that you can choose wherever
you please. No living woman would refuse
you. You should seek physical charms forsake
of your offspring and high lineage also ;
the rest is a mere matter of taste.'

The rest is only a trifle ! Only character,
mind, and feeling  the three things which determine
happiness and influence life more than
anything else.*

Baron Fritz made a little gesture of indifference
: ' I imagine anyone hen Sieve would
not err in any of these points. Happiness one
usually finds with the wives of others. Not
that I would discourage you if you be inclined
'

I am not inclined,' said Othmar, brusquely.
I only say that character is never considered
by men and women when they marry ; yet it is
what makes or mars a life. When a marriage
is announced, what is discussed ? The respective

fortunes of those concerned, then their
good looks or their lack of them ; perhaps someone
adds that he is hon garcon, or someone
says sa taille est jolie, or, on the other hand,
they may say he is a fool, or she has ugly feet;
bnt you never hear a word as to their characters,
their sympathies, or their principles. It
is why all marriages are at best but a compromise
between two ill-assorted dispositions.'

Make yours well-assorted,' said Baron
Fritz. ' If you attach so much to character,
let character be your study ; myself, I have
always considered that marriage is a means of
continuing a race, so that it legally can continue
to transmit property ; I have never known
why people imported fine sentiments into a
legal transaction. It is taking a false view of
a social duty to look for personal pleasure out
of it ; indeed, if a man be in love with his wife
he will probably communicate his passion to
her, which is undesirable, because it awakens
her senses, and ultimately leads to her taking
a lover, or lovers, which again introduces uncertainty
into the legal enjoyment and transmission
of property.'

Othmar smiled : ' Eeally, Baron, you are

the most profoundly immoral man I ever met.
You would always, too, subordinate humanity
to property. Ail human actions should, according
to you, only tend to the consolidation
and concentration of fortune ; now, there is no
possible theory of human action more demoralising.'


That is a matter of opinion,' said the
Baron. ' But unless your forefathers had carried
that theory into practice, you would now be
taming wild horses in Croatia, or probably you
Otho Othmar in your entity as you are 
would not exist at all, for certainly your father
would not have wedded with an English aristocrat.'


It is a humiliating reflection,' said Othmar,
that one's existence depended on the accidental
union of two persons ; indeed, I decline
to believe it. I am convinced that the real ego
the impersonal entity which has been called
the soul for want of knoAvins: what to call it,
must have had its own independent existence ;
the envelope it is slipped into is the accident;
let us think so at all events. It is more consoling
than your notion that the entire life of
A. depended on the chance of B. cohabiting

with C. ; and that if B. had wedded D. instead,
A. would never have existed at all, but another
and totally different being would have done so
say Z;

The Baron shrugged his shoulders. Why,
he wondered, why on earth should a man care
about a pre-existence, or a spiritual existence, at
all, who had everything that his heart could
desire in his terrestrial life? He could imagine
that starving poets or hungry theologians
comforted themselves with those fancies, but
Othrnar !

You should have been a Montalembert ora
Lamennais,' he answered, which was a polite
way of saying that he was an imbecile.

Without being either the one or the other,
one may carry into public life the same sort
of honour which even you think incumbent on
one in public life,' said Othmar.

Not at all,' said his relative. ' The code
for one has never been the code for the other.
A man in private life may not send another
man to be slain because it suits his purpose ;
a man in public life, that is, as a war minister
or as an officer commanding-inches may send
ten thousand, fifty thousand, men to certain

slaughter. So has a diplomatist every title to
lie as much as he may need to do in the public
service, but he has no right to deceive his personal
friend in a private matter. This is not
mere casuistry ; it is common-sense. Indeed,
all effective casuistry is based on commonsense.'


The most dangerous casuistry is so, no
doubt,' said Othmar. ' Because when it is so
based it is irresistible in its appeal to egotism.'

I do not know why you use the word
dangerous,' replied the Baron. ' Nothing is so
wholesome as to teach men to take care of
their own interests. If that lesson were universally
understood, there would be neither
paupers or criminals.'

We should have a world of bankers,' said
Othmar. 'With all deference to you, even
that would not be a Millennium.'

The Baron assented with good humour that
it would certainly not be one, since there
would be no investments of any kind possible.


The day was tedious to Othmar. He had
to examine many projects, and append his signature
to many documents, lie had not disappeared

into Central Asi:i for eighteen months
without having brought upon himself the
penalty of inane arrears of affairs. His assent
was merely 7:>ro forms but the formula was
necessary.

He is in love still with Madame Naprax-
fine,' thought his uncle, finding his attention
hard to fix. He was not sorry for that. At
Othmar's age he was sure to be in love with
someone, and the more he was in love the
less likely was he to meddle with the transactions
of the House.

The Baron could be excessively amusing,
and was so this day of his arrival at S. Paramount;
but Othmar would gladly have been
free of his presence. He knew that the old
man would see at a glance, if he and Nadine
JSTapraxine met before him, that time had not
cured him of passion ; and the malice and the
contempt of his uncle were both disagreeable
to him. Moreover, Othmar had been too perpetually
agreed with all his life to be pleased
by the constant enunciation of opinions and
sentiments the reverse of his own. There was
that in the tranquil cynicism of Baron Friedrich
which left him with a sense of moral

nausea. Men, it is true, were not worth much ;
but he could never get accustomed to the calm
manner in which his uncle was habitually ready
to sacrifice all their interests  their bodies, too,
had there been any question of them  to what
he considered advantageous to himself and to
his house in public life and finance.

He did not care for the new Eussian loan,
for the new Turkish loan, for the great naval
dockyards to be made by Germany on the
Baltic, for the railway that was to be driven
along the ancient bed of the Oxus, nor for the
necessities of the empire of Brazil, nor for the
development of Canadian forests. It did not
interest him that such and such a sovereign
would be a cripple Without his help, or such
and such a country as virtually in pawn to
him as though it had been a pledged estate ;
that the assistance of his gold could enable
a Ministry to keep its tenure of office, or
the refusal of it could precipitate a State
into revolution ; to Baron Fritz it was like
holding the reins of the universe, but to
Othmar himself it was excessively dull work.
The heir of four generations of money-lenders,
he was absolutely indifferent to the immense

VOL. I. s

power wliicli lay in the stroke of his pen ;
the genius of finance was inherited by him,
though dormant in him ; even his imcle did
justice to the accuracy of his vision, to the certainty
of his instinct ; but it was genius unused ;
he had no taste to employ its capacities.
Europe was as indifferent to him as a mound
of clay.

'We only do mischief, unmitigated mischief,'
he asserted very often. ' Look at the
Canal of Suez ; it has only bred wars and
pretexts for wars, and will probably embroil
England and France for the next century, 
until indeed India shall have become Eussian,
or the African negro have avenged Abd-el-
Nadir. Then again take the Panama project :
it will set Great Britain and the United States
at each other's throats like two bull-dogs.'

You are enough to make your father rise
from his grave,' said Baron Fritz.

It is only aristocrats who do that,' returned
Othmar. * The financier sleeps sound on the
remembrance of his own virtues  and loans.'

The memory of his father was bitter to
him ; he could not forget the injury done to
him in his earliest youth by subjecting him

to the charms and the corruptions of Sara
Vernon.

You must marry, and then you Avill see
things differently,' his uncle insisted, reverting
to the simplicity of reiteration.

What a cruel thing was destiny ! Thousands
of men who had not a crust of bread begat
legitimate offsprings in the most reckless and
profuse manner ; and the one man for whom
lawful heirs were an absolute necessity and
duty obstinately neglected his obligations to
family and to the world.

It was possible, even probable, that the last
of the Othmars would remain the last of his
race.

Marry for me,' said Othmar. ' I will give
all we possess to any cousins you may give
me, and keep only enough myself to live peaceably
in Arabia Felix. I have always wished
to live there ; the climate is divine ; and,
after all, there is nothing that is of so much
consequence as climate.'

You will always jest ! '

Most people say I am too serious. I am
not jesting at all. We have all a sort of superstition
that we must live in Europe, but it is

8 2

only a superstition. There is a great deal finer
weather elsewhere, and without fine weather
life is intolerable.'

Have you never seen a woman you would
marry ? ' asked Baron Fritz.

Perhaps I have,' said Othmar, who never
lied. ' But never one I could marry.'

'Ah!  someone else's wife! That is just
like you. If she were not unattainable she
would have no more attraction than anyone
else. You are so whimsical.'

I hope not. I dislike whimsical people.
They are always asking for the windows to be
shut, or imagining that there is a drainpipe
open. Oh, some day I may marry. I do not
pledge my future. But I have no inclination
to marriage, and you will confess that you
preach what you do not practise.'

I am seventy-one and you are thirty-two,'
said Baron Fritz ; ' I should have married fifty
years ago if I had been as you are, the head
of the House.'

Curse the House ! ' said Othmar, though he
was a man who never used any oaths, great or
small. But it seemed to him that the House
of Othmar was for ever on his shoulders like

Sindbad's burden ; that he could do nothing
freely as other men did ; that go where he
would he could never wholly escape from the
mephitic acid which adulation and importunity
exhale, and could never gain that simplicity of
existence which, precisely because it was denied
to him, seemed to him the chief soot on earth.
You speak as if the Othmars had been
Plantagenet or Comment ! ' he continued. ' It
is not quite two centuries ago that the world
did not even know that a Croat horse-dealer
bore that name ! The last time I was at
Agram, I looked into the archives of the city ;
nobody ever did so ; they were crabbed and
hard to decipher ; but I passed a day over
them when it was raining and blowing so hard
that there was not a soul abroad in the streets
except the sentries. In the municipal documents
for the year 1730 I found an account of
a famine which had been the result of floods
such as we have seen in our own day, for
science, after all, makes little way against
natural catastrophes. It was during this famine,
when every grain of wheat was worth
treble its weight in gold, that your hero Marc
Othmar made his first great cows. He had

amassed money before, but this was the grand
conception which first largely enriched him.
He had bought enormously in corn, foreseeing
a wet season and bad harvests. He had
more than he had hoped for  he had the
whole country under water. He had almost a
monopoly of grain. In those days government
aid could not come by steam, and besides,
Croatia had just then no government. In
these records it is stated that upwards of fortyfive
thousand persons, chiefly women and
children, died of starvation ; and all the while
they were dying Marc Othmar shut up his
grain and only sold it sack by sack, at an average
rate of a death a bushel. You find that
admirable ; I do not. I confess, ever since I
put these facts together out of the fragments of
public history, it has seemed to me as if there
were an earthy smell about all our money ;
you know the lungs of people who die starved
always do smell like decaying mould. It is
pure fancy  I am quite aware of that. But
even, putting fancy out of the question, I do
not see anything heroic about the figure of our
founder. He is not Hugh Lupus or Godfrey
de Bouillon.'

Baron Fritz's patience had scarcely endured
the strain upon it.

I never heard the story. I believe you
have invented it,' he said irritably. ' If it be
true, we have no explanation, so we cannot
form a correct judgment. At the most, accepting
it as you relate it, no more was done
then by Marc Othmar than every farmer or
peasant proprietor in Europe and America
does whenever he gets a chance. Not so much
as was done by Ferdinand de Lesseps when
he sacrificed the fellahs to make his Egyptian
Canal. You cannot conduct any trade on
abstract principles or aesthetic moralities. You
must buy cheap and sell dear, or commerce
falls to the ground, and the whole superstructure
of society falls with it. As the lawyer
cannot refuse to conduct a case because he
disapproves of the morality of it, so a financier
cannot let pass a favourable operation
because he may not approve entirely of its
scope ; all he has to examine are its wisdom and
utility. When once you enter the region of
motives and of principles, all is confusion. No
two men have the same views as to what is
right ; you must proceed on broader lines than

those of fanciful ethics. For instance, nothing
is more clearly immoral than the marriage of
two diseased persons, but the priest or the
mayor who should refuse to perform the
ceremonies demanded of him because he conceived
that the bodily health of the people
came before him was unsatisfactory would be
clearly everlasting the boundaries of his functions,
which are limited to the consideration of
simply legal obstacles. So, a man of business
who once concerns himself with the vague
moralities of his speculations is lost ; all he has
to occupy himself with is their solvency, their
legality, and their probabilities of success or
failure. Marc Othmar, no doubt, regarded his
investments in corn in that purely practical
light.'

For a very clever man as you are,' returned
Othmar, ' you are curiously unconscious of what
a satire your theories are on all that you most
admire. I am as entirely convinced as you
can be that Marc Othmar never gave a thought
to the twenty-five thousand people who starved
to death while his corn was shut up in granaries
and barges ; all the difference between us is,
that you think this singleness of eye for his

own interest was heroic, and I think it was
not so,  that it was even as near true hellish
wickedness as humanity can go.'

There is neither wickedness nor virtue in
questions of finance,' said Baron Friederich,
with distress at his nephew's obtuseness.

There is certainly no virtue,' said Othmar.

'Neither wickedness nor virtue,' repeated
the Baron. ' They are pure abstractions, like
political economy. To talk of the immorality
of a speculation is like talking of the vices of a
rock-crystal. There is only one sin in a financial
operation ; it sins if it be unsound.'

Financial morality,' then said Othmar, ' has
at least this advantage over social morality,
that it is very much simplified ! '

It is simple as your stable's doctrines,'
replied the Baron. ' If a horse be sound, he is
a good horse ; if he be not sound, he is a
screw ; nothing can be simpler. And the
moment that a man begins to confuse himself
with asking any more complex questions than
this one, " Is it sound . "  whether he engage ina
great operation of finance, or whether he be
only buying a roadster, he will be inevitably
bewildered with his own multiform requirements

and will fall into the hands of mere persuasive
sharpers.'

I can buy a horse,' said Othmar, ' but I
will leave finance to you.'

Not always,' said Baron Fritz, grimly,
with vivid recollections of more than one occasion
on which his nephew had interfered with
a peremptory veto to prevent some contemplated
operation of which the morality was
more doubtful than the expediency. The occasions
had been rare indeed ; but they had left
an ineffaceable soreness on the mind of the
elder man ; nay, he would scarcely have forgiven
them had it not been that his devotion to
Olio as to the head of the House had something
of the irrational and patient loyalty which
the Eussian nation renders blindly to its
unseen Tzar.

As for Othmar himself, he was too impatient
of his uncle's laxity of principle and conscience
to do full justice to the fine qualities
which accompanied these.

Those huge stone palaces whose portals
bore the magic name of Othmar were sacred to
Baron Fritz as his temples to a Greek His
nephew never passed through the great doors of

any one of them without a sense of impatience,
of distaste, without a remembrance of the twenty-five
thousand people who had died of hunger
in Croatia whilst Marc Othmar was building
up his piles of ducats and florins. The very
homage with which he was himself met within
their walls irritated him. He thought of all the
debasing worship the earth has seen the worship
of riches was the most corrupt. ' If I were a
leper they would kiss my ulcers so long as my
hand could sign a cheque,' he thought. After
all, when Marc Othmar had used up human
lives in the furnace of his speculations he caused
up material which was but of little worth.

Yet despite the disdain which human nature
cannot do otherwise than awaken in those who
are the objects of its adulation if they keep
their senses clear amidst the incense fumes, his
heart was empty.

You have people here to-night P ' asked
the Baron, a little later, his vigilant eyes perceiving
the preparations which were being
made in the little theatre attached to the
chateau.

To-morrow night,' answered Othmar. 'A
small dinner ; I hope you will remain for it.

And as Balzac, k?embrich. and other good
singers are at Nice disposable, we shall have
some music afterwards and a few people ; for
that you will not care.'

The Napraxines are here ? ' enquired his
uncle, with a little smile.

Othmar was annoyed to feel that he changed
colour despite himself, as he answered in the
affirmative.

Have you seen her ? ' said Friederich
Othmar, carelessly. ' How do you find her ?
Maladies as usual ? '

There is no woman living less maladies'
said Othmar, with some irritation. ' She is glad
to make the care of her health a pretext when
she is disinclined for the world ; that is all.'

Ah, indeed ? ' said the elder man. ' All
great rulers are allowed to be ill at their own
convenience. Will she be ill or well tomorrow
night ? '

Time will show,' replied Othmar, in a tone
which closed the subject.

CHAPTER X.

It was a tiny cliurcli which bore the name of
S. Cecilia at S. Pharamond, and was perched
on an ove-covered knoll, with the rolling
woods of the chateau d'Othmar at its base
and the gardens of Milloo on its right. Ecole
Sandroz and a few other families of the petite
culture gathered there on Sundays and holy
days ; but the great people of Milloo, with their
household, had their own private chapel, and
the friends to whom Othmar had lent his house
had never troubled themselves to find their
way to the little whitewashed, wind-blown sanctuary
and the lowly presbytery that leaned up
against its south wall.

Othmar himself, who had a score of ecclesiastics
in a score of places looking to him
for support, had hardly known that this little
church and its old purblind peasant-born cure
were upon the confines of his estate. He had
paid every year a large sum for the maintenance

of S. Pharamoncl, as for that of each of
his houses and estates, but he had never examined
the details of the expenditure. The
advantage of an immense fortune is that you
can leave all such matters to your secretaries.
He paid them more heed than many would
have done because of the views he entertained
on the duties of saving other people from
temptation ; but S. Pharamond, with all its
luxuries, elegancies, gardens, carriages, and
conservatories, was only to him as a mere
cottage, a mere toy. He had, indeed, almost
forgotten that he had owned it, until, beating
up the Bay of Genoa in a storm-tossed and
almost disabled vessel, he had suddenly remembered
that somewhere on this coast which slid
away in the dusk to the westward he had a
harbour and a quay all his own if he chose to
go thither.

The little church was ugly, poor, and had
been built since the Ee volution ; all that redeemed
it was a great climbing rose which
covered the whole of its front, and was even
flinging audacious branches upwards to the
cross upon the roof. In summer the rose
made the Httle plain square place a glory of

pink bloom. Inside, there were a few deal
benches, a few bad prints, a humble little altar,
and some pewter candlesticks ; the presbytery
was equally as bare.

The old vicar lived with one servant as old
as himself ; he toddled out amongst the farms,
and was scouted and scowled at by some of the
peasants, petted and welcomed by others. He
did no harm, and was quite happy if one of his
parishioners gave him a basket of figs or a dish
of seakale ; he could almost have counted his
flock on his fingers. The men about there
were very radical and hard-headed ; they were
all small proprietors, who cursed Milloo and S.
Pharamond all the year round, though neither
the villa nor the chateau did them the slightest
harm. On the contrary, the stewards of both
the Due de Yannes and Othmar had orders to
give away any rare seeds, aid in any irrigation-works,
or contribute to any need that there
might be in the neighbourhood. But the Due
was a duke and peer of France, and Othmar
was an archimillionake ; the petite culture hated
the sight of their gilded bronze gates and
their glittering high-pitched roofs.

It is for you that we pay taxes ! ' snarled

one of them once to the Due che Vannes, who
laughed and answered :

Oh, my friend, if we compared notes I
think you would find that it is I who pay them
for you and yours. I have not the slightest
objection to do so, only do not let us misrepresent
matters.'

But they did not want logic, and they
hated the steep shining roofs and the gates
with the gilded scroll work. What they did
not hate was Yseulte de Valogne ; all countess
though she was, they pardoned her that defect
because she had always remained for them la
petite de Nicolee. They understood that she
was to be sacrificed to the pride of her relatives
; that because she was poor, so poor, she
was to be refused all the joys of her youth and
her sex and surrendered to the Church that
she might not offend the grandeur of her family
by making a portionless marriage. This, which
they had learned, with many exaggerations of
its enormity from Nicolee and from the servants
of Milloo, gave her the halo of a martyr in their
eyes ; she was sacrificed to the noblesse, and
that fact was enough to make her sacred to
them even though she belonged to the detested

order herself, and had not a little of its hauteur.
Besides, her tenderness to their old people, the
little gifts she made at the convent and brought
to their little ones and their women, her intrepidity
in cases of sickness in those winters
when she was alone at Milloo  a mere child, but
witli the courage of giants, as Nicolee loved to
tell  all these, joined to her personal elegance,
which made her as unlike themselves as the
orchids in Othmar hothouses were unlike the
sweet peas and the lavender growing under
their peach trees, had combined to make of the
last Comtesse de Alone the idol of t\mt petite
culture which, with few exceptions, loathed and
execrated the brilliant idlers who rode and drove
out of the gates of Milloo, and carried their
light laughter, their painted fans, their blazing
jewels, their grace and their luxuries, out on to
the illuminated terraces, under the palms and
the araucarias, amidst the lamps and the music,
regardless of the people in the distant huts and
houses on the surrounding hills who, rising to
their work, as they went to their beds, swore
savagely against them with all the unchanged
rancorous class-hatred of the Terror still alive
in them and unsatisfied.

VOL. I. T

'But, Nicolee,' the girl said often to her
foster-mother, ' if there were no rich people, no
great people, who would buy your "primeurs
your December peas, your January asparagus
? '

We should eat them ourselves,' said Nicolee,
sternly.

You might do that now ; but I do not think
that eating them would pay you for all they
cost you,' said Yseulte, not very sure of her
ground, and therefore timid in treading it.

We should not grow them ; there would
be no need to grow them,' said Nicolee, obstinately.
' Everybody would have his cabbage
in his pot if there were not those pestilent
aristocrats and rich folks.'

But you might plant cabbages now,' insisted
her petite. ' Why should you not plant
cabbages everywhere now if you like ? Only
you always say it is only the primer that pay
well.'

Oh, ina mie, you belong to them, so you
defend them ! ' grumbled her foster-mother,
finding the argument go against her. ' And
what are they going to do with you ? Cut off
all your beautiful hair, and cram you between

four stone walls all your life, because it suits
their pride to get rid of you ! '

One cannot live better than in God's
service,' said Yseulte, with a passing blush.

Oh, yes, one can,' muttered Nicolee, ' when
one is sixteen years old and has a face like
yours ; one could have a gallant lover, and a
loyal lord, a home of one's own, and children
one after another at one's breast.'

A colour like that of the red winter roses
which she was binding up for the Nice markets
came into the girl's cheeks.

I am quite happy to dedicate my life to
our Mother and her poor,' she said, in that tone
which always awed and silenced Nicolee. ' All
that I fear is, not to be worthy. There have
been holy women of my race. I may never
content them as they watch me from their
places at God's right hand.'

The coarse blunt fashion of speech of her
foster-mother, and the crude class-hatreds and
political animosities which Nicolee had imbibed
from her husband often pained and offended
the delicacy and the pride of the girl ; but the
rough woman loved her, was almost the only
creature that did love her, save some of the

T 2

younger children in the convent ; and Seule
bore with her fauns with that indulgent affection
which is not blind, but patient and ever
forgiving.

She spoke in simplicity and sincerity ; she
had been so drilled to behold her only future
in the religious life, that she prayed night and
day to be worthy of such election ; and if a
thrill of longing for unknown freedom, for unimaginable
joys, sometimes came over her she
loyally stifled it ere it could grow to any
strength. From her babyhood she had been
taught to consider herself consecrated to the
Church, and that knowledge had always kept
her a little apart from others, made her more
serious, more sensitive, more meditative, than
her age usually is.

And, to be sure, if there be any up there
who do know, it is a crying shame that they do
not interfere,' muttered her foster-mother, only
half abashed. But Yseulte did not hear her ;
she had let the roses lie on her lap, her hands
were motionless, her eyes were looking faraway,
farther than the snow which crowned the
distant mountains ; she was thinking of that
saint by whom her childhood had been sheltered

; could it indeed be that so great a love
as her grandmother's had been had perished
utterly, had gone whither it knew nothing, saw
nothing, had no power to warn or save ? If
it were so, she was alone indeed. But

Nay, do not think of them,' said Nicolee,
roughly ; ' what is dead is dead, my sweet ; be
it a pig or be it a princess, when the life is out
the sense is out with it ; it rots, but it does
not wake.'

Hush ! ' said the girl, with a little frown
and a sense of pain, as if she had heard some
foul irreverence. The dead were all she had
to care for ; half her young life was passed in
thinking of them, in praying for them, in
wondering if they approved that which she did.
Christ will give you your dower,' her grandmother
had said often to her, a little 
child, who had vaguely understood
that her future was pledged to heaven ; and
that she must never be fractious, or noisy, or
sullen, or give way to appetite or mischief as
other children did who were less honoured. It
had made her neither affected nor hypocritical ;
only pathetically doubtful of herself and capable
of repressing her naturally buoyant spirits with

an incredible patience wliicliwas almost heroism,
but went always unrewarded.

Faiel was a part of the old world of Bretagne,
where the land is green and deeply wooded,
and the days are misty and soft and still; it
les inland, and has no sight of the sea; it is
traversed by narrow roads sunk down low between
moss-grown walls of verdure ; it seems all
covered up with moss and ferns and boughs;
there is always moisture in the air and there are
almost always clouds in the sky, but it is a
sweet, tender, if mournful country, and in the
late-arriving spring becomes a very bower of
flowers. .

In the heart of this green country the
ancient village of Faiel held the equally ancient
convent of the Holy Ladies of St. Anne,
with its long grey stone walls, its steep shining
metal roofs, and its high belfry with its cross
of gilded brass towering above the low quaint
cottages which crept humbly up beneath it
many centuries ago. The foundation owed
its origin to Anne of Bretagne herself, and year
after year, century after century, undisturbed
by wars or revolutions, and reached by any
change of thought or manners the pious ladies

of Faiel, in their habits of black and white,
had reared the young daughters of the Breton
nobility and gentry in the ways of God and in
such secular learning as seemed not too profane.
The community was severe in its rules
and austerely simple in all its customs ; but
the children were happy if not gay ; the green,
leafy, silent country was between them and the
world, the sisters were kind and gentle, the
young girls murmured together, joyously, unreproved,
like young swallows chirping under the
eaves in midsummer. This holy house in pious
Morbihan was wholly unlike those fashionable
convents of Paris, and near it, where all the
pomps and vanities of the world find their
way, and its jealousies and its rivahdes fret and
fume in miniature mimicry. The Dames de Este.
Anne had all the primitive faiths, the unblemished
loyalties, the devout beliefs in tradition
of the Middle Ages ; they taught the history of
France from religious instead of secular records,
and the history of the saints from the Golden
Legend ; they worked silver lilies on white
banners, and in their chapel every day a Mass
was said for Henri Cinq. Their little maidens
became under their hands simple, earnest.

grave, and most innocent and truthful creatures,
ignorant, no doubt, in many things, but possessing
a perfect courage and a beautiful candour ;
such maidens as in the old days, from the
Combat des Trente to Quiberon, had become
the wives and mothers of the Breton
seigneurie, and had, if need were, defended
a castle and headed a sally of men-at-arms in
the holy cause of their duke or of their king ;
women like the arum lilies that covered the
damp green earth in their native woods ; women
whose eyes look at us still, serious and serene,
from the gold blazonries of illuminated missals,
where their miniatures have been painted
beneath their scutcheons and their crowns.

Of these children, when they had passed
from the gates of Faiel for the last time, some
went to pass all their years in the small secluded
chateaux or the dull stone-bulk towns
of the seashore or the interior ; some, finding a
wider flight, a bolder fate, went into the life of
the world and lived that life. But wherever
they went, whatever they became, none of them
ever wholly forgot Faiel; all of them when
they bore children said, as they looked on their
little daughters, ' They shall go to the Dames

de Ste. Anne ; ' so that generation after generation
came to the great Gothic gateway, and
passed within and dwelt there for eight or ten
peaceful years ; and the sisters, though death
made changes amidst them, yet seemed always
the same.

Yseulte, who was a fanciful child like most
of those who have a lonely childhood, used
to believe that they were like that woman of
the time of Clovis who learned the secret of
eternal life from listening to the singing of the
forest birds.

She used to look through the fjratino- down
the deep green shade of the woods without,
and think, ' That is why they hive so long, why
they are always content.'

One day an old peasant, who was called a
witch in Faiel, saw her looking so and heard
her say something of her thoughts to her companion,
and the old crone shook her head
wisely, ' Do not wish to live long ; wish to live
so that you have all heaven in one hour ; it is
not the birds, nor is it the woods, nor is it the
saints, that will give you that.'

What does she mean ? ' said Yseulte.

'In the village they say she has been a

wicked woman,' said the girl who was beside
her.

Yseulte pondered often on the mysterious
words, but she could never understand them.

At Faiel her days and years went by without
any sorrow, if without any pleasure save
such as youth and perfect health and willingness
to accomplish all allotted tasks can bring with
them. She always wore grey or black or
white ; no colours were ever seen, no ornaments
were ever allowed within the sacred walls. She
was regarded as certain to enter the religious
life. ' Til seras des notes said the nuns so
often to her that before she was ten years old
she had shown so imbued with the idea that
she had never dreamed of resisting such a destination.
Her life was so entirely simple, in a
way so barren, that the spmtual world assumed
a proportion in it which would have been
morbid had not the high courage and bodily
healthfulness of her resisted the gloom which
those who had to do with her deemed most
fitting to the loneliness of her lot. She came of
a race of gay nobles, of reckless soldiers, of
high-handed seigneurs, and some instincts of
their courage, of their temper, of their imprudence,

stirred in her now and then beneath the
cahii of cloistral habit and the spirituality of
her natural temperament.

Do you think the daughter of Gui de
Valogne will ever be a saint ? ' the Due de
Yannes often said to his wife. He thought
that blood would out even beneath the coif
of a Carmelite. His Avise replied that the
Valogne had always kept their women pure,
if at the sword's point, and that amongst them
there had been more than one canonised ;
besides, she added, Yseulte was a child both
grave and good ; she would never know the
world or its temptations; she would live and
die as a lily did in a convent garden.

The Due shrugged his shoulders :

She has her father's blood in her,' lie said,
and he would have suited no cloister but
Eoissy or Medmenham.'

He believed in very few things, but his one
belief was his conviction that the bias of a
race goes with it as do its diseases or its excellences.
Most racing men are implicit believers
in hereditary influence, and the Due, who had
bred winners at Chantilly and at Ascot, did
not credit that the daughter of Gui de Valogne

would contentedly become a Ste. Catherine ora
Soeur Eose.

Of course you may shut her perforce m
a religious house ; so might you shut her in a
coffin. To be sure, the one murder is legal and
the other would not be so,' he said, with some
ill-humour, the night after Othmar noticed his
young cousin with her long black gloves, her
stately curtsy, her sash a Enfant, and her
beautiful figure, which had the slimness of a
child and the promise of a goddess.

 I believe you are almost in love with her
yourself,' said the Duchess.

I wonder no one else is wholly,' he answered,
with petulance ; and he wrote to his
jeweller in the Eue de la Paix for a locket, a
girl's locket ; something with pearls. He thought
even a Mother Superior could hardly object to
pearls.

Yseulte, all unconscious of the perilous
honour projected for her by her cousin's lord,
passed the whole day up at the little church,
arranging the flowers which Othmar had given
her in the morning, and others which his men,
by his orders, had brought thither in the forenoon.
She was happier than she had been since

her grandmother had died. A warm human
interest had come suddenly into the monotony
and solitude of her existence. She worked at
the decoration of the little place with ardour
and delight. She had never before possessed
such flowers as these ; the woods had yielded
all those which had ever decked the altar of
the chapel at Faiel. She had only seen such
gorgeous blossoms as these in the glass-house
at Milloo, where she would no more have
dreamed of gathering them than of wearing her
cousin's diamonds.

'He shall see how beautiful it looks tomorrow,'
she thought with each blossom that
she added, each leaf she touched. That he
would come she never doubted ; a promise,
ever such a little one, was so sacred to herself
that for any pledge to be forgotten would have
seemed to her quite impossible.

The old vicar came and went, the sacristan
and the housekeeper stood and chattered and
told her for the hundredth time all their household
troubles ; the gay sunshine streamed in
past the open door and through the dulled grey
glass of the small Windows, a goat trotted up
the aisle and nibbled at the bay boughs which

she had tied together. The morning passed like
a pleasant dream ; it seemed not December to
her but May. She was but a child, and for
once the weight of her future fell off her young
shoulders. She laughed,  softly, because she
sat on the altar steps,  but she laughed. ' God
is so good,' she thought, in the simple sincerity
of her glad gratitude.

You wall let me sing, my reverend, at all
the offices ? ' she said to the old man when she
had finished her welcome labours and stood
with him within the stone porch whilst the sun
was setting.

Surely, my child,' he said willingly. ' It
does me good to hear your voice, and I think
it must even be pleasant to the angels too.'

She went happily along the uneven little
path which led down the hill milder great olive
trees and warm evening sunset skies to Milloo.
Her feet went so rapidly that the maid whose
duty it was to attend her out of doors could ill
keep pace with her. Her heart was so light ;
she had the vision of the beautiful flowers
always before her eyes, of the altar which she
had made like a garden. It mattered nothing
to her that when she entered the house she was

met by a reprimand, that she found her simple
supper cold, that her little cousins were
malicious, quarrelsome, unkind ; all those were
trifles. She bore them with perfect patience,
and with never a word of harsh reply ; and she
went to her bed and slept soundly, dreaming of
roses and lilies, and S. Cecilia, and of a world
of angels who leaned on the sunbeams as on
golden spears, and looked doAvn on her and
smiled.

She was up long before the first gleam of
coming day lightened the eastward seas. No
one ever forbade her going to the church as
often as she chose ; they deemed it in unison
with her future vocation. She had attached herself
to this rude, lonely, little place inthe winters
which she had passed there under the charge
of Ecole Sandroz. Her cousin had said once
that it would be better if she attended instead
the offices of the house chapel, but she had
not insisted, and the child, who had a ceram
obstinacy in her affections, had persevered in
her loyalty to the parish church under its
silvery mist of olives.

This morning her foster-mother was in
waiting to accompany her. The cold was

keen in the greyness of the dawn ; the sun,
which at noon would vivify the winter landscape
to summer-like warmth, was still hidden
in the nether world, the earth and the sea were
dark, the stars still lingered in the shadowy
skies.

What folly, petite ! ' muttered Nicolee,
who had her lanthorn, ' to get up out of your
bed to go and sing an ave ! If it were to pack
a crate of oranges there would be some sense ! '

Hush, please,' said Yseulte gently. ' Perhaps
grandee hears.'

The memory of the old Marquise always
touched and silenced the irreligious grumbling
of Nicolee. She said nothing more, but toiled
on stoutly, her lanthorn twinkling amongst the
rough grass, white with passing frost.

The child would be best in her bed,' she
thought ; ' but there is one thing,  she never
takes cold. One would like to think the saints
had a care of her, but that is all rubbish ; even
our mayor says so now, and he is such a
dunderhead, Avhat he cannot stomach nobody
can.'

Still Nicolee, who came to Mass for her sake,
though the good woman in lier soul hated the

bigots, the black beetles, of the church, held
on her way up the hill, stumbling over the
roots of the old olives ; it pleased the petite
that she should come, and after all it could dono
harm.

Eager, proud, joyous  more joyous she
feared than was meet for the sanctity of the hour
and the errand  Yseulte led her into the church
as the first pale light of daybreak spread itself
over the earth.

Now you will see how beautiful it is ! '
she murmured to Nicol.

Alas, the fair garden she had made and left
at twilight was a ruin now ! Where she had
caused the metal and the wood and the stone
to bloom as with the blossoms of Paradise,
there were only poor pale yellow withered
things colourless as ashes !

The frost of the night had stolen the glory
from the flowers as the hand of the Church
would strike the youth from her life and leave
it hard and dumb as a stone. The blossoms
had died of cold like little children lost in the
snow, like bright butterflies beaten down and
drowned in a storm of hail.

A low pathetic cry of grief escaped her as

VOL. I. u

lie saw the lovely things, wliicli she so ignorantly
and innocently had slain, hanging their
folded petals in the chill glimmer of the early
day as the limbs of infants hang in death.

Her 'eyes filled with hot quick tears that
ran down her cheeks.

Oh, look ! Oh, look ! ' she cried piteously.

What could you expect, fkiote said Nicolee
with rough sympathy, ' if you bring hothouse
flowers from under their glass . Our
nights are cold my man said last night it was
two below zero by the mercury tube in our
wall. Do not cry, mignonne ; you could not
help it ; you did not think of it ; children
never do think. But bay and laurel ad all
those common shrubs are best fit to stand the
cold of the church. These things are only
aristocrats.'

Nicolee checked herself; she remembered
the Marquise de Creusacc, With the frost of
poverty and cruel loss upon her, meeting misfortune
with serene courage and unchanging
dignity ; her comparison, she saw, halted and
failed.

Yseulte did not hear ; she was thinking
piteously, * And I did so want him to see

how beautiful it all looked through his kindness
! '

She was quite sure that Othmar would come
to one office or another during the day. She
was ashamed to be so occupied with this one
thought when the drone of the acolyte was
chanting in monotonous sing-song the opening
words of the Mass ; but it was stronger than
herself. She thought of nothing else, to lier
own surprise and confusion ; she was wholly
unable to keep her mind to the holy offices of
the hour ; for the first time, the sonorous Latin
words failed to carry her soul with them ; she
was glancing while she knelt at the closed
rickety door, she was wondering whilst she
sang the 'Agnus Dei,' would he come? She
had taken such infinite pains with the flowers,
and now all their beauty was gone !  they
were only faded, helpless-looking melancholy
wrecks of themselves, disfiguring the altar
rather than lending it grace and glory.

Pauvre petite ! ' thought Nicolee, fingering
her beads, and bending her stiff' knees from
habit. ' The frost will come just like that to
her, and nobody will care. Often have I a
mind to go up to Milloo and tell them it is a

tj2

ne, a vile shame ; but they would not care,
they would have me turned out for an old madwoman.'


The church was very dark ; the few lights
there were did not dissipate the shadows of the
dawn ; the clear melodious voice of Yseulte rose
in the gloom as a nightingale's does in the
lovelier dusk of a midsummer daybreak.

All her heart thrilled out in it, and when
the last notes sank to silence there was a
tremor as of tears in them.

Ecole's heart swelled too as she heard, half
with pain, half with rage.

I would sooner she were singing '' dodo',
Infant dor' ! " by her baby's cradle,'
thought this heathen.

She attended every office of the church
during the next twelve hours, but Othmar
came not to one of them. With Vespers all hope
of seeing him there  such a vague, innocent,
half-conscious hope as it was  had perished
quite, like the orchids on the altar.

The day was over : the church had once
more no light except that of its twinkling
candles ; the peasants shuffled to their feet and
clattered out over the stones ; Nicolee began to

chatter to the maid ; the old vicar had tottered
into the sacristy and was puling off his vestments
; the last office was done ; the butterfly
orchids were dying in the stench of the sputtering
candle wicks ; the acolyte  a ploughboy
in a short linen tunic which showed his hobnailed
boots  began to put the wicks out with
a brass extinguisher fixed at the end of a long
stick ; she thought she would never bring
flowers there any more  it was cruel  they
withered and faded, and who could tell what
they might suffer ? She had never remembered
that before.

The flowers had died in the service of the
church ; so would she. It had seldom seemed
hard before.

While the two women chattered in low
tones of the doings of Milloo, she turned quickly
back to the altar-steps and knelt down there
and said one last prayer confusedly, conscious
that she had been at fault all through the Mass
in thinking of other thugs than the holy
services in which she had taken part.

She rose, with the tears in her eyes, and
went out through the little dark aisle between
the two women, leaving the poor lost flowers

in a confused and shadowy mass upon the altar
until dawn, to be tossed away and thrust out
under the sacristan's broom to the dust-heap.
Othmar had not come.

He was sittings at his own table, with the
Princess JSTapraxine at his right hand.

The girl could see the lighted windows of
his chateau as she walked down under the
olives through the dusky furrows, already
dotted with blades of corn, the women still
chattering as they came behind her, the woods
of Milloo black under the moon, the stars shining,
a distant watchdog driving tonsure.

You are late, ]petites said her foster-mother,
kissing her hand at the door of the
house. ' But it will not matter ; they are
all dining at Count Othmar's ; if no one of
those cats of gouvernantes tell the Duchesse, she
will be none the wiser.'

There is nothing to conceal,' cried Yseulte
a little coldly. ' My cousin knows that I go
out to Vespers as well as Mass. Good night.'

She kissed her nurse on the cheek, and
went up the staircase of Milloo. Her heart
had contracted with a sort of pang as she
heard the idle words, 'They are all dining at

Count Othmar's.' She did not wonder that
he had not invited her ; no one invited her
anywhere ; she was a schoolgirl now, and
would be a nun later on ; she had nothing
to do with the world, and yet her heart ached
a little.

She did not touch the coffee and the cakes
that her maid brought her. She sat at the
window of her own little room, and looked
every now and then out into the chilly night
and across the moonlit landscape to the towers
of S. Pharamond. There were points of light
of all colours sparkling in the darkness round
the chateau. They were the lamps of his
gardens, which were illuminated down to the
very edge of the sea. She felt a great longing
to cry like a little child ; but she would not
yield to it. Only two great tears rolled slowly
down her cheeks. She knew that she had
been very foolish to expect him at the church ;
only he had said that he would come !

CHAPTER XI.

A FEW mornings later, after his noonday breakfast,
Alain de Vannes sauntered out into the
rose gardens of his wife, having seen there the
figure of his wife's young cousin in her demise
grey dress with the cape of sable, which he
was just then in the mood to think the prettiest
female garb in the world. He went up to
her with easy and good-humoured courtesy, as
became her kinsman and her host.

'My cousin,' he said tenderly, 'you have
no trinkets and pretty things, as a little lady of
your years should have. I believe there are
all that are left of the Valogne jewels waiting
for you in strong coffers, but meantime here
is a little bird that will whisper to you pretty
things if you will listen to him. You may
wear a dove, you know, at the convent itself.
It is the bird of the Holy Spirit.'

And with that he gave her what he had
telegraphed for from Paris, a locket of blue

enamel rimmed with pearls, and a dove, made
of pearls, flying on it ; it hung from a thick
gold chain.

She was so astonished that she could not
speak.

The Due watched her with amusement.
Pardieu ! ' he thought, ' it is much more
entertaining to give to the ingenue than to the
belle petite. What wonder, what delight, wdiat
innocent gratitude I  and the others only box
your ears if the diamonds be not big enough or
the emeralds do not please them. Eeally weare
fools.'

Yseulte meanwhile had not spoken yet ;
what moved her so intensely was not the gift
of the medallion itself, splendid though it was,
but the idea that anyone had had so much
remembrance of her. She lead scarcely had
more notice than a careless bow or a brief
honour ' from her cousin's husband in all her
life, and now, he brought her this magnificent
present ! And yet, how much sooner she would
have had Othmar remember to go and hear
her sing !

Well, mignonne,' said the Due gaily.
You look as if you were not sure whether you

were in earth or in heaven. We are not, when
we look at you.'

It is most good of you ; it is most beautiful,'
she said, with hesitation. ' That you should
have thought of me is so kind ; but I fear
I ought not to wear it ; you know in two years'
time I am to enter the Carmelite communion.'

Nonsense ! It is the bird of the Holy
Spirit,' said de Yannes, with an ambiguous
smile. ' I think you may wear it when you
are an abbess  if ever you be an abbess. Ah,
my child, it is a cruel thing to doom you
to the religious life ; only ugly women should
go there, and you are so handsome, Villette 
you will be so handsome ! '

Oh, no ! ' she said, quickly ; she blushed
very much ; she had been always told that
it was a sin to think of any physical charms,
and yet she had enough of the instincts of a
beautiful woman in her to take an unconscious
delight in the whiteness of her limbs, the
thickness of her Iiair, the smile of her own eyes
from a mirror.

Oh, yes ! ' said de Vannes, still with that
smile which vaguely hurt lier. ' You will be
marvellously handsome, Yseulte ; I think that

is the chief reason why the ladies wish you in
the cloister ! It was certainly the reason why
they would not take you to Othmar's last night.
To be sure you are not in the world, but in the
country they might have made an exception ;
you are seen in our drawing-rooms.'

She lifted her eyes with eager appeal.
Did he ask me ? Did he think of me ? '
she said, under her breath.

The keen glance of the Due flashed over
her face, and grew harsh and suspicious.

Because he spoke to you once,' he thought,
I suppose, though you be a young saint in
embryo, you are not proof against his millions !
You are all alike after all, you women, even in
the bud.'

Aloud he said : ' Yes ; I believe Othmar
bade my wife bring you. Perhaps she thought
it was too much like the great world for you ;
it was a brilliant affair  all done for the Princess
Napraxine.'

Who is the Princess Napraxine ? ' she
asked, surprised at her own temerity.

She is the lady of Othmar's dreams,' said
de Vannes, with an unkind satisfaction. ' You
are sure to see her here sometime. What did

you think of him the other night ? You know,
I suppose, that he could buy up all France if
he chose.'

I did not know,' she murmured. ' Nicolee,
I think, said that he was rich.'

Each ! ' echoed the Due, with derision.
That is not a word to describe Othmar. He
has about a million millions, and he would
probably be happier if he were the blind
beggar of the Pont JSTeuf. His millions do not
do anything for him with Nadine Napraxine,
and it is only for Nadine Napraxine that he
exists.'

Then he paused ; the respect for la jeune
Fille, by which the most dissolute of his countrymen
is restrained from long habit, making him
repress the sentence he had on his lips ; that
momentary flush and light of happiness at being
remembered by Othmar which he had seen on
his young cousin's face had made him bitter
against his neighbour and friend, and he would

DO 

willingly have continued his sarcasms on a
man who, with all the world at his feet, cared
only for another man's wife, who laughed at
him.

Yseulte listened with serious and wistful

eyes ; she did not know enough of his meaning,
nor enough of the sympathy which had
attracted her towards Othmar, to understand
why she feU a vague pain at hearing these
things said of him mingled with a delighted
gratitude that he had remembered her. It
was not to have gone to his party that she
cared for, but to be remembered by him.

The children and their governesses approached
her at that moment, and the Due
somewhat hurriedly turned away.

Do not let these fools see your locket,' he
said quickly, meaning by that epithet the wise
women who educated his daughters. ' If Cricri
notice it, tell her, of course.'

Yseulte, surprised at the injunction, looked
at him in wonder ; but lie saw so much irritation
in his expression that, being accustomed
to obey the orders of others without comment,
and to be taught that silence was one of the
first of duties, she put this gift in her pocket as
the children approached, and their father, with
a petulant word or two, turned away, lighting a
cigar.

What was 'petit papa saying to you ? '
cried the little sisters in a breath.

They were pretty children, with clouds of
hau' and saucy peevish little faces. They wore
sailor dresses, made very short at the knee
and showing legs very shapely though too
thin. Blanch este was blonde ; Toinon was a
little darker and rosier. Blanchette was the
more elegant and the more witty by far ; Toinon
was the sturdier and the nausrhtier. But
Toinon had still something of childhood left in
her ; Blanchette had lost every atom of hers
years before, though she was only ten years
old now. Toinon loved horses, dogs, boats,
and le sport generally ; Blanchette only cared
for smart frocks, things which cost a great deal
of money, scandal which she overheard, and
which fascinated her in proportion as it was
unintelligible to her, and the sense that she
was looked at admiringly as she drove behind
the ponies in the Bois or walked, with a court
of small boys behind her, down the planks at
Trouville.

Between her two cousins and Yseulte de
Valogne there was a great gulf fixed, that gulf
into which there has fallen so much of the
innocence of youth, of the grace of good manners,
of the charm of girlhood, and of the obligation

of nobility ; that gulf over which modern
society dances so lightly, blind and indifferent
to all it has lost.

What was petit pci'pa saying ? ' cried
Blanchette and Toinon in one breath, their
eyes wide open with curiosity and sparkling
with suspicion.

Yseulte hesitated ; she scarcely knew what
to say, and a kind of oppression came upon her
with the sense of the gift and the secret which
she had to keep and conceal.

He was telling me that I was invited 
there  last night,' she said, as she looked
across at the trees of S. Pharamond ; ' but they
thought me not old enough,' she added, with
an unconscious sigh.

Blanchette tinned up her little delicate nose
in the air.

Grande nigaude, va I ' she said contemptuously.
' You will never be anything but a
big baby, you! When I am as old as you,
I shall have been married a whole year
to a crown prince, and have gone to all the
theatres, and read all the newspapers  everyone
! '

'But she will never see a newspaper, and

never go to a theatre ; never, never, never,  a
big never 1 ' cried Toinon, vlio was two years
younger than Blancliette, as she clapped her
hands and capered.

'She does not care, she is such a stupid,'
said Blanchette, with all the superiority of
measureless scorn.

Papa was giving you something : what
did he give you ? ' said Toinon. ' He said you
were handsome the other night to mamma, I
heard him. Mamma was angry.'

Mamma did not care,' said Blanchette. ' If
it had been the Marquis Eaymond ! '

Then the little sisters laughed.

Yseulte with difficulty escaped from her
little tormentors, and wandered alone through
the pretty grounds ; while the closed shutters
of the villa of Milloo showed that her cousin
and her house-party were still sleeping after
the cotillon with which Othmar's party had
closed; an improvised and unexpected cotillon,
for which, nevertheless, there had been all
manner of admirable surprises, marvellous
novelties, and costly presents.

Ashen she was quite alone she took out
her pearl medallion and looked at it with alla

child's rapture at a toy and something of a
woman's pleasure in a jewel. The kindness of
her cousin de Vannes overwhelmed her. She
had known him now and then, as she passed
the doors of the billiard-room, or watched
the drag roll out of the courtyard, give her a
careless, good-tempered nod and a lazy word
or two, but never any more notice than that,
which was as much as Blanchette and Toinon
ever received from him. At such times as he
had come down to Bois le Eoy or Milloo, when
she was there, she had heard of him as a man
only devoted to horses and dogs, to sport of
all sorts, to his stag-hounds and boar-hounds
and otter-hounds, to his coach and his stud and
his great chasses ; she knew that he was a very
grand gentleman in Paris, and at Bois le Eoy
despite all revolutions  was a kind of king.
And he had thought about her so much that
he had bought her a locket! She could
scarcely believe it.

She sat in a little nook made by magnolias
that overhung the sea, and saw the sun shine
on her dove of pearls, and wondered if she
would dare to wear it ; would the Duchess
approve of it? There was only one thing

VOL. I. X

which disturbed her, it was his recommendation
to silence ; there had been a look in his eyes,
too, when he had said, 'You are very handsome,
yz7/,' which haunted her with a vague
uneasiness. She was too utterly innocent to
be alarmed by it, but a certain instinct in her
shrank from the remembrance of that regard.
It was the first look of sensual admiration
which had been ever given her, and though he
had added ' Of course you must tell Cri-Cri,'
he had said it grudgingly, as though he would
willingly, if he could have ventured to do so,
have bidden her keep his gift a secret from
his wife.

Are you counting your jewels, Mademoiselle
de Valogne ? ' said the voice of Othmar.
'Leave that until you are thirty years older
and need their aid.'

Without any thought of her he had been
strolling on the rocks above the little harbour
which belonged equally to S. Pharamond and
to Milloo. He had been bathing and swimming,
and was returning to his house, when he caught
sio-ht of her seated beneath the magnolias.

Yseulte coloured, and rose to her feet, dropping
the medallion in her surprise as his voice

startled her from her meditation. Othmar
picked it up aud returned it to her.

What a happy trinket to howl your
thoughts so long,' he said as he did so. ' I
have been watching you for a quarter of an
hour, and you have never ceased to look at
that most fortunate jewel.'

My cousin, the Due de Vannes, gave it tome
a moment ago,' she answered him, vexed
that he should suppose she could care so much
for any trifle.

De Vannes ! ' echoed Othmar in some surprise
; ' I did not know he had so much good
taste in the selection either of his gifts or their
recipients. It is a very pretty medallion,' he
added, noticing her look of distress and of
bewilderment. ' The dove is admirably done ;
I hope it will be an emblem of the peace which
will always remain with you.'

She did not speak ; the quick sensitiveness
of her instincts made her feel the satire of his
felicitations, and become conscious that for
some reason or another he disapproved the
gift which she had received.

I have never had any present before from
anyone,' she said simply, ' so it is a great

x3

pleasure to me. I do not mean only because

it is pretty '

But because of the affection it represents ?
I understand,' said Otlimar, while he thought
to himself, ' That goailleur de Vannes !  must
he even bring his indecencies to Milloo and try
and corrupt a poor helpless child ? The man
would not spend twenty francs out of mere
good nature, nor look at her twice out of mere
compassion.'

He looked at her himself now where she
sat under the magnolia branches ; and it
seemed to him as if she were the dove and
he saw the hawk descending. Alain de
Yannes could be seductive when he chose ; he
was good-looking and extremely distinguished,
was accustomed to conquest, and had that
charm of manner which the habit of the world
and the society of women make second nature.
If his fancy had lighted on his wife's cousin he
would not be likely to pause because she was
penniless, lonely, and consecrated to a spiritual
life.

One ought to put her on her guard,
and yet, who could venture to do that,' he
thought ; he, at all events, had no title to do

SO, and if he had, he could not willingly have
been the first to tell her that under the roses
there were vipers, that behind the dew and the
sunrise there were evil fires burning.

Will you stay long at Milloo ? ' he asked
abruptly.

I came here for two months,' she said.
We were all sent away,  there was fever ; I
have been here often before. I am very fond
of Milloo.'

Why would they not let you honour me
last night? '

I do not go into the world at all. I never
shall.' She hesitated a moment, then added
timidly, ' It was very kind to think of me.'

It would not be easy to forget you,' said
Othraar with a sincerity Which surprised himself.
' I wish you had been with us ; yours is
the age for batteries and enjoyment. I should
like to see you at your first ball.'

I shall never go to a ball. It would not
be thought right.'

And do you never rebel against so harsh
a destiny ? '

She coloured to her eyes as she answered
almost inaudibly, * Sometimes  yes  but then

I know that it is I who am wrong and they
who are right.'

Alio are they ? '

The Mother Superior ; my uncle, de
Creusacc, by his will ; my cousin Aurore ;
everyone that I belong to at all : my grandmother
especially desired it.'

It makes one wish all the world were
agnostic ! '

What did you say ? '

Agnostic was not a word she had been
allowed to hear.

I say that it is a cruel thing to force on
you such a choice. At least you should be
allowed to know what you do, ere you do it.
You should see what the world is like before
you renounce it. I can fancy that women
tired, sorrow-laden, unlovely, unloved, feeble of
health, may be glad of the refuge of religious
life ; but you ! '

Do you think one should only give God
what is weary and worn out ? ' she said softly.
Surely one should give one's best ? '

Othmar was touched by the words and the
tone. To him, whose boyhood had been filled
with spiritual faiths and hopes, and whose manhood

had the pain of knowledge that all these
gracious myths and wistful desires were but
mere dreams, there was the echo of remembered
adorations, of exquisite unreasoning beliefs, in
the simple answer which bespoke that faith in
heaven which a child has in its mother, unquestioning,
undoubting, implicit in obedience and
in trust.

Beside the cultured mind of the woman he
loved, with its fine scepticism, its delicate
ironies, its contemptuous rejections, its intellectual
scorn, no doubt this simple, narrow, unintelligent
faith was foolish and childish, and
out of date ; yet it touched him ; in Yseulte
de Alone it had an unconscious heroism, a
beautiful repose, which lifted it out of the
cramped rigidity of creeds and the apathy of
ignorance.

There were beneath her gravity and spirituality
a Warmth, a vitality, a latent force, which
seemed to him to cry aloud for enjoyment and
expansion. Sooner or later all that teeming life
slumbering in her would awake and demand its
common rights ; no creature perfectly organised
and full of health and strength can forego
the natural joys of human existence without

suffering a thousand deaths. As yet, no doubt,
she was as innocent, as ignorant, of the tyranny
of the senses, as any shell that lay at the bottom
of the blue waters yonder. She might have
fallen from heaven that day for aught she knew
of all which, in her unconsciousness, she was
ready to renounce. But any hour that divine
innocence might be destroyed by a word,
banished at a touch. Alain de Vannes, or any
other, might choose to find sport in waking and
in slaying it ; and then, how unhappy she
would be ! How like a bird freshly captured,
and beating itself to death against the bars !

It was only in France that a high-born
and beautiful girl could be sacrificed thus because
she had no dower. Everywhere else
women without dowers were sought and taken
in marriage every day. As if a few hundred
thousand francs were needful to make youth,
and loveliness, and purity, and high lineage,
acceptable to men!

You know my cousin the Due very well ?'
she said timidly after a long silence.

We have lived in the same world ; I have
not been intimate with him.'

Do you think he would be very vexed if

I asked Nicolee  that is, my foster-mother  to
sell this locket for me ? '

I fear he would not be best pleased. Why
should you wish to sell it ? '

She hesitated, then answered : ' I want to
buy the vicar that new gown he wants so much.
He will never spend a centime on himself, and
his gown has been mended and mended and
mended ; it is all a patchwork, and even that
is dropping to pieces, and the bishop's visitation
is near at hand. I thought the value of this
locket would buy a priest's gown, if my cousin
de Yannes would not be angry.'

That is a pretty thought of you ; it would
certainly buy many soutanes' said Othmar.
But I think Alain would not be at all pleased
if you sold his present ; and I told you the
other day that I will give the cure a new
gown myself with the very utmost pleasure.
You say that I belong to his parish.'

She smiled ; nevertheless, she hesitated to
accept his offer.

You must have so many things to give.
Nicolee says that people are always asking you
for things.'

'They do not always get them,' replied

Othmar, with a smile. ' If they wished only
for such useful and harmless things as soutanes
they should always have their wish.'

Are you so immensely rich then ? ' she
asked him, opening widely her golden-brown
eyes, which looked as if the sunshine was always
shining in them.

To my misfortune,' said Othmar, annoyed.
Could not even a child of sixteen out of a
convent forget his riches ? Was it possible she
too was going to ask him for something ?

She looked at him gravely.

'I wonder you do not build a cathedral,'
she said, after a pause.

A cathedral ! ' he echoed, in surprise. ' I
would if I had the faith of those who used todo
so.'

It is what I would do if I had money,'
said she, still very gravely. ' I would build
one in the heart of a forest, with the deer and
the birds all round it ; not jammed up amongst
streets and crowds like Iotre Dame or
Chartres.'

Then a sudden sense came over her that
she was violating all the rules of propriety by
which her life was ordered in thus speaking out

her thoughts to one who was almost a stranger ;
in jarring at all by the side of a man who
was of no parentage to her. She rose, a little
hurriedly, but with the stately grace which was
natural to her ; the grace of old Versailles
and Marly.

I think I must go back to the house,' she
said, with a little shyness. ' My cousin does
not like me to be alone, or to talk to anyone


The Duchesse will not object to me,' said
Othmar, with the same smile as he had had
when using the same words a few days
before. 'Besides, Mademoiselle, you are in
another world than your convent. At Milloo
men are not thought dragons and tigers. Weare
poor creatures, indeed, but harmless ; more
injured than injuring. Do not be so alarmed.
I want you to tell me a great deal more about
our vicar. Where am I to get his measure
for his gown ? Will he be surprised with it ?
Will you not let me send it to you that you
may take it to him ? I should be ashamed todo
so. I have never been inside his church,
even to hear you sing.'

No, you never came yesterday ! ' she said,

with a sigh, innocently revealing that she had
remarked his absence with regret.

To my shame and loss, I did not. I had
my uncle with me all the day, and at night a
dinner, a concert, and the batteries to which I
hoped you would have been brought.'

But I cannot dance,' said the child, blushing
very much as she made the humiliating
confession.

So much the better,' said Othmar, inconsistently,
' I am sure, however, that you would
dance with admirable grace if you danced at
all. Anyone who moves well can dance well.'

This time the colour in her cheeks was that
of pleasure at his praise. She was silent, looking
at him a little wistfully, recalling what De
Vannes had said of the Princess Napraxine.

The kindliness of his tone, its mingling of
familiarity and reverence, melted her reserve
and disarmed her shyness. There had been
that in the compliment of Alain de Vannes which
had startled and alarmed her ; but in the
almost paternal gentleness and friendliness of
Othmar's words there was nothing to do so.
He had little to her of the chillness and
languid irony which often frightened even

women in him, whilst he had all the graceful
courtesy of a man polished by all the habits
of the great world, and accustomed to that
pre-eminence which gives supreme ease of manner.
To her Othmar seemed a hero, a king,
an ideal among men ; when her cousin had
said to her that this person, so powerful, so
great, and so rich, was also unhappy, he had
said the only thing needed to complete his
fascination for her and to make him the master
of her dreams.

He bowed low before her with a sense of
something holier than was often met with in
this world, and looked after her as she sped
over the lawns to the house.

A beautiful creature, with a tender heart
in her breast,' he thought. ' Why could I not
meet her and find my heaven in possessing her,
instead of caring only for a woman who has
no more passion or pity than those Mexican
aloes ? '

As he walked home the remembrance of
Nadine Xapraxline seemed like a little adder
growing in his heart, and the large eyes of
Yseulte de Valogne seemed to look into his
soul with their golden sun-rays. He was passionately

in love with the one, bitterly, angrily,
resentfully, in love ; for the other he felt an
extreme pity, a sympathy, which with propitious
circumstances might become affection, an admiration
of the senses which might with time be
heightened to desire, an inclination to take her
in his arms and save her from her fate as he
might have taken up a wounded bird to save it
from the trap.

CHAPTEE XII.

YsEULTE the next day was sitting writing a
German theme in the children's room, of which
the windows opened on the gardens, when
Alain de Vannes, with a cigarette in his mouth,
pushed open the glass door and sauntered in
from the open air.

Well, my cousin,' he said gaily. ' Here
you are, shut up like a little mouse. What
nonsense it is ! German ? What good will
that do you ? When the revanche comes, we
shall speak with bullets and they will understand
as we understood. Pardieu ! When
they burnt my woods in Charente !  I had a
ball in my ribs at Saarbriick ; did you know
it ? Where were you P In Paris ?  during
the siege ? A baby like you ! Is it possible ! '

There were many other little children
there,' said the girl with a shudder ; she had
been such a little child then, that the horror of
the time had left an ineffaceable mark upon her.

Of course, of course,' said the Due, seating

himself on the edge of the table. ' But not
many of your rank. Most people got away.
Ah, to be sure, I remember your uncles de
Creusacc were both shot ; yes, we all lost heavily ;
it is no use thinking of it ; but I would give my
life to enter Berlin. Tiens ! this is not what I
came to say, but you make one serious ; why
will you not laugh ? Do you know that we
have a ball next week ? '

I heard Blanchette saying so.'

Ah, the little cat ! She knows everything.
Now, this ball  would you not like to come
to it, instead of being shut up in your room
writing crabbed German characters ? '

It is impossible.'

While she said the cruel word firmly, her
heart gave a great leap of longing that was
almost hope.

ISTot impossible ; perhaps difficult,' said
de Vannes, with a smile as he threw his cigar
out on to the grass. ' But I think I could
persuade Cri-Cri ; it is a shame for you to be
shut up ; you will have enough of that all your
life if you go where they say.'

Yseulte was silent ; her heart was still
beating tumultuously, she breathed quickly.

How handsome she is ! ' thought the Due.
She only wants that flush of life to be perfect.
Women are like alabaster lamps, unlit until
they learn envy and desire. When that flame
is lighted, then the alabaster glows.'

He stooped his head and kissed her hand,
but he did it with a different touch to Othmar's,
and she coloured with a sense of pain and
anger.

'marner he murmured. ' I will undertake
to combat successfully the scruples of
your cousin ; you shall see the ball next week.
Cri-Cri shall find you a frock, and jewels you
want none ; you have the supreme jewel 
youth ; crowns are dull without it ; and, let
our dear women use what arts they may, they
cannot counterfeit it. I will be your good
genius, Yseulte, and open your prison doors.
You will not refuse me a little gratitude  a
little goodwill? Something quite simple and
commonplace will content me, you see, but you
must give it de hon coeur!

The words were harmless, and said little,
but his eyes as they were bent upon her said
much ; much more than he knew. There was
a look in them which lighted their pale blue

VOL, I. y

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

with a fire from which she shrank by instinct,
as from something which scorched and hurt
her. The eyes of Alain de Yannes, like those
of most men who have lived his life and had
his experiences, Avere cold, jaded, passionless in
repose, but when amorous, were cruel, eager,
rapacious. Yseulte drew her hand from him ;
her heart sank five fathoms deep, but she
gathered up all her courage.

'You are very good, M. mon cousin,' she
said with a ceremonious coldness worthy of
one twice her years. ' But do not trouble
yourself for me. That sort of pleasure would
not accord with the life that I am always to
lead. I do not know the world ; I do not
wish to know it ; it is never to have anything
to do with me ; it is better I should not even
see it, I might only regret.'

She said the little speech bravely, not
faltering[ once, though to make it cost hera
pang, but she crushed out all her natural
longings, all her wistful instincts, all her youthful
dreams to do so ; flowers plucked up by
the roots and thrown down at the foot of the
altars of Marie. But even at this moment
the altar still seemed to her that which she

had been always told that it was, a refuge
sweet, safe, unfailing. A refuge from vhat?
She did not know, but a vague fear had
assailed her.

De Vannes looked at her with surprise and
irritation ; at the bottom of his heart he was
himself ashamed of the unholy wishes which
had awakened in him, of the treacherous temptations
which he had begun to put in the path of
a girl who was his own guest, his wife's relative,
and whose position ought in its sheer defencelessness
to have been her best safeguard with
any man of honour. He was not without
honour, in a loose fashion, but he was very
unscrupulous when his fancy was excited. If
before her retirement to the religious life she
should have an ' affaire,' and if that ' affaire '
should have himself for its hero, it did not
seem to him that anything terrible would have
taken place. What was the use of occupying
a high position if one could not successfully
conduct and cover a little intrigue like that .?

At the same time he knew that his designs
would scarcely be condoned, even by the very
hight-minded set amongst which he lived, if it
were seriously known that lie endeavoured

to be the first to corrupt his young cousin.
Therefore her words struck a certain nerve of
susceptibility within him ; he felt a kind of
compunction before that serious and guileless
regard. Yet he was very angry. He, Alain
de Vannes, who never looked at a fillette who
never deigned to notice any lesser thing than
some of the famous beauties of the great world,
or of the half-world, had taken the infinite
trouble to distinguish this child, to seek her
and to offer her his influence and protection,
and she had repulsed him, with her hands
lying crossed on her German books and her
rose-leaf cheeks growing neither the warmer
nor the colder for his regard.

He rose, and his eyebrows contracted in a
heavy frown. He was a good-humoured man
usually, but in such rare times as his will was
crossed he had the petulance and the malice
of a spoiled child.

You are not wise, villette,' he said, with a
little laugh. ' I would be a good friend to you,
and you may want one before you are safe in
the bosom of Our Lady. I wonder the ball did
not tempt you. You would have seen your
friend Othmar  and Madame Napraxine.'

Then he pulled the glass door open with
an impatient hand, and went out into the
grounds without, leaving behind him the
odour of his cigarette and the stings of his
last words.

Blanchette peeped in from behind a silk
curtain ; her saucy babyish eyes were full of
curiosity and wonder.

 Tiens Yseulte,' she said, running up to
her cousin, ' I heard all papa said. Why should
he want you at the ball, and why should you
not go ? You are a goose, such a goose !
You know papa can always make mamma do
what he chooses. He always threatens to send
away M. de Prangins.'

Then Blanchette laughed, curling herself
up in a little ball at her cousin's feet.

You should not say such wicked things,
Blanchette,' said Yseulte ; ' and it is very
shameful and dishonourable to listen anywhere
unseen '

Blanchette made a jnecl de nez with her little
rosy fingers, with all the mockery and insolence
of Gavroche himself.

You are vulgar as well as wicked,' said her
cousin sadly, as she looked away.

It is distinguished to be vulgar, now,' said
the little ten-year-old Parisienne. ' All the
great ladies are. except Madame Napraxine ;
she is always wrapped up in herself. She has
no entrain she cares for nothing. She is not
at all my model. Listen ! If you were not
such an idiot, you would see that 'petit papa is
in love with you, ever so much in love ! Why
don't you get all kinds of things out of him
while he is in the humour ? He would buy
you all the Palais Royal if you knew how to
manage him, and mamma Avill not say anything
as long as the Marquis Eaymond is here-blanched

! ' cried the girl, indignantly.
She rose to her feet ; a flood of shame seemed
to roll over her.

The insolent, malicious turquoise eyes of
Blanchette amused themselves with her horror
and trouble.

You are such a baby ! ' said the child
again, contemptuously. ' You never seem to
understand anything. Me, I understand it all.
I shall do it all when I am married. I shall
be just like mamma. It is the Marquis Raymond
now ; it was the Prince Jacques last year.
I liked the Prince Jacques best. He gave mean

orchestra of monkeys ; you wound it up and
all the monkeys played  fife, drum, clarion,
flute, too-too, too-too, tra-la-la-la ! The marquis
has never given me anything, except a sack of
bonbons he might have bought at St. Cloud.
If he do not give me something very good at
new year, I shall say out loud in the salon,
when a lot of people are making visits : " You
are not as nice as Prince Jacques ! " And how
he will look, because he always frets and fumes
about the prince 1 I think they fought about
mamma. Oh, it must be such fun to be a
woman ! I wish, I wish, I wish I were fifteen.
I would be so naughty, they would have to
marry me tomorrow ! If you were not a goose
you would be as naughty as ever you could
be. They would get you a husband then ;
papa would see to it.'

Blanchette ! ' cried Yseulte, again, in
desperation, not knowing how to stem the tide
of the child's words. She, like Blanchette herself,
was ignorant of all the horrible import of
those words which the little thing used, half in
malicious precocious knowledge, and half in
absolute childish ignorance ; but they terrified
her and appalled her both in themselves and

for their speaker, and for all which, even to
her innocence, they suggested of unspeakable
inconceivable shamefulness.

Blanchette ! ' echoed the child, mimicking
the horror and expostulation of her cry. ' Oh,
how glad I am I have Schemmitz and Brawn to
teach me instead of going to a convent to be
made a goose of Hke you. Schemmitz and Brawn
are old owls, but I keep my eyes and my ears
open at Trouville, at Biarritz, in Paris, here,
anywhere, everywhere. Now, in your nunnery
you see no more, you hear no more, than if you
where a statue in a chapel. That is why you
are so stupid. Tiens ! Why did papa call
Count Othmar your friend ? Is he your friend?
You are as still as a mouse about everything.'

Her quick glance saw the colour mount into
her cousin's face, and the cruel child laughed
triumphantly. ' Oh, how you blush, oh oh !
Nobody blushes now-a-days. One must be old-fashioned
like you to be so silly. 1 shall never
blush. Tiens, Yseulte, tell me all about it and
I will not tell Toinon.'

'There is nothing to tell,' said Yseulte,
almost losing her patience.

Papa never says anything without meaning

something by it,' said Blancliette, sagaciously.
And if there be nothing, why should you
blush ? I know all about Count Othmar ; he is
rich  oh, so rich ! Nobody was ever so rich
outside the Juiverie ; I heard them say so this
autumn at Aix. But all he cares about is
Princess Napraxine. Have you ever seen Princess
Fapraxine ? She drives in the Bois with
three horses in the Eussian way ; the one in
the middle is a little in front of the others, and
they have only little bits of silver for harness,
and they fly  ouf ! I mean to marry a Eussian.'


Is she so very beautiful ? ' said Yseulte, ina
low tone, ashamed of questioning the child,
and yet impelled by an irresistible desire to
hear more of this wondrous sovereign. 

Pas tant que ca ! ' said Blanchette, critically.
' But she is much more than only handsome.
She makes every one that goes near
her mad about her. She is pale, and has great
eyes ; but there is no one like her, they say.
What do you think they call her ? They call
her Flocon de Neige. She cares for nobody,
you know ; that is what they mean. She is
not at all what I admire ; what I admire is the

Duchesse d'Ambree. Elle sait se faire une
tete I '  continued Blancliette, growing breathless,
and powerless to express her immense
admiration.

Madame d'Ambree was a blonde, with a
profusion of real gold curls, cheeks admirably
tinted, and a tiny Cupid's bow of a mouth ; a
great huntress, a great swimmer, a great
smoker ; she had very extravagant toilettes,
and very loud manners, and was a really great
lady, with the language of a cantiniere : she
was the object of the child's idolatry.

I will be just like that,' Blanchette said to
herself whenever she saw Madame d'Ambree
walking on the planks at Trouville, going into
the casino at Aix, or driving her piebald ponies
round the Bois. Blanchette admired her own
mother immensely, but she admired the
Duchesse d'Ambree still more.

Maman laisse un peu' she often said to
her sister, with a little scornful smile. She
knew that her mother was twenty eight ; to
Blanchette that age seemed to be quite hopeless
decrepitude.

Yseulte,' she said, suddenly now, ' if you
do not give me your silver prayer-book, I

shall tell mamma about you and papa. Ibis
donc sois sage. Give me the silver Hours.'

The silver prayer-book had belonged to a
Marquise de Creusacc, in the time of Louis
Treize. It was adorned with illuminated letters,
and the coronet and initials were set in opals
on one side of the silver cover. Yseulte had
been given the book by her grandmother on
her death-bed ; she used it always, and it was
the object of Blanchette's desires.

You know that I cannot give it you,' said
Yseulte, gently. ' It was my grandmother's
last gift ; it is an heirloom.'

Blanchette looked up from under her yellow
hair.

You had better give it me. Sois sage I '

She had the same expression  half menace,
half malice  that her father had had.

I cannot,' repeated her cousin, ' I have
told you so, dear, a hundred times. I should
not have a moment's peace if I parted with
that book.'

Blanchette said nothing more, but she made
a wheel of herself on the school-room floor, as
she had seen the boys do on the pavement in
Paris. ' Comme on est bete ! Comme on est

bete ! ' she kept thinking in her shrewd little
mind, as she stood on her wise little skull withall
the dexterity of any street-boy.

Blanchette at ten years old had already
resolved the problem of life with great simplicity
; its solution seemed to her to consist in
getting whatever you wanted by being detestable
whenever you did not get it.

On the night of the ball, when the first
carriages rolled up to the perron of Milloo,
Yseulte, who had gone to bed at ten o'clock,
but had not slept, rose and went to her
window, which looked on the front of the house.
The illuminations of the building and of the
grounds were so brilliant that the light was
almost as strong as day. The awnings hid from
her sight the steps at which the arriving guests
descended, but she could see the carriages as
they came up toward them, and she could hear
the Suisse bawl out the names of those who
arrived one after another ; amongst them some
of the greatest names of Europe. At twelve
she heard the name of Ochmar ; but she had
not seen him, for the blinds of his brougham
were down.

An hour and a half later, almost the last of

the apparently endless succession of champing
horses and lamp-lit copes, she saw one carriage
of which the window next her was
lowered as it drove up ; she could see within ita
very lovely woman, with a little tiara of diamonds
on lier head, and a great bouquet, made
entirely of gardenias, in her hand, and a cloak
of gold tissue, lined with ermine, drawn up as
high as her mouth. The lady's profile, delicate as
if it were cut in ivory, with something satirical
and mutinous in its expression, was all that
Yseulte could see of her ; but she felt that in
that moment she had looked on the Princess
Napraxine. In effect, as the carriage rolled
beneath the awning, the sonorous Muscovite
name was shouted by the waiting lackeys.

The girl withdrew from the casement and
shut the shutters ; she did not want to see anymore.


She lay down again, but she did not sleep.
The sound of dance music, played by the band
of the ball-room, echoed through all the villa,
which was a light modern structure, and had
Httle solidity in it. She did not care for the
dancing ; she hardly knew what it was like ;
but she thought of the lovely woman with the

pretty contemptuous profile, and the diamonds
and the gardenias in her hair. She could not
sleep for thinking of her ; she was there below
in the light, amidst the music and the flowers,
and Othmar was there too. The visitants which
Alain de Vannes had wished should go to her,
envy and regret, entered her innocent soul, and
made sad ravages there, as when a rat runs
amidst a white rose and pulls its blossoms down.

Sleep kept aloof from her ; she was ashamed
of her own thoughts, but the dawn found her
with hot wide-open eyes. The music was still
sounding, like a tireless, immortal thing that
shouted and laughed for its pleasure. It was
only the first notes of the cotillon ; but to
Yseulte it sounded like the song of triumph of
the world  that world which she would never
know.

All her nuns and priests could not perhaps
have read her a sounder homily than the house
mutely spoke when she went timidly downstairs
and through its many rooms at sunrise.

The flowers covering the balustrades and
walls of the staircase were dying ; the sleepy
servants were turning out the gas, putting out
the wax candles ; other servants were drinking

champagne and smoking cigars as they hurried
to clear away the supper tables ; in the ballroom
there was a litter of dropped flowers, torn
lace, discarded cotillon toys, atoms of fringe
and of ribbon which looked scarcely better
than rags; the torches were still flaming amongst
the scorched clusters of azaleas and roses ; in
the vestibule two gentlemen who had stayed to
drink some black coffee were putting on their
furs and yawning miserably ; Alain de Vannes,
as he sauntered upstairs, was muttering, ' C'est
crevant !  un bal chez soi :  on ne me reprendra
jamais ! ' and a maid of his wife's was
recounting her griefs to a tall powdered lackey,
with sobs of rage ; ' Madame m'a donne des
giles, mais des giles !  enfin  elle tomba de
sommeil et puis le petit Prangins n'a pas ete
gentil pour elle, du tout, du tout, ce soir ! '

CHAPTEE XIII.

Nadine Napraxine meanwhile rolled home iu
the pale light of the winter morning, which
had dawned over a quiet sea and a peaceful
country. She was neither fatigued nor exhilarated
by a ball which had been one of those
long triumphs to which she was so well used.
She looked as calm, as cool, as delicate of hue,
as any Lenten lily that opens between the snow
and the moss on an April morning. She was
one of those women who can go through incredible
fatigue, whether of pleasure or of
travel, without any personal traces of it.

Whilst her companion. Lady Brancepeth,
nodded and slumbered, she looked out at the
landscape over which the sun was slowly dawning,
driving before its rays the white mists
which stretched over sea and mountain. There
were people moving in it : women came down
the steep stone ladders of their fields bearing
heavy loads of oranges or of vegetables ; mule

carts plodded along the cactus-lined paths ;
fishermen were pushing boats into deep water ;
church bells were ringing. She, with her
delicate and acute perception of what was
beautiful, found pleasure in watching the simple
hardy figures which were seen for a moment
and then disappeared beneath the mist, in
hearing the bells answer one another ringing
across the white clouds that were touching the
earth.

What does it feel like,' she wondered,
to sleep sound all night on a bit of sacking,
and get up in the dusk, and go into the wet
fields and labour ? What do these people think
about ? What do sheep think about, or oxen ?
It must be much the same thing. Wilkes,
what do field-labourers think about ?  you
have got ever so many at home, you ought to
know.'

Lady Brancepeth felt cross at being aroused
and cross at having been asleep :

'Think about?' she murmured; 'oh, I
don't know ; beer, I believe with us, beer and
bacon ; here I should say francs, nothing but
francs, probably. What put them in your
head  And there are no labourers here in

VOL I. z

our sense of the word, you know ; it is most of
it la petite culture you know. I never believe
it is good for the soil, certainly not in the long
run ; it can't be ; they get everything out, they
put nothing in. Of course they think only of
the market of the day ; they don't think of the
future, those people. That will be always the
upshot of peasant proprietors, they Avill always
ruin the soil.'

Nadine Napraxine laughed :

What a fine thing it is to be an Englishwoman
; you think of political economy and of
the soil ' the very moment that you wake out
of a doze ! I suppose the earth wil] certainly
last our time ; what does the rest matter ? ' '

You are so  so  so egotistic and autocratic,
ISTadine.'

The Princess laughed :

Oh, I don't know ; I don't think so. I
like a despotism, I was born under it ; it saves
so much trouble, and one big despot is very
much easier to deal with than a score of little
ones, especially when you stand well at his
Court. It is always better to be judged by a
judge instead of a jury, but simpletons will not
see that.'

But how can one judge, however just,
rightfully judge a nation of millions unless he
have the eyes and ears of Vishnu? I think
you really are a despot by nature, but you are
so very disputatious that you are always ready
to repudiate your most cherished opinions for
sheer sake of argument. You should have
been a sophist.'

'Every question is polygonal. Look at
that gleam of light on that sail and all the rest
of the vessel lost in fog  how charming !  it is
like a picture of Aivanoffsky's. That is what
I like in life ; nothing said out, nothing broadly
and rudely done, everything a demi mot, everything
suggestion, not assertion ; that is the only
way to exhaust nothing, not to be wearied.'

You like impressions, not pictures ; that is
the new school. Everyone is not satisfied with
it. That there are people to whom these vague
wavy lines, those dim Washes of colour, tell

little '

Oh, the people to whom one must explain!
Let them all go where the sheep of Panurge
went.'

I wish you would condescend for once to
explain something,' said Lady Brancepeth, and

z 2

paused : Princess Nadine heard with a look of
infinite ennui.

You mean to revenge yourself for having
been awakened out of that dose. I never explain
 enfin ! tell me what you want.'

Under this slight encouragement Lady
Brancepeth gained courage to plunge straightway
into a question which she had long meditated.


Will you tell me, my dear Nadine, what
you mean to do with my brother ? '

Madame JSTapraxine turned a little round
in lier ermine and gold brocade, and looked
solemnly in her companion's face.

My dear Evelyn, you amaze me ! Do with
him ? I ? With your brother ?  with Lord
Geraldine? AYhat should I do with him ?
Do you want me to make a good marriage for
him ? But you are there to preside over that ;
and, besides, he will make one himself  some
day.'

Speak seriously for a moment,' said Lady
Brancepeth with impatience. ' You are very
clever, and are fond of denis-mots ; I am a
blunt, stupid woman, and so I like plain ones.
It is two years since Geraldine has had any

other thought than yourself. When will you
be merciful and magnetism him ? '

Does that depend on me ? ' said the Princess
Nadine, with a little laugh. ' Do you want
me to make a few passes in the air with my
hand? I can do it if you wish, but I doubt
the result.'

Lady Brancepeth made an impatient movement.


Poor Ealph is only one amongst many,
I know, my dear ; but for that very reason
surely you might spare him ? You do not care
the least little atom about him '

The least little ! I am a Eussian, but I
do know that is not good English. I speak
better English than you do.'

You do everything admirably well. You
are the most intelligent as you are the most
interesting woman that I know ; but you are
also the most heartless,' answered Lady Bracelet
with some heat. ' I am not a prude ; I
can understand temptation and the weakness
that cedes to it ; I can understand love and the
force that it may exercise, and I can forgive
even its follies ; but your kind of coquetry I
cannot forgive. It is the exercise of a merciless

power which is as chill as a vivisector's attitude
before his victim. You have no sympathy or
compassion ; you have only a sort of cynical
amusement in what you do ; you make yourself
the centre of a man's life with no more
effort than you use that fan ; the man is
nothing to you, nothing on earth ; but you
destroy all his peace, all his future '

Dear Wilkes, do not be so tragic ! ' murmured
Princess Napraxine, with a little yawn.
I dislike tragedy ; I never by any chance goto
Perrin's when they play one. If men are
fond of me  as you say '

As I say ! ' ejaculated Lady Brancepeth.

As you say ; it is merely because  as you
wisely if ungrammatically observed  it is because
I do not care the ' least little atom "
about any one of them. I should have exceedingly
liked to care for Plato ; it would
have been something new ; it would have
agreed with my programme of life ; it would
have suited me in every way ; but n'aime pas
qui veil ; dio could care for Plato ? Does
anybody ever care for a good-natured, very
big, and entirely uninteresting person who
drinks brandy and grows bald ? '

You beg my question,' retorted Lady
Brancepeth ; ' you know very well that I am
not talking of your husband.'

Then you ought to be if you be not !
You are a very immoral woman to recommend
me to care for anybody else,' said the Princess
with her soft, quiet little laugh, that was as
pretty as the coo of a wood dove but by no
means so harmless.

You would exasperate a saint,' cried her
companion.

I never met one,' said Nadine. ' The
nearest approach to one that I know is Melville,
and I can put hia out of temper.'

I have no doubt you can,' said Lady
Brancepeth ; ' I think you would anyone ; you
do such immeasurable harm, and are all the
while as demure as a rabbit, and as innocent-looking.
My dear Princess, you are the cruellest
woman that lives ! Flocon de Neige they call
you. They might much more appropriately
call you Goutte de Morphine. You enervate,
and you kill, and all the while, what do you
care ? You care no more than the morphia
does.'

Did the ball bore you too so dreadfully

that you are so very unkind ? A rabbit and
morphia ! Your similes are mixed, my dear.
I am never a flirt ; a flirt is a very vulgar
thing. No man lives, I can assure you, who
could say he ever had a word of encouragement
from me. That is not at all my way.'

No ! ' said Lady Brancepeth, bitterly,
your way is merely to look at men and destroy
them, and then laugh a little when they are
spoken of: I never reproached you with
ordinary coquetry ; I reproach you with something
much more subtle, arrogant, cold, and
crueL There is a gum of the East advertised
which does not kill flies, only attracts them, so
that they cling to it by millions, and hang there
stupidly in a throng till they die. That gum
is very like your power over your lovers ; it is
just as passive, just as deadly.'

The gum and I were made as we are by
nature. Blame nature. The men and the flies
would do worse if they did not do that. And
pray do not talk about my lovers ; I have
none.'

You have no serfs in Eussia, but you have
moulins ; and it is still much the same thing,
as far as their submission goes.'

You are really too sarcastic, Wilkes. Was
Cri-Cri's champagne bad ? Surely not. But
there must be something you have not digested.
Perhaps it is the caviare sandwiches. Here
we are, at home. Do go to bed and dream of
your gum, your rabbit, and your bottle of
morphine. None of these things can swim,
but I, who am a combination of them, can ;
and I shall be swimming under your window
wMlst you sleep.'

The carriage stopped at the foot of the
terrace of La Jacquemerille, and she descended,
aided by Geraldine, who, with her husband,
had arrived a few minutes earlier.

Lady Brancepeth hurried indoors, conscious,
with the consciousness of thirty-five years, that
the morning light was not becoming after a
ball. Nadine Napraxine, with the equally
conscious immunity of an exquisite complexion,
and of that kind of beauty which is like a sea-shell,
unwound the lace from about her delicate
head, and paused in the doorway, looking
seaward.

I shall not go to bed,' she said, as the rays
of the sunrise touched the gilded pinnacles and
vanes of La Jacquemerille. ' I shall go and

get into a peignoir, then breakfast, and then
bathe. It is so stupid to go to bed when
the sun is up. Plato, you look like a bear
awaked before he has done liberating. Did
you not get sleep enough in de Yannes'
fumoir ? '

I never get sleep enough,' replied Na-praise,
good-humouredly but drowsily ; ' and
you do a very foolish thing if you stand there,
Princess, in a frost, at seven o'clock, after five
hours of the cotillon ! '

There is no frost ; look at the geraniums ;
and I never take cold ; that is not my malady
at all ; I am not so silly.'

Napraxine opened his sleepy eyes.

When you cannot live in Eussia because
the tubercles on your lungs '

Dr. Tliiviers is responsible for the tubercles.
One is obliged to say something civil to
get away from a Court. It is always safe to
say one suffers with one's lungs ; nobody can
ask to look at them. Pray go to bed, and
dream of Nirvana, if you know what it means.'

The Prince obeyed, and disappeared yawns.
Geraldine remained, gazing at this elegant
figure on the marble step, with its sortie du bal

of ermine and gold silk folded about it, and
the face with its hue of a white tea-rose, which
could defy so surely the searching morning
light.

She glanced at him in return, and laughed.
How droll you look with your claque and
your ulster ; you are not harmonious with
the landscape, my friend ; and you look sulky.
The ball seems to have disagreed with all of
you ; 3'et it was a very good ball, as balls go ;
it is impossible to give any variety to a ball.
Balls and funerals, ca se resemble trop'

She drew the ermine over her pretty chin,
the diamonds sparkled in her hair ; the bouquet
of gardenias swung in her hand. The eyes
of Geraldine grew very sombre and covetous.

I am sorry I am a blot on the scene,' he
said, moodily. ' Englishmen are always unpicturesque.
I stood still and gazed at you
all night, but no doubt I only looked like
a policeman or a fool '

Or both,' she murmured, with a smile.

He continued exceedingly, ' While your
friend Othmar, who did precisely the same
thing, looked, of course, to you and to everybody,
like a Titian resuscitated.'

Othmar is not especially like any Titian
that I have ever seen,' said Madame Napraxine,
but he knows how to stand with grace, which
no Englishman ever did know yet. You are
quite right ; your people do not " compose "
well, except when they are in the hunting-field,
or playing some very rough game ; but you
need not sonffler for compliments ; you are
very good-looking  in your way.'

Thanks,' muttered Geraldine, in a tone
which would have better suited an imprecation.

Othmar had not danced once with her ; he
had indeed only moved reluctantly through
a contre-danse with his hostess ; but the unerring
instinct of jealousy made the envy of
Geraldine fasten on him rather than on any
other of the crowd for whom the ball at Milloo
had only meant Princess Napraxine.

It is a little chilly,' said the Princess as
she turned from the open door.

Geraldine caught her hand which held the
fan : ' If you would but believe all that your
life is to us, you would not run such mad
risks as this raw cold fog after a ball ! Had I
been Plat on, I would have carried you to your
room by main force,'

The face of Nadiiie Napraxine grew very
cold.

You are not Prince Napraxine  happily
for myself and yourself; and I do not like
impertinences. Go and smoke, and recover
your good manners.'

You were kinder to me before Othmar
came home ! ' said Geraldine, with injudicious
reproach.

You have very bad manners,' said the
Princess calmly, as she gathered up her ermine
and drew her flower-laden train over the little
hall and up the staircase.

She smiled as she passed upward.
How babyish they all are ! ' she reflected.
'As if to complain of another man were not
th very way to cement a woman's preference
for him,  if she had any preference. That
poor boy has no tact ; if his sister had not said
anything about him I woidd send him away ;
he is a bore. To be sure, he is here to take
Plato off one's hands, and smoke With him.
All men are tiresome when you have known
them a month or so ; all human beings are
tiresome. Nobody ever tires of me, and I tire
of everybody. Perhaps '

She remembered that Othmar had alone
never tired her ; he had been too romantic, too
presuming, too prone to fancy he lead rights
and wrongs ; but he had never wearied her.
Most men were so absurd when they were
enamoured of her, but he was not so ; a little
too, like Euy Bias perhaps sa little too inclined
to be serious and impassioned, to the vieux
jeu in a word ; but still he had kept his grace
and kept his dignity. He kept them still ; he
would not let her play with him. She was the
one woman on earth for him ; but he did not
become her slave.

She had her bath and wrapped herself in a
loose gown of satin and lace and went out into
the garden with a rose-coloured hood over her
head. It was certainly cold, and the mists had
not altogether cleared ; but it was a point of
honour with her to do what her physician and
her friends denounced as most dangerous.

Plato is snoring,' she thought contemptuously,
as she glanced over the closed shutters.
And I dare say Geraldine snores too, if one
only knew. I dare say they both took soda and
brandy. Men are certainly unlovely creatures.
As long as we are young we are a little better

than they ; we look pretty asleep, and we don't
snore. How maquilUe poor Cri-Cri was last
night, and then she really throws her heart
into the affair with de Prangins ; nothing ever
ages a woman like that ; and I am quite sure
he does not care a straw about her.'

She walked up and down her terrace,
trailing her rose-coloured skirts over the
marble ; she was a little sleepy, a little bored ;
but she wished to show to her friends that she
could dance all night and breakfast out of
doors without more fatigue than a nightingale,
after singing all night, feels as he trips
across the grass at sunrise.

She thought, with a little amusement, that,
if Geraldine were really as wasting with despair
as he professed to be, he would have been out
of bed still on the mere chance of her reappearance.
The various degrees of passions in her
lovers diverted her ; she had no vanity ; she
could dissect and weigh their emotions with
perfect accuracy and philosophise upon them
with a clearness of understanding wholly beyond
the reach of vain woman. Analysis diverted
her much more than conquest. Some had loved
her tragically, some had died through her if

not for her ; she had had genuine triumphs,
great enough and costly enough to satisfy the
pride of anyone ; therefore she could amuse
herself very well with the contradiction when
somebody, who declared that he only lived for
her, nevertheless drank his claret with relish ;
or somebody else, who was for ever at her feet,
nevertheless ceased not to be critical of his
cigars.

Poor Othmar ! ' she thought now ; ' he
would stay sleepless in the street all night on
the chance of seeing my shadow on a window
blind ! '

That was the vieux jeu ; romanticism which
did not suit their world ; which even made her
impatient of it as indifferent people are always
impatient of earnestness. But it was fine after
all : finer than Geraldine's sulkiness which let
him go to sleep.

The air was very cold, but the morning
was fair, and the mists were lifting higher and
higher every moment ; as her skirts brushed
the bay hedge it gave forth a sweet odour,
snowdrops and hepatica blossomed under the
big aloes, and ground ivy was green about the
stems of the palms ; the mountains grew the

hue of summer roses under the sun's approach ,
then paled into amethyst and pearly grey ; it
was intensely quiet, there was no sound but of
some unseen gardener sweeping up dead leaves ;
the yellow wings of an oriole flashed among the
glossy leaves of a pitosperum.

The world looks as if God washed it clean
every morning,' she thought. ' It gets soiled
before noon. Decidedly it is only the birds
who are innocent enough for the sunrise.'

The latent sadness of the Eussian character
was in her, beneath her insouciance and her
pessimism and her irony : sometimes she wished
she had not been born to that world in
which she lived, where there is no pause for
reflection, but only a continuous succession of
spectacles, excitations, revelries, where no one
is ever alone, where no one has ever time to
note a wild flower grow or a sun sink to the
west, where the babble of society is for ever
on the ear, and Nature has no place at all
except as a decor de theatre of v-liich no one
thinks more than the actor thinks of the painted
canvas behind him with its bridge or its garden
or its windmill.

I do believe I should have liked to have

VOL. I. A A

been a poor woman and have married such a
man as Millet or Corot,' she thought to herself
now as she walked along the alley of bay that
ran parallel with the sea. Then she laughed
at the idea of herself, living in a cottage in a
French wood, without any lace, without any
diamonds, without any toilettes, looking for a
dusty footsore artist coming home through the
trees to his iot au feu. Somehow the artist
in her fancy had the features of Othmar,  of
Othmar, who was a prince of the Bourses and
could no more escape the world than she could !

It scarcely surprised her when she saw him
in person, as though her thoughts had compelled
him to come thither. He was alone,
in a little boat, which drifted slowly past the
sea-terrace of La Jacquemerille ; his hands
rested idly on the oars, and his eyes were looking
upward at the house.

She leaned down through one of the openings
of the wall of dipt bay, and thrust her rose
satin hood over the water :

Is it you, Othmar ? ' she said to him.
What are you doing on the sea at eight
o'clock . How astonished you look ! Do you
wonder what I am doing in the open air?

They are all asleep comfortably, though they
think I am courting death. Eow to the stairs ;
you can breakfast with me.'

He hesitated, looking up at her with his
head uncovered and his eyes dazzled by the
delicate face that was peering forth from the
framework of close sheared bay boughs.

Come ! ' said Madame Kapraxine. Her
voice could be very imperious, and was so
now.

He obeyed in silence, passed to the landing-place
a hundred yards farther down, and in
five minutes' time approached her under the
arched roof of the bay camille.

But you Avere only back from the ball an
hour or less ! ' he said, as he bowed before
her.

I was not inclined to go to bed ; the
morning is fine. You are up betimes, too.
When did you leave Milloo ? '

I left when you did,' said Othmar, with
significance in the brevity of the reply.

Then you cannot have breakfasted either.
You will breakfast with me ; I was just going
back to the house.'

It was precisely the sort of coiijp de scene

A A 2

which would amuse her ; her husband and
Geraldine lounging downstairs, late, cross, and
easily ruffled, to find her alone with their
neighbour from S. Pharamond. It was one
of those amusing little incidents which Providence,
who, she was sure, was kind to her, was
always sending her to relieve the monotony
of human life.

What were you doing under the sewell? '
she pursued. ' Is it your habit, too, never to
go to bed ? You must have been rowing sometime.
We are two sea leagues at least from
your place. What did you think of Cri-Cri's
ball . That new figure with the coloured hoops
was pretty ; but the Due leads a cotillon better
than anyone.'

'Admirable pre-eminence!' said Othmar.
I saw you with the coloured hoops. You made
them look as if Ariel had just brought them
from Titania. But I do not think the charm
was in the hoops themselves.'

 If you had cared to lead a cotillon, Othmar,
you might have been a happier man.'

That I do not doubt ; the frivolous faculty
is a very happy one.'

At all events, though you despise it, you

are indulgent to it. You gave us superb
presents at your own fete. Come in to breakfast.
I would not admit it if Plato were here,
but it is cold.'

And surely it is not very wise to be in the
cold after a ball  '

That is what they all said, so I came. I
have not much sympathy with children, but
I do understand why they like to do a thing
for no other reason than that they are told not
to do it. My physicians pretend that morning
air is as bad as damp shoes, but I believe they
say that to be agreeable to their patients who
turn night into day. It is not only Moliere's
doctors who are charlatans. I imagine it is the
perpetual affectation of sympathy which doctors
are compelled to put on which makes them
hypocrites. Come into the house.'

He went on in silence beside her along the
bay path. He could not easily talk of trifles
with her ; she had filled all his life for two
whole years ; he loved her as he had loved no
other woman. When he had returned home
from the Milloo ball, he had bathed and swam
in the little bay of S. Pharamond, and then had
rowed himself along the coast in that vague

irresistible desire to pass near where she
dwelt which every true lover feels.

He had resolved to emancipate himself from
her power ; as he had watched her through the
night he had told himself that to care for her
was to waste life on a baseless and ungrateful
dream. Yet, when she had looked down from
her evergreen rampart, and had said ' Come,'
he had been unable to resist.

As he paced beside her now, the delicate
perfume of her laces, the floating, indefinite
lines of the rose-satin draperies, the glimpse of
her profile which the hood showed, her slender
feet in their rose-coloured pearl-sewn slippers,
which stepped so lightly over the shining
shingle of the paths  one and all they conquered
his calmness and his resolves, as the
fumes of new wine mount over the brain and
move the senses. She walked on, provocative
as Venus, unattainable as Una, speaking idly of
this thing and of that, knowing very well what
made his answers all at random and his colour
changeful. Other women might need to use
all the arts of conquest ; might need to woo
with their eyes, to charm with their smiles, to
solicit with their glances. She had no such

vulgar fashions ; lie moved, spoke, looked, as
the moment actuated her, and noticed her
lovers hardly more than she noticed the little
dog that ran after her skkts. To exist and
to be seen was enough to secure her more
victories than she chose to count.

If she noticed Othmar more than others it
was because he had gone away from her, he
had rebuked her, he had appeared to defy her,
and he had dared to tell her he loved her with
more reproach, and more bitterness of soul than
any other had ever done. She did not intend
to accept his life, or to give him hers ; but she
did intend that his should be unable to detach
itself. And all the while she talked to him
with that easy, even kindness, as of a friend,
with those light philosophies of a woman of
the world, which were to the passions of a
man as ether spray thrown upon a lava-flood ;
and she took him into breakfast with her as
though he were her brother.

She occasionally drank her chocolate in a
boudoir opening on to the terrace ; a little nest
of white satin and looking-glass and Saxe china ;
the ceiling was a mirror painted with little doves
and flowers ; the carpet was of lambskins ;

the corners were filled with azaleas, rose and
white, like her gown. She looked only a larger
flower as she sank down on one of the conches.
The chocolate was served on Moorish trays, in
Turkish cups, by a little negro who, gorgeous in
his dress and immovable as a statue, was often
taken by new comers for an enamelled bronze
cast by Barbedienne, so motionless did he
squat before the door of any room she occupied.
Othmar almost envied that little
African menial the right he had to see his mistress
pass and repass a hundred times a day.
Nadine, in her nonchalant way, was kind to
the boy.

'He will die of pneumonia,  they always
do,' she said now.  Poor dusky little beetles,
they only live by their hot sand and their hot
sun ; to be sure, our houses inside are as hot as
Africa, but outside, the east wind blows, and
one day it will blow too much for Mahmoud.
I suppose it would be a terrible thing for
civilisation if the East ever again surged over
the West; but the East has very much to
avenge, and I am not sure that civilisation
would be any great loss. It has discovered
that man is only a sort of hotbed for bacteria,

and that butter can be made out of river mud,
and coffee out of powdered tan.'

She had taken the hood off her head ; she
was as charming as a child freshly out of a
bath, with her eyes brilliant and her cheeks a
little warmed by the transition from the chill
air of early morning to the room heated to 30
Reaumur. She had tossed herself backwards
amongst the white satin cushions. Her eyes,
which were like onyx, dwelt on him with a
gleam of amusement ; her beautiful mouth had
the smile which was so enigmatical, so gay,
and yet so cold. Lie had had a different
smile when she had said to little Mahmoud,
Cover yourself warmly here ; though the sunshines,
it is not African.'

'What has that black brat done that you
are so merciful to him ? ' asked Othmar.

She replied : ' That bLack brat is a victim
of civilisation. I hate civilisation, as you
know. It even adulterates truffles.'

Did you ever smile so kindly on your own
children ?'

I cannot say. I do not count my smiles.
That poor little slave is interesting, he is an exile,
and he will die in a year or two ; my children

are insufferably uninteresting ; they have unchangeable
health, intense stupidity, and will
grow up to have every desire fulfilled, every
caprice gratified, and to become that irresponsible,
useless, tyrannical, anachronism  a
Eussian noble. Perhaps they will be good
soldiers and kill a score of Asiatics. Perhaps
they will only drink brandy, and gamble

Othmar did not reply ; he was looking at
the exquisite grace of her form, the tea-rose
tint of her cheeks. Was it possible that she
could be the mother of two stout, ugly, Tartar-faced
boys ? It seemed to him a profanation ; a
hideous incongruity. He did not like to think
of it. If she had had a child at all it should
have been some blossom-like creature, sharing
her own grace as the catkin shares the
willow's. The subtlest charm about her was
that ethereality, as of a virginal goddess, which
was blent in her with all the finesses of seduction
and of mind. The boldest man felt
that in NadineNapraxine the senses had hardly
more empire than in the ivory Venus of
the Greeks.

The eyes of Othmar dwelt on her now
yearningly, sombrely, wistfully.

It is of no use,' he said, abruptly. ' I did
wrong to come here. If you wish for men
who can, whilst they adore you, sit and drink
chocolate and talk epigrams, seek elsewhere ;
I am not one of them. I can wear a mask,
but it must be of iron, not of velvet.'

The iron mask was of velvet,' said she,
correcting him, unmoved by the repressed
passion in his voice. ' All our illusions vanish
under the electric light of history, and the iron
mask is one of them. I daily expect to hear
that Marie Antoinette was never guillotined,
but succumbed at seventy to dropsy at Scions
; we know it is proved that Jeanne d'Arc
married and died, bonne bourgeois at Orleans,
and her family enjoyed a pension for three
generations from the town. It is very distressing,
but it is all proved fromr-ther chives.
Why shouldn't you drink chocolate ? Perhaps
you do not like it. Men like nothing that has
sugar in it, except flattery. Being. They will
bring you anything else.'

Othmar looked at her without speaking.
Something of the impotent rage against her
with which he had left her in Paris awoke in
him under the sting of her ever dulcet tones, in

which a little tone of mockery could be felt
rather than heard.

He rose abruptly.

Have you never loved anyone ? ' he asked.

She lifted her eyebrows with impatience
and astonishment.

Vous voila emhalU ! Dear Othmar, I
should like you so much if you would not
always revert to that old theme. You area
man of the world, or you ought to be one.
Be amusing, even be instructive if you like ; I
do not mind behig instructed, but do not be
romantic. Nobody is nowadays ; not even the
novelists.'

Othmar appeared scarcely to hear her.

Did you never love anyone ? ' he repeated.

She laughed a little.

'You speak as if I were forty years old,
with a cabinet full of old letters and faded
roses ! No ; I never loved anybody, not even
Plato ! '

The notion su(]jested in her Last Avoids
tickled her fancy so much that she laughed
outright.

I suppose,' she continued, ' somewhere in
the world there are women who have loved

Plato ; but it seems too funny. He is always
eating when he is not drinking ; he is always
smoking when he is not sleeping ; admettons
done, that Cupid must fly from his presence.
How grave you look. I believe you have
something of the Eastern in you, and think that
all women should be prostrate before their
husbands. There is a good deal of that idea
among the moulins ; it must be very agreeable
for the man.'

Why did you marry him ? ' said Othraar,
gloomily ; it hurt his sense of honour to speak
of Napraxine in Napraxine's house ; yet he
could not repress the question.

Oh, my friend, why do girls always
marry P ' she said, indifferently. Because
the marriage is there ; because the families
have arranged it ; because one does not
know ; because one wishes for freedom, for
jewels, for the world ; because one does not
care to be a villette, chaperoned at every
step. There are many reasons that make one
marry : it is the thing to do  everyone does it ;
when a girl sees the young married women,
she sees them flirted with, sought, monopolising
everything; it is like standing behind a shut

door and hearing people laughing and singing
on the other side, while you cannot get to
them ; besides, Plato did as well as anybody
else, he is more good-natured than inmost ; he
never interferes ; he is very peaceable '

How long ago is it ? Five years  six ?
Why could I not meet you before ? '

She smiled, not displeased.

It is seven years. Oh, I do not think it
would have done at all ; you are too arrogant ;
we should have quarrelled before a month was
out. Besides, I should have tormented you
to do all manner of impossibilities ; with your
immense power, I should have expected you to
buy me an empire.'

Othmar was very pale ; the possibility of
which she jested so airily was one he could
not think of without a mist before his eyes,
a quickening of his heart. He hesitated to
say what rose to his lips ; she would only call
it vieux veil

I think you might be a great man,
Othmar, if you were not Othmar,' she pursued.

I do not feel the capabilities,' he replied.

That is because you are what you are,' she
answered. ' You are something like a king of

England. A king of England might have
all the talents, but he could never be a great
man because his position binds him hand and
foot, and makes a lay figure of him. You are nota
lay figure, but the very fact that you are Otho
Othmar prevents your being anything besides.
I think, if I were you, I should buy some great
sunshiny fantastic eastern kingdom, and reign
there ; you might lead the life of a Harum
Alraschid, and forget all about our stupid
Europe with its big dinners, its blundering
politics, its unreal religions, and its hideous
dress.'

A charming dream  if you were with me.'

Oh, no ; you would not Avant me ; you
would have two thousand slaves, each more
beautiful than the others.'

All my life I shall want you ! '

He spoke under his breath. He was leaning
back in his chair ; his face was cold, almost
stern, but his eyes were ardent and full of
passion. All night at Milloo he had sworn to
himself that never again would he succumb
to her influence or allow her to triumph in
the power she possessed over him, but in her
presence he was unnerved, and unable to keep

silent. She, lying back amongst her cushions,
glanced at him milder her long lashes, and
understood very well the strife which went on
in his soul ; the pride of manhood which combatted
the impulses of passion ; the impetus
which could not be resisted, the impatience of
his own weakness which vibrated through his
confession.

What was the use of your going to Mongolia
; you could not escape me,' she thought,
with a little of that contemptuous indulgence
which she always felt for her lovers' follies,
and a little of a newer and more personal gratification
; for Othmar touched a certain chord in
her mind, a certain pulse in her heart, which
others had not done. There was nothing
commonplace or trivial in him. There was a
vague power, amused but existent, which commanded
her respect. Nadine Napraxine despised
the world too heartily herself not to
have sympathy with the indifference he felt for
his own potentialities and possessions. He was
one of the masters of the world, and he only
wished for one thing on earth  herself. There
was a flattery in that which pleased even her,
sated with component though she was. There

were moments when she thought that if she
had met him before, as he said, there would
have been less ennui and more warmth in lier
life. ' Only we should have been so sure to
have tired of each other,' she reflected. ' People
always do ; it is the fault of marriage ; it
compels people at the onset to see so much of
one another that they have nothing new left
with which to meet the future. If you heard
the best of Bach every day, you would get
to hate Bach as intensely as you hate a street
organ ; the music would still be perfect, but
it could not withstand incessant repetition.
We should have been quite typically in love
for a few months ; I am sure we should ;
but then we should have each gone our several
ways, and in the end he would have been
hardly better than Plato.'

Aloud, however, she only said, with a little
smile :

You should never say things straight out
like that, Othmar. You should never go beyond
a suggestion. The world has spoilt you
so greatly that it has let you get blunt. It is
a pity. When I talk to people I al ways feel as
Boucher said he felt when he talked with his

VOL. I. B B

lady-love. " J'aime tout ce qu'elle va dire ; je
n'aime rien qu'elle dit." If we could only
always remain at the stage when we are just
going to speak ! '

Othmar did not reply. His face was very
pale ; it had a set stern look, as though he
exercised great self-repression. He was angered
against himself for being there ; for having let
her lead him thither merely to be made the
sport of her subtle and sarcastic intelligence. It
seemed to him that if his passion were unwelcome
to her his presence should be unwelcome
too.

She guessed his thoughts with that rapid
intuition which is the gift of such minds as
hers.

'Oh, I am not like that,' she said, with some
unspoken amusement ; ' I am not startled at a
confession like yours, as a horse starts at a pistol
shot. It seems to me that men are never
happy unless they are talking in that kind of
way to some woman who does not belong to
them. They are so like children ! In Petersburg,
last year, I saw Sachs crying for a sentinel's
cartouche-box because he could not
have it. He had all Giroux's shop in his own

nursery, but that did not do. You are like
Sachs. Ought I to ring the bell and dismiss
you? Why should I? I do not think so.
Only very primitive beings take fright at
declarations. Besides, you made me so many
in Paris, and then you went to the Mongols.
I never knew why you went to the Mongols ;
why did you go ? '

'Wounded brutes always get away somewhere
to be unseen as long as their wound
bleeds,' said Othmar, with some bitterness.

How Sachs cried for that cartouche-box ! '
she said, as she lit a cigarette. ' His women
scolded him, but I said to them, '' Wliy do you
scold him ? He is a male creature ; therefore
he must weep for what he cannot get." Some
children cry for the moon ; a moon, or a ,
or a woman, the principle is the
same.'

Othmar rose and approached her. He
seemed scarcely to have heard her jest.

Nadege, hear me a moment,' he said, in a
low tone, through whose enforced calmness there
was the thrill of an intense passion. ' You are
not alarmed at declarations ; they are nothing
to you, you neither requite nor reject them;

B B 2

Princess NAFRAXINE.

they amuse you, that is all. You are used todo
just what you please with men ; I understand
that you despise them so far as you deign
to think of them seriously.'

Despise, no ! ' she said, with a little gesture
of depreciation ; 'that is too strong. Why
should I despise them for acting according to
their natures? I do not desire cartouche-boxes
myself, but I did not despise Sachs.'

I told you in Paris,' pursued Othmar,
that I would not add one to the hist of those
Avhom you have made ridiculous in the eyes of
the world. I will be all to a woman, or
nothing to her. You would have let me swell
the cortege that marks your triumphal passage ;
you would have let me fill the place that Lord
Geraldine occupies now. You would have
allowed me to drive with you, dine with you,
come in and out of your house, take your husband
away when he bored you, do everything
that Lord Geraldine is permitted to do now ;
and you would have repaid me as you repay
him, by a little laugh, a smile now and then, a
vague liking which would have grown, little by
little, into contempt ! I Avould not accept that
place in your household. I would not then.

I left you, though it cost me more than you
would ever know or pity, for you do not
understand what love is. I Event away ; I desired
to escape from you. I did escape. I
desired also to forget you, but I could not
forget. You are not a woman who can be forgotten
; you are like one of those misericordia
with which they stabbed men in the Valois
days, that look like mere threads of silver
sheathed in velvet, and yet can go home
through breast and bone, and kill more surely
than swords that are as high as a man's
shoulder '

He paused a moment ; he breathed quickly
and heavily ; she looked up, holding her little
cigarette suspended :

I am like a great many things,' she murmured
; ' I thought Wilkes exhausted all possibilities
in comparison this morning. Go on !
you are very entreprenant, but it rather becomes
you ; you may go on if you Hke.'

He dropped on his knee beside her :

No, I would not be what Geraldine is ;
you tolerate him now, to scorn him immeasurably
hereafter. His own weakness will be the
measure of your scorn. He has never dared to

say to you what I said to you in Paris, what I
say now : love me, or I will not see your face
again, except as society may compel me to see
it in a crowd. Listen, Nadhie ! I love you,
only you ; I never thought to love any woman
so ; but I love you as men did in the old
times, and there is nothing I will not surrender
to you save my own self-respect. If to meet
you, to touch your hand, to hear your voice,
I must come and go like a dog in your husband's
house, petted one day, chidden the next,
absurd in my own sight and emasculated in the
sight of others, I will wrench my love for you
out of my life if my life goes with it ! Last
night I heard someone who did not know him
inquire who Geraldine was ; someone else answered
him, " Oh, that is one of Princess
Napraxine's encircles ; she never looks at him,
but he is content to follow her shadow." You
know me very little if you believe I would
ever let the world speak of me like that. I
told you in Paris I would never be the trembling
valet of a bloodless Platonism ! '

She looked at him, and a gleam of admiration
passed into her eyes for a moment ; she
breathed a trifle more quickly ; she thought to

herself : 'He is superb when he looks and
speaks like that ! Best un homme celui-la ! '

She did not speak, she leaned back amongst
her cushions with a little look of expectancy
upon her face ; the whole thing pleased her, as
some admirable piece of acting on the boards
of the Theatre Francis pleased at once her
eye, her ear, and her taste.

But Othmar was passionately in earnest ;
all his heart was in his hips, all his passions
had found voice. He could scarcely see her
for the red mist that swam before his eyes,
for the tumult of his senses. He dropped on
his knee beside her.

Nadine,' he murmured, as his forehead
touched her hand, ' I have told you what I
will not do ; let me tell you what I will do. I
will do as you say, I will buy some sunlit
kingdom far away in the heart of Asia, and I
will take you to it and obey every breath of
your mouth as my one divine law. I will turn
my back on Europe once and for ever ; I will
let men call me a coward, a fool, an infidel ;
what they will ; I will give all my present and
all my future to you and to you alone ; all I
possess shall only exist to minister to you ; I

will be your slave, body and mind and will ;
but only so  only if you give yourself to me as
absolutely in return, only if you come with me
where nothing of this world Avhicli we have
known shall pursue us to remind me that you
were ever else than mine.'

His forehead burned her hand as it touched
her, his voice was passionate in its emotion and
eloquence, his heart beat so loudly that it was
audible in the stillness around them. For once
she was touched, almost awed ; for once the
electricity of the passion she excited communicated
something of its fire and thrill to her.
She was silent a few moments, her eyelids
closed, her hips parted, she felt a vague
pleasure in the contact of this intense and
imperious love. He saw upon her delicate
features a change of colour, a flicker of emotion,
which no one else had ever seen there ; but
she motioned him farther away from her with
that dislike to any concession and that sensitive
hauteur which but added to her charm.

She smiled a little, but there was an accent
which was almost tenderness in her voice as
she said to him : ' C'est de ne rien perdre de
beaucoup prier ! ' You evidently have belief

in that saying. It is to ask a very great deal,
but then you would give a great deal in your
turn. Go away now ; I will think. No, I
shall not answer you ; I want time for thought.
Be satisfied that I am not offended, and go.
I ought to be so, I suppose, but I am not.
Go.'

I may come back ? '

His heart beat eagerly and exultantly. He
was not refused or dismissed ! ' Chateau qui
parle, femme qui scouted  the old proverb
drifted through his thoughts, all confused as
they were in a tumult of hope and desire, and
triumph and doubt. A moment's hesitation
from her was more concession than a thousand
caresses from a humbler woman.

 I may come back ? ' he repeated, as she
remained silent.

If you like, we shall meet in other places ;
yes, you may return in a fortnight  at this
time  in this room, then I will tell you.'

In a fortnight ! '  it seemed to him to be
ten years.

Be thankful for so much,' she said, as she
gave him the tips of her fingers. * Now go.
Mahmoud is in the antechamber.'

He kissed her Land with hips that burned
like fire, bowed low and obeyed her. Nadine
Napraxine remained motionless, her eyes were
closed, her mouth smiled ; she seemed to
dream.

THE END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,

-fe.:?v

:A

ij(i /

Digitized by the Internet Archive

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princessnapraxin02ouid

BY

Ordain

THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

iconium
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved]

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

CHAPTEE XIV.

When her husband and her guests came
downstairs at one o'clock, they found the
Princess Nadine looking her loveliest.

4 Oh, you lazy people ! ' she cried to them.
Are you any the better for sleeping like that ?
Look at me. I have been swimming half an hour ;
I have dictated twenty letters ; I have scolded
the gardeners, and I have seen three boxes from
Worth unpacked ; it is only one o'clock, and I
can already feel as good a conscience as Titus.
I have already saved my day.'

I daresay you have only been doing mischief,'
said LadyBrancepeth. 'I should like to
see the letters before I judge of the excellence
of your actions.'

Anyone might see the letters ; they are all
orders, or invitations, or refusals of invitations ;

VOL. II. B

quite stupid, but very useful ; epistolary omnibus
horses driven by the secretary. When I
had done with them, I had my half hour's
swim. What nonsense the doctors talk about
not swimming in winter : the chill of the water
is delicious. In summer one always fancies
the sea has been boiled. Plato, if you had
not gone to bed, you would have seen your
friend Othmar. He was here for half an hour.'
' Othmar ! ' exclaimed the Prince. ' Hereat
that time of the morning ? '

He does not want to go to sleep,' she
retorted. ' He had his chocolate with me, and
then rowed himself back to S. Pharamond
and Baron Fritz.'

Lady Brancepeth glanced at her.

4 You have certainly done a great deal,
Nadine, while we have been only dozing,' she
said drily. The Princess looked at her good-humouredly,
with her little dubious smile.

There is always something to do if one
only look for it. You feel so satisfied with
yourself too when you have been useful before
one o'clock.'

Othmar ! ' repeated the Prince. ' If I had
known, I would have come downstairs.'

\ My clear Plato, you would have done
nothing of the kind ; you would have sworn
at your man for disturbing you, and would
have turned round and gone to sleep again.
Besides, what do you want with Othmar?
You do not care about "getting on a good
thing," nor even about suggesting a loan. for
Odessa.'

I like Othmar,' said Napraxine with perfect
sincerity. His wife looked at him, with
her little dubious smile. 'It is always so with
them,' she thought. ' They always like just the
one man of all others ! '

I suppose, if I had done quite what I
ought, I should have asked Othmar to " put
me on " something,' she said aloud. ' It is not
every day that one has one of the masters of
the world all alone at eight o'clock in the
morning.'

1 The masters of the world always find their
Cleopatra,' said Lady Brancepeth. ' At La
Jacquemerille, perhaps, as well as in Egypt.'

Cleopatra must have been a very stupid
woman,' said Nadine Napraxine, ' to be able
to think of nothing but that asp ! '

4 1 do not know that it was so very stupid ;

B 2

it was a good reclame. It has sent her name
down to us.'

'Anthony alone would have done that. A
woman lives by her lovers. Who would have
heard of Eloise, of Beatrice, of Leonora
teste? '

You are very modest for us. Perhaps
without the women the men might never have
been immortal.'

I cannot think why you sent Othmar
away,' repeated Prince Napraxine. ' I wanted
especially to know if they take up the Russian
loan '

I did not send him away, he went,' replied
his wife, with a little smile ; ' and you know
he will never allow anyone to talk finance
to him.'

1 That is very absurd. He cannot deny that
his House lives by finance.'

1 He would certainly never deny it, but he
dislikes the fact ; you cannot force it on him,
my dear Plato, in the course of breakfast chitchat.
I am sure your manners are better than
that. Besides, if you did commit such a rudeness,
you would get nothing by it. I believe he
never tells a falsehood, but he will never tell

the truth unless he chooses. And I suppose,
too, that financiers are like cabinet ministers 
they have a right to lie if they like.'

'I am sure Othmar does not lie,' said
Napraxine.

I dare say he is as truthful as most men of
the world. Truth is not a social virtue ; tact
is a much more amiable quality. Truth says
to one, ' You have not a good feature in your
face ; ' tact says to one, ' You have an exquisite
expression.' Perhaps both facts are equally
true ; but the one only sees what is unpleasant,
the other only sees what is agreeable. There
can be no question which is the pleasant
companion.'

1 Othmar has admirable tact '

'How your mind runs upon Othmar!
Kings generally acquire a great deal of tact
from the obligation to say something agreeable
to so many strangers all their lives. He is a
kind of king in his way. He has learnt the
kings' art of saying a few phrases charmingly
with all his thoughts elsewhere. It is creditable
to him, for he has no need to be popular,
he is so rich.'

1 Ask him to dinner tomorrow or Sunday.'

4 If you wish. But lie will not come ; lie
dislikes dinners as much as I do. It is the
most barbarous method of seeing one's friends.'

There is no other so genial.'

She rose with a little shrug of her
shoulders. She seldom honoured Napraxine
by conversing so long with him.

Order the horses, Ealph,' she said to Lord
Geraldine ; 'I want a long gallop.'

1 She has had some decisive scene with
Othmar,' thought Lady Brancepeth, 'and she
is out of humour ; she always rides like a Don
Kossack when she is irritated.'

There is no real riding here,' said the
Princess, as she went to put on her habit. ' One
almost loves Eussia when one thinks of the way
one can ride there ; of those green eternal
steppes, those illimitable plains, with no limit
but the dim grey horizon, your black Ukraine
horse, bounding like a deer, flying like a
zephyr ; it is worth while to remain in Eussia
to gallop so, on a midsummer night, with nota
wall or a fence all the way between you and
the Caspian Sea. I think if I were always in
Eussia I should become such a poet as Maikoff:
those immense distances are inspiration.'

She rode with exquisite grace and spirit ;
an old Kossack had taught her, as a child, the
joys of the saddle, on those lonely and dreamful
plains, which had always held since a certain
place in her heart. That latent energy and
daring, which found no scope in the life of the
world, made her find pleasure in the strong
stride of the horse beneath her, in the cleaving
of the air at topmost speed. The most indolent
of mondaines at all other times, when she
sprang into the saddle as lightly as a bird on a
bough, she was transformed ; her slender
hands had a grip of steel, her delicate face
flushed with pleasure, the fiery soul of her
fathers woke in her  of the men who had
ridden out with their troopers to hunt down
the Persian and the Circassian ; who had swept
like storm-clouds over those shadowy steppes
which she loved ; who had had their part or
share in all the tragic annals of Eussia ; who
had slain their foes at the steps of the throne,
in the holiness of the cloister ; who had been
amongst those whose swords had found the
heart of Catherine's son, and whose voices had
cried to the people in the winter's morning,
8 Paul, the son of Peter, is dead ; pray for his

soul I ' If she were cruel  now and then 
was it not in her blood ?

Meanwhile Yseulte was helping her foster-mother
to pack tea-roses, to go to England fora
great ball, in their little hermetically-sealed
boxes. The roses were not wholly opened
before they were thus shut away from light
and air into darkness. They would not wither
in their airless cells, but they would pale a
little in that dull sad voyage from the sunshine
to the frost and fog. As she laid the rosebuds,
pink, white, and pale yellow,  one by one
on their beds of moss, she thought for the first
time wistfully that her fate was very like theirs ;
only the rosebuds, perhaps, when they should
be taken out of their prisons at their journey's
end, though they would have but a very few
hours of life before them, yet would bloom a
little, if mournfully, in the northern land, and
see the light again, if only for a day. But her
life would be shut into silence and darkness forever;
she would not even live the rose's life
Space dun matin!

When Othmar went out from her presence, he
was more near to happiness than he had been
in his whole thirty years of life. He was
filled with vivid, palpitating, intoxicated hope.
He was passionately in love, and almost he
believed himself beloved in return. As much
as she had allowed to him she had certainly
allowed to no living man. The very force of
his passion, which had driven him to scorn the
conventional court which he might have paid
her in common with so may others  the
spaniel's place of Geraldine, the slave's place of
Boris Seliedoff  rendered him as willing to set
no limits to the sacrifices which she should
be free to exact from him, and he be proud to
make. Only he would never share her, even
in nominal union with her lawful lord. He
would be all to her, or nothing.

He loathed the conventional adulteries of
his time and of his society ; he sighed, impatiently

for the means to prove that the old
fearless, high-handed, single-hearted passion
which sees in the whole teeming world only
one life, was not dead, but lived in him for
her.

He foresaw all the loss of freedom and of
fair repute which would be entailed on him
by the surrender of his life to her ; he knew
well that she was a woman who would be no
docile companion or exacting mistress ; he
knew that there were in her the habits of
dominance, the instincts of egotism, and that
esprit gouailleur which compelled her, almost
despite herself, to jest at what she admired, to
ridicule her better emotions, to make a mockery
of the very things which were the dearest to her.
He did not because he loved her become blind
to all that was cold, merciless, and capricious in
her nature ; he was conscious that she would
never lose her own identity in any passion,
never surrender her mind, even if she gave her
person, to any lover ; he knew that she would
always remain outside those tropic tempests
of love which she aroused and controlled, and
which offended her or flattered her, according
to the mood in which they found her.

He knew all these things, and was aware
that his future would not be one of peace. But
he loved her, and agitation, jealousy, suffering
beside her would, he felt, be sweeter to him
than any repose beside another. Even these
defects, these dangers, which he clearly perceived,
added to her sorcery for him. It is
the mistress who is indifferent who excites the
most vehement desires ; and, by reason of his
great fortunes, women had been always to him
so facile, so eager, and so easily won, that the
coldness of Nadine Napraxine, which he knew
was a thing of temperament, not of affectation,
had but the more irresistible power over him.
The very sense with which she impressed everyone,
himself as well as others, of being no more
to be held or relied upon than the snowflake,
to which her world likened her, attracted a
man who had, from his boyhood, been wearied
by the adulation, insistence, and sycophancy
of almost all who approached him.

The few days of his probation passed slowly
over his head, seeming as though they would
never end. He was restless, feverish, and
absent of mind ; Friederich Othmar, who,
contrary to all his usual habits, remained at

S. Pharamond, tranquilly ignoring the visible
impatience of his host at his unasked presence,
was sorely troubled by the alternate exhilaration
and anxiety of spirit which all the reserve
and self-possession of Othmar himself could not
wholly conceal from the penetration of a person
accustomed to divine and dive into the innermost
recesses of the minds of men.

What, in God's name, is he meditating ?
thought his uncle. ' Some insanity probably.
I should believe he was about to disappear
from the world with Madame Napraxine if
I were not so persuaded that her pride and her
selfishness will never permit her to commit
a folly for anyone. Morality is nothing to her,
but her position is a great deal ; her delight in
being insolent will never allow her to lose the
power of being so.'

So accurately did this man of the world
read a character which baffled most persons by
its intricacy and its anomalies.

To Friederich Othmar human nature presented
many absurdities but few secrets.

He remained at S. Pharamond, despite his
own abhorrence of any place which was not a
capital. He passed his mornings in the consideration

of his correspondence and his telegraphic
despatches, but in the later hours of
the day and in the evenings he was that
agreeable member of society whom society had
known and courted for so many years ; and
beneath his pleasant subacid wit and his
admirable manner his acute penetration was
for ever en vegetate to penetrate his nephew's
purpose and preoccupation. But a lover, on
his guard, will baffle an observer whom the
keenest of statesmen would, in vain, seek to
deceive or mislead, and the Baron learned
nothing of Othmar's inmost thoughts. Although
Othmar and Nadine JNapraxine met twice or
thrice in his presence at other people's houses,
and once at S. Pharamond itself, where some
more choice music was given one evening, the
acute blue eyes of the elder man failed to read
the understanding which existed between them.
All he saw was that she appeared to treat
Othmar, before others, with more raillery and
more nonchalance than usual. He remarked
that Othmar did not seem either hurt or surprised
at this.

Since he is as much in love with her
as ever, he must be aware of some intimacy

between them which renders him comparatively
insensible to her treatment of him in society,'
thought the sagacity of his uncle, who was
alarmed and disquieted by a fact which would
have reassured less fine observers  the fact that
the master of S. Pharamond did not . once,
during fifteen days, cross the mile or two of
olive-wood, orange orchard, and hanging field
which alone separated him from La Jacque-neville.


No love is so patient but on some promise,'
he reflected. He knew the romantic
turn of Othmar's character, and he feared its
results as others would fear the issue of some
mortal or hereditary disease. A week or two
previous the ministers then presiding over the
fortunes of France had met, at his little house
in the Eue du Traitor, the representatives of
two great Powers, and in the newspapers of
the hour that informal meeting, which had led
to many important results, had been called the
Unwritten Treaty of Baron Fritz ; and yet, at
such a moment, instead of being entranced with
such influence as such a nickname implied to
his House, instead of being occupied with the
power, the might, and the mission of the

Othmars, which that gathering around the
library-table in the Eue du Traitor displayed
for the ten thousandth time to the dazzled
eyes of suppliant and trembling Europe, Otho
himself could only think of a woman with
larger eyes and smaller hands than usual, buta
woman absolutely useless to him in any
ambitions  likely, rather, to be his ruin in all
ways !

I could understand it were she one of
the great political forces of the world. Some
women are that, and might so, to us, be of very
high value,' thought Friederich Othmar, ' but
Madame Napraxine is as indifferent to all political
movement as if she were made of the ivory
and mother-of-pearl which her skin resembles.
If she be anything, she is that horrible thing a
Nihilist, only because Nihilism embodies an
endless and irreconcilable discontent, which
finds in her some secret corner of vague sympathy.
But for politics in our meaning of the
word she has the most complete contempt.
What did she say to me the other day ? " I am a
diplomatist's daughter. I have seen the strings
of all your puppets. I cannot accept a Polichinelle
for a Richelieu, as you all do." And she declared

that if there were no statesmen at all, and
no journalists, life would go smoothly ; everybody
would attend to their own affairs, the
world would be quiet, and there would be no
wars. "What but disaster can such a woman
with such views bring into the life of Otho,
already paralysed as it is by poco-curantism ? '

He asked the question of himself in his own
meditations, and could give himself no answer
save one which grieved and alarmed him.

Othmar himself bestowed on his guest but
little thought except a passing impatience that
his uncle should have taken that moment, of all
others, to instal himself at S. Pharamond.

He had not the cynicism nor the insouciance
of the woman he adored. He did not attempt
any sophisms with his own conscience. He
knew that to do a man dishonour was to do
him a violence unkind, and perhaps even in a
way baser, than to take his life. But he was
ready to pledge himself to that which, unlike
her, he still considered was a sin. He was
entirely mastered by a force of passion which
she could have understood by the subtlety of
her intelligence, but was not likely ever to
share by any fibre of her nature. He was lost

in that whirlpool of emotion, anticipation, and
fear which carried his inner life away on it,
although his outer life remained in appearance
calm enough for no eyes save those of the
Baron to penetrate the disguise of his serenity.

Yseulte he had forgotten.

The simple and innocent tenderness which
she had momentarily aroused in him could not
hold its place beside the overwhelming passion
which governed him, more than a slender
soft-eyed dove can dispute possession with the
fierce, strong-pinioned falcon. Once or twice
he saw her and spoke to her with kindness, but
his thoughts were far away from her, and he
did not linger beside her, although each time
he chanced to meet her on the way to her
foster-mother's, in lonely lovely country paths,
which might well have tempted him to tarry.

On the thirteenth day of his probation, the
priest's gown which, to please her, he had
ordered for the church of S. Pharamond, arrived
at the chateau, and, his attention being drawn
to it by his servants, he remembered his promise
to her. It was the last day of the year. A
passing remembrance of pity came over him ashe
thought of her ; she was so entirely alone,

vol. 11. c

and she would go to the life of the cloister ; a
fancy came to him to do some little thing to
give her pleasure ; a mere evanescent breath of
innocent impulse, which passed like the cool
breeze of an April day, sweet with scent of
field flowers, across the heated atmosphere of
desire and expectation in which his soul was
then living. Conventional etiquette had seldom
troubled him greatly ; he had always enjoyed
something of that sense which princes have,
that whatever he did the world would condone.
A man of the exceptional power which he
possessed can always exercise on his contemporaries
more or less of his own will. Whatever
he might have done no one would have
said of him anything more severe than that he
was singular.

When he went into Nice that day he
chanced to see a very pretty thing, modern,
but admirable in taste and execution, a casket
of ivory mounted on silver, with a little angel
in silver on the summit. On its sides were
painted in delicate miniatures reproductions of
Fra Angelico and Botticelli. It was signed
by a famous miniatures, and cost ten thousand
francs. Othmar, to whom the price seemed

no more than ten centimes, bought it at
once.

It will please her,' he thought. ' It shall
go to her with the soutane ; ' and he sent it
with the vestment to Milloo, addressed to Mademoiselle
de Valogne. His knowledge of etiquette
told him that he ought to send it, if he sent it
at all, through the Duchesse ; but he did not
choose to obey etiquette ; he had discarded
social rules, more or less, all his life, according
to his inclination, and people had not resented
his rebellion simply because he was who he
was. He utterly disobeyed etiquette now, and
sent his present direct to Yseulte very early
on the morning of the New Year.

It did not occur to him that he might only
run the risk of cruelly compromising the poor
child. He gave hardly more thought to the
action than he would have given to a rose
which he might have broken off its stalk to
offer to her. All his heart had gone with the
basket of flowers which he had sent at sunrise
to Nadine Napraxine, who allowed no other
offering.

The chances were a million to one that his
casket would never reach its destination without

c 2

being seen, if not intercepted, by the governesses
; but as it happened, his messenger gave
it to the gatekeeper, and the gatekeeper gave
it in turn to the woman who served her as
maid during her stay at Milloo, and who was
passing through the gates, on her way home
from matins. The woman was attached to her ;
indeed, being a religious person herself, considered
that Yseulte was the only creature whose
presence saved Milloo from the fate of Sodom
and Gomorrah ; therefore, pleased that the girl
should have pleasure, she carried the packet
straight to her as she rose from her bed ; and in
the cold, misty morning of the New Year the
first thing that greeted the astonished eyes of
Yseulte was the Coronation of the Virgin,
glowing like a jewel on the side of the ivory
casket.

The whole day passed to her in an enchanted
rapture.

In the large, idle, careless household there
was a general exchange of congratulations and
varennes, and a pleasant tumult of good wishes
and merriment. Blanchette and Toinon danced
about before a pyramid of bonbons and costly
playthings, and the Duchesse, descending at her

usual hour, two o'clock, gave and received a
multitude of felicitations, gifts, and visits. ' The
most tedious day of the whole three hundred
and sixty-fives she said pettishly, giving her
cheek to the touch of her children's pale little
lips.

In the many occupations and ennuis of
the day no one heard or knew anything of
Othmar's present. At noon some bouquets of
roses and some orchids, laid on a plate of old
cloisonne enamel, were brought in his name to
Madame de Vannes, but she knew nothing of
her cousin's casket. Meanwhile nothing could
hurt Yseulte. The contempt with which her
little cousins received the gifts she had made for
them in the convent, the oblivion. to which she
was consigned by every one, the carelessness
with which the Duchesse received her timidly-offered
good wishes, the severity with which
the governesses forbade her to go out in such
weather to see Nicolee or attend Mass in the
little church, the unconcealed ill-temper with
which Alain de Vannes flung her a word of
greeting  none of these things had any power
to wound her ; she scarcely perceived them ;
she was lifted up into a world all her own.

Unnoticed in the general brahe-bas of the clay,
she passed the hours, when she was not at
Mass in the chapel, locked safely in her own
room, before her treasure, in a rapt happiness,
in a wonder of ecstasy, which were so intense
that she feared they were cardinal sins.

The weather was cold, some snow had even
fallen, and the north winds blew, making all the
chilly foreigners gathered on those shores
shiver and grumble like creatures defrauded of
their rights ; but all the grey, cheerless, misty
landscape, and the fog upon the sea, appeared
more beautiful to her than they had ever done
before in its sunshine. From her window she
looked at the towers of S. Pharamond, and
on her table  all her own  was the ivory
casket.

The Duchesse de Yannes, waking in the
forenoon after the Jour de lean, cross, peevish,
sleepy, and yet sleepless, which is, in itself, the
most irritating and dispiriting of all human
conditions, and morbidly conscious that, as her
little daughter had said, she was beginning to
laisser tin jeu, was in a mood of natural resentment
against all creation in general and the
human race in particular, and quite ready to

vent .her ill-humour on the first object which
offered itself. That first object was one of the
little prim notes by which her children's instructresses
were wont to communicate any
terrible event in the schoolroom, or any entreaty
for guidance when Mademoiselle Blanched
had insisted on riding the wooden horses
at a village fair, or Mademoiselle Toinon had
dressed herself up in the smallest groom's
clothes. 4 Ne m'ennuyez pas ; vous savez vos
devoirs ' was the only reply they ever received ;
but the good women continued to write the
notes as a relief to their consciences. They
wrote one now, signed in their joint names,
humbly entreating to be informed if it were
the pleasure of Madame la Duchesse that
Mdlle. de Valogne should receive presents of
which the donor was unknown. Mdlle. de
Valogne was in possession of a new and very
valuable locket ; they believed also that she
was in the habit of going to the gardens
of S. Pharamond ; they had deemed it their
duty to acquaint Madame la Duchesse, &c, &c.
Blanchette, with the most innocent face in
the world, had said to them, ; I have seen the
big pearl locket of Yseulte ! Oh, vrai ! When

I am as old, I will not hide my handsome
things as she does. Who gave it her ? Who
do you think could give it to her? She is
friends with that gentleman at S. Pharamond
the one that is as rich as M. de Rothschild.
I think he gave it her ! Do you tell mamma,'

Blanche te guessed very shrewdly that her
father had given the locket ; but she was too
wary to offend him. Blanchette was like the
little cats who steal round and round to their
mouse by devious paths unseen. She had
alarmed the governesses, and the prim note was
the consequence.

When the Duchesse read it, she flung it
away in a corner. ' Tas cV imbeciles J she said,
contemptuously; then said to one of her maids,
Request Mdlle. de Valogne to come hither.'

Yseulte was presented in a fortuitous moment
as the whipping-boy on whom could be
spent all that useless irritation which she could
not spend on the real offenders, her ineffective
chloral, her increasing wrinkles, and the indifference
of Raymond de Prangins.

Mamma is always cross,' the wise little
Blanchette had reflected. ' She is always angry,
even for nothing. That great baby will get

a lecture, and she will be sure to say it was
papa ; she always tells the truth  such a
simpleton !  and papa will hate her for ever
and for ever ! '

Then Blanchette made a pied che nez all by
herself in her little bedroom : when you were
a child you could not have many things your
own way, but you could spoil other people's
things very neatly with a little pat here, a little
poke there, if you looked all the while like
your picture by Baudry, an innocent cherub
with sweet smiling eyes, who could not have
made a pied de nez to save your life. Blanched
had already acquired the knowledge
that this was how the world was most easily
managed.

When Yseulte was summoned to her cousin's
presence, the girl was startled to see how old
she looked, for it was scarcely noon, and the
handsome face which ' Cri-Cri ' was wont to
present to her own world had scarcely received
its finishing touches from the various embellishing
petits secrets shut up in their silver
boxes and their china pots, which were strewn
about under the great Dresden-framed mirror
in front of her.

6 Good-day,' she said, with irritation already
in her voice, as Yseulte timidly kissed her hand.
Is this true what they tell me, that you receive
presents without my knowledge and consent ?
Do you not know that it is perfectly inconceivable
? Are you not taught enough of the
world in your convent to be aware that a
young girl cannot do such things without being
disgraced eternally? What is it you have
accepted ? Is it a jewel ? Can you realise the

enormity of your action? ' she paused, in

some irritation and uncertainty. ' Well, why
do you not speak ? Can you excuse yourself ?
What is it you have taken ? From whom have
you taken it? My people have told me you
have a new and valuable jewel and refuse to
say who gave it.'

'My cousin, M. le Due, gave it me,' said
Yseulte. ' He said that I was to tell you if you
asked me, but not anyone else.'

She spoke frankly, without any hesitation.
The Duchesse stared at her, half rose in her
amazement ; her face was dark with anger
for a moment, then cleared into a sudden
laughter.

My husband ! ' she echoed. ' A fillette like

you ! And they say there are no miracles
now ! Do you absolutely mean to say that
Alain gave you a jewel? '

He was so good as to give me a locket 
yes,' murmured Yseulte, conscious that her
cousin was angry, insolent, and derisive, and
afraid that the Due would be irritated at the
issue of his kindness to her.

Pray, has he given you anything else ? '
echoed Madame de Vannes. 'Has he given
you the diamonds he had bought for Mdlle.
Pubis, or the coupe from Bender's which he
meant for la franche Laure ? '

'He has not given me anything else,'
answered Yseulte, to whom these terrible names
conveyed no meaning.

Where is this locket ? Show it me.'

It is in my room. Shall I fetch it ? '

No, no. It does not matter. You can
send it me. I will send Agnes for it. The
idea of Alain having even looked at you ! 
it makes one laugh ; it is too absurd.'

She continued to laugh, but the laughter
did not convey to the ear of Yseulte any
impression either that she was pardoned or that
her cousin was amused. It was a laugh expressive

of irony, irritation, wonder, contempt,
rancour, all in one.

6 You should not have taken it. You should
have told me,' continued the Duchesse. ' To
be sure, he is your cousin. But it is not
proper to take a man's gifts. It is not becoming.
It is too forward. It is even immodest.
Is that the sort of tiling the Dames
de Ste. Anne have taught you? Surely you
might have known better.'

These phrases she uttered in a staccato
rapid succession, as if she thought little of
what she said ; she was indeed thinking as the
girl stood before her :

What a skin ! What shoulders ! What a
throat ! What a thing it is to be sixteen !
Why did not le bon Dieu make all that last
longer with us ? It goes too soon ; so horribly
soon ; after one is five-and-twenty it is all one
can do to make up decently. If it were only
the complexion which went it would not matter ;
that one can easily arrange ; but it is the
features that change ; they grow out or they
grow in ; the mouth gets thin or the cheeks get
broad ; the very lines alter somehow, and we
cannot alter that ; and then to make oneself up

is as much trouble as to build a house, and the
house has to be built anew every day !  it is
horribly hard  and yet one has compensations,
revenges ; it is not those children whom men
care to look at though they are fresh as roses ;
at least not usually. Alain, I suppose, does 
what can he mean by giving her a medallion ? '

While these thoughts ran through her
mind, she was staring hard at Yseulte through
her eyeglass, as though they had never met
before then. The girl had coloured scarlet at
the epithet ' immodest but it had made her a
little angry, with the righteous indignation of
innocence. Respect kept her mute, but her
face spoke for her.

Alain was right ; she is really handsome,'
reflected the Duchesse.

She was herself only eight-and-twenty, butin
the world as on the racecourse it is the
pace that kills ; and before she had passed
through all those arduous processes which she
had rightly compared to building a house anew
every day, she knew very well that she looked
cruelly old, though after two o'clock in the day
she was still one of the great beauties of France.

She had been immersed in pleasures, pastimes,

and excitements from the day of her
marriage ; she had lived in a crowd, she had
gambled not a little, and she had had certain
intrigues, of whose dangers she had at times a
vivid and anxious consciousness, for the Due
was indifferent but not base, and might any day
be roused if he came to be aware that men
laughed at him more than he liked. As a rule,
she and he understood each other very welland
tacitly condoned each other's indiscretions ;
but there might come a time when he would
break that convenient compact, as she felt disposed
now to resent his admiration of her
young cousin. On the whole, perhaps, she
mused, she had been wrong to do so ; shew
r ould let the girl keep his present ; he might,
if she provoked him, insist that Eaymond de
Prangins should leave Milloo. All these reflections
occurred to her during that one minute
in which her eyeglass watched the indignation
rise in Yseulte's face.

Have you seen M. de Vannes alone ? ' she
resumed, with a sharpness in her voice, due
rather to her own sense of the girl's beauty
than to her knowledge of her husband's admiration
for it.

Now and then,' said Yseulte without
hesitation. ' He has come into the schoolroom
'

For a lesson in A B C, I suppose ?  or a
cup of Brown's green tea ? ' said the Duchesse
contemptuously. ' Well, he may center ses
fleurettes ailleurs. I should have thought he
had had better taste than to begin in his own
house : however,' she continued, interrupting
herself, as she remembered that she was suggesting,
' I do not suppose it is you who are to
blame. But another time, ask my permission
before you accept anything from anybody. I
will not deprive you of the Due's gift. He is
in a manner your cousin  your guardian 
of course he meant very kindly, but another
time remember to come to me. You will tell
the Due that I said so.'

Good heavens ! ' she was thinking, ' who
would have supposed that Alain had a taste fora
creature like that, half a saint and half a
baby ? To be sure, her eyes are superb, and
the throat and bosom  what beautiful lines
they have ; why did they send her here ? She
shall go back next week. The wickedness of
the thing would charm him ; the nearer it was

to a crime, the more of a clou it would be. To
play Faust under the respectable shade of
Brown's teapot and the big dictionaries would
be sure to enthral him, out of its very drollery
men are made like that.'

Then a remembrance of S. Pharamond
passed over her, and she said aloud, with an
unkind sarcasm in her voice :

Perhaps you have other friends beside M.
de Vannes ? Pray tell me if you have. I fully
appreciate the effects of the education which
the Dames de Ste. Anne have given you.'

Yseulte coloured scarlet, and the Duchesse's
eyes scanned her face as Blanchette's had done,
without mercy.

c Pray tell me,' she continued, with a chill
dignity, which was in sharp contrast with the
sarcasm and railing of her previous manner.
You will be so good as to remember that I
stand in the place of your mother ; your indiscretions
are not alone painful to me, but compromising
to me. Is it true that you are
intimate with Otho Otlimar ? '

1 He has been kind to me,' murmured
Yseulte, an agony at her heart and the hot
tears standing in her eyes. She did not understand

enough of the world to justify herself by
the fact that the offender had been presented to
her by her cousin herself; nor, if she had done
so, would the position she stood in towards
Madame de Vannes have allowed her to use
such a justification without apparent impertinence.
For eight years she had owed everything
to the Duchesse.

8 Kind to you ! ' echoed her cousin, ' a most
fortuitous phrase, but not one that young girls
can employ except to their own ridicule and
injury. Pray how has he been kind to you?
has he given you a locket ? '

Yseulte might easily have told a lie ; no
one knew of the casket, no one could tell of it ;
she loved it more dearly than anything she had
ever possessed. But she had been taught in
her childhood that falsehood was cowardice,
and the courage of the de Valogne was in her ;
therefore she answered, with an unsteady voice
indeed, but with entire truthfulness, ' He has
given me a very beautiful box, it is made of
ivory and painted, it came yesterday '

Madame de Vannes burst into another
laugh, which jarred on the child's ear :

8 Really,' she cried, relapsing into the manner

VOL. II. D

most natural to her, ' you begin well ! Othmar
and my husband ! and you are not quite
sixteen yet, and we all thought you such a
little demure saint in your grey clothes ! Send
the casket to me. You cannot receive presents
in that way. From your cousin, passe encore,
but from a man like Othmar  you might as
well go and sup with him at Bignon's. Good
heavens ! What are Schemmitz and Brown
about that they have let you meet him?
Where have you seen him? how have you
become intimate with him ? '

Yseulte had become very pale. She had
done her duty ; done what honour, truth, obedience,
and gratitude all required ; but it had
cost her a great effort, and she would lose the
casket.

8 1 have only seen him three times,' she
said, with her colour changing ; and she went
on to tell the story of her visit to his gardens,
of his conversation with her on the seashore,
of the priest's soutane, and of their meeting
at the house of Nicolee. It was a very simple
inoffensive little story, but it hurt her greatly
to tell it ; cost her quite as much as it would
have done Madame de Vannes to unfold all

her manifold indiscretions in full confession
before a conseil famille.

1 He lias been very kind to me,' she said
timidly, as she finished her little tale, ' and if
if  if you would only let me keep the casket
and take it to Fairer ? '

The Duchesse laughed once more :
4 You do not care to keep the Due's locket
how flattering to him ! Eeally, Villette, you
are sagacious betimes ; I would never have believed
you such a cunning little cat ! Did you
learn all that at the convent ? you convent-girls
are more rushes than so many rats !
Othmar, of all men of the world ! My dear,
you might as well wish for an emperor. There
is not a marriageable woman in Europe who
does not sigh for Othmar ! He is so enormously
rich ! There is no one else rich
like that ; all the other financiers have a tribe
of people belonging to them. " The family " is
everywhere, at Paris, at Vienna, at Berlin, at
London, and have as many branches as the
oak ; but Othmar is absolutely alone  for old
Baron Fritz does not count  he is absolutely
alone, that is what is unique in him. Whoever
marries him will be the most fortunate woman

in Europe. Yes, I say it advisedly, it is fortune
that is power nowadays ; our day is over ; we
do not even lead society any longer.'

The colour had rushed back into Yseulte's
face ; the Duchesse's words tortured her as only
a very young and sensitive creature can be
tortured by an indelicate and cruel suspicion.
I never thought, I never meant,' she murmured.
' You know, my cousin, I am dedicated
to the religious life ; you cannot suppose
that I  I ' The words choked her.

Ne pleurnichez pas, de grace I ' said the
Duchesse impatiently. ' I have no doubt you
have taken all kinds of impossibilities into your
head, girls are always so foolish ; but you maybe
sure that the gift of the casket means nothing
nothing. Othmar is always giving away,
right and left ; most very rich men are mean, but
he is not. It was a wrong thing, an impertinent
thing, for him to do, and it must be returned
to him instantly ; but if you imagine you have
made any impression upon him, I can assure
you you are very mistaken, he only thinks of
Nadine Napraxine.'

Yseulte remained very pale ; her eyes were
cast down, her lips were pressed together. She

had done her duty and told the truth, but she
was not recompensed.

The Duchesse rang for her maids. To the
one who answered the summons, she said :
6 Accompany Mdlle. de Alone to her room,
and bring me a casket she will give you, which
is to be sold for the Little Sisters of the Poor.
Va-fen, YseulteJ

She put out her hand carelessly, and the
girl bent over her.

My cousin ! I have never seen him but
three times,' she murmured again. Her face
was very pale ; she had been wounded profoundly
by the Duchesse's words, even though
their full meaning was not known to her.

Madame de Vannes laughed again ; then,
with an assumption of dignity, which she could
take on at will, said coldly :

Once was too much. Never accuse accident
; no one believes in it. Eemember also,
that as one vowed to the service of Heaven, it
is already sin in you if you harbour one earthly
thought. Go, and send me the casket.'

Without another word Yseulte curtsied and
withdrew from her presence.

When the maid returned, she brought her

mistress the ivory casket ; but inside it was the
Due's medallion. Madame de Vannes laughed
yet again as she saw.

The little obstinate ! ' she murmured. ' It
is not often that Alain throws pearls, or anything
else away. And what a casket ! Heavens !
it is fit for a wedding gift to a queen. Is it
possible that Othmar No, it is not possible
; he would never think of a child like
that. Perhaps he did it to rouse Nadine.
What a cunning little pole cat these nuns have
sent me ! '

But a kind of respect awakened in her
towards her young cousin. A girl who could
charm Alain de Vannes and Othmar was not
to be dismissed scornfully as a novice and a
baby. The Duchesse drew some note-paper to
her, and wrote a little letter to her neighbour,
in which she expressed herself very admirably,

with dignity and grace, as the guardian of a

-

motherless child who was dedicated to the
service of Heaven. She suggested, without
actually saying so, that he had failed in reverence
towards Heaven, and towards the Maison
de Vannes and the Maison de Creusacc, in
permitting himself to offer gifts to Mdlle. de

Valogne ; she recalled to him, without any
positive expression of the sort, that a young
girl of noble descent could not be approached
with gifts as a young actress might be, and
that if any had been offered they should have,
at least, been offered through herself.

She was honestly irritated with Othmar for
having thus been wanting, as she considered,
in full respect for those great families from
which Yseulte de Alone had sprung. She
was excessively angry with her children's
governesses, whose negligence had rendered it
possible for the girl to wander about alone, and
she gave them a short but very terrible audience
in her dressing-room ; yet, on the whole,
the affair amused her a little, and the high-breeding
in her made her do justice to the
honour which had forced her young cousin to
tell unasked all the truth.

Later on she had a little scene with her
husband, half comic, half tragic, in which they
flung the tu quoque liberally one at the other,
apropos of many vagaries less innocent than
his fancy for Yseulte de Alone ; but she did
not tell him about Othmar's casket, for she
reasoned, with admirable knowledge of men's

natures, that they cared so much more if they
thought any one else cared too.

Meanwhile Yseulte, having given the casket
into the hands of the maid without a word or a
sign of regret, locked herself in, threw herself
on her bed, and sobbed as piteously as though
the magic box had been that of Pandora, and
bore all hope away within it.

CHAPTER XVI.

Nadine Napraxine kept her promise to Othmar.
She did for him what she had done for no
other human being ; she meditated on his
entreaties as a thing which might possibly be
granted by her. She looked for a little while
through the play and the glow of his impassioned
words as through some painted window
into some agreeable land whither, perchance,
she might travel.

The very sternness and daring of his manner
of demand had its attraction for her. None of
her courtiers had wooed her quite in that way :
some had been too timid, some too submissive,
some too world ly-wise. The insane desire to
fly with her from the world to some far-away,
semi-barbaric, mysterious Eden of his own
making had never been so boldly and uncompromisingly
set forth to her by any lover as
now by Othmar. It had a certain fascination
for her even while the philosophy and irony in

her ridiculed the idea. It responded to the
vague but very real dissatisfaction with which
life, as it was, filled her. She was tired of the
routine of it. Everyone said the same thing.
Its very triumphs were so monotonous that
they might just as well have been failures.
Half her provocation and cruelty to men arose
from a wish which she could not resist, to find
something vivid and new to interest her. She
succeeded in causing tragedies, but she did not
succeed in being interested in them herself.

Othmar did interest her  in a measure.

He had done so from the first moment that
she saw him coming in  tall, slight, grave,
with great repose and more dignity than most
men of his day  through the vague light, entre
chien et loiqj, into the hall of a country house
in the green heart of the Ardennes, where
she and her hosts and a great party, wearing
the russet and gold and pale blue of their
hunting clothes, were waiting for the signal of
the curie from the terraces without.

He had interested her then and always in a
degree ; but only in a degree.

It certainly cannot be love that 2" feel,'
she said to herself, with regret. ' I am glad

when he comes because lie  almost  excites
me, but I am glad when he is gone because he
  almost  disturbs me. I can imagine certain
follies being possible to me when he is here,
but they never quite become possible. If I
were sure they would become so, and in becoming
so be agreeable to me, I would go
away with him. But  but  but .'

The objections seemed many to her, in a
way insuperable ; they lay in herself, not in
him, and so appeared never to be removed.

She respected him because he would have
scorned one of those intrigues screened under
conventional observances, of which the world
is so full". If she could have entirely persuaded
herself that his life was absolutely necessary
to hers, she would not have hesitated to let
society become aware of the truth. She had no
grain in her of the hypocrite or of the coward.

But she was not sure : and to break up
your life irrevocably, to throw it into a furnace
and fuse it into a wholly new shape, to fling
your name to all the hounds who fed on the
offal of calumny, and then to find, after all this
Sturm unci Drank, that you had only made a
mistake, and were only a little more bored than

before !  this possibility seemed to be at once
so dreary and so ridiculous that she did not
dare to put it to the proof. Her own potential
weariness in the future to which he wooed
her, rose before her in a ghastly shape and
barred the way.

She pondered on the matter fully and
sincerely for some days : days in which nothing
pleased her : days in which her riding-horse felt
her spurs, and her friends her sarcasms : days
in which her toilettes had little power to interest
her ; Worth himself seemed worn out ;
her admirable tire-woman did nothing well ;
and her husband seemed to her to have grown
heavier, stouter, stupider, more Kalmuck, and
more intolerable than ever during the hours of
breakfast and dinner, which were the only
hours weighted by his presence. In those few
hours she felt almost persuaded to take her
lover at his word. Plato Napraxine was so
densely, so idiotically, so provocative unalarmed
and secure ! He would have tempted
almost any woman to make him suddenly awake
to find himself ridiculous.

8 He would howl like a wounded bear ! '
she thought contemptuously, ' and then somebody

would bring him brandy, and somebody
would mention the tables, and somebody would
talk about Mdlle. Chose, and he would be all
right again. He is too stupid to feel. There
are prairie dogs, they say, which hardly know
when they are shot or beaten ; he has got the
soul of one of them. Because I have married
him he is convinced that I shall never leave
him ;  la belle raison ! There are so many
men like that. They marry just as they buy
a cane ; they put the cane in the stand ; it
is bought and it cannot move ; they are sure
it will always be there. One fine day someone
comes and takes it ; then they stare and
they swear because they have been robbed.'

This time of uncertainty and doubt, which
was to Othmar fraught with such wild alternations
of hope and of fear, which now swung
him in his fancy high as heaven and now sunk
him deep in the darkness of despair, was to hera
period rather of the most minute analysis
and of the most subtle self-examination. In
the naivete of her profound and unconscious
egotism she never once considered his loss or
gain : she was entirely occupied with the consideration
of her own wishes. Everything

bored her ; would she, if she took this step,
which to most women would have looked so
big with fate, be less bored  or more ? This
seemed to her the one momentous issue which
trembled uncertain at the gate of choice.

She considered it thoughtfully and dispassionately.
She was not troubled by any moral
doubts, or any such reasons for hesitation as
would have beset many women of more prejudices
and of less intelligence than herself. All
these things were le vieux jeu. She was far
too clear-sighted and too highly-cultured to be
scared by such bogies as frighten narrow minds.
She saw no sanctity whatever in the marriage
ties which bound her to Plato Napraxine.
You might as well talk of a contract for eggs
and butter, or an operation on the Bourse being
sacred ! No human ordinances can very well
be sacred, and we cannot be sure there are
any divine ones, logically, all the probabilities
are that there are none ; so she certainly would
have said had anyone challenged her views
on such a subject.

In a manner, this crisis of her life amused
her like a comedy. The unconsciousness of her
husband whilst the unseen cords of destiny

were tightening about him ; the revolt and
impatience of Othmar, conveyed to her by
many a restless glance and half-uttered word as
they passed each other in his drawing-rooms orin
those of others ; the ignorance of her lovers
and her friends ; and her own meditations as to
the many comments that the world would make
if ever it knew : all these diverted her.

What alone troubled her was her own pride.
Would she ever be able to endure any loss of
that? 6 Je serai bonnet feminine,' she had said
to her father in her childhood, and when she
had repeated the words in her womanhood her
mind had been made up not so much by coldness,
chastity, or delicacy as by hauteur. She
could not have endured to feel that there were
any doors in Europe which could be shut in her
face, or that she could not shut her own whensoever
and against whomsoever she might
choose.

His term of probation came to an end one
morning when the day had nothing of winter
save its date ; a morning rosy and golden,
with distant mists transparent as a veil, and the
mild air soundless and windless amongst the
mimosa and eucalyptus groves of the grounds

of La Jacquemerille. For once Machine Na-praise
condescended to be true to an appointment
; whilst the day was still young and all
the lazy world of the modern Bare still dozed
or, at the utmost, yawned itself awake, she
moved, with that lovely languor which was as
much a portion of her as the breath she drew,
along the sea-terrace of her house, and smiled
to see Othmar already standing at the foot of
the sea steps.

What children men are ! ' she thought,
with that ridicule which the ardour of her
lovers was always most apt to awake in her, ashe
bent over her hand and pressed on it lips
which trembled.

 It must be really delightful,' lie continued
in her own reflections, ' to be able to be so very
eager and so very much in earnest about anything.
Instead of abusing us, men ought to
be infinitely thankful to us for giving them
emotions which do, for the time at least eclipse
those of baccarat and of pigeon-shooting. Ina
moment or two he will be inclined to hate
me, but he will be very wrong. He will always
be my debtor for fifteen days of the most exquisite
agitation of his life. Twenty years hence

he will look back to this time, and say, " OA,
le beau temps quandfetais si malheureux ! " '

Whilst she so mused she was saying little
careless, easy phrases to him, pacing her terrace
slowly, with her great mantle of iris-coloured
plush, lined with silver-fox fur drawn
close about her, and its hood about her face,
like its spathe around the narcissus. She was
serene, affable, nonchalante ; he was silent, and
deeply agitated ; so passionately eager for his
fate to be spoken, that he could find no light
sentences with which to answer hers.

4 He looks very well in that kind of excitement,'
she thought, as she glanced sideways
at him. ' He is poetic in it, instead of
being only awkward, like poorEalph. Eeally,
if one could only be sure of one's self '

She amused herself awhile by keeping him
upon the terrace, on which all the windows
of the house looked, and where regard for her
must perforce restrain him from any betrayal of
his own emotions. She felt as if she held in
leash some panting, striving, desert animal which
she forced to preserve the measured pace and
decorous stillness of tamed creatures.

At length, compassion or prudence made

vol. 11. E

her relent, and enter the little oriental room
where his eloquent avowals had been made a
fortnight before. She closed the glass doors,
threw off her furs, and stood in the subdued
light and the heated air of the room, cool,
pale, delicate as the April flower which she
resembled, long trailing folds of the primrose-coloured
satin which formed her morning
neglige falling from her throat to her feet in
the long lines that painters love ; one great
pearl fastened a few sprays of stephanotis at
her throat. She sank into a chair which stood
against a tree of scarlet azalea set in an antique
vase of brass. She was one of those women
w T ho naturally make pictures of themselves for
every act and in every attitude.

The moment they were secure from observation
Othmar knelt at her feet and kissed
her hands again ; his eyes, uplifted, told their
tale of rapture, hope, fear, and imploring
prayer more passionately than any words. He
would have cut his heart out of his breast if
she had bidden him.

She glanced down on the agitation which
his features could not conceal with a sense of
that wonder which never failed to come to her

before the intensity of feeling with which she
inspired others.

When I really do nothing to make them
like that ! ' she reflected for the hundredth
time before the tempest which she raised
almost without endeavour.

Othmar had recovered his presence of mind,
though none of his tranquillity ; his words,
impetuous, persuasive, at times broken by the
force of his emotion, at times eloquent with
the eloquence natural to passion, fell on her
ear uninterrupted by her. She listened, much
as she might have listened to the sonorous
swell of the Marche au Supplice of Berlioz, or
any other harmony which should have pleased
her taste if only by contrast of its own vehemence
and strength with the serenity of her
own nature. She listened, without any sign of
any sort, save of so much acquiescence as might
be indicated by the gentleness of her expression
and the passiveness with which she left her
hand in his. He believed her silence to be
assent.

1 This is what I have always fancied might
conquer me,' she thought, whilst his ardent
protestations and entreaties held her for thee

-2



 fl!!Nntc

moment pleased and fascinated. 'And yet, I
do not know. To leave the world, to be always
together, to go, heaven knows where, into a sort
of Mahometan paradise  would it suit me ? I
am afraid not. The idea pleases one in a
way, but not quite enough for that. Always
together, and alone  one would tire of an
angel ! '

So still she was, as these thoughts drifted
through her mind, so unresisting she let his
forehead, and then his lips, lie on her hand,
that he believed himself successful in his prayer.
He lifted his eyes and looked at her with a
gaze full of rapturous light, of adoration and
of gratitude.

Oh, my love ! my love ! ' he murmured.
Never shall you regret an hour your mercy tome
! '

His lips would have sought hers as his
words ended in a sigh, the lover's sigh of happiness,
but she moved and disengaged herself
quickly, and motioned to him to rise. On her
mouth there was the slight smile he knew so
well  the smile that was the enemy of men.

4 My dear friend,' she said, in her melodious
voice, sweet as the south wind, and never

sweeter than when it uttered cruel truths to
ears that were wounded by them, ' I will do
you the justice to grant that I quite believe
you care very much for me ' (he made an indignant
gesture) ; ' well, that you love me un
peu, beaucoup passionnement, as the convent
girls say to the daisies. But I am equally convinced
that you do not understand me in the
least. I understand myself thoroughly. Weare
all enigmas to others, but we ought to be
able to read our own riddle ourselves. I can
read mine ; many people never can read theirs
all their lives long, and that is why they make
so many mistakes. Now, I do know myself so
very well. I know that no kind of sin, if there
really be such a thing as sin, would frighten
me much. I think my nerves would stand
even a crime without wincing, if it were a bold
one. If the world threw stones at me, it would
amuse me. I cannot fancy anybody being unhappy
about it. Therefore you will comprehend
me when I say that it is not any kind of
commonplace nonsense about doing anything
wrong which moves me for a moment, but,  I
have thought of it all very much and very
seriously, and really with a wish to try that

other kind of life you speak of, but  I cannot
go with you ! '

She said it as quietly and as lightly as if she
were saying that she could not drive with him
to the Col di Guardia that morning. She was
smiling her pretty, slight, mysterious smile,
which might have meant anything, from pity to
derision. She had a sprig or two of the leafless
calycanthus in her fingers, which she played
with as she spoke. He hated the fragrance of
that winter blossom ever afterwards.

You cannot ? You cannot ?' he murmured
almost unconsciously. ' And why ?'

He did not well know what he said, the
paralysis of a sudden and intense disappointment
was upon him ; he forgot that he had no
right to interrogate her, that no faintest breath
of promise from her had ever given him title
to upbraid her ; the noise as of a million waves
of stormy seas was surging in his ears.

'Why?' she repeated, with the same serenity,
and with a kind of indulgence as to a wayward,
imperious child. ' Oh, for so many
reasons !  not at all, believe me, from any kind
of hesitation about Plato ; he would do very
well without me, though he would try to kill

you, I suppose, because men have such odd
ideas ; besides they are always fretting about
what the world thinks, just as when they play
billiards they think about the opinion of the
galerie ; no, not for that, believe me ; that is
not my kind of feeling at all ; but I have
thought over it all very much, and I have decided
that it would not do  for me. I should
be irritable and unhappy in a false position,
because I should have lost the power to shut
my doors, other people would shut theirs instead
; I should be quite miserable if I could
not be disagreeable to persons whom I did not
care to know, and no one in a false position
ever dares be that ; they smile, poor creatures,
perpetually, like so many wax dolls from
Giroux's. Of course the moral people say it
is the loss of self-respect which makes them
so anxious to please, but it is not that : it is
really the sense that it is of no use for them
to be rude any more, because their rudeness
cannot vex anybody. I quite understand Marie
Antoinette ; I should not mind the scaffold in
the least, but I should dislike going in the cart.
Le roi avait une charrette" you remember.'
Othmar had risen ; as she glanced up at

him, even over her calm and courageous temperament,
a little chill passed that was almost
one of alarm. Yet her sense of pleasure was
keener than her fear : men's souls were the
chosen instrument on which she chose to play ;
if here she struck some deeper chords than
usual, the melody gained for her ear. Profound
emotions and eager passions were unknown
to her in her own person, but they
constituted a spectacle which diverted her if it
did not weary her  the chances depended upon
her mood. At this moment they pleased her ;
pleased her the more for that thrill of alarm,
which was so new to her nerves.

Othmar did not speak : all the strength
which was in him was taxed to its breaking
point in the effort to restrain the passionate
reproaches and entreaties which sprang to his
lips, the burning tears of bitter disillusion and
cruel disappointment which rushed to his sight
and oppressed his breath. What a fool, what
a madman, he had been again to throw down
his heart like a naked, trembling, panting thing
at her feet to be played with by her.

How well he looks like that !' she thought.
Most men grow red when they are so angry,

but he grows like marble, and his eyes burn 
there are great tears in them  he looks like
Mount-Sully as Hippolytus.'

Once more the momentary inclination came
over her to trust herself to that stormy force
of love which might lead to shipwreck and
might lead to paradise ; there were a beauty, a
force, a fascination for her about him as he
stood there in his silent rage, his eyes pouring
down on her the lightnings of his reproach ; but
the impulse was not strong enough to conquer
her; the world she. would have given up with
contemptuous indifference, but she would not
surrender her own power to dictate to the world.

Her soft tranquil voice went on, as a waterfall
may gently murmur its silvery song while
a tempest shakes the skies.

8 1 know you think that love is enough, but
I assure you I should doubt it, even if I did 
love you. Rousseau has said long before us
that love lacks two things,  permanence and
immutability ; they seem to me synonymous,
and I do not think that their absence is a defect ;
I think it even a merit. Yet, as they are absent,
it cannot be worth while to pay so very much
for so very defective a thing

1 God forgive you ! ' cried her lover in passionate
pain. ' You betray me with the cruelest
jest that woman ever played off on man,
and you think that I can stand still to hearken
to the pretty tinkling bells of a drawing-room
philosophy ! '

8 You do not stand still,' she answered languidly,
' you walk to and fro like a wounded
panther in a cage. I have in no way betrayed
you, and I am not jesting at all. I am saying
the very simplest truth. Yon have asked me
to do a momentous and irrevocable thing ; and
I have answered you truthfully that I should
not shrink from it if I were convinced that I
should never regret it. But I am not convinced
'

If you loved me you would be so ! ' he
said in a voice which was choked and almost
inaudible.

'Ah !  if ! ' said Nadine Napraxine with a
smile and a little sigh. ' The whole secret lies
in that one conjunction ! '

His teeth clenched as he heard her as if in
the intolerable pain of some mortal wound.

Besides, besides,' she murmured, half to
herself and half to him, 4 my dear Othmar, you

are charming. You are like no one else ; you
please me ; I confess that you please me, but
you could not ensure me against my own unfortunate
capacity for very soon tiring of
everybody, and,  I have a conviction that
in three months' time I should be tired of
you ! '

A strong shudder passed over him from
head to foot, as the words struck him with a
greater shock than the blow of a dagger in his
side would have given. He realised the bottomless
gulf which separated him from the woman
he adored,  the chasm of her own absolute
indifference.

He, in his exaltation, was ready to give up
all his future and fling away all his honour for
her sake, and would have asked nothing more of
earth and heaven than to have passed life and
eternity at her feet ; and she, swayed momentarily
towards him by a faint impulse of the
senses and the sensibilities, yet could draw back
and calmly look outward into that vision of
the possible future, which dazzled him as the
mirage blinds and mocks the desert-pilgrim
dying of thirst ; she, with chill prescience could
foresee the time when his presence would

become to her a weariness, a chain, a yokefellow
tiresome and dull !

She looked at him with a momentary compassion.


8 Dear Othmar, I am quite sure you have
meant all you said,' she murmured softly.
But, believe me, it would not do ; it would
not do for you and me, if it might for some
people. I am not in the least shocked. I
think your idea quite beautiful, like a poem ;
but I am certain it would never suit myself.
I tire of everything so quickly, and then you
know I am not in love with you. One wants
to be so much in love to do that sort of thing,
we should bore one another so infinitely after
the first week. Yes, I am sure we should,
though I know you are quite sincere in saying
you would like it.'

Then, still with that demure, satisfied,
amused smile, she turned away and lifted up
the Moorish chocolate pot and poured out a
little chocolate into her cup.

It has grown cold,' she said, and tinkled
a hand-bell which was on the tray to summon
Mahmoud.

Othmar, who had sprung to his feet and

stood erect, seized her wrist in his fingers and
threw the bell aside.

There is no need to dismiss me,' he said ina
low tone. ' Adieu ! You can tell the story
to Lord Geraldine.'

His face was quite colourless, except that
around his forehead there was a dusky red
mark where the blood had surged and settled
as though he had been struck there with a
whip.

He bowed low, and left her.

She stood before the Moorish tray and its
contents with a sense of cold at her heart, but
her little self-satisfied smile was still on her
mouth.

He will come back, 5 she thought. ' He
came back before ; they always come back.'

She did not intend to go with him to Asia,
but she did not, either, intend to lose him altogether.


He was superb in his fury and his grief,'
she thought, ' and he meant every word of it,
and he would do all that he said, more than
he said. Perhaps it hurt him too much, perhaps
I laughed a little too soon.'

She was like the child who had found its

living bird the best of all playthings, but
had forgotten that its plaything, being alive,
could also die, and so had nipped the new toy
too cruelly in careless little fingers, and had
killed it.

CHAPTEE XVII.

Othmar, as he left La Jacquemerille, forgot
the boat in which he had come thither. He
walked mechanically through the house, and
out by the first gate which he saw before him.
He was in that state of febrile excitation in
which the limbs move without the will in an
instinctive effort to find outlet to mental pain
in bodily exertion. The gate he had passed
through opened into a little wood of pines,
whence a narrow path ]ed upward into the
hills above. With little consciousness of what
he did, he ascended the mule road which rose
before him, and the chill of the morning air,
as it blew through the tops of the swaying
pines, was welcome to him. He had that cruel
wound within him which a proud man suffers
from when he has disclosed the innermost secrets
of his heart in a rare moment of impulse, and
has seen them lightly and contemptuously
played with for a jest.

He had gone through life receiving much
adulation but little sympathy, and giving as
little confidence ; in a moral isolation due to the
delicacy of his own nature and to the flattery
he received, which had early made him withhold
himself from intimate friendships, fearing
to trust where he would be only duped.

To her, in an unguarded hour, he had
shown the loneliness and the longing which he
felt, he had disclosed the empty place which
no powers or vanities of the world could fill ;
he had staked the whole of his peace on the
caprice of one woman, and lie knew that, in
the rough phrase which men would have used
to him, he had been made a fool of in return ;
he had betrayed himself, and had nothing in
return but the memory of a little low laughter,
of a tranquil voice, saying : ' Tout cela best le
vieux jeu I '

He never knew very well how that day of
the 2nd of January passed with him. He was
sensible of walking long, of climbing steep
paths going towards the higher mountains,
of drinking thirstily at a little woodland fountain,
of sitting for hours quite motionless, looking
down on the shore far below, where the

blue sea spread in the sunlight, and the towers
of S. Pharamond were mere grey points amidst
a crowd of evergreen and of silvery-leafed
trees.

There was an irony in the sense that he
could have purchased the whole province which
lay beneath his feet, could have bought out the
princeling who reigned in that little kingdom
under old Turbid, as easily as he could have
bought a bouquet for a woman, could have set
emperors to war with one another by merely
casting his gold into the scales of peace,
could have created a city in a barren plain with
as little effort as a child builds up a toy village
on a table, and yet was powerless to command,
or to arouse, the only thing on earth which he
desired, one whit of feeling in the woman he
loved !

It was late in the afternoon when he
took his way homeward, having eaten nothing,
only drunk thirstily of water wherever a little
brook had made a well amongst the tufts of
hepatica in the pine woods. He was a man
capable of a spiritual love ; if she had remained
aloof from him for honour's sake, but had
cared for him, he would not have demurred

VOL. II. F

to her choice, but would have accepted his fate
at her hands and would have served her loyally
with the devotion of a chivalrous nature.

All the passion, the pain, as of a boy's first
love, blent in him with the bitter revolts of
mature manhood. He believed that Nadine
Napraxine had never intended more than to
amuse herself with his rejection ; he believed
that for the second time he had been the toy
of an unscrupulous coquette. Whatever fault
there might be in his love for her, it was love
absolute, strong, faithful, and capable of an
eternal loyalty ; he had laid his heart bare
before her, and had meant in their utmost
meaning all the words which he had uttered,
all the offers which he had made. Despite
his knowledge of her, he had allowed himself
to be beguiled into a second confession
of the empire she possessed over him, and
for the second time he had been not alone
rejected, but gently ridiculed with that quiet
amused irony which had been to the force
and heat of his passion like a fine spray of
ice-cold water falling on iron at a white -
heat. She had not alone wounded and stung
him : she had humiliated him profoundly. If

she had rejected him from honour, duty, or
love for any other, he would have borne what
men have borne a thousand times in silence,
and with no sense of shame ; but he was conscious
that in her absolute indifference she
had drawn him on to the fullest revelation of
all he felt for her, only that her ready satire
might find food in his folly, and her fine wit
play with his suffering, as the angler plays
the trout. She seemed to him to have betrayed
him in the basest manner that a woman could
betray a man who had no positive right to her
loyalty. She had known so well how he loved
her. He had told her so many times ; unless
she had been willing to hear the tale again,
why had she bidden him come there in that
charmed solitude in the hush and freshness of
the early morning ? When women desire not
love, do they seat their lover beside them
when all the world sleeps? He had been
cheated, laughed at, summoned, and then dismissed
; his whole frame thrilled with humiliation
when he recalled the smiling subdued
mockery of her voice as she had dismissed
him.

He had been willing to give her his life,

f 2

his good repute, his peace, his honour, his very
soul ; and she had sent him away with the
calm, cool, little phrases with which she would
have rejected a clumsy valser for a cotillon !

He had little vanity, but he knew himself
to be one of those to whom the world cringes ;
one of those of whom modern life has made
its Caesar ; he knew that what he had been
willing to surrender to her had been no little
thing ; that he would have said farewell to
the whole of mankind for her sake, and would
have loved her with the romantic devoted force
and fealty of a franker and fiercer time than his
own ; and she had drawn him on to again
confess this, again offer this, and all it had
seemed to her was vieux jeu, an archaic thing
to laugh at, to yawn at, to be indulgent to, and
tired by, in a breath !

He was a very proud man, and a man w T ho
had seldom or never shown what he either
desired or suffered, yet he had laid his whole
heart bare to her ; and she, the only living
being who had either power over him, or real
knowledge of him, had looked at him with her
little cool smile, and said, ' In three months I
should be tired of you.'

If, when the knight had killed his falcon for
his lady, she had scoffed at it and thrown it out
to feed the rats and sparrows he would have
suffered as Othmar suffered now. He had killed
his honour and his pride for her sake, and she
had held them in her hands for a moment, and
then had laughed a little and had thrown them
away.

Where he sat all alone he felt his cheeks
burn with the sense of an unendurable mortification.
At this moment, for aught he knew,
she, with her admirable mimicry and her
merciless sarcasm, might be reacting the scene
for the diversion of her companions ! Passion
was but vieux jeu ; it could expect no higher
distinction than to be ridiculed as comedy by a
witty woman. Did not the universe only exist
to amuse the languor of Nadine Napraxine ?

The world, had it heard the story, would
have blamed him for an unholy love, and
praised her for her dismissal of it ; but he
knew that he had been as utterly betrayed as
though he had been sold by her into the hands
of assassins. She had drawn him on, and on,
and on, until all his life had been laid at her
feet, and then she had looked at it a little, carelessly,

idly, and had said she had no use for it,
as she might have said so of any sea-waste
washed up on the sea steps of her terrace with
that noon.

Of course the world would have praised
her ; no doubt the world would have blamed
him ; but he knew that women who slay their
lovers after loving them do a coarser but a
kinder thing.

It was almost dark as he descended the road
to S. Pharamond, intending when he reached
home to make some excuse to his uncle and
leave for Paris by the night express or by a
special train. The path he took led through
the orange-wood of Sandroz, which fitted, in a
triangular-shaped piece of ground, between the
boundaries of his own land and that of Milloo.
Absorbed as he was in his own thoughts, he recognised
with surprise the figure of Yseulte as he
pushed his way under the low boughs of the
orange trees, and saw her within a yard of him.
She was with the woman Nicolee.

She did not see him until he was close to
her, where she sat on a low stone wall, the
woman standing in front of her. When she did
so, her face spoke for her ; it said what Nadine

Napraxine's had never said. The emotion of
joy and timidity mingled touched him keenly
in that moment, when he, with his millions of
gold and of friends, had so strongly realised his
own loneliness.

 She loves me as much as she dare  as
much as she can, without being conscious of
it,' he thought, as he paused beside her. She
did not speak, she did not move ; but her
colour changed and her breath came quickly.
She had slipped off the wall and stood irresolute,
as though inclined to run away, the glossy
leaves and the starry blossoms of the trees
consecrated to virginity were all above her and
around her. She glanced at him with an
indefinite fear ; she fancied he was angered by
the return of the casket ; he looked paler and
sterner than she had ever seen him look.

He paused a moment and said some commonplace
word.

Then he saw that her eyes were wet with
tears, and that she had been crying.

What is the matter ? ' he said, gently.
 Has anything vexed you ? '

They are sending her away,' said Nicolee
Sandroz, with indignant tears in her own eyes,

finding that she did not reply for herself.
They are sending her to the Vosges, where, as
Monsieur knows very well, I make no doubt,
the very hares and wolves are frozen in the
woods at this month of the year.'

Are you indeed going away ? ' he asked of
Yseulte herself.

She did not speak : she made a little affirmative
gesture.

Why is that ? Bois le Eoy, in this season,
will be a cruel prison for you.'

c My cousin wishes it, 5 said the girl ; she
spoke with effort; she did not wish to cry
before him ; the memory of all that her cousin
had said that morning was with her in merciless
distinctness.

Nicolee broke out in a torrent of speech,
accusing the tyrants of Milloo in impassioned
and immoderate language, and devoting them
and theirs to untold miseries in retribution.

Yseulte stopped her with authority ; ' You
are wrong, Nicolee ; do not speak in such a
manner, it is insolent. You forget that, whether
I am in the Vosges or here, I equally owe my
cousin everything

She paused ; she was no more than a child.

Her departure was very cruel to her ; she had
been humiliated and chastised that day beyond
her power of patience ; she had said nothing,
done nothing, but in her heart she had rebelled
passionately when they had taken away her
ivory casket. They had left her the heart of
a woman in its stead.

Othmar was ignorant that his casket, fateful
as Pandora's, had been returned, but he
divined that his gift had displeased those who
disposed of her destiny, and had brought about
directly or indirectly her exile from Milloo.

1 When do you go ? ' he asked abruptly.

To-morrow.'

As she answered him the tears she could
not altogether restrain rolled off her lashes.
She turned away.

Let us go in, Nicolee,' she murmured. c You
know Henrietta is waiting for me.'

Let her wait, the covered-up Parisienne,
who shrieks if she see a pig and has hysterics
if she get a spot of mud on her stockings ! '
grumbled Nicolee, who was the sworn foe of
the whole Paris-born and Paris-bred household
of Milloo. But Yseulte had already moved
towards the house. When she had gone a few

yards away, however, she paused, returned, and
approached Othmar. She looked on the ground,
and her voice trembled as she spoke : ' I ought
to thank you, M. Othmar  I do thank you. It
was very beautiful. I would have kept it all
my life'.

Ah ! ' said Othmar.

He understood ; he was moved to a sudden
anger, which penetrated even his intense preoccupation.
He had meant to do this poor
child a kindness, and he had only done her
great harm.

Yseulte had turned away, and had gone
rapidly through the orange-trees towards the
house.

She is not happy ? ' said Othmar to her
foster-mother, whose tongue, once loosed, told
him with the eloquence of indignation of all
the sorrows suffered by her nursling. ' And
they will make her a nun, Monsieur V she
cried ; ' a nun ! That child, who is like a June
lily. For me, I say nothing against the black
and grey women, though Sandroz calls them
bad names. There are good women amongst
them, and when one lies sick in hospital one is
glad of them ; but there are women enough in

this world who have sins and shame to repent
them of to fill all the convents from here to
Jerusalem. There are all the ugly ones too,
and the sickly ones and the deformed ones,
and the heart-broken ; for them it is all very
well ; the cloister is home, the veil is peace,
they must think of heaven, or go mad ; it is
best they should think of it. But this child to
be a nun !  when she should be running with
her own children through the daisies  when
she should be playing in the sunshine like the
lambs, like the kids, like the pigeons ! '

Othmar heard her to the end ; then without
answer he bade her good-day, and
descended the sloping grass towards his house.

They say he has a million a year,' said
Nicolee to herself, as she looked after him.
8 Well, he does not seem to be happy upon it.
The lads that bring up the rags on their heads
from the ships look gayer than he, all in the
stench and the muck as they are, and never
knowing that they will earn their bread and
wine from one day to another.'

She kicked a stone from her path, and
hurried after her nursling.

Othmar went quickly on to his own woods.

6 They could not even let her have that toy,'
he thought with an emotion, vague but sincere,
outside the conflict of passion, wrath, and mortification
which Nadine Napraxine had aroused
in him. He saw the sudden happiness, so soon
veiled beneath reserve and timidity, which had
shone on the girl's face as she had first seen him
under the orange boughs. He saw her beautiful
golden eyes misty with the tears she had had
too much courage to shed ; he saw her slender
throat swell with subdued emotion as she had
approached him and said shyly, ' I would have
kept it all my life.'

All her life,  in the stone cell of some
house of the Daughters of Christ or the Sisters
of St. Marie !

1 To love is more, yet to be loved is something,'

he thought. ' What treasures for one's heart
and senses are in her  if one could only care ! '

CHAPTER XVIII.

When he reached home that evening he found
on his writing-table the ivory casket and the
letter of Madame de Vannes. In the pain and
the passion which wrestled together against his
manhood in him, he scarcely heeded either, yet
they brought before his memory the face of
Yseulte, and the sound of her soft grave voice
with that sweet thrill of youth in it which is
like the thrill of the thrush's in the woods at
spring-time. She had youth, but she would
have no spring-time.

And in the strong and impotent rage which
consumed him, in the pain of bruised and
aching nerves, and the sickening void which
the certain loss of what alone is loved brings with
it, Othmar, seeing the ivory casket, and glancing
at the letter which he had had no patience to
read through, thought to himself, k The child
loves me ; she will have a wretched life ; what
if I try to forget ? They threw virgins to the

Minotaur. Shall I try to appease with one this
cruel fire of love, which leaves me no peace or
wisdom ? '

It was the act of a madman to attempt to
make one woman take the place of another
to the senses or to the heart, but in that
moment he was not master of himself. He
was only sensible of a cruel insult which he
had received from the hand he loved best on
earth ; of a cruel betrayal which was but the
more merciless because wrought with so sweet a
smile, so apparent an unconsciousness, so seemingly
innocent a malice.

He passed the night and the next morning
locked in his own room ; when he left it, and
met the Baron Friederich, he said to him :

I have thought over all you said the other
day. You are right, no doubt. Will you go
across to our neighbours at Milloo and ask of
them the honour of the hand of their cousin,
of Mademoiselle de Valogne ? '

The Baron stared at him with a little cry of
amaze.

6 For you ? ' he stammered.

For me,' said Othmar. ' What have you
said yourself ? I do not want wealth ; I want

good blood, beauty, and innocence ; they are
all possessed by Mademoiselle de Valogne. Go ;
your errand will please them. They will
pardon some breach of etiquette. It will be a
mission which you will like.'

As the Baron, a little later, rolled through
the gates of Milloo in full state, his shrewd
knowledge of men and their madness made
him think :

8 So the Princess Napraxine evidently will
have nothing to say to him ! A la bonne heure !
There are some honest women left then amongst
the great ladies. She could so easily have
ruined him ! He takes a droll way to cure
himself, but it is not a bad one. The worst is,
that this sort of cure never lasts long, and when
she can make the unhappiness of two persons,
instead of only the happiness of one, perhaps
Madame la Princesse will be tempted to make
it!'

CHAPTEE XIX.

On the following day Plato Napraxine drove
home from Monte Carlo at sunset with a
piece of news to carry there which amused
and unusually animated him.

He went up the stone stairs of the terrace
of La Jacquemerille with the quick step of one
who is eager to deliver himself of his tidings,
and approached, with a rapidity unfrequent
with him, the spot where his wife sat with
her guests under the rose and white awning
beside the marble balustrade and the variegated
aloes.

The Princess Nadine was also full of unwonted
animation ; her cheek had its sea-shell
flush, her eyes a vague and pleased expectancy ;
she was laughing a little and listening a good
deal ; besides her usual companions, she had
there a group of Austrian and Russian
diplomatists and some Parisian boulevardiers.
They were just taking their leave as she was

taking her tea, but it was not very greatly of
them that she was thinking : she was thinking
as she heard the roll of her husband's carriage

wheels beneath the carouse trees ; ' Ten to

one Othmar will return with him.'

She lost her gay expression as she saw that
he was alone.

All the day she had expected the man whom
she had banished to return. She was accustomed
to spaniels who crawled humbly up after
a beating to solicit another beating rather than
remain unnoticed. She had dismissed a certain
apprehension which had told her that she had
gone too far with the reflection that a man
who loved her once did so for ever, and that,
as he had returned from Asia, so he would
return this morning, however great his offence
or his humiliation might have been.

1 He is more romantic than most,' she had
thought, ' but after all, he must be made of the
same stuff.'

Napraxine approached her hurriedly, and
scarcely giving himself time to formally greet
the gentlemen there, cried to her aloud :

Scouted done, Madame ! You will never
guess what has happened.'

VOL. II. g

i It is of no use for us to try then,' said his
wife. ' You are evidently gonfie with some
tremendous intelligence. Pray unburden yourself.
Perhaps the societies for the protection of
animals have had Strasburg pates made illegal ? '

6 1 have seen the Duchesse, I have seen
Baron Fritz, I have seen Melville,' answered
her husband impetuously and triumphantly,
and they all say the same thing, so that there
cannot be a doubt that it is true. Othmar
marries that little cousin of Cri-Cri : the one
of whom they meant to make a nun. What
luck for her ! But they say she is very beautiful,
and only sixteen.'

The people assembled round her table
raised a chorus of exclamation and of comment.
Napraxine stood amidst them, delighted; his
little social bomb had burst with the brilliancy
and the noise that he had anticipated.

Nadine Napraxine turned her head with an
involuntary movement of surprise.

Othmar !' she repeated ; her large black
eyes opened fully with a perplexed expression.

It must be the girl who was in the boat,'
said Lady Brancepeth. ' She was very handsome.'
.

Geraldine looked at Madame Napraxine
with curiosity, eagerness, and gratification.

Who told you, Plato ? ' she asked, with
a certain impatience in her voice.

Three of them told me ; Melville first,
then Cri-Cri herself, in the Salle de Jeu.
She did not seem to know whether to be
affronted or pleased. She said the whole thing
was a great surprise, but that she could not
refuse Othmar; she declared that her projects
were all upset, that her young cousin had been
always destined to the religious life ; that she
regretted to have her turned from her vocation ;
in short, she talked a great deal of nonsense,
but the upshot of it all was that Baron Fritz had
made formal proposals, and that she had accepted
them. In the gardens, coming away, I met
the Baron himself ; he was in a state of ecstasy;
all he cares for is the perpetuation of the name
of Othmar ; but he declares that Mademoiselle
de Alone is everything he could desire, that
she was excessively timid, and scarcely spoke
a word when they allowed him to see her for
five minutes, but that it was a very graceful
timidity, and full of feeling.'

\ Baron Fritz in the operatic role of Padrone

d'Amore is infinitely droll,' said Nadine, with a
little cold laugh.

Of course Othmar was obliged to marry
some time,' continued Napraxine, who did not
easily abandon a subject when one pleased him.
And he is  how old is he ?  I saw the Baron
as I left ; he is delighted. He says the poor
child fainted when they told her she was to be
saved from a religious life.'

My dear Plato,' said his wife impatiently,
we can read Daudet or Henri Greville when
we want this sort of thing. Pray, spare us.

I hope Baron Fritz explained to her that all
she is wanted for is to continue a race of
Croatian money-lenders which he considers the
pivot of the world. If she fail in doing that
he will counsel a divorce, a la Bonaparte.'

He might marry an archduchess,' said one
of the diplomatists. * Surely, it is throwing
himself away.'

It must be for love,' said Geraldine, with
an ironical] smile.

c The de Valogne was a great race, but
impoverished long ago,' said a Russian minister.

I I think, if he had married at all, he should
have made an alliance which would have

brought him that unassailable great rank which
is usually the ambition of all financiers. Fora
man of his position to make a mere romantic
mariage $ amour is absurd  out of place ; 
and who knows if it be even that?' he pursued,
w r with an involuntary glance at the Princess
Napraxine.

Why on earth should w T e doubt it ? ' said
her husband. ' It cannot be anything else,
and they say the girl is quite beautiful.
Surely, if anyone can afford to marry to
please himself, that one is Otho-ar.'

At any rate, it is his own affair,' said
Nadine, in a voice which was clear and sweet,
but cold as steel. ' I cannot see why we should
occupy ourselves about it, or why you should
have announced it as if it were the dissolution
of the world.'

4 Mademoiselle de Alone is very beautiful,'
said Geraldine, 4 I have seen her once at Milloo.
Why should they pretend to hesitate ? '

1 They hesitated because she is vouee a
Marie,' replied Napraxine, ' and also the de
Vannes and the de Creusacc scarcely recognise
the princes of finance as their equals. Still
the marriage is magnificent ; they felt they

had no right to regret it since it fell to them
from heaven.'

'Do yon still believe, Plato, that heaven
has anything to do with marriage ? ' said his
wife, with her little significant smile ; a slight
colour had come upon her cheeks, tinging
them as blush-roses are tinged with the faintest
flush ; her eyes retained their astonished and
annoyed expression, of which her husband saw
nothing.

Heaven made mine at least,' he said, with
his unfailing good-humour, and a bow in which
there was some grace.

'Louis Quatorze could not have answered
better,' said Nadine. ' I cannot say I see the
hand of heaven myself in it, but if you do,
so much the better. " Les illusions sont des
zeros, mais c'est avec les zeros qu'on fait les
beaux chiffres." '

I do not know whether Mademoiselle de
Valogne has illusions, but her settlements will
certainly have de beaux chiffres continued
Napraxine, who was still full of the tidings he
had brought, 'Did Othmar say nothing to
you the other morning of what he intended
to do?'

Nothing ; why should he ? I am do
relation of his or of Mademoiselle de Valogne.'

1 He might have done so ; he was a longtime
alone with you. Perhaps lie did not know
it himself.'

4 Perhaps not.'

'It seems a coup de tete. Madame de
Vannes told me that he had only seen her
cousin four times.'

'That is three times more than is necessary.'


They say the girl is very much in love
with him, and burst into tears when they
told her of his proposals.'

Oh, my dear Plato ! That the girl
marries Othmar one understands ; she would
be an imbecile, a lunatic, to refuse ; but that
she weeps because she will enjoy one of the
hugest fortunes in Europe  do not make such
demands on our credulity ! '

They say their acquaintance has been an
idol ; quite hors usage ; they both met in
his gardens by chance, and he '

Chance ? I thought it was heaven ? You
may be quite sure neither had anything to do
with it. Aurore is a very clever woman ; she

knew very well what she did when she brought
her cousin down to Milloo this winter ; if the
girl had been honestly vouee a Marie, would
they have had her in the drawing-room after
their dinner-parties ? Ealph says he has seen
her there.'

Well, if it were a conspiracy, it has succeeded.'


Of course it has succeeded. When women
condescend to conspire, men always fall. Our
Russian history will show you that.'

Being, however, an obstinate man, who
always adhered to his own opinion, even in
trifles which in no way concerned him, Na-praise
reiterated that Baron Fritz had expressed
himself satisfied that the girl was in
love with his nephew.

And why not ? ' he said stoutly, with more
courage than he usually showed. ' Most women
would soon care for Othmar if he wished them
to do so.'

Oh, grand dada ! ' murmured Nadine, in
supreme disdain, whilst her eyes glanced over
him for a moment with an expression which,
had he been wise enough to read it, would
have made him less eager to extol the absent.

After all,' she said aloud, Svhat is his marriage
to us, that we should talk about it? I
suppose it is the sole act of his life which
would have uo effect on the Bourses. We get
into very base habits of discussing our neighbours'
affairs. Let us say, once for all, that
he has done a very charitable action, and that
we hope it will have a happy result : e basta I
We will call at Milloo tomorrow. I am curious
to see the future Countess Othmar.'

They, say she is very shy.'

c Oh, we all know Ste. Mousseline,' said
Nadine Napraxine, with scorn.  Besides, con-entreated
girls are all of the same type. I
only hope Cri-Cri will not assume any hypocritical
airs of regret before me ; the only regret
she can really have is that Blanchette was
not old enough to have won this matrimonial
Derby.'

4 You always speak so slightingly of Othmar,'
said Napraxine, with some reproach.

1 1 really thought I paid him a high compliment,'
said his wife.

1 Why has he done it ? ' said one of the
Russian diplomatists to another, when they
had taken leave of the Princess and her party.

I imagine that Madame Napraxine piqued
him,' said another. 'You know he has been
madly in love with her for two years.'

She does not seem to like his marriage.'

They never like it,' returned the Eussian
minister. ' They may not look at you themselves,
but they never like you to look at anyone
else.'

If he marry her because he is in love elsewhere,
and if she have the Princess Nadine for
an enemy at the onset, this poor child's path
will not be of roses.'

She will be almost the richest woman in
Europe ; that must suffice.'

That will depend on her character.'

It will depend a little on whether she will
be in love with her husband. If she be not, all
may go smoothly.

4 Do you know what I thought as I looked
at Madame Napraxine just now ? ' said the
younger man. ' I thought of that Persian or
Indian tale where the woman, leaning over
the magic cup, dropped a pearl from her necklace
into it, and spoilt the whole charm for all
eternity. I dare say it will be only a pearl
which she will drop into Othmar's future life,

but it will spoil the whole charm of it for ever
and ever.'

You never liked her,' said the elder man.
1 She is a woman capable of an infinitude of
things, good and bad. She has the misfortune
to have a very excellent and very stupid husband.
There is nothing so injurious for a
clever woman. A bad man who had ill treated
her would not have done her half as much
harm. She would have had courage and energy
to meet an unhappy fate superbly. But a perfectly
amiable fool whom she disdains from all
the height of her own admirable wit, coupled
with the habits of our idiotic world, which is
like a mountain of wool steeped in opium, into
which the strongest sinks indolent and enfeebled,
have all tended to confirm her in her egotism
and her disdain, and to send to sleep all her
more noble impulses. Whatever men may be,
women can only be " saved by faith," and what
faith has Nadine Napraxine except her perfect
faith in her own irresistible and incomparable
power over her innumerable lovers ? '

f Well,' said the younger man, ' if she chose
to drop that pearl in, as I said, I would not
give much for the chances of Othmar's wife

against her. I have seen the girl. She is very
lovely, serious, simple ; no match at all against
such a woman as Princess Napraxine.'

1 She will have the advantage of youth,
and also  which, perhaps, will count for something
with such a man as Othmar, though it
would not with most men  she will be his
wife.'

Perhaps. He has been always eccentric,'
rejoined the other.

Watching her with all the keen anxiety of
jealousy Geraldine had been unable to discover
that the intelligence of Othmar's marriage
caused her any more surprise or interest than
any other of the hundred and one items of news
which make up the daily pabulum of society.
But then he knew very well that she was of
such a character that though she might have
suffered intolerably she would have shown no
sign of it any more than she would have shown
any fear had a dozen naked sabres been at her
breast.

Left alone beside his sister for a moment,
he said to her, with doubting impatience : ' Does
she care, do you think ? '

8 What affair is it of yours if she does ? ' returned

Lady Brancepeth. * Does she ever care
for anything ? And why should she care here ?
Oth mar has been known to be violently in love
with her  as you are  but no one has ever
had the slightest reason to suppose that she
had any feeling in return for him. He does a
foolish thing in marrying one woman while he
loves another. Some men have faith in that cure.
Myself I should have none. But whatever
his reasons for this sudden choice of Mdlle. de
Valogne, I imagine that his marriage is a matter
of as perfect indifference to Nadine as your
own would be.'

Gerald fine grew red, and his mortification
kept him silent. But the insight of a man in
love told him that his keen-eyed sister was for
once in error.

Nadine Napraxine herself had gone to her
own rooms to change her gown for dinner,
but she dismissed her maids for twenty minutes
and threw herself on a couch in her bedroom.
She was herself uncertain what she felt, and
angered that she should feel anything. She
was conscious of a sense of offence, irritation,
amazement, almost chagrin, which hurt her
pride and alarmed her dignity. If a month

before she had been told that Othmar was
dead, she would have felt no more than a
momentary regret. But the strength of his
passion in the morning interviews with her had
touched some fibre, some nerve in her, which
had been dumb and numb before. Again and
again she had recalled the accents of his voice,
the sombre fire and pathetic entreaty of his
eyes ; they had not moved her at the time to
anything more than the vague artistic pleasure
which she would have taken in any emotion
admirably rendered in art or on the stage, butin
remembrance they had haunted her and
thrilled through her with something more
nearly resembling response than had ever been
aroused in her.

The expectation of his return had been as
strong as certainty ; the sense that she had gone
too far with him had heightened the interest
with which she had awaited her next meeting
with him. One of the greatest triumphs of
her fascination had been the power she had
exercised over him. She was the only living
person who could say to this man, who could
have purchased souls and bodies as he could
have purchased strings of pierced pearls if

he had chosen : f You desire something of
which you will never be master.'

That she had had influence enough on such
a career as his to drive him out from the
world where all his interests, pursuits, and
friendships lay, had pleased her with more
keenness in her pleasure than similar victories
often gave her. She had seen his return to
Europe with amusement, even with derision;
she had seen at a glance that he had fled in
vain from her ; she had been diverted, but she
had remained indifferent.

In those morning hours when he had
addressed her with an almost brutal candour,
he had taken a hold upon her admiration
which he had never gained before. His accents
had lingered on her ear ; his regard had
burned itself into her remembrance ; she had
begun to look forward to his next approach,
after her rejection, with something more than
the merely intellectual curiosity with which
before she had studied the results of her
influence upon him. The news of his intended
marriage came to her with a sense of
surprise and of affront which was more nearly
regret than any sentiment she had ever experienced.

It seemed to her supremely ridiculous
that a man who adored her should seek
or hope to find any oblivion elsewhere ; she
even understood that it was no such hope
which had actuated him, but rather his
wounded pride which had rebelled against herself
and been unwilling to allow the world to
consider him her slave. Of the more delicate
and more tender motives which had led him
towards Yseulte de Alone she could know
nothing  but of those more selfish and embittered
ones she comprehended accurately all
the sources and all the extent.

He does it to escape me,' she thought as
she sat in solitude, while the last faint crimson
of the winter's sunset tinged the light clouds
before her windows ; a smile came slowly on
her beautiful mouth,  a smile, proud, unkind,
a little bitter. There was resentment in her,
and there was also pain, two emotions hitherto
strangers to her heart ; but beyond these, and
deeper than these, there was a caustic contempt
for the man's cowardice in seeking asylum in an
unreal love, in endeavouring to cheat himself
and another into belief in a feigned passion.

I thought him more brave ! ' she said

bitterly to herself. ' He is like a beaten
warrior who makes a rampart of a virgin's
body ! '

And yet, in that moment she was nearer
love for him than she had ever been before.

Vol. 11 II

CHAPTER XX.

Blackett was dancing round her cousin in
the twilight of the January day, making her
pied de nez triumphantly, but pausing every
now and then to look up in her face with her
habitual inquisitiveness, yet with a respect
quite new to her.

c Tiens, tiens, tiens ! ' she was crying in her
little shrill voice, like the tiniest of silver
trumpets. ' To think you are going to be
married after all ! You will be ever so much
richer than mamma, they say ; you will be as
rich as all the Juiverie put together, and you
will be as great a lady as all the grandes
dames. You will have as many jewels as
Madame de Talleyrand ; you will have as many
horses and houses as Madame de Pagan ; you
will have two new gowns every day if you like.
Have you seen the Hotel Shinar ? I have
seen it ; it is as big as the Louvre. What will
you ask him for first ? If I were you, I should

ask him for a rope of pearls, all as big as
pigeons' eggs. What are the Othmar liveries?
I never saw them ; the state liveries, I mean.
I like canary colour best, and Louis Treize
tricornes. What will he settle on yon ? He
will give yon what yon wish ; I heard mamma
say so. Make him give you S. Pharamond for
your very own. I am sure you will not get
half you might, you are such a silly little snipe ;
you are as tall as a Venetian mast on a feast
day, but you are a simpleton. You cried when
mamma told you he would marry you. The idea !
You should have danced for joy. It would be
delicious to marry him if he were as old as the
hills and as ugly as Punch, but he is not old
and he is handsome : all that jxir-dessus le
panier, and thirty thousand francs a day, Julie
says ; and Brown and Schemmitz wanted to kiss
your hand ! What fun you would make of
them if you were me. You should skip and
shout all day ;  I should. To be sure, he is dans
la finance, but they are the only royalties nowadays;
I have heard mamma say so. Whatever
can he see in you ? You are pretty and tall,
but you don't know it ; you stand and stare
Hke an owl with your big eyes. What can he

want with you ? He will give you everything,
he must be a simpleton, too ! he might marry
somebody quite great ; none of them can
imagine what he wants you for '

8 Oh, Blanchette ! ' said Yseulte de Valogne,
with a look of pain, as she tried to silence her
little tormentor, whose words she only vaguely
heard as she stood lost in the golden mists of
an incomparable dream.

Vrai ! ' said the cruel little child. ' Nobody
can think what he can see in you. It is
Madame Napraxine whom he loves.'

Yseulte coloured with sudden auger, and a
look of severity and sternness came on her
youthful face, while its happy wistful eyes lost
their light and grew cold :

You must not say these things, Blanchette,'
she said sternly ; ' you may laugh at me as
you like, but you must respect M. Othmar.'

The red deepened in her cheeks as she
spoke, and realised that she had the right to
defend his name thus. She was thinking in
herself as she did so : ' If it were true, if I
thought it were true, I would bury myself in
the convent for ever.'

The quick little mind of Blanchette divined

the direction of her thoughts, and dearly as the
child loved to do mischief and to torment, she
loved her own pleasure and gain better. She
had no wish for this beau manage to be broken
off, as she foresaw from it endless diversion,
gifts, and bonbons for herself.

Oth mar will give us each at least a medallion
with diamonds on the back,' she reflected ;
and she was conscious, too, that if the marriage
fell through by any doing of hers, her mother
w r ould be unsparing in her punishment, of
which not the least portion would be banishment
to Bois de Eoy ; for Blanchette adored
her spring-time in Paris, her summer months
at Danville and Homburg and Biarritz, her
wagers on the petits chevaux, her exploits in the
water, and the many whispers of scandals and
naughty witticisms which she caught, when
apparently engrossed with her toy balloon or
her ball, behind the chairs of her mother and
other great ladies on the sand by the sea or
under the trees of the fashionable inland
baths.

With a rapid remembrance of all that she
herself would lose if there were no grand wedding
at which she would assist at the Madeleine

or S. Philippe du Eoule, she threw her arms
about her cousin with her most coaxing
cdlinerie : ' It was only my fun,' she whispered ;
pray don't tell any one, cherie. It was years
and years ago that they laughed about Madame
Napraxine ; of course, it is you he loves now.
Why should he marry you if he did not ? He
could marry anywhere, anybody,  mamma says
so. And you are handsome, if you would only
think it ! Mamma says when you shall have
been married a week, and have all your jewels
you will be superb.'

Her cousin's face Hushed more warmly till
it was the hue of those Charles Eaybaud roses
which she had used to pack for Nicolee. Her
heart beat in that tumult of emotion, of joy, and
of vague, most sweet, fear, in which she had
lived for the last twenty-four hours. She
thought : ' Why, if he did not care for me,
why, indeed, should he seek me ? '

It seemed marvellous to her that it should
be so, but she could not doubt it.

She had only seen him for ten minutes that
morning, in the presence of the Duchesse de
Vannes, but though her confusion had been too
great to let her eyes meet his, the few soft grave

words he had spoken, and the touch of his lips
on her hand, had left with her an ineffable
sense of protection and affection received. If
it were not for love, why should he have paused
on his way to thrust back the gates of the
convent and take her to himself?

As for herself, the timid, pure, half-unconscious
feeling which he had awakened in her
was growing in strength with every hour now
that it had recognised its own existence and
been permitted its expansion without shame,
It remained as shy and fearful as a freshly
captured wood dove, but it had in it all the
elements of an intense and devoted passion.

She did not hear the child's chatter, which
rippled on like a little brook, asking her a
thousand questions of what she would do, of
what she would wear, of what she would give
away. Blanchette was herself half sympathetic,
half envious ; disposed to resent her cousin's
sudden and splendid change of destiny, yet
inclined to rejoice in it, as it would secure to
herself a spectacle, a new costume, and a costly
gift. She kept looking at the girl critically,
with her head on one side, and affecting to
help her only hindered her, as she dressed for

the first ceremonious dinner at which she had
ever assisted.

8 To think you can dress yourself; how
queer ! ' cried the little censor. ' I cannot put
on a stocking, nor Toinon either. I never
mean to do it. Mamma could not to save her
life. How many women will you have ? Two ?
three ? Never let your maids carry your jewel-box
; have it always put in the train by your
major-domo, between two footmen. Mamma
says all the robberies are done by the maids.
What are you going to put on? You have
only white frocks. Don't you long to wear
satin and velvet? Oh, you are so stupid ; you
ought to marry a shepherd, and wear lambs
that you spun yourself. You must not
be so simple. A Countess Othmar ought to
be very magnificent. The finance is nothing
if it do not look gorgeous. Oh, what are you
doing? You must not put a black sash on ;
you are a fiancee. Have you got nothing but
black ? Wait a minute ; I will run and get
one of mine.'

I have always worn something black or
grey since my grandmother died,' said Yseulte,
a little sadly.

But Blanche ttc made a pirouette.

Henri IV. est sur le Pont-neuf ! ' she cried.
Oh, you silly ! You were Cendrillon yesterday
; now yon are the prince's betrothed. Yesterday
you were a little brown grub ; now yon
are a butterfly. I will go and get my sash.'

The child flew out of the room and left
Yseulte standing before the mirror, looking
shyly at her own reflection as though she saw
a stranger. She felt, indeed, a stranger to
herself; so long she had been resigned to
the religious life, so long she had been accustomed
to regard obscurity, neglect, sadness,
loneliness, as her natural lot ; so long she had
been trained to submission, lectured to the
shade and the silence of resignation, that to be
thus suddenly called out into the light, and lifted
on to a pedestal, dazzled and almost paralysed
her.

It seemed to her as though it could never
be herself, Yseulte de Valogne, to whom her
cousin had said, with an admiration that was
almost reverence : ' You will be the most
enviable woman in Europe. Do you understand
all you have done for yourself? '

She did not understand it ; she only understood

that he had rescued her from the
conventual life, and that he loved her  surely
he loved her, or he would not wish ?

Blanchette flew back into the room, accompanied
by the maid Francoise.

Yseulte ! Yseulte ! ' she shrieked, waving
a blue sash in one hand and with the other
clasping to her a square parcel tied with silver
cord. ' Here is something he sends you :
Francoise was bringing it. Open it quick,
quick. Oh, what a happy creature you are,
and you only stand and stare like the statues in
the Luxembourg ! Open it quick ! It is sure
to be something worth thousands and thousands
of francs.'

8 Hush, Blanchette ! ' said the girl, with a
look of pain, as she took the packet and undid
its covering. Within was the ivory casket ;
and within the casket was a necklace of great
pearls.

A little note lay on them, which said
merely : 

'No one can dispossess you of the casket
now. Receive chat is within as a symbol of
your own innocence and of my reverence for it.
Yours, ivitli devotion, Othmar.'

On the other side of the paper was written
more hastily :  ' Pardon me that I must leave
immediately after dinner for Paris and shall
not see you for a few days. I have explained
to the Duchesse!

Yseulte grew very pale. If the eyes of her
little tormentor and of the woman Franchise
had not been on her, she would have kissed his
note and fallen on her knees and wept. As it
was, she stood still in silence, reading the lines
again and again, with sweet, warm tears in her
eyes. It was Blanchette who took out the
pearls and held them up in the lamplight, and
appraised their value with the keenness of a
jeweller and screamed in rapture over their
size and colour.

'They are the pigeon's eggs!' she cried,
and four ropes of them ; they must be worth
an empire. They are as fine as mamma's,
and she has only three rows. I will marry into
the finance myself. Oh, what a happy creature
you are ! Brown says it all came out of your
going to gather flowers in his garden. Is that
true ? How clever it was of you ! Who would
ever have believed you were so clever, with
your silent ways and your countryfied scruples.

Let me see his note? You will not? What
nonsense ! You must put the pearls on. Let
me fasten them. Four ropes ! They are fit
for a Court ball. What a corbeille he will send

you ! '

As she chattered she clasped it round the
throat of her cousin, who grew red, then white,
as the pearls touched her skin. They made
her realise the immense change which one short
day had made in her lot. They made her
realise that Othmar henceforth was her lover.

While Blanchette chirped and skipped
around her, directing her toilette with the accurate
instinct in decoration of a little Parisienne,
the eyes of the girl were suffused with unshed
tears of gratitude and tremulous joy.

1 What can I render thee, O princely* giver ? '

she was saying in her heart, although she had
never read the Portuguese sonnets ; while her
little cousin babbled on of jewels and addresses,
and horses and establishments, and
dowries and settlements, and the regime dotal,
and all the man 7 matters which meant marriage
to the precocious comprehension of Blanchette.
You will have your box at all the theatres,

will you not ? You have never been to a
theatre, but I have. Mind that you go the
evening after your marriage. When will your
marriage be ? I heard mamma say that he
wished it to be very soon : but then there is all
your lingerie, and all your gowns to be made.
I suppose mamma will give you your trousseau
; she must. Oh, how happy you ought to
be, and you look just as grave as an owl ! Nobody
would guess you were going to be the
Countess Othmar. Do you know that he could
be made a prince if he liked? You have
never learned to ride, Yseulte. What a pity !
It is so chic to ride early in the Bois. Well,
you will have a coupe for the early morning,
and then you will have a Dumont for the
afternoon, of course. There is nothing so
pretty as postillions in velvet jackets and
caps  if you only knew what colour his
liveries are ? Won't you have out-riders ? I do
not know, though, whether you can ; I think
it is only ambassadresses and princesses of

the blood who may have out-riders

You might have a special train every day,'
continued Blanchette, exciting herself with her
own visions. ' There is nothing such fun as a

special train ; we had one when grandee was
dying at Bois le Eoy all in a moment and
wanted to see us ; it is so diverting to go on,
on, on, through all the stations, past all the
other trains, never stopping  pr-r-r-rut !'

Oh, hush, Blanche te ! What do I care
about those things ? ' murmured Yseulte, as she
put his note into the casket, locked it, and
slipped the little silver key in her bosom, blushing
very much as she did so.

It seemed so very wonderful to her that
such lines should have been written to her.
She wanted to be all alone to muse upon the
marvel of it. She remembered a little nook
in the convent garden where a bench was fixed
against the high stone wall, under the branches
of an old medlar tree ; a place that she had
gone to with her sorrows, her fancies, her
visions, her tears, very often ; she would have
liked to have gone now to some such quiet
and solitary nook, to realise in peace this
miracle which had been wrought for her.
But that was impossible ; they had ordered her
to dine with them at eight  her first great
dinner. She must submit to be gazed at, commented
on, complimented, felicitated.

The sensitive, delicate nature of the child
shrank from the publicity of her triumph ; but
she understood that it was her duty, that henceforth
these things would be a prominent portion
of her duties ; the wife of Othmar could not
live shut away from the world.

Blanchette tossed her golden head with immeasurable
contempt.

4 It is all " those things " that make a grand
mariage. If you think you do not care now,
you will care in a year's time. Mamma said so.
Mamma said you will be just like anybody else
when you shall have been in the world six
months.'

Yseulte shook her head with a smile, but
she sighed a little also ; it pained her that the
world, and all it gave, was so intermingled with
this beautiful, incredible, dream-like joy which
had come to her like some vision brought by
angels. In the singleness and sincerity of her
young heart she thought : ' Ah ! if only he
were poor !  how I wish he were poor ! 
then they would know and he ! '

But he w T as not poor, and he had sent her
pearls worthy of an empress, and Blanchette
was dancing before her in envy, longing to be

sixteen years old too and betrothed to an archie


She cast one last timid glance at herself
and at "the great pearls lying beneath the
slender ivory column of her throat, then she
drew on her long gloves, and went, with a
quickly-beating heart, down the staircase, Blanched
shouting after her Judic's song, 

On ne peut pas savoir ce que c'est,

Ce que c'est,
Si on n'a pas passe par la !

which the child had caught up from the echoes
of the boulevards, and sang with as much byplay
and meaning as Judic herself could have
put into it.

There were some twenty people assembled
in the oval drawing-room when Yseulte entered
it. It was not of them she was afraid : it was
of seeing Othmar before them. There was a
murmur of admiration as she appeared in her
childish white dress, with the superb necklace
on, which a queen might have worn at a
Court ball. Her shyness did not impair her
grace ; the stateliness and pride which were in
her blood gave her composure even in her
timidity ; her eyes were dark and soft with

conflicting feelings, her colour came and went.
She never spoke audibly once in answer to all
the compliment and felicitation she received,
but she looked so lovely and so young that no
one quarrelled with her silence. When Othmar
gave her his arm she trembled from head to
foot, but no one noticed it save Othmar himself.

Do not be afraid of me, my child he
murmured, and for the first time she took
courage and looked at him with a rapid glance
that was like a beam of sunlight. The look
said to him, ' I am not afraid, I am grateful ; I
love you, only I dare not say so, and I hardly
understand what has happened.'

The dinner seemed both to her and to
him interminable ; she was quite silent through
it, and ate nothing. She was conscious of
a sullen gaze which her cousin, de Vannes,
fastened on her, and which made her feel
that, by him, she was unforgiven. She was
confused by the florid speech made to her by
the Baron Friederich, who was so enchanted by
her that he put no measure to his audible
admiration. Othmar, seated beside her, said
very little. The party was gay, and the conversation
animated. The silence of each of

vol. 11. 1

them passed unnoticed. The Duchesse, who
alone remarked it, said to Eaymond de Prangins :
It is their way of being in love ; it is the
old way, which they have copied out of Lamartine
and Bernardin de St. Pierre. It is infinitely
droll that Othmar should play the sentimental
lover, but he does. I want JSTadine Napraxine
to see him like that. I asked her to dinner,
but they had a dinner party at home. She
sent me a little line just now, promising, if her
people were gone, to come for an hour in the
evening. The child looks well, does she not?
What jewels he has given her ! They are
bigger than mine. It is the least he can do ;
the Finance is bound to buy big jewels. Who
would ever have supposed he would have seen
anything in that baby, that convent mouse ? To
be sure, she is handsome. Such a marriage
for that little mouse to make ! a mere baby
like that, a child proud of being the medallion
of her convent yesterday ! After all, nothing
takes some men like that air of innocence,
which bores them to death as soon as they have
put an end to it. It is like dew ; it is like
drinking milk in the meadow in the morning;
we don't care for the milk, but the doctors say

it is good for us, and so I wonder what

she is thinking about. About her gowns, I
dare say, or about her jewels. She is just like
a vignette out of " Paul et Virginie." She
need not pretend to be in love with him ; no
one will believe in it ; he will not believe in
it himself ; he is too rich. What can he have
seen in her more than in five thousand other
fillettes he might have married ? To be sure
she is handsome. She will be handsomer '

She put up her eyeglass and looked down
the table at her yoimg cousin with amusement
and envy, mingled as they mingled in little
Blanchette. The amusement was at the girl's
evident embarrassment, the envy was of her
youth, of her complexion, of her form, of all
.which told her own unerring instincts that
Yseulte in a few years, even in a few months,
would be one of the most beautiful women of
her world.

And she said angrily to de Prangins, ' Some
men like children ; it is as boys like green
apples.'

6 At least the green apples are not painted,'
thought the young man as he murmured aloud
a vague compliment. Eaymond de Prangins,

like most men of his age, had never looked
twice at a fillette ; he had been three weeks in
the same house with this child and had never
addressed a word to her or noticed whether
her eyes were black or brown ; but now that
she had become the betrothed wife of Othmar,
the charm of the forbidden fruit had come to
her ; she had suddenly become an object of
interest in his sight ; lie was never tired of
finding out her beauties, he was absorbed in
studying the shape of her throat, the colour of
her hair, the whiteness of her shoulders, which
came so timidly and with a little shiver, like
shorn lambs, out of the first low bodice that
she had ever worn. To know that she was
about to belong to another man, gave her all at
once importance, enchantment, and desirability .
in his sight.

CHAPTER XXI.

Immediately that the dinner was over Othmar
made his excuses and left Milloo to take the
night express to Paris. When once she knew
that he was absent, she lost all fear.

Her innocent love was at that stage when
the presence of a lover is full of trouble and
alarm, and the happiest hours are those in
which his absence permits its dreams to wander
about her memory undisturbed. When he was
there he was still, to her, a stranger whose gaze
embarrassed her, whose touch confused her,
whose association with herself was unfamiliar
and unreal ; but, away from him, there was
nothing to check or dismay those spiritual and
poetic fancies which had lodged their ideal in
him. No one of those around her would ever
have imagined that she had these fancies, or
would have understood them in the slightest
degree ; they only thought that she was very
naturally enraptured to be chosen by a very

rich man, and did not doubt that in her mind
she was musing, as Blanchette had suggested,
on the colour of her liveries, the number of
her horses, the places of her residence, and the
prospect of her jewels.

Baron Fritz, who made her blush with the
fervour of his compliments, and was so delighted
with her that he could not cease from gazing at
her as though she were a water-colour of Copley
Fielding's, was alone sufficiently sympathetic,
despite all his seventy years of cynicism, to
perceive that the things of this world had little
place in her thoughts, and he thought to himself
as he looked at her :

8 Will Otho be wise enough to appreciate
all that ? He will have the carnation in its
bud, the peach in its flower ; he will make just
what he pleases of them ; the worse will be if
he should leave them altogether alone : then
the carnation will unfold, the peach will ripen
and come out into fruit unnoticed, and if lie
be an ingrate, they will both come to their
perfection for someone else  which will be a
pity. The child is in love with him  parbleu I
he does not deserve it ; he only cares for his
Eussian woman, his hothouse narcissus ; he only

wants to cure himself of Nadine Napraxine ;
as if one blush of this child's cheek were not
worth a century of Madame Napraxine's languor
! '

And he felt a passing regret that he was
not forty years younger and in the place of
his nephew.

After dinner he seated himself beside Yseulte,
and talked to her of Othmar, of his boyhood,
of his talents, of his opportunities, and of his
destinies, with so much tact and so much skill
that she was moved to an affectionate gratitude
towards the speaker and to a sense of infinite
awe before all the ambitions and responsibilities
with which he filled her future.

She is a baby, but she is not a fool,'
thought the wise old man. ' When the love
fever has passed, we shall make of her just what
we want, provided only that she has influence
over Oth o. But will she have any ? In marriage
there is always one who rules the other :
un qui se baisse, et V autre qui tend la joue " :
and it is always the one who cares who goes
under.'

Even as he had eaten his truffles and drunk
the fine wines grown on the de Valines' estates

in Gironde, he had been more troubled by an
impersonal anxiety than he had ever allowed
himself to be in the whole course of his existence.
The child had sat opposite to him,
looking so youthful beside-the faces, more or
less maquillees, of the women around her,
with her soft surprised eyes, happy as those of
a child that wakes from sleep, and her colour
coming and going, delicate and warm : ' And
he will not stay here to see, just because the.
desire for another woman is in him like a fly
in the ear of a horse ! ' had thought the Baron
impatiently. He guessed very accurately that
the departure of Othmar was due to a restless
unwillingness to face the fate which he had
voluntarily made for himself.

He himself had had no heed of Othmar 's
marriage except as a means of legally continuing
his race ; his only notion of a woman
was Napoleon's, that she should bear many
children ; but as he looked at Yseulte de
Valogne, something kinder and more pitiful
stirred in his selfish old heart ; she seemed to
him too good to be sacrificed so ; he understood
that there would be other things than
money and children which this sensitive plant

would want ; and worldly, unemotional, and unprincipled
as he was, Baron Fritz was the only
person present who divined something of the
dreams which she was dreaming and felt a compassionate
regret for them, as for flowers which
opened at dawn to die perforce at noonday.

About eleven o'clock in the evening, when
Yseulte was beginning to feel her eyelids grow
heavy, and was thinking wistfully of her little
white bed amidst the murmur of conversation
unintelligible to her and the stare of inquisitive
eyes, she heard with a little thrill of an emotion
quite new to her the voice of the groom of the
chambers, which announced Madame la Princesse
Napraxine.

Jealousy she was too young, too simple,
and too innocent to know ; but a strange
eagerness and an unanalysed pain moved her
as she saw the woman whom they said that
Othmar loved.

4 Is that really Madame Napraxine ? ' she
said in a low voice to the Baron, who was
beside her.

1 Who has told you of Madame Napraxine ? '
he thought, as he answered her : ' Yes ! that is
the name of the lady coming in now ; she is a

famous European beauty, though to my taste
she is too slender and too pale.'

The girl did not reply ; her eyes followed
the trail of Princess Nadine's pale primrose-coloured
skirts laden with lace, and fastened
here and there with large lilies and lilac. Before
that inimitable grace, that exquisite languor
and ease, that indescribable air of indifference
and of empire and of disdain which made the
peculiar power of Nadine Napraxine, the poor
child felt her own insignificance, her own childishness,
her own powerlessness ; she fancied she
must look rustic, awkward, stupid : she grew
very pale, and her throat swelled with pain
under her lover's pearls.

It is too early for you to have that adder
in your breast,' thought Friederich Othmar, ashe
watched her. ' What a coward he was to
go away, instead of standing his ground beside
you ! After all, why is everyone so afraid of
this Russian woman ? '

Aloud, he only said : ; The Princess is
coining to you ; courage, mon enfant. A woman
of the world is certainly an alarming animal,
but you will have to meet many such, and
you will be one yourself before very long.'

1 Fillette, come and be presented to Mine.
Napraxine ; she wishes it,' said her cousin at
that moment in her ear. The girl shrank back
a little, and the colour came into her face ; she
rose, nevertheless, obediently.

Nadine Napraxine came half-way to meet
her, with an indulgent little smile, of which the
compassion and disdain penetrated the inmost
soul of Yseulte with a cruel sense of inferiority.
Yet had she not been so humble and so embarrassed
she might have seen a look of surprise
in the eyes of her rival. Nadine saw at a
glance that in this child there was no ' Sainte
Mousseline ' to be easily derided and contemned.


How beautiful a woman she will be in a
year or two ! ' she thought, with that candour
which was never lacking in her in her judgments
of her greatest foes. ' He is going to
possess all that, and he only sighs in his soul
for me !  what fools men are ! '

While she so thought, she was still smiling
as she came to meet Yseulte with that slow,
soft, indescribable grace of which she had the
secret.

'I am an old friend of Count Othmar's ;

you must let me be yours in the future,' she
said with gracious kindliness. ' Shall I offend
you if I venture to say that I am sure he is a
very happy and fortunate person ? I dare say
I shall please you better if I say that he deserves
to be so.'

The girl could not have found words to
answer to save her life. Instinctively she made
her grand eighteenth-century curtsy in acknowledgment.
She was very pale ; her heart
seemed to sink within her as she realised all
the charm of this her rival.

Mme. de Vannes murmured a few amiable
words, and left them opposite to one another ;
the girl trembled despite herself, as those indolent
lustrous eyes scanned her with merciless
investigation and smiled at her embarrassment.


It was her first experience of that obligation,
so constant in the world, to meet what is
dreaded and disliked with suavity and compliment.


6 I am a great friend of your cousin, too,'
continued Nadine Napraxine, with all the
amiable condescension of a woman of the world
to a child. ' We shall be sure to meet constantly

in the years to come, which will leave
you so young and make us so old ! Where
have you lived ? In an old Breton convent ?
I wish I had lived in a Breton convent too !
Come and sit by me and talk to me a little.
Do you know that I am here to night on
purpose to see you. I had a tiresome dinner,
all of Eussian people, or I should have come
here earlier.'

She drew the girl down beside her on a sofa
with that pretty imperiousness of which women
as well as men often felt the charm and the
command. She was most kindly, most gentle,
most nattering, yet Yseulte suffered under all
her gracious compliments as under the most
poignant irony. She answered in monosyllables
and at random ; she was ill at ease and confused,
she looked down with the fascination of
a bird gazing at a snake on the hand which
held hers, such a slender hand in its tan-coloured
glove and with its circles of porte-bonheur
above the wrist, and its heavy bracelets
crowding one another almost to the elbow.

She would not have spoken more than Yes
or No to save her life, and she said even these
in 'the wrong places ; but Nadine Napraxine did

not make the mistake of thinking her stupid, as
less intelligent women would have done.

She studied her curiously whilst she continued
to speak those amiable and careless
nothings which are the armoury of social life ;
toy weapons of which the young know neither
the use nor the infinite value. She had all
the kindly condescension, the good-humoured,
amused indulgence, of a grown woman of the
world for a schoolgirl ; by dates she was only
seven years older than Yseulte de Valogne, butin
experience and knowledge she was fifty years
her senior.

\ Elle est vraiment tres Men, she said, as
she turned away from the girl and took the
arm of Friederich Othmar. 'At present she is
like a statue in the clay, like a sketch, like
a magnolia flower folded up ; but Othmar will
change all that. You must be so glad ; his
marriage must have been such an anxiety to
you. Suppose he had married a Mongol!
What would you have done ? '

It was not precisely of the Mongol that
I was most afraid, Madame,' replied the Baron.
Do you think too that a marriage is a termination
to anyone's anxieties ? Surely, the

dangerous romance begins afterwards in life as
in novels.'

It would be very dull reading in either if
it did not,' said Madame Napraxine. ' But we
will hope that Mademoiselle and your nephew
will read theirs together, and eschew the
dangers ; that is possible sometimes ; and she
will have one great advantage for the next five
years ; she will be handsomer every year.'

4 It will be a great advantage if he find her
so, but perhaps only others will find her so ;
marriage does not lend rose-coloured spectacles
to its disciples,' thought the Baron, as he
answered aloud, ' There can be no one's opinion
that he could value as much as he is sure to do
that of Madame Napraxine.'

I imagine my opinion matters nothing at
all to him,' she answered, with her enigmatical
smile. ' But when I see him I shall certainly
be able to congratulate him with much more
truth than one can usually put into those
conventionalities. Mademoiselle de Valogne is
very beautiful.'

The Baron sadly recalled the saying of that
wise man who was of opinion that it makes
little difference after three months whether

your wife be a Venus or a Hottentot ; but he
did not utter this blasphemy to a lovely woman.

The girl remained on her sofa gazing wistfully
after this elegant who had all the knowledge
which she lacked, and who impressed her
so sadly with an indefinite dull sense of inferiority
and of helplessness. She put her hand
up to her throat and felt for his pearls ; they
seemed like friends ; they seemed to assure her
of his affection and of the future. People
thought she was proud of them because they
were so large, so perfect in colour and shape,
so royal in their value ; she would have been as
pleased with them if they had been strings of
berries out of the woods, and he had sent them
with the same message and meaning.

She watched Nadine Napraxine with fascinated
eyes ; wondering where w T as the secret
of that supreme seduction which even she, in
her convent-bred simplicity, could feel was in
her. In the few words which had been addressed
to her she was dimly conscious that
the other disdained her as a child, and derided
Othmar as a fool.

Madame de Vannes roused her from her
preoccupation with a tap of her fan.

1 How grave you look, villette she said with
some impatience. ' You must never look like
that now you are in the world. Everyone
detests grave people. If you cannot always
smile, stay in your convent.'

8 1 beg your pardon,' murmured Yseulte,
waking from her meditation with a little shock.
4 1 did not know  I w T as thinking '

That is just what you must not do when
you are in society. What were you thinking
of? You looked very sombre.'

The girl coloured and hesitated, then she
said very low :

The other day  the day of the casket 
you said he loved her  was it true? '

She glanced across the room at Nadine
Napraxine as she spoke.

4 Did I say so ? ' answered the Duchesse,
with annoyance at herself. * Then I talked
great nonsense. But how was I to know then
that he was thinking of you ? Listen to me,
fillette, she continued, with more real kindness
in her tone than the girl had ever heard there.
You will hear all kinds of scandals, insinuations,
stories of all sorts in the world that you
will live in ; never listen to them, or you will

vol. 11. K

be perpetually irritated and unhappy. People
say all sorts of untruths out of sheer idleness ;
they must talk. M. Othmar must certainly
have some very especial esteem for you, or
why should he choose you out of all womankind
for his wife? That is all you have to
think of; do not perplex yourself as to whom
he may, or may not, have loved beforehand.
All your care must be that he shall love no one
else afterwards. You are tired, I think ; go to
bed, if you like : you can slip away unnoticed.
You are only a child yet.'

Yseulte went at once, thankful for the
permission, yet looking wistfully still at the,
delicate head of Machine Napraxine, as it rose
up from a collar of emeralds. Madame de
Vannes passed to the music room, where a
little operetta was being given, with a vague
compassion stirring in her.

I am sure the old Marquise could not have
given her more moral advice than I,' she
thought, ' but I am afraid the silly child will
have trouble, she is so old-fashioned. Why
cannot she marry the man, and enjoy all he
will give her, without perplexing herself as to
what fancies he may have had for other people ?

What does it matter? She will have to get
used to that sort of thing. If it be not Nadine
who makes her jealous, it will be someone else ;
but one could not tell her that. How right I
was not to send Blanchette and Toinou to a
convent ! The holy women make them so
romantic, so emotional, so pleurnicheuses I '

At the same moment Nadine Napraxine
said, when she had left her and was speaking
to Melville of her :

'She is very interesting. She will have
plenty of character; he thinks that he is marrying
a child ; he forgets that she will grow up, and
that very rapidly. Marriage is a hothouse for
women who are young. I was married at her
age ; in three months' time I felt as old  as
old  as old as I do now. Nobody can feel
older! You are sixty-five, you say, and you are
so young. That is because you are not married
and can believe in Paradise.'

6 You mean that I hope for compensation ? '
said Melville, with his pleasant laugh.

Or that you keep your illusions. There
is so much in that. People who do are always
young. I do not think I ever had any to
lose I '

K 2

It is great emotions which make happy illusions,
and I believe you have never permitted
those to approach you ? '

I have viewed them from afar off, as
Lucretius says one ought to see a storm.'

I do not doubt you have seen them very
often, Princess,' said Melville, with significance.
But as you have not shared them, they have
passed by you like great waves which leave no
mark upon the smoothness of the sand on which
they break.'

Perhaps,' she said, while her mind reverted
to the scene of which her boudoir had been the
theatre three days before ; then she added a
little abruptly : ' You know Mile, de Valogne
well  you are interested in her? What do
you think of her marriage ? '

8 1 have known her from the time she was
four years old,' replied Melville. 4 1 have seen
her at intervals at the convent of Faiel. I am
convinced she has no common character ; she is
very unlike the young girls one sees in the
world, who have had their course of Danville,
Aix, and Biarritz. She is of the antique French
patrician type ; perhaps the highest human type
that the world has ever seen, and the most

capable of self-restraint, of heroism, of true distinction,
and of loyalty. I fancy Elizabeth de
France must have been just such a girl as is
Yseulte de Valogne.'

8 What eulogy !' returned his companion,
with a little incredulous accent. ' I have
always wondered that your Church did not
canonize the Princess Elizabeth. But you
do not tell me what you think of the marriage.'


Melville smiled.

I might venture to prophecy if the success
of a marriage depended on two persons, but
it depends on so many others.'

You are very mysterious ; I do not see
what others have to do with it.'

'And yet,' thought Melville, 'how often
you have stretched out your delicate fingers
and pushed down the most finely wrought web
of human happiness  just for pastime ! '

Aloud he said : ' If she and he were about
to live their lives on a desert island, I am convinced
they would be entirely suited to each
other. But as they will live in the world, and
perforce in what they call the great world, who
shall presume to say what their marriage will

become ? It may pass into that indifferent and
amiable friendship which is the most usual
issue of such marriages, or it may grow into
that direct antagonism which is perhaps its still
commoner result ; on the other hand, it may
become that perfect flower of human sympathy
which, like the aloe, blossoms once in a century
; but, if that miracle happen, such flowers
are not immortal ; an unkind grasp will suffice
to break them off at the root. On the whole,
I am not especially hopeful ; she is too young,
and he '

And he ? ' said Nadine Napraxine, with a
gleam of curiosity in her glance.

I am not his confessor ; I doubt if he ever
confess  to his own sex,' replied Melville ;
but if I had been, I should have said to him :
My son, one does not cure strong fevers with
meadow-daisies ; wait till your soul is cleansed
before you offer it to a child whom you take
from God." That is what I should have said
in the confessional ; but I only know Othmar
on the neutral ground of society. I cannot
presume to say it there.'

You are too serious, Monsignore,' said
Nadine, with her enigmatical smile. ' Marriage

is not such a very serious thing, I assure you.
Ask Plato.'

Prince JNTapraxine is exceptionally happy,'
said Melville, so gravely that she laughed gaily
in his face.

Meanwhile Yseulte dismissed the maid,
undressed herself slowly, kissed the pearls
when she had unclasped them ; and, kneeling
down under her crucifix, said many prayers for
Othmar.

She was soon asleep, like a tired child, and
she had his note under her pillow ; nevertheless,
she dreamed of Nadine Napraxine, and
her sleep was not the pure unbroken rest that
she had always had before. Once she awoke
in a great terror, her heart beating, her limbs
trembling.

If he did not love me ! ' she cried aloud ;
then the light of the lamp fell on the open
casket, on the necklace of pearls. They seemed
to say to her, ' What should he want with you,
unless he loved you ? '

She fell asleep again, and with a smile on
her face.

CHAPTER XXII.

The fortnight passed away rapidly and dizzily
for her. They took her at once to Paris, and
gave her no time for thought. She lived in a
perpetual movement, which dazzled her as a
blaze of fireworks would dazzle a forest doe.
All the preparations of a great marriage were
perpetually around her, and she began to
realise that the world thought her lot most
enviable and rare. Often her head ached and
her ears were tired with the perpetual stream
of compliment and felicitation, the continual
demands made on her time, on her patience, on
her gratitude. What would have been ecstasy
to Blanchette was to her very nearly pain.
There were moments when she almost longed
for the great, still, walled gardens of the Dames
de Ste. Anne, for her little whitewashed room,
her rush chair in the chapel, her poor grey
frock.

Then she thought of Othmar, and the

colour came into her face and she was happy,
though always unquiet and a little alarmed, asa
dove is when its owner's hand is stretched
out to it.

To Yseulte he was a hero, a saint, an ideal.
He had come so suddenly into her life, he had
transformed it so completely, that he had something
of a magical fascination and glory for her.
She knew nothing of the House of Othmar, or
of their position in finance ; if she had understood
it, she would have disliked it with the
instinctive pride of a daughter of ' les preux ; '
she had a vague, confused idea of him as the
possessor of great power and wealth, but that
taint of commerce, which in Othmar's eyes
soiled every napoleon he touched, had not
dimmed his majesty for her.

She was never allowed to see him alone ;
her cousin insisted on the strictest observance of
i les convenances,' and though a Borneo would
have found means to circumvent these rules, her
lover did not. He was glad of the stiff laws
of etiquette which forbade him unwitnessed
interviews. He felt that if she asked him
straightway, with her clear eyes on his, what
love he had for her, a lie would not come

easily to bis lips. He was lavish of all offerings
to her, as though to atone materially for the
feeling that was wanting in him. The Duchesse
was herself astonished at the magnificence and
frequency of his gifts. Unasked, he settled
S. Pharamond and an estate in Seine et Oise
upon her in absolute possession, while a commensurate
income was secured to her to render
her wholly independent in the future of any
whim or will of his own.

'He is really very generous,' said the
Duchesse to herself. ' But what perplexes me
is, he is not in love ; not the very least in love !
If he were, one would understand it all. But
he is not in the very slightest degree amourache ;
not half as much as Alain is.'

But she was heedful that no suggestion of
this fact, which her observation made clear to
her, should escape her before Yseulte or anyone
else. If he were not in love, yet still wished to
marry, it was his own affair ; and she was not
his keeper.

To Yseulte, it was absolute shame to find
that she was regarded by all who approached
her as having done something clever, won
something enviable in the lottery of life. A

vague distress weighed on her before the
motives which she felt were attributed to her.

When her cousin said to her, c Fillette, you
were really very audacious when you went
to gather those flowers at S. Pharamond. But
audacity succeeds  Voltaire and Napoleon were
right,' she could have wept with humiliation
and indignation.

Perhaps he thinks as badly of me, too ! '
she thought, in that perplexity which had never
ceased, since his gift of the ivory casket, to torment
her.

There is storm in the air,' said the Due once
to his wife ; ' Othmar will be like one of those
magicians who used to raise a force that they
could neither guide nor quell. He is making a
child worship him, and forgetting that he will
make her a woman, and that then she will
not be satisfied with being hung about with
trinkets, and set ankle deep in gold like an
Indian goddess. I am quite sure that this
marriage, which pleases you all so much, will
be a very unhappy one  some day.'

You think what you wish  all men do,' said
his wife. ' I have not a doubt that it will be
perfectly happy  as happy as any marriage is,

that is to say. She will adore him ; men like
to be adored. You can only get that from somebody
very young. He will never say an unkind
word to her, and he will never object, however
much she may spend. If she cannot be content
with that '

The Due laughed derisively.

Gold ! gold ! gold ! That is the joy of the
caroline, not of Yseulte de Valogne. What
she will want will be love, and he will not give
it her. With all deference to you, I see the
materials for a very sombre poem in your
epopee. 9

I repeat, your wish is father to your
thought. On the theatres women do rebel, and
stab themselves, or other people, but in real life
they are very much more pliable, In a year's
time she will not care in the least about Othmar
himself, but she will have grown to like the
world and the life that she leads in it. She
will have learnt to amuse herself; she will not
fret if he pass his time elsewhere '

You are entirely wrong,' said de Vannes,
with irritation. ' She is a child now, but in a
few weeks she will be a woman. Then he will
find that you cannot light a fire on grass and

leave the earth scorched. She has the blood
of Gui che Valogne. She will not be a saint
always. If she find herself neglected, she will
not forgive it when she shall understand what
it means. If he be her lover after marriage, all
may be well ; I do not say the contrary. But
if he neglect her then, as he neglects her
now '

8 Pray, do not put such follies into her head.
Neglected! When not a day passes that he
does not send her the most marvellous presents,
does not empty on her half the jewellers' cases
out of Europe and Asia.'

He makes up in jewels what he wants in
warmth,' said Alain de Vannes. ' At present
she is a baby, a little saint, an innocent ; as
ignorant as her ivory Madonna ; but in six
months' time she will be very different. She
will know that she belongs to a man who does
not care for her ; she will want all that he
does not give her ; she will be like a rich red
rose opening where all is ice '

You go to the theatres till you get melodramatic,'
said his wife, with contempt. ; I do
not believe she will ever have any passions at
all ; she will always be the ivory saint. 5

Alain de Vannes laughed grimly.

6 Women who are beautiful and have good
health are never saints,' he said, ' and saints are
not married at sixteen.'

Francoise Romaine was,' said his wife,
who always had the last word in any discussion.


Othmar was more restless than he had ever
been in his life, more dissatisfied, and more impatient
of fate. Yet he was not sure that he
would have undone what he had done, even if
honour would have allowed him.

The tenderness which Yseulte had awakened
in him, though it could not compete with the
passion another had aroused in him, made him
feel a charm in her presence, a solace in her
youthfulness. The restrictions imposed on their
intercourse sustained the mystic spiritual grace
which the young girl had in his eyes, and it
prevented any possible chance of disillusion or
of fatigue on his part. Hers was really the
virginal purity, as of a white rosebud which
has blossomed in the shade. He was not insensible
to its beauty, even whilst a beauty of
another kind had fuller empire upon him. He
had done an unwise thing, but he said to himself

continually, ' At least I have made one innocent
creature happy, and surely I shall be
able to continue to do so ; she can hardly be
more difficult to content than a dove or a fawn.'

He forgot, as so many men do forget, that
in this life, which seemed to him like the dovelike
the fawn's, there would be all the latent
ardours of womanhood ; that in the folded
rosebud there was the rose-tinted heart, in
which the bee would sting. They met at ceremonies,
banquets, great family reunions, solemn
festivities, in which all the Faubourg took part.
She was intensely, exquisitely, happy when she
was conscious that he was near her, but she
was as silent as a statue and as timid as a
bird when he looked at her or addressed her.
Every day, every hour, was increasing what
was to become the one absorbing passion of
her life, but he was too indifferent, or too
engrossed by other thoughts, to note the
growth of this innocent love. Alain de Vannes
saw much more of it than he.

She had the spiritual loveliness for him
which S. Cecilia had in the eyes of the Woman
centurion who wedded with her ; a more delicate
and more ethereal charm than that which

only springs from the provocation of the senses.
A caress to her seemed almost a profanity : to
disturb her innocent soul with the grossness of
earthly love seemed like a sort of sacrilege.

The whole of this time was a period of
restless doubt with him, and the sense that he
had not been honest with her rebuked him
whenever he met the timid worship of her
wistful eyes. He thought, ' She would not give
herself to me, if she knew ! '

He was impatient to have all the tumult
and folly which precede a great marriage over
and done with. Every detail annoyed him ;
every formula irritated him.

c All I entreat is, that there may be no
delay,' he said so often to her cousin, that
Madame de Vannes ended in believing that
he must be much more enamoured than his
manner had betokened, and said with amusement
to her husband :

6 It has often been disputed whether a man
can be in love with two persons at one time :
Othmar is so, unquestionably. It is like the
bud and the fruit on the same bough of
camellia.'

It is to be hoped that when the bud is a

flower the fruit will fall,' said de Vannes, with
a grim smile.

You are not sincere when you say that,'
said the Duchesse, ' and you know that both
always fall  after a time.'

A law of nature,' said her husband. ' And
it is a law of nature also that others come in
their place.'

6 My dear friend,' said Aurore de Vannes,
with good-natured contempt, 'when Yseulte
shall have followed the laws of nature in that
way, believe me, it is not you who will profit
by them. You were good-looking ten years
ago  or more  but absinthe and ararat does
not improve the looks after five-and-twenty, and
you have crow's-feet already, and will soon
have to dye your hair if you wish still to look
young. Yseulte will never think of you except
as a vieux cousin who was kind enough to give
her a locket  if she will even do that when she
has got all the diamonds that she will get as
Countess Othmar.'

Meantime, Othmar himself was constantly
saying to the Duchesse :

1 1 put myself completely in your hands ;
only, all I beseech of you, Madame, is not to

VOL. 11. l

delay my marriage longer than you are absolutely
obliged.'

He does not say his happiness,' thought
Madame de Vannes, as she said aloud, ' Well,
what will seem terrible to you ? I think I
ought to exact a delay of at least six months.
She is so very young.'

4 It is her youth that is delightful to me,' he
replied abruptly. ' I am old enough to need
its charm. I should be glad if you would consent
to our nuptials very soon  say within a
fortnight. I have already instructed my solicitors
to meet you and to make whatever settlements
you and the Due de Vannes may desire
upon Mademoiselle de Valogne.'

What ! carte blanche ? ' thought Cri-Cri,
with a wonder which she took care to conceal,
whilst she objected that such speed as he desired
was impossible, was quite unheard of, would be
indecorous : there were so many things to be
done ; but in the end she relented, consented to
name that day month, and reflected that he
should pay for his haste in the marriage contract.
It would make no difference to herself
whether he settled ten millions or ten pence
on her young cousin, but it seemed to her that

she was not doing her duty unless, in condescending
to ally herself with la Finance, she
did not shear its golden fleeces unscrupulously.

In her own mind she reflected that it was
as well the marriage should take place speedily,
for she perceived that his heart was not much
in it. She divined that some alien motive
actuated him in his desire for it, and she would
have regretted if any breach had occurred to
prevent it ; for, although she professed to her
intimate friends that she disliked the alliance
excessively, she was nevertheless very gratified
at her own relative having borne off such a
great prize as Oth mar. One never knew either
how useful such a connection as his might not
become.

4 1 would never have let her marry into
the Juiverie, she said to her husband. * But
Othmar is quite different ; his mother was an
English duke's daughter, his grandmother was a
de Soissons-Valette, he has really good blood.'

And besides that,' said de Yannes savagely,
he is a man whom all Europe has sighed to
marry ever since he came of age. Why do
you talk such nonsense to me ? It is waste of
good acting ! '

L 2

6 As you wasted your medallion,' said his
wife, with a malicious enjoyment. ' If she had
taken the veil, you would have been quite
capable of eloping with her, the very infamy of
the action would have delighted you. But
Othmar will certainly not let you make love to
his wife ; he is just the sort of man to be
jealous.'

Of Nadine Napraxine, not of his own
wife ! ' said de Vannes, with an angry laugh.
6 Marry them quickly, while he is in the mind,
and before Madame Napraxine can spoil the
thing. In six months' time he will return to
her, but that will not matter ; our little cousin
will be Countess Othmar, and will probably
learn to console herself.'

You are not hopeless ? ' said his wife,
much amused. ' Well, I do not think with
you. I believe that Nadine Napraxine has
never been anything to Othmar ; that the child,
on the contrary, is passionately in love with
him ; and that the marriage will be a very
happy one.'

Alain de Vannes shrugged his shoulders.
He was very angry that the matter had turned
out as it had done ; the more angry that it was

wholly impossible for him to display or to
express his discomfiture, and that he was compelled
to be amiable to Othmar and to all the
world in relation to it, and bear himself before
everyone as the friend and guardian of his
wife's cousin. His fancy for her had been a
caprice rather than anything stronger, but it
was resentful in its disappointment and impotence,
and might even be capable of some
vengeance.

Faiel had left sweet, solemn memories with
the girl : the green gloom of the fern-brakes
and the wooded lanes, the soft grey summers,
and the evenings with their mysterious silvery
shadows ; the silent corridors, the tolling bells,
the altars with their white lilies, the pathetic
monotonous voices of the nuns  all were blent
together in her recollection into a picture full
of holiness and calm. Now that she knew
what the gipsy woman had meant, she wished
to be there for a little while to muse upon her
vast happiness, her wondrous future, and consecrate
them both.

She asked for, and obtained, permission to
go to her old convent in retreat for the two
weeks before her marriage. Madame de Vannes

was inclined to refuse what she regarded as
excessive and eccentric, but Othmar obtained
her consent.

It pleased him that she should pass her
time before her marriage with the holy women
who had trained her childhood ; it was not so
that Nadine Napraxine had spent the weeks
preceding her soulless union.

'You wish not to see her for two whole
weeks ? ' said the Duchesse, suspiciously.

I wish her to do always what she wishes,'
he answered.

She will be a very happy woman then,'
said Cri-Cri, drily.

He added, with a little hesitation : c It is
her unlikeness to the world, her spirituality,
which has charmed me ; I wish her to retain
them.'

It will be difficult,' said the Duchesse, with
a laugh, ' Villette she said with amusement
to her young cousin, ' I do not know why you
are so very solemn about it all ; I assure you
the soul has very little to do with marriage, as
you will find out soon enough. Why should
you go in retreat as if you were about to enter
religion ? '

Yseulte coloured ; she answered timidly :
I am forgetting God ; it is ungrateful ; I am
too happy ; I mean  I grow selfish, I want to
be quiet a little while to remember '

The Duchesse laughed, much amused :
1 You ought decidedly to have taken the veil ;
you will be a religieuse manuel At your age
I thought of nothing but of my balls and my
bouquets, and of the costumes they gave me,
and of the officers of the Guides  Alain was in
the Guides, he was very good-looking at that
time. I must say Othmar and you are like no
lovers in the world that I have ever known.'

However, she gave her permission, and
Yseulte went to the ancient stone built fortress-like
house of Ariel, where the quiet corridors
were filled with the smell of dried herbs from
the nuns' distillery and the little grey figures of
the children played noiselessly under the leafless
chestnut avenues of the tranquil gardens. 

It was all so welcome to her after the
babble of Blanchette, the tumult of congratulation,
the succession of compliments, the perpetual
sense of being exhibited and examined, discussed
and depreciated ; but it did not change
her thoughts very much, for even in her

prayers her wondrous change of fate always
seemed with her, and she found that even
amongst her pious and unworldly Dames de
Ste. Anne the betrothed of Count Othmar was
received as a very different being to the dowerless
Yseulte de Valogne ; and something of
that bitterness which so often came to her
lover reached her through all her guilelessness.
Even Nicolee, also, embracing her with ardour
and tenderness, with the tears running down
her brown cheeks, and pleading for the right
to send her petite the orange-blossoms and
the lilies-of-the-valley for her bridal-dress, yet
amidst her joyful tears and tearful joy had
not forgotten to whisper : ' And, dis done, ma
mignonne, you will say a word now to the
Count Othmar to get my husband the municipal
concession to put up the steam mill ? It will
make our fortune, my angel, and I know what
a happiness that will be to you ! '

A fortune ! Money, money ! It seems
all they think of in the world ! ' the child
reflected sadly. ' What can Nicolee and San-drop
want with more money ? They are very
well off, and they have no children, no relations
even ; and yet all they think about

is laying by one napoleon on the top of
another ! It is horrible ! Even the Mother
Superior has never said to me how good he
is, how kind, how generous ; she only says that
I am fortunate because he is so rich ! They
make me feel quite wicked. I want to tell
them how mean they are ! Why am I so
much better and greater in their sight because
I am going to become rich too ? I thought
they cared for none of those things. But our
Reverend Mother asks me for a new altar
service as Blanchette asked me for a turquoise
necklace ! I understand why he is always a
little sad. He thinks no one cares for him, for
himself.'

And, after many days and nights of most
anxious thought and most entreating prayer,
she gathered up all her courage and wrote a
little letter to Othmar, the only one which she
had ever addressed to him ; she was afraid it
was a strange thing to do, and one perhaps
maidenly, but she could not resist her longing
to say that one thing to him, and so she
wrote :

Monsieur,  I do not know whether I
ought to say it, and I hope you will forgive

me if it be wrong to say so, but I have thought
often since I hear and see so much of your
great wealth that perhaps  perhaps  you may
imagine it is that which I care for ; but indeed
I do not ; if you were quite poor, very poor
tomorrow, it would be just the same to me,
and I should be just as happy. I do pray you
to believe this.

Yours, in affection and reverence,

6 Seule.'

She had hesitated very long before she
ventured to sign herself so, but in the end it
seemed to her that it could not be very
wrong as it stood : she owed him both affection
and reverence  even the Mother Superior
herself would say so.

She enclosed the little note in a letter to
her cousin the Duchesse, knowing that otherwise
it would not be allowed to pass the convent
walls. "When Madame de Vannes received it
she looked at it with suspicion.

If it should be any nonsense about Racine
Napraxine ? ' she thought with alarm ; 'if it
should be any folly that would break the marriage
? \

She decided that it would be unwise to
send it to Othmar without knowing what it
said, so she broke the little seal very carefully
and read it. Something in it touched her as
she perused the simple words, written so evidently
with a hand which trembled and a heart
that was full. She sealed it again and despatched
it to its destination. ' Poor little simpleton,'
she thought, 'why did she take the
trouble to say that ? She will not make him
believe it ! '

But he did believe it.

It was because she made the belief possible
to him that the child had seemed to him like
a young angel who brought healing on her
wings ; and the love which did not venture to
avow itself, but yet was visible in every one
of these timid sentences, went to his heart with
sweetness and unconscious reproach. He wrote
back to her :

I believe you, and I thank you. You give
me what the world cannot give nor command.'

And he added words of tenderness which,
if they would have seemed cold to an older ora
less innocent recipient, wholly contented her,
and seemed to her like a breath from heaven.

The fortnight soon passed, and after its quiet
days at Faiel, filled with the sounds so familiar
to her of the drowsy bells, the rolling organ
swell, the plaintive monotonous ch aunts and
prayers, the pacing of slow steps up and down
long stone passages, the grinding of the winch
of the great well in the square court, she felt
calmed and strengthened, and not afraid when
the Mother Superior spoke of all the responsibilities
of her future.

To her, marriage was a mystic, spiritual
union ; all she knew of it was gathered from
the expressions borrowed from it to symbolise
the union of Christ and His saints. She went
to it with as religious and innocent a faith as
she would have taken with her to the cloister
had they sent her there. If any human creature
can be as pure as snow, a very young girl who
has been reared by simple and pious women
is so. Even the Duchesse de Vannes felt a
vague emotion before that absolute ignorance
of the senses and of the passions of life.

'It is stupid,' she said to herself. 'But it
is lovely in its way. I can fancy a man likes
to destroy it  slowly, cruelly  just as a boy
pulls off butterflies' wings.'

CHAPTEE XXIII.

The first days of February came all too soon
for the vague fears of Yseulte, which throbbed
in her as the heart beats in a bird which feels a
captor's hand approaching. All the ridicule of
Blanchette and Toinon, all the good-natured
banter of their mother, and all the endless
congratulations of society which rained on her
like the almond blossoms which were falling in
showers in the wind, could not make her otherwise
than bewildered and alarmed, and as the
time of her marriage drew closer and closer her
terror almost obscured her happiness. No one
would have believed in it ; everyone, had they
known ' 4 the secrets of her shy and silent mind,
would have laughed at it as hypocrisy; but
with her it was most real.

Away from Othmar, she adored him ; but
near him, she dreaded him as a stranger who
was about to lead her into the strangest and
most terrible mysteries of life. But time stays

not for the sinking or the fluttering of any-poor
human heart, and they brought her from
the dim, cold, misty Breton country back into
the gay and crowded world of Paris ; and the
great rooms of her cousin's house, filled by
brilliant throngs for the signing of the contract,
brought home to her the inexorable fact
that her marriage would itself take place in
another forty-eight hours.

You are so ])&le,Jillette ! ' said the Duchesse
in some impatience. ' One would think that
we were forcing your inclinations ! '

Yseulte said nothing ; she could not have
explained the tumult of agitation which was
in her. She was marvellously happy ; and
yet

A lover who had loved her would have
divined and penetrated all those mingled
emotions, which were unintelligible to herself ;
but Othmar was too distrait and too absorbed
in thought, wherein she had no share, to do so.
Though she was the centre of the world around
her for the moment, the child remained in an
absolute solitude.

Friederich Othmar, studying her with his
exquisite power of penetration, alone perceived

her trouble, and thought with pleasure : \ The
poets are not quite the fools I deemed them ;
there is such a thing as a virginal soul in which
the senses do not speak, and to which the gewgaws
of the world say nothing either. I should
never have believed that, but I see it. He has
found a pearl, but he will not care for it. He
will absorb it into the acid of his own disappointed
passions, and then will be surprised
if it disappear.'

If he had been told a month earlier that he
would have had such sentimental regrets, he
would have been wholly incredulous, but something
in the sight of the young girl, in her innocent
gravity, with her wistful, changeful eyes,
touched him, as she stood by the table where
the marriage contract was signed. She seemed
to him too good to be wedded with indifference,
taught the fever of passion, the suffering
of maternity, and then be forsaken  as she
would be.

I am glad that I did not meet her, or one
like her, thirty years ago ; she woidd have
unnerved me,' he thought, as he stooped and
wrote his own name.

Amongst the nuptial gifts had been one of

great value from the Princess Napraxine. It
was a gold statuette of Love, modelled by
Mercie and standing on a base of jade and
agate. It had all the cruelty and irony of the
modern Italian school in it, for the poor Adoring
was trying to drink out of a gourd which was
empty, and the expression of his disappointed,
distressed, pathetic features was rendered with
admirable mockery and skill. He turned his
sad eyes ruefully on those who looked at him ;
some withered passion-flowers and a little asp
were near his feet. When Othmar saw it, his
farce darkened ; he thought it a jest at himself,
nor had the giver selected it without intention.
Behind the gold Adoring he seemed to see her
smiling, serene, jewel-like eyes, her delicate,
contemptuous mouth, which said : ' Va done !
C'est le vieuxjeul'

6 The only woman that I shall ever love ! '
he thought with . a thrill of remorse, of shame,
and of anger, all in one.

What right had he, while his veins were
hot with those unholy fires, to simulate love
for an innocent and virgin life ?

The morning came for which Blanchette and
Toinon had been longing for a month ; and clothed

in palest blue velvet, carrying white bouquets as
large as themselves, they wore at their throats
the new diamond lockets of their ambition,
with the miniature of their cousin within each,
for which they cared nothing at all. But the
diamonds were as large and as numerous as
ever their hearts could desire. ' Vidi ! II est
bon prince ! ' they cried in chorus, as they
skipped round each other, and made the sun
sparkle in the jewels, and sang the song of
Judic.

Then they went to the church of S. Philippe
du Eoule, and made their little naughty faces
as grave as mice that see a cat, while the
incense rose and the organ pealed, and the
Latin words rolled out sonorously, and the pale
wintry sunshine shone over the brilliant crowd
assembled there for the marriage.

Yseulte herself looked like a slender white
lily.

The deep peace and serenity of her convent
days had come there with her ; certain
instincts of her race kept her still and composed
with the eyes of so many strangers upon her ; a
dignity that was exquisitely graceful blended
with her childish air ; she looked like some

VOL. II. M

young princess of the Yalois time, such as
poets and painters still see in their dreams.

One of those special trains which Blanchette
thought the supreme privilege of marriage bore
them without a pause through the wintry landscapes
between Paris and Blois.

The day was fine and windless ; there was
a scent of spring which breathed through the
leafless poplars and willows, and over the frosted
fields and vineyards, with sweet, vague promise ;
here and there burst in to sight, out from a
forest glade beside some chateau, some gaily-clad
hunting party, the last of the season ; ever
and anon there was some little town, with its
old ruined castle, or its monastic church, shut
in, in leafless orchards. The broad river glistened
in the light under the burden of its many
islands, its breaking blocks of ice drifting on
turbid green waters, its flood of mud and melted
snow rolling heavily beneath the colliers and
the merchant craft, which made their way
slowly against the floes. In the drear blackened
vineyards, peasants, like pictures by Millet,
were at work ; sometimes a woman with fao-aots
on her bowed shoulders straightened herself to
watch the swiftness of the train, or a blue-flocked

herd-boy stopped his cattle at a crossing.



All these pictures passed before the eyes of
Yseulte like the panorama of a dream : the
early morning hours had been one long bewilderment
to her ; though she had carried
herself so bravely, her heart had beaten all
the while like a caught bird's : even now the
scent of the incense, the waves of sound from
the organ, the sonorous voice of the great prelate
in its admonitions, seemed to come with
her into the still, brown, fresh country ; the
sense of some infinite and solemn obligation,
accepted and irrevocable, was upon her.

They had left Paris immediately after the
ceremony ; and the evening sun was glowing
in the west and lighting the pastoral country
with its leafless woods and glancing rivers as
they reached the chateau.

Amyot was a place of great beauty and
stateliness ; it had been built for Francois
Premier, and had the salamander and the
crown carved on its stones and blazoned on
its metal work ; it was surrounded by water
like Chenonceaux, and in the sunset-glow its
pinnacles and towers and high steep roof

M 2

gleamed as if made of gold ; it stood on a hill
amidst great woods, overlooking the fruitful
valleys and fertile plains which lie between the
Loire and Cher, and in its gardens all the art
that modern horticulture can boast was united
to the stately avenues, the close-shorn turf, the
long grey stone terraces with the motto of the
Yalois and the fleur-de-lis of France carved upon
their pilasters, which had in their day seen
the mignons of Henri II., and felt the feet of
Diane de Poitiers and of Mary Stuart.

Amyot was a poem, epic and epopee
in one ; she had never seen it before ; she
gazed at it with entranced eyes, glad that her
home would be in such a place ; then she
looked timidly at Othmar.

He was not looking at her.

She sighed, hardly knowing why, but with
a vague sense of neglect and disappointment.
She was in a trance of mingled joy and dread.
She saw the dusky avenue of yews through
which they passed, the long lines of majestic
terraces, the sheets of glancing water, the
masses of camellias and azaleas, brought from
the hothouses to make the wintry gardens
bloom for that momentous hour, the vast fantastic

solemn pile towering up against the
evening skies. She saw them all as in a dream ;
she was wondering wistfully in her ignorance,
whether it were possible that she had offended
him, or possible that already he regretted what
he had done. She shrank a little from trim,
and sat quite silent as their carriage rolled
under the great stone gateway.

There had been enough in his caresses, in
his words, as they had come thither, to startle
her innocent ignorance into some sense of the
meaning and the demands of love, but they had
left her dimly alarmed and troubled, as before
some great mystery, and he had soon grown
abstracted, almost indifferent, and had abandoned
himself to his own thoughts.

Amyot even in its winter silence and
sombreness, was a place where lovers could
well forget the world ; yews and bay trees made
perpetual verdure around its lawns, and orangeries
and palm-houses made ceaseless summer
within its walls ; in its halls and galleries old
tapestries and Eastern hangings muffled every
sound and excluded every draught ; and in the
warm air of its chambers, ceiled with cedarwood,
embossed with the salamander, and the

F.' in solid gold, and having embayed windows,
all looking straightway south over the Loire
water, the winter's landscape, seen through
its painted casements, was but as a decorative
scene set there for the strong charm of contrast.

They passed through the ranks of the
bowing servants, and remained at last alone in
the great suite of drawing-rooms, whose oriel
windows all looked southward. They were
rooms hung with pale satins, still ceiled with
cedar, and keeping the Valois crown and arms
upon their gilded carvings and lofty archways.
They preserved the style and charm of the age
which had begotten them. She was in harmony
with them as she moved there, the dull red light
which preceded evening foiling through the
painted panes on the dove-hued velvet and
dusky furs of her travelling-gown, and touching
the light sold of her fair hair coiled in a o-reat
knot above her throat.

He, when his servants had retired, kissed
her hand with a ceremony which seemed, even
to her innocence, very cold.

1 You are at home,' he said gently. ' Here
it will be for you to command, for all to obey.'

She stood before him in one of the embrasures

of the windows ; the cream-hued
velvet of her travelling-dress trimmed with
sable, caught the rays of the setting sun.

'You are chatelaine of Amyot,' he added,
with a smile. ' Here I shall be but the first
of your servants.'

The words were gracious, and even tender,
but they touched her with a sense of dullness
; she felt, without knowing why she felt
it, that it was not with this courteous ceremony
that he would have welcomed her if he
had loved her  much.

She said nothing, though she coloured a
little as he kissed her hands.

She moved to one of the great windows
and looked out a little wistfully towards the
rolling waters, the deep, dark brown forests
with their purple shadows. The dim afternoon
light spread over the landscape without, and
through the gorgeous and majestic chambers,
which had once heard the love words of
the Valois. She had laid her hat down on a
table near, the lingering glow of the dying
day fell on her white throat, on her cheek
with its changing colour, on the knot of orange
blossom fastened amongst the lace at her breast ;

she thrilled through all her nerves as she
suddenly realised that she was altogether his,
to be used as he chose, never to be apart from
him unless by his wish.

She gazed at the scene around her, troubled,
perplexed, wistfully, vaguely alarmed, afraid
she knew not of what ; whilst he watched her
with a certain futile anger against himself that
her loveliness did not excite him and content
him more, a remorseful sense that he was not
the lover she merited and should have won.

A sort of self-reproach moved him as he
looked at her in her innocence, which seemed
too holy a thing to be profaned by the grossness
of sensual approach  on the morrow she
would not look at him with those serene, childlike
eyes.

It seemed to him almost cruel to rouse that
perfect innocence from its unsuspicious repose.

Before he could speak again she had turned
towards him ; her lips trembled a little as she
gathered her courage and said aloud what had
been in her thoughts all the day through.

It will be for me to obey,' she murmured,
with the colour deepening in her cheeks. \ And
I will do it always, so gladly : but would you

tell me one thing : did you  I mean  if you
had not cared for me a little, surely you would
never have wished ? '

She paused, overcome by the sense of her
own hardihood, and her eyes filled with tears ;
she longed to say to him, ' Instead of all your
jewels, instead of all this luxury, give me one
fond word,' but her timidity and her modesty
would not let her lips frame the supplication.
He was still as a stranger to her  a man whom
she had seen scarce a dozen times.

The question in its timid commencement had
said enough : his conscience shrank from it ;
he had always dreaded the moment inevitable
of the fatal 

If this be love, tell nie how much.'

Would you tell me ? ' she repeated very
low, then paused with an overwhelming sense
of her own hardihood and great immodesty.

She made a beautiful picture as she stood
before him ; the cream-hued satin falling about
her, the warm cedar-wood panels behind her,
the red light of the sunset shed like a glory
upon her head and shining about her feet.

'Who would not love you, dear?' he

murmured, with a hesitation of which her own
confusion spared her from being conscious.
Never doubt my affection. I have not been
as happy as the world thinks me, but if I
be not happy beside you, fate will indeed find
me thankless.'

Nor was it altogether untrue ; she looked
infinitely lovely to him in that moment, with
the tears shining in her upraised eyes, and the
blue veins of her throat swelling where the
orange flowers touched them ; and all this was
his  his as wholly as the budding primrose in
the woods is the child's that finds it and may
pluck and rifle it at will.

An emotion that was more nearly passion
than he had hitherto felt for her moved him
as he looked on her.

With a sudden impulse of the joy and
mastery of possession, warmer and more eager
than any she had roused in him before, he
took her in his arms and kissed her throat
where the orange flowers were fastened, and,
with a tender touch, unloosed them.

CHAPTER XXIV.

c Othmar silent le parfait amour while he
gathers wet violets under his Valois woods, is a
truly admirable idol !' said the Princess JSTa-
praise, with her unkind little smile, a month
later, while her eyes, from under an umbrella
covered with old point duchesse, went indolently
from the shining sea upon her right
to the romantic gorge leading up to distant
peaks of snow, which could be seen on
her left through boughs of eucalyptus and
mimosa. She was seated on the white
terraces of a famous villa, crowning a promontory
which carried luxuriant and fantastic
gardens far out into the lazy blue water, across
whose then smiling plains of azure light it
looked straight southward to the cloud which
was Corsica. It was the villa of another Russian
magnate, Prince Ezarhedine, w T with whom
there was at that time staying a mighty statesman
at whose nod or frown Europe breathed

lightly or held her breath ; and under the guise
of a breakfast there was an informal conference
of diplomatists at his house that day.

Friederich Othmar was staying at S- Paramount
for two days to meet the great Eussian,
and conduct, over a cigarette and a glass of
kiimmel, one of those delicate and intricate
negotiations in which finance and diplomacy
had equal parts, and which were the delight of
his soul, and made the special fame of the
House of Othmar.

The great statesman was a charming person,
Oriental in morals, Athenian in mind, and
French in manners ; and Nadine Napraxine,
who so seldom could be persuaded to go anywhere,
had deigned to come and breakfast
with him there and allow him to recall her
childhood.

You would never give me a smile,' he said
to her. ' At five years old you were as cruel
as you are now. I remember taking you what
I thought an irresistible bribe ; a gardener in
Saxe driving a wheelbarrow of bonbons.
But you just looked at it  smileless  and said
cruelly, " Merci, Monsieur  mats fen ai tant! "
You were five years old then.'

c ct

Tant ' and " trop " are the spoilers of our
existence,' she replied. c I remember as a child
I never cared for bonbons ; I used to say that
if they hung up where the church bells were,
and one could not get them, one would
care '

My intention was good,' said the great
man piteously ; ' you might have smiled on me
for that.'

 That would have been very commonplace,
everybody is amiable in that kind of way ; I
am not amiable, they say, and yet I am never
out of temper  which seems to me the first requisite
for amiability.'

Serenity is unkind when it means indifference.'


4 But indifference is so comfortable to the
indifferent ! ' she had replied, and the reply
admitted of no refutation.

Now, when the dejeuner, which had been
the pretext and cover of the morning's informal
but pregnant discussion, was over, and she was
about to go to her carriage, she had smiled
with gentle condescension on the Baron, and
asked him the tidings of Amyot. Friederich
Othmar, in his answers, had been incautiously

and unusually enthusiastic in the hearing of
a person who to all enthusiasm was merciless ;
the more merciless, because in a far-down and
never-investigated corner of her own nature she
was a little conscious that she also could have
been enthusiastic  if it had been worth while.

She had laughed a little unkindly, and had
made the remark about the wet violets ; the
Baron, slightly irritated and considerably in
earnest, had replied, that to gather violets with
your own wife was less exciting, but perhaps
sweeter, and certainly wiser, than to purchase
orchids for the wife of someone else.

A most moral opinion, turned with classic
elegance, and quite indisputable,' said Madame
Napraxine, with much amusement. 'And
orchids are so short-lived ! Do you think home-grown
violets live longer? Dear Baron, I am
so glad to see you so pleased, and so poetical ;
Napoleon's desire for an heir made him quite
brutal ; your desire for your nephew's heir
makes you quite full of pretty sentiment. Pray
go on, you interest me ! it is as if one heard
Bismarck playing a guitar ! '

'Like Napoleon, I dislike les amours
stinks, replied Friederich Othmar, with a

smile. ' My nephew was in danger of letting
his life drift away in a dream ; I know no
means of recalling a man to the practical
happiness of existence so efficacious as a young
girl's beauty.'

You are very primitive in your ideas, dear
Baron, for a person who has lived all his life
in Paris,' said the Princess Nadine, with her
little air of fatigue and of irony. She knew
very well what had been implied in his words,
and she resented them.

Nature is primitive, Madame,' said the
Baron. ' But after all, we do not improve on
her, nor exclude her, do what we may.'

You think not ? ' said Madame Napraxine,
much amused. ' Well, for my part, I have
never been able to discover that Nature is very
charming : if we attended to her, she would
make us eat with our fingers, fight with our
teeth, drink only water, and wear no clothes ;
she would certainly, also, give Otho Othmar a
score of wives instead of one Sainte Mousseline.
Do not take to admiring Nature, Baron ; she
will lead you astray. It is too late for you to
begin ; no one after twenty can eat green fruit
with impunity.'

Sainte Mousseline ! ' echoed the old man,
with more temper than prudence. ' Surely that
epithet would not apply to Yseulte ! '

Of course not now,' said Nadine, serenely.
Sainte Mousseline has given way to the nuptial
white satin. Only you spoke of Nature ; 
and if I were you I would not wish for Nature
to prevail too much at Amyot, for Nature hasa
sad trick of being soon satisfied, and dissatisfied,
and disposed to change. You know
it is only the poets who invented Constancy, at
the same time that they created the Phoenix and
the Hippogriff.'

1 If I thought he could be unfaithful to so

much youth and so much innocence ,' began

the Baron, with some heat.

8 He will not be so yet, at all events,' said
Prince Ezarhedine. ' Men are not quite so
fickle as Madame Nadine thinks.'

'Men are what women make them,' she
replied, with her most contemptuous tranquillity.
As a rule, they are always faithless to women
who love them. It is tiresome to be loved;
ca vous donne les nerfs" You get out of
temper and you go away ; then silly people
say you are inconstant.'

You will admit that at least it seems very
like it,' said Baron Fritz.

The great statesman, standing near, looked
a little wistfully at her. He thought that he
would not have found it tiresome to be loved
by the wife of Napraxine.

The Countess Othmar will be too young
to understand all that,' continued Nadine.
1 She will give too much of herself. She will
not have the first essential : savoir se reprendre.
Love is like all other fine arts  it should be
treated scientifically. Do you remember Series
Versatile? He was devoted to the Princess
Platoffff  my cousin Sophie. All at once he
broke with her. Some one asked him why he
did so. He answered honestly : " Un jour, elle
faisait la faute de me prier de rester quand je
valais men aller." Serge Versatile put the
whole of male human nature into that sentence.
Othmar's wife will be always begging him to
stay when he will want to go ; she is so young.
She is, of course, in love with him ; very much
in love with him ; and she is so unhappily inexperienced
that she will be sure to tell him so
a hundred times a day. Now, however pretty
a story is, still when you hear it very often it

VOL. II. N

grows dull : you see she is beginning with an
immense mistake : Amyot in the winter ! '

8 Amyot is his choice as much as hers,' said
Friederich Othmar.  You know he always
liked solitude. They will be in Paris in the
first days of April '

4 Two months, or to speak precisely, seven
weeks, of Amyot in midwinter is precisely the
mistake that a very young girl would be sure
to make,' continued his tormentor. ' Amoris
a delightful place in its way ; it is like a
page of Ransome. I remember the admirable
hunting parties he gave there for the Orleans
princes. But all the same, seven whole weeks
of Amyot in the rain of February and March
would damp any ardour that he might begin
with  do you think he began with very much ?
What a pity there was no one to tell her that a
man is bored so soon ! And Othmar is like
Chateaubriand ; he is the grand ennuye just
because his ideals are so high that it is wholly
impossible to find anything like them anywhere.
I am quite sure that he has imagined in this
poor child an angel and a goddess ; a kind of
Greek nymph and Christian virgin blent in one.
When he finds that she is only a child, who has

had the narrowest of all educations, and is not
even a woman in her comprehension or her
sympathies, he will be intolerably wearied. If
they were in the world, the disillusion might
be postponed ; at Amyot it must come in
two days,'

You are very clever, Madame,' said the
Baron with some irritation, ' but even you may
perhaps for once be mistaken. She is very
young, as you say ; but for that very reason
she will be like clay in his hands which he can
mould as he will.'

If he take the trouble to model it at all,'
said Nadine Napraxine. ' If the sculptor do
not touch the clay, it lies in a lump neglected
till somebody else comes. She will not know,
I fear, how to tempt him to make anything of
her. Do you suppose they have taught her the
art of provocation in her Breton convent ? She
will only sob aloud if he go away for an hour,
and be plunged into despair if his kisses be one
less in number. My dear Baron, you lost all
your wisdom when you failed to persuade
them to leave Amyot. They say there is no
living woman who can be seen at sunrise after
a ball and keep her lover ; I am sure there is

not one who can be shut up with a man for
two months in the country, in winter, and
retain his belief in her.'

1 You are very learned in these matters,'
said the Baron, more and more irritated, ' and
yet everyone knows that the Princess Napraxine
has always herself despised all human affections
! '

It is not necessary to have sat in the midst
of a maelstrom to have studied the laws of
whirlpools,' said his tormentor. ' And what
have human affections to do with it? You
know as well as I do that humanity has only
caprices and passions, with their natural issue,
disillusions.'

Friederich Othmar thought of the terrace at
Amyot and the face of Yseulte.

Walking with her a moment, alone, in the
afternoon sunshine, he had ventured on a word
of counsel.

4 My dear child, you are very young. Let
an old man tell you something. Otho has one
serious malady ; nay, do not look so alarmed,
it is only the malady of his generation  caprice
and ennui. He has not an idea that he is
capricious, but lie is so. Do not let his caprices

pain you ; but, as far as you can, vary with his
varying moods; I think that is the secret of
sympathy. Just now it is high noon with you ;
so there are no shadows ; but shadows will fall.
I want you to understand that. Otho is not
perfect ; in a way, he is very weak, though he
has more intellect than most men. Do not
make a god of him. You will only spoil him
and blind yourself.'

And then she had looked at him with that
look which he recalled now as he sat by Nadine
Napraxine, and had said with a dignity of reproach
which had sat very prettily on her
youthfulness : \ If he have faults, I shall never
see them  you may be sure of that ; and if you
will tell me how to please him, I will never
think of myself.'

Remembering this, the Baron, who had
never in his life cared greatly for any woman or
believed much in one, felt a restless anger
against the prophetess of woe.

When they predict fire they have already
laid the powder he thought, impatiently.

Friederich Othmar was surprised himself at
the feeling of affection and of anxiety which
Yseulte had aroused in him. He had wished

Othmar to marry that the race might be continued,
but he had never supposed that any-young
girl would fill him with the solicitude
for her own welfare which she made him feel
for hers.

Women had always been la femelle che
Homme with him ; no more ; he was astonished
at himself for being moved by a genuine
desire to secure for her those more subtle joys of
the soul which he had always derided. Before
her he felt ashamed of his own grosser convictions
(which a month before would have
been so confident) that she could want nothing
more than the riches her marriage conferred on
her. Though he had been a man of little feeling
he was not altogether without kindliness,
and his keen penetration told him that hers
was a nature which the glories and gewgaws
of the world would do very little to console if
its affections were starved or its higher instincts
humiliated, and the prophecies of JSTadine Na-praise
but irritated him more because he
knew that her merciless intelligence was as a
seismographic pendulum which foretold truly
the convulsions of the future.

6 Surely,' she continued, ' S. Pharamond

would have been a more natural place to select
at this season. Amyot is superb, but it must
be sunk fathoms deep in snow.'

There is no snow ; it was open weather,
and even mild,' replied the Baron, who was
ready to declare that roses were blossoming in
the ditches of the Orleannais.

'But why did he not come to S. Paramount
? It is a paradise of azaleas and tulips
at the present moment.'

It is a pretty place,' he answered ; ' but perhaps
more suggestive of Abates and Pilots
than of the true Eros.'

4 The vicinity of the tripods hardly accords
with the solemnity of Hymen ? Do you mean
that ? ' she said, with her enigmatical little
smile. 4 Who would ever have thought to
live to hear Baron Friedrich mention Eros !
Well, we will hope that the god for once will
be like the Salamander which is emblazoned,
and carved so liberally, all over Amyot. We
will hope the fire that feeds him may not go
out ; but I am afraid the motto really means
that what nourishes extinguishes.'

With that she rose and took herself and her
sunshade, with its point duchesse, and her marvellous

gown with its cascades of lace and soft
pale hues, like tea roses, her provocative languor,
and her admirable grace, from the
terraces of the Prince Ezarhecline. She was
followed by longing eyes and a silence which
was the truest of compliments. To more than
one there, the sun had set whenever she had
passed from their sight.

1 What makes the world of men so fanatic
about that woman ? ' asked Friederich Othmar,
exhaling all the unspoken grievances of his own
soul in a rude grumble, as the sound of the
whirling wheels of her carriage died away.
Why ? Why ? There are numbers more
beautiful ; few, perhaps, with so perfect a form,
yet there are some who equal her even in that.
She is as cruel as death, as cold as frost; no
one ever saw a flush on her cheek or a tear in
her eyes, and when she smiles it is like the
sirocco and the north wind blent together ; and
yet there is no woman so blindly loved.'

8 Yet ! ' echoed Prince Ezarhedine. ' Surely,
you should say " therefore." The sirocco and
the north wind blent together are electric
shocks to the most sated senses.'

Yes,' added the great statesman who was

his guest, ' and if it will not sound too pedantic,
I will add also why it is. She is to her lovers
very much what the worship of Isis became to
the Latins. She blends an infinite subtlety of
sentiment with an infinite potentiality of sensual
delight.'

Sensual ! She is as cold as snow '

I know ; she has that sobriquet. But
every one feels what a paradise would lie
within if the snow were melted. Everyone
hopes  more or less conscious or unconscious
of his hope  to pass that frosty barrier.
I think if Madame Napraxine ever loved any
man, she would make such a heaven for him
that he would be the most enviable of all
human beings. But it would only last a month ;
perhaps six weeks.  Although,' he added, with
a faint sigh, ' it would be worth losing all the
rest of life to be the companion of those six
weeks.'

If I may differ with you, Prince, I would
say that, on the contrary, if ever Madame
Nadine can be touched to love she will be
most tenacious and most constant,' said Ezarhe-
dine.

'Perhaps too much so for the felicity of

the person whom she might honour,' added the
Baron with a smile that was a little impertinent.
He had always disliked and dreaded her ; she
had wasted two years of his nephew's life, and
he shrewdly suspected that she was the cause of
Othmar's too slight ardour towards his young
wife.

Meanwhile, the subject of their meditations
and desires was borne by her fleet horses over
the sea-road homeward to La Jacquemerille.
She felt astonished, irritated, offended at the
idol of Amyot. To have loved herself, and
then to be content shut up within the stonewalls
of a country-house with a girl taken from
a convent !

8 He is ]ike Gilles de Metz,' she thought,
with bitter disdain. ' He takes the white flesh
of a child to try and cure his malady.'

It seemed to her cowardly, sensual, contemptible.


She drove homeward through the olives
and the lemon-yards and the green fields
that were full of anemones and narcissus and
of the bright gold and sea-shell hues of the
crocus. The grey towers of S. Pharamond
were on her left as she went, and beyond them

the fantastic pinnacles and gilded crockets of
Milloo. She looked at them with an anger
foreign to her character.

6 Who could have dreamed he would have
done so absurd a thing? ' she thought, irritated
against him and against herself. Never before
in her life had the actions of any other person
had the slightest effect upon her own feelings.
She had not lived very long, it is true, but
to herself she seemed to have an illimitable
experience ; and within her memory there was
no record of any time in which she had cared
one straw what another did. That she should
care now, ever so slightly, irritated her pride
and wounded her delicacy. She was a woman
at all times truthful with herself, however it
might be her amusement to mislead others.
She was quite as cruel to herself as to anyone
else in her unrelenting and inquisitive mental
dissection. She pursued her self-analysis with
a mercilessness which, had she been less witty
and less worldly, might have been morbid ; and
she did not disguise from herself now that the
tidings of Amyot were an irritation if not a pain
to her. She did full justice to the loveliness
with which Othmar had sought to find oblivion

of her own ; and she knew that it might very-well
be that, as the Baron had said, he had
become the girl's lover as well as her husband.

Men are such poor creatures,' she thought
with scorn. ' They are all the slaves of their
senses ; they have no character ; they are only
animals. They talk of their souls, but they
have got none ; and of their constancy, but
they are only constant to their own self-indulgence.'


The contempt of a woman, in whom the
senses have never awakened, and for whom all
the grosser appetites have no attraction, for
those easy consolations which men can find in
the mere gratification of those appetites, is very
real and very unforgiving.

Her scorn for Othmar, seeking forgetfulness
of herself in the fresh and budding life of a
child of sixteen, was equal to that which she
felt for Napraxine finding solace for her own
indifference in the purchasable charms of the
belles petites ; the one seemed as trivial to her
as the other. When men spoke of their
devotion, they only meant their own passions ;
if these were denied, they sought refuge in mere
physical pleasures, which at all events partially

consoled them'. She thought of him with increasing
intolerance. She answered only by
monosyllables to the remarks of her companions,
and her mind wandered away to that stately
place where life might well seem a love-lay of
the Renaissance.

'He will soon be tired,' she mused, with
cruel wisdom. ' In a week the child will have
become a romance read through ; a peach with
its bloom rubbed off; a poor little bird which
has only one note, and has sung that one till
its master is ready to wring its throat. It is
always so. I never see a baby run through
the fields gathering daisies and throwing them
down but what I think of men with their loves.
The only passion that lasts with them is one
which is denied, and even that is a poor affair.
To be sure, sometimes they kill themselves, but
that is rather out of rage than out of any higher
despair. And for one who kills himself for us
there are a hundred who kill themselves for
their debts. Othmar never can have any debts,
so he invents woes for himself, and captivity
for himself, and he will die of neither.'

Yet, contemptuous of him for what seemed
to her his weakness and his unreason as she

was, her thoughts attached themselves persistently
to him. He was the only living being
who had never wearied her. who had always
perforce interested her, who had seemed to
her unlike the rest of the world, and capable
of a master-passion, which might have risen
beyond mediocrity. How would it have been
with them if he had stood in the stead of Xa-
praise, whilst she was vaguely open to dim
and noble ideals, to spiritual emotions, to human
affections ?

Pooh ! ' she thought. ' It would have
been just the same thing. Love is gross and
absurd in its intimacies ; it is like the hero to
his valet. Maternity is first a malady, and then
an ennui ; that biche blanche at Amyot will
learn that as I learned it. He would have
been much more poetic than Plato, and much
more agreeable ; but I dare say he would have
been much more exacting, and much more
jealous.'

Yet the remembrance of Amyot pursued her,
and made her restless ; with her lips she had
ridiculed the idea of nuptial joys enshrouded
in the wet woods and falling mists of the
Orleannais ; but in her heart she did not laugh ;

almost  almost  she envied that child, with
the innocent, serious eyes, whom she called contemptuously
la biche blanche, who was learning
the language of love in the earliest dawn of
womanhood.

Only he does not love her ! ' she reflected,
with pity, disdain, and satisfaction, all commingled.
No ! He loved herself. She believed
in few things, and in few emotions ; but
she believed that so long as Othmar lived he
would love her alone.

Quand on tient la dragee haute ! ' she
thought, with her unkindness smile at the
fractiousness and ingratitude of men, as she
descended at the doors of La Jacquemerille,
and with displeasure heard her servants say,
1 M. le Comte Seliedoff awaits Madame la
Princesse.'

CHAPTER XXV.

Boris Fedorovich Seliedoff was a young
cousin of Napraxine's ; he was twenty-two years
old, tall and well made, with a beautiful face
on his broad shoulders, a face given him by a
Georgian mother. He had been an imperial
page, and was now a lieutenant in the Imperial
Guard. He was an only son, and his father
was dead ; he had a great position, and was
much indulged by all his world, and was as
headstrong and as affectionate as a child.
Nadine JSTapraxine alone did not indulge him,
and he adored her with all the blind ecstasies
of a first love ; he had obtained his leave of
absence only that he might follow her southward.
He was extremely timid in his devotion,
but he was impassioned also ; the moral
question of his love for his cousin's wife weighed
no more with him than it weighed with Othmar.
His world was not given to consideration of
such scruples. As far as she could be entertained

by such stale things, she was amused by
the worship of this boy. In Eussia he had
done the maddest follies at her whim and
word ; once he had come from Petersburg to
the Krimea only to be able to dance one valse
with her at a ball at her villa on the Black
Sea ; he had ridden his horse up the staircase
of her house in Petersburg, and taken an incredible
leap over a river in Orel, because she
wished for a stalk of foxglove growing on the
other bank ; he had risked life and limb, position
and honour, again and again, to attract
her attention or to go where she was, and she
had smiled on him the more kindly the more
headstrong were his acts and the more perilous
his follies.

Once Napraxine had dared to say to her :
c Could you not spare Boris ? He is only
a lad, and his mother trusts to me to keep him
out of harm.'

She had answered in her chilliest tones :
1 Pray keep him so. I do not think, however,
that you give him the best of examples.
Your clubs, your play, your various distractions,
are not all of them virtuous ? '

And he had been dumb, afraid to offend
vol. 11.

her more, though, he was vaguely uneasy or
his young cousin. The lad was terribly in
earnest, and she only saw in him a young lion-whelp
whose juvenile ardours and furies were
half grotesque, half amusing. Xapraxine knew
that if the lion whelp went too far, or if she
tired of his rage and fret, she would strike him
with a whip like any other cur. But he dared
not remonstrate more ; and Boris Seliedoff, on
a brief term of leave, had followed them to the
sea-shores of the south-west, and was fretting
his soul in futile rage before the indifference
of his idol and the presence of her other lovers.
It would have been very easy at the onset to
have checked the growth of this boyish passion,
but she had diverted herself with it, permitted
its exaggerations, smiled at its escapades,
fanned its fires as she so well knew how to do,
and it had sprung to a giant growth in giant
strength. This clay, when she drove homeward
from the breakfast at Ezarhedine's, he
was waiting for her at La Jacquemerille. For
anyone to wait for her was a thing she detested
; it was a disobedience to all those unspoken
laws which she required her courtiers
implicitly to obey. She expected everyone, of

whichever sex, of whatever rank, in however
high a degree of favour, to be the humble
suer of her commands, the meek attendant
of her pleasure. To be waited for without
her desires being previously ascertained, made
her instantly in a chill and irritable mood ; it
was a presumption. This morning she was
especially ready to be irritated. When she
saw the tall figure of the young soldier pacing
to and fro, with feverish steps, the marble
'perron of her villa, she grew suddenly and disproportionately
angry.

1 The boy becomes audacious,  intolerable,
impertinent,' she thought. 'I should have
taken him to Ezarhedine's if I had wanted him.
He has had too much sugar, he needs the whip.'

All that was most cruel, most intolerant,
most tyrannical in her, came with a cold hard
look upon her delicate features ; the temper of
those of her people who had thrust their swords
into the body of Paul began to awake in her.
She was in the humour to hurt something, the
first thing she saw ; her eyes were full of scorn
and of command as they looked haughtily at
Seliedoff, and arrested him by a glance as he
sprang towards her.



i Who told you that I sent for you ? ' she
said, with that chill contemptuous gaze which
froze the boy and magnetised him in the same
moment.

8 No one,' he said piteously ; ' I thought, 
I imagined '

You imagined you were always welcome ! '
she replied. ' A very erroneous imagination.
You may be so to Prince Napraxine, you are
his cousin ; but as the house is mine, I shall
prefer that you shall await my invitation.'

She spoke slightingly, and with a coldness
like the New Year ice of Eussia.

Boris SeliedoiT stood and gazed at her helplessly,
fascinated by the anger of the gaze
which swept over him in such supreme contempt.
He had before offended, before had
seen what her caprices and her unkindness
could become when she was displeased ; but
all those previous moments had been as
summer showers compared with this glacial
censure which froze all his hot young blood.
So often she had been content to see him ; so
often she had laughed at him with indulgence
and benignity ; so often she had called him
1 beau cousin,' ' cher enfant,' and smiled at his

haste and eagerness when he had done much
more than this. Might not any stranger
have waited to see her pass, to hear her
speak ?

Nadine Napraxine, with that one comprehensive
disdainful glance, passed across the
marble floor, and entered through the open
glass doors of the house. She said nothing
more. The young Seliedoff, who had grown
first very red, then very pale, followed her
timidly like a chidden hound, and paused upon
the threshold, hesitating ; he scarcely ventured
to enter also without some sign from her. But
she gave him none. She passed on through the
salons, and ascended the low broad staircase
without bestowing on him a single glance.
Then he knew that she was gone to her own
apartments, where no man living dared follow
her. Boris Seliedoff stole into a little salon
humbly, and threw himself down on the first
seat he saw. He covered his face with his
hands ; there were tears in his eyes, which fell
slowly through his clasped fingers.

He was a young dare-devil who had eaten
fire and played with death, and had hewed
down men and women and children without

mercy by Skobeleff's side ; but he was a mere
frightened, timid, wretched lad beneath the
lash of her displeasure. He would have crawled
for her pardon like her spaniel, even whilst he
groped about in bewilderment and darkness to
discover his own offence, and could not tell
what it had been. An older man would have
told him that it had only been the supreme
fault of arriving at the wrong moment.

How long he sat there he never knew ; he
waited in the vague hope of a gentler word, a
more kind dismissal, at least for permission
to return. He did not remember that he
would only increase his offence, prolong his
error. The bright day was shining without on
all the gay array of shining marbles, many-coloured
azaleas, dancing waves, white sails,
blue skies ; within, the shaded light fell subdued
and roseate on the porcelains, the tapestries,
the bronzes, the stands and bowls of
flowers, all the fantastic details of modern
luxury. He might have been in a peasant's
ista in the midst of a frozen plain for aught he
knew. Two or three clocks chimed five, and
the carillon in the stable-tower of La Jacque-neville
answered them ; for anything he could

tell, lie might have been there a whole day or
only fifteen minutes.

Whilst it was still quite daylight, servants
came in and brought lamps with rose-coloured
shades and set them down noiselessly and
went away. Seliedoff raised his head, but he
did not leave his place ; he sat like a figure of
stone. He heard a sound of voices and of
laughter ; through the parted curtains of the
porters he saw the vista of the three drawing-rooms
which opened out of the small one in
which he was. People were coming in and
standing about conversing with one another in
the rose-hued light of the lamps, lit whilst the
sun was still shining. He then remembered
that it was Thursday, her day, on which, from
five to seven, the dessus du panier could come
there and idle and flirt and sip caravan tea, or
syrups or liqueurs, and have the honour of a
word from her, perhaps even of a word of
welcome. As he looked and remembered, she
herself entered the little room in which he sat,
and which was the nearest to her own apartments.
She cast a glance upon him, severe,
astonished, then passed through to the larger
salons. She wore a pale-mauve-coloured velvet

gown, with a jabot of old point lace, and the
same lace peeping here and there from the
folds of its skirts ; she had some natural yellow
roses at her throat ; she had her hair a V empire ;
she had never looked lovelier, colder, more
utterly beyond the imitation of other women
or the solicitations of men. He watched her
receive the little crowd of people already there,
and those who came after them ; he heard her
sweet chill voice, now and then her laugh ; he
saw all the men whom he hated gathered
about her ; and the murmur of the voices, the
whispers of the discreet mirth, the scent of the
flower-laden air, the rosy gleams of the lamplight,
the frou-frou of the dresses, the tinkle of
the tea-cups, came to his ear as the sounds of
the outer world come to a sick man in fever.

Geraldine was not there. She had always
prohibited his appearance more than once a
month at her jour.

I will have no one seen in my rooms as
regularly and certainly as Paul,' she had always
said to him. Paul was her groom of the
chambers. ' Whenever any man is seen perpetually
anywhere, as immovably as though he
were a clock or a bracket, he becomes ridiculous

; and the woman who allows him to be
there, still more so.'

Geraldine had been forced to obey, with
whatever reluctance ; usually he had consoled
himself, as well as he could, with the tripod.
A man is not often jealous of a day in which
he knows there exists for him, in his absence,
that safety which lies in numbers.

Boris Seliedoff sat on where he was with
dogged persistence, his eyes riveted on those
pretty salons in which the comedy of society
was being acted, and where he perceived nothing
save that one form, when it came
within his sight, with the grace of movement,
the charm of attitude, which were especial
to Nadine Napraxine. He thought the
coining and going of her many guests would
never end ; that the buzz of the many voices
would never cease. Once or twice men
and women whom he knew came into the
little room, and sat down there for a few
moments ; then he was forced to rise and
speak to them, to say he knew not what. But
he took his seat again immediately, and resumed
his silent vigil. Some of them looked
at him in surprise, for his expression was

strange, and his black Georgian eyes were
misty yet fierce ; but he was not conscious of
the notice he excited, he was only conscious
that she never glanced towards horn, never
summoned him, once.

The two hours seemed to him endless.
When seven had struck, the last carriage rolled
away from before the windows, the last lingering
visitor, the Due de Prangins  he who had
killed young dTvrea  made his profound bow
over her hand, and took himself and his elegant
witticisms and his admirable manners back to
the Hotel de Paris at Monte Carlo. When the
doors had closed on him, Nadine Napraxine
stood a moment alone in the centre of her
salon ; then swiftly turned, and came towards
SeliedofT. He rose, and awaited her sullenly.

Her right hand was clenched as though it
grasped the handle of a knout, and was about
to use it ; a terrible anger shone from the
lustre of her eyes ; her lips were pale with the
force of her displeasure.

How dare you ! how dare you ! ' she said
between her teeth.

So might an empress have spoken to a
moujik.

To have waited unbidden in her room,
seen by all the world, sulking there as though
he were a lover once favoured, now dispossessed
; making of himself a spectacle, a ridicule,
a theme for the comment and chatter of
society  it seemed to her such intolerable presumption,
such infinite insolence, that she
could have struck him with her clenched hand
if her dignity had not forbade her. For all
her world to see this love sick boy half-hidden
in an inner room, as though by her welcome
and authority ! She, who had dismissed kings
as others dismiss lackeys when she had found
them too presuming, could find no chastisement
vast enough for such a sin against her
authority and her repute.

Seliedoff was but a spoilt child ; he had
had his own will and way unchecked all his
short life, and all his companions and servants
had existed only for his pleasure. A foolish
and doting mother had never bridled his wishes
or tamed his passions. Before Nadine Na-praise
alone had the arrogant young noble
become submissive, suppliant, and humble.
Now, in his torture and his sense of wrong,
the natural self-will and fury of a spoilt child

crossed, of an adoring youth checked and repudiated,
broke away from the bonds of fear
in which she had always held them. He
answered her with a torrent of words, unconsidered
and unwise, beyond all pardon.

You have treated me like a dog ! ' he said
in conclusion, his voice choked in his throat,
the veins of his forehead injected. ' You have
caressed me, called me, allowed me every
liberty, been pleased with my every folly ; and
now you turn me out of your house as you
would turn the dog if he misbehaved himself.
But I am not a dog, I am a man, and that you
shall know, by God '

He came nearer to her, his eyes red and
covetous, his boyish face inflamed with fiercest
passion, his arms flung out to seize her.

She looked at him, such a look as she
would have given to a madman to control,
and awe him ; he paused, trembled, dared not
draw nearer to her.

She was deeply, implacably offended by
what had passed. For him to permit himself
such language and such actions, seemed to
her as intolerable an insult as if the African
boy in her service had dared to disobey her.

It was the first time that anyone had ever
ventured to insult her ; it irritated all her
delicacy, infuriated all her pride. She never
paused to think what provocation she had
given ; she would have struck him dead with
a glance had she been able.

You are unwell, and delirious,' she said in
her serene, achilles tones. ' You know neither
what you do or say. I have been kind to you,
and you have presumed to misinterpret my
kindness. Your cousin would treat you like
a hound, if he knew. But you are ill, so there
is excuse for you. Go home, and I will send
you my physicians.'

Then she rang ; and when a servant entered
from the antechamber she turned to
him:

4 M. le Comte SeliedofF desires his carriage.'

The boy looked at her with a terrible lookin
his eyes  pitiful, baffled, imploring, delirious.


8 Nadine, Nadine,' he whispered hoarsely,
will you send me away like that  to die ? '

But she had passed, with her slow soft
grace, into the adjoining room. He heard her
say to Melville, who had been asked there :

You are after my hours, Monsignore, but
you are always welcome.'

SelieclofF, with a mist like blood before his
eyes, staggered out of the little salon into the
mild primrose-scented evening air, hearing, as
in a dream, the voices of the servants who told
him that his horses waited.

6 She will never forgive ; she will never
forgive,' he thought, with a sickening sense
that this one moment of insanity had severed
him for ever from the woman he worshipped.
6 She will never forgive ; I shall never enter
her house again ! '

All the lovely scene stretching before him
in its peace and luxuriance, as the stars came
out in the deep blue skies and the daylight
still lingered upon shore and sea, was blotted
out for him by a red haze as of blood and of
tears.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Meanwhile Melville, who had come to take
his leave before proceeding to Paris under
orders from the Vatican, found his hostess
evidently ennuyee ; she was not in her usual
serene humour.

6 What has irritated you, Princess ? ' that
very observant person presumed at last to ask.
1 Have, you actually discovered that doubled
rose-leaf of whose existence you have been
always sure and I always sceptical ? ''

The doubled rose-leaf is that enormous
nuisance, la betide humaine,' she replied with
ennui, breaking off some blossoms of an
odontoglossum standing near her. ' It is like
the fog in London, it penetrates everywhere,
you cannot escape it ; there has been no rose-glass
made which could shut it out. If Balzac
had written for centuries, he would never have
come to an end of it. Do you ever find any

variety in your confessional ? I never do in
my drawing-rooms.'

And yet who should find it, if not Madame
Napraxine ? ' said Melville, who, when in his
worldly moods, did not especially care to be
reminded that he was a churchman.

I do not know who should,  I know that I
never do,' she replied. c I have made la chasse
au character ever since I was old enough to
know what character meant ; and my only
wonder is how, out of such a sameness of
material, St.-Simon and La Bruyere and Ste.-
Veuve, and all those people who write so well,
ever were able to make such entertaining
books. I suppose it is done by the same sort
of science which enables mathematicians to
make endless permutations out of four numbers.
For myself, I should like other numbers
than those we know by rote.'

4 Good heavens ! ' thought Melville, c when
men have died because she laughed ! Is that
so very commonplace? or, is it not tragic
enough ? '

Aloud he said, in his courtliest manner :

1 Princess, I fear the sameness of human
nature tries you so greatly because of the

sameness of the emotions which you excite in
it ; I can imagine that too much adoration
may cloy like too much sugar. Also, in your
chasse au character you have, like all who
hunt, left behind you a certain little bourgeois
quality called pity ; an absurd little quality, no
doubt, still one which helps observation. I
am sure you have read TourgueniefF's little
story of the quail ? '

1 Yes ; but one eats them still, you know,
just the same as if he had never written it.
Pity may be a microscope, I do not know ; besides,
you must admit that a quail is a much
lovelier little life than a man's, and so can
excite it so much more easily. A quail is quite
a charming little bird. Myself, I never eat
birds at all ; it is barbarous.'

What I meant to say was,' suggested
Melville, ' that, in that tiny tale, Tourguenieff,
like a poet, as he was, at heart, describes precisely
what sympathy will do to open the
intelligence to the closed lives of others,
whether bird or man. Perhaps, madame, sympathy
would even do something to smooth the
creases out of your rose-leaf  if you tried it.'

4 I suppose I am not sympathetic,' said

vol. 11. p

Nadine Napraxine, stripping the petals of the
oclontoglossum ; ' they all say so. But I think
it is their own fault ; they are so uninteresting.
1

4 The quail,' said Melville, ' to almost
everybody is only a little juicy morsel to be
wrapped in a vine-leaf and roasted ; but 
had the vision to see in it the courage
of devotion, the heroism of maternity, the loveliness
of its life, the infinite pathos of its death.
Yet, the exceptional estimate of the student's
view of it was quite as true as the general
view of the epicure.'

'Am I an epicure?' said Nadine Na-praise,
amused.

4 Spiritually, intellectually, you are,' replied
Melville ; 4 and so nothing escapes the fastidiousness
of your taste ; yet perhaps, madam e,
something may escape the incompleteness of
your sympathies.'

4 That is very possible ; but, as I observed
to Lady Brancepeth when she made me a
similar reproach, one is as one is made. One
is Tourguenieff or one is Brilliant-Savarin, all
that, is arranged beforehand for one  some



here.'

Melville had learned the ways of the world
too well not to know how to glide easily, with
closed eyes and averted cars, over such irreverence
; but he ventured to say :

One cannot dispute the fact of natural
idiosyncrasy and inclination, of course ; but
may not one's self-culture be as much of the
character as of the mind? Might it not become
as interesting to strive and expand one's
moral as one's intellectual horizon ? It seems
so to me, at the least.'

She laughed, and rang a little silver bell
for Mahmoud to bring them some fresh tea.

c My dear Monsignore,' she said, with
amusement and admiration ; 4 for entrapping
a kernel of religious advice in an envelope
of agreeable social conversation, there is not
your equal anywhere  you may well be beloved
of the Propaganda ! But, alas ! it is all
wasted on me.'

Melville reddened a little with irritation :

I understand, 5 he answered. ' I fear,
Princess, that you are like Virchow or Paul
Bert, who are so absorbed in cutting, burning,
and electrifying the nerves of dogs that the
dog, as a sentient creature, a companion, and a

v 2

friend, is wholly unknown to them. Humanity,
poor Humanity, is your dog.'

Will you have some tea ? ' she said, as
Mahmoud brought in her service made by
goldsmiths of the Deccan, who sat on mats
under their banana trees, with the green
parrots flying over the aloes and the euphorbia,
and who produced work beside which all the
best which Europe can do with her overgrown
workshops is clumsy, inane, and vulgar.

6 What you suggested was very pretty,'
she continued, pouring out the clear golden
stream on the slices of lemon ; c and I had
no right to laugh at you for wrapping up a
sermon in nought. Of course the character
ought to be trained and developed just like the
body and the mind, only nobody thinks so ; no
education is conducted on those lines. And
so, though we overstrain the second, and pamper
the third, we wholly neglect the first. I
imagine that it never occurs to anyone out of
the schoolroom to restrain a bad impulse or
uproot a bad quality. Why should it? Weare
all too busy in trying to be amused, and
failing. Do you not think it was always so in
the world ? Do you suppose La Bruyere, for

instance, ever turned his microscope on himself?
And do you think, if he had done, that
any amount of self-scrutiny would have made
La Bruyere Pascal or Vincent de Paul ? '

No ; but it might have made him comprehend
them, or their likenesses. I did not
mean to moralise, madame ; I merely meant
that the issue of self-analysis is sympathy,
whilst the issue of the anatomy of other organisations
is cruelty even where it may be
wisdom.'

That may be true in general, and I daresay
is so ; but the exception proves the rule,
and I am the exception. Whenever I do think
about myself I only arrive at two conclusions ;
the one, that I am not as well amused as I
ought to be considering the means I have at
my disposal, and the other is that, if I were
quite sure that anything would amuse me very
much, I should sacrifice everything else to
enjoy it. Neither of those results is objective
in its sympathies ; and you would not, I
suppose, call either of them moral.'

1 I certainly should not,' said Melville, ' except
that there is always a certain amount of
moral health in any kind of perfect frankness,'

I am always perfectly frank,' said the
Princess JSTacline ; ' so is Bismarck. But the
world has made up its mind that we are both
of us always feigning.'

That is the world's revenge for being
ruled by each of you.'

4 Is it permitted in these serious clays for
churchmen to make pretty speeches ? I prefer
your scolding, they are more uncommon.'

The kindness which permits them is uncommon,'
said Melville, as he took up his teacup.


Ah ! I can be kind,' said Native Na-praise.
' Ask Mahmoud and my little dog.
But then Mahmoud is dumb, and the dog is  a
dog. If humanity were my dog, too, as you
say, I should make it alone ! '

Poor humanity ! ' said Melville, with a
sigh. ' If it would not offend you, Princess,
there are two lines of Murder which always
seem to me to exactly describe the attitude, or
rather the altitude, from which you regard all
our sorrows and follies.'

And they are ? '

They are those in which he thinks he
hears :

Le fire au son aigu railler le violoncello,
Qui pleure sous larches ses notes de crystal ; "

only we must substitute for aigu some prettier
word, say pearls. '

She laughed, thinking of Boris Belie doff,
with more perception of his absurdities than of
his offences, as her first movement of wrath
subsided into that ironical serenity which was
most natural to her of ' all her varying
moods.

The violoncello does not know itself why
it weeps,' she replied, ' so why should the fife
not laugh at it? Eeally, if I were not so impious
a being, I would join your Church for
the mere pleasure of confessing to you ; you
have such fine penetration, such delicate suggestion.
But then, there is no living being
who understands women as a Catholic priest
does who is also a man of the world. Adieu !
or rather, I hope, au revoir. You are going
away for Lent ? Ours will soon be here. I
shock every Eussian because I pay no heed to
its sanctity. Did you ever find, even amongst
your people, any creatures so superstitious in
their religion as Russians ? Plato is certainly
the least moral man the sun shines on, but he

would not violate a fast nor neglect a rite to
save his life. It is too funny ! Myself, I have
fish from the Baltic and soups (very nasty
ones) from Petersburg, and deem that quite
concession enough to Carne. My dear Monsignore,
why should there be salvation in
salmon and sin in a salmis? '

Melville was not at all willing to enter on
that grave and large question with so incorrigible
a mocker. He took his leave, and
bowed himself out from her presence ; whilst
Nadine Napraxine went to her own rooms to
dress for dinner and look at the domino which
she would wear some hours later at a masked
ball which was to take place that night in her
own house in celebration of the last evening of
the Catholic Carnival.

'Le masque est si charmant que j'ai peur du visage,'

she murmured inconsequently, as she glanced
at the elegant disguise and the Venetian
costume to be worn beneath it which had
been provided for her. ' That is the sort of
feeling which one likes to inspire, and which
one also prefers to feel. Always the mask,
smiling, mysterious, unintelligible, seductive,

suggestive of all kinds of unrealised, and therefore
of exhausted pleasures ; never the face
beneath it, the face which frowns and weeps
and shows everything, is unlovely, only just
because it is known and must in due time even
grow wrinkled and yellow. How agreeable
the world would be if no one ever took off
their masks or their gloves ! '

CHAPTER XXVII.

On the following day as she returned from her
drive, she was met, to her great surprise, by
Napraxine, who descended the steps of the
house with a face unusually pale, and a manner
unusually grave.

What can possibly be the matter, Plato ? '
she said, with a vague sense of alarm, but with
her inevitable mockery of him dominating her
transient anxiety, ' Have you had a culotte
yonder? Has Athens gone away with my
jewel-safe ? Or have our friends the Nihilists
fired Zaraizoff ? '

Napraxine gave her his hand to help her
to alight.

Do not jest,' he said simply. 'Boris has
shot himself.'

Boris ?  Boris Fedorovitch ? '

She spoke in astonishment and anger rather
than sorrow : an impatient frown contracted

her delicate brows, though she grew ashen
pale. Why would men do these things ?

Napraxine was silent, but when they had
entered the house he spoke very sadly, almost
sternly.

 This afternoon he had lost a hundred
thousand francs ; no doubt on purpose to have
an excuse. The ruse can deceive nobody. A
Count Seliedoff could lose as much all day
for a year, and make no sign. He shot himself
in the gardens, within a few yards of us
call'

He paused and looked at his wife. A
shadow passed over her face without changing
its narcissus-like fairness ; she shrugged her
shoulders ever so slightly, her eyes had had fora
moment an expression of awe and regret,
but, beyond any other sentiment with her, were
her impatience and irritation.

8 Why will men be so stupid ? ' she thought.
As if it did any good ! The foolish boy P

'Nadine,' murmured her husband in a
voice that was timid even in its expostulation
and reproach. ' I am sorry for Boris ; for the
other I have never cared, but for Boris ;  you
know that I promised his mother to take what

care I could of him  and now  and now 
and so young as he was !  and how shall I tell
her ? My God !'

She was silent ; a genuine pain was on
her face, though still mingled with the more
personal emotion of impatience and annoyance.


It was no fault of yours !' she said at last,
as she saw two great tears roll down her husband's
cheeks.

1 Yes, it was,' muttered Plato Naprosine.
c I let him know you.'

The direct accusation banished the softer
pain which had for the minute moved her ; she
was at all times intolerant of censure or of
what she resented as a too intimate interference ;
and here her own surprise at an unlooked-for
tragedy, and her own self-consciousness of
having been more or less the cause and
creatures of it, stung her with an unwelcome
and intolerable truth.

1 You are insolent,' she said, with the regard
which always daunted Napraxine, and
made him feel himself an offender against her,
even when he was entirely in the right.

You are insolent,' she repeated. ' Do you

mean to insinuate that I am responsible for
Seliedoff's suicide ? One would suppose you
were a journalist seeking change ! '

The power which she at all times possessed
over her husband making him unwilling to
irritate, afraid to offend her, and without courage
before her slightest sign of anger, rendered

O ODD'

him timid now. He hesitated and grew pale,
but the great sorrow and repentance which were
at work in him gave him more resolution than
usual ; 9 he was very pale, and the tears rolled
down his cheeks unchecked.

Every one knows that Boris loved you,' he
said simply. ' All the world knows that ; he was
a boy, he could not conceal it ; I cannot tell
what you did to him, but something which broke
his heart. You know I never say anything ;
you give me no title. I am as much of a
stranger to you as if we had met yesterday ;
and do not fancy I am ever  jealous  as men
are sometimes. I know you would laugh at
me, and besides, you care for none of them anymore
than you care for me. I should be a fool
to wish for more than that ;  if it be always
like that, I shall never say anything. Only you
might have spared this lad. He was so young

and my cousin, and the only one left to his
mother.'

He paused, in stronger agitation than he
cared to allow her to see. It was the first time
for years that he had ventured to speak to her
in any sort of earnestness or of upbraiding.
She had allotted him his share in her life, a
very distant one ; and he had accepted it without
dispute or lament, if not without inward
revolt ; it was for the first time for years
that he presumed to show her he had observed
her actions and had disapproved them,
to hint that he was not the mere lay figure, the
mere good-natured dolt, ' bon comme du pain, 9
and as commonplace, which she had always
considered him.

She looked at him a little curiously ; there
was a dangerous irritation in her glance, yet a
touch of emotion was visible in her as she said
with impatience, ' You are growing theatrical.
It does not become you. Boris was a boy,
foolish as boys are ; he had no mind ; he
was a mere spoilt child ; he was grown up
in inches, not in character ; so many Eussians
are. If he have killed himself, who can help
it? They should have kept him at home.

Why do you play yourself? He is not the
first.'

6 No, he is not the first,' said Napraxine,
with a curt bitterness. c He is not the first,
and it was not play ; he only played to have
an excuse. He thought of your name, perhaps
of mine ; he did not wish the world to know
he died because you laughed at him.'

Laughed ! I used to laugh ; why not ?
He was amusing before he grew tragical. I
rebuked him yesterday, for he deserved it.
Everyone scolds boys. It is good for them.

No one supposes ' her tone was impatient

and contemptuous, but her lips quivered a
little ; she was sorry that the boy was dead,
though she would not say so. It hurt her,
though it annoyed her more.

4 Did he  did he suffer ?' she asked, abruptly.


Napraxine took out of the breast-pocket
of his coat a sheet of note-paper, and gave it
her.

He died instantly, if you mean that,' he
answered. c He knew enough to aim well.
They brought me that note ; he had written it
last night, I think.'

Iii the broad, rude handwriting of the
young Seliedoff there was written : 

6 Pardonnez-moi, mon cousin : je adore, et
elle se moque de moi ; je ne peux pas vivre,
mais j'aurai soin que le monde e'en sache rien.
Signed ma pauvre mere. Tout a vous de
coeur 'Boris FEDOROvrTCH.'

She read it with a mist before her eyes, and
gave it back to him without a word.

Napraxine looked at her wistfully ; he wondered
if he had killed himself whether she
would have cared more than she cared now 
no, he knew she would have cared as little,
even less.

You say nothing ?' he murmured wistfully.

What is there to say ?' she answered. ' It
was a boy's blunder. It was a grievous folly.
But no one could foresee it.'

That is all the lament you give him ?'

1 Would it please you better if I were weeping
over his corpse ? I regret his death profoundly
; but I confess that I am also unspeakably
annoyed at it. I detest melodramas.
I detest tragedies. The world will say, as you
have the good taste to say, that I have been at
fault. I am not a coquette, and a reputation

of being one gives me no satisfaction. As you
justly observed, no one will believe that a
Count SeliedofF destroyed his life because he
lost money at play. Therefore, they will say,
as you have been so good as to say, that the
blame lies with me. And such accusations
offend me.'

She spoke very quietly, but with a tone
which seemed chill as the winter winds of
the White Sea, to Napraxine, whose soul was
filled with remorse, dismay, and bewildered
pain. Then she made him a slight gesture of
farewell and left him. As usual, he was entirely
right in the reproaches he had made, yet
she had had the power to make himself feel
at once foolish and at fault, at once coarse and
theatrical.

8 Poor Boris ! ' he muttered, as he drew his
hand across his wet lashes.

Had it been worth while to die at threads
twenty years old, in full command of all
which the world envies, only to have that cruel
sacrifice called a boy's blunder? His heart
ached and his thoughts went, he knew not
why, to his two young children away in the
birch forests by the Baltic Sea. She would not

vol. 11. Q

care any more if she heard on the morrow that
they were as dead in their infancy as Boris
SeliedofF was in his youth, lying under the
aloes and the palms of Monte Carlo in the
southern sunshine.

Plato Napraxine was a stupid man, a man
not very sensitive or very tender of feeling, a
man who could often console himself with
coarse pleasures and purchasable charms for
wounds given to his affections or his pride ;
but he was a man of quick compunction and
warm emotions ; he felt before the indifference
of his wife as though he stretched out his hand
to touch a wall of ice, when what he longed
for was the sympathetic answering clasp of
human fingers. He brushed the unusual moisture
from his eyes, and went to fulfil all those
innumerable small observances which so environ,
embitter, and diminish the dignity of
death to the friends of every dead creature.

Meanwhile, Nadine passed on to her own
rooms, and let her waiting-woman change her
clothes.

A momentary wish, wicked as a venomous
snake, and swift as fire, had darted through her
thoughts.

'Why had not Othmar died like that?
I would have loved his memory all my life ! '
she thought, with inconsistency.

Though she had almost refused to acknowledge
it, the suicide of Seliedoff pained and
saddened her. Foremost of all was her irritation
that she who disliked tragedies, who
abhorred publicity, who disbelieved in passion,
should be thus subject to having her name in
the mouths of men in connection with a melodrama
which, terrible as it was, yet offended
her by its vulgarity and its stupidity. The hour
and the scene chosen were vulgar ; the transparency
of the pretext was stupid. It was
altogether, as she had said, a boy's blunder  a
blunder, frightful, irreparable, with the horror
of youth misspent and life self destroyed upon
it  still a blunder. She thought, with impatience,
that what they called love was only a
spoilt child's whim and passionate outcry which,
denied, ended in a child's wild, foolish fit of rage,
with no more wisdom in it than the child has.

All Europe would say that, indirectly, she
had been the cause of his death ; every one
had seen him, moping and miserable, in her
rooms the previous day. She disliked a 

2

national triumph, which was fit for her husband's
mistresses, for Lia, for Aurelius, for la belle
Fernando. Men were always doing these
foolish things for her. She had been angry
certainly : who would not have been so ? He
had been ridiculous, as youth and intense
emotion and unreasonable suffering constantly
are in the sight of others.

There had been only one man who had not
seemed to her absurd when passion had moved
him, and that had only been because he had
remained master of himself even in his greatest
self-abandonment. If it had been Othmar who
had been lying dead there with the bullet in
his breast, she would have felt  she was not
sure what she would have felt  some pleasure,
some pain. Instead, he was at Amyot finding
what pleasures he might in a virginal love, like
a spring snowdrop, timid and afraid. She, who
always analysed her own soul without indulgence
or self-delusion, was disgusted at the
impulses which moved her now.

After all,' she thought, ' Goethe was right ;
we are always capable of crime, even the best
of us ; only one must be Goethe to be capable
of acknowledging that.'

She sat alone awhile, thoughtful and regretful
; indisposed to accept the blame of
others, yet not unwilling to censure herself if
she saw cause. But she saw no cause here ;
it was no fault of hers if men loved her as she
passed by them without seeing they were there.
True, she had been annoyed with the youth ;
she had been irritated by him ; she had treated
him a little as some women treat a dog,  a
smile one day, the whip the next ; but she had
thought so little about him all the time, except
that his high spirits were infectious and his face
was boyishly beautiful, and that it had diverted
her to annoy Geraldine. But who could have
supposed that it would end thus ? And amidst
her pain and her astonishment was foremost
a great irritation at his want of thought for
her.

The journals, with their innuendoes, their
initials, their transparent mysteries ; the condolences
and the curiosities of her own society ; the
reproaches of his family ; the long ceremonious
Eussian mourning and Eussian rites  ' Quelle
corvee ! ' she murmured impatiently, as at some
pebble in her embroidered shoe, at some clove
of garlic in her delicate dinner.

After all, were the great sorrows of life
one half so unendurable in themselves as the
tiresome annoyances with which the foolish
habits of men have environed them ?

That our friend dies is pain enough, why
must we have also the nuisance of following
his funeral?

6 Men only think of themselves ! ' she said
irritably, in her own unconscious egotism. If
Boris Seliedoff had considered her as he should
have done, he would not have killed himself
within three miles of her garden terrace, at a
moment when all their own gossiping world
was crowding on the sunny shores of the
Mediterranean. A sense of the wrong done to
herself divided the regret, tinged almost with
remorse, which weighed on her.

As she moved through her boudoir to write
the inevitable and most difficult letter which
must be penned to his mother far away in the
province of the Ekaterinoslaf, a photograph, ina
frame of blue plush, caught her eye as it stood
amongst all the pretty costly nothings of her
writing-table. It was a photograph of Seliedoff;
it had been tinted with an artist's skill, and the

boyish handsome mouth smiled tenderly and
gaily at her.

For almost the first time in her life she felt
the tears rise to her throat and eyes. She laid
the picture face downward, and wept.

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

A few days later when the remains of Boris
Seliedoff had been removed to Russia, there to
find their last home in the sombre mausoleum
of his family on their vast estates in Eaters
Geraldine, who was one of the few who
were admitted to La Jacquemerille in these
days of mourning, coming thither one afternoon
to find her in the garden alone and to
entreat for permission to follow her in the
various travels which she was about to undertake,
since the Eiviera had grown distasteful
to her, was accosted by her abruptly, if in her
delicate languor she could ever be termed
abrupt :

My dear Ealph,' she said briefly, ' why do
you not go home ? '

Geraldine drew his breath quickly, and
stared at her.

Go home ! ' he repeated stupidly.

Well, you have a home ; you have several

homes,' she said, with her usual impatience at
being questioned or misunderstood by wits
slower than her own. ' You are an Englishman
; you must have a million and one duties.
It is utterly wrong to live so much away from
your properties. We do it, but I do not think
it matters what we do. Whether we be here
or there, it is always the stewards who rule
everything, but in your country it is different.
Your sister says j t ou can do a great deal of good.
I cannot imagine what good you should do,
but no doubt she knows. I do not like England
myself. Your chateaux are very fine, but the
life in them is very tiresome. You all eat far
too much and far too often, and you have
lingering superstitions about Sunday ; your
women are always three months behind Paris,
and never wear shoes like their gowns ; your
talk is always of games, and shooting, and flattering.
You are not an amusing people ; you
never will be. You have too much of the
Teuton, and the Hollander, and the Dane in
you. Your stage makes one yawn, your books
make one sleep, your country-houses make one
do both. Your women clothe themselves in
Newmarket coats, get red faces, and like to go

over wet fields ; your men are well built very
often, but they move ill ; they have no designs
they have no charm. The whole thing
is tiresome. I shall never willingly go to England
; but you, as a great English noble, ought
to go there, and stay there  '

\ And marry there ! ' said Geraldine, bitterly.
' Is that the medicine you prescribe for
all your friends ? '

8 Of course you will marry some time,' she
said indifferently. ' Men of your position always
do ; they think they owe it to their country.
But whether you marry or not, go home and
be useful. You have idled quite too much time
away in following our changes of residence

He turned pale, and his eyes grew dark
with subdued anger.

1 You want to be rid of me ! '

Ah, that is just the kind of rough, rude
thing which an Englishman always says. It is
the reason why Englishmen do not please women
much. No Italian or Frenchman or Eussian
would make such a stupid, almost brutal, remark
as that ; lie would respect his own dignity
and the courtesy of words too greatly

8 We are unpolished, even at our best ; you

have told me so fifty times,' he said sullenly.
Well, let me be a savage, then, and ask for a
savage mercy ; a plain answer. You want me
away ? '

Nadine's eyes grew very cold.

\ I never say uncivil things,' she answered,
with an accent that was chill as the mistral.
4 But since for once you divine one's meaning, I
will not deny the accuracy of your divination.'

She blew a little cloud from a tiny cigarette
as she paused. She expressed, as clearly as
though she had spoken, the fact that her companion
was as little to her as that puff of
smoke.

6 Does sincerity count for nothing ? ' he
muttered stupidly.

Sincerity ! ' she echoed. 4 Ah ! English
people always speak as if they had a monopoly
of sincerity, like a monopoly of salt or a
monopoly of coal ! My dear Lord Geraldine,
I am not doubting your sincerity in the very
least ; it is not that which is wanting in
you '

What is ? ' he asked in desperation.

So much ! ' said the Princess Napraxine
with a little comprehensive smile and sigh.

6 If you would deign to speak definitely  '
he murmured in bitter pain, which lie strove
clumsily to make into the likeness of serenity
and irony.

Oh, if you wish for details !  It is just
that kind of wish for details which shows what
you fail in so very much ; tact, finesse, observation,
flexibility. My dear friend, you are
thoroughly insular ! Everything is comprised
in that ! '

He was silent.

I have not the least wish to vex you,' she
continued. ' I am quite sorry to vex you, but

if you will press me A painter teased me

the other day to go to his studio and see what
he had done for the salon. I made him polite
excuses, the weather, my health, my engagements,
the usual phrases, but lie would not be
satisfied with them, he continued to insist, so
at last he had the truth. I told him that I
detested almost all modern art, and that I did
not know why anyone encouraged it at all
when it was within everyone's power to have
at least line-engravings of the old masters. He
was not pleased  take warning. Do not be as
stupid as he.'

Geraldine understood, and his tanned cheek
grew white with pain. He was a proud man,
and had been made vain by his world. He
was bitterly and cruelly humbled, but the love
he had for her made him almost unconscious
of the offence to him, so overwhelming in its
cruelty was the sentence of exile which he
received.

He did not speak at once, for he could not be
sure to command his voice, and he shrank from
betraying what he felt. She rose, and threw the
cigarette over the balustrade into the sea, and
turned to go indoors. She had said what her
wishes were, and she expected to have them
obeyed without more discussion. But the young
man rose too, and barred her way.

He had only one consciousness, that he was
on the point of banishment from the only
woman whom he had cared for through two
whole years. It had become so integral a part
of his life that he should follow Nadine Na-praise
as the moon follows the earth, that
exile from her presence seemed to him the
most terrible of disasters, the most unendurable
of chastisements.

1 After all this time, do you only tell me to go

away ? ' he muttered, conscious of the lameness
and impotency of his own words, which might
well only move her laughter. But a certain
anger rather than amusement was what they
stirred in her ; there was in them an implied
right, an implied reproach, which were both
what she was utterly indisposed to admit his
title to use.

All this time ! ' she echoed ; ' all what
time? You are leading a very idle life, and
all your excellent friends say that you leave
many duties neglected ; I advise you to return
to them.'

6 Is it the end of all ? ' he said, while his
lips trembled in his own despite.

'All? All what? The end? No; it is
the end to nothing that I know of; I should
rather suppose that you would make it the
beginning  of a perfectly proper life at home.
Evelyn Brancepeth says you ought to reduce
all your farmers' rents ; go and do it ; it will
make you popular in your own county. I know
you good English always fancy that you can
quench revolutions with a little weak tea of that
sort. As if people who hate you will not hate
you just the same whether they pay you half

a guinea, or half a crown, for every sod of
ground ! Our Tsar Alexander thought the
same sort of thing en grand, and did it ; but
it has not answered with him. To be sure,
he was even sillier  he expected slaves to be
grateful ! '

You really mean that you are tired of my
presence ? ' he said, with no sense of anything
except the immense desolation which seemed
suddenly to cover all his life.

You will put the dots on all your i's ! ' she
said impatiently. ' That kind of love of explanation
is so English ; all your political men's time
is wasted in it. Nobody in England understands
a demi-mot, or appreciates the prettiness
of a hint

I understand well enough  too well,' he
muttered, with a sigh that was choked in its
birth. ' But -but  I suppose I am a fool ; I
did not think you really cared much  yet I
always fancied  I suppose I had no right  but
surely we have been friends at the least ? '

His knowledge of the world and of women
ought to have stopped the question unuttered ;
but a great pain, an intense disappointment,
had mastered him, and left him with no more

tact or wisdom than if he had been a mere
lad fresh from college. It cost him much to
make his reproach so measured, his words so
inoffensive. He began to understand why men
had said that Nadine Napraxine was more
perilous in her chastity and her spiritual cruelty
than the most impassioned Alcina.

She looked at him with a little astonishment
mingled with a greater offence.

6 Friends ? certainly ; why not ? ' she said,
with entire indifference. ' Who is talking of
enmity ? In plain words, since you like them
so much, you do  bore me just a little ; you
are too often here ; you have a certain manner
in society which might make gossips. remark it.
You do not seem to comprehend that one may
see too much of the most agreeable person
under the sun. It is, perhaps, a mistake ever
to see much of anyone ; at least, I think so.
Briefly, I do not wish to have any more stories
for Nice and its neighbourhood ; this one of
Boris Seliedoff is quite enough ! They are beginning
to give me a kind of reputation of
being a tueuse hommes. It is so vulgar, that
kind of thing. They are beginning to call me
Marie Stuart ; it is absurd, but I do not like that

sort of absurdities. I had nothing to do with the
folly of poor Boris, but no one will ever believe
it ; he will always be considered ray victim.
It is true you are certain not to kill yourself;
Englishmen always kill a tiger or a pig
if they are unhappy, never themselves. I am
not afraid of your doing any kind of harm ; you
will only go home and see your farmers and
please your family ; and you will give big
breakfasts in uncomfortable tents, and be
toasted, and your county newspapers will have
all sorts of amiable paragraphs about you, and
sometime or other you will marry  why not ?
Please stand back a little and let me pass ; we
shall meet in Paris next year when you take a
holiday on your reduced rents.'

She laughed a little, for the first time since
Seliedoff's suicide ; her own words amused her.
Those poor English gentlemen, who fancied
they would stem the great salt tide of class
hatred, the ever-heaving ocean of plebeian
envy, by the little paper fence of a reduced
rental ! Poor Abel, deluding themselves with
the idea that they could disarm the jealousy of
their Pains with a silver penny !

But the thoughts of Geraldine were far
VOL. 11. r

away from any political ironies with which
she might entertain her own discursive mind.

8 Nadine, Nadine,' he said stupidly, ' you
cannot be so cruel. I have always obeyed
you : I have never murmured ; I have been
like your dog ; I have been content on so
little. Other men would have rebelled, but
I I '

Her languid eyes opened widely upon him
in haughty surprise and rebuke.

8 Now you talk like a jeune premier of
the Gymnase ! ' she said, contemptuously.
8 Rebelled ? Content ? What words are those ?
You have been a pleasant acquaintance 
amongst many. You cannot say you have
been ever more. If you have begun to misunderstand
that, go where you can recover
your good sense. I have liked you ; so has
Prince Napraxine. Do not force us to consider
our esteem misplaced.'

She spoke coldly, almost severely ; then,
with an enchanting smile, she held out her
hand.

Come, we will part friends, though you
are disposed to bonder like a boy. You know
something of the world ; learn to look as if

you Lad learned at least its first lesson  good
temper. Affect it if you have it not ! And 
never outstay a welcome ! '

He looked at her and his chest heaved with
a heavy sigh that was almost a sob. Passionate
upbraiding rose to his lips, a thousand
reproaches for delusive disabilities, for patiently -
endured caprices, for wasted hours and wasted
hopes, and wasted energies, all rose to his
mouth in hot hard words of senseless, irrepressible
pain ; but they remained unuttered.
He dared not offend her beyond pardon, he
dared not exile himself beyond recall. He
was conscious of the futility of any reproach
which he could bring, of the absence of any
title which he could allege. For two years
he had been her bondsman, her spaniel, her
submissive servant in the full sight of the
world, yet looking backward he could not
recall any sign or word or glance which could
have justified him in the right to call himself
her lover. She had accepted his services,
permitted his presence  no more ; and yet, he
felt himself as bitterly wronged, as cruelly
deluded, as ever man ' could have been by
woman.

B 2

There is a little song which has been given
world-wide fame by the sweetest singer of our
time : the little song which is called, 6 Si vous
raves rien a me dire! Just so vague, and so
intense, as is the reproach of the song, was the
cry of his heart against her now.

If she had never cared, had never meant,
why then ?

But he dared not formulate his injury in
words ; he knew that it would condemn him never
to see her face again except in crowds as strangers
saw it. He had never really believed that she
would care for him as he cared for her, but it
had always seemed to him that habit would in
the end become affection, that the continual
and familiar intercourse which he had obtained
with her would become in time necessary to
her, an association, a custom, a friendship not
lightly to be discarded. He had believed that
patience would do more for him than passion ;
he had endured all her caprices, followed all
her movements, incurred the ridicule of men,
and, what was worse, his own self-contempt, in
the belief that, with her, Festina lente was the
sole possible rule of victory. And now she
cast him aside, with no more thought than she

left to her maids a fan of an old fashion, a
glove that had been worn once !

She gave him no time to recover the shock
with which he had heard his sentence of exile,
but, with a little kindly indifferent gesture,
passed him and went into the house.

He had not the courage of Othmar ; he
had never had as much title as Othmar to
deem himself preferred to the multitude ;
looking back on the two years which he had
consecrated to her memory and her service,
he could not honestly recall a single word or
glance or sign which could have justified him
in believing himself betrayed.

She had accepted his homage as she accepted
the bouquets which men sent her, to die in
masses in her ante-chambers.

His pain was intolerable, his disappointment
was altogether out of proportion to the frail,
vague hopes which he had cherished ; but he
felt also that his position was absurd, untenable
; he had never been her lover, he had
none of the rights of a lover ; he was only one
of many who had failed to please her, who had
unconsciously blundered, who had committed
the one unpardonable sin of wearying her.

Resistance could only make him ridiculous
in her eyes. She had plainly intimated that
she was tired of his acquaintance and companionship.
It was an intense suffering to him,
but it was not one which he could show to the
world, or in which he could seek the world's
sympathy. If he had failed to please her 
failed, despite all his opportunities, to obtain
any hold upon her sympathies  it was such
a failure as is only grotesque in the esteem
of men, and contemptible in the sight of
women.

6 A qui la faute V she would have said
herself, with a pitiless amusement, which the
world would only have echoed.

It was late in February, but already spring
in the Eiviera ; a brilliant sun was dancing
on all the million and one pretty tidings in her
boudoir, for she liked light, and could afford,
with her exquisite complexion and her flowerlike
mouth, to laugh at the many less fortunate
of her sex, who dared not be seen without
all the devices of red glass and rose-coloured
transparencies and muffled sunbeams. She
caressed her little dog, and bade the negro boy
brincv her some tea, and stretched herself out

on a long low chair with a pleasant sense
of freedom from a disagreeable duty done andover.


I will never be intimate with an Englishman
again,' she thought. ' They cannot understand;
they think they must be either your
Caesar or nullus : it is so stupid ; and then,
when you are tired, they grumble. Other men
say nothing to you, but they fight somebody
else,  which is so much better. It is only the
Englishman who grumbles, and abuses 'you as
if you were the weather ! '

The idea amused her.

Through her open windows she could seethe
sea. She saw the boat of Geraldine, with
its red-capped crew pulling straightway to the
westward ; he was going to his yacht ; the
affair was over peaceably ; he would not kill
himself like Seliedoff. Her husband would
miss him for a little time, but he was used
to men who made themselves his ardent and
assiduous friends for a few months or more,
and then were no more seen about his house,
being banished by her ; he was wont to call
such victims the Zephyrs after that squadron of
the mutinous in the Algerian army, which

receives all those condemned and rejected by
their chiefs. He would ask no questions ; he
would understand that his old companion had
joined the rest ; he had never cared for the
fate of any save for that of young Seliecloff.
There were always men by the score ready to
amuse, distract, and feast with Prince Na-praise.


She drank her yellow tea with its slice
of lemon, and enjoyed the unwonted repose
of half an hour's solitude. She was conscious
at once of a certain relief in the definite exile
of her late companion, yet of a certain magnanimity,
inasmuch as she would enable other
women to presume that he had grown tired of
his allegiance.

But the latter consideration weighed little
with her ; she had been too satiated with
triumph not to be indifferent to it, and she
was at all times careless of the opinions of
others. She would miss him a little, as one
misses a well trained servant, but there would
be so many others ready to fill his place.
Whenever her groom-of-the-chambers told her
hall-porter to say ' Madame recoil,' her rooms
were filled with young men ready to obey her

slightest sign or wildest whim as poodles or
spaniels those of their masters. There were
not a few who, like Geraldine, regulated their
seasons and their sojourns by the capricious
movements of the Princess JNTapraxine, as poor
benighted shepherds follow the gyrations of
an ignis fatuus. Whether north, south, east,
or west, wherever she was momentarily resident,
there was always seen her corps de
garde.

As she sat alone now for the brief half-hour
before her usual drive, her past drifted before
her recollection in clear colours, as though she
were quite old. She remembered her childhood,
spent at the embassies of great cities,
where her father was the idol of all that was
distinguished and of much that was dissolute ;
the most courtly, the most witty, the most
elegant, of great diplomatists. She remembered
how, sitting in her mother's barouche in the
Bois or the Prater, or petted and caressed by
sovereigns and statesmen in her mother's
drawing-rooms, she had seen so much with her
opal-like eyes, heard so much with her 
ears, and had, at ten years old, said to
Count Platoffff, ' Je serai bonnet femme; ce

sera plus chic ; ' and how his peal of laughter
had disconcerted her own serious mood and
solemnity of resolve. Then she remembered
how, when she was seventeen years old, her
mother had advised her to marry her cousin ;
and how her father, when she had been
tempted to ask his support of her own adverse
wishes, had twisted his silken white moustaches
with a little shrug of his shoulders, and had
said : c Mais, mon enfant, je ne sais  nous
sommes presque ruines ; 9a me plaira  et un
mari, c'est si peu de chose ! '

Si peu de chose ! ' she thought, now ; and
yet a bullet that you drag after you, a note of
discord always in your music, a stone in your
ball slipper, dance you ever so lightly  an
inevitable ennui always awaiting you !

If they had not been in such haste, I
should have met Othmar and have married
him ! ' she mused, with that frankness which
was never missing from her self-communion.

Life would have looked differently ; 1

would have made him the foremost man in
Europe ; he has the powers needful, but he
has no ambitions ; his millions have stifled
them.'

She thought, with something that was
almost envy, of the fate of Yseulte, and with
a remembrance, which was almost disgust, of
the early hours of her own marriage, when all
the delicacy and purity of her own girlhood
had revolted against the brutality of obligations
which she had in her ignorance submitted to
accept.

How could she care for the children born
of that intolerable degradation to which no
habit or time had had power to reconcile
her?

In her own eyes she had been as much
violated as any slave bought in the market.

'If I had daughters, they should at least
know to what they surrendered themselves
before they were given away in marriage,' she
had often reflected, with a bitter remembrance
of the absolute innocence in which she herself
had repeated the vows, and broken the glass,
which had indissolubly united her to her cousin
Plato.

Then, with the irony even of herself, and
the doubt even of herself, which were stronger
than any other instincts in her, she laughed at
her own momentary sentiment.

'I dare say I should have been tired of
him in six months,' she thought, ' and very
likely we should have hated one another in
another six. He would not have been as
easy as Plato ; he would have had his prejudices
'

Before her mind there rose the vision of a
place she had once seen as she had sailed in a
yacht down the Adriatic one cool autumnal
month ; a place not far from Ragusa, somewhat
farther to the southward ; a fantastic pile, half
Greek, half Turkish, with an old Gothic keep
built by Quattrocentisto Venetians rising in its
midst ; gardens of palms and woods of ilex
sloping from it to meet the lapis-lazuli-hued
sea, cliffs of all the colours of precious stones
towering up behind it into the white clouds
and the dazzling sunshine. Fascinated by the
aspect of the place, she had asked its name and
owner, and the Austrians with her had
answered her, * It is called Zama, and it
belongs to the Othmars.'

She had often remembered the Heroes
castle, lonely as Miramar after the
tragedy of Quetaro.

I would not have lived at Amyot, but at

Zama,' she thought now ; then, angry and impatient
of herself, she dismissed her fancies as
you banish with a light clap of your hands a
flock of importunate birds, which fly away as
fast as they have come.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Are you very happy ? ' said Baron Fritz
to Yseulte in his occasional visits to Amyot.
And she answered without words, with a blush
and a smile which were much warmer than
words. He saw that she was perfectly happy,
as yet ; that whatever thorns might be beneath
the nuptial couch, they had not touched her.

He did not venture to put the same question
to Othmar. There were times when he would
no more have interrogated his nephew than he
would have put fire to a pile of powder ; he
had at once the vague fear and the abundant
contempt which a thoroughly practical, artificial,
and worldly man has for one whose
dreams and desires are wholly unintelligible to
him.

Otho,' he said once to her, ' is like an
Eastern sorcerer who holds the magic ring with
which he can wish for anything under heaven ;
but, as he cannot command immortality, all his

life slips through his fingers before he has decided
on what is most worth wishing for. Do
you understand ? '

Yseulte did not understand ; to her this
sorcerer, if not benignant to himself, had at
least given all her soul desired. He treated
her with the most constant tenderness, with the
most generous delicacy, with the most solicitous
care ; if in his love there might be some of the
heat of passion, some of the ardours of possession,
lacking, it was not the spiritual affection
and the childish innocence of so young a girl
which could be capable of missing those, orbe
conscious of their absence. To Yseulte, love
was at once a revelation and a profanation :
she shrank from it even whilst she yielded toit
; it was not to such a temperament as hers
that any lover could ever have seemed cold.

She did not understand her husband ; physical
familiarity had not brought much mental
companionship. She adored him ; the distant
sound of his step thrilled her with excitement,
his lightest touch filled her with delight ; the
intense love she bore him often held her silent
and pale with an excess of emotion which she
would have been afraid to render into speech

even if she had been able to do so ; and she
was utterly unable, for the strength of her own
feelings alarmed her, and the mode of her
education had made her reticent.

He was to her as a god who had suddenly
descended upon her life, and changed all its
poor, dull pathways into fields of light. That
she gave, or that she might give him, much
more than he gave her, never occurred to her
thoughts. That any ardour of admiration, or
force of emotion, might be absent in him towards
her, never suggested itself to her. Such
love as he bestowed on her, indifferent though
it was in reality, seemed to her the very height
of passion. She could not tell that mere sensual
indulgences mingled with affectionate compassion,
may produce so fair a simulacrum of love
for awhile that it will deceive alike deceiver
and deceived.

Othmar knew that nothing tenderer, purer,
or nearer to his ideal, could have come into
his life than this graceful and most innocent
girl. She satisfied his taste if not his mind ;
she was as fresh as a sea-shell, as a lily, as a
summer-dawn ; and he felt an entire and illimitable
possession in her such as he had never

felt in any living woman ; she was so young,
it seemed like drinking the very dew of morning
; and yet he could not have told whether
he was most restless or most in peace at
Amyot.

Love me a little, dear ; I have no one
he had said to her on the day of their betrothal,
and it had always seemed to him that
he had no one ; all his mistresses had never
cared for him, but only for the golden god
which was behind him ; or, he had thought so.
And now, she loved him with an innocence
and a fervour of which he could not doubt
the truth ; and he was grateful, as the masters
of the world are usually grateful, for a handful
of the simple daily bread of real affection ;
and she gave him all her young untouched
loveliness in pledge of that, as she might have
given him a rosebud to pluck to pieces. And
he felt the sweetness of the rosebud, he resigned
himself to the charm of the dawn, and endeavoured
to believe that he was happy; but
happiness escaped him as the vermilion hues of
the evening sky may escape the dreamer watching
for them, who looks too closely or looks
too far.

vol. 11. s

Yet he remained willingly at Amyot through
these winter weeks ; as willingly as though he
had been the most impassioned of lovers.
Amyot was as far from the world, if he chose,
as though its pastures and avenues had been
an isle in the great South Ocean ; he wished to
forget the world with the ivory arms of Yseulte
drawn about his throat : he would gladly have
forgotten that any other woman lived beside
this child, on whose innocent mouth, sweet as
the wild rose in spring, he strove to stay the
fleeting fragrance of his own youth.

No man had ever sweeter physician to his
woes,' he thought as he looked at her in her
sleep, the red glow from the angry winter sunrise
touching with its light the whiteness of
her sculptural limbs. But what drug cures for
long?

Friederich Othmar often went to the chateau
for a few hours on matters of business, and
was persuaded that the shining metal roofs of
the great Valois house of pleasure sheltered a
perfect contentment.

But you must not remain for ever here,'
he said to his nephew. ' They will give you
some foolish name which will run down the

boulevards like magic ; they will say you are
in love with your wife, or that you are educating
her ; we all know what comes of that
latter attempt.'

8 1 stay at AmyOt,' answered Othmar, ' because
I like it, because we both like it.'

'My dear Otho, since you have pleased
yourself persistently all your life, it is improbable
that you will cease to do so at an age
when most men are only just able to begin.
Amyot is an historic place, very old, admirably
adapted for a museum ; but since it is to your
taste, well and good ; only none will comprehend
that you stay here scant le par/ait amour
for two months. If you continue to do so,
Paris will believe that your wife has a clubfoot
or a crooked spine.'

c You think she must show the one in a
cotillon, or the other in something tres collant ? '
said Othmar.

4 Are you afraid of that ? ' said the Baron,
who knew by what means to attain his own
ends.

1 1 am not in the least afraid,' replied
Othmar, with impatience. ' But I confess
Amyot, with the cuckoo crying in its oaks

2

woods, seems a fitter atmosphere for her than
the endiablement of Paris.'

You could return to the cuckoo. I am
not acquainted with his habits, but I should
presume he is a stay-at-home, countryfied
person.'

8 You do not understand the spring-times
said Othmar, with a smile.

8 It has always seemed to me the most uncomfortable
period of the year,' confessed the
Baron. ' It is an indefinite and transitory
period, such as are seldom agreeable, except to
poets, who are naturally unstable themselves.'

4 1 suppose you were never young ? ' said
Othmar, doubtfully.

1 must have been, pathologically speaking
replied Friederich Othmar. 8 But I have no
recollection of it ; I certainly never remember
a time when I did not read of the state of
Europe with interest : I think, on the contrary,
there was never a time in which you took any
interest in it.'

Europe is such a very small fraction of
such an immeasurable whole ! '

8 It is our fraction at least ; and all we
have,' said the Baron ; all the gist of the

matter seemed to him to lie in that. ' You
would like to live in Venus, or journey to the
rings of Saturn, but at present science limits us
to Earth.'

Can you not persuade him to take any
interest in mankind ? ' he continued to Yseulte,
as she approached them at that moment. He
was about to leave Amyot after one of his
brief and necessary visits, and stood smoking
a cigarette before his departure in the great
central hall, with its dome painted by .


In mankind ? ' she repeated with a smile.
That is very comprehensive, is it not ? I am
sure,' she added with hesitation, for she was
afraid of offending her husband, ' he is very
good to his own people, if you mean that? '

'He does not mean that at all, my dear,'
said Othmar. 'He means that I should be
very eager to ruin some states and upraise
others, that I should foment war and disunion,
or uphold anarchy or absolutism, as either best
served me, that I should free the hands of one
and tie the hands of another ; do not trouble
your head about these matters, my child ; let
us go in the woods and look for primroses,

which shall remind you of the green lanes of
Faiel.'

Yseulte, whose interest was vaguely aroused,
looked from one to another.

If you really can do so much as that,'
she said timidly, ' I think I would do it if I
were you ; because surely you might always
serve the right cause and help the weak people.'

Othmar smiled, well pleased.

My dear Baron, this is not the advocate that
you wish to arouse. Eemember Mephistopheles
failed signally when he entered a cathedral.'

6 I do not despair ; I shall have Paris on
my side,' said the Baron, as he made his farewells.


The day was bright, and a warm wind was
stirring amidst the brown buds of the trees and
forests ; the great forests wore the purple haze
of spring ; from the terraces of Amyot, where
once Francis and the Marguerite des Marguerites
had wandered, the immense view
of the valleys of the Loire and of the Cher
was outspread in the noon sunlight, white
tourelle and grey church spire rising up
from amid the lake of golden air like ' silver
sails upon a summer sea; From these stately

terraces, raised high on colonnades of marble,
with marble statues of mailed men-at-arms
standing at intervals adown their length, the
eyes could range over all that champaign
country which lies open like a chronicle of
France to those who have studied her wars and
dynasties.

Yseulte loved to come there when the sun
was bright as when it was at its setting, and
dream her happy dreams, whilst gazing over
the undulations of the "great forests spreading
solemn and hushed and shadowy, away, faraway,
to the silver line of the vast river and to
the confines of what once was Touraine.

1 What do you find to think so much of,
you, with your short life and your blameless
conscience ? ' asked Oth mar that day, looking
at her as she leaned against the marble parapet.

She might have answered in one word,
4 You,' but love words did not come easily to
her lips ; she was very shy with him still.

She answered evasively : ' Does one always
think at all when one looks, and looks, and
looks, idly like this ? I do not believe reverie
is real thinking ; it is an enjoyment ; everything
is so still, so peaceful, so bright  and

then it cannot go away, it is all yours ; we
may leave it, it cannot leave us.'

You are very fond of the country ? '

I have never been anywhere else, except
when I was a little child in Paris. I love
Paris, but it is not like this.'

6 No woman lives who does not love Paris ;
but I think Amyot suits you better. You have
a Valois look ; you are of another day than
ours. I should not like to see you grow like
the women of your time ; you are a true
patrician  you have no need of chien.'

He put a hothouse rose in her bosom as he
spoke, and kissed her throat as he did so. The
colour flushed there at his touch. She stooped
her face over the rose.

4 1 do not think I shall ever change,' she
said, hurriedly. c It seems to me as if one
must remain what one is born.'

The ivory must ; the clay changes,' said
Othmar. ' You are very pure ivory, my love. I
robbed you from Christ.'

He was seated on one of the marble benches
in the balustrade of the terrace ; she stood
before him, while his hand continued to play
with the rose he had put at her breast. She

wore a white woollen gown, which fell about
her in soft folds, edged with ermine ; a broad
gold girdle clasped her waist, and old guipure
lace covered her heart, which beat warm and
high beneath his touch as he set the great
crimson rose against it. In an innocent way
she suddenly realised her own charm and its
power which it gave her over any man ; she
lost her timidity, and ventured to ask him a
question.

What is it that the Baron wishes you so
much to do ? ' she said, as she stood before him.
I did not understand.'

4 He wishes me, instead of putting roses in
your corsage, to busy myself with setting the
torch of war to dry places

8 1 do not understand. What is it you can
do?'

1 I will try and tell you in a few words.
There are a few men, dear, who have such an
enormous quantity of gold that they can
arrange the balance of the world much at
pleasure. One man, called Vanderbilt, could,
for instance, make such a country as England
bankrupt if he chose, merely by throwing his
shares wholesale on the market. The Othmar

are such men as this. My forefathers made
immense fortunes, mostly very wickedly, and
by force of their own unscrupulousness have
managed to become one of these powers of the
world. I have no such taste for any such
power. It is w T with my indifference that my
uncle reproaches me. He thinks that if I
bestowed greater attention to the state of
Europe I could double the millions I possess.
I do not want to do that ; I do not care to do
that ; so a great chasm of difference yawns
for ever between him and me.'

8 He loves you very much ? '

8 Oh, in his way ; but I irritate him and
he irritates me. We have scarcely a point in
common.'

8 Perhaps,' said Yseulte, amazed at her own
boldness in suggesting a fault in him, ' perhaps
you have not quite patience with his difference
of character ? '

8 That is very possible,' said Othmar, himself
astonished at her insight. ' I could pardon
anything if he would not speak of the Othmar
as Jews speak of Jehovah. It is so intolerably
absurd.'

\ But they are your people.'

Alas ! yes. But I despise them ; I dislike
them. They were intolerably bad men, my
dear; they did intolerably bad things. All
this,' he continued, with a gesture of his hand
towards the mighty building of Amyot, with its
marble terraces and its many towers dazzling
in the sunlight, ' they would never have possessed
save through hundreds of unscrupulous
actions heaped one on the other to make
stepping-stones across the salt-marsh of poverty
to the yellow sands of fortune. Oh, I do not
mean that Amyot was not bought fairly. It
was bought quite fairly, at a very high price,
by my great grandfather, but the wealth which
enabled him to buy it was ill-gotten. His
father was a common Croat horse-dealer, which
is a polite word for horse-stealer, who lived in
the last century in the city of Agram. There
are millions of loose horses in the vast oak
woods of Western Hungary and the immense
plains of Croatia, and to this day there are many
men who live almost like savages, and steal
these half wild horses as a means of subsistence.
There were, of course, many more of these
robbers in the last century than in this. Marc
Othmar did not actually steal the horses, but

Le bought them at a tenth part of their value
from these rough men of the woods and plains
when stolen, and the large profits he made by
this illegal traffic laid the foundations of the
much-envied fortunes which I enjoy, and which
you grace to-day.'

He had spoken as though he explained
the matter to a child, but Yseulte's ready
imagination supplied the colour to his bare
outlines. She was silent, revolving in her
thoughts what he had said.

I would rather your people had been warriors,'
she said, with hesitation, thinking of her
own long line of crusaders.

6 1 would rather they had been peasants,' he
returned. ' But being what they were, I must
bear their burdens.'

Then what is it he wishes you to do that
you do not ? '

He wishes me to have many ambitions, but
as I regard it, the fortunes which I have been
born to entirely smother ambition ; whatever
eminence I might achieve, if I did achieve it,
would never appear better than so much preference
purchased. If I had been as great a
soldier as Soult, they would have said I bought

my victories. If I had had the talent of Balzac,
they would have said I bought the press.
If I had written the music of the " Hamlet "
or the " Eoi de Lahore," they would have said
that I bought the whole musical world for my
claque. If I could have the life that I should
like, I should choose such a life as Lamartine's,
but a rival of the Rothschild cannot be either
a poet or a leader of a revolution. The mon-strath
digits ruins the peace and comfort of
life : if I walk down the boulevard with the
Comte de Paris the fools cry that I wish to
crown Philippe VII., if I speak to M. Wilson
in the foyer of the Francis they scream that
there is to be a concession for a new loan ;
if the Prince Orloff come to breakfast with
me a Eussian war is suspected, and if Prince
Hohenlohe dine with me I have too German
a bias. This kind of notoriety is agreeable
to my uncle. It makes him feel that he holds
the strings of the European puppet show.
But to myself it is detestable. To come and
go unremarked seems to me the first condition
of all for the quiet enjoyment of life,
but I have been condemned to be one of those
unfortunates who cannot drive a phaeton down

to Chantilly without the press and the public
becoming nervous about the intentions of M.
cVAumale. Last year, one very hot day, I was
passing through Paris, and I asked for a glass
of water at a little cafe at the barrier. They
stared, and brought me some. When I told
them that I only wanted water, the waiter said,
with a smile, " Monsieur ne peut pas etre series
! nous avons l'honneur de le connaitre."
The world, like the waiter, will not let me have
plain water when I wish for it. I dare say
my wish may be perversity, but, at any rate, it
is always thwarted by the very people who
imagine they are gratifying me with indulgences.'


1 But some of the people love you,' she insisted.
\ Did not the workmen of Paris give
you that beautiful casket the other day ? Was
it not bought by a two-sous subscription ? '

That was more a compliment to the Maison
d'Othmar than to myself. We have always
been popular in Paris ; so was Louis Napoleon
once. We have much the same titles as he
had ; we have committed many crimes, and
caused immeasurable misery.'

'Not you,' she said softly.

4 1 inherit the results,' said her husband.

But you have done great tidings,' she said
timidly. ' The cure here was telling me yesterday
of all you have done for the poor of
Paris. He says that the hospitals you have
founded, the charities you maintain '

The cure knows his way to your heart
and your purse! My dear, the Emperor
Napoleon Trois thought that he did a great
thing for the poor of Paris when he pulled
down their rookeries and built them fine and
healthy cites onvrieres; there was only one
thing the Emperor could not do : he could not
make the poor live in them ; and the Convalescent
Home he erected at Vincennes did
not save him from Sedan, or Paris from the
Commune. We who are rich shall always have
the Emperor's fate ; we shall build as much as
we like, and spend as much as we like, but we
shall never reach the hearts of the great
multitudes, who all hate us. It is very natural
they should. Never say a word about what
they call my charities. They are blunders
like the Emperor's, many of which seem now to
be very absurd ones. If I ever come to my
Sedan, they will not be remembered for an hour.

The one thing I can do, and will do, is, that I
will prevent, as long as I live, the use of the
great mill of gold which we grind being turned
to immoral purposes  such purposes, for instance,
as the oppression of peoples, as the
barter of nationalities, as the supply of the
sinews of unjust and unholy wars, as the many
intolerable iniquities which, whilst professing
Christianity, modern statesmen employ under
spurious names to most intolerable ends. So
much I can do ; and, for doing it, I am
thought a fool. All the rest is wholly indifferent
to me. The machine swings on as
it will ; it is so admirably organised that it
requires little guidance, and, that little, Baron
Friederich gives, whilst I am free, my dear, to
stay at Amyot and gather you another rose,
for I have spoilt this one.'

He had spoken more gaily, frankly, and
fully than was his wont, an$ kissed her softly
on the throat once more.

Yseulte's thoughts were with his earlier
words ; her eyes were moist, and very serious.
It was the first time that he had ever alluded
before her to his family or his position ; she
had never at all understood what they had

meant around her when they had spoken of la
Finance ; she had seen that he was tres grand
seigneur, and was treated, wherever he moved,
with the greatest marks of deference. It
seemed very strange to her that so much power
and state should be possible without unblemished
descent: it was outside of her creed and
her comprehension. If she had loved him
less, it would have shocked her.

1 1 am sorry,' she said softly, ' it must have
troubled you so much. I understand why you
are sometimes sad. It must be like holding
lightning in your hands ; and then there is the
fear of usino- it ill '

My greatest fault has been to be too
careless of it,' he answered. ; To have used
my power neither way, neither for good nor
ill. I have comforted myself that I have done
no harm ;  a negative praise. Come, let us go
and choose another rose for you ; or shall we
go into the woods ? You like them better.
Do not trouble your soul with the gold or the
crimes of the Othmar. You are come to purify
both ; and you will make your children in
your own likeness out of that consecrated ivory
of which heaven has made you ! '

VOL. II. T

She is the first woman of them all,' he
thought, as they descended the marble stairs
towards the glades of the park, ' the first who
has had any sympathy with me. They have all
thought me a fool for not turning round like
the sluggard, and lying drugged in my golden
nest. She understands very little because she
does not understand the world ; but she can
imagine how all which the vulgar think so
delightful drags me down like a wallet of
stones.'

 Yseulte,' he said aloud, ' do you know
what all my millions cannot buy, and what
I would give them all to be able to buy ? Well,
something like the mort sur le champ honneur,
which was said for a hundred and fifty years
when the name of Philippe de Valogne was
called in the roll-call of the Grenadiers

The memory he recalled was one of the most
glorious of her race ; one of those traditions of
pure honour which are common enough in the
nobility of France. The Counts de Valogne
had been behind none in high courage and lofty
codes ; and the local history of their province
was studded with the exploits and the martial
self-sacrifice whereby they had continually

redeemed their extravagance and their idleness
as courtiers and men of pleasure.

She turned to him with her brightest smile,
and her hand touched his with a gesture
caressing and timid.

c He is mine ; I will give him to you,' she
said, with a child's abandonment and gaiety.
I am so glad that I have something to give ! '

1 You will give his blood to my sons,' said
Othmar. ' So you will give it to me.'

T 2

CHAPTEE XXX.

Melville came one day to Amyot.

You have followed my advice,' he said to
Othmar. ' You have made yourself a home.
It is the nearest likeness to heaven that men
get on earth. Believe a homeless man when
he tells you so.'

Othmar smiled.

It is odd that you, the purest priest I know,
and my uncle, the worldliness of philosophers
and money-makers, should coincide in your
counsels. Perhaps to make a home is as
difficult as to make a discovery in astronomy
or mathematics, or to appreciate a sunrise or
sunset.'

Do you mean to say ? '

c I mean to say nothing in especial ; except
that one's life, as the world goes, does not fit
one to be the hourly companion of a perfectly
virginal mind. My dear Melville, she makes me
ashamed ; my society seems infinitely too coarse

for her. I have never seemed to myself such
a brute.'

That is, I fear, because you are not very
much in love, and so are at liberty to analyse
your own sensations : a lover would not feel
those scruples,' reflected Melville ; but he
merely said aloud : ' If a woman have not a
little of the angelic, she goes near to having
something of the diabolic. Women are always
in extremes.'

Her soul is like a crystal,' said Othmar.
But in it I see my own soul, and it looks unworthy.'


He could not say even to Melville, tried
physician of sick souls as he was, that there
were moments when the perfect purity of the
young girl wearied him, when her innocent
tenderness fretted him, and failed to supply all
the stimulant to his senses that women less
lovely but more versed in amorous arts could
have given, when he was, in a word  the most
fatal word love ever hears  wearied.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Othmar cueillant les marguerites aux bois!'
said Nadine Napraxine, with her most unkind
smile, when she heard that lie remained
under the Yalois woods until autumn.

She herself was in Russia ; forced also to
gather daisies in her own manner, which always
wearied her. It was necessary to be seen
awhile at Tsarkoe Self, or wherever the
Imperial people were ; and then to visit fora
few months the immense estates of Prince
Napraxine. They had gone thither earlier
than usual through the suicide of Boris Series
which had cast may noble northern
families into mourning, and had for a moment
chilled the feeling of Europe in general towards
herself.

6 It was so inconsiderate of him ! ' she said
more than once. ' Everyone was sure to put
it upon me!'

It seemed to her very unjust.

She had been kind to the boy, and then had
rebuked him a little as anybody else would
have done. Who could imagine that he would
blow his brains out under the palms and aloes,
like any decade without a franc ?

She was exceedingly angry that the world
should venture to blame her. When her Imperial
mistress, receiving her first visit, gave
some expression to this general sentiment, and
presumed to hazard some phrases which suggested
a hint of reproof, Nadine Napraxine
revolted with all the pride of her temper, and
did not scruple to respond to her interlocutor
that the Plato and the Napraxine both were
of more ancient lineage and greater traditions
in Eussia than those now seated on the throne.

To her alone would it have been possible
to make such a reply and yet receive condonation
of it, as she did. There was in her a
force which no one resisted, a magnetism which
no one escaped.

She was, however, extremely angered, both
by the remarks made to her at Court, and
about her in European society, and withdrew
herself to the immense solitudes of the province
of Kaluga in an irritation which was not without

dignity. Men who adored her, of whom
there were many, noticed that her self-exile to
Zaraizoff coincided with that of Othmar to
Amyot ; but there was no one who would have
dared to say so. Geraldine had gone to North
America, which had amused her.

He will not shoot himself,' she thought.
He will shoot a vast number of innocent
beasts instead. Seliedoff was the manlier of
the two.'

Zaraizoff was a mighty place set amongst
the endless woods and rolling plains of the
north-eastern provinces ; a huge rambling structure
half fortress, half palace, with the village
clustering near as in other days when the
Tartars might sweep down on it like vultures.
The wealth of the Napraxines had made it
within almost oriental in its luxury ; without, it
had much of the barbaric wildness of the
country, and it had been here in the first two
intolerable years after her marriage that she
had learned to love to be drawn by half wild
horses at lightning speed over the snow plains,
with the bay of the wolves on the air, and the
surety of fatal frost-bite if the furs were incautiously
dropped a moment too soon.

At Zaraizoff, when she established herself
there for the summer, she brought usually a
Parisian household with her, and inviting a succession
of guests, filled with a great movement
and gaiety of life the sombre courts, the silent
galleries and chambers, the antique walls all
covered with vivid paintings like a Byzantine
church, the long low salons luxurious as a
Persian harem. But this summer it saw her
come almost alone. Her children came also
from southern Eussia, and Plato Napraxine
at least was happy.

Is it possible to be uglier than that ; not
surely among the Kalmuck ! ' she thought,
looking in the good-tempered little Tartar-like
faces of her two small sons.

They were absurdly like their father ; but,
as they promised to be also, like him, tall and
well-built, would probably, as they grew up,
find many women, as he had found many, to
tell them they were handsome men ; but that
time was far off, and as yet they were but ugly
children. Sachs and Mitzz (Alexander and
Demerits) were respectively five and six years
old, big, stout, ungainly little boys, with flat
blunt features, in which the Tartar blood of the

Napraxine was prominently visible. They had
a retinue of tutors, governesses, bonnes, and
attendants of all kinds, and had been early
impressed with the opinion that a Napraxine
had no superior on earth save the Gospodar.

lis out pris la peine de maitre I ' quoted
their mother with contempt as she beheld their
arrogant little pomposities : she could never
forgive them that they had done so. It was
natural that when she looked in her mirror she
could scarcely bring herself to believe that they
had been the issue of her own life.

\ I suppose I ought to adore them, but I
certainly do not,' she said to Melville, who,
having been sent on a mission to Petersburg
by the Vatican in the vain hope of mitigating
by the charm of his manner the hard
fate of the Catholic Poles, had paused for a
day at Zaraizoff to obey the summons of its
mistress, travelling some extra thousand verses
to do so. It was to him that she had made
the remark about the daisies.

Melville, though he was a priest whose
vows were truly sacred obligations in his eyes,
was also keenly alive to those enjoyments of
the graces and luxuries of life which his

frequent employment in diplomatic missions for
the head of his Church made it not only permissible
but desirable for him to indulge in
at times. His brief visit to Zarai'zoff, and other
similar diversions, were agreeable episodes in
months of spiritual effort and very serious
intellectual work, and he abandoned himself
to the amusement of such occasional rewards
with the youthful ardour which sixty years had
not tamed in him.

Nadine Napraxine was not only charming
to his eyes and taste, as to those of all men,
but she interested him with the attraction which
a complicated and not easily unravelled character
possesses for all intellectual people. He
had perceived in her those gifts mental "and
moral which, under suitable circumstance, make
the noblest of temperaments, and he also perceived
in her an indefinite potentiality for
cruelty and for tyranny ; the conflict between
the two interested him as a psychological study.
He could not but censure her intolerance of
Napraxine ; yet neither could he refuse to sympathise
with it. The Prince was the last man
on earth to have been able to attain any power
over that variable, contemptuous, and subtle

temperament and over an intelligence refined
by culture to the utmost perfection of taste and
hypercriticism of judgment. He adored her
indeed, but c'est le pire default in such cases ;
and a hippopotamus in his muddy sedges might
have done so, with as much hope as he, of
exciting anything more than her impatience
and contempt.

8 1 certainly do not she repeated, as she
lay on a divan after dinner, in a grand hall imitated
from the Alhambra, with a copy of the
Lion fountain in white marble in the centre, and
groves of palms in white marble vases lifting
their green banners against the deep glow of
the many-coloured fretwork and diapered gold
of the walls. ' They are two quite uninteresting
children, stupid, obstinate, proud, already
convinced that a Prince Napraxine has only to
breathe a wish to see it accomplished. At
present they are good tempered and are fond
of each other, but that will not last long ;
they will soon feel their claws and use them.
They are quite wonderfully ugly ;  an ugliness
flat, heavy, animal, altogether Tartar. I imagine
I could have been fond of a child like
any other woman, but then I think with any

mother it must be always the child of a man
she loves ; it must be the symbol of sympathy
and the issue of joy '

She spoke dreamily, almost regretfully, her
delicate head lying back amongst the pillows
of golden silk, while she sent a little cloud of
smoke into the air.

Melville looked at her : he thought that
there were persons who were like the Neva
river ; the Neva does not freeze of itself, but it
has so many huge blocks of ice rolled down
into it from above that it looks as if it did.

He hesitated a moment ; he was too sagacious
a man of the world to intrude his own beliefs
where they would only have met with unbelief.

What can I say ? ' he murmured. c Only

that I suppose maternal love, after all, like all

other love, does not come at command; human

nature has always been under the illusion that

it was a spontaneous and irresistible growth.'

4 Human nature has so many illusions,' said
Nadine Napraxine. * But I have never heard
that much reason underlies any one of them.'

1 But does not our happiness ? ' said Melville.


She laughed a little.

'Do you believe much in happy people?
I think there are passions, vanities, titillations,
desires, successes  those one sees in full motion
on the earth, like animalcule in a drop of
water; but happiness, I imagine, died with
Paul et Virginia, with Charta and Tala. To
be happy, you must be capable of being unhappy.
We never reach that point ; we are
only irritable, or grow denique, according
to the variety of our constitutions.'

I knew a perfectly happy woman once,'
said Melville ; ' happy all her life, and she lived
long.'

'Oh, you mean some nun,' said Nadine
Napraxine, with impatience. ' That is not
happiness ; it is only a form of hysteria or
hypogastria.'

Not a nun,' replied Melville, making himself
a cigarette, while the sun played on the
red sash of his gown, the gown which Rafael
designed for Leo. ' Not a nun. The woman
I mean was a servant in a little dirty village
near Grenoble ; she had been in the service of
two cross, miserly people ever since she was
fifteen. At the time I knew her first she was
forty-seven. The old people had a small shop of

general necessaries ; she attended to the shop,
cooked, and cleaned, and washed, and spun,
dug, too, in a vegetable garden, and took care
of a donkey, and pigs, and fowls. When she
was about thirty, the old man first, and then the
old woman, became incapable, from paralysis.
Hose  her name was Rose  worked on harder
than ever. She had many offers of better service,
even offers of marriage, for she was a
famous housewife, but she refused them ; she
would not leave the old people. They were
poor ; they had never been good or grateful to
her ; they had even beaten her when she was a
girl ; but she would never leave them. She
had been a foundling, and theirs had been the
only form of human ties that she had ever
known. She was perfectly happy all the day
long, and she even found time to do many a
good turn for neighbours worse off than herself.
She had never had more than twenty francs a
year in money, but then " you see, I live well, I
want nothing," she said to me once. And such
living ! Black cabbage and black bread ! Well,
she was perfectly happy, as I say. You do not
seem to believe it ? '

Oh, yes ; so is a snail,' said the Princess

Nadine. ' Besides, you know, if she had been
a pretty woman '

Melville felt almost angry.

You are very cruel. Why will you divorce
beauty and virtue ? '

4 1 do not divorce them, nature usually does
she answered, amused. ' Perhaps they divorce
themselves. Well, what became of this paragon ? '

She was no paragon,' said Melville, annoyed.
' She was a hard-working, good, honest
woman, perfectly content with a horrible lot,
and loyal unto [death to two tyrannical old
brutes who never thanked her. When they
died they left all the little they had to a nephew
in the Jura, who had taken no notice of them
all their days  a rich tradesman. Poor Eose,
at fifty-three years old, was sent adrift on the
world. She cried her heart out to have to
leave the house, and the ass, and the chickens.
I got her the grant from the Prix Monty on,
and she was set up in a tiny shop of her own
in her own village, but she did not live long.
Quand on a ete heureuse, acres  c'est long,"
she said in her dying hour. She was afraid
to seem ungrateful, but " sans mes vieux" as
she said, apologetically, her life was done. It

seems a terrible life to us, but I can solemnly
declare that it was one of the few happy ones
of which I have ever been witness. There is a
sustaining, vivifying force in duty, like the heat
of the sun, for those who accept it.'

For those who accept it, no doubt,' said
Nadine Napraxine, drily ; ' but then, you see,
my dear and reverend Melville, it requires some
organ in one's brain  superstition, I think, or
credulity  before one can do that. Every one
is not blessed with that organ. Pray believe,'
she resumed, with her softer smile, perceiving
a vexed shadow on his face, ' I am not insensible
to the quiet unconscious heroism of those
lowly lives of devotion. They are always
touching. Those revelations which the discours
of the Prix Mention give from time to time
always make one envious of so much belief,
of so much endurance, of so much unobtrusive
and unselfish goodness. But, though I dare say
you will be very angry, I cannot help reminding
you that what makes the sparrow very happy
would have no sort of effect on the swallow, except
that he would feel restless and uncomfortable
; and also that pray forgive me, for you
are a priest  to be contented with doing one's

vol. 11. u

duty one must believe in duty as a Divine ordinance.
To do that one must have  well, just
that bump of credulity of which I spoke  of
easy, unquestioning, unintelligent, credulity.
Now, that it is a happy quality I am certain,
but is it,  is it, an intellectual one ? '

She spoke very sweetly, but with a demure
smile, which made Melville feel that there was
a great deal more which she did not say out of
respect for his sacred calling and his position
as her guest.

4 Do not repeat over to me all the stock
arguments,' she said quickly, as he opened his
lips ; ' I have heard them all ten thousand times.
I have the greatest possible regard for your
doctrines, which have satisfied Chateaubriand,
Lacordaire, Montalembert, Manning, Newman,
and yourself, but I have always failed to understand
how they did satisfy any of you. But
we will not discuss theology. Your poor Eose
proves, if she prove anything, that Heaven is
not in a hurry to reward its servitors. Perhaps,
after all, she might have been wiser if she had
married some Jeannot, all over flour or coal dust,
and had half a dozen children and fifty grandchildren.'


c There is common brute enjoyment all over
the earth,' said Melville, almost losing his
temper. 'It must be well that it should be
leavened here and there with lives of sublime
self-sacrifice ; one heroic or unselfish act raises
the whole of human nature with it.'

Nadine Napraxine took a cigarette.

1 There are ten thousand such acts in Eussia
every year, but they do not produce much
effect. Juggernaut rolls on, '

Melville looked at her quickly.

'You have a certain sympathy with the
people, though you deride my poor Eose.'

\ I do not deride her ; I admire her within
certain limits. Only, I ascribe her actions more
to ignorance and to superstition, whereas you
ascribe them entirely to a clear eyed devotion.
Yes ; I could have been a revolutionist, I think,
only all the traditions of the Platoffff and the
Napraxine forbid it ; and then, as I said to you
once before, I do not like Pallida Mors carried
about in a hat-box or a sardine-case. It is grotesque.
Without jesting,' she continued, ' I think
if I saw my way to do something truly great or
of lasting benefit, I should be ready to sacrifice
my life to it ; but there is nothing. If a Princess

T72

Napraxine joined the Nihilists, she would only
cause an intolerable scandal and set an example
which would be very injurious to the country
at large. Some day, Eussia will be in revolt
from one end to another, but the day is not
yet, and I doubt much that any good will be
done when it comes. The evil lies too deep,
in the drunkenness, in the lying, in the
bestiality '

She saw a look of surprise on Melville's
face, and continued quickly :

8 Do you suppose I never think ? I believe I
have read every socialistic writer from Rousseau
to Bakounine. They do not convince me of
anything except of the utter improbability that
any real liberty will ever be obtainable from
any congregation of men. Humanity is tyrannical
and slavish at once ; its governments are
created in its own likeness, it makes little
difference what they are called, they are
human offspring, so they are narrow and arrogant.'


'Poor humanity!' said Melville. 'It is
only we priests who can lend it wings

Because you say to it, like Schiller, " Cheat
yourself, and dream," ' she replied. ' But even

there how narrow still ! You say to each unit,
"Save yourself"'

'Well said the Englishman with good
temper, ' if every one sweep out his own
little chamber, the whole city will be clean.'

The city will be for ever unclean. You
know that as well as I do. Only, all Churchmen
can hide their eyes ostrich-like in the sand
of sonorous phrases. Your Christianity has
been toiling for eighteen centuries, and, one
may say, has accomplished nothing. It mouths
a great deal, but practical result it has scarcely
any. Its difficulty has always been that, being
illogical in its essence and traditions, it must
be restrained to words. Reduced to practice,
all the modern world would fade away, riches
would disappear, effort would be impossible,
and the whole machinery of civilisation come
to a standstill and entire disuse. You are as
aware of that as I am, only you do not like to
say so.'

She rose, amused at his discomfiture, and
lighted another cigarette. She smoked as
gracefully as a bird pecks at the dew in a rose.

'She is the only woman who makes me
irritable,' the courtly Grease Melville had once

said of her, and he might have said also, ' the
only woman who reduces me to silence.'

'Allow, Princess,' he said irritably now,
1 that whether we accredit Christianity with
it or not, the life of poor Eose in her wooden
shoes was much more useful than yours is in
those pearl-embroidered mules.'

'Ah,' she answered with a smile. 'You
are indeed worsted in your logic if you must
descend to personalities ! Certainly I grant
that ; my life is of a most absolute inutility.
It is, perhaps, now and then useful to my tailors,
because I give them ideas they would not have
without me. But to no one else. A qui la tante?
I arrived in this world without any option.
As Mr. Gladstone said when he was an Eton
boy, responsibilities which are thrust upon us
do not exact our obedience. It is the only
sentiment of Mr. Gladstone with which I have
ever been able to agree. Life is clearly thrust
upon us. We none of us seek it, that is
certain. If we are able to disport ourselves in
it, like butterflies in a south wind, it says much
in praise of the lightness of our hearts.'

Or of the levity of our consciences,' said
Melville, a little gloomily.

Conscience is only the unconscious cerebral
action of transmitted influence, is it ? Oh,
I have read the Scientists as well as the Socialists.
They are not much more convincing, if one
goes to them with an unprejudiced mind '

8 Does your conscience never tell you that
you have done any harm, Princess ? '

Oh, very often  a great deal,' she answered
candidly. ' But it does not tell me that I ought
not to have done it. I suppose my chain of
transmitted influences is not as strong as it
should be. Seriously,' she continued,  I do not
think hereditary influences are nearly sufficiently
allowed for at any time. Think what
my people were for ages and ages ; the most
masterful of autocratic lords who had no single
law save their own pleasure, and who, when
they helped slay a Tzar, were washing out
some blood-feud of their family ; pleasure, vice,
bloodshed, courage no doubt, rough justice
perhaps, were all their lives knew ; they lived
in the saddle or beside the drinking-horn ; they
rode like madmen ; they had huge castles set in
almost eternal snows ; they were the judge and
the executioner of every wrong-doer in their
family or their province ; it was not until Letters

came in with the great Catherine that the least
touch of civilisation softened them, and even
after Catherine they were amongst the slayers of
Paul ; for though they could read Bossuet and
Marmontel, their culture was but the merest
varnish still. Now, I come from these men
and women, for the women were not better
than the men. Do you suppose their ]even
is not in me? Of course it is, though I am
perhaps as civilised as most people.'

Melville looked at her with a smiles

Yes, certainly civilisation has in you,
Princess, reached its most exquisite and most
supreme development ; the hothouse can do no
more. You are its most perfect flower. Are
we really to credit that you have beneath all
that the ferocity and the despotism of a thousand
centuries of barbaric Boyars ? '

I have no doubt something of it,' said
Nadine Napraxine, whilst the dark velvet of
her eyes grew sombre and her delicate hand
clenched on an imaginary knout. ' I could use
that sometimes,' she said with significance :
Melville understood what she meant.

1 You can hurt more than with the knout,
Princess,' he answered.

Nadine Naprosine smiled. The suggestion
pleased her.

Then a certain regretfulness came upon her
face.

1 1 think I might have been tender-hearted
she said involuntarily and inconsistently, with a
pathos of which she was unconscious. ' I do not
know  perhaps not  I am not compassionate.'

She forgot that Melville was seated on a
divan near her in the great golden room of
Moorish work, whose arches opened on to the
marble court of the Lion. She thought of
her spoilt, artificial, frivolous childhood, spent
in great drawing-rooms listening to political
rivalries and calumnious stories and wit that
was always polished but not always decent ;
she thought how her keen eyes had unravelled
all the threads of intrigue about her, and how
her heart had scorned the duplicity of her
mother ; when she had been only eight years
old, she had known by intuition her mother's
secrets and had shut them all up in her little
silent soul with vague ideas of honour and
dishonour, and never had said anything to her
father  never, never  not even when he lay
on his deathbed.

And then they had married her to Plato
Napraxine as si bon garcon. ' Oh, si bon
garon, no doubt ! ' she had thought contemptuously
then as she thought now  only he
had outraged her, revolted her, disgusted her.
Her marriage night still remained to her a
memory of ineffaceable loathing.

She looked up to see the intelligent eyes of
Melville fixed on her in some perplexity.

She laughed and walked out on to the
marble pavement of the great court, above
which shone the blue of a northern sky ; beyond
its colonnades were immense gardens,
and beyond those stretched the plains like a
green sea covered with forests of birch and
willow.

'I think I should have liked to be your
Eose,' she said, as she did so. ' After all, she must
have been content with herself when she died.
A philosopher can be no more.'

A philosopher can rarely be as much,' said
Melville. ; He may be resigned, but resignation
and content are as different as a cold hand
and a warm one. My poor Eose was certainly
content whilst she lived, but not when she died,
for she thought she had not done nearly enough

in return for all the blessings which she had
received throughout her life.'

4 Now you cannot get that kind of absurdly
grateful feeling without pure ignorance said
Nadine Napraxine, a little triumphantly. ' It
would be impossible for an educated person to
think that misery was comfort ; so you see,
after all, ignorance is at the bottom of all
virtue. Now in your heart of hearts, you
cannot deny that, because, though you are a
priest, you are beyond-anything a man of the
world ? '

Melville did not dislike to be called a man
of the world, for he was one, and liked to
prove, or think he proved, that worldly wisdom
was not incompatible with the spiritual life.

At that moment Napraxine crossed the
court. It was the first of the brief hours
between sunset and sunrise ; there was a full
moon in the midsummer skies ; he was smoking
a cheroot, and talking with some young men,
neighbouring gentlemen, who had dined there ;
he looked big and coarse, and his face was
red ; his wife gazed at him with an intolerant
dislike ; he could have a grand manner when
he chose, but in the country he 'let himself

go ; ' he did not remember that he was in
the presence of the most inexorable of his
critics, of the most implacable of his enemies,
of the one person in the whole world whom it
would have been most desirable, and was most
impossible, for him to propitiate.

'Sachs turned the knife round and round
in the wolf throat ; he did, on my honour,
while it was alive ; we blooded him at five
years old, and the child never winked. When
the blood splashed him he shouted ! ' he was
saying audibly, with much pride, to one of his
guests, as he lounged across the marble court.
Sachs was his eldest son. He was relating
a hunting exploit, crowned by the presence of
his heir.

Nadine glanced at Melville with an expression
of sovereign contempt.

Butchers before they can spell ! ' she said,
with ineffable distaste.

Shall I venture to say anything ? ' he
murmured.

It would be of no use. Slaughter is the
country gentleman's god. Prince JSTapraxine
is just now wholly source in his character of
a country gentleman. It is perhaps as useful

as that of a Monte Carlo gamester. Only here
the beasts suffer  there, the fools. I prefer
that the fools should do so.'

The young men gathered about her ; Na-praise
approached Melville.

How does the Othmar marriage succeed ? '
he asked. ' I suppose you have seen them ? '

1 1 have been once to Amyot,' returned
Melville. ' You know Amyot ? A magnificent
place. They appeared very happy. She seems
to have grown years in a month or two.'

1 That of course said Napraxine, with his
loud laugh. ' She is very handsome. Why on
earth do they stay on in the provinces ? '

1 She is fond of Amyot,' replied Melville.
i Probably he thinks that as she is so young,
there is time and to spare for the world.'

4 Perhaps Nadine will believe now that it is
a love marriage ? ' insisted her husband, turning
towards her.

6 Did I ever say it was not ? ' she replied,
with a little yawn.

8 1 do not see, if it were not, why it should
possibly have taken place,' said Melville.
1 Othmar is lord of himself.'

With a slave for his master ? ' she murmured,

too low to be heard by the not quick
ears of her husband.

Melville heard, aud the doubt crossed him
whether Othmar might not have been the lover
of the Princess Naprosine, and the marriage
arranged by her, as great ladies often arrange
such matters to disarm suspicion ; for Melville,
despite the acumen on which he prided himself,
did not by any means wholly understand the
very complicated character of his hostess, in
which a supreme courage was to the full as
strong as were its disdain and its indifference.


She shook off the importunities of the
young nobles, who seemed rustic and tiresome
enough to a woman to whom the wittiest society
of Europe had seemed dull and too tame, and
strolled by herself through the half wild gardens,
which reached and touched the virgin
forests of the East. Her Kossack Hetman,
who never lost her from sight when she was
out of doors, paced at a respectful distance
behind her, but he was no more to her than a
big dog would be to others. The high seeding
grass which grew in the unused paths
screened him from sight.

As she looked back, the moonlit mass of the
vast house gathered a dignity and austerity not
its own by daylight, but to her it only resembled
a prison. She hated it : she would
have liked to raze it to the ground and make
an end of it. There were so many prisons in
Russia !

She laughed a little to herself, not mirthfully,
as she strolled through the intense light
of the Northern night, her Kossack folio wing-like
her shadow. A poor drudge like that
servant woman in Jura had been content with
her life, whilst she, the Princess Napraxine,
in all the perfection of youth, beauty, and
great rank, was often so dissatisfied with it
that she could have drugged herself out of it
with morphine from sheer ennui !

What was the use of the highest culture,
if that was all it brought you ? A whimsical
fancy crossed her that she wished her Kossack
would try and assassinate her; it would be
something new, it might make her life seem
worth the having, if somebody would try and
take it away. She was only three-and-twenty
years old, and her future seemed so immensely
,long that she felt tired at the very prospect of

it, as one feels tired at the sight of a long dull
road which one is bound to follow.

The eternal monotony of the great world
would be for ever about her. She had too
great rank, too great riches, for ambition to
present any prizes to her. To attempt to
thrust Plato Napraxine into high offices of the
State would have been as absurd as to make a
bear out of Finland a magistrate or a general.
He was a very great noble, but he would never
have wit enough even to play a decent hand at
whist, much less to conduct a negotiation or
sway a Council.

One might have had ambition for Othmar,'
she thought involuntarily, as his image rose
summoned from the sea of silvery shadows
around her ;  he had none for himself, but he
might have been spurred, stimulated, seduced,
by a woman he had loved. There would have
been many things possible to him ; the financier
is the king, the Merlin, of the modern world,
and might become its Arthur also.'

She thought with impatience of that summer
night, as it was shining on the towers and woods
of Amyot. She felt as if something of her
own had been stolen from her, some allegiance

due to her unlawfully transferred. He should
have had patience, he should have waited on
her will, he should have accepted her rebuffs,
he should have followed her steps through life
as the Kossack was following them through the
dewy grass.

Poor stupid Geraldine would have been
grateful to do so much, or Seliedoff, or so
many others. Othmar alone had dared to say
to her, ' I will be nothing or all.'

Therefore his memory abided with her and
moved her, and had power over her, and at
times an irritable gnawing sense of something
which might have been stole upon her. What
could that child give him at Amyot ?  white
limbs, clear eyes, a rose-bloom of blushes ; but
besides ? what sympathy, comprehension, inspiration?
what of the higher delights of the
passions ?

The thought of him irritated her. There
was a defiance, an insolence, in his assumption
of being able to command his destiny in independence
of herself, which offended her ; it was
unlike what others did. She was aware that it
was done out of bravado, or so she believed ;
but it was not thus that the fates on which she

VOL. II. X

had deigned to lay her finger had usually been
closed. Something even of contempt for him
at seeking such a refuge from herself mingled
with her irritation. It seemed to her weak
and commonplace.

1 Madame,' said the voice of Melville
through the shadows, ' is it quite safe to
ramble so late, despite the trusty Kossack and
his lance ?'

She turned ; her head entrapped in gossamer,
till he saw nothing but the cloud of lace
and the two dusky, jewel-like eyes.

4 1 was just wishing, almost wishing,' she
answered, ' that the trusty Kossack were of the
new doctrines, and would take advantage of
the opportunity to make away with his marina.
I am not sure that I would have called out ; it
would have saved one a great deal of sameness.
When my chocolate comes to my bedside I
always think of Pierre Loti's childish protest,
Toujours se lever, toujours se couch er, et
toujours manger de la soupe qui n'est pas
bonne ! " Our soup is good, perhaps. It is
rather the appetite which is lacking.' *

Your generation is born tired,' said Melville,
'Mine was happier; it believed in

the possibility of enjoyment  an illusion, no
doubt, but one which cheers life considerably.
Princess, I wish you would pardon me an
indiscretion ; you are always so merciful to me,
you make me over-bold ; but I have always so
much wanted to know whether a story that I
heard, of a winter's journey of yours across
Eussia, was true. It was in the newspapers,
but one never knows what is true there, and I
was in India at the time.'

She smiled. ' Oh ! I know what you mean.
Yes, it was true enough. That was nothing ;
nothing at all. I had all kinds of people to
help me. There was no difficulty of any sort.
It was amusing '

It was a very heroic thing to do,' said
Melville gravely.

Not at all,' she interrupted quickly.
There was no heroism about it. The Tzar was
always very kind to me. I had every assistance,
every comfort on my journey. You,
imaginative being, have a picture instantly
in your mind of me as enduring all the dangers
of poor Elizabeth in the French classic ; on the
contrary, I slept nearly all the way, and read
a novel the rest.'

x 2

All the same,' said Melville, ' no one but
yourself will deny that it was a very noble
thing to travel in November, the most hideous
part of the year, through mud and snow, right
across Russia, to have a few facts reach the
Emperor in their true aspect, and then post to
Tobolsk with his pardon, that a dying mother
might know her son was free before she

died '

Nadine Napraxine shrugged her shoulders
slightly, with a gesture of indifference.

'It amused me. I had a fancy to see
Siberia in winter. The pity was that Fedor
Alexowitch Boganof was an ugly and uninteresting
fellow  with plenty of brains, indeed,
which brought his ruin, but quite ugly, rather
misshapen, and blessed with five children. If
the hero of my journey had only been a fine
officer of cuirassiers, or a romantic-looking revolutionist,
the story would have been delightful,
but poor Boganof no one could turn into a
jeune premier; not even the gossips of
Petersburg. He was only a clever writer, with
a mother and a wife who idolised him. The
truth is, I had read his novel and liked it ;
that is why, when his people came to me, I

did what I could. Anybody who knew the
Tzar as well as I could have done as much.
As for going to Siberia  well, I went myself
because I have a profound distrust of Eussian
officials. Even an Imperial pardon has a knack
of arriving too late when it is desirable that it
should do so. It was certainly a disagreeable
season of the year, but behind strong horses
one does not mind that. Very soon Siberia
will have lost its terrors and its romance ; there
will be a railway across the Ural, and all chance
of the little excitements attendant on such a
journey as mine will be over. When the
Governor saw me actually in Tobolsk, he could
not believe his eyes. If his beard had not
been dyed, it would have turned white with
the extremity of his amazement. I think he
could have understood my taking the trouble if
it had been for a Thin ; but for a mere scribbler
of books, a mere teller of stories ! I told
him that Homer, and Ariosto, and Goethe, and
ever so many others had been only tellers of
stories too, but that produced no impression
on him. He was compelled to let Boganof go,
because the Tzar ordered him, but he could
not see any valid reason why Boganof should

not be left to rot away, brain downwards,
under the ice.'

She laughed a little at the recollection of it
all ; it had been called an eccentric hair-brained
thing at the time by all her world,
but she had taken Boganof back with her in
triumph, and had not left him until she had
seen him seated by the stove of his own humble
house in Odessa.

It had been one of the best moments of
her life  yes, certainly  but it did not seem
to her that she had done anything remarkable.
It had been so absurd to send a man to dwell
amidst eternal snows and semi-eternal darkness
because he had written a clever novel in which
the wiseacres of the third section had seen fit to
discover revolutionary doctrines, that when the
wife and mother of Boganof, knowing her influence
at Court, and having chance of access
to her through her steward, threw themselves
at her feet one day, and besought her compassion
and assistance, she had been surprised
into promising her aid, from that generosity
and sympathy with courage which always lived
beneath the artificiality and indifference of her
habits and temper. No doubt they had succeeded

because they had come upon her in a
bon moment ; no doubt they might have found
her in moods in which they might as well have
appealed to the Japanese bronzes in her vestibule
; but, having been touched and surprised
into a promise, she had kept it through much
difficulty and with an energy which bore down
all opposition.

1 She looks as frail as a reed, but she has
the force of a lance,' the autocrat to whom
she appealed, and who was at the onset utterly
opposed to her petition, had thought as he had
answered her coldly that Boganof was a dangerous
writer.

So were all the Encyclopaedia ; but the
great Catherine was not afraid of them ; will
you, the Father of your people, refuse to one
of those the protection which she was proud
to grant to Frenchmen? ' she had said to the
Emperor, with many another persuasive and
audacious argument, to which he had listened
with a smile because the lovely mouth of the
Princess JSTapraxine had spoken them.

It was a very noble thing to do,' repeated
Melville.

1 Oh, no,' she also repeated ; ' it amused

me. It frightened everybody else. The Tzar
was at Livonia unusually late ; there was first
to go to him from here ; when I reached
Livonia, he was everything that was kind to me
personally, but I found him terribly angered
against the poor novelist, and all his courtiers
were of course ready to swear that Boganof
was Satan ; poor innocent Boganof, with his
tender heart always aching over the sorrows
of the poor, and the mysteries of animal
suffering ! I told the Emperor that Boganof
was, on the contrary, a type of all that was best
in the Eussian people ; of that obedience, of
that faith, of that fortitude, which the Eussian
possesses in a stronger degree than any other
of the races of man. Where will you find as
you find in Eussia the heroic silence under
torture, the unwavering adherence to a lost
cause, the power of dying mute for sake of an
idea, the uncomplaining surrender of youth, of
beauty, of all enjoyment, often of rank and
riches, to a mere impersonal duty ? They are
all sacrificed to dreams, it is true ; but they
are heroic dreams which have a greatness that
looks fine in them, beside the vulgar greets,
and the vulgar content of ordinary life. I said

something to that effect to the Tzar. "You
fill your mines and prisons, sir, with these
people," I said to him. " Greece would have
raised altars to them. They are the brothers
of Harmonious ; they are the sisters of La3na."
I suppose it is wonderful that he did not send
me to the prisons ; I dare say, if I had been an
ugly woman he would have done ; he was, on
the contrary, very indulgent, and, though he
was hard to move at first, he ended with the
utmost leniency.

I was really quite in earnest at the time,'
she continued, now, with a little wondering
astonishment at such remembrances of herself.
c 1 urged on the Tzar the truth that, when
the intellect of a nation is suppressed and persecuted,
the nation " dies from the top," like
Swift. I think I convinced him for the moment,
but then there were so many other people
always at his ear to persuade him that universal
convulsion was only to be avoided by corking
all the ink bottles, and putting all the writers
and readers down the mines. Prince Napraxine,
by the way, was in a terrible state when he
heard of it all. He was away in Paris at the
time, and you may imagine that I did not telegraph

to ask his consent. Indeed, he first learnt
what I had done from the Russian correspondent
of Figaro, and took the whole story for
one of Figaro's impudent fictions. He went to
the bureau in a towering rage, and, I think,
broke a Malacca cane over a sub-editor. Then
he telegraphed to me, and found it was all true
enough ; he might more wisely have telegraphed
first, for the sub editor brought an action for
assault against him, and he had a vast "deal of
money to pay. He abhors the very name of
Boganof. Last New Year's day I had all
Boganof 's novels in the . Russian text, bound in
vellum, as a present from him ; I thought he
would have had an apoplectic fit.'

Her pretty, chill laughter completed the
sentence.

My honesty, however, compels me to confess,'
she continued, ' that for an unheroic boulevards
and a strongly conservative thin like
my husband, the position was a trying one.
He abhors literature, liberal doctrines, and
newspaper publicity ; and the story of my
journey for and with Boganof met him in
every journal, in every club, in every city of
Europe. The publicity annoyed me myself

very much. I think the way in which
journalists seize on everything and exaggerate
it to their own purposes will, in time, prevent
any action, a little out of the common, ever
taking place at all. People will shut themselves
up in their own shells like oysters. I
should have left Boganof to the governor of
Tobolsk, who was so anxious to keep him, if I
had ever foreseen the annoyance which the
Press was destined to cause me about him.
When I met the Tzar afterwards he said,
Well, Princess, are you still convinced now
that the ink-bottle contains the most harmless
and holy of fluids ? " and I answered him that
I granted it might contain a good deal of gas
and a good deal of gall, yet still I thought it
wiser not to cork it.'

4 Princess,' said Melville, with a little hesitation,
' one cannot but regret that a person
capable of such fine sympathy and such noble
effort as yourself should pass nearly the whole
of her time in sedulously endeavouring to persuade
the world that she has no heart and
herself that she has no soul. Why do you
doit?'

She gave a little contemptuous gesture.

I do not believe I have either she said.
When I was a tiny child, my father said tome,
" Douche, you will have no dower, but
you will have plenty of wit, two big eyes, and
a white skin." The possession of these three
things has always been the only fact I have
ever been sure of, really ! Do not begin to talk
theologically ; you are delightful as a man of
the world, but as a priest you would bore me
infinitely. One thinks out all that sort of thing
for oneself: ostensibly, I am of the Greek
Church ; actually, I am of Victor Hugo's creed,
which has never been able to find a key to the
mystery of the universe, " Quelle hi a donne la
bete effaced a Homme cruel ? " The horse
strains and shivers under the whip, the brutal
drunkard kicks him in his empty stomach :
God looks on, if He exist at all, in entire indifference
throughout tens of thousands of ages.
You say the patient animal has no soul, and
that the sodden drunkard has one. I do not
admire your religion, which enables you
placidly to accept such an absurdity, and such
an injustice, as a Divine creation. Do not say
that poets do no good ; they do more than
priests, my dear friend. I had been reading

that poem of Hugo's, the Melancholia, at the
moment when Boganofs wife and mother
brought their petition to me. It had made mein
a mood for pity. You know that is the
utmost a woman ever has of any goodness  a
mere mood. It is why we are so dangerous in
revolutions : we slay one minute, and weep the
next, and dance the next, and are sincere enough
in it all. If they had come to me when I had
been annoyed about anything, or when I had
had a toilette I disliked, or a visit that had
wearied me, I should have said " No," and left
Boganof in Siberia. It was the merest chance,
the merest whim  all due to the Melancholia'

'Whim, or will, I am sure Boganof was
grateful ? ' asked Melville.

Her voice softened : ' Oh yes, poor soul !
But he died six months afterwards of tubercular
consumption, brought on by exposure
and bad food in Siberia. You see, imperial
pardons may arrive too late, even if one carry
them oneself ! '

But he died at home,' said Melville ;
1 think how much that is ! '

'For the sentimentalists,' she added, with
her cruel little smile, but her eyes were dim

as she glanced upward at the stars in the
north.

Poor Boganof ! ' she said, after a pause,
with a vibration of unresisted emotion in her
voice. ' There is another problem to set beside
your Eose. The world is full of them.
Your Christianity does not explain them. He
was the son of a country proprietor, a poor
one, but he had a little estate, enough for his
wants. He was a man of most simple tastes
and innocent desires : he might have lived, as
Tourguenieff might have lived, happy all his
humble days on his own lands ; but he had
genius, or something near it. He believed in
his country and in mankind ; he had passionate
hopes and passionate faiths ; he knew he would
lose all for saying the truth as he saw it, but
he could not help it ; the truth in him was
stronger than he, he could not restrain the fire
that was in him  a holy fire, pure of all personal
greed. Well, he has died for being so
simple, being so loyal, being so impersonal and
so unselfish. If he had been an egotist, a
time-server, a sycophant, he would have lived
in peace and riches. Your Christianity has no
explanation of that ! Musset's " etre immobile

qui regarde mourir " is all we see behind the
eternal spectacle of useless suffering and unavailing
loss.'

She turned and drew her laces closer about
her head, and passed quickly through the
shadows to the house.

Melville in answer sighed.

That night, when Melville stood at his windows
looking over the immense flat landscape,
green with waving corn and rolling grass lands
and low birch woods which stretched before
him silvered by the effulgence of a broad
white moon, he thought of Nadine Napraxine
curiously, wistfully, wonderingly, as a man
who plays chess well puzzles over some chess
problem that is too intricate for him. The
explanation we give of ourselves is rarely
accepted by others, and he did not accept hers
of herself; that she was the creature of the
impression of the moment, It seemed to him
rather that hers was a nature with noble and
heroic impulses crusted over by the habits of
the world and veiled by the assumption rather
than the actuality of egotism. She, too, could
have been a sister of Lena, he thought.

What waste was here of a fine nature,

sedulously forcing itself and others to believe
that it was worthless, wearied by the pleasures
which yet made its only kingdom, cynical,
lonely, incredulous, whilst at the height of
youth and of all possession !

CHAPTEE XXXII.

Othmar, faithful to his word, remained at the
chateau of Amyot throughout the spring and
summer months, indifferent to the laughter of
the world, if it did laugh. He divined very
accurately that one person at least laughed and
made many a satiric sketch to her friends of
himself Jilant le par fait amour, and gathering
wood violets, wood anemones, wood strawberries,
beneath the shadows of his Valois
trees in glades which had been old when the
original of Jean Goujon's Diane Chasseresse
had been young.

Amyot seemed to him to suit the youth,
the grace, and the gravity of Yseulte better
than any babble of the great world ;  Amyot,
which was like a stately illuminated chronicle
of kingly and knightly history, which was as
silent as the grave of a king in a crypt, and
which was shut out from the fret of mankind
by the screen of its Merovingian forests.

VOL. II. Y

He was scarcely conscious that he lingered
in this seclusion from an unacknowledged unwillingness
to go where he would see and hear
of another woman ; he persuaded himself that
he chose to stay on in the provinces partially
because the tumult of the world was always
vulgar, noisy, and offensive to him, chiefly
because nowhere else in the world so surely as
in one of his own country houses could he be
certain not to meet the woman who had
wounded him mortally, yet whom he loved far
more than he hated her.

1 It is absolutely necessary that you should
be seen in Paris, and that you should receive
there ; it is absolutely necessary that you should
sustain your position in the world,' said
Friederich Othmar, with much emphasis as he
sat at noon one day on the great terrace of
Amyot. Othmar laughed a little, and shrugged
his shoulders.

Amyot is magnificently kept up  that I
admit,' continued the elder man. ' It is a
place that it is well to have, to spend six weeks
of the autumn in, to entertain princes at ; it is
quite royal, and was one of the best purchases
that my father ever made. But to bury yourself

here !  when the Kaiser comes to Paris,
to whom you owe by tradition every courtesy
'

The Othmars were never received at the
Court of Vienna.'

The Baron made an impatient gesture.

We are Parisians, but we are Croats before
all. Sometimes you are pleased to insist very
strongly that we are Croats, and nothing else.
If we are so, the Emperor is our sovereign.'

It is disputed in Croatia, which has never
been too loyal !'

'Croatia be ,' said Friederich Othmar,

with difficulty restraining the oath because
Yseulte was seated within hearing ; and he returned
to his old arguments, which were all
brought to bear upon the fact that at the approach
of winter Othmar owed it as a duty to
society and to himself to throw open the doors
of that vast hotel on the Boulevard S. Germain,
which had always seemed to him the most
hateful embodiment of the wealth, the unscrupulousness,
and the past history of his
race.

The hotel had been purchased from the Due
de Coligny during the White Terror by Marc

Y 2

Othmar for a nominal price ; and under the
reign of Louis Philippe, Stefan Othmar, deeming
it neither grand nor luxurious enough, had had
it changed and redecorated in the worst taste
of the epoch, and, in the early days of the
Second Empire, had farther enlarged and overloaded
it, until to his son it was as a very
nightmare of gilding, marble, and allegorical
painting, a Cretan labyrinth of enormous and
uninhabitable chambers, fit for such motley
crowds as cram the Elysee in the days of Grey.

It was one of the show-houses of Paris,
and had, indeed, many real treasures of art
amidst its overloaded luxury, but Othmar hated
it in its entirety, from its porte-cohere, where
the arms which the heralds had found for Marc
Othmar had replaced the shield and crown of
the Dues de Coligny, to the immense library,
which did not contain a single volume that he
cared to open ; an c upholsterer's library,' withall
its books, from Tacitus to Henri Martin,
clad in the same livery of vellum and tooled
gold.

Absolutely necessary to sustain your position
in the world !' repeated Othmar when his
uncle had left him. ' That is always the incantation

with which the fetish of the world
obtains its sacrifices. Translated into common
language, he means that as I have a great deal
of money, other people expect me to spend much
of it upon them. I do not see the obligation,
at least not socially.'

Do you desire the life of Paris ?' he added
abruptly to Yseulte, who hesitated, coloured
slightly, and said with timidity :

I should prefer S. Pharamond.'

1 S. Pharamond is yours,' said Othmar
with some embarrassment, knowing why every
rood of that sunny and flowering shore seemed
to him nauseous with sickening memories.
4 S. Pharamond is yours, my dear ; but I
scarcely think that we can pass this winter
there. There are tedious duties from which
we cannot escape ; to entertain in Paris is one
of them.'

An older woman would have perceived
that he contradicted himself, but Yseulte was
blinded to such anomalies  by her adoration of
him ; an adoration as intense as it was meek,
dumb, and most humble.

'I am so perfectly happy here,' she answered,
with hesitation ; ' but r

She was not actuated by the sentiment
which he attributed to her hesitation ; she
infinitely preferred the country to the city, as
all meditative and poetic tempers do, and the
little she had seen of the great world at Milloo
made her dread her entry into it in Paris. What
she wished, but lacked the courage to say, was,
that she perceived that the country did not
satisfy him himself. She was not so dull of
comprehension that she did not see the melancholy
of her husband, the listless indifference,
the unspoken ennui, which spoiled his years
to him, and left him without energy or interest
in life. She could discern the wound she knew
not how to cure, and Friederich Othmar in
his conversations with her had repeatedly assured
her that the vie de province stifled the
intelligence of a man as moss grows over the
trunk of a tree.

'I am so happy here,' she answered now
with hesitation, ' but still '

But still you are a daughter of Eve,' he
added with indulgence. ' My poor child, it is
quite natural, you are so young ; all young
girls long for the life of the world. It robs
them of their lilies and roses, it draws bistre

shadows under their eyes, it makes them old
before they are twenty, but still they kiss the
feet of their Moloch ! I do not think, though,
that you will ever be hurt by the world yourself.
You are too serious, and have at once too
much humility and too much pride : they are
safe warders at the door of the soul ; you will
not easily become a montaigne?

What is the difference ? '

6 In the world, when she belongs to it, a
woman crushes her soul as she crushes her
waist ; she is a butterfly, with the sting of an
asp ; she wastes her brain in the council-chambers
of her tailors, and her time in a
kaleidoscope of amusements that do not even
amuse her ; she would easily make the most
hideous thing beautiful if she put it on once,
and the most flagrant vice the fashion if she
adopted it for a week ; she has given the
highest culture possible to her body and to her
brain, only to spend her years in an ennui and
an irritation beside which the life of the South
Sea islanders would seem utility and wisdom ;
she has the clearest vision, the finest intelligence,
the shrewdest wit, only to set her ambition
on having a whole audience of a theatre

forget the stage because she has entered her
box, or the entire journals of a city chronicle
the suicide of some madman who has taken
his life because she crossed out his name on
her tablets before a cotillon '

He paused abruptly, becoming suddenly
conscious that he was speaking in no general
terms, and had only before his thoughts the
vision of one woman.

No, my dear,' he said kindly, passing his
hand over the shining tresses of Yseulte ; ' I
am not afraid that you will become a coquette
or a lover of folly ; you will not learn the
slang of the hour, or yellow your white skin
with maquillage; you will always be the young
patrician of the time of the Lady of Beaujeu.
You shall go to Paris if you wish, and do just
as you like there ; you must not blame me if
it do not suit you better than it suits those
roses which your foster-mother sends up in moss
from her garden.'

Poor child ! ' he thought, with a pang of
conscience. ' She has a right to enjoy any
amusement she can. She is young; the world
will be a play-place to her ; if she can make
for herself friends, interests, pastimes, I should

be the last to prevent her. Sooner or later
she will find out that she is so little to me.
She is content now because she takes kindness
for love, and because, in her innocence, she cannot
conceive how one's senses may be roused
while one's heart may lie dumb and cold as a
stone. But when she is older she will perceive
all that, and then the more friends she has
found, and the less she leans on me, the less
unhappy she will be. I will give her everything
that she can wish for ; all women grow
contented and absorbed in the world.'

So he argued with himself, but he knew all
the while that he was to blame in desiring that
sort of compensation and consolation for her;
and that delicacy of taste, which has over some
temperaments a stronger control than conscience,
made him feel that there was a kind
of vulgarity in thus persuading himself that
material gifts and material triumphs would
atone to her for the indifference of his feelings
and the absence of his sympathy.

It was something better than mere material
possessions and indulgences which he had meant
to give the child whose lonely fate had touched
him to so much pity under the palm trees of

S. Pharamond and the gilded roofs of Milloo.
But he dismissed the rebuke of this memory
with impatience. The world had so repeatedly
told him that his gold was capable of purchasing
heaven and earth, that, though he
found it of no avail for himself, he fell instinctively
into the error of imagining that with it
at least he could heal all wounds not his own.
She should have all her fancy could desire.
His experience of women told him that she
would be very unlike them if, in all the
pleasure of acquisition, emulation, and possession,
she did not find at least a fair simulacrum
of happiness. She would be one out of a
million  but if she were that one ? Then her
soul might starve in the midst of all her
luxuries and pageants, like a bird in a golden
cage that dies for want of the drop of water
which the common brown sparrow, flying over
the ploughed brown field, can find at will.
But he did not think of that.

He knew that it was unworthy to speculate
upon the power of the lower life to absorb into
itself a soul fitted by its affinities to discover
and enjoy the higher. He shrank from his
own speculations as to the possibility of the

world replacing himself in her affections. He
had honestly intended, when he had taken her
existence into his charge, to study, reverence,
and guide this most innocent and docile nature;
and endeavour, beside her, to seek out some
trace of the purer ideals which had haunted his
youth. And he felt, with remorse, that the
failure to do so lay with himself, not with her.

She remained outside his life ; she had no



sorcery for him. She was a lovely and almost
faultless creature, but she was not what he
loved. He realised, with bitter self-reproach,
that in a moment of impulse, not ignoble in
itself, but unwise, he had burdened his own
fate and perhaps unconsciously done a great
wrong to her, since, in the years to come, she
would ask at his hands the bread of life and he
would only be able to give her a stone.

She herself had as yet no idea that she was
not beloved by Othmar with a lover's love.
She knew nothing of men and their passions.
She had not the grosser intuitions which could
have supplied the place of experience. She
did not perceive that his tenderness had little
ardour, his embraces nothing of the fervour
and the eagerness of delighted possession. She

had no standard of comparison by which to
measure the coldness or the warmth of the
desires to which she surrendered herself, and
it was not to so spiritual a temperament as
hers that the familiarities of love could ever
have seemed love. But her nerves were sensitive,
her perceptions quick; and they made
her conscious that mentally and in feeling
Othmar was altogether apart from her ; that
in sorrow she would not have consoled him,
and that in his meditations she never had any
place.

When I am older he will trust me more,'
she reflected, in her innocence, and she had
been so long used to repression and obedience
that it cost her much less than it would have
cost most women of her years to accept, uncomplainingly,
that humble place before the
shut doors of his life.

She was too modest to be offended at a
distraction which would have been certain to
excite the offence and the suspicion of a more
selfish or self-conscious nature; and she was
too young to be likely to penetrate by intuition
the secret of that evident joylessness which
might well have excited her jealousy. It was

rather the same sense of pity which had come
to her for him in the weeks before her marriage
which grew strongest in her as the months
passed on at Amyot. He enjoyed and
possessed so much, yet could not enjoy or
possess his own soul in peace.

I do not think he is happy, and it is not
I who can make him happy,' she said once,
very timidly, to Friederich Othmar, who answered
with considerable impatience :

1 My love, the fault does not lie with you.
Otho, who believes himself, like Hamlet, out of
joint with his time, is in reality a man of his
times in everything ; that is, he is a pessimist ;
he has a mental nevrose, to borrow the jargon
of scientists ; he has so cultivated his conscience
at the expense of his reason, that I sometimes
believe he will be satisfied with nothing but
the abandonment of all he possesses ; and no
doubt he would have tried this remedy long
since, only he has no belief in any Deity who
would reward him for it. The misfortune of
all the thoughtful men of Otho's generation is,
that they combine with their fretful consciences
an entire disbelief in their souls, so that they
are a mass of irritable anomalies. The mirthful

sceptics of Augustan Borne, of Voltaire
France, and of Bolingbroke's England, were all
consistent philosophers and voluptuaries ; they
disbelieved in their souls, but they believed in
their bodies, and were amply content with
them. They never talked nonsense about duty,
and they passed gaily, gracefully, and consistently
through their lives, of which they made
the best they could materially, which is only
reasonable in those who are convinced that the
present is the sole sentient existence they will
ever enjoy. But the tender-nerved pessimists
of Otho's kind and age are wholly inconsistent.
They believe in nothing, and yet they are
troubled by a multitude of misgivings ; they
think the soul is merely a romantic word for
the reflex action of the brain, and yet they distress
themselves with imagining that the human
animal has innumerable duties, and should have
innumerable scruples, which is ridiculous on
the face of it, for, religion apart and Deity
denied, there is no possible reason why man
should have any more duties than a snail has,
or a hare. The agnostics of the present generation
do not perceive this contradiction in
themselves, and that is why they look so inconsistent

and so entirely valetudinarian beside the
robust Atheism of the past century, and are,
indeed, the mere malades imaginaires of the
moral hospital.'

'If I could only make him as happy as I
am myself,' she said again ; but she had not
the talisman which the woman who is beloved
in return holds in the hollow of her hand.

She is too young,' thought Friederich
Othmar, angrily. ' She is too innocent ; she is
a daisy, a dove, a child. She knows nothing
of persuasion or provocation ; she is not even
aware of her own charms. She waits his
pleasure to be caressed or let alone ; she
knows neither how to deny herself or make
herself desired. She wearies him only because
she does not know how to torment him. He
will drift away to someone else who does, while
he will expect her  at seventeen !  to be satisfied
with bearing him children and owning his
name ! '

A few months before, the Baron himself
would have emphatically declared that no
living woman could or should ever need
more. But his nephew's wife had touched
a softer nerve in him ; something which was

almost tenderness and almost regret smote
him when he saw the tall, graceful form of
Yseulte like a garden lily, standing alone in
the warmth of the sunset on the terraces at
Amyot, or saw Othmar, when he approached
after a day's absence, kiss her hand with the
calm and serious courtesy which he would have
displayed to any stranger, and turn away from
her with an indifference which all his deference
of manner and careful prevalence of thought
for her could not conceal from the keen eyes
of the elder man.

'He gives her his caresses, not his companionship,'
thought the old man, angrily, but
he was too prudent and too wise to draw her
attention to a fault against herself of which she
was unconscious.

A few months earlier he would have said
with Napoleon, ' Quelle nous donne ties marmots;
c'est le necessary.' But before this young mistress
of this stately place as she moved, in her
white gown, with her great bouquet of roses
in her hand and her clear eyes smiling gravely
on these men who so brief a while before had
been unknown to her, and now held all her
destiny in their hands, Frederick Othmar for

the first time in his life saw a little way into a
soul unsoiled, and began to dimly comprehend
some desires not wholly physical, some necessities
sheerly of the mind and heart. The impression
came to him  a purely sentimental one
for which he chid himself  that this child was
entirely alone ; more alone in her wedded life
perhaps than she would have been in the
monastic. She was surrounded with every
species of material indulgence ; day after day
her husband gave her new pleasures, as people
give children new toys ; if she had wished for
the impossible he would have endeavoured to
obtain it for her ; but Friederich Othmar twice
or thrice in his hurried visits to Amyot had
found her in solitude, and walking alone in the
stately gardens or sitting alone in some little
rustic temple in the woods, and the fact, though
insignificant enough, seemed to him indicative
of a loneliness which would certainly become
her fate unless she learned as so many other
women have learned, to console herself for
neglect by folly.

And that she will not do the old man said
to himself. ' She is a pearl ; but a pearl thrown,
not before swine, but wasted on a pessimist,

vol. 11. z

an ennuye, a delicate whom nothing pleases
except that which he cannot possess.'

He pitied her for what he foresaw would
befall her in the future, rather than for anything
which troubled her at that present time,
for although vaguely conscious of a certain discordance
and dissatisfaction in her husband's
life, Yseulte was, in her own, as happy as a very
young girl can be to whom kindliness seems
love and the external beauty surrounding her
appears like a lovely dream.

Othmar left her often to shut himself in his
library, to lose himself in his forests, or to go
for the affairs of his House to Paris ; but he was
always gentle, generous, and kind ; he was even
prodigal of caresses to her, because they spared
him words in whose utterance he felt himself
untrue ; and if the reflex of his own sadness
fell at times across herself, it became a light
soft shadow without name, such as seemed to
suit better than mere vulgar joys the silence
of the gardens and the grandeur of the
courts, where a life of the past, once so
gracious, so vivid, so impassioned in love and
so light in laughter, had been extinguished
like a torch burned out in the night. A riotous

or exuberant happiness would not have so well
pleased her nature, made serious beyond her
years whilst yet so mere a child, by the pains
of poverty, the companionship of old age, and
the sights and sounds of the siege of Paris.
The long, light, warm days of spring and
summer at Amyot, with all the floral pomp
around her, and the chateau itself rising, golden
and silvery in the brilliant air, historic, poetic,
magnificent, airy as a madrigal, martial as an
epic, were days of an ecstatic but of an almost
religious joy to her.

What have I done that all this should come
to me ?' she said often in her wonder and humility,
and Othmar seemed ever to her as a
magician, at whose touch the briars and
brambles in her path had blossomed like the
almond and the may.

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

With October days an accident as her boat
crossed the Loire water, when the autumn
currents were rolling strong and wide, brought
on the premature delivery of a child, who
barely breathed for a few moments, and then
took with him into darkness the hopes of the
Maison d'Othmar. The fury and the grief of
Friederich Othmar were so great that they far
surpassed the moderate regret shown by his
nephew, who appeared to him intolerably cold
and little moved save by his sympathy with
the sorrow of the child's young mother.

You would care, I believe, nothing if there
were no one to succeed you when you die ! '
said the elder man with indignation,

Othmar gave a gesture of indifference.

I hope I should care for my sons as much
as most men care for theirs,' he replied. ' But
the " succession " does not seem to me to be of
vital importance. If you would only believe

it, we are not Holienzollerns nor Gulfs, and
even they would be easily replaced, though
perhaps Moltke or Wolsey would not be so.'

Why do I, indeed, care so little ? ' said
Othmar to himself when he was alone. ' I am
neither inhuman nor heartless. I used to be
quickly touched to any kind of feeling ; but the
whole of life seems cold to me, and profitless.
I was dry-eyed whilst that poor child wept over
that little, frail, waxen body which was so much
to her ; would have been so much to her if it
had lived to lie on her breast. It is the most
pathetic of all possible things  a girl still sixteen
sorrowing for her offspring which has
perished before it had any separate existence ;
has died before it lived ; and yet, I feel hardly
more than if I had seen a bird flying round an
empty nest, or a brood of leverets wailing in an
empty form. I think she took my heart out of
my chest that day she fooled me, and put a
stone there '

He meant Nadine Napraxine, who remained
the one woman on the earth for him.

A woman of unstable impulses, of incalculable
caprices, of an infinite intelligence, of as
infinite an egotism ; absorbed in herself, save sofar

as her merciless eyes scanned the whole world
as players, whilst her fastidious taste found them
the poorest players, and judged them inexorably
as dunces and as fools ; a woman who had
treated the tragedy of his own passion as a mere
comedy, and had listened to it seriously for a
moment only the better to turn it into jest.

Yet the one woman upon earth whom he
adored, whom he desired.

For love is fate, and will neither be commanded
nor gainsaid.

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHATTO & WlNDUS's
List of Books.

About. The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d.

Latter Day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:
Carr of Carrion. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Confidences. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Alexander (Mrs.). Maid, Wife,

or Widow ? A Romance. By Mrs.
Alexander. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Evolutionist at Large. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook

of. Translated from the German

Of A. ROSENGARTEN, by W. Collects

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Hingston. Crown 8vo, 6d

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Hingston. With a
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
SB. 60.

Ashton (John), Works by:

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illusts., engraved in facsimile of
the originals. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illusts. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from the Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, 28s. [In preparation.

Bacteria. A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
over 100 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [In preparation.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations by
H. H. Walker. Post 8vo, cl.limp,2s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.), Works by :
English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Cr.8vo, cl. extra, 7s.6d.
Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp.  Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists : A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

B3chstein.  As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

B3erbohm.  Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1884. One

Shilling Monthly, Illustrated by P.
Macnab. Two Serial Stories are now
appearing in this Magazine: "The
Lover's Creed," by Mrs. Castel
Holy; and "The Wearing of the
Green," by the Author of "Love the
Debt**

Now ready, the Volume for November,
1883, to February, 1884, cloth extra,
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.; Cases for binding
Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number.

With Stories by James Pawn, F. W.
Robinson, J. Arbuthnot Wilson,
and others. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations,
Is. [Preparing.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:
A Ballad History of England. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s.
Songs for Sailors. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each ; or crown 8vo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. each.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

All Sorts and Conditions of Men':
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Crown
'8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

All in a Garden Fair. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Dorothy Forster. Three Vols., crown
8vo. [Shortly.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thomas) & his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With hoo Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra,
10s. 6d. [Preparing.

Birthday Books: 

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts., small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Bishop. Old Mexico and her

Lost Provinces. By William Henry
Bishop. With 120 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1883, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1884. With Illustrations.
Is. [Preparing.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1883, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1884. With Illustrations.
Is. [Preparing.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

The Paris Salon, 1884. With over 300
Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.
Demy 8vo, 3s. [Preparing.

The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page
Illustrations. Demy 8vo , 5s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Pro ofs, 218.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. Oblong 4to,

half-bound boards, 21s.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.
Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by :

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Savage Life. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3 s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
n numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :
Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers-luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers  Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories  Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy: A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
8vo, picture cover, Is. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Jest Briggs's Love Story. Fcap 8vo,

picture cover, Is. ; cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards. 2s.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Immediately.

Brewster(SirDavid), Works by:
More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.
The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.
Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin  Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Posts, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Browning.  The Pied Piper of

Hamelin. By Robert Browning.
Illust. by George Carline. Large
4to, illuminated cover, Is.

[In preparation.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Kathleen Mavourneen. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, Is.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. 8vo

picture cover, Is.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
Svo, cloth extra, 32s.

Buchanan (Robert) Works :

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
With a Frontispiece by Arthur
Hughes. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Undertones. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

London Poems. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

The Book of Form. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives : A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 8s.

The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Child of Nature: A Romance. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds. , 2s.

God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With Frontispiece by A. W.
Cooper. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Anna Water: A Romance. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

The New Abelard: A Romance. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Foxglove Manor: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo. [In preparation.
Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
[In the press.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With ly
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton. To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Lovett Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:

Juliet's Guardian. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Deceivers Ever. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Campbell. White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
George Campbell, M.P. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 14s.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections.
By Concur D. Conway,
M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 6s.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., own 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works :

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

C hatto & Jackson.  A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. Bon* ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 410, cloth extra, fts.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. "H. R.
Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth linrp,2s.6(L

City. (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [/ the press.

Cobban.  The Cure of Souls:

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (C. Aston. The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allsto*
Collins. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,

Collins (Mortimer & Frances,

Novels by:

Sweet and Twenty. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frances. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. j crown 8vo
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Village Comedy. Post 8vo, filust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6L

You Play Me False. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. cl

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :
Sweet Anne Page. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.
Transmigration. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra.
3s. 6d.

From Midnight to Midnight. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8va,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B Buckstonis,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.; or crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonina. Illust. by A. Concave.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My Miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. Concave, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poop Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. P With Illustrations by

S. L. Fildes and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G. Dl Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

Heart and Science: A Story of the
Present Time. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works
by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 lusts., 28s.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by :

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Nights at the Play: A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 62.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Copyright.  A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall.  Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Creasy.  Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians: with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 78. 6d.

Cruikshank (George) :

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A choicely-printed
Edition, with 37 Woodcuts and Two
Steel Plates by George Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
100 Large Paper copies, carefully
printed on hand-made paper, with
India proofs of the Illustrations,
price 36s.

Russians. Handbook of Heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Cycles. Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daniel.  Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet. Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Covenant.  What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre.  A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille.  A Castle in Spain.

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Our Lady of Tears. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Circe's Lovers. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. ct

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. 1 Nicholas Nickleby.
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

(Mayfair Library.) Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. Gel.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Immediately.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights.Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A-. Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Third Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With

Historical and Explanatory Notes.

By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,

Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Crown 8vo. half-bound,
12s, 6d,

Robson (W. T.), Works by :

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Poetical annuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

bran.  Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
y.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
sad Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7&. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

dramatists, The Old. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits,
6s. per Vol.

sen Johnson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including the doubtful,
ones; Vol. II., the Poems and
Minor Translations, with an Introductory
Essay by Algerian Chas.
Swinburne; Vol. III., the Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Oyer.  The Folk-lore of

Plants. By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,
M.A., &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7ff. St. [In preparation.

Edwardes(Mrs.A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Post 8vo, illust. bds.,
2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

iEggleston. Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
'boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.J Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Emanuel.  On Diamonds and

Precious Stones: their History.Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by :
Stories from the State Papers.

With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Eyes, The.  How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With
37 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth
Is. 6d.

Fairholt.  Tobacco: Its History
and Associations; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of 100 Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.
On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other:
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Fin-Bee.  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or, Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

Fletchers (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque.  Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua

One by One.

Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, Is.
A Real Queen. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

Free. Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell. One of Two: A Novel.

By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, frustra
ted boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Ofcfl
London Fairs.

Fry.  Royal Guide to the London
Charities, 1884-5. By Herbert
Fry. Showing, in alphabetical order-their
Name, Date of Foundation, Address,
Objects, Annual Income, Chief
Officials, &c. Published Annual ,.
Crown 8vo, cloth, Is 6d. [Inwiediatelju

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower.Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny. Post Svo, cloSJa
limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them,
By Tom Ferrol, Author of "The
Garden that Paid the Rent," &c.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated. Post Svo
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. 8vo, illus
te d cover, I s.; cloth him p, Is. 6fi.

Garrett. The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
8vc,illust.bds., 2s. ; cr.8v o, cl.ex.,3s.&L

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vp t
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. gilt edges, 7s. Si.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1884. One Shilling Monthly. A
New Serial Story, entitled "Phlllstla,"
by Cecil Power, is now appearing.
"Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., and "Table
Talk," by Sylvanus Urban, are also
continued monthly.
V 6 Now ready, the Volume for July to
December, 1883, cloth extra, price
8s. 6d. ; Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

Fop Lack of Gold.

What will the World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green.

The Braes of Yarrow.

The Flower of the Forest.

A Heart's Problem.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Dead Heart.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

Fancy-free. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W7s.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains  The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains  Broken
Hearts Engaged Sweethearts
Gretchen  Dan') Bruce  Tom Cobb 
H.M.S. Pinafore The Sorcerer The
Pirates of Penzance.

Glenny.  A Year's Work in
Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Godwin. Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Songs for
Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, tha
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi, St,
Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel
borne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown. F.L.S.

ii

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gordon Cummings. F.),Works

by:

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra.
8s. 6d.

In the Himalayas. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d. [Shortly.

Graham.  The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.; cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr
F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations
New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James), Works by

The Wilds of London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Low-life Deeps : An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot. The Earth and Man ;

or, Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth

extra, 8s.
New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 6s.

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.  Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 2co
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Diffuse. Paul
Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas. Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).  American
Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a. each.

Garth.

Ellice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Dust.

Sirs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.

Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is. ;

cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Fortune's Fool. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Beatrice Randolph. With Illustrations

by A. Fredericks. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. [Preparing.

heoXh (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cloth gilt, and gilt
edges, 6s.

iHefps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their Masters. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. cl

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

**eptalogia (The) ; ori The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

(Herbert. The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
an Introduction, by J. Wharton
Collins. Crown 8vo, bound in parchment,
8s.

!Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
boards, 18s.

esse - Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With hoo fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
34s. \ In preparation.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth him p, 2s.

Holmes.  The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth limp, with Ill stations, 2s. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brixton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hooks (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hooper.  The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Home. Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

i3

Howell. Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo.  The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Hunt. Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thorn croft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned.

Angelo. Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving (Henry. The Paradox

of Acting. Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe
sur le Comedies," by Walter berries
Pollock. With a Preface by
Henry Irving. Crown 8vo, in parchment,
4s. 6d.

Irving (Washington).Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

James. Confidence : A Novel.
By Henry James, Jun. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Janvier. Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Dark Colleen.

The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by :

Nature near London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Life of the Fields. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s. [In the press.

Jennings (H. J.). Curiosities

of Criticism. By H
Post 8vo, cloth limp

of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings.
2s. 6d.

Jennings (Hargrave).  The

Rosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent
By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Jesse. Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by :

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miner?,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, c loth extra, 7s. 6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 1 8s. ; or spar lately, 6s. each.

Joseph us,The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Kavanagh. The Pearl Fountain,
and other Fairy Stories. By
Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 63.

Kempt. Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kemp t. Post 8vo, cloth limp , 2s. 6d.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
or post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

Lamb (Charles):

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their
Poems, Letters, and Remains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
Reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :
The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages :
Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by :

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Clerical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Forensic Anecdotes Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Theatrical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by :

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous
Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited
by Henry Sleigh. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Life in London ; or, The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

There Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

lone. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Locks and Keys.  On the Development
and Distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-gen.
Pitt-Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh,
16s.



Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," "The Poets and
Poetry of Europe, "and "Driftwood''
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Lucy. Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.
By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:
A History of Our Own Times, from

the Accession of Queen Victoria to

the General Election of 1880. Four

Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

each.  Also a Popular Edition, in

Four Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra,

6s. each.
A Short History of Our Own Times.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra,

6s.
History of the Four Georges. Four

Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

each. [Vol. I. in the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens. With 12 Illustrations
by F. Barnard. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works

by:

Seraplon, and other Poems. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),
Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With 11
Illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)
of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt,
10s. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid, Engraved
by Swain. Square 8vo, cloth extra,
10s. Gel.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay.  Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Magician's Own Book (The) :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with

Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment,
8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; or,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.  Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo r
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of " Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "), post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Without Illustrations, post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With numerous Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. [Preparing.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mathew.  London Characters
and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,.
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine"and

its Author. With Translations by

H. H. Walker.

*7

Mayfair Library, continued

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By
Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea  Charity  The Princess 
The Palace of Truth Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen Dan'l Bruce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Per coeval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.


Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.



Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.

Leigh.
Jeux esprit, Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia. By

W. H. Mallow k.

Mayfair Library, continued 
The New Republic. By W. H. Mal-lock.



Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-

ley-penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-

mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.
Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca,
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Retold By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Medicine, Family.  One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Licentiate of the Royal College of
Physicians of London. Crown 8vo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.; posts, illust. bds., 2s.

M r. Dor i 1 1 ion. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small 8vo, cloth
him p, 2s. 6 d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management of
the Skin ; with Directions for Diet,
Wines. Soaps, Baths. &c. Small 8vo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Sir.
Small 8vo, Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin. Small svo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6c 7 .

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

MoncriefT.  The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirtek, A.R.A., Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Val Strange: A Story of the Primrose

Way.

Hearts.

The Way of the World. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Illust. by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moyr Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
5s.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Oliphant.  Whiteladies : A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Reilly. Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s. 

OShaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
.Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Cast I e-

maine's Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

Bimbi.
In Maremma.

Wands: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s.

Frescoes : Dramatic Sketches. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Bimbi : Presentation Edition. Sq.
8vo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges,
7s. 6d.

Princess Napraxine. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo. [Shortly.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascals Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed His Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

i9

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each :

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands

Walter's Word.

Halves. | Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than We're Painted.

By Proxy. 1 High Spirits.

Under One Roof. | Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

From Exile.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.eacb.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Kit: A Memory. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
The Canon's Ward. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by : Post 8vo, cloth Hip,

2s. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page

Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

Phelps.  Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar'' Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d. Published by
special arrangement with the Author,
and Copyright in England and its
Dependencies.

Pirkis. Trooping with Crows :

A Story. By Catherine Pirkis. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or,

A Dictionary of Dress  Regal, Ecclesiastical,
Civil, and Military from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third. Including
Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Countries of Europe.
Two Vols., demy 4to, half morocco,
profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
7 7s. The Vols, may also be had
separately (each complete in itself)
at 3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1870.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Play-time : Sayings and Doings
of Babylon. By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours, 5s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Volume. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Valentine: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Foreigners. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations.
Small crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A
Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific
Subjects. Cr. 8vo, cloth extracts.

Our Place among Infinities : A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, Is 6d.

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully-translated
from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.  Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo,
cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Readers Handbook (The) of
Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Richardson.  A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novels

by. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
each ; or crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d. each.

Peg Woffington. Illustrated by S. L,
Fildes, A. R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards. .

The Double Marriage. Illustrated
by Sir John Gilbert, R.A., and
Charles Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illustrated by F. W.
Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illustrated by George
Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated
by Helen Paterson, S. L. Fildes,
A. R.A. .Charles Green, and Henry
Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Readiana. With a Steel Plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

A New Collection of Stories. In

Three Vols., crown 8vo. [Preparing.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over
50 Illusts. Sq. 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.
50 Illusts. Sq. 8vo r cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With
58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer
and C. A.Vanderhoof. Square 8vo
cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.



Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Women are Strange. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d ; post 8vo, Must, bds., 2s.

The Hands of Justice. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

The Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. hoo
Large-Paper copies, printed on hand-made
paper, with India proofs of the
Illustrations, price 36s.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed,
price 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russell (Clark. Round the

Galley-Fire. By W. Clark Russell,
Author of " The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sala. Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson.  Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
by Henry Sanson. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
5s. per year, post free. It contains
Original Illustrated Articles by the
best-known Writers and Workers of
the day. A Monthly Summary of Discovery
and Progress in every department
of Natural Science is given.
Large space is devoted to Scientific
Notes and Queries," thus enabling
every lover of nature to chronicle his
own original observations, or get his
special difficulties settled. For active
workers and collectors the " Exchange
Column " has long proved a well and
widely known means of barter and
exchange. The column devoted to
' Answers to Correspondents " has been
found helpful to students requiring
personal help in naming specimens, &c.
The Volumes of Science Gossip for the
last eighteen years contain an unbroken
History of the advancement of Natural
Science within that period. Each
Number contains a Coloured Plate
and numerous Woodcuts. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XIX. (1883), at 5s. each.

Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or,
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

HankyPanky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The "Secret Out" Series, continued 
Magic No Mystery : Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions ; the Art of
Secret Writing; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
By Stream and Sea. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :
The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.
The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth
gilt, 6S.
The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.
A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 8s.

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c, with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including
his Dramatic Writings, printed from
the Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry of
Sidney, and Notes, by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (G. R.), Works by:

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Large
4to, Is.

Horrible London. Reprinted, with
Additions, from the Daily News.
Large 4to, 6d. [Shortly.

Sketches.  A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
 Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis : A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with.
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated,
6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch :
A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-corne.
Illustrated by J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

South-West, The New : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New
Mexico.Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg.
With 100 fine Illustrations and 3 Maps
8vo, cloth extra, 14s. [In preparation



Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Speight.  The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Sterndale. The Afghan Knife:

Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the
Cevennes. Frontispiece by Walter
Crane. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

An Inland Voyage. With a Frontispiece
by Walter Crane. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Virginius Puisque, and other
Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Studies of Men and Books.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian Nights. Crown 8vo,
cl. extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

The Silvered Squatters. With
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. John.  A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard.  Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illustrated by
Wallis Mackay. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s 1 6d.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
de St. Pierre. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer
; and a Frontispiece. Crown
Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations.
Edited by William Hone.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With a Map
of Suburban London. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chaste lard. A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also in crown 8vo,

at same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also in crown 8vo, at

same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,

Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

8vo, 16s.
Songs before Sunrise. Crown 8vo,

10s. 6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

12s. 6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

8vo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.
A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crown

8vo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Crown

8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Crown

8vo, 68.
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

A. C. Swinburne's Works, continued 
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Crown

8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,

cloth extra, 8s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Rotten. M e drum 8vo , cl. extra, 7s . 6d .

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos.  Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor (Dr.). The Sagacity

and Morality of Plants: A Sketch
of the Life and Conduct of the Vegetable
Kingdom. By J. E. Taylor,
F.L.S., &c. With Coloured Frontispiece
and hoo Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions
of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," "twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and
Passion." One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida.

Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

Thomson Season sand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (M.). A Fight for Life:

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in
Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:
The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 61.
English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Torrens.  The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. Torrens,
M.P. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

The American Senator.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann.

Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Land-Leaguers. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Like Ships upon the Sea. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
Mabel's Progress. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Anne Furness. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.



Trollope (T. A.).  Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

Van Laun. History of French

Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy 8vo,
cloth boards, 7s. 6d. each.

Villari.  A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Walcott. Church Work and

Life in English Minsters; and the
English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev. Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c, of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-fourth Annual Edition,
for 1884, cloth, full gilt, 50s. [Shortly.

The Shilling Peerage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1884).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,

short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1884). Containing a List of all the
Members of the British Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
&c. 32mo, cloth, Is. Published
annually.

Edw. Walford's Works, continued-tine
Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1884). In One Volume,
royal 32010, cloth extra, gilt edges,
5s. Published annually.
Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete

Angler ; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P
Hingston. With a Frontispiece.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The Wanderer's Library, continued 

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illustrations.


London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family
(1688 to 1847). Edited by Henry
Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By Charles Warren
Stoddard. Illustrated by Wallis
Mackay.

Warner.  A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :

Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 m. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price
2s.

Magna Charta. An Exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Westropp. Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and

Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill
Whistler. Seventh Edition, square
8vo, Is.

White's Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),
Works by:

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Wilson (C.E.). Persian Wit and

Humour: Being the Sixth Book of
the Samaritan of Jamie, Translated
for the first time from the Original
Persian into English Prose and Verse.
With Notes by C. E. Wilson, M.R.A.S.,
Assistant Librarian Royal Academy of
Arts. Cr. 8vo, parchment binding, 4s.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cavalry Life.

Regimental Legends.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Cr. 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards 2s, each.
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

At every Library.

Princess Napraxine. By Ouida.
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Dorothy Forster. By Walter
Besant. Three Vols. [Shortly,

The New Abelard. By Robert Buchanan.
Three Vols.

Fancy-free, &c. By Charles Gibbon.
Three Vols.

lone. E. Lynn Linton. Three Vols.

The Way of the World. By D. Christie
Murray. Three Vols.

Maid of Athens. ByJusTiNMcCARTHY,

M.P. With 12 Illustrations by Fred.

Barnard. Three Vols.
The Canon's Ward.

Three Vols.
A Real Queen.

Three Vols.
A New Collection of Stories by

Charles Reade. Three Vols.

[In preparation.

By James Pain.
By R. E. Francillon.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadows the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

I BY MORTIMER COLLINS.

Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears, j Circe's Lovers.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What will the World Say?
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow,
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow,
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust.
Fortune's Fool.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jim.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. | The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

Coals of Fire.
Val Strange.
Hearts.

Life's Atonement

Joseph's Coat.

A Model Father.

By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.

High Spirits.
Under One Roof
Carlyon's Year
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.



Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY E. C, PRICE.
Valentine.
The Foreigners.
BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Woffington.

christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. 1 A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party,

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path
The Two Dreamers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land Leaguers.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.
By IVAN TURGENIEFF and Others.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AWE.
Carr of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
he Golden Butterfly.

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

By Besant and Rice, continued 
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow of the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Miss or Mrs. P
The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY DUTTON COOK.
Leo. | Paul Foster's Daughter

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist.
Nicholas Nickleby.
BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY Pain FRI SWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green
The Flower of the

Forest.
A Heart's Problem
The Braes of Yarrow.


Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the

World Say?
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke

Ellice Question. 1 Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

3i

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thorn croft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open ! Sesame ! I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air.

Oats. ' Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued 
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.
BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

TwoLittleWooder*
Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Maremma.

BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of Clyffe

The FamilyScape-
grace.

Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

HumorousStories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private,'

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Woffington.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister andthe Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater.
Readiana.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. I Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
By FRANCES ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships Upon the Sea.
BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
An Idle Excursion.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, Is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author ot

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, I72, ST, JOHN STREET, E.C,

hbb

zD

I

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princessnapraxin03ouid

HI.

BY

OU IDA

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

ITonltroit
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

[AH rio-/tfs reservcff

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

Whex Yseulte lead recovered enough to travels
took her to the Italian lakes for awhile, to
restore her to her usual health and strength,
and distract her thoughts from what had befallen
her at Aniyot. With the beginning of winter they
returned, and made their home for awhile in
the great hotel of the Boulevard St. Germain,
Which he hated, and where he intended to
remain for the briefest time that could suffice
for the fulfilment of those social duties of which
Friederich Othmar never ceased to remind him.
There his mother's apartments had been prepared
for his wife, and every grace and attraction
that the art and the taste of the day could
add to them had been added, as though the
most solicitous affection had presided over the
preparation of them. All the preferences she
VOL. III. B

had shown in the country had been remembered
and gratified ; whatever she had liked best in
colour, in treatment, in art, in flowers, in
marble, had been consulted or reproduced in
Paris ; and even a large dog to which she had
taken a fancy at Amyot had been brought
thence from the kennels, and was lying before
the fire when she entered.

A much older and far wiser woman would
have been persuaded to believe, as she believed,
that in all this delicate "presence for her
pleasures and her preferences the tenderest love
had spoken. She could not divine the selfe
joach of her husband's conscience, which
made him sensible that he perforce denied her
so much that was her due, and made him proportionately
eager to atone for that denial by
every material enjoyment and outward mark
of affection and of homage. All those v/ho
surrounded him, all his acquaintances, his
household, and his dependents, imagined that
he loved his young wife. The person who was
in nowise deceived was Friederich Othmar.

'He is like a Sultan,' thought the old man
angrily, ' a Sultan who loads the women of his
zenana with ropes of pearls and emeralds as big

as pigeon's eggs, that they may not perceive
that he only visits them twice a year ! '

By the law of the attraction of contrasts,
there had arisen a mutual attachment between
her and Baron Fritz : the unscrupulous old
man, for whom as for Turret the whole
world was composed of shareholders, felt more
reverence and tenderness for Yseulte than he
ever felt in his life for anyone ; and she, who
only saw his devotion to Othmar, his admirable
manners, his shrewd wit, and his paternal kindness
to herself, grew fond of, and grateful to,
him, and was wholly ignorant of that mercilessness
and selfishness which would have
immolated all mankind to the service of his personal
ambitions, and to which all morality or
humanity appeared as absurd as they did to
Fouquet or to Talleyrand.

Friederich Othmar incessantly strove to
inspire her with his own passion for the House
he adored, and though he failed because she
was too thoroughly patrician in all her instincts
to easily welcome such impressions, and was
more apt to share her husband's disdain for all
such ambitions, he did succeed in persuading
her that the future content of Othmar himself

B 2

would depend on the measure of the interest
which he would take in those great fortunes
of which he held the key.

Understand this, my child,' he would say,
a man in old age never forgives himself for
the occasions which he has let slip in youth ;
and every man who in youth is desceuvre pays
for it heavily when age has come. Otho is a
clever man, but he has the sickness of his century
; he is indifferent to everything ' (' even
to you ! ' he thought impatiently). ' We call it
the malady of the time ; I do not know that
we are redit. It existed in Petronius Arbiter's,
but it had no existence in our immediate forefathers'.
However, you do not care for abstract
discussions ; you care for Otho. Well, let us
confine ourselves to Otho. Nowadays, he is still
a young man ; he thinks he can afford to despise
all things because he has strength, and health,
and every form of enjoyment accessible to him
and he is certainly rich enough to play at
cynicism all day if it amuse him most.'

He is no cynic,' said Yseulte, quickly.

Baron Fritz smiled. 

A little of Alcestis, surely ? You read
Le Misanthrope," even at your convent, I imagine?

My dear child, people always desire
the fate they have not. Alfred de Vigny, with
his sixteen quarterings, was always in rebellion
against the fate of the poor gentleman ; Otho,
one of the richest men in Europe, is always
rebelling against his riches as a chain and a
species of dishonour. Now, it is for you to
reconcile him to them ; it is for you to persuade
him that in the interests of his House
lie those occupations and obligations which will
not pall upon him as he grows older. I have
known men weary of love and pleasure, but I
have never known them weary of ambition.
Otho scorns vulgar ambitions, but there are
those which are not vulgar. In finance, as in
life, there is no standing still. In his present
mood he would be delighted if ruin were possible
to us ; it is not possible. Short of a
European war that should last thirty years,
nothing can harm us much. Still, no great
house can long stand without a chief who
cares for its welfare and honour. ' Like
Catherine 11. , "je lis I'avenir dans le passe."
A wise statesman has always the past of
the world spread out before him like an
ordnance map for his guidance. So may we

also, in the past history of such houses as our
own, see what has led to their ruin, and so
guide ourselves to avoid those evils in our own
case. Now, nothing has been so commonly
the cause of Izrach in financial establishments
as their being afflicted with imprudent or indifferent
members. Otho is not very often
imprudent, but he is entirely indifferent. Certainly,'
continued the Baron, with pardonable
pride, ' the Maison d'Othmar is too solidly
established, too greatly important to the public
life of Europe, to be easily imperilled by a
young man's foibles. Still, I cannot disguise
from myself the fact that when I am no more
there will be no check on his eccentricities, no
stimulus to his apathy. He will be ill served
because he will at once expect too much virtue
from men, and observe them with too little suspicion.
The ship is sound and safe, and sure to
have fair winds, but if the man at her helm be
reading his Horace or his La Bruyere instead of
steering by his chart, the ship may founder in
clear weather and calm seas. You understand
me?'

Metaphor was very unusual to him ; he only
condescended to use it for sake of making his

meaning clearer to the feebleness of a feminine
mind.

Yes, I understand quite well,' she replied,
with a little sigh. ' But I have no influence ;
he would think me impertinent; and I am
sure no one will care for the honour of the
House more truly than he.'

Commercially speaking, there are two kinds
of honour,' said Friederich Othmar. 'The
fantastic and visionary one he will always
maintain, but the practical one, which lies in
doing your utmost for all the interests centred
in yours, he will neglect, If I were to tell him
that we must collapse tomorrow, he would
give up everything, down to his pet edition of
Marcus Aurelius, to satisfy our debts ; but if I
were to tell him also how many financial
schemes and companies would fall with us, he
would only reply that the world would be
exceedingly well rid of so many scoundrels.
The honour is safe with him, doubtless, but
the welfare is not. I shall not live forever
; I shall probably only live a very
few years more. You must persuade your
husband that his true duties and pleasures
will lie in those ambitions which his fathers

have bequeathed to him. I know that he
and you would like to extinguish the House
of Othmar financially, and dwell at Amyct
with no remembrance of the world. That is a
lover's dream. My dear, simplicity and solitude
are impossible in our society ; a shepherd's
peace is not attainable by a man whom the
world claims. If I were to die tomorrow,
and Otho to remain as indifferent to his own
interests as he is now, all that I have done, all
that his predecessors have done, would crumble
away in ten or twenty years like so much soft
sandstone in a succession of wet winters. He
would not resent it now, but when he should
be fifty years old he would resent it bitterly ;
he would never pardon himself. It is from
this possibility that your influence must protect
him.'

She hesitated, with a blush upon her face.

I have no influence,' she said timidly.
He knows so much better, so much more
than I '

Obtain influence over him,' said the old
man curtly ; ' for if you do not, someone else
will. Nay, my dear, pardon me ; do not be
hurt by my plain speaking. Such men as

Otho are always influenced by women ; he
slioukl be so now by you ; he will be so if
you will leave off worshipping him timidly,
making him your law and your religion, and
realise that you are an exquisitely lovely
woman, with mind enough not to be the mere
toy of any man. You are very young, it is
true, but you have grown ten years in a few
months. You must remember that to be in
love is very agreeable, no doubt, but you are
not his mistress ; you are his wife. You must
not think only of the immediate moment, but
of the far future when he will not be in love
with you, ma helle nor you with him, but when
you may still influence him nobly and wisely,
and he may find in you his safest friend.'

Yseulte listened, with a little sigh.

It seemed to her as if all her happy illusions
were taking wing, like the group of amoris
which flew away from a weeping nymph on
the ceiling of her room, which had been painted
by Bourgereau. They where seated in one of
her own apartments, a very bower of primroses
and white lilac, panelled in the Louis Seize
style, with Bourgereau's charming children in
groups within each panel above the satin

couches. Between the curtains, there were
glimpses through the windows of the cedars
and weHingtonias of the gardens. Without, it
was a chilly winter's day, but within, it was warm
as summer, mellow with soft colour, fragrant
with innumerable flowers ; even to this great
hotel of the Boulevard S. Germain, which had
always seemed to Othmar the most oppressive
and detestable of all his many mansions, the
advent of Yseulte had brought a grace and
light and sweetness as of young and innocent
life, a charm of home to these splendid and
desolate suites of rooms. Her dogs lay on the
hearth, her voice called the peacocks in the
lonely gardens, her scores of Beethoven and
Schubert and Berlioz lay open on the grand
pianos. Even the look of the great bouquets
in the Japanese bowls and the jars of Saxe
and Sevres was different : her hand had added
a rose there, a fern here ; they were flowers
which were there because she loved them, not
only because they served for decorations
grouped by skilful servants as mere masses of
colour. The great house, sombre in its Bourbon
stateliness, magnificent in its architecture, but
oppressive in its too continual display of wealth,

was no longer ' une maison sans musique, ime
ruclie sans abeilles ; ' it had gained a charm
which was none the less perceptible because
undefinable and impalpable, as the scent of
the tea-roses in the tall Sevres jars. But
Friederich Othmar was more sensible of this
than was the possessor of the house and of her.
Friederich Othmar, who had lived for fifty
years and more without perceiving that he had
never had, or wished to have, a home, perceived
that his nephew had one and scarcely appreciated
it. Friederich Othmar himself became suddenly
alive to the pleasure of finding something home-ike
in that corner of her boudoir where she drew
a Japanese screen between him and the draught
from the windows, brought him his cup of
green tea, and listened with an interest fresh
and unfeigned to his anecdotes, his reminiscences,
and his counsels : but he found Othmar
there less often than he would have wished.

He will be glad of that coin clu feu some
day,' he thought angrily ; annoyed by a neglect
which Yseulte herself did not perceive. She
had been used to solitude ; she was neither
vain nor exacting ; she understood that everything
could not be in Paris altogether as it had

been at Amyot ; and if she gave a sigh to that
necessity, she bravely and tranquilly accepted
it. The great world was about her with its
demands, its solicitations, its tyrannies overtime
and thought ; she had little leisure for
meditation ; the Countess Othmar could not
escape the social obligations of her position or
avoid its ceremonies and its courtesies.

She remained much graver and simpler than
her contemporaries were ; she cared for none
of the noisy amusements of modern fashion ;
the world of pleasure seemed to her, on the
whole, a little vulgar, a little tiresome, astonishingly
monotonous, even in its feverish search
for the untried and the startling. But at the
same time she could not escape from its demands,
and their effects upon her, and the counsels
of Friederich Othmar incessantly reminded
her that she could best serve the honour of the
name she bore by making Europe admire and
praise her. It was a counsel which contained
the seeds of danger ; but he read her character
aright.

Voila une qui ne cascade jamais,' said
the Baron to himself in his tongue of the
Boulevards. He was infinitely proud of, and

delighted with her ; he gave her the most
magnificent presents, bought her the rarest of
jewels. He accompanied her constantly in her
drives and to the opera, and even in the visits
which she paid.

 It is Baron Fritz whom Othmar's marriage
has reformed I ' said a pretty woman, who had
long considered the silver-haired financier as her
own especial prey. He took a paternal pleasure in
the admiration which the rare patrician graces
of the girl awoke in that tout Paris which he
had long considered the lawgiver of the universe.


If you had been Marie Antoinette, there
might have been no revolution,' he said
jestingly to her. ' You would never have
flirted with Person, nor would you have played
at shepherdesses, or worn a mask in the
Palais Royal.'

I think I should only have thought of
France,' she answered.

AVhich would not have prevented you
from going to the guillotine, I dare say,' said
the Baron. ' Nations are the concentrated
distillation of the ingratitude of men. There
is only one thing which one can always count

on with absolute certainty, and that is, the
general and individual thanklessness.'

Nothing was further from his thoughts than
to cloud over the trust, confidence, and faith
of her innocent optimism. He spoke as he
thought and felt, and as a long experience of
mankind had taught him to do, without reflecting
that he dropped the bitterness of gall
into a fak and limpid spring, which had seen
nothing above its waters save the white lily-cups
and the blue heavens.

She will be robbed right and left endlessly
if she be not taught a little mistrust,' he said
to Othmar himself, who replied :

Let her be robbed of everything rather
than of her illusions. This is the only loss
from which we never recover.'

What an absurd idea ! ' thought the Baron,
who had never cherished any illusions at all,
and had found life exceedingly entertaining
and enjoyable without them.

The practical mind can no more understand
the regrets of the meditative one than a manufacturer,
spending his days by choice amidst the
roar of steam wheels and the ledgers of a
counting-house, can understand the artist's

anguish when he is shut up in a city garret
whence he cannot see a sunset or a sunrise.

The woes of the body, I grant, may be
too much for one's philosophy,' the Baron was
wont to say. ' With the gout, or neuralgia, or
sciatica, Seneca's self might fail to retain
serenity. But the sorrows of the emotions or of
the imagination are so entirely fictitious that
anyone, by the exercise of a little self-control,
may put them aside completely.'

What ! Even the losses of death ? '
objected some one once.

The Baron smiled:

Death cannot affect you very greatly
unless you have already committed an act of
unwisdom  that is, have already attached
yourself to some other life than your own.'

Then where is love ? ' said his interlocutor.

Where it has always been,' said Friederich
Othmar, ' chiefly in the senses partially in the
imagination. When we have both the senses
and the imagination under the control of our
temperate judgment, it cannot disturb us seriously.
In my youth, and even in my maturity,'
he continued, with complacence, ' I have dallied
with love as well as other men, but the moment

that I felt that any one passion was likely to
exercise undue influence upon me, I withdrew
myself from it. To break a chain is difficult,
but never to let it be forged is easy.'

He thought it his duty to put his young
favourite on her guard against all the deceptions
and delusions which the world prepares
for its novices ; he told lier much more than
her husband would have done of all the intricacies
and meanings of the varied life which
was about her, gave her the key to many of
its secrets, and the hidden biographies of many
of its personages.

'You are in the world, you must understand
the world,' he said to her ; ' if not, it
will be a mere labyrinth to you, and you will
be lost in it. You need not become a mon-dine
with your heart, but you must become
one with your head, or the mondaines will
devour you. It is not necessary that you should
gamble or swear or get into debts for your
petticoats, as they do ; but it is necessary that
you should understand the society of your time.
At Amyot you may be a young saint, as heaven
meant you to be, but in Paris you must be
able to hold your own against those who are

the reverse of saints, Otho ought to teach you
all this himself, but he will not, so you must
listen to rae. I have not been so engrossed in
the gold market all my days that I do not
know la Haute go mine down to the ground.
In my leisure I have always gone into the
world : the boudoir of a pretty woman is
always much more amusing than a card-table
or a pistol-gallery. Ecole des Femmes is the
one to which every wise man goes.'

He paused, with a consciousness that he
had better not pursue that theme.

My child,' he resumed, as the carriage
rolled down the Bois, ' you are not seventeen ;
you are in love with your husband ; you sweep
your conscience every morning with a palm-leaf
to make sure there is no little film of a
cobweb left in it ; you think life is such a
simple and beautiful thing that you have only
to get up and go to bed as the sun does. You
hear quantities of compliments, but you pay no
attention to them ; you are altogether as innocent
as a flower, and you are quite exquisite
like that  it suits you ; but, all the same, you
cannot go on like that for ever. Men might
let you, for we are not as black as we are

VOL. III. c

painted, but women will not. It is from women
that your sorrows will come, that your perception
of evil will come, that your enemies will
come. Satan, pardon me the Avoid, would
take off his hat to you and pass by on the
other side, for he, too, is not as black as he
has been painted. But women will not feel
what Satan would feel ; they are much more
hard to touch. It is women whom you must
try to understand ; you can analyse without
imbibing, as chemists do poisons.'

Must one analyse at all ? ' said Yseulte, a
little wistfully.

Such abrupt and familiar allusions to Satan
disturbed the awe in which she had been reared
at Faiel ; but she was growing used to the
perception that all the things which she held
most sacred were mere Mother Goose's tales
to the world in general, and to understand
why her cousin Clothed, who had her emblazoned
chair at S. Philippe du Eoule and
occupied it so regularly, and was so heedful
all Lent to wear the strictest mourning costume
without a shred of lace, had yet not a grain
of real religion in her. She began to comprehend
what Blanchette had meant by all her

rapturous felicitations, and sometimes the proud
and austere young soul of her was humiliated
to think that these mere material pleasures
should have any attraction for her : she felt
that her grandmother's ascetic and haughty
teachings would have condemned such joys as
mundane and vulgar. But the pleasure of them
was there, nevertheless, and she was too honest
in her self-analysis to dissimulate before her
conscience. Unworldly as temperament and
education alike made her, Yseulte was feminine
enough and accessible enough to such vanities
for all the possessions into which she entered
to amuse and please her with their novelty and
the sense of power which they gave. She was
but a child in years, and the large households
deferential to her slightest word, the grand
equipages ready for her whim and fancy, the
beautiful horses which bore her with the fleetness
of the wind, the vast houses through which
she could wander, conscious that she was the
mistress of them all, the innumerable beauties
of art which they contained, the caskets and
coffers full of jewels and baubles, all these
things beguiled her time and gratified that
pride which a very young girl always feels in

the sudden assumption of womanhood. She
began to understand why all her companions at
Faiel had thought her so fortunate. Her serious
and spiritual nature made her feel a little
ashamed at finding so much interest in such
earthly treasures ; in her self-examination she
reproved herself, and almost contemned herself.
But she was too young not to take such
irresistible delight in all these tidings as a
child takes in butterflies or poppies; it was
delightful to say * I wish,' and see her wishes
accomplished as by magic ; it was charming to
give away right and left, as out of a bottomless
purse ; it was amusing to command, to
confer, to be regarded as the source of all
favours and all fortune, as the people of Amyot
and the household of Paris regarded her. Intime,
the delicacy of her taste, the seriousness
of her intelligence, might probably make these
possessions and privileges pall on her ; in time
she would see sycophancy where she now saw
only devotion, and grow weary of a loyalty
only rooted in self-interest ; but, at the onset,
life was to her like a fairy story her empire
was one on which the sun never set and in
which the spring-time never waned.

Othmar never said one Avoid which could
have served to disenchant lier. Conscious that
he could not give her all the singleness of love
which was her due, he strove to atone for any
wrong he did her so by multiplying around her
every physical gratification, and giving her an
unlimited power of self-indulgence.

In this new life she was like a child who
stands amidst the bewilderment of its crowd of
New Year presents ; sometimes she thought of
herself as she had been six months before, sitting
in the shadow of the stone cloisters at
Faiel, in her dust coloured convent frock, with
the blue ribbon of merit crossing her breast
and some holy book open on her hands, with
a kind of wondering pity and strangeness, and
a sense of being herself far, very far, away from
any kinship with that sad grey figure.

That so little of egotism was aroused in her
in this hot-house existence which she led, was
due to the generosity and simplicity of her
instincts, on which the contagion of worldly
influences had little power. To send a silver
crucifix to Faiel, or a piece of fine lace to
Nicolee, still gave her greater pleasure than to
wear her own great diamonds or see the

crowds in the Champs Elysees look after her
carriage with its liveries of black velvet and
white satin.

Meanwhile she had the natural feeling of
every unselfish and generous nature, that her
life was not full enough of thought for others.
It was difficult for her at her age to know what
to do, so as to carry out those theories of self-sacrifice
which training and temperament alike
made a religion to her.

Friederich Othmar, when he discovered
this, told her, with some impatience, that the
House of Othmar always did what was expected
of it in this respect, and that its women
had no occasion to trouble their heads with
such matters.

Wherever we have been located we have
always been good citizens,' he said, with truth.
We have always borne our due share of public
expenditure or public almsgiving ; perhaps
more than our due share. Myself, , I believe
that all that sort of charity is a vast mistake.
It is intended as a sop to the wolves, but you
cannot feed wolves on sops. They will always
want your blood, however they may lick up
your mess.'

Yseulte remembered that S. Francis had
proved that even wolves may be tamed into
affection and usefulness ; but though she believed
firmly in that legend, she hesitated to
put it forward, even as an allegory, as evidence
against the arguments of the Baron. She did
not lack courage, nor even that truest courage,
the courage of opinion, but she had been reared
in the old traditions of high breeding, which
make contradiction a vulgarity, and, from the
young to the old, an offence.

I hope you will not make yourself into a
sort of Judith Montefiore,' continued the Baron
irritably. ' We are not Jews. Jews must do
that kind of thing to get themselves tolerated.
We could forgive them the Crucifixion, but we
cannot forgive them their percentage. Though
we are not Jews, Otho has already done some
Quixotic things in the Montefiore fashion. I
hope you will not encourage him to continue
them.'

Tell me what they were,' she said, with
the light in her eyes and the colour in her
face.

Not I,' said the Baron ; ' I much prefer to
see him smoking a Londres at the Jockey.'

Had ho ever any very great sorrow ? ' she
ventured to ask.

None, my dear, but what he chose to
make for himself,' replied Friederich Othmar,
with contempt. ' Do you remember Joubert's
regret that he coukl not write his thoughts on
the bark of trees by merely looking at them ?
well, Otho's griefs are much as baseless.
As if,' he added,  as if there were any real
grief in the world,  except the gout ! '

He is like Hermann, like Ariel,' she
said timidly. She had read passages in the
volumes of those dreamy and isolated thinkers
in the library of Amyot. Friederich Othmar
shrugged his shoulders ; those names signified
to him the very lowest deeps of human ineptitude
and folly.

Men who were so afraid of disappointment
and disillusion that they would allow themselves
to enjoy nothing ! It would be as
reasonable to let oneself die of starvation as a
preventive of dyspepsia ! Such men do not
think ; they only moon. The cattle that lie
and graze under the trees have meditations
quite as useful. My child,' he added, ' would
you be wise or foolish if you threw all your

diamonds into the river in anger because they
were not stars ? That is what your husband
does with his life. You must learn to persuade
him that the stars are unattainable, and that
the diamonds represent a very fair and fruitful
kingdom if not the powers of the air.'

Yseulte sighed wistfully. She vaguely felt
that it was not within her means to reconcile
him with the world and fate ; she had not the
maoris wand.

I am always in dread,' continued the
Baron, ' that you, with your religious ideas,
and he, with his impatience of his position, will
do something extraordinary and Quixotic ; will
turn S. Pharamond into a maison do santa,
or this hotel into a lazar-house for cancer. I
shall never be surprised at any madness of that
sort.'

Yseulte sighed a little.

But, there is the misery of the world all
around us,' she ventured to say ; ' if we could
alleviate it, would it not be worth any sacrifice
? '

My dear,' said Baron Fritz, ' when
Napoleon gave the opium at Jaffa, he did more
to alleviate suffering than all the philanthropists

have ever done. Yet it lias been always
brought against him as his worst action. I
went once, out of curiosity, to see the Incurables
at the hospital of la Salpetriere. Well, if false
sentiment did not prevent the treatment k la
Jaffa taking place there, an infinitude of hideous
suffering and of hideous deformity would be
mercifully ended. But the world is so sentimental
that it will send several hundred thousand
of young and healthy men to endure all
kinds of tortures in war for a question of frontier,
or a matter of national etiquette, but it
esteems it unlawful to kill idiots or drug to
death incurables cursed with elephantiasis or
leprosy.'

Yseulte's clear eyes grew troubled ; these
views of life were perplexing to her. At Ariel
all such contradictions had been simply accepted
as ordained under one unquestioned and divine
law; the conversation of Friederich Othmar
depressed and bewildered her, but she could
perceive its reason. It made her reflect ; it
made her more of a woman, less of a child.
He thought that was for the best. If she were
not educated in some worldly knowledge, the
world would make an easy prey of her.

Otho treats her as if she were an ivory
madonna who would remain aloof on an altar
all her days,' he said to a woman he knew.
On the contrary, she is a beautiful creature,
about whom all the world will buzz and sting
like bees about a lily. She must be taught not
to throw away her honey. She is just now
in the clouds ; she is very much in love with a
man who is not in love with her ; she is full of
ideals and impossible sentiments. She is half a
child, half an angel ; but to hold lier own in
the world she must be something else  not so
angelic and not so childish,  and she must
learn to esteem people at their value, which is
for the most part very small. It would be
even well if she could see Otho as he is ;
she would take life more easily. She would
not be so likely to fall headlong from a
heaven of adoration into a stone well of disillusion.
Truths live at the bottom of these
wells, no doubt, but they are not agreeable, and
they give a shock to sensitive people. A woman
is prettier when she is sensitive. It is like piety
or charity  it is an essentially feminine ornament,
but it is not a quality which wears well.'

His friend laughed.

Do you think Othmar will thank you for
so educating his wife ? '

He has never thanked me for anything
that I have done,' he replied. ' But that does
not prevent me from doing what I consider is
my duty, or is most wise.'

'Say wisdom,' returned the lady. 'That
suits you better than duty. Duty is ridiculous
if you do not let le hon Dieu pose behind it.'

I know people say so,' answered the Baron ;
but it is only an idea. In practical life
agnostics and disbelievers of every sort make
just as good citizens as the petits.'

With the second week of December there
was a great social event in Paris. The HOtel
Othmar was opened to the world. ' The gates
of Janus unclose,' said one who deemed himself
a wit in allusion to a war, then in embryo, into
whose conception and gestation the gold of the
Othmar was considered to enter largely.

The Boulevard S. Germain and all its
approaches were like rivers of light, and the
sound of carriage wheels was like the roll of
artillery. ' Tout Paris ' flocked there, and
even the Faubourg disdained not to pass
through those immense gates of gilded bronze,

which were nicknamed of Janus, since the
mistress of the salons within was by birth in-con
testily a Comtesse de Alone.

Tiens, ties, tiens ! ' murmured Aurore
de Vannes. ' Is it possible for twelve months
to have so changed a Villette into a goddess !
Eeally, we were all wrong, and Othmar was
right. We all thought her a pauvrettey to be
put away in a holy house ; he had the sense to
see that she would become superb, and would
set him right with all the Faubourg. The
Faubourg was always well inclined to him, because
his grandmother was a de Soissons-Valette,
but his marriage has made him one of them ; he
is definitely placed for ever. Eeally, I never
gave him credit for so much foresight when he
sent that ivory casket. I thought it was only
a caprice.'

Othmar cares not a straw for the Faubourg,'
said her. husband, out of the pure spirit
of contradiction. ' He will never give his
millions to carry on a Holy War or restore the
throne. He is more likely to dream of a great
Western empire with its capital at the Golden
Horn. He is a Slavophile.'

He is wholly indifferent to politics ; it is

Baron Fritz who is the political conspirator,'
returned the Duchesse. ' Otho is a mere
dreamer, and he used to be a discontented
one. Perhaps he is not so now.'

He does not look especially happy ; she
does. I confess I should be sorry for him to
become contented ; the contemplation of his
discontent has always reconciled me with
having nothing myself,' said a great diplomatist,
whose debts were as considerable as his
talents.

If he be not contented ' began the

Due, and paused, conscious that for him to say
anything except a jest of any marriage under
the sun would appear supremely ridiculous to
his companions. Yet his admiration for Yseulte
was not dormant and took a still warmer
character as he saw her in the grande tenue
of a woman of the work, with the Othmar
diamonds, long famous and long unseen, on
her fair hair and her Avliite breast.

She has too many jewels for such a child,'
he said irritably. ' She is covered with them
like an Indian idol. That is so like a financier's
love of display ! '

I dare say he has given them to her as

you give toys to a child,' replied the diplomatist.
' Othmar has no faults of display.
What has been almost ridiculous in him has
been a simplicity of taste not in accord with
his millions. But his wife is so very handsome
that she may well betray him into some
vanities.'

Twelve months had truly made in her that
almost magical transformation which passion
can cause in a very young and innocent girl
who, from ' entire seclusion and absolute ignorance,
is suddenly thrown into the arms of a
man whom she has scarcely seen, yet timidly
adores. She had lost her extreme spirituality
of expression, but she had gained a thousandfold
in other ways. Her form had developed,
her whole person had become that of a woman
instead of a child ; she was many years older
than she had been one short year before, when,
in her little quiet chamber under the woods of
Faiel, she had only thought of love as a mystical
religious emotion, and of herself as the betrothed
of Christ.

She filled her place, and did the honours
of her house with a calm grace which had
nothing of the hesitation or the awkwardness

of youth. He had told her what to do, and
she did it with perfect ease, and that dignity
which had so become her when she had curtsied
to Melville as a little child in the old,
dusky house in the He Saint-Louis. In
manner she might have been a Queen of
France for hive-and-twenty years. It was only
in the unworn transparency of the fair skin,
beneath which, the blood came and went so
warmly, the slenderness of the lines of her
form, the childlike naivete of her smile, that
her exceeding youthfulness was still revealed.

She made no single error ; she said little,
but she said always what was needful and
becoming ; she received each one of her guests
with the phrase that pleased them, with the
observances that were due to them ; there was
no hesitation or awkwardness in her. Even
women who watched her, as her cousin did,
with a malicious wish to find her at fault somewhere,
were forced to confess to themselves that
she bore herself admirably. If she had a defect,
it was that she appeared a little cold. She
was always exquisitely courteous ; she was
never familiar.

She has the manner of the last century,'

said Madame de Yannes, ' of the last century,
before the women of Marie Antoinette rode
donkeys and milked cows.'

To see that baby who six months ago had
never spoken to any man except her confessor,
and never worn any ornament except her convent
medal, receiving sovereigns and princes
and ambassadors, de puissance a puissance and
wearing diamonds which were ten times bigger,
finer, and in greater profusion than her own,
made her very angry, and yet made her laugh.
She had seen many transformations of villette
into great ladies, but none quite so rapid, so
striking, or so complete as that of her young
cousin into the mistress of the Hotel Othmar.

I wish Kadine Xapraxine were here this
evening,' she thought with that good-humoured
malice which enjoys a friend's annoyance without
meaning any real unkindness.

All Paris will talk of you' ball and much
more of you tomorrow,' said de Vannes
during the evening to his wife's cousin. ' Does
that please you as much as it pleases most of
them ?'

I shall not think about it,' replied Yseulte,
simply.

VOL. Il D

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

But I imagine you read the journals ?'

No, never.'

Never! ' lie echoed, incredulously. ' Why
is that ?'

She hesitated, then answered with a little
blush : ' He has told me not ; he thinks they
are foolish.'

Othmar ? ' asked the Due, with a laugh.
'Do you obey him as you did the Mother
Superior ? '

Why not ? ' said Yseulte gently, but coldly.

Why not ! ' he said irritably. ' Well,
because you should begin as you wish to go on ;
you will not care for that state of servitude
long; it would be better never to accustom
him to it.'

Excuse me, my cousin, I see Madame de
Tavernes is looking for me,' said Yseulte, as
she went to speak with a Duchesse whose
genealogical tree mounted to the remote ages
before the long-haired kings ; a stately and
powdered person who had issued from the retirement
in which she usually lived to honour
the first great entertainment of the daughter of
Gui de Alone.

The Due was rebuffed and annoyed.

She has learned her riposte already,' he
thought,  and she has not forgotten the locket.
I wonder if he care ? If he want to be free
himself, he had better put her on a course of
petits journaux at once. There is no recipe
like that for corrupting the mind and debasing
the taste. How handsome she is ! What a
lovely face  what a lovely form !  and only
seventeen even now ! She will be in perfect
beauty for the next ten years. If he be nota
very ardent or a very assiduous husband, he
will not be able to keep all that to himself ; he
will have many rivals, and he will be sure to
be unfaithful himself:  then she will read the
journals and learn how women console themselves.'


At five o'clock that morning her rooms
were empty, her guests were gone, and her
woman had undressed her, and put on hera
negligee of white silk ; her hair was unloosened
and fell behind her like a cascade
of gold ; all the great jewels were strewn on
the table near ; she was looking at her own
reflection in the large oval silver-framed mirror
before her ; she smiled a little as she did so ;
her eyes were luminous, her cheeks were

D 2

flushed ; she was sensible of no fatigue, she
was only elated with her own triumphs. She
had had a girlish pleasure in receiving her
cousins in that magnificent house ; she had
had an innocent triumph in showing how well
she could fill the part of a woman of the
world ; she felt like a child who has played a
queen's part in some pageant, and played it
well ; something of the insidious charm of the
world had begun to steal on her ; something of
its vanity and of its rivalry had begun to attract
her ;  very little, for her nature was too proud,
too pure, and too serious to yield easily to these
temptations, but something nevertheless. Only
as yet her one dominant thought was of him in
it all. Had he also been content ; had there
been nothing; that he could have desired otherwise
?

She turned with a smile, half timid still, ashe
knocked at the door and entered her chamber.
Her attendants withdrew at a sign from
him ; he took her in his arms and kissed her.

I thank you for all your triumphs, dear,'
he said kindly. ' They are mine.'

Did I really do well ?' she said doubtfully,
but joyfully.

Perfectly, perhaps almost too well ; Paris
will talk too much of you.'

I forgot nothing ? ' she asked, still
anxiously.

You forgot nothing, and you looked 
much too beautiful for men quickly to forgive
me ! No, dear, I do not flatter you ; flattery
would be absurd from me to you ; I tell you
the simple truth.'

I am glad,' she said simply, ' for I have
nothing else to reward you with for all you
have given to me.'

She spoke shyly, for she was always in awe
of him a little. Her arm, uncovered to the
shoulder as the loose folds of the sleeve fell
away from it, stole timidly about his throat ;
in all her caresses there was the hesitation of a
proud and delicate nature blent with the longing
of an ardent love. Habit had not familiarised
her with the relation in which he stood to
her ; the brutalising intimacy of marriage had
not dwarfed or dulled her ideal and adoration
of him. He was still much less her lover than
her lord.

Othmar took the bright gold of her heavy
hair in his hand, and drew it through his finders.

On chasse de race,' he said, with a smile.
You receive a great crowd as if you had been
reared in a court from your babyhood.'

You told me what to do,' she answered
simply. ' It seems very easy ; besides, everyone
was so extremely kind.'

The kindness of society,' thought othman,
' the kiss of Judas ! '

But he did not say so. Let her learn for
herself what it was worth, he thought ; the
knowledge would come soon enough of itself.

Yseulte's face grew grave as she sat lost in
thought.

I do not think it is right to care for this
sort of thing,' she said, with hesitation. ' It is
only a sort of vanity. And then all these
diamonds and these great pearls  they say they
are worth millions  I do not like to wear
them whilst there are so many without clothes
or food of any kind ; one knows that there is
so much misery all about us here in Paris. Is
it right, do you think, to enjoy oneself in this
kind of way? I seem to remember nothing
but myself all the day long '

Othmar smiled and sighed.

Enjoy, my child, while you can ; leave all

those grave thoughts for your older years. If
you like to sell your jewels, and give them all
to the poor, you can do it, but wait a few years
first ; wait to see more of the world. There is
a cruel science, called political economy, which
they certainly did not teach you at Faiel ; you
must learn something of that before you try to
decide these questions, which have vainly perplexed
every thoughtful man since rich and
poor were together on earth. And now, shut
your pretty eyes, and sleep and dream of your
triumphs ; they have been very innocent ones,
you need not repent them.'

He kissed her again, and left her to her
daybreak slumber in the warm orange-flower
scented air of her bed-chamber ; and himself
went out into the chill half-frozen streets of
Paris on one of those errands of mercy of
which he never spoke to any human being,
and which were the result of his pity for men
rather than of any belief or faith or sympathy
that he had with them. He was one of the
few men whom the lawless classes of Paris
have ever respected.

Othmar himself could go unharmed where
the police would not have ventured to go save

in force ; and in the days ot the Commune the
worst leaders of it had put a while cross on
the great houses of which he was master, and
spared them from torch and shell for sake of
the young man who was wont to pass through
the vilest quarters of Paris, with his hand ever
open and his compassion never denied. They
knew that if their couches sociales could have
been an accomplished fact, Othmar himself
would never have wished the old state of things
maintained, but would have accepted the new
with indifference and perfect courage, himself
glad to be rid of a burden.

They forgave him his riches for sake of
his own contempt for them ; his courage, even
his coldness, attracted them. He had no blague ;
he was entirely sincere ; he never attempted
to convert them to anything ; he aided them
without putting any price on his aid, either of
gratitude or doctrine. They knew that he
had neither fear of them nor love for them,
but that he had a profound sense of a common
humanity with them, which was in his eyes
as in theirs another name for a common misfortune.


The times were out of point for hin:i. If

lie had been created with the capacity of
religious faith, he would have been willingly
what Francois Xavier or Pere Lacordaire were.
But he had the clear and critical intelligence of
a man of the world ; the fables of faith could
not give him any mental pabulum. He took
refuge in pity ; it seemed to him that men
were bound to do for one another at least as
much as buffaloes do, which in trouble gather
around the wounded ones of the herd.

Melville alone had found out something of
what he did ; Melville, who although the
sweetest-voiced, softest-handed, of churchmen
and courtiers in salon and boudoir, never feared
or failed to descend into the haunts of iniquity,
to grapple with disease and crime. In such
places he and Othmar had met by chance more
than once, and on one occasion Melville had
said to him : ' You have more influence than
I, because they do not suspect you ; a priest is
always suspected of trying to save souls only
to serve his OAvn,'

If I have more influence than you, they
are thankless,' rejoined Othmar ; ' for you
certainly love, them, and I care nothing for
them, absolutely nothing.'

Why do you serve them, then ?' asked Melville,
in surprise.

Othmar sighed impatiently. ' It seems tome
that one is bound in honour when fate has
placed oneself beyond temptation;  besides,
these reeking breeding-pens of crime in the
midst of our own luxury are horrible ; they
are cancers in the very womb of human nature.
Your Christianity has endeavoured to cure
them for eighteen centuries, and has always
failed miserably. The cancer grows and grows.'

Few persons save those of the police, who
were perforce acquainted with his movements,
were aware of the intimacy and influence he
had acquired with the most wretched and the
most dangerous classes of Paris ; the food of
iimisons central and the emigrants of Noumea.
Often Friederich Othmar wondered within himself
whither went the large sums which his
nephew drew and spent without explanation ;
what he spent on art and on pleasure was
known, but there were often great quantities
of money taken by Othmar, in the exercise
of his unquestionable right, for the use of
which all the Baron's ingenuity failed to find
an account. Numberless families redeemed

from misery, many youths saved from crime
and the galleys, many grown men aided to
begin new lives in other comes, and many a
foul place purged to moral and physical cleanliness,
swallowed up these millions of francs,
of which the employment remained a secret
to the argus-eyes of Baron Fritz. There was
a nobility about the indifference of this very
ricci man to his riches which conquered the
hatred of the poor even amongst the Socialistic
arrondissements, where such hatred was the
sole religion recognised. They knew that
Othmar himself was as disdainful of existent
society as they were themselves, and that
although fortune had so favoured him, he was
no more content with the arrangement of the
world than they were themselves. They were
continually, brutally, ungrateful, but underneath
their gratitude they liked him, and would
never have harmed him.

As he walked out now into the misty air of
dawn, lie recalled the lovely face, with its sleepy
eyelids, of his young wife with a sharp pang
of conscience. Why could he not be content
with that innocent and undivided love ?

He recalled with a sense of some great fault

in himself how entirely she was outside his life,
how little hold she had upon his passions or
his emotions. She was exquisite, she was purity
itself in body and soul ; he realised his own
absolute possession of her as he had never
done that of any other woman. He had been,
that night, proud of her grace before the world,
charmed by her manner, conscious of her incomparable
distinction ; and she was his as
entirely as any flower that he might gather
in a field. For him had been her first flush, her
first kiss, her first consciousness of love ; and
yet, as he walked through the streets of Paris,
leaving her to sink to sleep like a happy and
tired child, he was conscious that his heart was
indifferent to her ; that, the mere early inclinations
of the senses pacified, she had no power
to rouse in him more than the kindly and indulgent
affection which a child might have
called forth by its helplessness and beauty.

He desired earnestly to make her as happy
as any creature could be on earth, and would
have denied her nothing which could have
helped to make her so ; but he could not command
his own passions, and he could not make
her the supreme mistress of them. She was

a most lovely and most innocent creature, who
was welcome to enjoy all the greatness and the
grace of life with which he could dower her ;
she was a young saint who would bear his
children in her breast as innocently as the
peach-blossom bears the fruit ; she was at all
times both dear to him and sacred to him ; but
love for her was not there. He sighed impatiently
as he felt that in all his words and
his caresses he acted a part with her, that perhaps
sooner or later, when the world had taught
her better what men were, she would know
that, and would be no longer so easily deceived.
As he had watched her that evening in her
serenity, her gracefulness, her dignity, he had
all at once remembered that in the great world
youth grows rapidly, as a flower in a hothouse,
that she would be surrounded by many who
would ask no happier task than to enlighten
her ignorance and embitter her confidence, and
that if she ever came to learn and realise that
she had owed her marriage partially to his
compassion, and more still to his passion for
another woman, her heart might break under
the burden of that bitter knowledge, but her
pride would never pardon the offence.

He began to feel as if lie wronged her,
though neither by act nor word had he been
untrue to her since her marriage. She was so
charming in every way, so delicate of thought,
so graceful in expression, so intelligent even in
her ignorance, so wholly worthy to inspire and
retain the greatest love of a man's life, that he
felt guilty before her, knowing that his pulses
beat no quicker when he joined her after
absence, that when her young lips, fresh as
roses, touched his own, he met them without
ardour or emotion. He had wished society to
attract her ; it seemed to him the quickest and
the easiest compensation that he could offer
her. At the root of the willingness with which
he entertained the world, he to whom it was as
indifferent as it was commonplace, was the unacknowledged
sentiment that if Yseulte placed
her happiness, as her temperament would lead
her to do, in the inner life, in the affections
and in the sympathies, she would be inevitably
most miserable soon or late, since soon or late
she would discover the poverty of his own
heart ; and his heart was richly endowed
enough by nature to make him ashamed to
think that it might ever be so. Friederich

Otlimar judged him harshly but justly ; his
indulgence and tenderness to her were not
those of a lover, but were the accumulated
gifts with which he strove to make her blind
to his own coldness. The more he lived with
her, the more he felt as though it were an
unpardonable sin to have no love to give Tier,
and the farther the possibility of such love receded
from him. Esteem, admiration, tenderness,
even affection, may all exist only to make
the absence of love itself the more conspicuous.
As he went through the quiet streets, almost
wholly deserted in the early hour of the morning,
and swept by a keen wind, a waggon
thundering along at too rapid a pace for so
clumsy a vehicle caught the wheel of a carriage,
which was coming in the opposite
direction. The shock flung the carriage on the
kerbstone ; one of its two horses fell, the other
struggled like a demoniac ; the coachman and
servant were thrown to the ground. Othmar
naturally hastened to the spot. He was the
only person in sight. The carriage itself had
oscillated violently, but was not upset ; its
occupant had opened the door of it before he
could arrive at the spot, and had leaped lightly

out, tliougli wrapped iu sable furs from head to
foot. When he reached the place, the fur-clad
fioriire was standing in calm contemplation of
the harm which had been done, and of the
struggling horses which the coachman, who had
sprung to his feet, was endeavouring to pacify.

Othmar, is it you ? ' said a voice whose
clear and sweet vibration sent the blood to his
temples ; and the eyes of Racine Xapraxine
looked at him from under the sable lining of
her velvet hood.

The waggon had blundered on out of sight,
its driver in terror of the distant figure of a
sero"eant-de-ville who had now approached the
scene. The fallen men had both found their
feet, and the horses were still throwing themselves
from side to side with broken traces and
slippery pavement adding to the difficulty increased
by their terror.

Othmar's own coupe, which followed him
at a distance, had now come up, and his servants
assisted hers. He opened the door of
his own carriage.

Pray accept it,' he said hurriedly. ' They
will drive you where you wish ; I will stay
and help your people.'

My people are idiots,' she said, as she
gave them a disdainful glance. ' The waggon
was large enough to be seen. I was coming
from the Gare du Nord ; my women and the
fourgons are behind me. What are you about
at this hour ? Does the Countess Othmar allow
you to be out so early  or so late ? '

There was a grain of malice in the accent
of the words ; Othmar coloured despite himself,
yet knew not why. He felt his whole
being thrill at the mere sound of the sweet,
cruel, well-remembered tones, and hated her.

She looked at him as they stood together
on the kerbstone of the deserted and foggy
street. She was enveloped in her long fur
mantle, and none of the lines of her figure
were traceable : she lead no more contour
than an Esquimaux. Yet, nevertheless, that
incomparable grace which belonged to her  as
its movement to a bird, as its fragrance to a
flower  seemed to detach itself, and escape,
even from the heavy shapeless covering of the
travelling-cloak in which she had been wrapped
throughout her long express journey from
Eussia hither by way of Berlin and Strasburg.
There was nothing visible of her except her

VOL. III. E

starry eyes, and yet all the irresistible power
which she possessed made his pulses fast and
his thought confused ; he strove against his
own weakness, and pressed his offer on her
with a cold courtesy.

Well, I will take it since you wish it,' she
said, as she entered his coupe. ' You will say
who I am to this sergeant-neville, and whatever
else may be necessary, though it is no
case for the police since the waggoner has
made good his escape ; and if he had not, I
certainly should let him alone. Tell your men
my address  you remember it ? Au revoir ! T
shall come and witness your happiness. Many
things from me to your wife.'

They were only the usual words of commonplace
politeness, yet to the ear of Othmar they
where fraught with a thousand meanings.
C'est le ton qui fait la musique,' and the
tone of these perfectly simple sentences had
for him irony, mockery, menace, and ridicule.
Eemember her address ! Eemember the Hotel
Napraxine ! As if to his dying day he would
ever forget the slightest trifle which had ever
been associated with her !

His horses started off at a swift trot,

and he lost her from sight. The questions of
the police as to the cause of the accident
started him as though someone had spoken to
him in his sleep. When the matter was over,
and the disabled carriage had been dragged
away by hand, and the frightened horses led
homewards by their coachman, it was too late
to go where he had intended. He returned
to his own house, bathed, dressed, and went to
his library : but he could not give his attention
to what he read. Nor when, with the early
hours of the forenoon, various persons came
to see him by appointment, could he confine his
thoughts to the subjects under consideration.

At noon he gave his card to a servant,
and told the man to go and inquire at her
hotel if the Princess Napraxine had suffered
any inconvenience from the accident of that
morning.

The servant brought him back one of the
small pale-rose-tinted notes, folded in three,
with the crown embossed in silver, wliicli he
knew so well. The few lines in it said only :

Merci bien. Vous eyes toujours preux
chevalier. Je n'ai rien suffer du tout. Le
Prince vous remerciera.  N. N.'

E 2

It was the merest trifle, a thing of no import,
such as lie wrote by scores every week
to numbers of indifferent people ; yet it had a
sort of fascination for him. He could not destroy
it ; its faint subtle scent, like that of a
tea-rose, recalled so vividly the charm of the
woman who had written it ; it seemed to him
as if no one but invading K'apraxine could have
sent that little note, coloured like a sea-shell,
delicate as a butterfly, with its miniature and
mignonne writing. Ashamed of his own Weakness,
and angry with himself for his own concessions,
he threw it into a drawer of his
bureau and turned the key on it.

He had not seen her for a year, and her
spell was unbroken ; all he had done to escape
from it was of no avail. One glance of her
eyes from beneath the furs in that bleak, grey,
misty daybreak, had sufficed to re-establish her
dominion. He was conscious that life seemed
no more the same to him since that chance encounter
; it would be more troubled, more excited,
more disturbed, but it would not be again
the dull and even course which it had seemed
to be when he had entered absent from her.

I will never see her, except in a crowd



he said to himself, Whilst he remembered, with
self-reproach, the tender caresses of Yseulte,
which left him so calm, and even in his heart
so cold!

Of course he had known that the Princess
Napraxine, who was more Parisienne than
the Parisiennes, would, sooner or later, return
to her home there ; would sooner or later
reappear in the society which she had always
preferred to all other. Eussia had never held
her long, and the seclusion which both her
taste and her irritation had made her seek
after the suicide of SehedofF could not, in
the nature of things, have lasted longer than
one season. Yet the sense that she was there
within a few streets of him, separated only by a
few roods of house-roof from him, affected him
with a force altogether unforeseen. He realised
in it that there is no cure in simples for strong
fevers, and that the will of a man is as naught
against the dominion of passion. Even that
slight letter, with its odour as of pale rose-buds,
had a power over him which all the loveliness
and innocence of Yseulte could not exercise.
The irresistible force of his own emotions
humiliated him in his own eyes.

He shrank a little, with almost a sense of
guiltiness, as a little tap came on the panels of
the library door, and from behind the tapestry
the fair head of his young wife peeped
cautiously.

May I come in ? ' she asked, as a child
might have done.

He rose with instinctive courtesy and opened
the door to her.

It was noonday, and her few hours of sleep
had sufficed to banish all her fatigue, and to
make her as fresh, as radiant, and as clear-eyed,
as she had been in the summer woods
of Amyot. She had none of the languor which
late hours cause in later years ; she had slept
as soundly as a young fawn tired with its play,
and had awakened as refreshed as a flower
that uncloses at sunrise. She wore a long
loose gown of palest blue, opening a little at
the throat, with much old lace, of which the
yellow tinge made whiter still the whiteness of
her skin. The gown was of satin, and had
gleams and shadows in it as she moved. Her
eyes smiled ; her cheeks were flushed from her
bath ; her entrance had a childish eagerness.

Do tell me again that I did well last night,'

she said, with a child's longing for the recapitulation
of its innocent triumphs.

He did not look at her as he drew her to
him with a mechanical caress.

You did perfectly,' he answered, absently.
A great ball is a woman's Austerlitz, I
suppose. Do not let it make you in love with
the world.'

One cannot but like it,' she said, with her
habitual truthfulness, a little wistfully. ' That
is what I thought last night; perhaps it is
wrong  when so many suffer '

They would not suffer a whit less if you
did not give a ball.'

She hesitated, being still shy with him, and
afraid of that which she had never seen, but
which she always dreaded, his displeasure.

But,' she said timidly, ' when one is so
very happy, one wants to do something to
deserve it. You have made for me such a
perfect life, I want to give others something
out of it. I should like to be useful, to show
that I am grateful ; not only to give away
money '

She paused, colouring a little at her own
temerity. She did not express herself very

well, because she was so much in earnest, and
so uncertain as to whether it would seem discontented
or vahi in her to say so much. In an
earlier moment the words would have touched
his heart ; he would have probably replied
by admitting her into some association with
the efforts of his own life, and some knowledge
of his own desires and regrets for humanity at
large. But in that instant he was only anxious
to be alone. He answered a little absently :

My child, ask your confessor these questions
; he will show you many ways ; you
think him a good man  I have too many
doubts myself to be able to solve yours.'

He spoke with a certain impatience ; the
harsher note grated on her sensitive ear. She
felt that her scruples, which were very honest
and sincere, did not meet with the same
sympathy from him that they had received a
few hours earlier.

A shadow passed over her face and she was
silent.

My dear,' continued Othmar, a little
penitently, a little inconsistently, ' I have had
such doubts as yours all my life, but no one
has ever respected me for them ; not even

those in whose merest they tormented me.
We cannot be wiser than all the world. K we
stripped ourselves bare to found some community
or some universal asylum, we should
only be ridiculed as visionaries or as mischievous
disturbers of the pub he peace and of
the balance of fortune. Charity has oftener
created a proletariat than it has increased
prosperity. These questions have haunted
me all my life. When I have found an answer
to them, I will tell you. Until then, enjoy yourself.
You are at the age when enjoyment is
most possible and most natural. I wish your
days to be happy.'

He spoke with a certain distraction ; he was
thinking little of what he said, much of the
eyes which had looked at him from under the
gloom of the fur in the mists of the dawn.
He sighed unconsciously as he felt that this
innocent young life beside him was no more
to him  hardly more  than the flower which
she wore at her throat. He recognised all its
beauty, spiritual and physical, but only as he
might have done that of a picture he looked
at, of a poem he read.

Enjoy yourself, dear ; why not ? ' he added

with kindness. 'You were made to smile asa
primrose is made to blossom, and it is now
mid April with you.'

He kissed her, and passed his hand carelessly
over her hair, then he glanced at the
clock on his writing-table.

I must leave you, for I have an appointment
to keep. What are you going to do
with your day ? '

Blanchette is to come to me. I have not
seen her yet. The children are only now up
from Bois le Eoy, and Toinon is ill.'

She answered him with a little sigh. She
wanted him to understand, and she could not
better explain, how her own intense thankfulness
for the new joys of her life filled her
sensitive conscience with a trembling longing
to become more worthy of it all, and to let the
light which was about her stream into all dark
places, and illumine them with love and peace.
But she felt chilled, and discouraged, and
silenced ; and she had been so accustomed to
keep all rebellious thoughts mute, that she did
not dream of pursuing a theme to which he
appeared indifferent. He kissed her hand and
left her. She sank down for a moment on the



writing-chair he had occupied before the table,
and leaned her forehead on her hands with
the first vague sensation of loneliness which
had ever touched her since her marriage day.

'If my little child had been born alive,'
she thought, ' then I should always have known
what duty to do, what use to be '

It was an infinite trouble to her conscience
that in these great palaces of the Othmars she
was as useless in her own sight as any one of
the green palm trees or the rose-hued parrots
in the conservatories. She could give money
away, indeed,  almost endlessly ; but that did
not seem enough to do ; that counted to her as
nothing, for it cost no effort. It hurt her to feel,
as she did feel vaguely, that she was no more
the companion of her husband than the marble
statue of Athens which stood at one end of his
great library. He was infinitely indulgent to
her. He was perfectly courteous and kind,
and generous even to excess ; but he never
opened his heart to her, he never made her
those familiar confidences which are the
sweetest homage that a man can render to a
woman, even when they display his own weakness
or unwisdom. She had too little experience

to be able to measure all that this
meant, all of which it argued the absence ;
but as much perception as she had of it
mortified her. At Amyot she had vaguely
suffered from it, but here, in Paris, he seemed
very far away from her in thought and feeling.
She felt that she was but one of the ornaments
of his house, as the azaleas and palms were in
their great porcelain vases.

To be exquisitely dressed, to be the possessor
of some of the finest jewels in the world,
to be told to amuse herself as she chose, to
have the world at her feet, and all Paris
look after her as she drove over its asphalte,
would have been enough to most women of
her age to make up perfect happiness ; but it
was not enough for the girl whose thoughtful
years had been passed under the sad and
solemn skies of Morbihan, and who had the
sense of duty and the instincts of honour inherited
from great races who had perished on
the scaffold and on the battle-field. There
was a pensive seriousness in her nature which
would not permit her to abandon herself
wholly to the self-indulgences and gaieties of
the life of the world. She was too grave and

too spiritual to become one of the butterflies
who flirt with folly from noonday till night.
Her chastened childhood in the darkened
rooms on the lie St. Louis had left a gravity
with her which could not easily assimilate
itself to the levity and the hence of modern
society, which offended her taste as it affronted
her delicacy.

CHAPTEE Xxxi.

A FEW minutes after Otlimar lead left the
house her groom of the chambers ushered
into the library the Due de Yannes and his
elder daughter. Blanchette, muffled up to her
dancing turquoise coloured eyes in sealskin,
and with her small, impatient feet cased in
little velvet boots lined with fur, in which
costume Carlos Durant was about to paint
her portrait for the salon, with a background of
snow and frosted boughs taken from the Bois,
sprang across the long room with the speed of
a little greyhound, and embraced her cousin as
if she had never loved anyone so much in all
the days of her life. They had not met for six
months, for Blanchette had been in penitence
with her governesses and the dowager Duchesse
de Vannes, in the depths of the Jura ; a
chastisement which had only sent her back to
Paris two centimetres taller, full of resolution

to avenge herself, and more open-eyed and
quick-eared than ever.

Ah, my dearest ! How happy I am to
see you again ! ' she cried in ecstasy, lifting her
pretty little pale face to be kissed, in a transport
of affection.

II faut la manager : elle est si riche ! ' she
had said to Toinon that morning, who was in
bed with a cold, and who had grumbled in
answer, ' Autrefois elle etait si bete ! ' to which
Blanchette had judiciously replied, ' On n'est
lamas bete quand on est riche.'

De Yannes, when his little daughter's
ecstasies were somewhat spent, approached
with a smile and kissed the hand of Yseulte
with a reverential but cousinly familiarity.

Out so early !' she said in surprise.
Surely you never used to see the outer air
till two o'clock ?'

I brought this feu-follet to enjoy your
kindness,' said the Due, ' that I might have
the pleasure of seeing you before all the
world does. I wished, too, to be the first to
congratulate you, my cousin, on your brilliant
success last night. You were perfect, marvellous,
incredible ! '

I think I was much like any one else,' said
Yseulte, to check the torrent of his adjectives ;
and the success of the ball was due more to
Julien than to us ; he was so enchanted to
have a ball to organise in this great house after
so many years without any receptions.'

Julien is an admirable maitre d'hotel, no
doubt,' answered de Vannes, with a smile ;
and he is happy in possessing a young mistress
dio appreciates his zeal and fidelity, but it is
not of Julien that all Paris is talking and sighing
this morning.'

They must be talking and sighing in their
beds then,' said Yseulte, a little impatiently.
I thought no one was up so early as this
except myself. Is the Duchesse well ? She
was so kind last night ; she gave so much e?i-
train '

You know I never see her till dinner, if
then, unless I chance to cross her in the Bois,'
answered the Due, a little irritably.

He had risen three hours too early, and had
bored himself to bring his little daughter herein
his coupe ; and he felt that so much self-sacrifice
was not likely to avail him anything
except that as he looked at Yseulte he could

see for once in his life a woman who was still
prettier in the morning than at night. He himself
did not bear that trying light well ; the
lines about his eyes were deep and not to be
hidden by any art, his eyes were dull and
heavy, his cheeks hollow, and his moustache
dyed. By night he was still one of the most
elegant of la haute bonnie, and his natural distinction
could never altogether leave him ; but
his manner of life had aged him prematurely,
and he felt old beside the freshness and the
youth of Yseulte.

His vanity and his good sense alike counselled
him to retire from a position which would
avail him nothing ; but a certain malice, which
was a part of his character, and which his little
daughter had inherited in increased degree,
prompted him first to take reprisal for the indifference
of his reception. Yseulte remained
standing, holding the hand of Blanchette, evidently
not desiring that he should be long
there, and giving him no invitation to protract
his visit until her breakfast hour. Blanche te's
mischievous eyes watched her father's visible
annoyance with keen appreciation of it ; she
nat not forgotten the medallion given at Milloo,

VOL. III. F

and she had guessed very well why she had
received the extraordinary honour of a seat in
his brougham as he drove to the Jockey. She
had been just about to leave the house with her
maid when the Due, passing her in the vestibule,
lead said carelessly : ' Is it you, you little
cat? Ah, you are going to your cousin.
Well, jump in with me, and I will set you
down as I pass ; I am going to the Jockey.'
Now Blanchette knew as well as he did that
the way from their house to the Jockey Club
did not by any means lie past the Hotel
d'Othmar ; but she had been too shrewd to say
that, and too proud of driving beside her father,
who smoked a big cheroot, and told her about
the little theatres.

Can I see Othmar .? ' he asked now, as he
made his adieux to Yseulte.

I am sorry, but he is just gone out,' she
answered ; ' I think he is gone for some hours ;
I do not know where.'

You will soon learn not to say so,' thought
the Due, diverted even in his discomfiture by
her simplicity. He said aloud :

Do you think he may have gone to seethe
Kapraxines.P He was always a great

friend of theirs, and they arrived last night ;
it is in all the papers, but then you do not read
the papers. I only ask, because I should be
so glad if I could meet him anywhere. The
Prefect of Nice writes to me about the basin
of Milloo ; now S. Pharamond has much more
sea-front and much larger share of the harbour
than we have, and if Othmar would use his
influence, one word from him '

I will tell him ; he will be sure to come
to you or write to you,' she said quickly. She
had flinched a little at the name of the Ia-
praise, which no one had spoken to her since
that silver statue of the Love with the empty
gourd had been sent to her before her marriage.

Bien joue, petit papa,' thought Blanchette,
with understanding and appreciation, as her
father braved himself out of Othmar's library.

Oh, how happy you are !  how I wish I
were you ! ' she cried, five minutes later, as she
skipped about her cousin's boudoir, while the
glow of the fire of olive-wood shone on the
panels which Bougereau had painted there with
groups of those charming nude children which
he can set frolicking with almost the soft
poetic grace of Correggio.

Yseulte smiled on the little impudent face
of the child, who leaned her elbows on her
knees as she spoke.

I am very happy,' she said, with perfect
truth. ' But I hope you will be as much soone
day, Blanchette.'

Blanchette nodded.

I shall marry into the finance too ; the
noblesse is finished ; papa says so. He said
yesterday, ' Nous sommes de vieux bonzes 
emballons-nous ! '

Blanchette tied her arms and legs in a knot
as she had seen a clown do, and made a pantomimic
show of being rolled away on a wheelbarrow
; then she gathered herself up and came
and stood before her cousin and hostess.

Te voila, grande dame ! ' she cried, looking
at her with her own little pert flaxen
head, with its innumerable little curls held on
one side critically, as she surveyed Yseulte
from head to foot with a frank astonishment
and admiration. It was only such a little
while ago that Yseulte had been her butt and
victim at Milloo ; that she had ridiculed her for
her grey convent dress, her thick shoes, her
primitive, pious habits, brought from the Breton

woods, and lo !  here she stood, ' tres grande
dame ! ' as Blanchette, a severe judge in such
matters, acknowledged to herself. So tall, so
elegant, so stately, with her beautiful slender
hands covered with oreat rings, and her 
a cascade of marvellous old lace.
She looks quite twenty years old ! ' thought
Blanchette. ' How nice it must be to be
married, if one get grown up all at once like
that ! '

She was so absorbed in her thoughts that
she was unusually quiet for a little time, during
which her terrible eyes scanned every detail of
Yseulte's appearance, from the pearl solitaire
at her throat to the gold buckles in her shoes.
Then, with a shriek of laughter, she cried
aloud :

Do you remember when you came first tous
you had leather shoes  leather !  and no
heels, and mamma sent you at once to have
some proper shoes ; and how you could not
walk a step in them, and cried ? '

'I remember,' said Yseulte good-humoured,
'but I wonder you do  you were so
little.'

Oh, I never forget anything,' replied

Blancliette, sagely. ' What beautiful feet you
have now, and you are so grown, so grown !
And I want to see all your jewels. Mamma
says they are wonderful. I love jewels.'

You shall see them, if you like, by-and-bye.
But you did see many before my marriage.'

But mamma says he has given you ever so
many more since  that you \ere covered with
them at your ball.'

He is always generous.'

Yseulte smiled as she spoke  the dreamy
introspective smile of one who recalls happy
hours.

Tope-la, while it lasts,' said the small cynic
before her.

Hush,' said Yseulte, with some disgust.

Papa never gives mamma anything,'
pursued Blanchette. ' Papa gives heaps of
things to Mdlle. Praise ; the one they call Pose
Praise. She plays ; she has eyes like saucers :
she is at the Parietes ; she rides a roan horse
in the Bois of a morning. Don't 3'ou go to the
theatre every night ? When I marry I shall
have a box at every house. I have gone to
Hunger's. Xow show me the jewels, will
you ? '

To humour the child, Yseulte took her to
her dressing-room, where the tortoiseshell and
silver box, which was the outer shell of the
iron fire-proof jewel case, was kept, and told
her women to open it. Blanchette remained in
an almost religious ecstasy before the treasures
exposed to her adoring eyes. Nothing could
awe this true child of her century except such
a display as she now saw of ropes of pearls,
streams of sapphires, emeralds green as the
deep sea, diamonds in all possible settings, rare
Italian jewels of the Renaissance, and Byzantine
and Persian work of the rarest quality. She
was, after an hour's worship, with difficulty
persuaded to leave the spot where such divine
objects were shut within their silver shrine
defended by Chubb's locks.

You are happy ! ' she said, with a sigh.

Yseulte danced at a miniature of Othmar
which stood near.

That is worth them all ! ' she said, and
then coloured, vexed that she had betrayed
herself to the artificial, satirical mockery of the
child.

But Blanchette did not hear ; she was
thinking of the great diamonds lying like

planets and comets fallen out of the sky into
their velvet beds.

Dis done,' she said abruptly, * what is your
budget for your toilettes ? You would not tell
me when you married ; tell me now.'

I do not think it concerns you, my dear,
and your mamma knows,' replied Yseulte.

Oh, it made mamma very angry ; she said
he gave you three times as much as she has ;
that is why I want to know what it is, because
then I should know what hers is. And I know
she is in debt so deep ! ' and Blanchette held
her little hand high above her head. ' What
is the first thing you ordered, Yseulte? Me,
I should order a petticoat with Valenciennes
quite up to the top ; like that they are three
thousand francs each. Yours are like that ?
You have got them in all colours, and ever so
many white satin ones too ? If I were you, I
should be all day long with the lingered and
costumes. Are you not with them all day
long ? '

No, I have ordered nothing ; I want nothing
; I have such quantities of clothes ;  if
I live to be a hundred I shall never wear them
out! '

Wear them out ! ' cried Blanchette, with a
scream which was as inimitable as a shriek
of Judic's or Jeanne Granter's. ' What an expression
! One would think you were a doctor's
wife in the provinces. You know 3'ou can
never wear anything more than three times,
and a toilette du soir never but once. Your
maids surely tell you that ? '

I wear what they put out,' said Yseulte, a
little amused. ' But I doubt very much whether
I shall ever care about chiffons ; not in your
sense of caring, Blanchette. Of course I like
pretty things, but there are so many other
ways of spending money.'

What ways ?' said the child sharply.
'Play? Horses? The Bourse? Or do you
buy big jewels ? It is very safe to buy big
jewels ; you can run away with them in revolution,
sown in your stays '

There is so much to do for the poor,' said
Yseulte, with a little hesitation ; she feared to
seem to boast of her own charity, yet she
thought it wrong to let the child think that she
spent all she had selfishly and frivolously.

Blanchette's little rosy mouth grinned.

For the poor ? One can queer ; that is

always amusing. I stood at the door of S.
Philippe after Mass last month, and I got such
a bagful of napoleons, and I wore a frock,
colder de feu and a Henri-Trois hat, and
Monseigneur himself kissed me  it was great fun
there was a crowed in the street, and one of
them said, " 'Est crane, la petite ! " It was a
baker's boy said it; I threw him a napoleon
out of the bag.'

Oh, Blanchette !  out of the alms money !'

Why not ? T put a dragee in instead,
and I dare say the boy was poor, or he
wouldn't have had a basket on his head.
Monseigneur said to mamma that I was one of
the children of heaven ! '

And Blanchette made her dined de nez, and
waltzed round on one foot.

'You could buy the whole of Siraudin's
and not feel it,' she resumed enviously. ' You
could buy half Paris they say ; why don't you ? '

I have all I want,' said Yseulte ; ' very
much more than I want.'

That is nonsense ; one need never stop
wishing '

One must be very ungrateful then,' said
Yseulte. ' But you can wish as much as you

like this morning ; you shall have your wishes.
Only I should like to hear you wish that
Timon were with you. Poor Toinon, at home
with her sore throat ! '

'I don't wish that at all,' said Blanchette
sturdily ' Lie pinches, she gobbles, and she
is vulgar, if you like ; she swears like the
grooms. You know our rooms overlook the
stables ; we can hear all the men say when
they are cleaning the horses. Toinon makes
signals to the English tiger Bob, and he to her.
Toinon will only marry someone who keeps a
fine mete and good colours for a hunting-dress.
She only lives for the Cours Hippique.
She got her sore throat because she would goon
M. de Eochmont's break when it was
raining.'

Poor Toinon ! You ought to be so fond
of each other. If I had had a sister '

Ab-bali ! ' said Blanchette ; ' you would
have hated her ! I can never have a scrap of
pleasure in a new frock because Toinon always
has one too ; I know I do not make half the
effect I should do if I were all alone ! '

Hush ! If Toinon died, only think how
sorry you would be ! '

Blancliette laughed in silence ; she did not
dare to say so, but she thought that if Toinon
did die it would be a bore in one way, because
death always dressed one in black, and shut
one up in the house ; but otherwise  there
were quantities of Toinon's things which she
would like to possess herself, and in especial a
set of pink coral, which Toinon's godmother,
the Queen of Naples, had given her, which was
delicious. Blanchette's own godmother was
but little use to her, being a most religious and
most rigid Marquise, who dwelt on her estates
in a lonely part of La Vendee, and only made
her presents of holy books and crucifixes and
relics in little antique boxes.

Do you know, Yseulte,' she continued,
with her persistent prattle, as she hopped
round the room, examining and appraising as
accurately as a dealer at the Drouot the treasures
which it contained, ' they make bets
about you at the clubs P How nice that is !
Nobody is anything in Paris till the clubs do
that. Papa and the Marquis have a hundred
thousand francs on it, and mamma laughs ; 
they think I don't hear these things, but I
do.'

'Bets on meP' repeated Yseulte in wonder.
Why should they bet about me ?'

Oh, they bet as to whether you will be the
first to flanquer Count Othmar, or he you.
They often make that sort of bet when people
marry. Papa is all for you ; he says you will
heflaiiguee, and bear it like an angel,  "like
a two-sous print of S. Marie !" said mamma.'

Yseulte coloured with natural indignation.

You have no right to repeat such things
if you hear them, Blanchette,' she said, with
only a vague idea of the child's meaning.
'You might make great mischief. If Count
Othmar were to know '

Bah !' said Blanchette. ' You will not tell
him. You are in love with him ; they all say
so ; it is what they laugh at : it is what they
bet about  how long it will last, who will get
him away first, what you will do, whether you
will take some one else. Papa says you will
not ; mamma says you will : they quarrel ever
so often about it. You see,' continued Blanched,
with her mixture of blase cynicism
and childish naivete, which made lier say the
most horrible things with only a half perception
of their meaning, ' they all only marry

for that, to be able to take some one else ;
that is \\\\Y it does not matter if one's husband
is as old as the Pont Neuf and as ugly as
Punch. You happen to be in love with your's,
and he is handsome ; but it only makes them
laugh, and he was never in love with you 
mamma says so ; he married you because he
was angry with Madame Napiaxine, and he
wanted to do something to vex her.'

Blanchette, who was given to such ruthless
analysis of other people, did not dissect her
own emotions, so t"lhe was ignorant of the
malice which actuate her speech, of the unconscious
longing which moved her to put a
thorn in the rose. She wanted all those jewels
for herself! She knew very well she could
not have them, that she would be laughed at
by Toinon and everybody if it were known
she washed for them ; still, the longing for
them made it pleasant to her to plant her
little poisoned dagger in the happy breast of
her cousin. But she paused, for once frightened
at the sudden paleness of her cousin's
face.

Yseulte gave a little low cry, like a
wounded animal ; she felt the air grow grey,

the room go round her, for a moment, with
the intensity of her surprise, the shock of her
pain. But in another moment she recovered
herself ; she repulsed, almost without pausing
to examine it, a suspicion which was an offence
to himself and her. She laid her hand on the
little gay figure of the cruel child, and stopped
her in her airy circuit of the room, with a
gesture so grave, a rebuke so calm, that even
Blanchette was awed.

My little cousin,' she said, with an authority
and a serenity which seemed all at once to
add a score of years to her age, ' you can jest
with me, and at me, as much as ever you like,
I shall forgive it and I shall never forget all I
owed once to your mother ; but if you venture
to speak again of my husband without respect,
I shall not forgive it. I shall close his house to
you, and I shall tell your parents why I do so.'

Blanchette looked furtively up in her face,
and understood that she was not to be trifled
with. She began to whimper, and then to
laugh, and then to murmur in the coaxing
way she had when she had been most in fault.

How grand you have grown, and low
old in twelve months ! You know I only talked

nonsense ; I never heard them say a word ; I
only wanted to teaze you ; it is so silly, you
see, Seule, to be so in love with M. Othmar,
it is so bourgeoise and so stupid, and they all
say that it is not the way to keep him. Me,
when I marry, I weill always make my husband
call me Madame, and I will never let him
touch but the tip of my little finger, and I will
eat oysters every day, and drive the horse that
wins the Grand Prix in my basket in the Bois.
Bis done ! you will not tell mamma I said anything
naughty ? '

I shall not tell lier,' said Yseulte, dio
could not so quickly smile. She felt as if someone
had run a needle straight through her
heart.

Blanchette laid her curly head against her
cousin's breast :

I do love you, Yseulte,' she murmured.
You are always true, and you are always
kind, and you are so handsome, so handsome !
Mercie, and all the sculptors say so ; and all
the painters too. The Salon will be full of
your busts and your portraits; Madame Na-praise
is only a pale woman with great black
eyes like coals in a figure of snow '

I desire you not to speak of Madame
Napraxine ! ' said Yseulte, with a violence
Avliich startled herself and momentarily shook
her self-control.

The child, who had ignorantly meant to
atone and to console for her previous offence,
was genuinely alarmed at her failure.

I only meant that you are much prettier,
much handsomer, than she is,' lie stammered.

Madame Napraxine's beauty is celebrated,'
said Yseulte, with enforced calmness. ' Leave
off your habit of indulging in personalities.
Blanchette ; it is a very vulgar fault, and it
makes you malicious for the pleasure of fancying
yourself witty. Come and feed my peacocks
; they are birds Who will recommend
themselves to your esteem, for they are intensely
vain, artificial, and egotistic ; they
believe flowers only grow that they may pull
them to pieces.'

I don't care for the peacocks,' said
Blanchette. ' Drive me in the Bois in the
Dumont with the four white horses, and you
:Can buy me something at Sirau din's as we go.'

As you like,' said Yseulte.

Yseulte humoured the child's caprices, and

VOL. III. G

drove her out into the cold sparkling air with
the four white horses, with their postilions in
black velvet caps and jackets, which Blanchette
condescended to praise as the most cic thing
in all Paris. It was on the tip of her tongue
to say that they were even more chic than the
Napraxine black horses and Eussian coachman,
but she restrained herself, unwilling to offend
her cousin before they stopped on their return
from the Bois at Giroux's, at Siraudin's, and at
Fontaine's, for Blanchette was too sensible to be
satisfied with toys and bonbons, and set her
affections on three monkeys in silver-gilt, playing
at see-saw on a tree trunk of jade, with
little caps made of turquoises on their heads.

"When she lead chattered herself tired, and
the day was declining, she consented to allow
herself to be driven home, and Yseulte returned
alone to-the Boulevard S. Germain. For the
hast time since her marriage her heart was
heavy. The selfishness and greed of her little
companion were nothing new to her, but they
had been made painfully evident in that drive
through Paris; and the wound which the child
had given her still smarted, as the bee-sting
throbs after the insect has flown away. It was

not that she believed Avhat was said ; she was
too loyal and too innocently sure of her husband's
affection to dishonour him by such suspicion.
Yet the mere knowledge that such
things were said of him and herself hurt her
delicacy and her pride cruelly, and she knew
well that, if the Duchesse de Yannes said so, then
the world said so too. And her heart contracted
as she thought involuntarily, ' AYh}
should they speak of Madame Napraxine at all
in connection with me, unless  unless he had
loved her ? '

Yseulte was too young to think with composure
of the women who had preceded herself
in the affections of her husband ; she
could not console herself, as older or colder
women would have done, with the reflection
that every man has many passions, and that the
past should be a matter of indifference to one
who was indissolubly united with his present
and his future. To her it seemed that if he
had ever loved any one else he could not cares
for her ; all the ignorance and exaggeration of
youth made this seem a certainty to her.

She was no longer the calm and innocent
child that she had been at Milloo ; th'. passions

G 2

of humanity had become to stir in her ; love,
the great creator and the great destroyer, lead
taken possession of her, and had roused in her
impulses, jealousies, desires, of whose existence
she had never dreamed ; her temperament,
naturally sweet and spiritual, had beneath it unknown
springs of ardour and of passions : le vin
mousseiLv, which her cousin Alain had said was
latent in her blood from the impetuous and
voluptuous race of her fathers. She could not
wholly recover from the shock which she had
received, as from a bolt that fell from sunny
skies. It had been only a child's frothy foolish
chatter, no doubt ; yet the mere suggestion
made in it clung to her memory with a cruel
and terrible persistency. She did not doubt
that the child had only repeated what she had
heard ; she knew that Blanchette's memory
was as retentive as a telephone ; and if the
Duchesse de Yannes had said it, then the world
had thought it. She had not allowed Blanched
to perceive the pain that she had caused ;
but as her horses had flashed through the chill
bright frosty air of Paris, and the child's gay
shrill voice had chattered incessantly beside
her, she had suffered the first moments of

anguish that she had known since her marriage.
As she drove now through the streets of Paris,
in which the lamps were beginning to sparkle
through the red of the winter sunset, she felt a
strange sense of solitude amidst those gay and
hurrying crowds through which her postboys
forced their fretting horses.

At Amyot, on the days when Othmar had
left her, she had never felt alone ; she had
amused herself with the dogs, the birds, the
horses, the woods ; she had dreamed over her
classic music, or read some book which he had
recommended, and spent hours looking from
the balustrade of the great terrace, or from the
embrasure of a window to watch for the first
appearance in the avenue of the horses which
should bring him from the station of Beau-agency.
She had never felt alone at Amyot,
but here in the city which she loved from the
associations of childhood, and as the scene of
her marriage, in this city which regarded her
as one of the most fortunate of its favourites
of fortune, she felt a sense of utter loneliness
as the carriage rolled through the gates.

The Suisse told her that Othmar had not
come home.

She went upstairs to her boudoir and threw
off her close-fit Lino coat of sables and her
sable hat, and sat down beside the olive-wood
fire, drawing off her long gloves. The room
was softly lighted with a rose-tinted light which
shone on the gay children painted by Bout
the flowered satin of the curtains and
couches, the Dresden frames of the mirrors, the
marqueterie of the tables and consoles, the
bouquets of roses of all growths and colours.
She looked round it with a little sigh ; with the
same sense of chillness and sadness. Everything
in it seemed to echo-the cruel words :
He only married you to anger her ! '

In the morning the whole chamber had
seemed to smile at her from all the thousand
trifles, which spoke in it of his tender thoughtfulness
for herself; now, the roses in their
bowls, the children on their panels, the amoris
holding up the mirrors, the green parrots
swinging in their rings, all seemed to say with
one voice, ' What if he never loved you ? '

Her arms rested on her knees and her face
on her hands, as she sat in a low chair before
the fire which burned under white marble
friezes of the Daphnephoria, carved by the hand

of Clesinger. She could never ask him, she
could never ask any one, of this cruel doubt,
which had come into her perfect peace as a
worm comes into a rose. All her ]pride shrank
from the thought of laying bare such a wound.
Not even in the confessional could she have
brought herself to breathe a whisper of it. She
was not yet seventeen years old, and she held
already a doubt which, like the pains of
maternity, she must shut in her heart and bear
as best she midst alone. She had both courage
and resignation in her nature, and she needed
both.

It is impossible !' she murmured unconsciously,
half aloud, as the memory of a
thousand caresses and gestures, which seemed
to her to be proof of the most absolute love,
came to her thoughts with irresistible persuasion,
and made her face grow warm with
blushes even in her solitude. It was impossible
that he did not love her he who had
been free to choose from the whole world.

It is impossible !' she murmured, with her
head lifted as though in some instinct of
combat against some unseen foe.

What is impossible ?' said Othmar, as he

entered the room and approached behind her,
unseen until he had drawn her head backward
and kissed her on the eyes. ' What is impossible,
my child ?' he repeated. ' Xo wish of yours
if you tell it to me.'

She coloured very much, and rose, and remained
silent. Her heart was beating fast ;
she did not know what to reply. By the light
of the fire he did not see how red she grew
and then how pale. He seated himself in a
low chair and took her by the hand.

What is so impossible,' he said carelessly,
that you dream of it in my absence in the
dark?'

Nothing,  at least,I would rather not
say,' she murmured.

As you like,' said Othmar. ' You know I
am not Blue Beard, my dear.'

A great longing rushed through her to tell
him what the Duchesse de Yannes had said,
and ask him if it were true or false  he who
alone could know the secrets of his own heart,
but sensitiveness, timidity, delicacy, pride, all
made her mute. What use would it be to ask
him? He would never wound her with the
truth if the truth were what her cousin had said.

Othmar smiled kindly as he looked at her ;
she did not know that if he had loved her
more he would have been more curious before
this, her first secret, less willingly resigned to
be shut out from her confidence.

Who has been with you to-day ? ' he asked.
Oh, I remember, you have had little Blanched.
What a terrible child ; she is an
Elzevir compendium of the century. Has she
said anything to vex you ? She is as malicious
as Mascarille '

Yseulte touched his hand timidly. There
was a grain of fear in her adoration of him,
that fear which enters into all great love, though
Nadine Xapraxine and Madame de Vannes
would have ridiculed it as 'jeu de lac et de
novelle,' the ' vieux jeu ' of the romanticists and
sentimentalists.

You do love mo? ' she said, very low, with
much hesitation, while her colour deepened.

Othmar looked up quickly with a certain
irritation.

Has that pert baby told you to doubt
it . Can that be a question between you and
me? My dear child, would you be by me
now if I did not do so ? '

And he soothed her agitation by those
caresses with which a man can so easily and
with pleasure to himself counterfeit warmth
and tenderness to a woman who has youth
and grace and cheeks as soft as the wing of a
bird.

Yseulte,' he said gravely a few moments
later, ' do not listen to what other Avoient say
to you ; if you do, you will lose your beautiful
serenity and fret yourself vainly by doubts and
fancies. There is nothing on earth so cruel to
a woman as women. They envy you  not forme
 but for what you possess through me and
for the face and form with which nature has
dowered you. Do not let them poison your
peace. I am not afraid that they will corrupt
your heart, but I am afraid that they may distress
and disturb you. We cannot live all our
lives in seclusion at Amyot, and the world must
come about you soon or late. To be in the
world means to be surrounded with jealousies,
cruelties, enmities, ingratitude, and malice ; if
we once lend our ear to what these will tell us,
we shall have no more happiness. You have
been like your favourite, S. Ignace ; by reason
of your own purity you have been allowed to

hear the angels sing. Do not let the world's
clamour drown that dive song, for once lost
no one ever hears it again ! Do you understand
what I mean, my dear ? '

She said nothing, but she hid her face on
his breast and burst into tears, the first that he
had ever seen from her eyes.

Can they not let her alone,' he thought
with anger, and a sense of weariness and
apprehension ; if the world taught her what
men's love could be, would she not discover
what was missing in his ?

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Whex the three black horses of the Princess
Napraxine, with their manes flying in the wind,
their eyes flashing, and their nostrils breathing
fire, dashed down the Champs Ely sees to make
the tour du Bois, all Paris looked after her, and
multitudes who only knew her by repute took
off their hats to her as they had used to do ina
bygone time to the golden-haired empress.

Ah, if I had been in that woman's place
in 'seventy-one,' she thought once, ' I would
not have run array in a cab with Evans the
dentist ; I would have put on a white gown
and all my diamonds, and gone oat before
them on to the terrace of the Tuileries 
they would have forgotten Sedan, and would
have worshipped me ! I cannot forgive people
who have the happiness of great opportunities
for not rising to be equal to them. One can
but die once, and it must be essentially delightful
to die amidst a roll of drums, a blaze of sunset,

a storm of welcome. The death of Desaix
at Marengo is the ideal death.'

There was at the bottom of her soul,
despite her languor, ennui, and pessimism, a
certain heroic element ; life seemed to her so
poor a thing, so stupid, so illogical, that if
it went out in hire it vindicated itself in a
measure.

Sometimes, do you know,' she said once
to a sympathetic companion, ' I think I might
have been something great if I had been born in
the time for it ; all depends upon that. Mdlle.
de Montreuil would have lived and died like ten
thousand other Frenchwomen, in the monotony
of the vie de chateau if she had not happened
to be alive under the Terror. "What possibility
of any greatness is there for a woman
who lives nowadays in what calls itself the
great world? The very men who have any
genius in it are dwarfed by it. Modern life is
so trivial, yet so absorbing ; it is such a bed of
down and such a bed of prickles ; it is such a
sleeping-potion and such a whip of nettles, that
we have no time to think about anything but
itself. You must live '-a Tabri des hommes," if
you want to be of higher stature than they are.

Bismarck is a colossus, because he shuts himself
up in Varzin so constantly. It is very
hard even for men to resist the presence of the
world ; even Tennyson leaves Farringford in the
primrose month to court a vulgar apotheosis in
the London drawing-rooms ; and for a woman
who finds herself from birth upward in that
milieu there is no resistance possible. We are
born to dress, to drive, to dine, to dance, to set
the fashion in all kinds of things,  and that is
all. If we are clever, we do mischief in meddling
with the hidden cards of diplomacy or
statecraft, and if we are light-minded we do a
different manner of mischief in making all sorts
of vices look pretty and distinguished to those
below us, who are always endeavouring to
imitate us ; but more than that we cannot do.
The morphine has been injected into our veins ;
we cannot resist its influence ; there is a kind
of excitement and somnolence, both at once, in
the routine of our world which none of us can
resist. If we have any brains, perhaps we
make resolutions to resist, but we do not keep
them ; the world we live in is idiotic but it is
irresistible. When we wake, we see the heap of
invitation cards on our table ; we yawn, but we

yield, and we fill up our book of engagements ;
the day is crowded, so is the year ; and so life
slips away hurried, tired, thinking itself amused.
Sometimes I think I should like to live amongst
the corn-fields and the larch woods, and do good,
and I dare say I shall when I am old, or, what is
still worse than old , middle-aged. But you know
one does not do good in that way ; one always
gets imposed on, and the Jew money-lender in
the centre of the village would be really the
person who would profit by one's charities. It
is quite easy for stupid people to be happy ;
they believe in fables and they trot on in a
beaten track like a horse on a tramway. But
when you have some intelligence, and have
read something besides your breviary, and have
studied the philosophy of life a little, it is much
more difficult to content yourself My friends
who are putting on bUsters and bandages at the
hospitals, fancy they are on the way to eternal
salvation, but a political economist would tell
them that they were only doing a vast deal of
mischief, upsetting the nicely-balanced arrangements
of Nature. Myself, I think, Nature has
very little to do with the world as it is in the
nineteenth century in Europe. I do not think

Nature, left to herself, would create either cripples
or cancers, any more than she would yoke
bullocks or cut terriers' tails.'

She had accompanied her friends the Dames
du Calvary more than once to those hospitals,
where patrician hands touched the leper's sores
and the idiot's ulcers ; but her delicate taste
had been revolted, and lier intelligence, nurtured
on shrewd and satiric philosophies, had
rejected the idea that any good was done by
great ladies transforming themselves into sick
nurses of disease. She thought it must be
infinitely delightful to be able to dehrJe yourself
in that kind of way, to think that you
pleased Deity by putting on a poultice and
averted a social cataclysm by washing a cretin,
but she did not believe in that kind of thing
herself. She did not see how any one could
do so who had thought about life, and the rest
of it.

I dare say I am quite useless,' she would
reply to those who tried to convince her, ' but
then so many things are. Who has ever found
out the use of butterflies, or of daisies, or of a
nautilus, or of a nightingale, or of those charming
rosy clouds which drift about at sunset?

I do not see the utility of prolonging the
horrible and miserable lives of lepers and of
idiots in hospitals and asylums. Humanity is
not in the least served ; it is much more often
profoundly noxious and disgusting. Even the
people who talk about its sanctity, do not believe
in what they say, or war would become
an impossibility, and so would all the factories
which, as Victor Hugo has said, take the soul
out of man to put it into machinery.'

When she spoke in this way she was very
much in earnest, and her arguments were very
hard to refute ; and even Melville went out of
her presence with an uncomfortable, though
unacknowledged, sense that his whole life had
been a mistake based on a bubble which had
all the hues of the rainbow, indeed, but no
more than a bubble's solidity. When the men
of science, with whom she sometimes amused
herself by playing the part of the great Catherine
to the Encyclopedists, came into her presence,
they fared no better than the priests, and
she did not believe in them a whit the more.

Five hundred years hence, your ideas and
your discoveries will all be refuted and ridiculed,'
she said to them, ' as you now refute

VOL. Ill, II

and ridicule the physiology of the Greeks and
Latins ; you will not find the key to the
mystery of creation by torturing dogs or chaining
horses on a bed of agony.'

And she listened to them, but she laughed
at them. To the satirical clearness of her
highly-trained intelligence the delirium of
science was quite as much a malady of the
mind as were the rhapsodies of religion.

La science est la grande nevrose du moment
; ca passera,' she said once to Claude
Bernard.

Li Paris, JN'adine Napraxine was what the
world had made her ; lie was the elegant of
her period, a hothouse flower of fragile beauty,
of absolute indolence, of hypercritical taste, of
utter and entire uselessness. In her carriage
or her sleigh, under lier pile of silver fox skins;
on a Tuesday at the Francis, and on a Saturday
at the Grand Opera ; on lier Thursdays at
her ' cinq heures,' when the most exclusive
of crowds gathered in her drawing-rooms ;
in the few great assemblies and balls to which
she deigned to carry her listless grace and
lier marvellous petrels ; throughout her self-absorbed
day, which began at noon and ended

at dawn, she was a cocodette of the most exquisite
grace and of the most incredible extravagance,
such as Paris had known her to be from the
second year of her marriage. Her caprices
were unending, her changefuhiess was incalculable,
her expenditure was enormous ; the
most exaggerated tales were told of her
hauteur and of her exclusiveness, yet were not
much beyond the truth ; and men worshipped
her, and women intrigued for her notice, just
because she was so unapproachable and could
be insolent. Fragile and white as the narcissus
flower, which she always took as her
emblem, with a voice ever sweet and low, and
tie most perfect manner in the world, she
could be as cruel in all the cruelties of society
as ever her ancestors had been with knout and
steel in their frosty fastnesses. It amused her
to see the timid recoil, the presumptuous
shrink, the confident wither into humiliation,
before the chillness of her smile, the terror of
her few cold softly-spoken words.

I am the only scavenger that Europe has
left,' she said once. ' All i\\Q others have been
frightened by the democracy, but I frighten
the democracy, or, at least, I keep it out of

II J

my drawing-rooms. It may get into the
'' Almanac de Gotha," but it will not get past
my Suisse and np my staircase.'

Now and then she had been known to do
exceedingly kind things, just as in the midst of
her worldly life she would go now and then to
a discourse at the Academy or to a seance at
the Sorbonne. But they had been always
done to persons quite simple and frank, who
never affronted her with presumption or disgusted
her with pretension. To a lie of any
sort she was inexorable.

The Hotel Napraxine was one of the most
delightful houses in Europe. It stood near the
entrance of the Avenue du Bois de Bologna, and
was withdrawn from every inquisitive glance
which might be cast on it from the road, within
gardens large enough to contain groves of lime
trees and plane trees, fountains, lawns, pavilions,
and terraces of rose-coloured marbles.
No disturbing echo of the traffic of Paris could
reach the sensitive ear of its sovereign lady
when she sank to sleep under the white satin
of her shell shaped ivory bed.

All the finest French artists living Ind been
summoned to its adornment within.

All modern rooms are only like so many
bonbon-boxes,' she had said. ' At least my
bonbon-boxes shall be well-painted.'

And Messenger, Darn, Baudry, Cabinet,
Jenner, Legros, had all signed some panel,
some ceiling, some staircase, chimney-piece, or
salon-wall in this most exquisite of houses.

It is really charming,' she said to herself,
when she reached it on that first grey,
chill, misty morning of her arrival, and its
delicious colour and warm air and flower-filled
twilight welcomed her after the long
dull journey across Europe. It was especially
perfect to her this day because for some fifty
hours at least her husband would not come
thither. There was only one thing ever discordant
in its perfect harmonies. When Plato
Napraxine came np the staircase  with its
black-and-white marbles, its pale-blue velvet
carpets, its sculptures by Clesinger, aid its
wall-paintings by Baudry,  when he came up
under the leaves of the bananas and the palms,
and entered her own sanctuary, his broad tall
form, his heavy step, his Kalmuck face were
dissonant and absurd in it all, and irritated
her sense of fitness, and annoyed her like a

false note in the middle of a elastic symphony.


Poor riaton ! ' .she thought more than
once ; 'I have certainly been the most expensive
whim that he has ever had; and he has
never got the slightest entertainment out of
me. I am very disagreeable to him ; I have
always been disagreeable to him. I was so at
first because I could not help it, and I am so
now because I like to be so. But I grant that
it has never been quite fair to him. He might
just as well have been all alone to amuse himself
with his dancers, and comic singers, and
people ; I have been a white elephant to him.
Certainly ]ie lias a kind of triumph in possessing
the white elephant ; lie likes to feel I am
here ; when they all look after me in the Bois,
or at the Opera, he likes to think I belong to
him. As somebody said, when people admire
what is ours, it is as if they admired us. I
am very much to him what the heu del Sevres
for which he gave ten thousand pounds must
be to Lord Dudley. The Sevres is of no
earthly use to him, and lie would scarcely dare
to touch it, and he would certainly never eat
his cutlet or have his venison served on it ; but

it is something that everybody envies him, that
nobody else has. When Plato gives great
dinners to sovereigns and all kinds of (pros hon-nets
and I am opposite to him, I am sure he
has the sort of feeling that Lord Dudley has
about that heu del service. After all, that is
something ; though, as the service Alas incomplete
in quantity, so I am incomplete in sentiment.
And then, when I meet him driving
Mdlle. Chose in the Champs Elysees, I seem as
if I did not see him ; and I never say a syllable
of objection if there are a hundred paragraphs
in the petits journaux about himself and any
number of Milles. Chose. If I had ever liked
him, I should be angry and make a fuss.
After all, he ought to know that, if indifference
be not flattery, it is peace.'

So she soothed her conscience, but not always
successfully ; she had occasionally a passing
touch of self-reproach, when she remembered
how very little she had given her husband in
return for the magnificent fortune, the boundless
admiration, and the perfect independence,
which she owed to him. She had at the
bottom of her heart, though stifled and indistinct,
a more sensitive and a higher-toned

honour than most women ; that instinct of
honour told her that she had been, at all times,
unjust and ungrateful to a man whose good
qualities she refused to see, and even did her
best to destroy, because his relation to her
irritated her taste and temper, and his ugliness
and want of intelligence filled her with disdain.


If I had a daughter,' she thought, in those
moments of candour and compunction, ' I think
I should say to her, " Commit any sin and incur
any sorrow you like rather than make a marriage
without sympathy ; it is the one crime
which society has agreed to applaud as an act
of wisdom and of virtue ; but it is a crime
nevertheless. One is so young, one does not
know ; one listens to people who urge all the
advantages of it, and when one does know it
is too late." However,' she added in her own
musings, ' I dare say, if I had daughters, when
they were old enough, I should do just the
same as everybody eke does ; I should want
them to make a heaii mariage and I should
tell them to do it. It is the world which
makes one like that. At the fair of Novgorod
I once saw a little Simbirsh peasant arrested

for stealing a necklace of blue and yellow
beads ; she burst out sobbing, and said she
would not have taken it, but all the girls of
her village had all their bio beads, and she had
none ! In the big world wee do the same.
We want the big beads because other people
have theirs. It is paltry ; but then society is
paltry at its best. They say, when you have
entered an opium house, you may have made
all the resolutions you will against smoking,
you cannot keep them, the atmosphere gains
on you, you yield, and smoke, and sink, like
all the rest. The world is an opium house.'

Nature had designed her for something
better than the opium house. Her intellect,
her courage, and her chastity where all of great
and fine quality, like the burnished blade
of a sword, that is at once delicate and strong.
But the world had absorbed her, and left little
scope to those higher and nobler instincts. She
was in her habits and her tastes a mere
elegance indolent, hard to please, hypercritical,
of languid constitution, of infinite egotism.
Given the impetus, this languor could alter, as
by magic, into ardour, force, and energy ; but
the motive power could rarely be found which

could rouse her, and lie remained for the most
part of her time a mere fontaine, of exquisite
taste, of Irresistible seduction, but useless, idle,
contemptuous, cynical, vaguely disappointed,
though all were at her feet, wanting, petulantly,
like Alexander, more worlds to conquer.
Sometimes in the ennui of the whole thin,
and her dissatisfaction in it, she was only restrained
from absolute evil by the consciousness
of its vulgarity, and her ovvn aversion to
those indulgences in which most find their
strongest temptation, but in vhicli she only
saw a humiliating and a grotesque affinity to
the brutes.

As at four years old she had shrugged her
small shoulders, with a sigh, before the bonbon
boxes  ' E'en ai tant ! '  so at four-and-twenty
years old she Alas supercilious to the Avhole
world because it had given her so much, and
yet had nothing better than that to give. And
incredulous that there was anywhere anything
better, she lived in her calorifere-heated rooms,
like an orchid in a hothouse, and amused
herself as with a game by the desires, the pains,
the reproaches, the solicitations, the jealousies,
which fretted and fumed themselves in that

arena of lier salon, whilst she remained as
tranquil, as pitiless, and as indifferent as fate.

Jo woman had the world more completely
beneath her feet, yet she, like Othmar, was
consumed by that eternal ennui which is the
penalty of those who possess too much, have
seen and heard too much too early, and have
been from childhood the objects of adulation
and of speculation ;  of all those, indeed, who
have mind and heart enough not to find all
their interests in society, and yet have not that
poetic temper which would give them a sure
consolation and a safe refuge in the enclosing
loveliness of nature.

Ennui is unjustly looked upon as the characteristic
of the frivolous type of humanity ;
on the contrary, the frivolous character is
perfectly content with frivolity, and never tires
of it. Ennui is rather the mark of those whose
taste is too fine and whose instincts are too
high to let them be satisfied with the excitement
of, and the victories of, society, and yet
Who have too little of that simplicity, or of that
impersonality, which makes the artistic temperament
capable of entirely Withdrawing from
the world and having its own life, self sustained.

This delicate patrician had the seed in her
of great roues  of dauntless conspirators, of
haughty territorial tyrants, of men and of
women who had emptied thrones and filled
them, and given law for life and death to
multitudes of vassals ; she could not be altogether
content with the rosewater politics of
modern drawing-rooms, with the harmless
rivalry of toilettes and equipages, with the
trivial pastimes and as trivial passions of society.
She was a woman of the world to the tips of
her fingers, yet she could not be altogether
content with an existence of Courts, chiffons
flirtations, endless entertainments, and unlimited
expenditure.

They find us eccentric, capricious, autocratic,
us Eussians,' she said one day. ' I daresay
we are so ; they forget that, not a century ago,
our great-grandparents were slaying Paul and
Peter in their palaces, and could knout to death
whole villages of men, women, and children, at
their mere freak and fancy. I think it is very
creditable to us not to be a thousand times
worse than we are ; our blood is made up of
track and of ice ; we are the rude pines of the
north French-polished ! '

It was three o'clock in the day ; she liacl
given orders to be undisturbed. She had slept
admirably for eight hours without any morphine.
She had bathed twice, on her arrival and on
her awaking, in warm water, opaque with otto
of rose ; she had breakfasted off her usual cup
of cream and rolls made of milk. She was ina
dreamy, drowsy, amused state of thought ;
and, as she lay on her couch in the boudoir,
which was placed between her library and her
dressing chamber, her thoughts drifted persistently
to the meeting of the dawn.

She felt very like Fate now, as she thought
how odd it was that the first person she had
met in Paris had been Othmar.

He is very much changed for so short a
time. He is not a whit more content,' she
reflected, with pleasure.

The little room was the prettiest thing in
all Paris. ' It is a casket for a pearl,' one of
her adorers had said, and it seemed really a
pity that for eight months out of the year the
casket should be closed, and no ray of light
ever enter it. Its furniture was of ivory,
like that of the adjoining library, bed-room,
and bathroom, and its hangings were of silvery

satin embroidered with pale roses and apple-blossoms
; Baudry lead painted the ceiling with
the story of don and Process : the glass in
the windows was milk white, and the floor was
covered with white bearskins : the atmosphere
was like that of a hothouse, and as odorous ;
there were always a perfect seclusion and
silence in it ; the only sound which ever
came there was the splash of a fountain in the
garden below ; it might have been set in the
heart of the island of Alcina rather than in one
of the great avenues of Paris. Here, lying back
on one of her low couches with the air around
her tropical, vaporous, dreamy, she mused within
herself as to how she would deal with Othmar,
a smile in her eyes and a doubt in her mind,

Let him alone,' said her conscience.

Xo,' said her vanity, and perhaps some
other emotion also.

He never harmed you ; he only loved
you, and obeyed you, and went away,' her
conscience urged on her. But her vanity
replied : ' That was the worst offence. There
are commands which are most honoured by
disobedience. There are wounds which ought
to be cherished, not healed.'

Unless she chose that it should be otherwise,
Othmar, she knew, would be a stranger
to her all his life. They would meet, perhaps,
in the world very often, but they would exchange
commonplace courtesy, and remain
as far asunder as two ships that pass each
other on the same ocean course, unless she
chose. Her better self said to her, 'Let him
alone ; he has tried to make another life for
himself; he has failed, no doul)t, but he has
probably found a sort of peace, a kind of
affection ; if it can console him, do not disturb
it.' But the habits of supremacy and. of intrigue,
the love of dominion, the intolerance of
opposition, vrhich were instinctive in her, and
which all her many triumphs and her permitted
egotism lead fostered and confirmed, forbade
her to resign herself to such passivity, and
urged her to take up her empire over his life.

And she had a vague wish to see him there
again beside her, a wish not very strong, but
strong enough to move lier. It was here, in
this room, that he had first of all told her that
he loved her, with words more daring and more
imperious than any other lead ventured to use
in her presence ; he Acis never like other

people ; ' he was probably no better, certainly
no worse, than other men, but he was different
: he pleased her imagination, he touched
her sympathy ; he was the only man with whom
it had ever seemed to her that her life might
have been lived harmoniously, with whom she
might have understood something of that mystery
of love in which she had never believed.
To her temper it was the intrigue and intricacy
of life which alone made it endurable, the unrolling
of the ribbon of fate, the watching and
controlling of the comedy of circumstances,
which alone made it worth while to rise in the
morning to the tedium of its routine.

Is life worth living ? ' she said once, hearing
of the title of a book of drawing-room
philosophy. ' Yes, I think it is, if you are the
cat, if you are the spider, if you are the eagle,
if you are the dog ; not if you are the mouse,
or the fly, or the lamb, or the hare. Life is
certainly worth living, too, if you regard it as
what it is, a dramatic entertainment, diversion.
This is the true use of riches, that it enables
you to give yourself up to watching and controlling
circumstances as if men and women
were marionettes ; it enables you to sit in your

fauteuil and look on without moving unless you
wish. I think that life must be always rather
tiresome to anybody over ten years old, but
the only possible way to endure it is to regard
it as a spectacle, as a comedy, or, as ManteufTel
has said, that a general sitting in his saddle regards
the battlefield he governs.'

This was wdiat she said and felt in her
cynical moods, and she was cynical now on her
return to Paris ; she had left her better self
behind her in the snow-drifts of her own
country. The woman who had spoken so tenderly
of Boganof scarcely existed in her ; she
lived in an atmosphere of adulation, excitation,
ennui, and frivolous occupations. Time
heroic protectress of the Siberian exile had
scarcely a trait in common with her ; she
spent half the day in the discussion of new
costumes with her tailors, and the other half
surrounded by flatterers and courtiers in the
pursuit of new distractions.

Analysis was so natural t(.) her that it seemed
to her in no situation or even crisis of her life
would she have abandoned it. There is a well-known
physiologist, now head of a famous
laboratory, who, when his son died, a boy of

VOL. III. I

twelve, scarcely waited for the child's last
breath to plunge his scalpel into the still warm
body in hopes of some discovery of the law of
life's If she had had any emotions she would
have done a similar thing ; she would have
dissected them even if they had sprung from
her own life blood.

 A fact.

CHAPTEE Xxxiii.

Is Madame Kapraxine a good woman ? ' said
Yseulte timidly one day in her own drawing-room
to Melville, whilst she coloured to the
eyes as she pronounced the name.

Good, my dear ! ' echoed Friederich othman,
who overheard and replied to the question.
The epithet is comically incongruous. She
would be as horrified if she heard you as if you
called her ma bourgeois'

Melville laughed a little despite himself,
and hesitated before giving his own reply : he
was embarrassed. Hove could he as a priest
say to this innocent creature what he as a
man of the world knew to be the truth ;
that the simple classifications of good and bad
can no more suffice to describe the varieties of
human character than the shepherd's simple
names for herl) and flower can suffice for the
botanist's floral nomenclature and complicated
subdivisions.

I 2

She lias very noble qualities,' he said at
length. ' Perhaps they are somewhat obscured
by the habits of the world. She is of an
exceedingly complicated character. I fear I
scarcely know her well enough to describe
her with perfect correctness. But I know some
noble acts of her life ; one I may tell you.'

And he related to her the episode of Bog-anon.


Yseulte listened with wonder : to her youthful
imagination her one enemy appeared in
all the dark hues with which youth ever paints
what it dislikes and dreads, exaggerated like
the rainbow light with which it decks what it
loves. All the highest instincts of her nature
were touched to sympathy by what she now
heard, but a pain of which Melville knew
nothing contracted her heart as she thought
that if her husband had indeed loved such a
woman as this, it was natural that she would forever
retain her power on him.

And she is so beautiful ! ' she added, with
a little sigh. Melville looked at her in surprise.


Who has been talking to her ? ' he
wondered as he said aloud :

There are women more beautiful. You
have but to look in your mirror, my child.
But she has a surpassing grace, an incomparable
fascination, some of which springs,
perhaps, from her very defects. She is a
woman essentially of the modern type, all
nerves and scepticism intermingled ; ironical,
incredulous, indifferent, yet capable of heroic
coups de tete; dissatisfied, with the worldly life
and yet incapable of living any other ; the
Bene of Chateaubriand, made female and left
without a God.'

Except her tailor!' said Friederich Othmar,
who approached the little nook in which Melville
was seated in the boudoir.

Pardon me,' said Melville, with a smile.
Madame Napraxine's tailor is but her slave,
like every one else whom she employs or
encounters. The king of couriers trembles
before her, he is so afraid of her displeasure ; if
she blame his creations they are ruined. She
makes la plume et le heart temps in the world of
fashion.'

And yet she could do what you say for that
unhappy man in Siberia ? ' murmured Yseulte,
who had listened with seriousness and some

PRINCESS NAPRAXINE.

perplexity to all that had been said of one in
whom her instinct felt was the enemy of her
life.

You should understand a character which
is made up of contradictions, my dear,' interrupted
the Baron ; ' for you have one beside
you every day in Otho's. Your own is formed
with just a few broad, simple, fair lines, ruled
very straight on the old pattern, which was in
use before the Revolution, or even farther back
than that, in the days of Anne of Bretagne and
of Blanche of Castille. But your husband's 
and some other people's  is a tangled mass of
unformed desires and of widely-opposed qualities
which are for ever in conflict, and are as unsatisfactory
and as indefinite as any impression-iste's
picture.'

Yseulte did not hear ; she was absorbed in
her own reflections ; her face was very grave.

M. le Baron, you cannot have everything,'
said Melville, gaily. ' Your age has destroyed
the femme croyante. Nature, which always
avenges herself, gives you the femme du monde,
which, in its lowest stages, becomes the caroline,
and in its highest just such an ethereal,
capricious, tantalising combination of the finest

culture and the most languid scepticism, as
captivates and tortures her world in the person
of the Princess Napraxine.'

Excuse me in my turn if I say that you are
quite mistaken,' said Friederich Othmar. ' The
two species of womankind have existed since the
days of Athens and of Eome, and modern theology
and modern scepticism have nothing to do
with either of them. Penelope and Circe are as
old as the islands and the seas. If you will not
find me impertinent, I cannot help saying that
ecclesiastics always remind me of the old story
(I think it is in Moore's Diary) of the grazier's
son who went to Switzerland, and was only
impressed by one fact  that bullocks were very
cheap there. Christianity is a purely modern
thing. What are eighteen centuries in the
history of the world? Yet every churchman
refers every virtue and every vice of human
nature to the influence or the absence of this
purely modern creed, which has, after all, not
one tenth of the magnetic power of absorption
of Buddhism and nothing like the grasp on the
mind of a multitude which Islamism has
possessed.'

Friederich Othmar had always an especial

pleasure in teaziiig Melville, and in contemplating
the address with which the trained
talent of the theologian vaulted over the difficulties
which his reason was forced to acknowledge.


As Melville was about to reply, the groom
of the chambers entered and announced
Madame la Princesse Napraxine.'

Yseulte rose with a startled look upon her
young face, which was not yet trained to conceal
what she felt beneath that mask of serenity
and smiling indifference which makes the most
impenetrable of all masks. Her cheeks flushed,
her eyes had a momentary look of bewilderment.
She did not hear the words of graceful
greeting with which her visitor answered the
courtesy she mechanically made.

Melville, who himself felt a little guilty,
hastened to her rescue, and the Baron, as he
rolled a low chair for the newcomer, thought
to himself, ' What a pity Otho is not here ; it
is always better to have those situations gone
through, and over. The poor child !  so happy
as she has been ! It will be a pity if Circe
come. But Circe always comes. How can
Melville pretend that Circe is anything new, or

has only sprung into existence because women
do not go to church ! Madame Napraxine is
precisely the same kind of chartreuse that
Propertius used to write odes to on his tablets ;
the type was more consistent then, because in
our days costume is incongruous, and life is
more complicated, and people are more tired,
but it remains internally the same

Nadine Napraxine meanwhile was saying :
Your people were unwilling to let me in
because it was not your day ; but I insisted.
When one desires a thing very much one
always insists till one gets it. I find Paris
talking of nothing but the Countess Othmar ; I
was eager to claim from her the privilege of an
old friend.'

It was said with sweetness, apparent frankness,
and all her OAvn inimitable grace. She
lightly touched, with the softest, slightest kiss,
the cheeks of Yseulte, which grew warm and
then cold. Not appearing to notice her
embarrassment, Nadine Napraxine continued
to string her pretty, careless, courteous phrases
together with that tact which is the most useful
and the most graceful of all the talents.
Yseulte had all a girl's embarrassment before

her, and that dignity which was an instinct in
her became, by contrast, almost stiffness.

Someone has told her of me,' thought Nadine,
with amusement and irritation combined.
It at once offended her and pleased her that she
should be a source of pain to this girl  to how
many women had she been so, and without
mercy ! Well, why would they not learn to
keep to themselves the wandering thoughts of
their lovers and their lords? 'This child is
beautiful,' she said to herself with candour;
'how can she fail with him. No doubt she
loves him herself; men are not thankful.
Tenez la dragee haute is the only motto for
their subjection.'

She studied Yseulte with attention and
interest, and without malice. She frankly
admired this beauty so different to her own;
this union of high-bred stateliness and childish
naivete which seemed to her just such a
manner as some young chatelaine of some old
Breton or Norman tower would have had in
the days of the Seine Isabel ; she did full
justice to it. The irritation she had felt when
she had walked in the moonlight through the
orrass lands at Zaraizoff, and thought of the

chateau of Amyot, had ceased the moment
that she had entered the atmosphere of Paris.
Othmar had believed that he had been cold as
marble in that momentary meeting, but she
had seen in it that her power over him was
undiminished. She knew very well that soon
or late he who had defied her would be once
more as a reed in her hands. She was in no
haste to try her force ; she could rely on it in
the calmness of certainty. She was very
amiable to his wife ; but she had a little touch
of good-natured condescension in her amiability
which made the pride of the girl shrink asunder
an affront which could not be resented ;
the very young always suffer under a kindness
which tacitly reminds them, by its unspoken
superiority, of their OAvn inexperience and their
own defects. The ironical smile, the slight
suggestive phrases, the very indulgence, as to
a child, of Nadine ISTapraxine were as so many
thorns in the heart of Yseulte, who had none
of that vanity which might have rendered her
indifferent to them.

It was not so much an emotion, but a certain
sentiment  half interest, half irritation 
which brought her to the great house of

which, in a moment of impulse, he had made
this child mistress. ' They try to give it a
false air of home,' she thought, with her merciless
accuracy of penetration, ' but they do not
succeed. It is always a barn  a barn gilded
and painted like Versailles : but a barn. Perhaps
they succeed better at Amyot, and
perhaps they do not. He always hated this
huge house, and he was very right in his
taste. It is made to entertain in, not to be
happy in. If he were happy he would go faraway
to that castle by the blue Adrian Sea that
I saw within a few leagues of Miramar.'

With that thought she had gone through
the succession of great rooms, grand and uninteresting'
as the rooms of the Escurial, until she
had reached one of the drawing-rooms, with its
painted panels of children romping in orchards
and gardens, and there had found Yseulte sitting
at her tapestry like some young dame of
the time of Bayard or the Beauvais, a large
hound at her feet, the two old men beside her.

What colouring ! She is like a pastel of
Emile Levy's ! ' she had thought, with an appreciation
which was entirely sincere, as she kissed
the girl's reluctant, roseleaf-hke cheek : she

really felt not the slightest ill-will towards her ;
on the contrary, she was moved to a compassion,
none the less genuine that it was based on
something very like disdain ; the disdain of the
wise for the simple, of the certainly victorious
for the predestined vanquished, of the snake-charmer
for those who let the snake kill them.

With her most charming grace, with that
seduction which made it impossible for anyone
in her presence to be her enemy, she renewed
her acquaintance with the wife of Othmar,
speaking pretty and gracious words of recognition
and of admiration. Yseulte preserved a
self-control admirable for one so young, to
whom the necessities for such reserve were a
new and painful lesson ; but she was unable
to keep the change of colour in her cheeks,
and the expression in her candid eyes betrayed
her to the quick perception of her guest.

You have come to honour Paris, Princess ? '
said the Baron, to cover the embarrassment
and the constraint of Yseulte.

One always comes to Paris, Baron,' answered
Nadine Napraxine, raising her eyeglass
and gazing at the girl through it, with all the
cruel, careless scrutiny of a woman of the

world ; her luminous eyes wanted no assistance
of the sort, but it was a weapon  unkind asa
dagger on occasion. ' One always comes to
Paris. It is the toy-shop where we dolls of the
world get mended when we are battered and
bruised. We come for our hair, for our teeth,
for our complexions ; at any rate, for our
gowns ; and then when we arrive we remain.
The Republic may push its iron roller, as Berlioz
says it does, over the world ; it rolls on
wheels of lead ; but it cannot prevent Paris
from being always an empire, and always the
urbs for us. I do not love Paris as passionately
as most Eussians do, yet even I admit that
there is no other city where one finds so little
monotony. Even in Paris, alas ! as Marivaux
said long ago, everybody has two eyes, one
nose, and one mouth, and one sighs in vain fora
little variety of outline.'

If I remember,' said the Baron, ' Marivaux
was more merciful to humanity than is Madame
Napraxine ; he admitted that even with such
homely materials as two eyes, a nose, and a
mouth, one could obtain infinite variety in
expression ; no two physiognomies are alike.'

Perhaps in Marivaux's time men did not

imitate the chic anglais ! ' said Machine Napraxine.
I see very little variety myself. Everybody is
terribly like everyone else, except the Comtesse
Othmar,' she added, with her charming smile,
who is only like Hope nursing Love, or some
other picture of a fairer day than ours.'

Yseulte, pained at herself for her want of
self-command, coloured hotly under the compliment,
in which her alarmed sensitiveness
fancied there was hidden a sarcasm. She did
not know of what picture Nadine Napraxine
spoke, and she thought  ' Does she mean that
Hope was barren and foolish, that Love did not
care ? ' She remembered the silver adoring
and the empty gourd.

Directly appealed to, a moment later, she
murmured something at random ; she did not
well know what ; she grew first pale, then red ;
she seemed constrained and stupid, void of
ideas, and stiff in manner. Friederich Othmar
could have broken his cane about her shoulders
in his vexation.

Heavens and earth ! ' he thought, ' if you
let yourself be magnetised at the first sight of
an imagined rival, what will you do before the
reality when you meet it ? My poor Httle girl !

It is not the women who adore a man, and are
struck dumb because they see another woman
whom he has once loved, who obtain any influence
over him, or possess any charm whatever
for him. Who is to tell you that? who is to
open your eyes and harden your heart ? who is
to make you understand that you are as lovely
as the morning, but that if you do not acquire
self-control, wit, indifference, all the armoury
of the world's weapons, she will pass over you
as artillery sweeps over the daisy in the grass.'

But he could not say his impatient thoughts
aloud ; he could not even, by his own readiness
of language and easy persiflage, contrive
wholly to hide the uneasiness and restraint
which the presence of her guest brought upon
Yseulte, and which she herself was at once too
young and too frank to dissemble. They
amused the Princess Xapraxine, and they gratified
her infinitely. She had not the slightest
pity for them; she had never suffered from any
such awkwardness herself.

'You are cruel. Princess,' Melville ventured
to murmur as he rose and bade her adieu.

Have you only now discovered that ? ' said
Nadine. ' And I do not know why you should

discover it especially now, or why, even if it
were truth, you should be in any way astonished.
Thirty years of the confessional should
have taught you that women are always cruel.
Are you never cruel ? ' she said aloud, turning
to Yseulte. ' Ah, then, your dog will disobey
you and your horse run away with you, my
dear Countess ! '

Is there no power in affection ? ' said
Yseulte bravely, feeling her colour come and
go, and conscious that she had made an absurd
reply.

Madame Napraxine smiled with a little look
of indulgent amusement, which made the girl
thrill to the tips of her fingers.

'You are still in the age of illusions, my
love. I dare say you even write poetry. Do
you not write poetry ? I am sure you must
have a little velvet book and a silver pencil
somewhere. It is so delightful to see anyone
so young,' she added, with seriousness, to
Friederich Othmar. ' The children are not
young now, are never young. I do not think
I ever was ; I have no recollection of it. If I
had daughters, I would send them to those
Dames de Sainte Anne  away in Brittany, is it

VOL. III. K

not?  if it be they who have made your
nephew's wife what she is. I did not believe
there was any place left, simple enough and
sweet and solemn enough to make a girlhood
like a garden lily. Othmar has been very
happy to have gathered the lily.'

There were both reality and admiration in
many of her words, but the last phrase was not
so sincere. Yseulte, overhearing, thought, with
a pang, ' She knows that he is not happy ! '
Her heart swelled. She felt that this exquisite
woman, so little her senior in actual years, so
immeasurably her superior in knowledge, tact,
and power, laughed at her even as she praised
her. 'How could she know that I wrote
poetry ? ' thought the child, conscious of many
a poor little verse, the unseen, carefully-hidden,
timid offspring of a heart too full, written with
a pencil in the leafy recesses of the woods of
AmyCt, in that instinctive longing for adequate
expression which is born of a great love. The
chance phrase gave Racine Xapraxine in her
sight all the irresistible fascination of a magician.
She felt as if those languid, luminous
eyes could read all the secrets of her soul 
secrets so innocent, all pregnant with the

memory of Othmar  secrets pure, wholesome,
and harmless as the violets that the mosses hid
ill the Yalois woods of Amyot.

Well, what do you think of her ? ' asked
Friederich Othmar when she had left the
house. Yseulte hesitated.

I can believe that she has a great charm,'
she answered with some effort. ' She has a
fascination that one feels whether one will
or no '

She paused and unconsciously sighed.

She is the greatest chartreuse in Europe,'
replied Friederich Othmar. ' Xo other words
describe her. She is not a Cleopatra or a
Mary Stuart. She would never have had an
Actium or a Kirk's Field. She would never
have so blundered. She has no passions ;
she would be a better woman if she had.
She is entirely chaste only because she is absolutely
indifferent. It creates her immense
power over men. She remains ice while she
casts them into hell.' He stopped abruptly,
remembering to whom he spoke, and added,
Her visit was a most rare honour to you, my
dear ; she seldom deigns to go in person anywhere
; her servants leave her cards, and the

k2

fortunate great ladies who are the recipients
of them may go and see her on her day, and
take their chance of receiving a few Y>'ords
from lier. She is one of those exceptional
women who have no intimate friends of their
own sex, or hardly any ; men '

He paused, asked leave to light a cigarette,
and walked with it awhile about the room.
Yseulte did not take up his unfinished phrase
by an interrogation.

Have you no inquisitiveness ? ' thought
Friederich Othmar. She was, indeed, full of
restless and painful curiosity concerning the
woman who had just left her presence, but she
would not allow herself to utter a word of it.
She thought it would be disloyalty to her
husband.

Some fifteen minutes later Othmar himself
entered.

Madame lapraxine has just honoured us
in propria persona' said the Baron, looking at
him with intention.

Indeed ! ' said Othmar. ' It was most
amiable of her,' he added, after a moment's
pause ; but to the penetration or to the imagination
of his uncle it seemed that he spoke

with embarrassment and annoyance. Yseulte
had resumed her work at her tapestry. The
cruel sense that she was not wanted there, that
she had been brought there only out of pity, asa
kind hand gives a stray animal a home,
weighed on her more and more. She did not
see all that others saw in her ; all the attraction
of her youth, and her innocence and her
beauty. She had too sincere a humility for
any idea of her own charms to console her.
She was wise enough to perceive that the
world flattered her because she was a rich
man's wife, but in her own eyes she remained
the same that she had been under the grey
shadows of Faiel.

If I where only myself again tomorrow,
they would never think of me,' she said to
herself, with a wisdom born out of the
poverty and obscurity in which her childish
years had been spent. She was passionately
grateful to Othmar, as well as devoted to him ;
but the suggestion that she was in no way
necessary to his happiness, was even a burden
and a constraint to him, had been harshly set
before her by the words of Blanchette, and it
was corroborated by a thousand trifles of look,

and speech, and accident. His very entrance
into her room had nothings of the warmth of a
man who returns to what he loves ; he came
there so evidently because he felt that courtesy
and custom required it of him.

The Baron understood what was passing in
her thoughts as she bent her fair head over
her tapestry-frame, the severity of her black
velvet gown serving to enhance, by its contrast,
the whiteness of her throat, the youthfulness
of her features, the suppleness and
vigour of her form. He longed to say to her,
My child, do not fret because he is no longer
your lover  is even, perhaps, that of someone
else ; it is always so in marriage, even in
love. There is always one who cares long,
and one who cares little. It will not matter
to you in the end ; you will learn to lead
your own life ; you will have your children.
I do not think you will have your lovers, as
most of them do, but you will get reconciled
to accepting life on a lower plane than your
youthful imagination placed it on at first.'

He would have liked to say that, and much
more, to her, but he did not venture. She
made no confidence, no appeal for sympathy ;

and after all, for aiiglit lie knew, she might be
entirely content with her husband's ardour, or
his lack of it. She was but a child still, and
had little knowledge of the passions of men.

Othmar did not say that he had met his
wife's guest as she left his house.

She had given him her prettiest smile.

The Countess Othmar is quite lovely ; and
what a perfect manner ! ' she had said. ' What
does she say to all your pessimism, to all your
hostages? Does she understand them? You
must send her to hear a course of Caro. Her
mind can hardly be metaphysical yet. She is
at the age to eat bonbons and expect caresses.'

Then she had made him a little careless
sign of farewell, and her black horses had borne
her through the great gates of gilded bronze
of the house which always seemed to him
oppressive as a gaol. The words were harmless,
playful, amiable ; yet they had annoyed
him. He understood that she ridiculed his
marriage, and that she divined that it had but
little place in his affections, and as little hold
upon his tho eights.

Poor child ! ' he had said involuntarily, ashe
mounted his staircase to enter the presence
of Yseulte.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

When Nadine Napraxine came into her boudoir
on New Year's day, she smiled a little to see it
blocked with flowers. She had always discountenanced
any other gifts than flowers.
Whoever had presumed to offer her anything
else would have run the risk of having his
name struck off her list of acquaintances.

All those ijros cadeaux are so vulgar,' she
was wont to say. ' A branch of lilac  a tea-rose
 no tiling else. No ; you must not send
the lilac in a cloisonne Limoges vase, or the
roses in a repousse silver bowl ; I should send
you your vase or your bowl back to you ; you
have no kind of right to suppose that I want
vases or bowls ; but just the branch, just the
rose, you may send if you like.'

They trembled, and dared not disobey ;
the lilacs or the roses came by the scores,
with the greatest names of Europe attached to
them ; and her courtiers managed ingeniously

to spend many thousands of francs by means
of the rarest of the orchids, fulfilling her commands
in the letter, though breaking them in
the spirit.

She smiled now as she came into her
favourite room this morning, when fog and
frost together reigned without. All the orchid
world was there to welcome her, brilliant and
ethereal as the hues of sunrise.

They love to be extravagant,' she thought,
with a little contempt. ' If one limit them to
flowers they manage to spend as much as if
they bought jewels. It is very vulgar, all that
sort of thing. If I cared for any one of them,
I think I should like him to bring me a little
bunch of corn-cockles  just by way of change.'

She glanced here and there at a name,
but, for the most part, did not even trouble
herself to look who was the sender of this or
of that.

Best toute la hande I ' she murmured, with
an impatient amusement, knowing that every
man in Paris, with rank sufficient to be able to
dare to do so, had sent his floral tribute there.

She rang for her favourite servant Paul ;
when he appeared she said to him, ' Take all

those cards off those baskets and bouquets ; they
look as if they were ticketed for a horticultural
show.' So Paul, obedient, swept away the visiting
cards with his swift and silent touch, and
the senders of them were not even honoured
by her caring to know their names ; their gifts
were all blended in one mass of blossom as
indifferent to her as themselves.

Paul, as he retired with the cards crushed
in his hand, thought to himself with grim
amusement, 'If only those heaiix messieurs
would understand that Nadege Fedorowna cares
no more for any one of them than she will
care for those flowers when they are yellow
and withered tomorrow.'

If somebody would bring me the corn-cockles
! ' she herself thought, with a little
laugh.

At that moment there came a timid tap on
the door which separated her boudoir from the
great salons. She recognised it with a little
shiver, such as a nervous woman will give
when she sees an unpleasant or uncouth animal ;
only she was not nervous herself; she was
merely impressionable and irritated.

Come in,' she said impatiently.

The door opened behind the satin hangings,
and Plato Napraxine entered.

How many times must I request you to
pay me the common respect of sending to know
if I be visible ? ' she said, with that hauteur
which he dreaded, as a prisoner in the fortress
of Peter and Paul dreads the sioht of the
knout.

I beg your pardon,' he murmured humbly.
It is not our day, but I thought you would
allow me to take advantage of the French New
Year to  to  to bring you a little gift. Do
not be angry, Nadine '

He spoke very submissively and with a
timidity which made his high-coloured cheeks
grow paler. He had for many a year abandoned
all hope of being any nearer to the woman who
was his wife than the marble of the steps which
she descended to her carriage ; yet he could not
help having, every now and then, a foolish
impulse to approach her in affection, a wistful
fancy that perhaps  perhaps  at last

He laid on her knee as he spoke a velvet
case, with her crown and initials in gold upon
it.

My dear Plato, what nonsense I ' she said,

with some real annoyance, and she murmured
to herself : ' In half an hour he will take something
similar to half a dozen cocottes ! '

But she could do no less than open the case,
which was filled by a necklace, earrings, and a
small crown for the hair in pink pearls.

Plato Napraxine watched her wistfully as
she looked at them with a listless indifference.
If he could only please her once ! If he could
only once see that beautiful contemptuous
mouth smile kindly on him.

There is not one of them worth her little
finger,' he thought, meaning the companions
and consolers of his life.

I think you have no pink pearls ; it is the
only thing you have not,' he said ; as humble
still as a chidden dog. ' Will you not let me
wish you bonne fete Nadine ? I '

He took her hand and carried it to his
lips. She drew it away, not angrily, but with
a profound indifference.

I cannot see why one day in the year is
any more than another, that we should make
speeches upon it,' she said, shutting up the
jewel case. ' The pearls are quite charming.
It is too good of you. Only, you know I

do not in the least see wh) you should give me
things ; I really do not want them '

It was the  pen ai tant' of her five-year-old
philosophy.

I know you do not want them,' said her
husband with a blank sense of foolish disappointment,
foolish because his hope had been
foolish. ' But still most women never have
jewels enough. I do not mean that I ever
thought you would care for them, but still it
is the custom  and  one never likes the day
to go by,  if you would say a kind word '

'My dear Plato,' she said wearily, yet
with a certain amusement at his stupidity,
why will you persist in that superstition that
one day is any more than all the others ?  and
not even a Eussian day either ! You, who are
such a Slavophil, should have ignored a French
New Year's day as quite pagan and indecent.
The pearls are very pretty ; I will put them
on to-night, if that will please you. Only 
only  you know I am not very fond of that
sort of presents. Are you sure you have not
another similar case in your pocket that you
are going to take this morning to that very
handsome new house in the Avenue Villiers ?

All the houses are new there, but that is
newest '

Napraxine coloured dully with a dual
sense of embarrassment and ridicule.

He was silent.

Are you sure ? ' said his wife, with her
head leaning back on her cushions and her
demure smile gleaming beneath the lashes of
her half-closed eyelids.

JSTadine ! ' stammered Napraxine, in mingled
discomfiture and eagerness, which made him
blunder more and more. ' What can one do
when you  you,  as God is above us, if you
had not turned me adrift years ago as if I
were a monster, I would never have looked at
another woman. You do not believe it, but I
would not. Even noah, I would leave them all
if you said a word,  if  if '

She rose and laid the case of pearls down
on a table near her.

'My dear Prince,' she said in her chest tones,
though, in her own heart, she could very willingly
have laughed aloud, 'I see you have
indeed mistaken your road to the Avenue de
Villiers. Do you think you can purchase
my  kindness  as you do that of your mistresses?

Pray let this be the last of such
blunders. You have not been guilty of them for
many years. Do not begin now. They offend
me. You will only ruffle, very disagreeably
and uselessly, the amiable understanding on
which we have agreed to live.'

When did I ever agree ? '

His face was darkly flushed, his voice was
husky and had a tremor in it, something
savage and imperious began to wake in him
and tell him that after all this delicate and
disdainful woman was his ;  but her languid
lids opened wholly, and her calm, luminous
eyes looked him full in the face with that look
with which the keeper can daunt, by sheer
power of will, the animal which could trample
him into dust and tear him into atoms.

Pray, do not let us re-open a discussion
which has been closed for six years,' she said in
her softest, coldest voice. ' I am quite sure
you meant well ; I never bear malice ; I will
wear your pearls to-night. We have a dinner,
I think ; for d'Aumale, is it not ? Bonne fete,
mon ami. Think what a troubled life you
would have if I cared about that new house,
and be grateful. Please send Paul here. He

must take away some of this lilac. So mull
of it will give me migraine!

IN'apraxine stifled as best he could some
oath which he dared not utter aloud, and
went slowly and sullenly out of her presence,
sensible of an ignominious dismissal. His
glance as he went dwelt with suspicion on the
baskets and bouquets which made the room
and the adjoining rooms gardens of orchids
and odontoglossum, of gardenias and of tea-roses.


'Is there one among them,' he thought,
for idiom she cares ? '

He was nothing to her : but he would be
something to such an one if ever he could find
his foe.

He was hurt, wounded, humiliated, infuriated,
all in one ; conscious of a defeat
which made him grotesque in her sight, sensible
of an act of unwisdom and of sentimentality
which had only placed him lower than
ever in the estimation of a woman whom he
was furiously conscious that he still loved and
still desired.

When the hangings of the door lead closed
behind him, his wife laughed with an amusement

which her sense of courtesy had controlled
before, and put a tea-rose in the bosom of her
gown.

How stupid, how intensely stupid, to come
to me as he goes to his cocottes she thought,
with that irritation and ennui which were
the only emotions which he ever aroused in
her. ' And to renew that sort of argument as
if we were two green grocers having at Montmartre
! Decidedly, when the hon Dieu made
poor Plato, he left out of his composition
every vestige of tact ; and really tact is the
only quality that it is absolutely necessary for
everybody to have to prevent them from
irritating others. Who could have imagined
that after six years he would begin again like
that !  he has always a little access of tenderness
at the end of the year ; last time he gave
me a dreadful Chinese idol as big as himself
with green eyes ; some dealer had told him it
was very precious : lie did not know, he never
knows ; I wonder if there were anybody so
stupid in all the world ; I am only astonished
that he did not send for Sachs and Mitzz as an
agreeable surprise for me ! '

Yes, Paul,' she said aloud, ' take away

VOL. III. L

most of those flowers, they make my headache
; and give that case to Jeanne to put up
in the jewel-safe. Tell Fedor that I shall want
the horses in an hour.'

How very stupid some women must be,'
she reflected often, ' to let themselves be dictated
to, and denied, and bullied, and worried
by the husbands. Nothing is so easy to
manage as a man, if you only begin in the
right way with him. All depends on how you
begin ; it is just like a horse ; if you do not
make him feel that you are his superior at
once, he will take advantage of you for ever.
I remember my mother saying to me before
my marriage : " Menage ton mari, sois bien
douce." Now, if I lead listened to her, I
should have had Plato on my shoulders all
my life ; I dare say, even, he would have expected
me to please him, and to listen to him,
and to accept all his absurdities. But I froze
him from the first ; he has always been intensely
afraid of me. Of two people there is
always one who is afraid, and I preferred that
it should be he. It just shows what mind can
do over matter.'

She looked listlessly at a pile of telegrams

which her servant had brought in with ]him
and laid on the little table near her.

They will all say the same thing,' she
thought indifferently, as lie opened two or
three which contained the usual greetings of
the New Year from her innumerable relatives
and friends in other countries and at other
courts ; no Eussian, of course, amongst them.

If people must have it that a year begins,
which is utterly absurd, why did they not take
pretty pink and white April instead of this
ugly, shivering, frost-bitten January ? ' she said
to her dog Dauphin, as she glanced through
the tedious compliments of the telegrams. At
last, amidst them, there was one which made
her change colour as she read it. It was from
Lady Brancepeth, away on her estates in the
north of England. It was only a line ; it said :

My brother has been killed on the ice in
the Gulf of S. Lawrence.'

There were no details, only the bare fact,
as it had been brought with the same crush! nos
curtness by the electric cable from the western
to the eastern shores of the Atlantic.

Nadine Napraxine read it three times
without at the first realising or behevino- it.

L 2

The news gave her a shock ; not a great
one, but still a kind of chilly pain and vague
terror. A mist swam for a moment before
her eyes ; a sorrow, which was quite sincere,
moved her as the sense of what she read
gradually grcAv more and more distinct. A
sudden remembrance smote her of Geraldine,
as she had seen him first some three years
earlier, standing on the beach at Biarritz, clad
in his blue sea-clothes, with the sun shining
full on his fair frank features and in his clear,
happy, candid eyes. He had looked at her;
his sister had beckoned to him, and had said
carelessly : ' Ealph, is it possible that you do
not know Madame Napraxine ? ' and he had
come up to them over the rough red rocks,
the sun and the vind playing in his bright
hair. And then, life had never again been
quite the same to him, and now it was over forever.
He was dead, just thirty years old !

Pauvre garon ! ' she said, with genuine
regret, as she had said the same words when
they had told her that the young Louis Napoleon
had been killed at Isandula. It was not
the regret for which the dead man, thinking
of her as the frozen night had closed in on

him and over the wastes of ice-boiuicl waters,
perchance had hoped. ' Pauvre garon ! ' she
murmured where she sat, amidst the profusion
of the flowers. For the moment she felt cold
in her room, which was as warm as a summer
day, and through whose double windows of
opalescent glass no breath of the outer air
could penetrate.

I suppose they will say I did this too ! '
she thought with impatience, her memory reverting
to the death of young Seliedoff even
whilst she said again very softly to herself,
Pauvre jargon ! '

She was sincerely sorry ; she felt nothing
of that more passionate and personal pain
which once Geraldine might not unnaturally
have hoped that his death woidd excite in her,
but a sincere regret mingled with a kind of
annoyance that men who had loved her would
always go and run some tragic risks, so that
they perished miserably ;  and then the world
blamed her

I, who detest tragedies ! ' she said to the
little dog. ' When the majority of men, too,
always live too long, live to have gout, and use
spectacles, and grow tiresome ! '

Pauvre gargoii, pauvre jargon ! ' she murmured
once more, in the only threnody which
occurred to her : how could he go and get
drowned in the S. Lawrence, where the ice was
surely as thick as in the Neva ? She had always
liked to play at being Providence to her world,
a very capricious and unkind Providence indeed,
but still one which decided their destinies
without any reference to their desires as Providence
is always permitted to do. She did not
like these rude gusts of uncalled for accident
which blew out the lives which she held in her
hand as if they were so many tapers !

Pauvre garcon ! '

He had grown very wearisome, he had
been even disposed to become exacting, he had
wearied her, and she had not known very
well how to get rid of him ; but still it was a
pity. He had had a great position, he was an
only son, his own people were very fond of
him, he was better than most of the men of his
age and rank ; she had for once the sensation
that one feels when one has broken a rare
piece of china,  the sensation of having done a
silly thing, an irreparable thing.

I never told him to go to Canada ! ' she

said to herself. No : she had only told him that
he wearied her. So he had wearied her ; he
had never been too amusing at the best of
times. It was not her fault that he had become
tiresome ; they all became so ; they had no
originality. Still it was a pity ; she saw his fair
frank face, with its eyes so blue and so wistful,
looking at her as he had stood to hear his sentence
that last day we saw La Jacquemerille.

I do not think I said anything unkind to
him that day,' she reflected ; ' and then the little
smile that was so often on her lips came on
them a moment as she thought : ' To be sure, I
told him to marry somebody  anybody.'

Well, he was dead, and before he was thirty ;
with all his courage and gallantry and wealth,
and the many people who loved him at home
all powerless to save him from the black chasm
of the yawning ice ; and she was not so very
sorry after all ; she honestly wished she could
feel more sorrow. She had never known real
sorrow but once, when her father had been
found dead in his writing-room in the Embassy
at Vienna.

Plato will be more sorry,' she thought,
he always likes his worst enemies so much ! '

Then she rang again for Paul, and told
him to take the telegram to the Prince if he
was still in the house.

Napraxine, in five minutes' time, not venturing
to return in person, wrote to her on the
back of the printed message :

I am grieved indeed. Would you desire
to postpone the dinner of to-night ? '

She wrote back to him :

That would be too infinitely ridiculous ;
though it is certainly a great pity, he was no
relation of ours, only a bonne connaissance ! '

A bonne connaissance ! ' exclaimed Na-praise
when he read the pencilled words.
That was all the requiem given to the drowned
man, whose battered and disfigured body was
then on its way homeward, on the deck of a
vessel which was ploughing a stormy way
through dusky mountainous Atlantic waves !

She sat still a little while, looking through
the remaining telegrams and casting them
aside ; all the rest Avere the mere congratulations
of the season.

I wonder when people will invent anything
new ! ' she thought as she threw the last aside.
To think that the Romans five and twenty

centuries ago were also running about and
visiting and sending cakes and taking flowers,
because what they called a new year had
come ! I suppose the world vill never liberate
itself from the camisole de force of idiotic
customs.'

She wrote a telegram of sympathy to the
sister of Geraldine as she had written a letter
of condolence to the mother of Seliedoff ; then
she had herself wrapped in sealskin from head
to foot and prepared for her drive in the
Bois.

When I am gone, open the windows, Paul,'
she said to the servant, who was so astonished
that he ventured to ask if he heard aright,
knowing that his lady loved warm air as a
palm does.

Open the windows and leave them open,'
she repeated. She looked at all the hot-house
blossoms and thought, with that cruelty which
was latent in her side by side with her higher
qualities, ' They will all be withered in an hour.
Paul wall tell all the valets, they will tell all
their masters '

The fancy diverted her. She liked flowers,
but she liked a little cruelty like this much

better. It would be wholesome for all those
men to know how she valued their New Year's
gifts.

Women nowadays make them so vain,'
she said to herself ' If it were not for me,
they would never get a lesson at all.'

To some the lesson had been severe, severe
as the severity of death ; but that fact scarcely
affected her conscience.

She did not stop her carriage to speak to
any of her acquaintances, for she supposed
that the news of Geraldine's death would by
this time be known in Paris, where he had so
many friends, and knew that everyone would
take pleasure in saying to her  ' Mais comment
done ? Est-ce bien vrai ?  ' It would
be so tiresome !

I cannot help it if they kill themselves I '
she said to herself as her horses sped along the
frosty roads. ' Society will blame me now, but
I imagine they would have blamed me much
more if I had gone away into his north-country
mists with poor Geraldine as he would
have liked me to do ; he was so sensational,
poor fellow, and so romantic under his English
awkwardness. Englishmen are like that ; they

can seldom say anything they mean properly,
but they are very romantic under it all ; they
are always ready to compromise themselves,
despite their decorum, and they have just the
dogged fidelity of their own bulldogs.'

He had been better than most of them certainly.


She felt a certain pain as she went through
the chill sharp air and heavy mists, and remembered
how many times she had seen Geraldine
come riding through the trees, and how boyishly
his face had flushed whenever he had seen
her first ! Poor foolish fellow ! to leave all his
possessions and interests and duties, and to go
out to Ottawa, where he had no earthly business
to be, as if going to Ottawa were likely to
deliver him of her memory ! That was so truly
an Englishman's idea, to change latitude and
longitude and-think you left behind you any inconvenient
passion you might be haunted with
by merely changing your climate and your
food ! ' Poor Ealph ! Poor Ealph ! I think
there was nothing on earth tragic, ridiculous,
or abominable that he would not have done if
I had ordered him to do it  except that he
would never have killed Plato. I do not

think even I could have made him kill Plato.
That is the sort of scruple an Englishman
always has, alone of all men in the world.'

I suppose she knows it, but she does not
care,' said many persons, looking after her as
their wont was, as she flashed past them,
nothing scarcely seen of her except her luminous
eyes looking out from the brown lustre
of the seal skins, whilst she made an almost imperceptible
gesture of her head to the innumerable
salutations that marked her course.

When we get rid of the camisole deforced
she said to herself, ' we shall get rid of
bowing to each other; it is insane, when everyone
meets everyone else morning, noon, and
night, to be obliged to jerk one's head fifty
times every quarter of an hour when one is out
of doors ! '

She scarcely moved hers, indeed, but still it
was a trouble ; it was to avoid the trouble that
she sometimes took those long solitary drives
into the open country, of which the motive
constantly perplexed her world. To any other
woman they would have attributed assignations,
but no one could ever do that to the Princess
Napraxine ; her absolute indifference was too

notorious a fact, and the dullest who knew
aught of her felt that if ever she awoke to
any preference she would never stoop to mask
it. She cared nothing for the opinion of any
living being. She had no lover, only because
she had no love.

Under her nonchalance and her occasional
sentiments of sympathy with revolutionists, she
was of an inexorably proud temperament ; she
would have liked to be an empress,  an
empress such as was seen in earlier times,
whose mere breath spoke the fiat of life and
death. As it was, she could only vex the
souls of men and kill orchids.

When she reached home, after driving
until dusk, she passed through her boudoir to
see if Paul lead obeyed her. He had obeyed
her implicitly : the windows were still wide
open and the bitter biting air was streaming
into the room, driving out before it all the
heat from the calorifere ; all the poor Powers
were withered, as if a scorch from fire had
passed over them, and the beautiful butterfly
petals were mere shrivelled, shapeless leaves.
It had been a pity, she thought, to have
obeyed her so exactly ; yet she knew very

well that if lie had not done so, Paul, despite
his twenty-five years of service to the house
of Napraxine, would have found himself outside
her doors for evermore that night.

'Shut them now,' she said to him, as he
waited for her commands, ' and take away all
those baskets and bouquets,'

Paul knew her too well to dare to remark
what he had thought all the afternoon, that it
had been a sad waste of some fifty thousand
francs' worth of blossoms. He closed the windows
in silence. She passed on towards her
dressing-chambers through the little library
which divided the boudoir from them, the
gayest and most coquettish of little libraries in
appearance, with ivory bookcases ornamented
by painted medallions of birds, a few white
marble busts, and hangings of modern Goblin
tapestry ; but a library by no means destitute
of serious and philosophic works of some Latin
authors, and of transactions of recent scientific
research.

In the library, Paul, hesitating, ventured to
approach her with a bouquet which was not
harmed by the twilight frost.

This was left a few moments ago,' he explained

as he tendered it in some trepidation,
uncertain whether he had done wrong to exclude
it from the general massacre. She took
it indifferently : it was very simple ;  a bouquet
of narcissus with a rim of white violets, nothing
else. The name on the card with it was othman
s. She smiled and took it with her into
her dressing-room. It was the bunch of 'corn-cockles
' for which she had wished.

I did not do wrong,' thought Paul, with
a sigh of relief. Then he smiled too as he recalled
the winter in which the sender had been
many times alone with his mistress in that little
room where the orchids had uow withered in
their gilded baskets, ' It was he if it were ever
anyone,' he thought ; ' but I do not believe it
has ever been anyone  yet.'

His knowledge of the world made him
make the restriction, as he called one of his
subordinates to sweep away all that rubbish,
pointing to the poor murdered flowers, whose
costly corbeilles would be one of his many perquisites.


She, meanwhile, was undressed, clothed ina
loose gown of embroidered china silk, took a
cup of tea, and slept peacefully in the perfumed

warmth. She liked to come out of the frosty
and foggy air, and he still with the pleasant
drowsiness caused by the contrast of the sharp
evening wind and the atmosphere heated to 40
Reaumur. Physicians told her that so sudden
a change was not wise or safe, but she laughed
at them. ' What is pleasant is always wholesome,'
she said, constructing new rules of
hygiene, as she often did new rules of etiquette.
She liked the warmth, the sense of repose, of
languor, of voluptuousness, as a cat loves it,
stretched on velvet, in still hot air. She slept
now with perfect composure, dreamlessly, from
the semi-stupor that driving against cold winds
brings with it afterwards. Then, all at once,
she dreamt of a lake half frozen, of dark
tempestuous skies, of an open grave in the
black water under the jagged drifting ice ; and
she awoke with a little unconscious cry to open
her eyes on the mellow light, the satin hangings,
the Saxe mirrors, the snowy bear-skins of
her dressing-room, the little tray of silver and
china, the bouquet of narcissus and violets
near her.

What a wretched dream ! I, who never
dream,' she said impatiently, as she stretched

her limbs out on the white furs of lier couch.
Then she remembered Geraldine.

Will he haunt me every time I go to
sleep ? ' she thought, with a little shiver. It
seemed to her altogether unreasonable and
undeserved. She had never told him to go on
the Gulf of S. Lawrence in the dangerous
season before the ice was solid.

In an hour's time lie took the bouquet of
narcissus in her hand, and descended to her
drawing-rooms. She wore the pink pearls that
night, the little crown holding up her hair,
raised like that of the portraits of Madame
Tallies ; she never wore her hair twice together
in the same fashion. ' If you always wear
your hair the same way, you have no imagination,
and you are always suspected of a peruke,'
she was wont to say.

Plato Napraxine seeing his despised gift
thus honoured, was almost contented. In the
regime of starvation, on which he lead been
kept so long, the smallest crumbs of condescension
were eagerly seized by him.

She herself was in a gentle and gracious
mood; she was not quite so merciless in speech
as usual, but she was quite as charming. The

VOL. III. M

Due d'Aumale sat on her right haud, the
English Ambassador on her left. Her airy-laughter
rang ever and again like silver bells ;
and Napraxine, even in the midst of the surprised
gratitude with which he saw his pink
pearls honoured by being worn, thought with
a sense of depression and wonder : ' If I were
to die tomorrow, would she care a whit more
than she cares now for Ealph ? '

CHAPTER XXXIX.

The telegram had merely said that Geraldine
had been killed on the ice in the Gulf of S.
Lawrence. There had been no details ; but
later on all the world learned that death had
come to him in the freshness of his manhood
by one of those trite accidents so common in
North American waters in the beginning of
winter, when the ice is still loose and detached,
and is borne to and fro by the sullen waves
which seem unwilling to endure its chains. He
had been standing on an ice floe, off the Prince
Edward Island, with Canadian hunters, seeking
seals, when that portion of it which sustained
them had suddenly broken away before they
were aware of their danger, and, drifting .with
frightful rapidity, had borne them out to sea at
the close of the short, bitter winter's day.
Many on the shore were witnesses of the certain
death to which they were carried, but no help
was possible before the darkness of night came

M 2

down,  the night which froze all human life
left without shelter in it.

Where the floe went none knew ; when the
dawn broke there was no trace of its passage
to be made out amidst the many masses of
ice rocking, meeting, parting, crashing one
upon another as the frost strove to bind beneath
its iron hold the free will and the wild
answer of the sea. Whether those who had
been upon it had been drowned, or frozen to
death, or borne out to mid Atlantic, none
could know ; but on the third day the body
of Geraldine and of two of the Canadian fishermen
had been washed ashore off the New
Brunswick coast : his features had been recognised
by his own crew, and the tidings of his
cruel fate had been sent to his mother and his
sisters. He had been the only son of a high
and honourable House. There was the grief
which sorrowed without hope in the old north
country halls, where a widowed mother wept for
him, and a loyal and loving tenantry followed
his body to its grave by the fair Yore waters.

One Tuesday evening, some two wrecks later,
when Kadine Napraxine returned home from
the opera to change her gown for a ball at

Prince OrloflTs, there lay on lier dressing-room
table, amongst others, a letter of which the
superscription was very familiar to her, and
which moved her with a certain sense which
was as nearly fear as it was possible for her
temperament to know.

She herself had written to Geraldine's
people, but no one of them had answered her
until now that Evelyn Brancepeth did so. She
broke the envelope and read the letter, standing
in the costume of Venetian red embroidered
with silver flowers, in which, at the opera that
night, she had held all the eyes of the house
upon her as she sat, careless, indifferent, half
hidden behind her great red fan, the diamond
butterflies which served in the place of sleeves
trembling upon her shoulders.

I know very well,' wrote Lady Brancepeth,
that before the world you are wholly blameless.
I know that my unhappy brother had
no right to consider himself preferred by you.
I know, were I speaking with you now, you
would say with your chilliest manner that
you had never honoured him with any encouragement
to folly. But you will pardon
me if I say that you are more blamable to me

than 3'ou would be if you had loved him. I
am a plain, stupid, unromantic Englishwoman,
but even I can see that love excuses its own
excesses : Various prime le droit. I could
pardon a great passion if it even committed a
great crime. But you have no passion, you
have even no sentiment. You are sometimes
amused, and you are sometimes  much more
often  bored ; and there the scale of your
emotions rounds itself and ends. There may be
someone who can, or who will, extend for you
that narrow circle, though I very greatly doubt
it ; but it was entirely certain that poor Ealph
had never any chance or any power to do so.
He adored you, quite stupidly and hopelessly,
but he never even knew how to say so in such
a manner as could have touched you. He was
very English, very terre a terre, and if he had
never seen you he would have led a happy
life enough ; a commonplace one, no doubt,
but one useful in this generation, and content
with those simple joys which to a raffinee like
you seem so absurd and so dull. But he did
meet you ; and ever afterwards life meant
nothing to him unless it meant your presence,
and your will. You had admitted him into

the honour of a ceram intimacy, which, in his
blundering English way, he fancied meant all
kinds of eventualities that it did not mean.
No doubt his delusion was of his own creating,
and of course he ought to have been prepared
for his dismissal when he had become troublesome
or tedious ; but he was so unwise that
he put all his heart into that which he should
have understood was a mere jeu de salon ; and
you did not condescend to give him any
warning. Why should you ? you will say.
Why, indeed, since his fate was as entirely
indifferent to you as the bouquets that crowd
your antechambers in Carnaval. It would
have been so very easy for you, when first my
brother ventured to show you what he felt, to
banish him for ever with a decisive word ; he
would have been man enough to understand
and to accept it ; but you did not take that
trouble, and the love of you grew  not perhaps
precisely upon hope  but at least upon the
tacit permission to exist. I scarcely know why
I write all this to you, for you will not read
it ; only I have been your friend, so far as
you allow any woman to call herself so, and
I feel that whenever we meet in the world you

will expect me to be so still, and I cannot.
I must ask you to let us be strangers. No
doubt, actually, you are innocent of my brother's
death, but indirectly  even in a manner
directly  you were the cause of it. You made
his country, his family, his home life, his
duties of all kinds, become no more to him than
if he had never known land or kindred. The
pain with which you filled him made him
wander in an aimless unrest from place to place
in an alien world with which he had no
sympathy, and made him only too willing
to die, that he might so throw off the fever
of your memory. My dear Racine, you area
woman of perfect honour, of high repute,
of sensitive and unbending pride, and on the
ermine of your delicate dignity there is no
stahi as yet. But for me, there is blood upon
your hand. I can never take it in my own
again. Let us be strangers.'

The letter was signed, and nothing more
was added to it.

Nadine Napraxine read the lines through,
word by word, and when she had done so,
folded it up and put it aside, without irritation,
but not altogether without regret. The frank,

sincere, and at times rough words of Geraldine's
sister had been Welcome to her by their contrast
with the false sweetness of the world's
phrases, and she knew that she would lose her
friendship with reluctance, and miss her surly
honesty, with its uncompromising truths. But
the letter seemed to her exaggerated, not in the
best taste, even if, under the circumstances
which inspired it, natural enough. Geraldine
had perished by such an accident as every
year costs scores of fishers' lives whenever the
ice floes meet and sever in the half-frozen seas
of the north. Why would they see her hand
in it so clearly ?

'It is just as they always see the finger of
God where a horse stumbles at a post and
rails, or when a pointsman is sleepy and does
not hang out the red light,' she said to herself,
with some impatient contempt. ' I am sorry,
quite sorry myself, that he is dead, but I certainly
never told him to get upon a block of
ice in midwinter on the St. Lawrence. And
it was quite as much Plato's doing as mine
that ever he took the habit of coming about
our house at all. Besides, if he had not been
very stupid, as even his sister says, he would

have understood a demi-mot ; there is nothing
on earth so tiresome as people who want things
explained.'

Still, there were passages in the letter
which touched her conscience, and reached
that truthfulness in self-judgment which easily
awoke in her.

I suppose I am unkind  sometimes,' she
thought, with a certain contrition. ' When they
irritate me I really do not care what becomes
of them. As long as they know how to please
me I am always amiable. It is not my fault
that their knowledge comes to an end too
soon. It is their own poverty of style, of
thought, of invention. If I were writing a
dictionary, and had to define Man, I should say
he was a limited animal, exceedingly Limited.
There is infinitely more variety about dogs.'

The very recollection of the excessive
monotony of the human species made her
yawn. She wondered if that monotony were
the fault of civilisation ; probably not. In a
savage state, no doubt, instincts had been all
alike, just as manners were all alike now.
People were all dull, and because she found
them so they considered her heartless. Poor

Geraldine had been dull ; dull in comprehension,
in intention, in discernment ; and just
because she had found him so his sister wrote
to her as if she were a murderess.

Poor woman ! ' she reflected. ' She is
always so disposed to see everything so terribly
en noir. That is so English, too. They always
have the fog in their eyes. I am not in the
least like Lady Macbeth. I neither murder men,
nor have my sleep murdered by them. It is
natural that she should feel keenly the loss of
her only brother, but it is absurd that she
should lay the blame upon my shoulders, when
lie knows that if he had not wished to shoot
seals  which is a barbarous pastime  he would
most probably be alive now. As if a man
could be wasting with despair, and yet care
about seals ! To be sure, it is very English.
If an Englishman be hopelessly in love nth
any one, he generally goes a long way off and
tries to kill a tiger or a moose. I do not seethe
connection of ideas between the sigh of
passion and the steel of a gun barrel, but there
must be some link of affinity for them, because
they all do it. I prefer men like Othmar, who
kill other men.'

Althoiigli she was all alone as these thoughts
drifted through her mind while the letter of
Lady Brancepeth lay amongst the litter of
notes, cards, and invitations on her table, a
momentary warmth came on her face as the
name of Othmar recurred to her, and a certain
bitterness of contempt came into her recollection
as she remembered his marriage. If he
had had patience, if he only had had patience,
perhaps  perhaps  perhaps

She would not have gone away with him,
because in her world they did not do those
things, and she would have always been too
keenly afraid of an after-time of regret and
weariness, but she might have accepted the gift
of his life, and given him something of her own.

In his haste and wrath he had set up a
barrier between them, but how frail it was!
Only the timid, wistful youth of a girl ! The
imperial scorn of the Cleopatra of the earth
rose in her before her meek, childlike rival.

What a coward he had been to shelter
himself behind the frail rampart of a young
girl's affection ; affection which he did not
appreciate, did not reciprocate, did not value !

A woman with a tithe part of the discerns



ment and the experience which she possessed
could cast the horoscope of Yseulte without
any recourse to the stars for knowledge of the
future. All that fresh and tender love would
count for nothing, would avail nothing, would
awaken no response. She would bear his
children, and live in his houses, and be the
object of all his careful outward observance,
and that would be all. He would grow unspeakably
weary of seeing her, of hearing her,
of remembering her tie to him, and he would
conceal his weariness ill or well, and be everyday
more and more galled by the necessity for
concealment.

When Kadine Napraxine, after the ball,
went to her own rooms that night, she had herself
undressed by her women and wrapped ina
loose bed-room gown, made of her favourite
white satin, and lined with eider-down. She dismissed
her women, and lay before the warmth
of her dressing-room fire in that dreamy state
between waking and sleeping which is the very
perfection of repose. The softly-lighted chambers
opened one out of another in a vista of
rich subdued colour, ending in the bath room,
where a lamp hung above a beautiful reproduction

of the Venus of Naples. The rooms
were so many temples to her own perfections,
she was the Grace, the Muse, and the Venus
herself of this perfect sanctuary, which no footfall
of man had ever dared invade. As she reclined
before the fire that night and glanced through
her half-closed lids down the succession of
chambers, which in the clear but delicate light
had the glow of jewels, she thought how dull
and empty they would have seemed to most
women of her years without a lover's step
coming silently and swiftly through the fragrant
silence.

'Decidedly,' she mused, 'the voix de la
nature says nothing at all to me. Is it because
I have no heart, as they say ? I do not think
the heart has much to do with that kind of thing.
I suppose I am cold, as they all cry out against
me. Of all of them, there is no one I should
care to see coming through those shadows; he
would disturb me. The passions are coarse
things. It is disgusting that there should not
be two ways of love, one for Dona Sol and one for
Manor Descant  for one's self and one's maid.
But there are not. On se rend, ou on ne se
rend pas ; but when the submission is made

Nature makes no difference between Cleopatra
and a camp-follower.'

She sighed a little, inconsistently. She
disdained alike the solicitations of the senses
and the pleasures of the affections, and yet she
was conscious of a certain coldness and emptiness
in her life ; she was not prepared to confess
that what she needed was love, but a vague
impression of solitude came upon her. She
remembered the lips of Othmar pressed upon
her wrist, how they had burned, how they had
trembled I

Was it possible that the keenest joys of life
lay, after all, in those follies which her temperament
and her philosophies had classed with
contempt amongst the excesses of wantons and
the exaggerations of poets ?

The purest maiden in her cloister could
not have been colder than was Nadine
Napraxine ; to her the indulgence of the senses
only meant an intolerable humiliation, an ignominious
outrage ; maternity itself had only been
to her a long and hated and revolting burden, a
sign of unendurable degradation, which offended
all her pride and all her delicacy. The satyr
had always seemed to her a much juster emblem

of such instincts than any winged amo-ring.


D'un etre inconnu le contact passager '

could not rouse any desire or any sentiment in
her.

And yet there were occasionally moments,
fleeting ones it is true, when in the sublimated
egoism of her indolent, ironical, artificial life,
she had a vague impression of some possible
passion which yet might arouse her to acknowledge
its force ; a tempestuous fancy swept over
her, as a storm wind may sweep over a parterre
of tulips and azaleas, for stronger emotions,
hotter enmities, dearer attachments, keener
strife, than those which the polished inanities
of her own sphere could yield to her. The
emotion lasted with her very little time, but
whilst it was there the eyes of Othmar always
looked in memory into hers.

She who at will forgot everything had
never forgotten the sound of his voice as he
lead pleaded with her. It had ever since
haunted her with a vague imperfect sense of
something missed, something lost, something in
her own life incomplete and unattainable. She

had not a doubt but that in time they would
have wearied each other  fatigue Alas the inevitable
shadow of all love  yet she had a
pathetic regretfulness as for life incomplete,
undeveloped, unshared, whenever she remembered
that hers and his might have been passed
together.

It had been only a sentiment ; it never had
risen to the form of desire, or ached with the
pain of passion ; but it had been a sentiment,
vague, almost poetic ; a wild flower of feeling
which seemed of strange growth in the hothouse
culture of her intelligence, and the rarified
chill air of her many philosophies.

She had sometimes said to herself, ' I could
have loved him.' In self-communion the conditional
mood is never parted by more than a
hair's breadth from the present. There were
moments in the ironical, indolent, artificial
life which usurped her time and thoughts in
which she almost regretted that decision which
had banished Othmar from her side and given
him to another. The regret was as nearly a
movement of the heart as she was capable of;
but it was much besides that ; it was the inquisitiveness
of a desoeuvree incredulous that

VOL. III. N

life could hold any great emotions for her ; it
was the impulse of a contemptuous courage to
break through social laws which it despised ; it
was the desire of a woman lonely amidst her
triumphs to find that key to the enjoyment of
existence which, in some way or another, had
slipped through her hands, and had never been
discovered in its hiding-place.

If I had been quite sure that he would
have contented me ! ' she thought more than
once.

If she had been quite sure, she would have
surrendered everything, paused at nothing ; it
was neither daring nor generosity which were
wanting in her ; but she had not been sure,
since she was never sure of herself !

CHAPTER XL.

A FORTNIGHT afterwards, the Prince and Princess
Napraxine issued cards for a dinner, to
meet the Emperor of all the Russia. The invitation
came to the Hotel Othmar at noon, as
Yseulte'sat at breakfast; she coloured a little
as she saw it, and passed it across the table to
her husband with a dozen other invitations.
He glanced at them, put them aside, and spoke
of something else. She hesitated a few minutes,
then said timidly :

Am I to accept it ? '

Accept which of them ? '

The Princess Napraxine's.'

He looked up with some displeasure at her
tone ; he answered quickly :

Assuredly. Why not ? You cannot leave
it open as you do for a ball or a reception.'

She did not venture to say why. She
coloured more and more, and remained silent.

You have no plea for refusing invitations

n2

since you are not ill and are seen everywhere,'
he said coldly. ' Besides, I thought you were
acquiring the tastes of the world.'

She did not speak. She could not say to
him : ' I cannot bear to be the guest of Madame
Napraxine, because they tell me you have
loved her as you never have loved me.'

Othmar glanced at her, and imagined what
was in her thoughts. ' Perhaps that meddlesome
Melville has talked to her,' he thought,
with the ready suspicion of a man of the
world of an ecclesiastic. He said, a little impatiently
:

My dear child, do not conceive animosities
against people, or you will spoil your own
sweetness of temper and make yourself disliked
by your own sex. And do not fret yourself
with imaginary antagonisms, which are altogether
unworthy of you. When we are living
in the world, we must abide by its rules of
courtesy. I am wholly at a loss to imagine
why you shoukl be unwilling to accept this
invitation ; but as you are seen everywhere in
this your first Paris winter, you cannot without
rudeness refuse it. This is the only good that
I have ever seen come out of society, that it

compels us to subordinate our own inclinations
to certain definite laws of good breeding. Pray
do not grow fretful ; it was your beautiful
serenity that I first admired, and loved.'

He hesitated a moment before the last
word.

I will remember,' she said gently ; but
without much effort she would have burst into
tears.

He saw the effort, and it irritated him. He
knew that he ought to have said to her,
Follow your inclination and refuse, if you
like.' But her wish to refuse it had annoyed
him, and hurried him into a command to
accept it from which he could not recede.
And the charm of Nadine Napraxine was upon
him, and had broken down all his wiser resolutions.


He looked across the table at Yseulte.
She was as fair as the dawn, certainly; but she
had no power over him ; she did not beguile
his time, or stimulate his wit, or stir his intellect
; she did not, even after twelve months
of possession, move his senses. She was a
lovely child, most obedient, tender, and spiritual
; but  she was not the mistress of ibis

thoughts. She never had been, she never
would be so.

How stupid men are ! ' thought JSTadine
Napraxine that night. ' Lie is worth very-much
more than I am ; she is both handsome
and lovely ; she is as harmless and guileless asa
dove, and she adores him, a great deal too
much ; yet, perhaps one ought to say therefore,
he cares nothing on earth for her ; he will
love me as long as his life lasts ; he would do
so even if I had tho tremendous penalty-weight,
as the racing-men say, of being his wife.
I really do not know why it is that the noblest
sort of women do not excite love. I wonder
why it is ? I asked my father once ; he said,
Because the devil dowers his own daughters."
But that explains nothing ; we all know
there is no devil ; there are women  and
women. That is all.'

As those thoughts drifted dreamily through
her mind she vas conversing all the while about
classic music with a potentate who was no
mean dilettante in melody, and she was looking
down her table at the young face of Yseulte
with a vague sort of pity which she could
scarcely have explained,  such pity as in the

gladiatorial arena some trained and irresistible
reiiarius might have felt at seeing some fair
brave youth enter with the shield that was to
be so useless and the sword that was so soon
to fail; a pity which might be quite sincere,
though it might never go so far as mercy. The
faint jealousy which she had felt when, walking
amongst the moonlit fields of Zaraizoff, she had
thought of Amyot, had faded altogether the
moment that she had met Othmar again. She
knew, as women always know such things, that
her power over him was unaltered and unalterable
by any w411 of his own.

When I choose,' she thought, ' he will
leave her and she will break her heart. She
will know nothing about such reprisal as a
Parisienne should take ; she will never be a
Parisienne ; she will always be a patrician of
the vieille souche, which is quite another thing ;
she will always be an innocent woman, with a
soul like a lily. She is afraid of me, and she
dislikes me ; she tries to hide it all she can, but
she does not know how. Plato admires her ;
that is what he ought to have married ; I daresay
she would never have found him ugly or
clumsy ; he would have been her husband 

that would have been enough to make him
sacred ; there are women like that. She adores
Othmar, but she knows nothing about him ; he
is a little like Hamlet, and she is as much
puzzled as Ophelia. Of course she would have
worshipped any man who had prevented her
being buried in a convent ; she is as full of life
as a lime-tree in flower. She is longing to
look at me always, but she does not dare.
She is quite beautiful, quite, but all that is no
use to her. He knows it, but he does not care
for it. He will keep her in his house and have
children by her, but he will care no more for
her than for Mercie's Andromache, that stands
in his vestibule. Whether you are Venus ora
Hottentot matters so little if a man do not
love you ; if you do not know how to make
him love you. They always say a modest
woman never does know how ; but I do
not think I am especially immodest, yet I

know '

The disjointed thoughts drifted through her
mind without interfering with the current of
her conversation. Metaphysicians may dispute
the existence of two simultaneous trains of
thought, but women know their possibility.

Her enigmatical victorious smile came on
her lips as that consciousness soothed and
stimulated her.

She had too much honour to make any-deliberate
project to seduce him from his
allegiance. Her coquetries might be less merciful
than many more guilty, but they had
never ceased to be innocent in the world's conception
of the term. The coldness with which
Othmar had reproached her was still one of
the most definite of her qualities. It was the
amulet of her magic, the secret of her power.
She was as yet a perfectly passionless woman,
and as such ruled the passions of men.

So, Othmar, like every one else, you
find that marriage leads to the world, not to
the hidden doves' nest of the poets ?' said
Nadine Xapraxine after dinner, when her
rooms had filled an hour before midnight, and
her imperial guest had gone and left her free.

1 am afraid it is impossible to avoid following
the mould of the society we live in,'
replied Othmar. ' The hope of being original
is one of the many illusions which we leave
behind us with time.'

I confess that I am a little disappointed in

you,' she continued, with the smile of malice
which he knew so welL ' I should have
thought you would have had courage to live
your own life, to avoid beaten paths, and to
keep your lovely arum lily from the Breton
woods out of our forcing-house. Allow me to
say it in all simplicity and sincerity, she is most
lovely. All Paris envies you.'

Othmar's face flushed as he bowed in acknowledgment.
He did not reply. Though
the habits of the world had taught him many
such lessons, he found it hard to appear unmoved
beside the woman he loved, and discuss
vith her that other whom he had wedded.
She understood quite well the unwillingness
and the embarrassment which he felt, and they
made her but the more tenacious in pursuit of
the subject she had selected.

Heavens !' she thought, ' what children of
Nature men always remain ! They are unmanned
if they meet a woman who recalls a love scene
ten years old, whilst a woman voidd not move
an eyelash if she encountered a score of lovers
she had forsaken  no !  not if she had hired
bravoes to kill them, and they knew it !'

Aloud she said, in her sweetest voice : ' I

remember you were always so haunted with
ideals. You must certainly have realised the
most spiritual and the purest of them now.
When I heard people say that you were going
to shut yourself up in your country house in
the Orleannais, it seemed to me perfectly natural,
perfectly fitting; you never cared for society.
Why should you contaminate your young wife
with it? I thought you were going to show
us that an idyllic life was still possible. Weare
all sad sceptics, but we should have believed
you. Why did you lose so good an
opportunity ? To live in Paris, to receive and
be received ; any one can do that ; toute la
gomme does it ; Amyot ought to have given
you something better.'

To live in the country needs a clear conscience,'
replied Othmar impatiently, not very
well knowing what he said.

I hope you have murdered nobody,' said
his tormentor. ' Eeally, without compliment, I
should have thought you were one of the few
men who could have lived in the country without
ennui. You love books, you like your own
company, and you are not enamoured of that
of others. Besides, it is really a pity to bring

that young angel,  that clear-eyed saint, 
into our feverish world. She will only lose
that lovely complexion, and perhaps her health
as well, learn a great deal of folly, and feel
thirty years old before she is twenty. Why do
you do it ? It is heartless of you. Amyot is
her world.'

He did not attempt to reply.

She had spoken with sincerity, though her
motive in speaking was not so sincere as her
sentiment. Nadine Napraxine, who herself
often regretted the premature womanhood
which the manner of her childhood had
brought so early to her, who often sighed restlessly,
if disdainfully, for that innocence of
mind, that freshness of heart which she had
never enjoyed  the blue sunflower of Louise
of Prussia, the green fields of Eugene de
Guerin,  felt at that moment the impulse of
compassion which she expressed. It seemed to
her, momentarily at least, cruel to have brought
any creature so youthful and so easily contented
by simple things, as Yseulte was, into
the furnace of the world, where all simple
tastes and fancies perish like a handful of
meadow daisies cast into a brazier,

And to have brought her near me ! ' she
thought, with the singular union of disdain
and of compassion with which she had looked
for the first time at the face of the child in
the salons of Milloo. Whilst he remained silent
she looked at him a little curiously, a little
contemptuously ; with no pity whatever for
him.

One day, when I was ten years old, I was
in my father's study,' she continued with apparent
irrelevance. ' I was very tiresome ; he
was dictating to three secretaries alternately,
and I tormented him with questions. He was
so good to me that he could never bear to turn
me out ; but he threw me an illustrated copy
of '' Gil Bias." I became as quiet as a mouse.
I was entranced, delighted ; I never spoke for
two hours  but I do not know that I was the
better for it afterwards. " Gil Bias " is not
amongst the moral tales of children. I suppose
he did not think of that ; he only wanted
to get rid of me.'

Othmar coloured with anger and self-consciousness.
He knew very well that she meant
to imply that he sent his wife into the world
as Count PlatoJQT had given his daughter ' Gil

Bias.' Conscience would not allow him a disclaimer,
even if a sense of ridicule in her
reminiscences, apparently so ill-timed, had
permitted him to make one.

I do not know that I was any the better,'
continued Nadine ISTapraxine in the same even,
dreamy tones. ' But I do not know that I was
any the worse. Everything depends on temperament.
Oh yes, much more than on circumstance,
let them say what they will.
Temperament is like climate, a thing unalterable.
All the forces of men mil not make the
Nile desert cold, or the Baltic shores tropical.
It is so delightful to think that something
escapes the carpentering of man ! Do you
know, when an earthquake asserts itself or a
mountain kills people, I can never help saying
to myself with pleasure  " Ah-ha ! there is
something left, then, that they cannot explain
away, or regulate, or measure with their
pocket-rule, and what a comfort that is ! " '

She laughed a little, leaning back in her
chair, slowly moving a fan which Watteau had
painted for Larghilliere.

Madame JSTapraxine,' answered Othmar
bitterly, ' has always occupied in life the

position which Juvenal thought so enviable ;
she has always watched the tempest and the
shipwreck from her own safe couch behind her
casement.'

Yes, I have,' she murmured, with a little
sigh of self-satisfaction. ' It is so easy not to
go out in bad weather.'

May one not be overtaken by it P '
Not if one have a good aneroid.'
Let us leave metaphor,' she continued,
after a pause ; ' I know you believe in something
like the Greek Erinnys ; but you may
believe me that there is nothing of the kind.
We all make our own fates, or our temperaments
make them for us. Destiny does not
stalk about amongst us unseen, but irresistible,
as I know you think it does. I believe there
is nothing which befalls us, from a catarrh to a
catastrophe, which, if we choose to be honest
with ourselves, we may not trace to our own
imprudence.'

You cannot judge ; you have never '

Never had a cold ? Oh, indeed I have.
If you were to listen to de Thiviers, I am a
person on whom the most southerly wind
should never be allowed to blow, for fear of its

blowing through me and annihilating me ; as
for catastrophe '

She paused a moment ; across even her
profound indifference there passed the memories
of some dead men.

Catastrophes,' added Othmar ; ' catastrophes
have not been lacking in the pageant
of your life, madame ; but I believe they have
only been the shipwrecks seen through the
windows of rose-glass.'

She was silent. Then she said slowly and
in a low voice :

You mistake if you think that I did not
feel pain for the death of Seliedoff.'

Othmar bent his head. She saw that he
did not believe her. The sense of being misjudged
banished her momentarily chastened
mood.

But I was at the same time very much
annoyed,' she continued. 'Tragedy always
annoys me. It sets the asses of the world
braying. No one ever pleases me by irrational
or exaggerated actions. I am sorry, of course,
but I cannot forgive the uproar which all
conduct of  of that sort causes me. It always
irritates me like the conflagration in the cantata

of the ' Dernier Nuit de Sardanapale/ where
the grosse caisse always roars and rolls so loud
that all the music is lost, and one does not feel
to care in the very least who may die or who
may live.'

Then she rose and gave him a little smile.

I assure you the grosse caisse is a mistake
in a cantata ! ' she said as she passed him and
left him, the subtle, voluptuous odour of the
gardenias of her bouquet floating by him like
the dewy odours of a midsummer eve.

He thought bitterly that he could comprehend
how such a man as Joubert loved the scent
of tube-roses till his death, because a woman once
had taken a cluster of them from his hand twenty
years before in a garden alley of the Tuileries.

It irritated him extremely that she should
so exactly have suspected and penetrated the
motive which had led him to desire that the
life of the world should distract and occupy the
young companion of his life. It was a motive
of which he was acutely ashamed, which he
could not endure to confess to himself, much
less could bear to feel was subject to the
observation of her unsparing raillery. Of all
wounds which she could have reopened, none

YOL. III.

would have ached more keenly iu him than his
humiliating sense of how she, at the least, must
know that the young gui vho bore his name
had no place in his heart ; that she, at the
least, must remember, as he remembered, those
interviews with her at La JacquemeriUe which
had been so closely followed by his marriage.
He misht deceive all the world into the belief
that he loved his wife  he could not so deceive
her. His veins thrilled, his blood burned, ashe
recalled those two days in which his passion
had been spoken to her in words whose utterance
he himself could never forget. What had
they sounded to her ear? Only, no doubt,
like the grosse caisse which, symbolising death,
agony, destruction, woe untellable, yet only
seemed to her grotesquely forcible, jarring
unpleasantly on the harmonious serenity of the
symphony !

He forced himself not to follow her with
his eyes as she moved away with that exquisite
harmony of step and carriage which were due
to the perfect proportions of her form, and he
turned and sought out Yseulte herself.

She was in the music-room, listening
absently to an andante of Beethoven's, surrounded

by a little court of men no longer
young, who cared nothing for Beethoven, but
much for her youth and her unconscious charm
of manner.

Are you willing to come away ? ' he
murmured to her when the andante was
ended.

She rose with eagerness ; to be in the Hotel
Napraxine was oppressive and painful to her.

He took her aivay unobserved, and drove
homeward beside her in silence. He looked at
her profile, fair and clear against the light
thrown from without on the glass of the
carriage window, and at the whiteness of her
slender throat, with its collar of pearls, and
hated himself because he could only think,
with a shudder, ' All my life must I sit beside
her, a living lie to her ! '

Yseulte,' he murmured suddenly ; then
paused : he felt a momentary impulse to tell
her the truth, to say to lier, ' I do not love
you  God forgive me !  I love another woman ;
help me, my dear, and pity me ; do not reproach
me ; I will do the best that I can by
your life ; love me always yourself if you can ;
I need it sorely. We may never be happy ;

o2

but at least there will be no falsehood or
secrecy between us. That will be much.'

The impulse was momentarily strong upon
him ; he took her hand in his and said once
more with hesitation : ' Yseiilte '

Then he paused ; long habit of reserve,
a sensitive fear of wounding and of being
wounded, the tenderness of pity for a blameless
creature who adored him and who, if he
spoke his thoughts aloud, would never Ue in
peace upon his heart again, all checked the
words which had listen to his lips.

He wished, kissed her hand, and murmured
some vague caressing phrase. The moment
passed ; the impulse of confidence and candour
lost strength and courage. ' It would be cruel,'
he thought. ' Since I have made my burden,
let me at least have courage to bear it alone.'

It seemed to him unmanly and ungenerous
to lay any share or shadow of it on this young
life, which owed all its peace and light to
ignorance of the truth. She was deluded, but
she was happy : he let her be. He shrank
from arousing her ; he shrank from hurting
her ; she was like a child, doomed to starve on
her awaking, but whilst she slept, dreaming, with
a smile, that she was fed by bread from heaven.

CHAPTEE XLI.

The Paris season seemed to all her world to
have gained new brilliancy with the advent of
the Princess Xapraxine. The opening of that
most desired and exclusive of all houses was
an event of supreme import in the hierarchy
of society, and she herself had returned from
her self-inflicted exile in the North more disposed
than usual for its frivolities and graces,
more wilhucr than usual to deicfn to see and
be seen, more general in her courtesies, more
amiable and benignant in her condescensions.
When she chose, she could fascinate women
scarcely less completely than she did men, and
she did so choose this year of her reappearance
from Eussia. Lie was less capricious,
less inexorably exclusive, less merciless in her
ironies ; those who knew her nature best concluded
that something had pleased her; no one
knew what. She, who had no secrets from herself
as sillier people have, confessed frankly to
herself that what pleased her was what her

fine penetration had discovered at a glance,
the first moment that she had entered the Hotel
d'Othmar.

All the virtues are there, no doubt,' she
had said to herself, ' and all the qualities
and all the charms, but Love  oil va-tail se
richer ? '

Love, she saw, was absent.

She had a curious sentiment towards the
young mistress of that gorgeous house. She
admired her ; she thought her type pure and
lofty, her manners most high bred, if a little
too constrained, her face lovely ; she had a sort
of pitying regard for her ; the glance of the
girl's eyes moved her to compassion as those of
an antelope will do the hunter, who nevertheless
]plunges his knife into its velvet throat ;
but she was not more dissuaded by her pity
than the hunter is by this to desist from her
intentions.

The waning; of the shsht affection which he
had ever been able to give his young wife, the
growing constraint of her manner to him and
before him, the visible chillness which had
fallen on their life together since that December
night when she herself had arrived in Paris

were all plain enough to lier unerring perceptions,
however slight might be the outward
signs of that separation which was only not
estrangement, because on the one side there
was a devotion so timid, grateful, and constant
that it could not be estranged.

Her world observed that she treated Yseulte
with much more kindliness than it was common
with her to show to women so young. Whenever
she spoke of her, or to her, she always
used some phrase which was gracious or flattering,
with that most subtle and delicate flattery
of which she had the secret as well as she had
those of the most cruel ironies and insinuations ;
the extreme charm of her flatteries, as the
intense sting of her cruelties, always lay in the
fact that they contained a visible truth ; they
were not the mere offspring of invention.

Yseulte did not show to equal advantage
when she received them ; she was always
embarrassed, even almost rude, so far as rudeness
was possible to one nurtured in all the
grand traditions of French patrician courtesy.
In her own heart the child suffered excruciating
mortification whenever the one woman whom
she knew her husband had loved  did love 

met her with sweet and praiseful words.
She had all the exaggerated honesty of exceeding
youth ; she could not believe that
sincerity permitted the sincere to smile on
what they hated, and almost  almost  she
hated this exquisite woman who was so gracious
to her. It became an absolute dread upon her
lest she should meet the one person who had
this power to make her feel insignificant,
ignorant, and awkward : a power never expressed,
never even hinted at, yet lying beneath
all those pretty phrases which the Princess
Napraxine addressed to her or spoke before
her. Her own innocent pleasure in these new
pleasures of the world was marred by the
constant apprehension of meeting her one
enemy, who did not even give her the frank
offence of an enemy, but always approached
lier with the smiling grace of a friendship the
insincerity of which her own sincere instincts
detected. The routine of their world brought
them in almost perpetual contact, and Yseulte
felt her presence before she saw her, and was
conscious of a nervousness which she could
not conquer, though she strove to conceal it.
There was no one to whom she dared to speak

of what she felt, and she was indeed ashamed
of it. Youth dies a hundred deaths in silence
in these unavowed antagonisms and apprehensions.
If she had ventured to confess what
she felt to Othmar, she would have ceased to
be haunted by these vague terrors ; but there
was a look in his face whenever the name of
Nadine Napraxine was spoken before inn,
which told her she herself must never speak
it in blame or in fear. A chill and desolate
consciousness had by degrees stolen upon her
that they were right who said her husband
loved this other woman as he never had and
never would love herself. She said nothing to
anyone, not even in the confessional ; but a
coldness like frost seemed to have come over
her glad, warm, and grateful life just opened
like the primroses in spring.

The day after lie had left that simple bouquet
of narcissus and white violets, Othmar
had called at the Hotel Xapraxine. It was
not her day, but she was at home and received
him ; it was the twilight hour so favourable
to dreams, to confidence, to familiarity ; when
he had left the house he was conscious that
he had done an unwise thing, perhaps even an

unmanly thing ; but lie had been for the moment
almost happy, which he had not been
for a year.

They had not been even alone; but the
sound of her voice, the languid glance of her
eyes in the dim half-light, the music of her
slight, low Faugh, had all thrilled his veins with
a thousand memories of passion and of hope ;
he had said to himself, ' I will never go back,'
but he had gone back, and he knew that life
would only count to him in futile by the
moments when he should return. In the evening
which followed on his visit he was, quite
unwittingly, colder and more preoccupied than
Yseulte had ever seen him ; he Alas even for
once almost irritable. She looked at him wistfully.
Friederich Othmar, who was present
there, thought to himself in futile fury : ' That
sorceress has bewitched him once more. In
another twelvemonths' time, if he be not her
accepted lover he will have shot himself This
poor fair child would cut her heart out of her
breast to serve him ; but she will grow less and
less to him, less and less, every day. It is no
fault of hers. He never cared for her, and
she has no pliiltre of which she can make him

drink. Innocent women do not brew them.
Poor sweet fools ! They can only pray ! '

The old man had never cared for these
women before ; but now he did care. His
heart which had been so cold all his life melted
towards Yseulte.

Why could not Othmar be content with
his coin du feu ? When the Baron came into
her apartment and saw the tall figure of the
girl, with her fair head carried with a little
droop like a flower's after rain, he was everyday
more and more angry to find her husband
so seldom there. Yseulte seemed to him to
have in herself all those beauties and qualities
which should be sweetest in the eyes of a man.
But she was left alone, very constantly alone.

To one who had loved her she would have
been full of interest, of surprises for the imagination,
and of nascent character for influence
to work upon ; lout to Othmar she was only a
child, tame, quiet, without power to arrest or
to excite him.

In the presence of Racine Napraxine every
fibre of his being was thrilled and awake,
every nerve of his mind and body was alternately
soothed and strung ; her discursive and

ironical intelligence seemed to light up the
universe of thought, and every syllable lie
spoke, every slight gesture, smile, and suggestive
glance, were fuller of meaning and more
appealing at once to the intellect and the
senses than hours of effort and provocation
from other women. When he passed from her
presence into that of Yseulte it was as though
he passed from the marvellous intricacies of
the passion music of Tristan und Isolde to the
simple peace and prayer of a Gregorian chaunt
sung by a child chorister. The latter was not
without beauty of its own ; beauty harmless
and holy ; but which had no power to move
him.

Little by little his caresses grew fewer,
his attentions grew rarer to his wife ; he was
always full of courteous observance and unremitting
kindness to her as before ; but the
times were rare in which he sought her alone
the evenings few in which he entered her
apartments.

His whole remembrance, desires, and adoration
were with Nadine Napraxine. He imagined
that he entirely concealed his weakness
from the world and from Yseulte ; but as the

weeks passed on and the opportunities of society
brought him continually into the presence of
the one woman whom he loved, the magical
influence of her dominion began completely to
absorb and to subdue him afresh. He still
abstained from any intimacy at lier house ; lie
still most rarely visited her or directly sought
her, but all the indirect occasions to be in her
presence which the routine of their world
afforded he accepted and looked forward to
with an eagerness which he imagined was
wholly unsuspected by others. When she was
entertained at his own hotel he was studiously
distant in his courtesies, and though he did not
betray it, he was embarrassed by the honest and
cordial regard which her husband showed to him.
Fried erich Othmar would very much have
liked to speak his mind on the subject to his
nephew, but he felt that he had no possible
pretext to do so, for Othmar was perfect iu his
manner to his young wife and constant in his
kindness and solicitude for her. The elder
man felt that he could not with decency split
straws about imaginary wrongs when he himself
had been always so incredulous of the
sorrows of the affections. So long as Othmar

refused her nothing, inflicted no sHglit on her
publicly, and never said a syllable to her that
was unkind or uncourteous, it was impossible for
anyone to call him to account for mere fanciful
offences which, however real might be the
suffering they caused, had no substantial ground
or root.

'He would laugh at me,' thought the
Baron, and the whole philosophy of his life
made any possible ridicule on grounds of
sentiment intolerable to him even in idea.
He was, moreover, conscious that Othmar
would do more than laugh, and united to
his impatience of his nephew's errors and
caprices was a reverence for him as the
chief of the House, which was still stronger
than any other feeling. So might a loyal
prince of blood royal see in his nephew a man
most blameable, full of faults and of inconsistency,
yet see in him also his sovereign, whose
very errors or failures he was bound, for sake
of their common race and of his sworn supremacy,
to defend.

Othmar can do no wrong in your sight,'
said Nadine Napraxine once, with the smile
that the Baron hated.

Nor child the Eoi Soleil in the sight of his
family,' he responded, with a tone that was the
reverse of amiable, ' yet there were lovely ladies
on the terraces of Marley and Versailles who
must have tried their patience and their faith
sometimes.'

Can faith and patience be said to exist
unless they are tried ? ' said his tormentor.
And I should think that the Treaty of
Utrecht tried both much more than his preferences,
which could not matter in the very
least to them.'

Friederich Othmar was silent, twisting his
white moustaches irritably. He would have
liked to say many things to her, but he dared
not ; he did not know enough ; and Othmar,
implacably incensed, would have quarrelled
with him then and for ever had he ventured
to interfere.

He who had intelligence enough to appreciate
the spirituality and unworldliness of
Yseulte's nature, who had been first touched
by her unlikeness to all the young girls of his
world, by her serious and elevated character
and her simple unostentatious piety, felt a sting
of shame at his own motives when he realised

how much he sought to make her like all other
women, how much he trusted to frivolous
temptations to console and to absorb her.

In doubt do nothing,' he knew well was
one of the golden legends of the world's wisdom.
If she had sought advice or sympathy,
her doubts and her fears mirht have been
soothed in a measure. Her confessors would have
given her the same counsel as that worthiest of
men, Friederich Othmar. They would have entreated
her not to fret her life out over mere
sorrows of the emotions and the imagination ;
they would have hinted that she was exceptionally
happy if she bad no more to bear than
an inconstancy of the mind and of the fancy ;
they would have bade her trust to her youth,
to her own strength of affection, and to her
place in his house and in his life, to give her
ultimate supremacy in the thoughts and the
heart of her husband. But even in the sanctity
of the confessional she chose rather to
commit the sin, for sin it was in her sight, of
hiding all her inmost feelings and keeping
silence on all her most rebellious impulses
rather than speak of Othmar with any words
which might imply suspicion, blame, or reproach

to him. Her convent life had given
her such little knowledge of human nature, her
sensitive reserve of character left lier so entirely
without counsellors or friends, that she was altogether
alone in the bewilderment of this world
which had at first seemed to her at once a
pageant and a paradise, but which, now that
her soul was haunted by one poignant dread,
only appeared to her filled with cruel problems,
incomprehensible temptations, strange confusions
and humiliating motives. To her, only one
friend was possible, her husband ; to him alone
would her timidity and her honour have permitted
her to confide all her pathetic fears, all
her innocent secrets ; but Othmar never sought
her confidence. Treating her with the gentleness
of a man to a child, with the respect of a
gentleman for what he wholly reverences, and
is always willing to protect and please, he yet
remained as distant from her in true confidence
and sympathy as any stranger ushered into her
drawing-rooms, whose face she had never seen
before.

Naturally unselfish, Othmar had yet unconsciously
dropped into the habit of one
intense selfishness ; he wrapped himself in

VOL. III. p

his own thoughts as in a domino, and drew
each day more and more closely about him that
reserve which spared him all the trouble of
reply, all the ennui of interrogation. The continual
demands which his great position in the
world made upon his time gave him continued
excuse for being alike occupied and absorbed.
Often the Avhole day passed without her receiving
more from him than a few brief gentle
phrases of greeting or adieu.

But he had provided her with every possible
means of enjoyment and of self-indulgence, and
it did not occur to him that amidst all her
luxury the heart of the child remained empty
and hungered.

He treats her as he would treat a mistress
to whom he had grown utterly indifferent,'
thought Melville, often observing him with
anger. ' He surrounds her with every conceivable
kind of luxury and distraction, and he leaves
her alone amidst it. Does he think that a girl
of her years wants nothing more than toilettes,
horses, jewels, and bibelots ? Does he suppose
that at seventeen the heart is dead, and that the
sentiments and the desires have said their last
word? Does he believe that she will want

nothing more of love than a chill embrace now
and then, j)ro forma ? He leaves her at once
so free and so starved, that were she any other
woman in the world she would use lier liberty
in such wise that he would live to bitterly
repent his neglect. But she is of the old time,
the old school ; she will keep silent and faithful
; she will bear his children With the meekness
and the resignation of the lambing sheep
in spring-time ; and she will rear them with
courage, wisdom, and devotion. But she will
not be happy, though probably the world will
always envy her ; and she will be less to him
less, less, less,  with every year which passes.
In the end they will be total strangers, and she
will accept that strange sort of widowhood 
the saddest of all  as patiently as she accepted
maternity and its pains. The cloister is out of
date, perhaps, as they say, but the fact remains
that there are natures for which, whether
in or out of the cloister, life means crucifixion.'


Melville strove to do what he could to restore
peace to her ; but it is difficult to administer
any efficacious medicine when no disease is admitted
by the sufferer to exist. The extreme

p2

sensitiveness and the power of silent suffering
in Yseulte baffled her well wishers, whilst it
assisted those who did not wish her so well.
When he, with his tact at suggestion, contrived
to give her some hint that human love must
always be accepted as a thing imperfect, that
in every human life there must come disillusions,
trials, and regrets, and that none of these
need bring wretchedness with them if they be
met with faith and patience, Yseulte listened to
him with her usual courteous reverence, but
felt bitterly that beneath his carefully chosen
words, which were dropped with such elaborate
assumption of hazard, as upon some general
and impersonal subject, there were hidden both
counsel to her and apprehension for her. She
resented both with that hauteur which the
blood of the de Valogne had given her ; and
he desisted from his efforts, afraid to do hurt
where he wished to do good.

After all,' he thought, ' one's fears for
her may be wholly chimerical. Othmar is a
man of honour, and Madame Napraxine is as
chaste as snow,  according to report. It is
true, her chastity has been as perilous and as
cruel as the immoralities of others. But I

think, even if to Othmar she should be not so
cold, and be even more fatal than usual, his
young wife may have charm enough to keep
him faithful, or at least to win him back to
fidelity.'

But though he tried thus to reassure himself,
he did not succeed. He had learned much
of the wisdom of society in his forty years of
priesthood ; be had been the favourite ecclesiastic
of the great world, and he had seen
much of its delicate and capricious women, of
its unstable and unhealthy passions, of its irksome
and disregarded ties ; and he saw in the
position of Yseulte many possibilities of error
and unhappiness, little likelihood of a future
of peace. Never within his memory, with its innumerable
records of human destinies, had he
ever seen simplicity, innocence, and devotion
victorious over finesse, experience, and egotism ;
never within his memory had either the confessional
or the drawing-rooms afforded him
any precedent by which he could hope that
the love which gave its all unreservedly and
adoring with both hands, would ever be
conqueror over the seduction which provoked
every desire aud granted none, sacrificed

nothing and expected all. Melville had always
seen the egoist supreme in the conflict of life ;
his knowledge did not disturb his faith, it only
made him the more convinced that there must
be some future world in which all these wrongs
would be set right ; but it saddened him despite
himself, and, despite his hope of ultimate compensation,
he could not help whenever he could
aiding the weak against the strong.

If everything is done by the will of God,
why do you try and alter it ? ' said Friederich
Othmar to him once, with just sarcasm.

Melville was conscious that he was illogical,
but he could not resist his own English love of
fair play ; it did not seem to him that as the
world was made innocence and unselfishness
ever obtained any chance of justice.

It must be granted,' he thought mournfully
once, also unable to resist his own clear-lightness
and its conclusions, ' it must be
granted that both innocence and unselfishness
are too often inconceivably, irremediably, stupid,
and throw their best cards on the table and
follow will-o'-the-wisps, and break their limbs
over every obstacle which a little skill and coolness
would enable them to negotiate.'

The keen eyes of Aurore che Valines saw
what Othmar did not see ; that since the am\al
of the Princess Napraxine her young cousin
had no longer the single-hearted and buoyant
happiness of the early months of her marriage,
that her face was often melancholy, her gaze
wistful, her manner constrained.

But her reflections were precisely contrary
to those of Melville.

She is fortunate beyond everything,' said
the Duchesse to her intimate friends. ' He
gives her all she can wish for, as if he were
Haroun Alraschid, and he leaves her entirely
to herself, because he is not in the least in love
with her. Can anyone imagine a more enviable
position ?  to be seventeen years old and have
all the Othmar millions at your back, and to
enjoy such an absolute liberty that your
husband never asks you even where you spend
your days P Only she is such a baby still, so
very full of all her convent fancies, so scrupulous,
and proud, and old-fashioned, that I
suppose she will never enjoy herself as she
might do. She was ruined by those womeii
at Faiel, and by the austerities and prejudices
of the old Marquise. If she only knew it.

her position might be the happiest in the
world.'

Will it not be as I said ? ' asked the Due,
her husband, triumphantly many a time. She
always answered him irritably :

If a woman prefer to be miserable she
always can be ; men will always furnish her
with the materials. But in this case you maybe
quite sure it is merely a girl's romance and
disappointment with marriage, which she expected,
as they all do, to be a primrose path
whilst it is only a common highway.'

'The highway can be varied by tapes'
murmured the Due de Vannes.

He himself watched with unkind satisfaction
the little cloud which had come in the
serene heaven of Yseulte's fate. It might betoken
but an April shower, or it might bring
in its wake a tempest. When he had seen
Nadine Napraxine arrive in Paris he had said
to himself, ' Adieu les marguerites ! ' The
daisies were simple treasures of the spring ;
they would have no charm beside the hothouse
flower. As his little daughter had said, he had
bet heavily on the chances of Yseulte's marriage,
and he watched the unfolding of the

leaves of fate with the impatience of the
gambler added to the unacknowledged malice
of a personal pique. In the frequent opportunities
which both society and relationship
afforded him he dropped the gall of many a
vague insinuation, worded with tact and finesse,
into the troubled peace of her thoughts. He
had too much skill and too much good taste to
permit himself to speak either Othmar's or
Nadine Napraxine's name directly, but he had
not been so long schooled in the cruelties of
the world without having learned the art of
suggestion in its most merciless and its most
subtle shapes. He never said so in any clear
form of words, yet he contrived to convey to
her his own conviction and the conviction of
society that she counted for nothing in her
husband's existence. All his delicately-hinted
compassion, all his vaguely-worded indignation,
the mere light jests with which he strove to
amuse her, all contained that drop of acid
which burned its way into the pure gold of her
affections, and remained with her long after he
had left her presence.

She always summoned fortitude enough to
repress any sign of the harm he did to her ;

but the effect of it was for that reason the
more baneful. Sorrows and doubts, which pass
away when a woman can weep for them at her
mother's knees, or in her sister's arms, grow
strong and cruel in solitary meditation and the
nurture of thoughts unconfessed.

One night at a great fete the Due de
Vannes approached her and said to her with
a smile :

How preoccupied you are, my cousin ! I
never should have thought that anyone so
young would look so grave at a ball. Eeally,
you make one fear that after all you were
wrongly turned from your vocation, and would
have been happiest in the cloister, much as the
world would have lost.'

The world would have lost nothing,' answered
the girl, a little bitterly. ' The world
and I have no affinity.'

That is only an idea. In a few years you will

habituate yourself to ' he paused and added

with meaning, ' to many things which seem to
you harsh and cold. Penelope nowadays, if
she spin at all to console herself for abandonment,
only weaves the web oifiirtages '

Yseulte coloured at the insinuation contained

in the phrase. Her heart was too full
for her to trust herself to answer. Did all
these people know, as she knew, that her husband
had never loved her ?

'You are troop taille a , I' antique,' said de
Vannes with a little impertinence. ' Do you
think you are ever thanked for all this exclusive
devotion which does not permit you to smile
at a ball.? Do not be angered, Yseulte. I
should be glad if I could persuade you that
it would be much wiser to smile often  and
smile on others. Men are ungrateful, my
cousin. The spaniel love is not what moves
them most.'

I do not know why you should say this tome,'
she murmured with embarrassment and
offence. ' You presume too far on our relationship
'

Pardon me ! ' said the Due very humbly.
My indignation is apt to outrun my prudence.
I do not like to see  any one  passively accept
neglect. Neglect should be avenged. It is the
only way in which it can be transformed into
allegiance.'

Yseulte made a courageous effort to conceal
her knowledge of the drift of his words.

I cannot tell what you allude to,' she said
coldly. 'Nor do I see wliy you should feel
any anger for which you are not asked.'

In the last century,' continued de Vannes,
as though he had not heard her, ' there was a
woman called Lescombat ; she was very beautiful
and had many lovers ; she incited them to
many crimes. One of them, Longest, was
condemned to be broken on the wheel for one
of these crimes. He could have cleared himself
if he had revealed her name ; but he never
did. He died on the wheel silent. She went
to the Place de Grave and smiled to see his
tortures. ' II ne fallait pas moins que cela pour
faire rougir Longest ! ' she cried so loud that
he could hear her : he had always been very
fair and pale. But he died mute, nevertheless.
It is women like the Lescombat, my cousin,
who are loved like that. Pauline de Beaumont,
the very flower and perfection of womanhood,
was only allowed as a reward for her devotion
to follow her lover at a distance like a dog and
die in Eome. It is always so.'

A chill passed over the girl as he spoke.
She said wearily :

Madame de Beaumont was as nature and

religion made her ; she could not have rivalled
your Lescombat if she had wished.'

Then she rose and went away from him.

When she returned home to her own
rooms, where she was now too often left as
solitary as though she had been in " her nun's
cell at Fairer, she fell upon her knees before
her crucifix and sobbed bitterly : she had seen
that night how wistfully, and with what unconsciously
revealed longing and regret, the eyes
of Othmar had followed every movement of
her rival.

To her ignorance, Nadine Napraxine was a
woman as cruel, as evil, as terrible as the
murderess Lescombat of whom the Due de
Vannes had spoken. All the innumerable intricacies
of line, and the delicate half tints of
which such a character as hers was composed,
made a study far beyond the girl's power of
analysis, even had any such power been left to
her in the confusion and the fever of her
thoughts. She only saw in her a sorceress,
whose merciless will and irresistible seduction
drew her husband from her as the Greek ships
of old that passed to the world of the east were
drawn out of their safe straight road by the

loadstone rocks of the Gulf of Arabia. A sense
of entire helplessness and of intending despair
came upon her in those glad sunlit flower-filled
Parisian days when all the pomp and
pleasure which the great world could give
were continually around her. If ever timidly
and ashamed she ventured to reveal anything
which she endured in the sanctity of the confessional,
her confessor, an austere and fanatical
recluse, always met her with the reply that,
having turned as she had done from the paths
of religion, she only met with her just retribution
if the golden apples of terrestrial life,
for which she had abandoned spiritual things,
changed to ashes between her lips. She received
no compassion from him and little
consolation ; she followed meekly the course of
self-mortification he traced out for her; and,
day by day, her cheek grew paler, her eye
heavier, her step more slow and joyless.

She suffered as only a nature can suffer
which is too sensitive to seek comfort in revealing
itself, and too unused to the ways of
the world to be able to find either distraction
or compensation. ]o tortures would have
wrung from her the confession of what she felt ;

lie was ashamed of the passionate and piteous
jealousy of which she was conscious ; she
thought it an offence against lier husband and
her God. But she could not resist its inroads
into her peace ; it grew and grew, and its
insidious fires spread farther and farther in her
simple soul, as a cancer spreads in healthy flesh.
She felt no sense of wrong ; even in her
own thoughts she uttered no reproach against
him. In her own sight she was so utterly his
debtor that she had no title to complain,
even though he should wring her very heart
with desertion. But a sickening despondency
stole upon her little by little ; each week
brought with it some clearer sense of counting
for nothing in his life, some sharper consciousness
that she had no real place in his affections.
Her perceptions, suddenly and cruelly aroused
by the knowledge that he loved another woman
than herself, became preternaturally keen in
instinct and second-sight. She could tell in an
instant, by the expression of his features, when
he had seen her rival or when he had failed to
meet her. Her mind, lately so ignorant of all
the meanings of the world's babble, grew fatally
alive to all its insinuations, its hints, its allusions,

whenever these in aught concerned ]!a-
dine Napraxine. Her ear brought to her the
faintest and most distant whispers in which
the dreaded name was spoken. She became
aware of the meaning of 0th mar's glance,
animated or absent, according as Nadine Na-praise
was within his sight or not. She grew
sensitive to all the different inflections of his
voice, in which expectation, disappointment,
pleasure, mortification, or impatience spoke.
She was as susceptible to every change in him
as the mercury to the frost and to the sun. Her
whole existence was consumed in her study of
him.

The self-restraint and the silence to which
her early years had been trained, made her perfectly
capable of repressing every outward sign
of what she felt. Othmar saw no alteration in
her; he saw that she went eagerly into the
world, and imagined that she, like all women,
had learned to enjoy its frivolities. She was
always calm, docile, cheerful ; she had at all
times a graceful answer to those with whom she
spoke, an admirable manner in whatever scene
she was placed in. He never divined how, beneath
the serious smile on her mouth which

served to hide the aching, wistful doubts and
fears of her still childlike heart, how, beneath
the pretty stateliness and gravity which he had
first admired at Milloo, and which never altered
in her, there throbbed the poignant pain of a
timid and impassioned section  wasted.

If he had loved her, he might have seen
something of it, little as men are able at anytime
to read the soul of a woman ; but he was
only kind to her, gentle to her, faithful  as
yet  to her. He never loved her, and so all
that wistful, lonely suffering went on and grew
greater and greater unguessed by him. When
he sat by her side in the opera-house, all he
saw was Nadine Xapraxine on the opposite
side of the theatre ; when he entered a ballroom,
or a music-room, or a drawing-room
before a dinner, all he looked for were the
dark, languid, luminous eyes of the woman he
adored, and when he met their glance, and
saw across a crowded salon the irony of her
slight and subtle smile, he only lived for her.

VOL. in, Q

CHAPTER XLII.

Tins duel, if duel it could be calleJ,since all
the science and almost all the advantages were
on one side, passed constantly in the presence
and beneath the eyes of Othmar. But he was
blind to it with the shortsightedness of a man ;
he was, even, more than once irritated by what
he thought was an excess of kindness, an unusual
interest, shown by the woman whom he
loved to Ms wife. He hated to see them near
each other. He scarcely disguised his restlessness
when he noted any approach to intimacy
between them. The remembrance of those
two mornings at La Fac quern erille were for ever
with him. He could not pardon Nadine Na-praise
that she appeared so entirely to ignore
their memory. True, he thought bitterly, it
was she who had betrayed him, and it is
always the betrayed who remembers, the betrayer
who forgets. Had he said so much to
her she would have answered : ' My friend, I

did not betray you ; I only told you I would
reflect. I did reflect ; if the result of my reflections
was adverse to you, it was your misfortune
perhaps, but it was also your fault.'

Once or twice Melville endeavoured to
induce Katie Napraxine to speak of the young
girl of whose destinies he considered her the
arbitress, but he never succeeded.

She is very beautiful ; ' she always answered
with that talent in selecting what she could
say truthfully, which was not the least of her
wisdom. She added a few more words of
eulogy, neither critical nor exaggerated ; she
did not permit him to have any glimpse of the
consummate scorn joined to the sincere compassion
with which she regarded the wife of
Othmar, every one of whose emotions she read
as though she read them in a book every time
that the voice of Yseulte chanced in greeting
her or the girl's tell-tale colour rose, or faded,
whenever she herself entered a room or looked
at her across a theatre.

No one of all her lovers had ever been so
completely mesmerised by her power as was'
this girl who held the name, the home, the
honour of Othmar, whilst she herself held all

u2

his memory, all his desires, all his mind and
heart and life.

It was the fascination of the phidias for
the dove. It gratified her sense of dominion,
and aroused all her more cruel instincts. The
reluctant fascination which she exercised over
Yseulte ; the visible effort with which the girl
strove to escape from it and failed; the
magnetism with which her gaze was riveted
and her ear strained to follow every movement,
to catch every utterance of her foe ; that helplessness,
that unwilling, yet powerless, subjugation,
excited all which was coldest, most contemptuous,
most inexorable, in the soul of the
woman in whose veins ran the blood of the
assassins of Paul. That clairvoyance which is
the gift of all rare intelligences, made her as
conscious of all the bewildered thoughts which
thronged the mind of Yseulte as though she
saw them in the magic crystal of a sorcerer.
She knew how, when she looked at the girl
carelessly, smilingly, over the feathers of her
fan or the flowers of her bouquet, across the
sea of light of the opera-house, the whole soul
of her innocent rival shrank and trembled
within her, even whilst the natural courage,

and resolution, and pride, of the de Alone
blood forced her to endeavour to resist, and
enabled her to succeed in concealing, the fear
and trouble which she felt.

She is brave,' said Nadine Napraxine to
herself with respect ; but all the scorn which
was in her made her add, without pity, ' but
what a child !  how foolish !  how transparent ! '

In that continual flux and reflux of society
which incessantly brings together those of the
same world and allows them to see each other
perpetually, even though they remain strangers,
the occasions were frequent, almost daily, in
which she could study this poor aching heart,
which was laid as bare to her as though Yseulte
had had a mirror in her breast, and, for no
victory and no caprice of her life, had she ever
been so interested de se faire belle as now,
when she was conscious that her imperial charm,
her nameless irresistible powers of seduction,
had thrown their magic net over the life which
had most cause of all on earth to fear her own.

If he had known that she had suffered thus,
his compassion and his sense of honour would
have been aroused and have taken alarm ; but
he was blind to it. as men dominated by an

exclusive passion are blind to all outside it.
His principles and this good taste would have
made him his own most inexorable censor had
he been in any act of his life faithless, in the
gross meanings of the word, to the young life
which he had united to his own. But he did
not consider that a love which he pressed like
a knife into the depths of his heart, and of
which he believed he gave no outward sign
whatever, did any wrong to Yseulte. She was
still so young ; she had all she desired ; she
would have children about her in other years ;
she was of that docile, feminine, unimpassioned
nature which is easily content with the placid
affections of the natural ties. He did not
think that he betrayed her because, all unknown
to her, he cherished in the depths of
his own soul a bitter, cruel, hopeless, and yet
most exquisite and most ending passion. He
had given her all which the world can give
to any human creative ; he did not realise
that his lips were chill when he kissed her,
his eyes indifferent when they glanced at her,
his speech to her too often absent and conventional,
his caresses too often forced, mechanical,
and without any throb of warmth.

He knew well that if be were wise, even if
he were faithful in intent to his wife, he would
leave Paris whilst Nadine Xapraxine was in it.
His many possessions could have given him a
hundred facile excuses for absence, and Yseulte
would have gone wilfully wherever he had
chosen to take her. But he did not obey his
conscience ; he was swayed by his pride, which
would not allow him to let the world say that
he retreated before his sorceress, and he was
held by that power which a great love
exercises over the judgment and the volition.
The mere glance of her eyes had fascination
enough to destroy all his resolutions, and draw
him into absolute oblivion of everything save
herself. His passion for her was one of those
which absence and denial intensify. He would
make the arrangements of his whole day subordinate
to one slight chance of meeting her
for a moment in a crowd, of seeing her pass at
a distance beneath the boughs of an avenue.
He had received a mortal affront, a merciless
insult, and yet he forgave them both ; he was
with her once more, he had no sense except of
that one ecstasy. He was weak as a reed in
her hands ; he could have flunf] himself at her

feet and kissed there. He knew that manliness,
dignity, honour, duty, self-respect, all
ought to have forbidden him to cross her
threshold, but he was indifferent to them ;
they were mere names, without power, almost
without meaning, for him. They had no more
control over him than threads of silk upon the
neck of a horse which has broken loose. She
was before him, the one woman who was
beautiful, beloved, and desired by him ; and
he realised that it had been of no use to try
and cure a delirious fever with a simple draught
of sweet herbs, as Melville had once said.

His own wife was nothing to him ; the
wife of Napraxine was all. He despised and
hated himself for his inconstancy where his
fealty bound him, for his fidelity where he had
only received light mockery and cruel provocation.
But he could not change his nature,
and the education which life had given him
had contained no lesson in the art of self-denial.
The world had always been at his
feet ; his desires had always been gratified and
his wishes forestalled ; he had never been used
to subjugate his own inclinations ; and this,
the first evil which had ever tempted him,

began to assail him with increasing force with
every clay which brought him within sight of
the one woman whom he adored. She knew
his weakness as she knew that of every human
being who ever approached her, and she had
no compassion for it. A man who had done
her the insult of presuming to seek elsewhere
consolation for her own indifference, had no
mercy from her in his failure ; he had offended
her in the only vulnerable portion of her
character, her supreme love of exclusive dominion.
She was not vain with any common
vanity, but the instincts towards absolute mastery
were strong in her ; whoever thwarted
those instincts, always repented his temerity in
dust and ashes. Each step which Othmar
made towards resumption of her yoke upon his
passions, seemed to her only his due chastisement
; every pang which she detected in him,
every look of remorse, every imprudence of
utterance or regard, pleased her as witness of
his just degradation. In the many occasions
which society gave her, she planted daggers in
his breast with every cruelly chosen word she
spoke, which was invariably veiled in easy
irony or simulated friendliness, until his whole

existence was consumed between the loninc
for, and the dread of, her approach. She
had towards him a mingling of compassion,
raillery, and kindness, which was of all means
the one most certain to wound, excite, and enchain
him. Whenever he was within hearing,
she was in her wittiest moods, her most brilliant
aspects ; all the various charms of her
acute intelligence and of her high culture
seemed increased tenfold after the simple childlike
speech and the convent-bred mind of his
young wife. He felt like a man who, long
chained to a narrow, colourless, peaceful shore,
is suddenly set free amidst the flowering labyrinths
and the voluptuous odours of a tropical
savannah.

Never had Nadine Napraxine been so willing
to please, so facile to be pleased, as in the
course of this Paris winter, when he was constantly
within sight of her coquetteries, within
earshot of her speeches. He watched her
across a salon as a captive sunk in the depths
of a prison may gaze at a summer sky beneath
which he may never again stand a freeman.
The sense of his vicinity and of his
suffering, supplied that stimulant to life which

her languid emotions needed ; she viewed the
drama of his regret and revolt with an interest
in it half bitter, half sweet. A man who could
have wedded another whilst he loved herself,
deserved, she told herself, to suffer ; yet there
were moments when, beneath her triumphs and
her mockeries, there was in her own heart a
thrill of answering pain ; Avhat might have
been, glided also before her memory with pale
reproach.

One night, entirely by chance, he and she
were alone for a few minutes, that solitude in a
crowd for which great entertainments give so
much opportunity.

It was at a ball given by Prince OrlofF;
those hazards of society which it always
amused her to subdue and turn to the service
of her own intentions, had brought him to her
side ; some great palms made a little grove
around them ; the sound of the valse from Faust
came dreamily from the distant ball-room.

Do you know, Othmar, that I am disappointed
in you . ' she murmiu-ed, in her
softest, cruellest, most malicious tones. ' I
imagined that you would be so very good to
your wife ; you were always sighing to be an

homme cTinterieui\ you were always coveting
solitude, sentiment, and sympathy. I expected
to see you give us the example of a perfectly
ideal union ; but I am afraid that, after all,
you are not much better than other men.'

Madame '

Oh, you are angry, of course ! Everyone
is angry who is in the wrong. It is perfectly
true, you are only a husband like ten thousand
others. You were always a little like Chateaubriand
: " Tourists, ambassadeur, ministre, ou
amant, a peine arrive, il s'ennuie." '

It might be true of M. de Chateaubriand,'
said Othmar, with displeasure, ' it is not so of
me. I am most constant,  where I have never
been welcome,'

The confession escaped him despite himself,
and he regretted it passionately as soon as
it was uttered.

That is why 3'ou are faithful,' said Nadine
Napraxine, smiling. ' If you had been welcome,
how poor and pale the whole country of
your explorations would have seemed to you !
There is only one way not to have shut on you
those dreadful gates of disillusion ; it is to be
wise, and never to pass through them.'

Your philosophies are, no doubt, madame,
as correct as your observations,' said Othmar,
with impatience.

r pass my life in observing,' she replied.
It is the only pursuit in society which has
really any interest in it. But tell me, do you
not a little, just a little, neglect your wife ? It
is a pity, she is so young ; in time, if you be
not there, someone else will be.'

Never ! ' he interrupted, with some heat.
I have many faults, no doubt, and I abandon
them to your observation ; but Yseulte has nota
single defect that I have seen ; she is loyalty,
innocence, and honour incarnated.'

They are three charming qualities,' replied
Nadine Xapraxine, ' but they do not
appear to have any result except that of
making you dangerously confident that you
may leave them wholly to themselves.'

Othmar coloured ; he was sensible of the
correctness of the accusation, and it irritated
him excessively to hear the woman he loved
rebuke him for his conduct to his wife.

If I be too indifferent where all my allegiance
should be given,' he said abruptly, ' the
Princess Napraxine should be the last on

earth to accuse me of it. She knows the
cause.'

The cause, I imagine, is in your temperament,'
she replied, ignoring his meaning, ' as
it was in Chateaubriand's.'

Can we not leave Chateaubriand alone ? '

And speak only of yourself ? It is a
curious thing, but a man is never contented
unless he is speaking solely of himself. It is
the only entity in which he takes any real
interest.'

Perhaps it is the only one with which he
is really conversant.'

Oh, you must be conversant with your
wife's. Her mind must be as clear as crystal.
Do you know, Othmar, I think you ought to
be more grateful than you are ; to have so
very pure a creature as that to be the mother
of your children, is a privilege to you and
to your race.'

She spoke gravely for the moment, abandoning
the ironical mockery of her habitual tone.

He rose abruptly.

I cannot be grateful,' he said very low,
with a passionate vibration in his voice. ' I was
a fool, and I committed a great error. Withall

my life burnt up by one love, I imagined
that I could slake the flames of it by contact
with youth and innocence, as if the woodland
brook could cool and arrest the boiling lava ! '

Nadine Napraxine heard, with her languid
lids drooped over her eyes, and the shadow of
a smile upon her mouth.

If it were so, jou should lee too proud to
confess it,' she said, after a pause. ' To be
sure it is not a very confidential confession,
for everyone sees that your  experiment  has
not been quite so successful as you hoped, as
Baron Fritz, at least, hoped. Well, we have
talked long enough in this solitude ; you may
take me to the ball room.'

When he went home, no sleep came to
him that night ; his conscience and his pride
rebuked him for the admission he had made,
and before his eyes there passed ceaselessly the
vision of Racine Xapraxine, pale, ethereal,
magically seductive, like those figures of Herculaneum
which float noiselessly in the air, their
bodies delicate as the gossamer-winged body of
the Deilephila.

And she had said to him, 'All the world
sees that your experiment has not succeeded ! '

The words added the one drop of mortification
and of bitterness which was alone
wanting in the cup which he had of his own
weakness and of his own will filled for himself,
and was forced by the justice of fate to
drink.

She herself drove homeward alone through
the chilly shadows of the dawn, which could
not touch her, wrapped in her eider-down
lined satins, and reclining amongst her yielding
cushions. A beggar woman sitting on a doorstep
with a sick child sleepless in her arms,
saw the carriage pass, and thought, ' What
must it feel like to roll on like that, clad like
that, warm and happy like that, with the price
of a million loaves of bread in one single stone
at your throat ? '

Racine Xapraxine would have told her
that food and warmth and jewels were no
especial pleasure, when you had been always
used to them ; perhaps the absence of them
might be painful  so much she would have
granted.

She drove homeward, and went up to her
white dressing-room with a vague sense of impatience
and of regret stirring within her.

How he loved her, how he loved her,
although he had been madman enough to give
his life to another in an insane attempt to
attain oblivion !

She did not lie down, but when her
women had undressed her and wrapped her
in her loose warm wrappers, she sat long
looking dreamily into the hire burning on the
open hearth, for the night of April was
chilly within doors though without nightingales
began to sing amidst the lilac buds.
He would still, if she chose, go far away from
all duty, all honour, all the ways of the world
and the respect of men. Almost it tempted
her, that which lie had rejected two years
before. There was another life to be hurt
now ! Friederich Othmar had perchance read
her temperament aright vrhen he had thought
that the power to make misery would have
greater force to attract her than the power to
confer happiness.

I suppose I must be what the good
dullards call wicked,' she thought with a smile
at herself, and a certain vao;ue emotion of
disgust at her own impulse.

Was she wicked ? Was anybody so ? Was

VOL. III. R

there ever anything in human nature beyond
impatience, ennui, inquisitiveness, natural love
of dominion, and wholly instinctive egotism?
Did not these, collectively or singly, suffice to
account for all human actions ?

CHAPTEE XLIII.

A FEW days later Racine Napraxioe was surprised
and annoyed at receiving in the forenoon
a request from lier husband that she
would be so good as to receive him for a few
moments.

Beg the Prince to excuse me,' she said to
her women. ' I am tired and must go out in
an hour.'

Never once in the years of their marriage
had Napraxine ever ventured to insist after
such a message, or to revolt against her decisions.
She was astonished and exceedingly
irritated when they brought her a pencilled
note in which were written some blurred
words : ' Pray pardon me, but I have urgent
reasons to desire to see you without delay ;
I must entreat of you to admit me, if only fora
moment.'

Quelle corvee ! ' she murmured as she

R 2

reluctantly gave the order to let him enter.
The companionship of her husband, at all times
wearisome to her, had become in the last few
weeks more than usually intolerable.

I must beg of you not to send me these
autocratic demands,' she said, with much impatience,
as he entered. ' You want my women
sent away P Why should they be sent away ?
What can you possibly have to say that may
not be heard from the housetops ? '

Looking at him with irritation and undisguised
dislike, she saw an expression upon
his face which was new there ; he motioned
the maids away with authority ; he was disturbed
and excited ; he had nevertheless a
certain dignity and anger in his attitude.

Do you know, madame,' he said abruptly
when they were alone, being scarcely conscious
of what he did say, ' that here in Paris there
are persons who venture to hint that  that 
that Othmar has been for many years at your
feet? That his marriage was only one of
pique? That even now he neglects his wife
because of you ? Had you any idea of this ?
Can you tell me what possible foundation there
is for it? Oh, do not think for a moment

that I pay any heed to it, only I would like to
know why  when '

Entangled in his words and in his ideas, he
stammered, breathed heavily, came to a full
pause ; he dared not accuse her, did not even
accuse her in his own thoughts ; but the sudden
knowledge that her name was spoken in union
with Othmar's had so galled and stunned him
that he had lost his usual patience, his habitual
timidity, before her.

His wife heard him with a contraction of
her eyebrows, which was the only sign she
ever gave of anger ; her eyes were cold and
haughty ; her whole countenance was as unrevealed
as the marble features of her bust by
Dupre which stood on a table near. Eor the sole
time in her life she was not prepared with a
reply ; the various memories which had united
herself and Othmar had been always so carefully
veiled from the knowledge of others that
she had never imagined any outer light would
be ever shed upon them. The world had certainly
seen at one time that Othmar loved her,
and had been ready to sacrifice his life at her
word, but that had been long ago ; she had not
supposed that the emotions which her clairvoyance

had discovered, the mesmerism which
she still exercised, had had any spectators.
But if for the moment surprised, she was never
for a moment at fault. She looked steadily at
her husband, with the delicate lines of her eyebrows
drawn together in a frown, which lent a
strange severity to her features.

My dear Prince,' she said slowly and
coldly ; ' jou have known my character for
nearly eight years. I cannot tell whether the
opportunities you have had of understanding it
have been employed to the utmost, or whether
your powers of comprehension have been not
altogether equal to the task. But one thing at
least I should have supposed you would have
learned in all that time  I should have thought
you would have understood that I do not
permit impertinent interrogation, or even interrogation
at all. I never ask you questions ;
I expect never to be asked them.'

Xapraxine stood before her like a chidden
child ; his long habit of deference to her will
and fear of her superiority were still in the
ascendant with him, but struggling against
them were his own manliness, and a vague,
new-born suspicion, strengthened by a certain

evasiveness, which even his sluggish intelligence
perceived, in her reply.

After all,' he said, somewhat piteously and
irrelevantly ; ' after all, Nadege, I am your
husband.'

Unhappily ! '

The single word so chill and so contemptuous
was cast at him like a blow with crystals
of ice. He shrank a little.

No doubt you think so, though I have
done what I could,' he said, humbly repressing
the pang he felt. ' But unhappily or not, the
fact is a fact. You permit me very few conjugal
rights, but there is one which you will
not surely deny me  the right to know what
truth or untruth there is in these stories of
Othmar.'

You speak like a juge instruction I ' she
said, with all her customary disdain. ' You
ought to let no one tell you those or any other
stories. It is yourself whom they make ridiculous,
not me.'

No one shall make me so long,' he muttered.
' If you will not answer me, I will goto
him.'

She raised her head haughtily and looked

him full in the face with that gaze wherewith
she was accustomed to cow and to coerce menas
the shepherd's voice intimidates and rules
the sheep.

That would be certainly original,' she said,
with a slight suggestion of laughter. ' A husband
going to an imaginary lover to beg him
to reveal how high he stood in the favour of
his wife !  it would be original if it would not
be dignified. I wonder what Othmar would
answer you! You will admit that it would
be a great temptation to his vanity  and his
invention ! '

Napraxine paced a few steps to and fro the
room in an agitation which every one of her
languid and contemptuous words increased ;
a kind of hopelessness always came over him in
the presence of his wife ; it was so impossible
to move, to touch, to hold, to comprehend her.
The calm raillery, the chill imperious anger,
which were all he ever could excite in her,
left his heart so shrunken and wounded, his
pride so humiliated and baffled.

He paused before her suddenly.

'Nadege,' he said, with a tremor in his
voice : ' You know that I have always liked

Othmar. You asked me once why. It is not
much of a narrative. This is it. One day, years
and years ago, when he was quite a youth, we
chanced to travel together in Eussia. There
was a movement of agrarian revolt at that time.
As we passed a village in the province of Moscow
we came upon a horrible conflagration ; there
were incendiary fires ; great sheepfolds and
cattle-pens were burning. I  Heaven forgive
my selfishness I  Avould have driven on ; I only
wanted to get to Moscow itself in time for a
masked ball at the Kremlin ; but Othmar would
not ; he sprang out of the carriage and rallied
a few men around him, and plunged right into
the flames to save the sheep and the cattle, or
such of them as he could ; of course when he did
that, I had no choice but to do the same. We
worked all night ; we saved thousands of the
beasts, but we lost the ball at the Kremlin. I
do not say it was anything very great to do.
I dare say numbers of other young men would
have done as much ; but the remembrance of
it has always made me like Othmar. If you
had seen him scorched, and singed, and black
with smoke, his hair burnt and his hands
blistered, dragging the rams and the ewes,

driving the bullocks and heifers, the flames
curling up over the grass which was as dry as
chips, for it was in the month of August ;  I
have always liked him ever since; he is not
the mere ennuye that they think him.'

He paused abruptly ; his wife's eyes had a
conflicting expression in them ; there was
emotion and there was mockery.

Oh fool !  oh poor big innocent fool ! '
she thought, 'you to praise Otho Othmar tome
! '

Yet something in what he had said softened
her cynical intolerance of his questions and
made her more merciful to him. The only
qualities which were ever admirable to her in
her husband were his courage and his sympathy
with courage. They were not uncommon
attributes, but they were those which always
had affinity to hers. And the half-grotesque,
half-pathetic ignorance which was visible ashe
spoke of Othmar moved lier to a certain
indulgence in all her scorn.

He is so stupid, but he is so honest,' she
thought, as she had thought so often before,
with a feeling of compassion which might in any
other woman have been a pang of conscience.

However, the passing sentiment could not altogether
exclude her more dominant instincts of
raillery, her not easily appeased offence at interrogation
and interference.

I do not really see, my dear Napraxine,'
she said languidly, ' what possible connection
singed sheep and burning heifers have to do
with the rumours which~you say  society has
been so good as to set on foot concerning me.
It is unfortunate that your ideas are always so
entangled that it is very difficult to follow
them. But I imagine, so far as I can evolve
anything from such a chaos, that what you
intend me to understand by all this is, that
because one summer night in Eussia long ago
you were Witness of a courageous action on
the ]part of  your friend  you would be sorry
to suppose that he would commit one which
would make him your enemy : is that so ? '

Napraxine made a gesture of assent.

I cannot express myself well,' he murmured.
' But you are so clever you can always
understand '

To sort the black and the white beans set
to Psyche for a task were easier,' quoted his
wife, with her enigmatical smile. ' Still, if I

interpret your meaning aright, it is that. Pray,
then, let your mind be at rest ; the Countess
Othmar is not neglected that I know of, and
if she beys ny suis pour rien'

Then she poured out her chocolate. Na-praise
was reassured by her indifferent
manner, and did not observe that the major
part of his interrogations was still left unanswered.


I was sure of it,' he said with warmth.
He is very much in love with her, is he not ? '

She gave a slight, most eloquent gesture,
indicative of absolute ignorance and of as
absolute indifference.

Ah ! that is another matter which I could
not presume to decide,' she answered with a
little yawn. ' He has been married fourteen
months ; men are not usually in love so long
as that.'

I ' began Napraxine : then he stammered,
paused, and coloured, afraid of her
ridicule.

Yes ; you were,' said his wife, serenely.
But it is very unusual ; it is very undesirable.
I do not think it contributed to your comfort ;
it certainly did not to mine.'

Napraxine sighed.

I should have never changed,' he said with
ardour, though with timidity, as though he
were a lover of eighteen.

'You have never changed,' she said with
that smile which she could render enchanting
in sweetness and in graciousness. ' You have
always been much better to me than I have
deserved, and you have always been the most
generous and the most amiable of men. Now
go ; I have many things to do, and I want my
women.'

Napraxine grew red with pleasure at her
praise, and his pale eyes shone with eagerness,
delight, and the admiration which she had
hated so intensely in the early years of their
marriage. He stooped towards her, breathless
with his gratitude, and his hopes suddenly
aroused after so many years of despair and of
resignation.

ISTadine,' he murmured. ' Even now

now  if you would? None of them have
loved you as I do.'

She stretched out her hand so that his lips,
which would fain have gone elsewhere, were
forced to ream there.

Perhaps lie said vaguely, still with that
enchanting smile which was to him like a
glimpse into Paradise itself. ' Do not ask for
too much at first ; aic revoir.'

Then she rang for her maids, and he was
forced to withdraw ; but he went with all the
forces of a re-awakened passion throbbing in
his veins and beating at his heart, like a swarm
of bees roused by a ray of warmth from winter
torpor.

She, as soon as his step had ceased to echo
along the distant corridors, and the sound of
wheels and horses' feet in the courtyard below
told her that he was about to leave the house,
dismissed her women, saying that she wished to
sleep, and sat alone, with a sense of strong
disgust and of vague anxiety upon her.

I could not allow him to provoke
Othmar,' she thought. ' Anything but that !
anything but that ! '

She would have been capable of any self-sacrifice,
of any concession to her husband,
which could have prevented the hostile meeting
of those men.

A sudden tide of strong emotion swept over
her self-centred and languid life. In that one

moment, in which she had become conscious
of a possible danger to Othmar, she had become
as conscious of the full force of her
regard for him. Love, which had been her
victim, her plaything, her instrument, her servitor,
for so long, became at length the guest
of her own heart, and was stronger than herself.
She had driven that danger away from
his path by the skill of her consummate finesse ;
but she was not wholly reassured, and if to save
him from her husband's suspicions she would be
compelled to make herself the recipient of her
husband's re-awakened tenderness, she felt that
the price would be more hateful than death.

Even the momentary constraint and feigning
which she had put upon herself with her
husband stung all her pride, offended all her
dignity ; she could take no delight in it as
she did usually in the admirable issues of her
most admirable skill in seduction and dissimulation.
A certain impression, which was not
profound enough to be shame but had its
character, remained nth her. She had been
successful as usual, but success did not content
her. She was exceedingly proud ; her delicacy,
which was as susceptible as any sensitive plant

to any rude approach, shrank from the path
into which she had entered. She could take
an intellectual pleasure in adroit dissimulation,
but she had no pleasure in deceiving an honest
confidence. She had always despised with all
the scorn of her nature the covered ways of
intrigue, the hidden resorts of illicit desires ;
her taste as well as her pride had always preserved
her from the pitfalls to which other
women danced with light hearts and light
steps. Some sense of approaching these perils
touched her now and offended her, as with the
presence of some vulgar thing. She saw
clearly enough what Othmar perhaps did not
or would not see, that their mutual love would
soon or late take them on that same road which
all lovers have taken since the days when the
Book was read beneath the garden trees of
Rimini. She was not alarmed or troubled in
any moral sense, but her delicacy and her
hauteur were disturbed. For the first time,
she felt that it was possible for events and
sentiments to have more control over her than
she had over them ; for the first time she had
the sensation of being drawn on by fate in lieu
of herself controlling it.

CHAPTEE Xlii.

In the excitation of his new hopes and of
his happy self-delusions her husband's suspicions
had all died away ; he did not even
notice how completely she had avoided all
direct answer to the questions which had at the
first so offended her. He had not the faintest
conception of how completely he had been put
off his guard, intoxicated by suggested concessions,
and entrapped in the blinding fumes
of awakening affections.

He went, with his usual heavy and slow
tread, but with a heart as light as a youth's
who has heard the first word of encouragement
from lips he loved, out into the noon-day glare
of the Paris streets. During these six years
through which his wife had been no more to
him than the tea-rose which she liked to wear
at her throat, he had grown reconciled to the
inevitable. He had consoled himself with
the thousand and one consolations with which

VOL. III. S

women are always ready to strew the path of a
rich man ; he had not, after the first shock of
her dislike, greatly rebelled or greatly mourned ;
and he had been what his world called a viveur
enrage. Yet at the depths of his soul there had
been always  living, tenacious, indestructible,
exceedingly humble, and infinitely forgiving  a
great love for his wife. If she had cared, she
could have done what she chose with him ; he
would have led the life of an anchorite to win
her favour, and there would have been no heroism
and no folly to which she could not have
impelled him. She had never seen in him anything
except a heavy, stupid, good-humoured
man, who could have a very good manner when
it was wanted, but had hardly more intelligence
than one of his own moulins. She never saw
the possibilities of self-negation and of blind
devotion which slumbered in his nature because
she never felt interest enough in him to look for
them. To see as little of him as was possible,
whilst still remaining in accordance with the
etiquette of the world, was all her study where
Plato Napraxine was concerned.

That he loved her very much she was fully
aware  loved her as only big dogs and un-intellectual

people have the instinct to do  but
the higher qualities which were in him, and
might have been called out had she chosen, she
never knew or would have cared to know.
The natural nobility of his character was
entirely obscured to her beneath the slowness
and dulness of his intelligence, as his corpulent
body and his large appetite wholly concealed
the heroism of poor Louis Seize from France
and from the world.

ISTapraxine, when he left her now, walked
straight to a private club which he often frequented
; a club of great exclusiveness and
distinction, where very high play could be indulged
in every morning, afternoon, and evening.
There he breakfasted, played a little
himself to while away time, and waited the
coming of the Due de Prangins. He waited
until four o'clock ; at that hour, which was
his usual one for entrance there, the elder de
Prangins arrived for his customary afternoon
baccarat.

Napraxine threw down the cards he held,
rose, and approached him.

M. le Due,' he said curtly, ' I have learned
that you have ventured to jest about Madames

2

la Princess Napraxine. I am here to tell you
that I do not allow such jests. If you apologise
for them  well. If not '

I never apologise,' said the Due, as curtly.

Napraxine, without more words, struck him
over the shoulders with a Cane which he
carried. Then lie turned his back on him with
supreme disdain, and sat down again to his
ecarte.

To such an insult there was only one
answer possible. Within fifteen minutes a
hostile meeting was arranged between him and
M. de Prangins, which was to take place on
the following morning at sunrise, in the gardens
of a friend's chateau situated on the road to
Versailles.

The elder de Prangins, though a man of
sixty-five years of age, was of great skill and
address in all offensive and defensive science ;
it was he who had killed the young Piedmontese
prince, d'lvrea, some four years before. He
was a slightly-made man, but very strong and
agile, cold and sure in his attack, and very
careful in his guard He had the reputation
of being a dangerous foe, and, secure in
that reputation, had never condescended to

bridle bis tongue, which was at once coarse
and caustic. For Nadine Napraxine he had
conceived, years earlier, one of those gross, yet
chill, passions of which a man, advanced in
years, is at once tenacious and impatient, proud
and ashamed.

Plato Napraxine finished this game of
ecarte and won it. He was in no degree disturbed
or depressed by the ordeal which lay
before him. He was as happy as a boy to
think that he was about to fight in her cause,
and he pictured to himself how, when all was
over, he would tell her, and perhaps  perhaps
she would smile on him for the recital.
Like many big, strong, and kindly men, he had
a great deal of the lad in him ; he was unworn
in heart, despite all the experiences of his life
in Paris and in Petersburg ; the adoration of his
wife, which he had preserved throughout all
the vulgar amours with which he had sought to
console himself, had served, in a great measure,
to keep his youth alive in him. With a youth's
hopefulness and short-sightedness he longed
now for the moment in which he would say to
her, ' They dared to jest of you, but I was
there ; and they have bitten the dust.'

That night she dined at one house and he
dined at another ; she went later to more than
one ball, at which she showed herself for a
brief hour of the cotillon and then took herself
away, knowing that after her presence there
all other women would pale and pall, as the
stars fade, or seem to fade, when a meteor passes.
She and Othmar had met that night at more
than one house, and she had kept him beside
her more openly and for a longer time than
she had ever done before. It was her manner
of reply to her husband's suspicions and to the
conjectures of the world.

Plato Napraxine returned home earlier
than usual, and waited in a little smoking-room
which opened on to the head of the staircase
that he might hear her arrival, and see her
once, if only as she passed up the stairs. It
was only midnight when he went home, and he
waited one, two, three, four hours ; then he
heard the carriage roll into the inner court and
the door of the private entrance open. He left
the fumoir and walked a few steps downward
to meet her as she ascended the staircase. His
heart thrilled as he saw her in her cloak, made
of soft blush-coloured feathers, with her delicate

head emerging from it as from some
rose-tinted cloud. She herself perceived him
waiting there with that involuntary irresistible
sense of annoyance which was always her first
emotion whenever she saw him anywhere.

She gave him a little careless smile, nodded
a good-night, and would have gone onward,
but he stopped her timidly.

Give me one of those,' he said, as he
touched the knot of tea-roses which were
fastened at her breast.

What nonsense ! ' she said impatiently,
with much real irritation, as she mused, ' If
he play the lover, I shall not keep my patience
! '

Her cloak parted and fell a little off one
arm. His eyes dwelled passionately on the
whiteness of her shoulder, with the great
diamonds sparkling on it, and the jewelled
butterflies trembling as though they took the
blue veins for azure flowers.

With an obstinacy which he had never
dared to show to her before he drew away one
of the tea-roses.

Do not be angry,' he murmured.

She shrugged her shoulders with sovereign

indifference and contempt, and passed up the
stairs.

He looked after her with dim longing eyes.

No shadow of any sort had been upon him
throughout that sunny day  the last day of
April.

The next morning he went nth a perfectly
light heart to the garden outside Paris which
had been chosen as the scene of his encounter
with the Due de Prangins. He had fought
many duels in his time ; he was a fine fencer,
though of late he had neglected to keep his
hand in practice, and he was a man always
of the coolest and most stolid courage. He
had no kind of apprehension of the result ;
he had taken no measures in case he should
fall ; it seemed so entirely impossible ; besides,
all his affairs were in order, all his vast wealth
was disposed of with legal accuracy and care
in documents which were safe in their iron safes
in the muniment room of Zaraizoff; he went to
his appointment with no more thought or apprehension
than he would have gone to the ' tir
aux pigeons.'

He lighted a large cigar and stood chatting
with his friends to the last moment. Now and

then he put his hand in his coat ; it was to feel
for the little rose he had taken from her the day
before ; but his friends could not know that.

For some moments after the rapiers crossed
the duel was bloodless ; a mere display of even
and perfect science on each side; but at the third
encounter his guard was broken ; the sword of
the Due de Prangins entered his left side and
passed straight through the left lung out beneath
the shoulder ; his adversary could not
draw it back ; with the blade transfixing his
breast thus, Plato jSTapraxine fell heavily to the
ground. When they endeavoured to raise him
he looked at them, and his lips moved ; it was
only the hoarsest murmur, but it said once,
twice, thrice  ' Do not tell her ! Do not tell
her ! Do not tell her ! '

They let him he where he was ; they
gathered about him pale and in silence. They
all knew he was a dead man.

For one moment he looked up at the blue
morning sky where the clouds were drifting
and a Hock of swallows was circling with gay
buoyant movement ; there were all the odours
of spring on the air, and the grass which he lay
on was yellow with kingcups and white with

daisies. With his right hand he feebly made
the sign of the cross on his breast ; then he
thrust the same hand within his coat once more,
and with a terrible shuddering, choking sigh
his last breath passed away. When they unloosened
his lifeless fingers they found them
clasped on a faded tea-rose.

Who will tell Princess Napraxine ? ' said
the men around him, with white lips, to one
another.

The man who had killed him, throwing on
his great-coat in haste, said with a cruel smile :
She will have a Te Deem in every church
in Paris. You waste your pity.'

CHAPTER XLV.

Nadine Napeaxine had just quitted her bathroom,
and was taking her chocolate, when her
women, vaguely frightened and so venturing to
disobey her, brought her word that Prince
Ezarhedine begged to see her for a few
moments on an urgent matter. It was noon.
She Alas never visible until three in the daytime
in Paris. She was at first indignant at
such an insolence, then made curious by such
an intrusion. Ezarhedine had been one of her
husband's familiar associates, but he had never
been an intimate friend of her own.

What can he want ? ' she said irritably.
'Send. Yalisoff to him.'

Yalisoff was her own secretary.

But when her servants insisted, contrary to
all their usual timid obedience to her rules,
her inquisitiveness was excited ; she consented
to receive the unbidden and ill-timed visit.
She cast about her a loose gown of cream-heed

China crape, embroidered with pansies
and primroses, put her feet into slippers which
were embroidered like it, and with her beautiful
arms seen through the loose sleeves, and
her eyes still suffused with the languor of
her morning sleep, she passed out into the
small salon adjoining her dressing-chamber.

Prince Ezarhedine, ushered in there, bowed
to the ground, and then stood looking at her
strangely. He was very pale, and there was a
tremor about his mouth.

Madame,' he murmured, and then paused ;
his voice could not be commanded.

She, with her wonderful and instantaneous
penetration into the minds of those who spoke
to her, divined his mission in that one moment
in which this eyes met hers. She went a step
nearer to him, herself looking like some
Aurora of the Italian painters, with her white
floating flower-embroidered robes and her
loose hair bound by an amethyst-hued ribbon.

What have you come to tell me ? ' she
said, in a strange, low voice. ' Is my husband
dead .P '

Ezarhedine bowed in silence.

She shuddered slightly from head to foot ;

her eyes opened wide with an expression of
great terror ; her lips turned white. She sat
down on the nearest seat, and motioned to him
to be seated by her.

Has he fought with Othmar . ' she said
hoarsely, so low that her words were scarcely
intelligible.

With Othmar ? No, madame,' Ezarhedine
answered in surprise ; and told her with whom
he had fought and how he had died.

She heard in perfect silence ; but the colour
had returned to her lips.

Poor Napraxine ; he died for her sake,
and it is only of Othmar that she thought,'
mused Prince Ezarhedine as he left her house
when his painful mission was over.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Othmar was in this own house that day at two
o'clock looking at a portrait, by Cabanel, of his
wife, which had been sent home in the forenoon,
and which had been left standing in the salon,
where she passed most of her hours. The
portrait was one of the triumphs of that elegant
master. He had painted her in a gown of
white velvet, with her favourite peacocks near,
and some high shrubs of red azaleas to lend her
the contrast of ricci colour. The whole composition
Alas a masterpiece of softness, brilliancy,
and sunshine. Othmar stood looking at
it and speaking of it to the Baron and to
Yseulte when Alain de Yannes was ushered
into the room, and, scarcely pausing for the
usual ceremonies of salutation, said abruptly to
him : ' You have heard the news of the morning?
Napraxine is dead.'

The Due had calculated the effect of his
abrupt speech. Othmar, on whose features the

full light was falling from a window of which
the curtains had been drawn back for the
examination of Cabanel's portrait, changed
colour violently, and his whole face expressed
the force of conflicting emotions with which he
was moved. Yseulte watched him, fascinated
with a vague terror ; she had never seen him
violently moved under the influence of any
strong feeling.

Friederich Othmar, alone retaining his
calmness, answered in amazement : ' JSTapraxine !
Napraxine dead! Are you certain? I saw
him last night at midnight ; he was in full health
and spirits.'

Nevertheless he is dead,' said De Yannes,
keeping his gaze on Othmar ; and he related
the circumstances of the duel.

Othmar listened in profound silence ; lie
had recovered his self-control, but the colour
had not returned to his face.

What was the cause ? ' asked Friederich
Othmar, when he had heard aU that there was
to hear.

Alain de Vannes shrugged his shoulders.

De Prangins had spoken jestingly of the
Princess  and someone else. Napraxine heard

of it through some lamentable indiscretion ; lie
insulted the old Duke ; and the result is what I
have said. He was run through the lungs and
died in a few moments. De Prangins relieved
Madame Napraxine of a troublesome lad in
young d'lvrea ; he has now done her a still
greater service by ridding her of the only
ennui in her life which she was sometimes compelled
to endure. I do not know who told her
what had happened, but the body of Napraxine
has already been taken to his house. The duel
was fought in a private garden at Versailles.'

Then he paused, having no more to say,
and, like a good orator, being unwilling to
destroy by detail and difFusenesss the effect of
his unexpected statement.

Othmar muttered a few sentences of conventional
regret and turned away to where
the picture stood. Yseulte followed him with
wistful eyes. She felt that the news had
shocked and startled him strangely, but she
was afraid to seem to have remarked his agitation.
After a few moments he made some
trivial excuse, and left the room.

Friederich Othmar resumed his occupation
of examining Cabanel's work through a lorgnon :

people whom he knew died every day ; it was
not such a simple event as that which could
cause him any excitement, and Eaton Na-praise,
though a very great person in his own
way, had no place in the public life of Europe.

The Due de Vannes approached Yseulte.

My cousin,' he said with gentle mockery,
was poor Xapraxine such a favourite of yours
that you look so stricken with sorrow? If I
had known that my intelligence would have
caused such regret, I would have been less precipitate
in relating it.'

Yseulte coloured ; she was conscious that it
was her husband's emotion, not hers, at which
he jested.

Death is always terrible,' she murmured,
not knowing what to say. * And Prince Xa-
praise always seemed so well, so strong, so
full of health '

De Vannes laughed a little grimly.

Poor JSTapraxine had only one vulnerable
point  his heart ; some gossiper pecked at that
as jays peck at fruit ; and this is the end.
You know he adored his wife, most unfortunately
for himself; she is called the Marie
Stuart of our day, and to complete the parallel,

VOL. III. T

it was necessary for her to be the cause of her
husband's death.'

But  she must suffer now ? ' said Yseulte,
lier golden eyes dim and dark with feeling.

Suffer ? ' echoed Alain de Yannes. ' I see
you do not know Madame Napraxine, though
you meet so often. The long strict Eussian
mourning and all the religious rites will weary
her terribly. Beyond that, she will not be
much distressed, and she will have many 
consolations.'

She has children,' said Yseulte.

The Due smiled.

It was not of her children that I was
thinking,' he said with meaning.

Friederich Othmar turned round from his
examination of the portrait.

'My child,' he said to Yseulte, 'will you
pardon me if I remind you that your horses
have been waiting a long time, and that the
matinee at Princess Hohenlohe's will be more
than half over. M. le Due Avill be kind
enough to excuse the hint ; he is always so
amiable.'

Yseulte, who was still obedient with the
unquestioning submission of her childish days,

rose and bade adieu to her cousin, then went
to her own apartments.

Friederich Othmar turned to the Duke :

Shall we walk down the boulevard together
? ' lie suggested, whilst he thought to
himself, ' That fox shall not get at her ear if I
can help it.'

While Alain de Vannes assented and they
sauntered down the staircase of Othmar's house,
the Due said with a pleasant little laugh :

Ah, my dear Baron, if this duel had taken
place with the same results fifteen months ago
my little cousin would not have been mistress
here ! '

Who knows ? ' said Friederich Othmar,
vaguely, with that bland indifference which was
his favourite mask and weapon.

CHAPTEE XLYIL

As Yseulte went to her own room her way-led
her past the great cedar-wood doors of
her husband's library, that retreat where he
passed so many of those hours of meditation
and of pain,  such hours as in old days led
men of his nature to the isolation of the
cloister. He had always told her that she was
free to enter there ; but the delicacy of her
temper had always made her use the privilege
but rarely ; so rarely, that he had ceased
ever to be afraid of her entrance in moments
when the lassitude or the dejection of his life
overcame him and made him little willing to
meet her gaze. Now, as she passed by the
door, a wistful impulse moved her to see him.
to speak to him, to be spoken to by Mm. She
had an instinctive feeling that this news of
ISTapraxine's death had caused him a greater
shock than she could comprehend or measure ;
all the affection, the adoration, which she bore

him went out to him in this incomprehensible
sorrow.

If he would only tell me '  she thought.

Inspired by that longing for his confidence,
she opened the door. Othmar sat at his writ-unstable,
and his head was bowed down on
his arms ; his back was to her, but his whole
attitude expressed extreme weariness, exceeding
sorrow. When he sprang to his feet at
the sound of the opening door, she saw that
his eyes were weet with tears. He suppressed
both his emotion and his irritation as best he
could, and said to her gently :

Do you want me my dear ? Wait a
moment ; I will be with you.'

He turned from her as if to sort some
papers on his table. She did not advance ; she
stood looking at him with a scared, colourless
face : a truth had come into her mind swift
and venomous as an adder. She thought suddenly
:

If I were not here  she could be his wife
now.'

The secret of his uncontrollable emotion
at the tidings of Napraxine's death was laid
bare to her in one of those flashes of thought

which light up the brain as lightning illumines
the landscape. She mannered some vague
words and left the room : her long training in
silence and self-suppression gave her strength
to repress the cry which rose to her lips.

Othmar scarcely heeded her departure or
heard her answer : his own pain and restless
rebellion against the fate which he had made
for himself absorbed him.

Poor innocent child ! ' he thought once with
self-reproach. ' She millet never know ; it was
I who sought her  I must keep her in her
illusions as best I may.'

He did not know that her illusions had
been killed in that moment of cruel certainty,
as once in the church of S. Pharamond his
orchids and azaleas had perished in a single
night of frost.

She told her people to have the horses taken
back to the stables : she felt unwell ; she would
not go out that morning ; then she locked herself
in her own apartments. She could not
face that world of Paris, which would bespeaking
all the day of one theme,  the death
of Prince Napraxine.

It was the last day of April ; the sunshine

was streaming through the gardens of the
great hotel, and through her open windows
there came the scent of opening lilac buds and
blossoming hawthorn boughs. Like the year
and the earth, she was in the early sweetness
of her youth ; yet old age hardly knows a more
chill and cruel sense of loneliness and desolation
than was with her now as she lay, face
downward, on her bed, and sobbed her youth
away. With instantaneous and merciless force
the truth had broken in upon her at last ; she
suddenly realised that she had no place in the
heart of Othmar, and was but a burden on his
life. She realised that she had been taken in
pity, wedded in generosity and compassion, but
without one passing gleam or throb of love.
She marvelled that she could have been so
blind before. All the memories which thronged
upon her brought with them a thousand inexorable
witnesses of the truth. The knowledge
of the world which she had learned of late
was like a lamp shedding its cruel rays on
every damning fact.

For long she had known, she had felt, that
her husband cared only for one woman upon
earth, and that woman not herself. But never

until now had the conviction come to her of
how cruelly and eternally she barred the way
between him and his happiness and his desires.
The weakness and the defects of the early training
which she had received now told upon her
character, making her shut close in her own
soul all she suffered, and enabling her to keep
perfect silence on all she had discovered. Without
that acquired habit of reserve, her natural
candour and trustfulness would have impelled
her to give some confidence, to receive some
counsel, in her dire distress, would have even
brought her to her husband's side. But the
pride which was in her blood was united with
the power of self-repression engendered by the
teachings she had received. In any sorrow
which had not also been humiliation, in any
fault which had been her own, not his, she
would have thrown herself at Othmar's feet
and confessed all that she felt. But this was
impossible to her now ; the words would have
choked her ; she could not say to him : ' I know
I am only a pensioner on jour pity and your
generosity ; ' she could not say to him, ' I know
that I stand between you and one whom you
loved before ever you saw me.' More undisciplined

and less delicate tempers might have
found some refuge in such passionate lamentation
and revelation, but to Yseulte de Valogne
such outbursts of reproach were impossible ;
they would have been contrary to every habit
of her young life, to every tradition of the
order and of the race from which she sprang.
The vulgar cry out when they are hurt,' her
grandmother had said once to her during the
siege of Paris ; ' but for us  there are only two
things possible  either vengeance or silence.'

Those words came back upon her mind as
she lay upon her bed, whilst the sweet fresh
winds of the spring-time blew the scent of the
lilac and hawthorn across her chamber.
Vengeance there could be none for her ; he
had been her saviour, her protector, her
kindest friend, her lover, whom she adored
with all the ignorant, innocent, mute Worship of
first love ; there only remained the alternative
silence.

There was something of the dumb obstinacy
of the Breton in her, and much also of the
Breton force of heroism ; the heroism which
does not speak, but bears and acts, immovable
and uncomplaining. That great strength of

endurance enabled her now to recover her self-control
by the time that she was forced to
meet Othmar again, and to go into her drawing-rooms
at eight o'clock before the hour of
dinner, with no trace of what she had suffered
upon her except in the pallor of her face and
the dark shade beneath her eyes.

Are you feeling ill, my dear child ? ' said
her husband, as he met her. ' I hear you have
not been out to-day, and you had many
engagements ? '

She murmured some vague answer ;  she
had been lying down ; her head ached.

He answered her with some tender expressions
of regret, and inquired no more. Her
health was delicate and fluctuating at that
moment ; he supposed that it was natural that
she had such occasional hours of depression.

They chanced to be alone at dinner that
evening, which was unusual. Neither of them
spoke many words. When he addressed her
it was with the utmost kindliness and gentleness
of tone, but he said little, and his own preoccupation
prevented him from noticing how
constrained were her replies, how forced her
smiles.

She observed, with a cruel tightening of
her heart, that he never anuded to the death of
his friend Napraxine.

When dinner was over, she said to him
very calmly :

'There are several engagements for tonight
too, but if you will allow me, I will stay
at home. I am a little  tired.'

Certainly, my dear,' he said at once.
Never go into the world but when it amuses
you; and your health is of far more value
than any other consideration. Shall I call your
physicians ? '

'Oh no ; it is nothing. I am only a
little fatigued,' she said hurriedly ; and as he
stooped to touch her cheek with his lips she
tiu-ned her head quickly, and for the first
time avoided his caress.

He was too absorbed in his own tlioudits
even to observe the significance of the involuntary
gesture. He led her to the doors of her
own apartments, kissed her hand, and left her.

Sleep well,' he said kindly, as he might
have spoken to a sick child.

But to Yseulte it seemed that she would
never sleep again.

CHAPTEE Xlviii.

Foe some days his world spoke only of the
death of Plato Napraxine in the full vigour of
his manhood. Men regretted him honestly,
and many women mourned for him as sincerely,
if with less disinterestedness. His body was
taken to Zaraizoff, and there consigned to rest
amidst the dust of his ancestors with all the
pomp and splendour of a funeral, barbaric and
gorgeous, like every other ceremony of his
country. His mother and his little sons were
there ; his wife was absent. She had withdrawn
herself to a secluded chateau in the
Lake of Geneva, which had been the property
of her father, and no one had access to her.

What did she feel . Xo one could know ;
scarcely could she have told, herself, so entangled
and so conflicting were the emotions by which
she was swayed. Two sentiments alone were
distinct to her amidst the uncertainty of her
thoughts ; the one was regret that her last words

had been to him words impatient and unkind ;
the other an intense rage against herself that
by one involuntary question she had betrayed
herself to Prince Ezarhedine. It had been the
solitary moment in all her life in which anxiety
had conquered her composure, and her perfect
self-control had failed her.

After the day which brought the dead body
of Napraxine to his house, and bore him up
that beautiful staircase, where his heavy tread
and his unlovely presence had so often seemed
so unwelcome and so out of place, she had
seen no one save those great ecclesiastics and
high functionaries who were perforce admitted
to her presence. Cards, dispatches, and letters
were piled a foot deep in her ante-chamber,
but she took no heed of any ; her secretary
had one formal reply with which he was
instructed to receive one and all. Of the
thousands who knew her throughout Europe,
Othmar alone sent no word and made no sign.

She understood his silence.

She made no affectation of a woe she could
not feel or be expected to feel ; all the world
had known how profound had been her indifference
for her husband, and how often intolerant

had been her clishke of hmi. But all
that good taste and good breeding could dictate
in respect to his memory she did ; and she
withdrew herself absolutely from the sights and
sounds of the world in accordance with the
severe usages of his country and with the tragic
fate to which he had succumbed. For once
her serenity had received a shock which,
momentarily at least, affected and dispelled it ;
for once her languid observation of the ways
of life and of death had been quickened to a
dual feeling of mingled rejoicing and remorse.
The sense of her own liberty was lovely to her,
slight as had been the pressure of the bonds she
wore ; but her recognition of Plato Napraxine's
character had never been so just or so warm
as now when his living presence, his physical
personality were no longer there to
offend her taste and fret her patience. All the
dispositions of his testament, all the entire
trust they showed in her, all the immense possessions
he bequeathed to her, touched her with
that consciousness of magnanimity and generosity
in this despised nature which had at
times visited her during his lifetime, but had
always been repulsed. Had it been possible

for him to have returned to earth, he voiild
have been as intolerable to her as before ; but
dead,  knowing; that never more would he
importune or trouble her with his unwelcome
tenderness,  she remembered him with contrition
and almost with remorse. The consciousness
that never had she given him even
one kind word in return for all his royal gifts
and loyal worship hurt her sense of honour ;
when she remembered that the only praise she
had ever accorded to him had only been part
of a scene of dissimulation with which she had
lulled his just suspicions, all the courage and
candour which were natural to her rose up in
her conscience and accused her of ingratitude
and of treachery. Nor did she shrink from the
med culpa which her self-reproach exacted.
She had never been a coward before her own
conscience if her egoism had often made her
sleep serenely, deaf to its voice. She did not
disguise to herself that she had been neither
merciful nor just to the dead man, neither
worthy of his unquestioning confidence nor of
his unmeasured devotion. She remembered
many a time when a kind word would have cost
her nothing and would have been so much to

him. But, then, if she had spoken it, he would not
have understood ; he would have presumed on
it ; he would have imagined that it gave him
every privilege ; he had always been so stupid ;
he had never been able to understand a demi-mot
 there had been no choice but to use the
whip and chain to this poor blundering, fawning,
loving hound, who would not otherwise
comprehend how intolerable were this offered
caresses.

Now the ' big dog ' was dead and could
never more offend.

Perhaps she had been harsh, she thought
sometimes.

In the solitude of the slow-coming chilly
spring of the Canton de Yard, Nadine Nap-raine
was left alone with her own thoughts.
She remained in the strictest seclusion, willing
to concede so much to the usages of her nation
and the tragedy of his death. The isolation
seemed very strange to her, accustomed as she
was to have the most brilliant of societies, the
most solicitous of courtiers, the most witty of
associates, for ever about her. Her life had
been always dans le mouvement, always seeking,
if not always finding, distraction, always filled

with the voices and the laughter of the world.
In this complete solitude, where only her
household were near her and there was no
other sound than the fall of water, the burr of
bees, the rush of a distant avalanche falling
down the mountain side, or the lilt of a boatman's
song echoing from the lake, it seemed to
her as if it were she  or all the world  who
was dead.

It had been suggested to her that she
should have her children there, but she had
rejected the idea instantly.

Xow that I am free,' she thought, ' for
heaven's sake, let me forget the hours of my
captivity if I can.'

They were well cared for ; they should
always be well cared for ; she would never
allow their interests to be neglected or their
fortunes to be imperilled ; but the sons of
Plato Napraxine could never be more to her
than the issue of a union she had loathed,
the living records of a time of intense humiliation
and disgust. Her retirement was not
nominal ; no guests passed her gates except
those members of her husband's family and of
her own whom it was impossible to refuse to see.

VOL. III. U

Even they could not tell whether she rejoiced
or grieved. She was serene and impassible ;
she never said a syllable which could let any
light in upon her own emotions ; when she
spoke, if it were not with her usual malice, it
was with all her usual skill at phrases which
revealed her intelligence and hid her heart.
She omitted none of the observances which
Eussian etiquette required from one in her
position, and at the long religious services in
honour of the dead she was careful to render
the respect of her presence, though they meant
no more to her than the buzzing of the bees in
the laburnum and acacia flowers.

The tedious days passed monotonous and
alike.

For the first time in her life she submitted
to ennui without revolt ; and if in the dewy
silent evenings of the early summer she went
down to the steps which overlooked the lake,
and leaned there, and drew in the breath of the
mountain air with a new invigorating sense of
freedom from a burden which had for ever
galled her, though she had borne it so lightly,
no one was offended by that exhilaration, for
no one was witness of it ; even as no one, either,

ever knew how in sncli evening musings as
these an angry cloud would come upon her
face and an impatient regret stir at her heart
as she thought  why had not Othmar had
patience ?

She remembered him with a restless and
unwilling tenderness.

The knowledge of how his name had escaped
her to Ezarhedine was constantly present
to her mind, and the recollection fretted and
irritated her with all the mortification of a
strong pride indignant at its own self-betrayal.
Ezarhedine would, no doubt, relate the story
of her momentary weakness to her friends and
his. She had no belief in the discretion of
men ; they had their views and principles of
honour, no doubt, but she had never known
these remain superior to the impulses of their
indiscretion or their inquisitiveness ; they were
always talkative as gossips round a market
fountain, curious as children before a case of
unpacked toys.

V 2

CHAPTEE XLIX.

Whilst she was thus-withdrawn from the
world in the observance if not in the regrets of
mourning, Othmar left Paris for the seclusion
of the chateau of Amyot.

The summer and the autumn months seemed
to both him and Yseulte long and cruel ; all
the beauty of Amyot in the blossoming hours
could not make their life there happy to either
of them. Since the death of Napraxine a great
constraint had come between them. Each of
them was sensible of thoughts and of emotions
which neither would, or could, confide in the
other.

Friedrich Othmar came and went between
Paris and the great Renaissance chateau, but
he was powerless to alter what he deplored.
There was not even any definite thing of which
he could speak. There was no fault ever to be
found in the gentleness and courtesy of Othmar
to his wife ; and there was no alteration in the

deference and the docility which she always
showed to him. Only there was something
wanting : there was no spontaneity ; there was
no sympathy ; there was none of that unspoken
gladness which exhales from all real happiness
as its fragrance from the rose. The wise old
man said to himself, impatient and regretful,
Why did Napraxine die ? But for that, time
would have been her friend. He would have
grown used to her sweet presence, and" habit
would have brought content. But now ! '

Now, he knew that with every day which
dawned, with every night which fell, Othmar
brooded, night and day, over his lost future,
destroyed by his own rash haste.

All his mind was with Racine Napraxine,
and it fretted him at times almost beyond
endurance that he could see her and hear of
her no more, know no more of her than all her
world knew, or than the chronicles of the hour
stated for public information. It seemed to
him as it did to her, as if the strangest silence
had fallen on the earth. He loved her infinitely
more than he had ever done, intense
and unscrupulous as had been the passion
which she had aroused in him. She was

entirely free ; and he  lie who had adored her
dared not even enter her antechamber or
go where he could see her shadow fall upon
the ground she trod !

The silence and the self-effacement of
Yseulte were the most dangerous anodynes
which he could have had. He dreamed his
life away in visions of joys which never could
be his, and the resignation of his young companion
allowed him to dream on roused.

Friederich Othmar saw his increasing preoccupation,
his growing love of solitude, his
impatience when he was recalled by force to
the things of actual life, and he could have
gnashed his teeth with rage and sorrow.

He will never live out his years away
from his sorceress,' he thought ; ' and when
they meet again, she will do what she
chooses with him. If she like to make him
the ridicule of Europe, he will accept his fate
and deem it heaven. Whilst Yseulte  Yseulte,
before she is twenty, will be widowed in fact
and left to the consolation of some little child,
plucking the daisies on the sward here at her
feet.'

To Friederich Othmar love had ever seemed

the most puerile of delusions, the most illogical
of all human fallacies, but now it took a
teacher shape before him, and he began to
comprehend why poets  interpreters of human
madness as they were  had likened it to the
witch's mandrake, to the devouring sea, to
the flame which no power can quench, to
all things terrible, irresistible, and deadly as
death.

Occasionally an impulse came to Yseulte to
tell everything to Melville, who was not her confessor,
but who had known all her people so well
in their days of trial and adversity ; but her pride
repressed the instinct of confidence. Besides,
she thought drearily, she knew well all that
Melville would answer  the only reply, indeed,
which would be possible to him in such a case
he would exhort her to patience, to hope,
to trust in heaven and in her husband. The
originality of his character would not be able
to escape from the platitudes of custom ; he
would only say to her what she coidd say to herself,
' Be courageous and be calm ; time often
heals all woes.'

Sometimes, too, she thought wistfully that
if she bore a Having child perhaps she would

reach some higher place in her husband's
heart.

She had heard it often said that children
formed a tie between those who were even indifferent
to each other. At least  at least,
she reflected, and strove to solace herself with
this hope,  as the mother of a living child of
his, she would be something in his house more
than a mere form to wear his jewels and
receive his indifferent caresses. Perhaps, she
thought, if her eyes looked up at him from
his child's face, he might grow to care for hera
little. At least she would be something to
him that Nadine Napraxine was not. It was
a desolate kind of consolation to be the only
one within reach of a girl scarce eighteen years
old ; a sadly forlorn and wistful hope ; but it
was something to sustain her in the midst of
her perfect isolation of thought and suffering,
and it prevented her abandonment to despair.
She had one of those natures to which tenderness
is more natural than passion ; her character
was of that gentle and serious kind
which enables a woman to endure the desertion
of her lover if the arms of a child are about
her. And so she awaited the future patiently,

without much trust in its mercies, yet not
without courage and not wholly without hope.

She looks very ill,' said the most observant
of all her friends, Friederich Othmar, more than
once to her husband. But Othmar replied
that it was only the state of her health, and the
elder man protested in vain.

You think a girl of those years can be
satisfied with bearing your children and being
left alone in beautiful houses as a cardinal bird
is shut up in a gilded cage . ' he said irritably.

'She is certainly not left alone,' replied
Othmar with annoyance ; ' and I believe that
she is precisely of that docile and religious temperament
which will find the greatest enjoyment
of existence in maternity. There are
women formed for that kind of self-sacrifice
beyond all others. She is one of them.'

It is not the only sacrifice to which she is
condemned ! ' muttered Friederich Othmar, but
he feared to do more harm than good if he
explained himself more clearly.

Has she been complaining to you ? ' asked
her husband with increasing auger.

She would never complain,' returned his
uncle positively, ' Besides, my dear Otho, whatever

we may all think of you, to her you are a
demi-god, the incarnation of all mortal and
immortal excellences. She would as soon
strike the silver Christ that hangs over her bed
as consent to see a flaw in your perfections ! '

Othmar only replied by an impatient gesture.


Both irritation and self-reproach were
aroused in him, but they did no more than
disquiet and annoy him. He saw no means
by which he could be kinder, or gentler, or
more generous, to Yseulte than he was already.
Love was not his to command. He could not
help it if day by day an unsatisfied passion
gnawed in him for an absent woman, and if
day by day the fair face of his young wife
receded farther and farther from him into the
shadowy distance of a complete indifference.
All which he could compel himself to render, 
consideration, deference, kindness, attention, 
all these he poured out upon Yseulte with the
utmost liberality. What was missing was not
in his power to give. He felt with a shudder
that the longer time went on, the more
their lives passed together, the greater would
grow the coldness he felt for her. He recognised

all her sweetness and grace ; he was
not ungrateful for the affection she bore him ;
he admired the many delicate beauties of her
mind and character. But she was nothing to
him ; she never would have the power to
quicken his pulses by one second. She was all
that purity, honour, and spirituality of thought
could make her ; but she had no place in his
heart. He had even to struggle hard with
himself at times not to let the sense of her perpetual
presence there become almost an offence
to him. He was a generous man, and he had
always striven to be just, but he knew that he
failed to be just to her because of the fret and
fever of his own thoughts, which left him no
peace, but kept repeating for ever the same
burden : 'The woman you love is free now.
fool ! fool ! '

He believed that he altogether concealed
all that he felt from Yseulte. He did not
dream that she had divined his secret. Her
manner, which had never been demonstrative,
but had been always marked by that mixture
of shyness and of stateliness which were most
natural to her, was not one which displayed
the changes of every emotion ; she had been

reared in too perpetual a sense that it was
both low and coarse to show the inner feelings
of the heart by abrupt and transparent signs
of emotion, and the calm hiofh breeding
of her habitual tone was as a mask, though a
most innocent one, and hid alike her sorrow,
her fear, her jealous terrors, and her wistful
tenderness.

I must never trouble him,' she said to
herself again and again. She knew that she
could not take away from him the burden of
her life ; that she coidd not release him from
the vows he had vowed to her ; but she did her
uttermost to efface herself otherwise. In these
tranquil summer months no one saw more amiss
with her than a certain melancholy and lassitude,
which were attributed to the state of her
health. She was often alone, by choice, in the
great gardens and the forest nooks of the park,
and those poor little timid verses in which her
soul found some kind of utterance were the only
confidants of her grief and pain. They were
poor things, she knew, but her heart spoke in
them with involuntary, though feeble and
halting, speech. They did her some little good.
She had no mother or friend to whom she

could say what she suffered, and from a priest
she shrank ; her woes  the mental woes of
neglected love, the physical woes of approaching
parturition  could not be told to any man.

No one has wanted me all my life ! ' she
thought one day, as she sat in the gardens of
Amyot, whilst lier eyes filled with blinding
tears. Her father had never heeded her ; her
grandmother had cared for her, indeed, but
had willed her budding life to the cloister, as a
thing for which there was no place amidst the
love and the laughter of the earth. She had
been dependent, undesired, on her cousin's
charity, and to her husband she was as little as
the does that couched at noon under his forest
trees. Into one had ever wanted her ! The
knowledge lay on her young life as a stone lies
on the bird Avliich it has killed. Through the
hot mist of her tears she gazed wistfully at the
long lines of the majestic house which only a
year before had been to her the centre of such
perfect happiness. And even that happiness he
had never shared !

The hush of the golden noon-day was
about her, and the perfume of innumerable
roses filled the air.

My little cliikl will want me,' she thought,
with a throb of hope at her heart.

After a little while she rose and walked towards
the house. Othmar, who had come out
from his library on to the terrace, saw her in the
distance, and descended the steps to meet her.

Do not tire yourself, my dear,' he said ashe
offered her his arm.

His very gentleness almost hurt her more
than unkindness or discourtesy would have
done. She seemed to see in it how he strove,
by all the tenderness of outward ceremonial, to
atone for the absence of all tenderness of the
heart,  to pay so liberally in silver because he
had no gold to give.

She had brushed her tears away before she
had risen to return to the house ; her features
were calm, as usual, and if their expression was
grave, that was not new with her. She had
looked almost as much so on that first night
when he had seen her sitting alone in the
drawing-rooms of Milloo.

As she walked beside him through the aisles
of flowers in the sunshine of the brilliant noonday,
she said, with her eyes lowered and her
voice very low :

If  if  I should die this time, would you
remember always how much I have felt all
your goodness to me ? I cannot say all I feel
well  but I hope you would always believe
how grateful I had been  when you should
think of me at all.'

Othmar was touched and startled by the
words.

My dear child, do not speak so. Pray do
not speak so,' he said, with real emotion.
Send away such cruel thoughts. You must
live long, and see your children's children
running amidst these roses. You are hardly
more than a child yourself in years even yet.
And as for gratitude  that is not a word
between us ; what is mine is yours.'

I want you to be sure of it  to never
doubt it  if I die,' she said, in the same low,
measured voice. ' I am always grateful.'

Then she withdrew her hand from his arm,
and sat down for a moment on one of the
marble seats beneath the great terrace. She
looked over the wide sunlit landscape, the
radiant gardens, the dark masses of the forests,
the green plains and shining river far beyond.
Her heart was full ; words sprang to her lips,

fraught with all the varying emotions of the
past montis. She longed to cry out to him,
Ah, yes ! You do not love me, I know !  I
know ! But is there nothing I could do ? I
would give my life, my soul .'

But timidity and pride both held her mute.
The moment passed ; he never saw, as he
might have seen, into her innocent heart if
she had spoken.

The late autumn came, and her child was
born as the first red leaves were blown upon
the wind. But, enfeebled by the distress of her
mind during so many months before its birth,
it only breathed a little while the air of earth,
then sank into death as a snowdrop sinks faded
in the snow. The solace which she had looked
to as a staff of comfort and of hope broke in two
like a plucked reed.

An intense melancholy closed in upon her,
from which no effort could rouse her. She
said little ; but when she rose from her bed
and resumed her daily life, all alone in her
heart was the one great grief which had now
no hope to lighten it.

They strove to make her remember how
young she was, what unspent years yet lay to

her account, what unci reamed of treasuries of
new happiness were yet untouched by her ;
but nothing availed to give her any consolation.

The pale sunshine of the early winter found
her white and chilled as itself. For she had a
deeper pang than ever in her heart since she
said ever to herself in her solitary grief : ' He
does not care ; he is good, he is gentle, he is
compassionate ; but he does not care.'

All her young life writhed in secret beneath
that kindness which was only pitiful,
that tenderness which was only conventional.

'I am nothing; in his life,' she thought
with tenfold bitterness. ' Nothing.  nothings 
nothing ! Even for my child's death he does
not really care ! '

A woman far away, unseen, almost unheard
of, was sole mistress of his existence. Withall
the terrible insight which a love forsaken
and solitary possesses into the secrets of the
life to which it clings, she read the thoughts
and the emotions of Othmar as though they
were written on some open page lit by a strong
lamp. Although never a word of self-betrayal
escaped him, never more than an involuntary
gesture of lassitude or an unconscious sigh, she

VOL. III. X

yet knew how utterly one recollection and one
desire alone reigned over him and dominated
him. She was no more a child, but was a
woman humiliated, wounded, isolated, who
suffered far the more because her wounds were
not those which she could show, her humiliation
was not such as she could reveal, and her
isolation was one of the spirit, and not of the
body.

You must not mourn as those who have
no hope,' said Melville to her, believing that
her continued melancholy was due to the loss of
lier offspring. ' You are so young ; you will
have many other children ; all kinds of joy will
return to you, as their foliage will return to
these leafless trees. Be grateful, my dear, to
heaven for all the mercies which abide with
you.'

She said nothing ; but she turned her eyes
on him one moment with an expression so
heart-broken and weary that he was startled
and alarmed.

'What grief can she have that we know
not ? ' he marvelled. ' Othmar does not leave
her ; and he is the last man on earth to be
cruel or even ungentle to a woman,'

For a moment he was tempted to refer his
doubts to her husband ; but, on reflection, he
dared not. He had a sensitive fear of being
deemed meddlesome, as priests so often are
called ; and it Alas difficult to make to Othmar
a very sensitive man, and at all times uncommunicative
 so strange an accusation as
would seem to lie in saying to him, 'The
companion of your life is unhappy : what have
you done ? '

The winter in the country of the Orleans
grew very cold and damp ; the rivers
flooded many parts of the plains, and the end
of the year menaced violent storms and widespread
floods. Her physicians begged Yseulte
to go elsewhere, and recommended a southern
air ; they spoke of S. Pharamond, and Othmar,
though vaguely reluctant to go thither, consented,
for he had no valid reason of refusal
to give. To Yseulte herself any movement
appeared indifferent ; to whatever was proposed
she always assented passively ; the
acquiescence of one whom no trifles or accidents
of fate have power to hurt, and which
belongs alike to perfect happiness and absolute
despair.

X 2

Othmar would have given ten years of his
life to have been able to go away by himself,
to wander north, south, east, or west in solitary
desolation, to be alone with his undying desires,
and away from the innocent presence of a
creature whom he knew that he wronged
by every thought with which he rose at daybreak
and lay down at night.

Yseulte had never been more to him thana
sweet and tender-hearted child, whose personal
beauties had for a little while beguiled
him into the semblance of a faint passion, into
a momentary semi-oblivion, always imperfect
and evanescent. But now, quiet as she was,
and careful as she was never to betray herself,
nevertheless a constant reproach seemed to look
at him from her eyes, and her continual
vicinity seemed as continual a rebuke. He
was not a man, as many are, who could lightly
neglect or deceive a woman ; he was incapable
of the half-unconscious cruelty with which
many men, when their fancy has passed, leave
the object of it in pitiable solitude, to console
herself as best she can ; he had too much
sensitiveness and too much sense of chivalrous
obligation to deny, even to his own reflections,

the claims which his wife had on him for
sympathy and affection. That he could not
give them to her, because all his heart and soul
and mind were with another woman, burdened
him with a perpetual sense of injustice and
offence done to her. He had sought her ; he
had taken her life voluntarily into his ; he
knew that it would be a treachery and a baseness
to fail in his duty towards her. For that
very reason her daily presence galled him
almost beyond endurance, and, though he
forced himself to remain beside her and to
preserve to her every outward semblance of
regard, his whole life chafed and rebelled, as
the horse frets which is tied in stall to its
manger, whilst all its longing is for the liberty
of the pasture and the air.

If Melville had followed his impulse and
said to him, ' What fault can there be in her ? '
he would have answered truthfully, ' None : all
the fault is my own ; ' and he would have
thought in secret : ' She has that involuntary
fault which is the cruellest of all others : she
is not the woman I love ! '

He had to put strong constraint upon himself
not to shrink from the sound of her create

voice, not to avoid the glance of her wistful
eyes ; he was afraid that she should read the
truth of his own utter indifference in his regard ;
he felt with horror of himself that it was even
growing something greater, something worse,
tian mere indifference ; that soon, do what
he would, he would be only able to see in
her the barrier betwixt himself and the fate
he coveted.

Good God ! what miserable creatures weare
! ' he thought. ' I meant, as honestly as a
man could ever mean anything, to make that
poor child's days as perfect in happiness as
mortal life can be, and all I have actually done
is to sacrifice uselessly both her and myself!
Heaven send that she may never find it out
herself ! '

He was far from suspecting that she had
already discovered the truth. All the fine prescience,
the quickness at reading trivial signs
and forming from them far-reaching conclusions,
which love lends to the dullest were
absent from him, because love itself was absent.
Her pride gave her a sure mask, and he had
not the lover's impulse which looks for the face
beneath.

Their lives outwardly passed in apparent
unison and sympathy. He seldom left her
save Avhen any urgent matter took him for a
brief space to Paris or some other European
capital, and the days passed as evenly and unmarked
by any event at the chateau of S.
Pharamond as at that of Amyot. People of a
conspicuous position can seldom enjoy solitude,
and the demands of society provide them with
a refuge from themselves if embarrassment has
forced them to need one Othmar, who had
at no time been willing to open the doors of
his house to the world, now became almost
solicitous to have the world about him. It
spared him that solitude a deux which, so exquisite
to the lover and to the beloved, is so
intolerable to the man who knows that lie is
loved but has no feeling; to bestow in answer.
Throughout the early winter months they were
seldom or never alone. Yseulte said nothing
when he urged her to surround herself with
people, but obeyed with a sinking heart. She
was very proud ; lie remained tranquil and
gentle in manner to him and to everyone, and,
if she were at times more pensive than suited
her years or her world, it was attributed by all

who knew her to the loss of her child. She grew
thin and white, and was always very grave ;
but she had so admirable a courtesy, so patient
a smile for all, that not a soul ever dreamed her
heart was breaking in her breast.

Sometimes when she was quite alone she
wandered up the hill-side beneath the olive
trees to the bastide of Nicolee Sandroz, and sat
amidst the blossoming violets, the tufts of
hepaticas, with a strange dull wonder in her at
herself. Could it be only two years ago since
she had seen Othmar coming in the dusk beneath
the silvery boughs and had learned on
the morrow that he had asked her hand in
marriage ?

Nicolee watched her wistfully, but she, too,
who had lost her petit in the days of her
youth, believed that the melancholy which she
saw in her darling was due to the death of her
offspring. She strove, in ruder words, but in
the same sense, to console her as Melville had
done. Yseulte smiled gently, thanked her, and
said nothing. What was the use, she mused,
of their speaking to her of the future ? The
future, whatever else it brought, would only
take the heart and the thoughts of her husband

farther and farther from her. She knew still
but little of the world, but she knew enough to
be conscious that the woman Who fails in the
early hours of her marriage to make her
husband her lover will never in the years to
come find him aught except a stranger. All
the sensitive hauteur of her nature shrank from
the caresses which she knew were only inspired
by a sense of pity or of duty. She drew
herself more and more coldly away from him,
whilst yet the mere sound of his voice in the
distance made all her being thrill and tremble.
And he was too grateful for the relief to seek
to resist her alienation.

He did not guess, because he did not care to
guess, that she loved him so intensely that she
would stand hidden for hours merely to see
him pass through the gardens or ascend the
sea stairs of the little quay. Her timidity had
always veiled from him the intensity of her
affections, and now her pride had drawn a
double screen between them.

He only pitied me then ! ' she thought, as she
sat amongst the violets at Nicolee's flower farm.
He only pities me now ! '

Pity seemed to this daughter of a great race

the last of insult, the whole thrown to the
beggar which brands him as beggar for evermore.


I was hungered, and he gave me bread ;
I was homeless, and he sheltered me ! ' she
said, in the agony of her heart. ' And I  I
thought that love ! '

CHAPTER L.

With the turn of the year and the springing of
the crocuses her cousins had come to Milloo.
When she was in their presence she was more
careful than at any other time that no one
should see in her any pain which could be
construed by them into a reproach against
Othmar.

She grows proud and cold,' said the
Duchesse. ' The women of her blood have
always been like that  religious and austere.
It is a pity. It will age her before her time ;
and it is not at all liked in the world nowadays
 save just at Lent.'

Blanchette, with her keen mystic-coloured
eyes, saw farther than lier mother saw. She
did not dare to tease her cousin, or to banter
her, but she looked sometimes with curiosity
and wonder in her face.

One day, in a softer mood than was usual
with her, she came over the gardens from Milloo

and found her way to her cousin. Blanchette
Heed to be welcome at S. Pharamond ; her shrewd
little senses smelt the fragrance in all wealth
which dogs find in the truffle ; she was always
asking for things and getting them, and though
she was afraid of Othmar as far as she could
be of anyone, she retained amongst her respect
for Yseulte's position her derision for what she
termed her romanticism, her Puritanism, and
her habitual ignorance of how to extract the
honey of self-indulgence from the flowers of
pleasure. But Blanchette had all the wisdom
of the world in lier little fair, curly head, and
though at times her malicious impulses conquered
her judgment, she usually repressed
them out of reverence for the many good
gifts which fell to her from her cousin's hands,
and those instincts of ' modernity ' which forced
her to worship where so much riches were.

She came into the garden salon this day, the
one where Melville had once said to Othmar
that to make a home Alas in the power of any
man not a priest. Her eyes were watchful and
her manner important ; but Yseulte, to whom
the child's presence was always irksome, though
her gratitude to their mother forced her always

to receive the little sisters with apparent willingness,
had not observation enough, or thought
enough of her, to notice those signs. She was
alone ; it Alas two hours after the noon breakfast
; Othmar was away, she knew not where ;
he had gone out early in the forenoon. She
was lost in the weariness of those thoughts
which occupied her unceasingly, when the
pretty gay figure of the child tripped up tu
her side, and the thin hisli voice of lier beo-an
its endless chatter.

They were talking about you yesterday
after the dejeuner' she said, after her discursive
gossip had embraced every subject and person
then of interest to her, peeking at each one of
them furtively, petulantly, as a well-fed mouse
pecks at crumbs of cake. ' They were saying
how beautiful you were ; even mamma said
that, and they all agreed that if only you were
not so grave, so cold, so almost stiff, nobody
would be admired more than you. But men
think you do not care, so they do not care.
It is true,' added Blanchette, studying the face
of her cousin out of the corner of her eye,
it is true that the Princess Napraxhie, whom
they are always so mad about, is just as indifferent

too. But then it is another kind of
indifference  hers. She is always provoking
them with it, on purpose. You go through a
room as if you were saying a paternoster under
your breath. It is a great difference '

It is, no doubt, a great difference,' said
Yseulte, with more bitterness than she was
aware of; the idle words struck at the hidden
wound within her. The difference was vast
indeed between herself and the woman whom
her husband loved !

Blanchette watched her sharply, herself
sitting on a stool at her feet.

Do you know,' she said, pulling the ears
of Yseulte's great dog, ' that she is coming 
indeed, I think, is here ? I heard them say so
yesterday. It seems that the Prince bought
that little villa and gave it to her  La Jacque-neville
 when they were here two years ago.
She is very rich, you know. Her husband has
left her such immense properties, and then I
think she had a great deal of money all of her
own, before his death, from some distant relative,
who left it to her because she did not want it ;
it is always like that.'

Yseulte rose abruptly. Blanchette could

not see her face, but she saw her left hand,
which trembled.

As far as the child liked anyone, she was
attached to her cousin ; since her marriage
Yseulte had been extremely generous and kind
to her, and the selfish little heart of Blanchette
had been Avon, as far as ever it could be won,
by its affections which where only another form
of selfishness. She had been unable to resist
the temptation of telling her news, and saying
what was unkind ; and yet in her way she was
compassionate.

Why are you so very still and grave ? ' she
said now after a pause. ' They say it is because
the child died, but that cannot be it ;
it is nonsense ; you would not care like that.
Do you know now what I think ? Do not be
angry. I think that you are so unhappy because
 because  now Prince Napraxine is dead,
you fancy that she would have been his wife
if you had not been here ! '

Silence ! ' said Yseulte, with imperative
command. Her face grew scarlet under the
inquisitive, searching gaze of the child. She
suffered an intolerable humiliation beneath that
impertinent and unerring examination which

darted straight into her carefully-treasured
secret, and dragged it out into the light of
day.

Ah ! ' said Blanchette, with what was, for
her, almost regret and almost sympathy, ' ah,
I was sure of it ! I have always been sorry
that I said anything to you that day. But why
do sou care ? If I were you, I should not care.
What does it matter what he wishes? Men
always wish for what they cannot get ; I have
heard that said a hundred and a thousand
times. And you are his wife, and you have all
the houses, and all the jewels, and all the
horseS; and all the millions ; and as he is always
thinking of her, so people say, he will not mind
what you do. You may amuse yourself just
as you like. If I were you, I should go and
play at the tables.'

Silence ! You are insolent ; you hurt me ;
you offend me,' said Yseulte, with greater
passion than she had ever yielded to in all
her life. All the coarse consolations which the
world would have given her, repeated and
exaggerated on the worldly-wise lips of
Blanchette, seemed to her the most horrible
parody of her own sacred and intolerable woe,

SO carefully buried, as she thought, from any
human eye.

It is true,' said the child, offended and
sullen. ' Everyone knew he never loved you ;
he always loved her. Even in Paris last

year . But what does it matter . You

have got everything you can want '

But Yseulte had left her standing alone in
the golden-coloured drawing-room of S. Paramount,
with the irises and roses so gaily
broidered on the panels of plush.

Blanchette shrugged her shoulders as she
glanced round the room. ' What idiots are
these sensitives ! ' she thought, with wondering
contempt. ' What can it matter ? She has all
the millions '

The mind of the little daughter of the latter
half of the nineteenth century could go no
farther than that.

She had all the millions !

She had meant, quite sincerely, to give
sympathy and consolation, but she could not
help fashioning both in her own likeness.

Yseulte, with a feverish instinct to reach
solitude and the open air, left her tormentor
within the house, and hastily covering herself,

VOL. III. Y

passed out into the gardens of S. Pharamond,
and walked farther and faster than her physical
strength, which had not been great since the
birth of her child, was well fitted to bear. She
longed thirstily for the grey skies and the moist
air of Faiel, for the cold dusky seas of the
north-west and the dim far-stretching lands.
The light, the buoyancy, the glitter, the dry
clear atmosphere of those southern shores,
oppressed her and fevered her. If she had not
altogether lost the habit of confidence in her
husband, she would have said to him, ' I sicken
of all this drought and cloying sweetness. Let
me go where the west wind blows ; where the
northern billows roll ; where it is cold, and
dusk, and green, and full of shadows ; where
it does not mock one's pain with light and
laughter ! '

But she had lost that habit utterly : she
never spoke of anything she felt or wished ;
she accepted all the days of her life as they
came to her.

I have nothing of my own,' she thought ;
I have no right to wish for anything.'

He had made this place hers ; he always
spoke of it as hers ; it was, indeed, her own

inalienably ; but she did not feel it to be so.
It was only a part of his wide charity to her 
the charity which she had thought was love.

She walked far, she scarcely knew herself
where, taking her way mechanically through
the grounds and into the fields and orange
woods adjoining them, following the windings
of the paths which wound upward between the
great gnarled trunks of olives and beneath
their hoary branches. As she ascended under
the forest of olives, which was part of the
lands of S. Pharamond, she could see below
her a broad hunting road, cut in old times by
the Maison de Savoie, neglected by the Commune,
but kept in preservation by Othmar
himself. She heard a sound of horses' hoofs,
and instinctively looked down ; between the
network of ove boughs she saw a low carriage,
drawn by three black ponies abreast, and
harnessed in the Eussian manner, their abundant
manes streaming on the wind as they dashed
headlong down the steep incline. They were
followed by two outriders in Series of deep
mourning.

The woman who drove them looked upward,
and made a slight salutation with a smile.

It was Nadine Napraxine.

In another instant the turn of the road hid
them from sight, and the beat of the galloping
hoofs was lost in the sound of a little torrent
which fell down through the red bare rocks
above, and fed with its moisture the beds of
violets beneath the oves.

CHAPTEE LI.

That night there was a concert at Milloo. It
was the fifth week of Lent : nothing was possible
but a musical party. There were famous
musicians and equally famous singers ; the
gardens were illumined, and the whole arrangements
had that charm and novelty which
Madame de Vannes knew so well how to give
to all she did. But the evening was chiefly
noticeable for the first appearance in the world,
since her husband's death, of the Princess
Napraxine. She came late, as she always
came everywhere ; she still wore black ; there
was no relief to it anywhere, except that given
by the dazzling whiteness of her great pearls
and of her beautiful skin. The contour of
her throat and bosom, the exceeding beauty of
her arms, had never been seen in such marked
perfection as in that contrast with the sombre
robe she wore, sleeveless, and fastened on each
shoulder only with a clasp of pearls. One

unanimous chorus of admiration ran from
mouth to mouth as she entered.

The tragedy of her husband's death had left
no trace on her. Her smile had its old ironical
insouciance, her lips their ricci warm rose-colour,
her eyes their lustrous languor; abstinence
from all the fatigues of society, and the
fresh air of the country life in which she had
passed the tedious months of her seclusion,
had given her all the vivifying forces of health
without destroying that look of fragility and
languor which were her most potent charms.

'Poor Napraxine !' thought Melville as he
looked at her ; but he was the only one there
who remembered the dead man.

Neither Othmar nor his wife was present
there that night.

Both feared, with a fear which lay mute at
the heart of each, to see again for the first
time before the eyes of the world the woman
whose memory ruled his life.

CHAPTEE LII.

When" Nadine Napraxine returned home that
night she found a letter lying on the table, of
whose superscription she recognised the writing.

So soon ! ' she thought, with her little
smile, which had always been so calm and so
amused before the madness of men.

But when she had read it, it seemed like
a living, burning, palpitating thug, so did its
words throb and thrill with ardour, reproach,
and pain. All the suffering and passion pent up
in his soul for twelve long months had broken
loose and were uttered m it.

He had written in the silence of the dawn,
when all the world was quiet as the grave, and
the loud beating of his heart was audible to his
own ear as he realised that near him, beyond
those few miles of feathery foliage and flower-scented
fields, there lay sleeping the one woman
he adored. The impulse to write so to her
had been stronger than himself, and all wisdom,

manhood, and pride spoke to him in vain. To
her alone had he ever laid bare his heart ; to
her alone was he not ashamed to uncover all
its weakness, all its rebellion, all its futile and
feverish pain. Let her laugh if she would, he
thought, but let her know ail he suffered
through her. For a year he had kept silent ;
chained down by the bonds of duty and of
custom. For a year he had lived out his
dreary days as best he might, bearing his
burden mutely, and striving to do his best ;
but at the knowledge that she was near him,
there in the pale, cool air of the daybreak, all
his efforts at self-command were shattered as
silk threads break in a nervous hand.

No one had ever written to her as he wrote
now.

She read the letter, with the rosy light of
the morning coming in through her half-closed
shutters ; and the words of it banished the
sleep which hung like vapour about her
languid eyes and her dreamy thoughts. The
smile went away from her lips. The force of
another human heart smote for once an echo
from hers.

What madness ! ' she murmured.

But it was a madness which seemed noble
to her, beautiful in its folly, and even in its
torture ; she felt a strange emotion as she read
and re-read the only message which he had sent
to her in the whole months of a year. She sat
lost in thought ; hesitation was rare with her,
but now she hesitated. With a word she could
banish him for ever from her life. With a
word she could call him for ever to her side.
His face seemed to rise before her as she looked
at the signature of his name ; his voice seemed
in her ear pleading, imperious, tender, as she
had heard it a hundred times. A year had
been lost ; a year had passed and dropped in
the past, and they had never looked upon each
other's faces. A certain emotion which she had
never known stirred in her,  the weakness of a
sudden yearning, of a sudden wistful desire.

Is this love too ? ' she thought, with that
ironical doubt of herself with which she had so
often doubted others.

I have never cared,' she thought, with
scorn for the impulses which had moved her.
But she cared now. The silence and the
absence of those long months had been his
friends. In her meditations she had confessed

to herself that he had not been to her the mere
poor slave and spaniel that other men had
been ; she had thought to herself more than
once with a wonder at her own regret : ' If
he had only had patience ! If he had only-waited
! '

She read the letter he had Written twice
again. Then she burned it. She did not need
to keep it. Each word of it was written on
her memory. When the day was warm with
the light of the forenoon's sunshine she went
out into the air. She felt the need of movement,
of space, of a fresh atmosphere. For
the first time in her life a certain excitation had
taken the place of her tranquil serenity. A
certain restlessness had disturbed her indifference
; she had the sense of having descended
to some too great concession, of having let
herself fall from her serene heights of power
to some human feebleness and frailty.

If this be love ? ' she mused again with
doubt and disdain, casting on the awakening
warmth of her own feelings that ice of scepticism
with which she had so often frozen the
hearts of others. ' If I were only quite sure
of what I feel,' she thought, with that egoism

which was so natural to her that it was part of
her every impulse and of her every motive.

Life had a certain loveliness for her in
her perfect liberty, though she still doubted
whether its monotony would not mar even
that. The sense of her entire freedom was
still welcome to her, and the world awaited
her as a courtier, hat in hand, awaits his queen.
All its pleasures,  such as they were, she
knew them all, and held them in slight esteem,
would be hers. She had youth, beauty, and
wit, and, when the first two of these should
have left her, would still have that power of
great riches which, as a wise man has said, is
the only one to which the modern world will
bow. And yet a vague melancholy was upon
her ; that melancholy, like a light mist on a
smiling landscape, which she had once said
might have made her such a poet as Maikoff
had she lived for ever in the solitude of the
steppes.

She went out into the balmy air, clear asa
crystal, and filled with the scent of blossoming
orange-boughs. She stood awhile on the
marble terrace anil looked seaward. The
memories of the dead men who so late had

been living there beside her passed over her in
the warmth and light of the morning with a
chill, as the north wind will sweep through the
sunshine and scatter the clusters of orange-buds.
Of them all, it was of her husband that
she thought with the nearest likeness to self-reproach
which her nature made possible.

He was brave, he was as trustful as a dog,
he was hon enfant she mused, ' and I do not
think I ever said to him a single kind word
before that last day  and then it was only-said
to deceive him ! '

She remembered him as he had spoken to
her on that day. He had had a certain
dignity, the dignity of manliness, of simplicity,
of truthfulness ; and all that was left of him
was lying, mere dry dust and bones, in his emblazoned
coffin in the gilded gloom of the
church at ZaraizofF.

'Well  the dead are dead, and we shall
soon be with them,' she thought With a sigh, as
she turned from the sea wall of the terrace
and looked at the picturesque and irregular
front of the house, covered with its gay garlands
of creeping plants.

The place was hers, bought for her by

Napraxine, as one may buy a bonbon-box fora
child. It seemed that day to laugh with light
and colour. Coming hither as she did from the
endless night of a Eussian winter, it seemed
bathed in heat, and luminance, and flowers.
She descended the steps to where her ponies
waited, and went with them along the climbing
roads into the hills above La Jacquemerille.

The day was still young. The bare mountain
sides wore the hues of the jacinth and
amethyst ; the odours of sweet herbs and spring
flowers were strong and sweet ; far down below,
unseen, the sea was sparkling, lending the
sense of its presence and its freedom to all the
gorges and hillsides above. Her swift-footed
ponies bore her fleetly as the Hours bore Aurora
through the roseate and golden radiance of the
April morning.

With intention she guided them up the
steep roads which led to the humble church
of S. Pharamond, hidden beneath its great
gnarled olive trees, and covered with its network
of rose-boughs. She knew that Yseulte
went there often in the forenoon, and the
caprice moved her to see if lie could meet,
as if by chance, this poor chill, whose fate lay

m the hollow of her hand, like a bird taken
from a trap to be strangled with a touch at
pleasure of its keeper. The sense of such
power was always sweet to her ; although
so familiar, its familiarity did not detract from
its pleasure. It was the sole thing which
did not by repetition grow monotonous. Her
life had been short by years, but it had been
full of such dominion. She had dealt with
men and women as she chose, and to make or
mar then' destinies had always been the sole
pastime of which she did not weary. Humanity
was her box of puppets, as it is that of the
Solitary of Yarzin. To hold the strings of fate,
to bind and loose the threads of circumstance,
and weave the warp and woof of destiny, was
the only science which had ever had charm
over her changeful temperament and her sceptical
intelligence. Beside it all other things
were trivial and tame. She had never met
anyone who had resisted her will ; Othmar
himself had done so for awhile, but he had
lived to repent and to succumb.

The church of S. Pharamond was empty
and silent ; there was no office said that day ;
it was grey and still and mournful, and no

living thing was in it save a swallow perched
upon the altar rail. She pursued the steep
hillside road, overhung with olive and fig trees,
the wayside carpeted with gladiolus and the
blue fleur-deluge. Below, through the light
green foam of spring foliage and the sombre
masses of pine and ilex woods, there rose the
towers and pinnacles of the chateau, rising
slim and fantastic, against the azure of the sky.
Around her the silence was unbroken, except
by a tethered goat cropping euphorbia and ivy
from a ruined wall.

Looking through the boughs of the olives,
she saw afar off the figure of Yseulte. Where
she was standing was on the land of Nicolee
Sandroz, the furrows, thick with flowers, combing
the hill slope, the orchard of lemon and
olive hiding the low white walls of the house.
She alighted, and left her little horses standing
by a stone well made in the old wall where
the goat was tethered. She wished to seethe
wife of Othmar, and she moved straight
towards her where she sat beneath one of
the gigantic olives, whose foliage spread in a
misty cloud silvery and sea-green above her.
She had uncovered her head in the deep

shadow around her ; her attitude was listless,
spiritless, dejected ; in the shade thrown from
the olive boughs her face looked very colourless,
worn, and thin. All her look of childhood
had passed away, and almost all her
youth as well. As she recognised her rival
she trembled violently and rose to her feet,
losing for the moment all self-control and presence
of mind. Her large brown eyes dilated
with fear, like a deer's when it is hard pressed
in the chase. She had scarcely self-command
to make the common gesture of salutation.

Racine Napraxine, smiling, approached her
and looked at her with that critical and
penetrating glance which, through its languor,
could read all the secrets of the soul. She
spoke the bland commonplaces of compliment
and courtesy with her sweetest manner, her
most gracious grace ; and the girl, paralysed
once again, as a hundred times before, murmured
a stupid sentence or so, coloured, grew
pale, hesitated, felt herself awkward, foolish,
and constrained, and could not keep down the
tremor which shook her from head to foot, thus
suddenly confronted with the woman whom
her husband loved. All the terror which she

had felt in Paris returned to her with tenfold
more suffering, tenfold more intensity. In the
morning light, standing amongst the simple
wild herbs and flowers, her foe had the same
magical power of magnetism over her as she
had had in the limited drawing-rooms and
theatres of Paris. She understood why she
herself was nothing in her husband's life, and
this other was all.

With simple gracious words, as she might
have spoken to a timid child, her enemy continued
to address her, passing over her constraint
and silence as though she perceived
them not, and all the while that the smooth,
careless phrases rose so easily on her lips she
studied the changing colour and the frightened
eyes of Yseulte with that amused and merciless
analysis which was so common to her.
She understood how all the whole being of
her victim shrank from her as a bird shrinks from
the gaze of a snake, yet how her courage and
her pride strove with her emotion and vainly
tried to hide her fear.

Oh, foolish, foolish child ! ' she thought,
from the height of her own assured strength,
her own irresistible power. 'If you mistrust

VOL. III. z

yourself, you lie at the mercy of all your foes.
Do you not know that the first necessity for all
success is to believe in our own power to attain
it ? Feature has given you personal loveliness,
but the gift is of no more use to you
than a score of music in the hands of an
ignorant who cannot read it, than a sculptor's
chisel in the fingers of a child. You love
Othmar, and sou weeps for him ; and you know
how to do nothing more. Do you suppose that
women govern men with tears ? Do you suppose
that their desires wake because a woman
prays ? '

There was derision, but there was a not
unkind pity in her, as her eyes studied the face
in which, despite its youth and delicacy and
charm, Othmar could see no beauty.

Your child died ? ' she said suddenly, as
she sat there beside her unwilling and trembling
captive. Yseulte bent her head ; she
could not trust her voice to answer.

Did you care so much ? ' said Nadine
Napraxine in wonder.

I wished that it had been myself.'

The words escaped her almost unawares.
Wlien they had been uttered she longed to

recall them. They would sound, she knew,
like a confession of sorrow to the ear of one
to whom all the sorrow of her life was due.

Are you not happy, then, my dear ? ' said
Nadine ISTapraxine : her tone was grave and
soft, and had for once no mockery or innuendo
in it.

Yseulte grew paler even than she had been
before ; a frown of anger knitted her fair
brow ; her expression grew cold and hard.

I think you have no right to ask me that,'
she said, gathering with effort courage enough
to oppose her dreaded foe. 'I think you have
no right. You are my husband's friend, not
mine.'

Nadine Napraxine smiled.

'The frightened doe has its own bravery
when roused,' she mused ; and aloud she only
said, with all the sweet suave courtesy of her
very gentlest manner ;

His friend and yours. Surely that is the
same thing? Or if it be not, you should be
wise and make it so.'

She paused a moment, then added softly
still :

'Happiness only comes to the wise, my

z 2

dear ; it does not come to those who stake their
all upon one cast like the mad gamblers in the
salle de jeu behind those hills. But you are
too young to understand ; and if I spoke to
you all day I should not teach you my philosophies.'


I do not wish to learn them.'

She spoke almost sullenly, almost rudely,
as the natural courage of her temper asserted
itself and strove to struggle against the paralysis
of mesmerised fear in which the presence of
her rival held her.

They have been useful,' said Nadine Na-praise
with a chillier intonation. ' And for
want of them, wdiat have women  dio can
only love  made of their lives, and of their
lovers? But since you will not allow that I
am your friend, I will leave you to your sylvan
solitudes. Adieu, my dear. It is not in the
woods and hills that you will learn to recover
that secret de bonheur which you have lost so
early.'

She lingered a moment, looking at Yseulte
with her meditative, languid, revealing gaze.
The girl's lips trembled, her throat swelled, her
eyes filled with scorching tears ; she turned

abruptly away lest lier self-control should altogether
fail her. She knew that she had betrayed
herself as utterly to her enemy's eyes as
though she had poured out in words all the
piteous secrets of her aching heart. Nadine
Napraxine passed slowly beneath the olive
branches, brushing the humble flowers with
her careless sovereign's step.

She is foolish, she is simple, she is awkward,
and she is most unwise,' she thought.
But she is brave '

It was the quality which she always
honoured.

CHAPTEE LIII.

When she returned home, she shut herself
in her own rooms, and was not seen, even by
her women, for three hours. She lay almost
immovable upon a couch, whilst the sunshine
came tempered and rose-hued through the
lowered awnings of her windows, and the air
around her was filled with the scent of hundreds
of cut roses placed in all the jars and bowls and
vases in her sight. For the first time in her
life a doubt which came from pity, and a
hesitation which came from conscience, were
at war with all her habits, instincts, and
vanities. Underneath her egoism, and her
cruelty, and her many ironies, there had always
been latent a disdainful honour. Once having
given it, she would have kept her word to the
meanest creature ; she would have taken no
advantage of the weakest enemy, if to do so
had been an injustice. She was capricious in
every act of her life, but her caprices had no

meanness in them ; she was supremely merciless,
because she was supremely indifferent, but
she was capable of perfect loyalty in her own
fashion. Far down in the depths of her complex
nature there was, beneath all the coldness,
malice and selfishness of disposition and of
custom, a vague instinct of chivalrous generosity.
If ever that chord in her were touched it always
responded. When she had been a child, reading
the old chronicles in her father's library,
her favourite of history had always been John
of France, for sake of that voluntary return
to his captivity in England.

She comprehended the delirious impulse on
which Othmar, hearing that she was near him
after twelve months of absence, had been unable
to control the emotion which mastered him,
and had, in an hour of irresponsible passion,
laid his soul bare before her, in all its weakness,
and offered to load it with any weight
she chose, so that only he could be once more
admitted to her presence. And she knew,
even more surely than he did, because she
was calmer than he was, all which hung upon
her own decision. She knew that, once entering
there, he would be then and for ever hers ;

never more his wife's. She was too clear of
sight to cheat herself with self-delusions.
Othmar would be faithful to her, and false to
all else all his life through, if once she wrote
to him the simple word he asked for : ' Come.'
She knew that he had played with fire unharmed,
only because she herself had been cold
as ice ; but now her coldness seemed suddenly
to melt within her, and her heart to go out to
him in sweet and sudden yearning.

If he came there he woidd come as her
lover.

To all her newly awakening tenderness, and
to all her habitual instincts of supremacy, the
temptation was strong. For once in her life
she realised something of the force of that
irresistible and enervating impulse which heretofore
had always seemed to her a mere
frenzy of ungoverned senses, of disordered
dreams. For once her life seemed incomplete
if lived on without his.

Her irony and raillery could not aid her
against herself; she was absorbed in, and invaded
by a tide of new and warm emotion ;
the words which he had written to her seemed
burned into her mind  seemed to fill the rose-scented

air, and become audible, as though this
voice were pleading to her.

If this be love? ' she thought again, with
astonished impatience, with a sense of servitude
and weakness.

Twice she rose to write the one word he
asked ; and twice she put the pen aside Vvth it
unwritten.

Such vacillation was new to her, and hateful
as a sign of feebleness. Her caprices had been
as changeful as the winds of April, but beneath
them her will had been always firm as a rod of
steel, centred ever on her own whim and pleasure.
Now she was irresolute, and scarce knew
what she wished, or what she chose.

She who had the blood in her of lascivious
empresses, and of fierce murderers of men, was
swayed by two unfamiliar and divided things 
by conscience, and compassion. The tide of
freshly-roused emotions, which would have
swept her onward to the gratification of them
without thought or pause, was checked by a
sentiment as rare  the sentiment of mercy.
Once, one of her people, in the dark days of
Catalina Narischkine's rule, being of those who
slew in the name of the idiot, Ivan, had

slaughtered the Narisclikine right and left, Dot
pausing for age or youth, or sex, but, coming
to the place where a young child of the hated
race lay sleeping, had dropped his blood-red
sword in shame, as before some holy image,
faltered, and turned away ; the child had slept
on unharmed. Such hesitation as that was
with her now, born out of the very faults of
her nature, out of her disdain, of her hauteur,
of her superb self-love.

She was conscious of a desire to be in the
presence of Othmar, to hear his voice, to see
his face again ; a desire enervating, vague, full
of a dangerous languor, and a dangerous
warmth ; beyond that, stimulating and sustaining
it, were the instincts of empire, of dominion,
of a capricious and ever victorious volition.
Never in all her life had she resisted an
impulse of self-indulgence, had she hesitated
before any sacrifice of others. Absence had
increased the shadowy attraction which had
always drawn her towards this one amongst
her many lovers ; in the long silent months of
her solitude his memory had grown dearer and
more welcome with each day. And he washers,
if she chose.

At her command all honour, duty and allegiance
would be mere empty words on his
ear, without power to hold him, or meaning to
move him. Dignity, self-respect, and loyalty
to his self chosen vows would become no more
to him than threads of silk upon the neck of a
courser broke loose. She had only to let him
enter there, and the world would hold nothing
for him but herself.

And for once she might perchance be able
to share that oblivion, to comprehend that
ecstasy ; and yet she hesitated, because a new
faint sense of pity and of compassion had come
upon her.

After all,' she thought, ' I should probably
care such a little while, and she, poor child,
it is all her life ! '

A disdainful compassion forbade her to
strike down so weak a foe. Opposition or
conflict would have intensified all her imperious
resolve, and heightened the zest of her power
of destruction ; but the helplessness, the feebleness
of her rival disarmed her. It would belike
striking a nesting-bird, a wounded kid.

Nadine Napraxine thought of her with a
sensation of pity and the stronger sensation of

disdain which was inevitable to her character.
A creature who could not conquer, could not
resist, could not keep hold upon her own,
seemed a thing so foolish and so feeble to her !
Even in her solitude, her imperial supremacy-made
her lips smile contemptuously, her eyes
gleam with scorn, as she rose and paced her
chamber for a few moments, her head erect
and her bosom risen high with her proud
thoughts.

All the superb courage and scorn which
were much stronger in her than any other
emotion, rejected so easy a victory, so sure a
triumph.

She is so impotent, poor little fool ! ' she
murmured. ' She will break her heart for ever
in vain ; she will never touch his.'

Her rooms were filled with the sweet faint
smell of the roses, and heated to the heat of a
midsummer noon. She sat still in the dreamy
warmth, and all her vague regrets oppressed
her with a faint, heavy sense of inclinations
suppressed, and impulses awaking after long
torpor.

I should not hesitate at a crime,' she
thought, ' but this would be almost a baseness.'

And her memory went once more back to
the hour in which the dead body of Napraxine
had been before her sight, the tea-rose held
close in his stiffened hand, and darkly red with
the blood of his lungs.

If he were living '  she thought.

If he had been living, he could have
avenged Yseulte and himself.

But he was dead, a thing of bones and
ashes  powerless, senseless, defenceless. Something
in that dishonour which would be done
to a dead man and to a helpless child seemed
to her courage cowardice, to her generosity
meanness, to her dignity unworthiness.

Neither could ever hurt us,' she thought,
neither could ever avenge it on us.'

Her sense of the utter impotency of those
two, dien she remembered it, disarmed her
where opposition or the struggle of forces equal
to her own would have made her obstinate and
pitiless. They were so helpless ! the girl, in
her pathetic, ignorant, unloved humiliation and
ineptitude ; the man, dead in his strength, who
had left only a memory behind him. It would
be as easy to sweep the one out of lier path as
to forget and deride the other ; so easy that it

seemed not worth the while ; so easy that it
seemed almost base.

She would have used her blade of steel
without mercy to cleave through bone and flesh
of any who should have ventured to oppose
her ; but to cut down a garden lily already
dying of drought, to strike a pale shadow from
the tomb  it seemed poor, unworthy.

Othmar was hers if she would.

Had there been any doubt of it, her nature
would have urged her on in unsparing resolution
until he should have yielded. But he washers
when she chose, body and soul, peace and
honour, present and future. Her perfect sense
of empire and security of dominion left her
serene and gentle ; she could listen to the voice
of pity, the impulse of what men, in their
stupidity, called conscience. It was with the
disdainful generosity with which the Great
Katherine might have loosed one of her lovers
from the chains which bound him to her
throne, that she renounced her power to take
him from his wife.

If it were only a crime,' she thought, in
the mystical complex subtleties and intricacies
of her brain, ' if it were only a crime, the

darkness would heighten the dawn, the danger
would sweeten the pleasure, the courage of it
would strengthen the self-indulgence ; but
when it is mean, when one is sure that there is
no one living who can avenge it, only a poor
meek fool who will weep ! '

The laws of so-called duty said nothing to
her.

The morality of the world was in her sight
a mere mass of affectation, hypocrisies, and
timorous shifts.

To her sated and ever-curious intelligence
a crime might have had some potent charm,
because it would have possessed some novelty
and proffered some strange experience.

But a meanness revolted her with the same
sense of disgust as would have moved her
before squalor or disease. The same impulse
which moves the white-plumaged bird to keep
aloof from dust or mud, moved her to recoil
from what was base or was ungenerous.

She rose and approached one of the windows,
and pushed the rose-coloured blind aside,
and looked out over the wide white marble
terrace and the blue silent sea beyond.

It was three in the afternoon.

He had waited ten hours for her answer.

She left the casement and sat down and
wrote. She wrote rapidly, as her wont was ;
and when she had written, folded and sealed
her letter rapidly, giving it no second glance
or afterthought. Then she rang, and bade her
women send her the African boy Mahmoud.
When he obeyed her summons, she gave him
a letter.

Take that to the chateau of S. Paramount,'
she said to him. ' You know Count
Othmar. Wait until you can see him alone,
and give it, when he is alone, into his own
hands. You understand me.'

Mahmoud prostrated himself, put the letter
in his vest, stretched himself again on the
ground in obeisance, then silently left her
presence.

She had always found the child obedient
and intelligent, the only person in all her
household who would obey implicitly and in
silence, without feeling any curiosity as to the
purport of his errands or ever babbling of
them in the servants' hall.

When he had left her she remained long
motionless, lost in thought, sitting alone amidst

the dying roses, and the sunbeams broken and
dimmed by the deep shadows from the veiled
windows. She had a strange desolate sense of
having given up the only thing which could
have made life worth the living.

But I think in what I wrote there was no
suggestion of regret,' she mused, recalling all
her written words.  I think not ; I hope not.
If he believed that there were any regret on my
side, it would be of no avail to have written it.
He would be here in an hour, and he would
follow me all the world over.'

Then she summoned her women again :
I go back to Eussia to-night to Zaraizoff,'
she said to them. ' Tell Paul to have everything
done that is necessary.'

VOL. III. A A

CHAPTER LIV.

The boy Mahmoud, with the letter in his vest,
took his way by the inland paths towards
S. Pharamond ; it was not more than three
miles, following the tracks the peasants used.
Mahmoud was almost always dumb, but he
was ceaselessly watchful ; he adored his mistress,
but he was morbidly jealous of her. In
the gay households of La Jacquemerille, of
Zaraizoff, of the Hotel Napraxine, his precocity
had become familiar with all the corruptions
of the world of white faces. Speaking
little he was supposed to understand as little ;
but, in truth, the small listening dusky boy
understood every word which went past him.
He had heard them in Paris speak of Othmar ;
he had comprehended that Othmar was the
lover of his mistress ; he had heard Paul say
to his friends, ' If it have ever been anyone, it
is that one.' He had understood, and he had

taken a hatred of Othmar into his silent,
savage, volcanic child's heart.

When Mahmoud had been very ill with
the cruel north winds which blcAv so bitterly
on his lungs, made only to breathe the torrid
air of the Soudan, his lady had come to see
him, had spoken sweet words to him in his
own tongue, had touched his dusky paw
with her soft snowy hand. Mahmoud would
have died a Indeed deaths for her if he had
had the chance ; but he was jealous, like a
little black sulking dachshund, of the mistress
who sheltered him. Whenever he walked
Behind her, bearing her shawls or her sunshade,
he could have kissed her shadow as
it fell, but he could have plunged his dagger
into the throats of the great gentlemen who
sauntered by her side. He was furiously,
blindly jealous, with the jealousy of a child
and of a little wild beast blent in one. To his
naturally evil passions the life of Paris had
united a monkeys malice and a precocious
comprehension of vice. As he went now under
the red blossoms of the pepper trees and the
yellow flowers of the mimosas which fringed
the route, a devilish fancy came into his head.

A A 2

If, instead of giving the letter which he
bore to Othmar, he took it to Othmar's wife ?
His faculties had been educated enough in all
the scandals and jests of Paris to surmise that
so he might bring about with impunity a complication
not easy to unravel, a storm not easy
to allay. If his mistake were ever brought
against him, it would seem only a mistake ;
he would take refuge behind his stolid childish
mask of affected stupidity, which had served
him well more than once. He had the cunning
of the African, and he knew that the first
condition for his own safety in effecting such
a treason would be that no one should observe
him on his errand. He entered the grounds
of the chateau cautiously. The gates usually
stood open in the daytime, and the boy's
gaily-clad figure glided in amongst the shrubs
unperceived.

It was about five o'clock in the afternoon.
Yseulte was seated out of doors, in a part of
the gardens which was not in sight of the
house. There was a large Judas tree there
covered with its crimson blossoms ; beneath it
were some rustic chairs. She was reading, or
affecting to read ; the book was open on her

lap. The crimson flowers every now and then,
shaken by a south wind, fell down upon the
unturned page.

Mahmoud had crept noiselessly about
amongst the trees and plants, until he saw
her, \\A\h that feline skill and silence which
were natural to him, and had been developed
by his life in the households of the Napraxines.
He knew her well by sight: he had seen her
constantly in Paris. He knew nothing of her
otherwise, but he was French enough by
education to be sure that for her to receive
and read a letter addressed to her husband
would bring about some dire disturbance.

So he approached her, bowing low as he
had been taught to do, and tendered the letter
to her.

From Madame la Princesse Napraxine,' he
said, repeating his salaam.

Yseulte took the letter with a strange
tumult at her heart : she did not look at the
superscription ; she broke open the envelope
with agitation and haste. It might be only a
conventional sentence or two, an invitation ora
farewell, or it might be some message of
greater meaning. It seemed strange to her that

Nadine Napraxine should address even the
most formal ivords to her. She sat down
under the boughs of the roseate Judas tree
and read what was written, read it all with that
instantaneous comprehension which comes to
the brain in moments of intense excitement.

There were but a few sentences in all in it,
but those had been written to Othman not to
herself :

I have read your letter. I believe all
that is said in it. I doubt most things, but I
have never doubted your love for me. If
there be any consolation to you in knowing
this, you may believe it to the full. I am certain
that you would do all you say if I would
accept the gift of your life. But I will not ; for
it is not yours to give, and I do not rob the
innocent. My dear Othmar, I have seen your
wife a few hours ago ; I sought her, she did
not seek me ; and from my soul I pity her,
though I am not too easily moved to pity. I
pity her because she loves you so greatly, and
yet in your life she counts for nothing. She
would die for you, yet she will never be able
to quicken a single beat of your pulse. The

fault is not hers  you admitted that the last
evening I spoke to you in Paris  but she only
irritates when she would please you, she only
wearies you when she should stimulate you.
You will never care for her ; she is a young
angel, yet she will go unloved by you all her
life. But if you cannot do more, you can
spare her some pain, some dishonour ; and I
desire you to spare her that. Yours is the
fault that she is now beside you ; you were in
haste and blind, and adventured a rash experiment
; but it would be ungenerous in us both
if we made her pay all the penalty of my indifference
and your error. You have a strange
madness for me because I am far removed from
you ; but I  who am not mad  I can see that
honour says to you, and generosity says to me
the same thing. I do not use the stale word
duty, because neither you nor I believe much
in it ; but honour and generosity call upon us
to protect a child who cannot protect herself,
and perhaps even a little also to remember
a dead man who cannot avenge himself. I
do not speak to you as moralists would speak ;
I only mean that you must remember those
obligations which, as they were taken up unasked,

must be fulfilled out of sheer sense of
common honour. You cannot force yourself
to care for her, but you can force yourself to
conceal from her that you do not. She is one
of those women who easily and willingly believe.
For myself, I would sooner hesitate to
dishonour a dead man than a living one ; so, I
think, would you, if you only pause and think
of it. If I listened to you now when I have
repulsed you before, it would always seem tome
as if I had not been brave enough whilst
he was living, whilst he could have killed me
or you, or done anything he chose. This is
mere sentimental superstition, no doubt, but
so it is with me. We will not meet again,
not yet, at least. You will not be happy, of
course, nor will you love your wife ; neither
happiness nor love is to be had at command.
But you are just by nature ; be just now ; do
not let all the weight of a mistake, which was
wholly of your own seeking and making, lie
upon a creature altogether innocent. She is
not wise as we are wise, but she has a beautiful
nature ; she is purity itself ; be grateful. I
do not say forget me, for that you will not do ;
but live so' that I may admire you and not

esteem you a coward. We have both always
lived for ourselves, let us endeavour for a
change to live a little for others.'

The letter was signed in full ' Nadege
Fedorowna Princess Napraxine.'

Yseulte had read it once unconsciously, all
its words seeming to smite her brain together
like the blows of many hands upon an unresisting
creature. She read it once again consciously,
deliberately, word for word ; then she
rose and put it out towards the bearer of it.

It is not mine,' she said, in a suffocated
voice. ' Take it to Count Othmar.'

But the African boy had disappeared.
There was no sound near her except the sound
of the sea breaking on the marble steps of the
landing stairs far down below.

Take it, take it ! ' she said, mechanically
holding the letter out to the empty air. Then
she staggered a little ; her eyes grew blind ;
she groped with her hand to feel for the trunk
of the tree, and crept to it and sank down on
the bench beneath it, insensible.

How long she remained there she never
knew. Gardeners were near, trimming the

banksia roses of a covered arcade, and below,
on the edge of the sea, there were boatmen and
fishermen, and not fifty metres away, in the
house, in his library, Othmar was sitting, awaiting
the reply to his letter. But no one knew
what had befallen her. After awhile she was.
awakened by the touch of a sea breeze which
rising rustled in the boughs and fanned her
face.

When she was aroused and raised herself
from her stupor, she saw the note lying before
her on the ground.

CHAPTER LV.

She remembered all that it had said. She saw
as though it were written in letters of fire the
fact that her husband would leave her for ever
if another would stoop to accept the gift of his
life. She saw the terrible, inexorable humiliation
of the truth that she would only owe his
fidelity, his presence, and his endurance of her
in the future, to the forbearance of Racine
Napraxine.

There was no place left in her mind for
reason or hope to hide in ; it was all a blank
desolation.

The pride, which was the strongest instinct
in her, and the gratitude which was the
strongest motive, were all that were left alive
in the dull stupor which had overspread her
brain. The one told her that every hour
which Othmar spent beside her would be but
as an alms cast to her by her rival ; the other
told her that her existence was the sole barrier

between the man to whom she owed obedience,
love, and fealty, and the joys which he coveted,
the fate which he desired. Not alone was she
herself as nothing in his life ; bnt she was his
gaoler, his burden of burdens, his one unchangeable
regret and calamity. He had sought her
out of mercy, generosity, kindness ; and now
she was for ever in his path of life like a black
shadow which hid the sunshine from his house.
She had known this, or most of this, for
many months, but its cruel indignity, its dreadful
truth, had never looked to her all that it looked
now as she realised that pity for her unloved
loneliness which made her rival relinquish her
howl on her husband's life and refuse to accept
the dishonoured allegiance which he offered.
She saw in those few words, which had been
written for Othmar's eyes alone, the finer impulses
of generosity, the higher instincts of
compassion, which had impelled Nadine Na-praise
to remember her and to spare her
when her husband had been willing to sacrifice
her as the forest doe was sacrificed of old upon
the altars of love. She did not blame him or
hate him ; she loved him always with the same
loyalty, the same grateful, mute, and timid

devotion. But all her life revolted in her at the
thought that she would owe his enforced constancy
to the intercession of the woman he
adored ; that she herself was nothing more,
would for ever be nothing more, than as the
clog of wood upon the captive's foot, keeping
his steps for ever in one cheerless path. She
did not reason ; a stupor of horror had fallen
upon her ; she was only conscious of this one
fact, that whilst she lived Othmar would suffer.
Inherent in her nature was the heroism of
a race which had never feared death or danger,
and the pride, sensitive as a nerve laid bare,
which made pity intolerable, charity insult, life
without self-respect unendurable. A delirium
of shame was upon her. There was only alive
in her one consciousness  that she would never
consent to live to be a torture to him, never
endure to be outstripped in generosity and in
renunciation by the enemy of her life. She had
loved him with all the tenderness and loyalty
of her nature ; she had done all she could to
pay him back in gratitude and affection the immeasurable
gifts she owed to him ; but she had
long known that she had failed, that she had
no power to console or to beguile him. She

was only a weariness to him, a chain upon his
liberties, a companion undesired and irremovable,
a thing useless and joyless, which,
being lost, would be never missed and never
regretted.

Nay, the gates of life closing for ever on
herself would let the light of the future stream
in, white and fair, across his path.

Her mind was dulled and her whole being
strung to unnatural excitation ; the many
months in which she had shut her unuttered
sorrow in silence in her own breast had in a
manner disturbed the balance of her mind.
That solitude in thought and absence of sustaining
sympathy, which may be as bracing as the
north wind to older or sterner lives, had to her
youthfulness and timid susceptibility been fatal
as the north wind is to the shyly-flowering
spring. She had lost all hold on proportion
in her lonely grief ; she had become morbidly
self-absorbed, and grew in her own sight a
useless and undesired burden. All which remained
distinct to her were her pride, which
revolted from acceptation of her rival's intercession
in her favour, and the piteous sense
that no devotion, no sacrifice, no effort on her

part could ever make her more in her husband's
existence than a weight, a weariness, a
thing undesired and unloved. The unselfishness
and the loftiness of her instincts now
served her worse than any fault or feebleness
would have done. So long as she lived nothings
she knew, could serve him or release
him. The patience and the piety which her
confessor ceaselessly put before her as the
eternal and unfailing panacea of woe could do
nothing to give him happiness whilst lie was
there beside him ; only her vacant place, her
stiff dead limbs, her forgotten grave  these
alone could be the precursors of any joy or
liberty for him.

She did not reason thus, but she was
moved by the knowledge of it, as one groping
in the dark is guided by his touch. For the
moment that sublime insanity of self-sacrifice
was on her which has sent all the martyrs
of the world to self-sought death.

By that which she believed divine law she
knew that she was forbidden to loose the cord
of fife. To forestall the summons of God was
to her implicit faith a guilt so dark that it
Avould cast its shadow athwart all eternity.

But as her people lead flung themselves by
choice upon the pikes of the revolutionists
rather than outlive their king, so she was
willing nov to cast herself into the jaws of
death rather than outlive the loss of hope, the
loss of honour.

In her sight all his gifts, all his embraces
all the possessions with which he had dowered
her, were but so much dishonour, being only
the alms of pity and of charity, the forced
atonement of a chill indifference. To live one
other hour beneath his roof and by his side
seemed to her, in all the dim, blind stupor of
her thoughts, an indignity before which any
death were blessed. She had the silent resolution
and the endurance, meek yet dogged,
of her Breton blood ; these held her outwardly
calm and restrained, while the delirium of self-sacrifice
drove her headlong sto her fate. She
had never loved him more than she loved him
at that moment. She had clearness of memory
and strength of devotion enough to think, even
in those terrible instants, of the only ways in
which she could spare him pain. If he knew
that her death was self-sought, remorse would
be with him all his da's.

He shall not know ; he shall not know,'
she whispered to the sunny air and to the
crimson blossoms.

She stooped and tore the letter of Nadine
Napraxine into small pieces, and cast them
down amongst the shrubs. Then with slow,
unsteady steps she took the familiar paths which
led through the gardens to the hills. There
were no tears in her eyes ; a flame-like force of
self-destruction burned in her and scorched up
all natural fear. Even the frightful guilt which
her creed made her believe she was about to
take upon her soul could not appal or arrest
her. Even the human yearning in her which
impelled her to turn back once and look upon
his face and hear his voice,  if only from some
distant place, as strangers might look and
hear,  she had strength in her to resist and
repel. Seeing him, she would betray herself ;
he would suspect ; \\t death would be a
burden to him as her Hfe had been. She
wished him to be happy, never to think of her
save now and then with kindness.

Fortitude and self-denial were stronger in
her than any other thing, and hushed down
the natural revolt of aching passions.

VOL. III. B B

I will give him my life, since it is all I
have to give,' she thought : she was his debtor
for so much, but thus her debt would be paid.

She went slowly, but steadily, up the familiar
way in the glad light of the afternoon hours.
With the swift, unstudied instincts of a mind
feverish and confused, but holding fast to one
central and immovable idea, she had remembered
at once the means by which she could
reach her end and make her death seem the
result of accident ; she had remembered a
crumbling tower on the flower-farm of her
stepmother, where the owls built and the
pigeons mated, and where again and again asa
child she had been forbidden to risk life
and limb on its rotten stairway and its ancient
stones, but obstinately had sat for many an
hour, seeming close to the blue sky, looking
down on the olive and orange woods, and calling"
to the birds wheeling above her head.

One false step there  then silence. Who
would ever know ?

The sun was near its setting as she reached
the hedge of aloes marking the boundary of
S. Pharamond. She passed through them, and
crossed a field or two where the red tulips

were glowing beneath the tall wheat ; then she
reached the farm of Nicolee Sandroz. No one
was in sight : the man was away in the town
of Yillefranche, the women were at work in
the rose fields. No one saw her save the old
dog of the house, who gave her a mute welcome,
creeping out with stiffened limbs from
his niche in the wall. From the hill side on
which the house stood, the turrets and terraces
of Milloo, the towers and woods of S. Paramount,
the green oasis of their gardens and the
blue sea shining beyond, spread out before her
gaze in all the glow and glory of the sunset
hour. The golden light suffused all the visible
world in its effulgence, and the mountains
northward were violet as the cup of an
anemone flower. She looked a moment : then
closed her eyes and turned away, lest the fair
sight of the earth at evening should weaken
and unnerve her.

She entered the dwelling-place and ascended
the stairway leading to the tower, relic of an
ancient time when the low white-walled building
had been fortified and armed against the
pirates of the sea and the grievances of the
land. She climbed the broken steps of stone.

wMcli her young feet had so often trodden with
the careless hsht tread of the kid, and its
heedlessness of danger. Every now and then
a narrow slit in the masonry of the tower let
in the golden light of the world without and
let her see the smiling sunlit fields. A strong
shudder shook her at such times from head
to foot, but she did not pause until she had
reached the platform of the tower. It was
worn and broken, many fissures yawned in it, the
unused nests of birds cumbered it, the battlements
which had once protected it were almost
levelled with its floor ; the stones which remained
were lose and uneven. She paused
upon the summit, and the glory of the evening
light was all about her and upon her ; the deep
blue heavens seemed very near. Though it
was daylight still there were stars clear and
large above her head. The world lay soundless
and serene ; no echo from it reached her
through those depths of air.

Her eyes dwelt upon the place of her
home.

The circling pigeons flew around her, the
wind of their wings fanned her cheek. She
kneeled down and made the sign of the cross.

God receive my soul ! ' she murmured. ' It
is guilt  but there is no other way.'

Then she rose, and, with a step which never
paused or filtered, she walked to the edge of
the undefended roof. She looked once more
southward to where the house of Othmar lay,
once upward to the vault of azure air.

Then she stepped forward into the void
below, threw her arms outward as a bird
spreads its wings, and fell, as a stone falls
through the empty air.

A little while later the women coming
there, called by the howling of the old house-dog,
found her lying quite dead upon the turf
beneath. Death had been merciful and had
not mutilated her, her face was calm and had
not been bruised or wounded : her head had
struck upon a stone, and she had died without
any lingering pain or conscious death-throe.


The birds were flying startled and distressed
above the summit of the tower. The sun had
set.

Her last wish was fulfilled.

No one dreamed that her death had been

sought by her own will. The loosened masonry
told its tale, and no one doubted what it said.
She had accomplished that supreme sacrifice
which is content to be unguessed, unpitied,
and, attaining to the martyr's heroism, puts
aside the martyr's crown.

L'ENYOI.

In a year from that time Nadine Napraxine
sat in her white boudoir in her house in Paris.

It was the eve of her marriage with Othmar.
She was lying indolently amongst her white
cushions ; her eyes were thoughtful, her mouth
was smiling.

If one could only feel all that rapture
which he feels, how charming life would be ! '
she mused, with her old sceptical wonder at
the ardour and the follies of men.

Passion was for once acceptable to her, but it
was still scarcely shared ; she still surveyed and
analysed its forces with a vague astonishment,
a lingering derision. Love had reached her
more nearly and enveloped her more warmly
than she had ever believed that it would do ;
yet there remained beneath it the smile of her
habitual raillery, the doubt of her habitual
incredulity. Her life had obtained the fruition
of all its desires, and the future was hers in

perfect triumph, so far as any human knowledge
can possess it. Yet, in the vague melancholy
which floated like a little cloud at times
upon her careless and amused mockery of
herself, she thought more than once of the
device emblazoned on the wall of Amyot,
Nutrio et extinguo  it is the motto of all human
passions.

Yes, this is love, no doubt,' she said to
him this day ; ' it is even ecstasy  as yet. But
shall we never know the recoil ? Shall we
never tire? Will there be no reaction, no
fatigue, no level lengths of habit and of
tedium ? Who can keep always at this
height?'

We shall  for ever ! ' murmured her
lover, with the intensity of his adoration for
her trembling on his lips. ' To doubt it is to
doubt me ! '

Into,' said Nadine Napraxine, with her
fleeting mysterious smile. ' No ; I do not
doubt you at all ; I only doubt myself  and
human nature ! '

She sighed a little, even as she smiled. She,
who had divined so much more of the truth
than the blunter perceptions of a man had ever

suspected, she, . with that melancholy presage
and superstitious sadness which were dormant
in her blood, thought, with a passing chill of
dread :

Our joy is like the basil plant of Isabella.
It blossoms out of death ! '

